Studies with our screening lead 5 and the literature compound 6 led to the identification of 6-benzyloxy-3-(4-methoxy)phenyl-1,2,4-triazolo[3,4-a]phthalazine 8 as a ligand with binding selectivity for the gamma-aminobutyric acid-A (GABA-A) alpha 3- and alpha 5-containing receptor subtypes over the GABA-A alpha 1 subtype (K(i): alpha 2 = 850 nM, alpha 3 = 170 nM, alpha 5 = 72 nM, alpha 1 = 1400 nM). Early optimization studies identified the close analogue 10 (K(i): alpha 2 = 16 nM, alpha 3 = 41 nM, alpha 5 = 38 nM, alpha 1 = 280 nM) as a suitable lead for further study. High-affinity ligands were identified by replacing the 6-benzyloxy group of compound 10 with 2-pyridylmethoxy (compound 29), but binding selectivity was not enhanced (K(i): alpha 2 = 1.7 nM, alpha 3 = 0.71 nM, alpha 5 = 0.33 nM, alpha 1 = 2.7 nM). Furthermore, on evaluation in xenopus oocytes,(22) 29 was discovered to be a weak to moderate inverse agonist at all four receptor subtypes (alpha 1, -7%; alpha 2, -5%; alpha 3, -16%; alpha 5, -5%). Replacement of the 3-phenyl group of 29 with alternatives led to reduced affinity, and smaller 3-substituents led to reduced efficacy. Methyl substitution of the benzo-fused ring of 29 at the 7-, 8-, and 10-positions resulted in increased efficacy although selectivity was abolished. Increased efficacy and retention of selectivity for alpha 3 over alpha 1 was achieved with the 7,8,9,10-tetrahydro-(7,10-ethano)-phthalazine 62. Compound 62 is currently one of the most binding selective GABA-A alpha 3-benzodiazepine-site partial agonists known, and although its selectivity is limited, its good pharmacokinetic profile in the rat (33% oral bioavailability after a 3 mg/kg dose, reaching a peak plasma concentration of 179 ng/mL; half-life of 1 h) made it a useful pharmacological tool to explore the effect of a GABA-A alpha 2/alpha 3 agonist in vivo.

We compared behavioral and neural effects of cholinergic enhancement between spatial attention, spatial working memory (WM), and visual control tasks, using fMRI and the anticholinesterase physostigmine. Physostigmine speeded responses nonselectively but increased accuracy selectively for attention. Physostigmine also decreased activations to visual stimulation across all tasks within primary visual cortex, increased extrastriate occipital cortex activation selectively during maintained attention and WM encoding, and decreased parietal activation selectively during maintained attention. Finally, lateralization of occipital activation as a function of the visual hemifield toward which attention or memory was directed was decreased under physostigmine. In the case of attention, this effect correlated strongly with a decrease in a behavioral measure of selective spatial processing. Our results suggest that, while cholinergic enhancement facilitates visual attention by increasing activity in extrastriate cortex generally, it accomplishes this in a manner that reduces expectation-driven selective biasing of extrastriate cortex.
Application of somatostatin to the striatum of the anaesthetized rat has previously been shown to elicit large increases in extracellular levels of dopamine and GABA via a glutamate-dependent mechanism. These actions have been ascribed to the SSTR2 receptor. Here we describe experiments designed to investigate whether these effects occur in C57Bl6 mice and if they elicit rotational behaviours associated with increased dopamine in the striatum. Application of somatostatin resulted in increased concentrations of dopamine in striatum, hippocampus and amygdala of anaesthetized mice. Unilateral striatal infusions of the peptide by retrodialysis increased locomotion. Application of N-methyl-D-aspartate and AMPA to the freely-moving mouse striatum resulted in increased dopamine release; however, only AMPA caused increased locomotion. These results further confirm that somatostatin can play a role in the control of locomotor function by modulating striatal dopamine release.
The highest prevalence rate of spinocerebellar ataxia type 6 (SCA6) in the worldwide population is in the Chugoku and Kansai areas of Western Japan, but the reason of this geographic characteristics is unclear. We investigated the predisposing haplotypes and their geographic distribution. Genotyping of five microsatellite markers and three single nucleotide polymorphisms linked to the CACNA1A gene in 150 Japanese SCA6 patients from unrelated 118 families revealed three major haplotypes, carrying a pool of one common haplotype core. A founder chromosome was thought to have historically diverged into at least three types. One of the major haplotypes newly identified showed a strong geographical cluster around the Seto Inland Sea in the Chugoku and Kansai areas of Western Japan, whereas the others were widely distributed throughout Japan. The distribution of predisposing haplotypes contributes to the geographical differences in prevalence of SCA6.
L-beta-3,4-Dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) and quipazine, respectively dopamine/noradrenaline precursor and serotonergic (5-HT(2)) receptor agonist, were injected intraperitoneally in low-thoracic spinal mice at 7 days post-spinalization. In mice pre-treated with decarboxylase and monoamine oxydase inhibitors, L-DOPA (30-100 mg/kg) was found not to induce air-stepping. On the other hand, L-DOPA (40 mg/kg) consistently triggered locomotor-like movements if combined with low doses of quipazine (0.4-0.7 mg/kg) or if mice were placed on a motor-driven treadmill running at low speed. However, twitches, spasms, and other non-locomotor movements were also induced, especially on the treadmill. These results suggest that (1) spinal catecholaminergic and serotonergic receptors interact synergistically to generate locomotor-like movements in chronic spinal mice, and that (2) hindlimb afferent inputs associated with the treadmill conditions contribute to the genesis of locomotor-like and non-locomotor movements induced by these drugs.
P2X receptors are ATP-gated channels permeable to cations including Ca(2+). In acute slices containing the nucleus of the solitary tract, in which neuronal ATP release and ATP-elicited physiological responses are demonstrated in vivo, we recorded spontaneous action potential-independent EPSCs [miniature EPSCs (mEPSCs)]. Activation of presynaptic P2X receptors with alpha,beta-methylene ATP (alphabetamATP) triggered Ca(2+)-dependent glutamate release that was resistant to blockade of voltage-dependent calcium channels but abolished by P2X receptor antagonists. mEPSCs elicited with alphabetamATP were of larger amplitude than basal mEPSCs and resulted in postsynaptic firing caused by temporal summation of miniature events. The large-amplitude mEPSCs provoked by alphabetamATP were likely to result from highly synchronized multivesicular release of glutamate at single release sites. Neither alphabetamATP nor ATP facilitated GABA release. We conclude that this facilitated release and consequent postsynaptic firing underlie the profound autonomic responses to activation of P2X receptors observed in vivo.
Dopamine (DA) modulation of excitability in medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) pyramidal neurons has attracted considerable attention because of the involvement of mPFC DA in several neuronal disorders. Here, we focused on DA modulation of inwardly rectifying K(+) current (IRKC) in pyramidal neurons acutely dissociated from rat mPFC. A Cs(+)-sensitive whole-cell IRKC was elicited by hyperpolarizing voltage steps from a holding potential of -50 mV. DA (20 microm) reduced IRKC amplitude, as did selective stimulation of DA D(1) or D(2) class receptors (D(1)Rs and D(2)Rs). D(1)Rs activate, whereas D(2)Rs inhibit, the adenylyl cyclase-cAMP-protein kinase A (PKA) signaling pathway. Suppression of IRKC by D(2)R stimulation was attributable to decreased PKA activity because similar inhibition was observed with PKA inhibitors, whereas enhancing PKA activity increased IRKC. This suggests that the DA D(1)R suppression of IRKC occurred through a PKA phosphorylation-independent process. Using outside-out patches of mPFC pyramidal neurons, which preclude involvement of cytosolic signaling molecules, we observed a Cs(+)-sensitive macroscopic IRKC that was suppressed by the membrane-permeable cyclic nucleotide Sp-cAMP but was unaffected by non-nucleotide modulators of PKA, suggesting direct interactions of the cyclic nucleotides with IRK channels. Our results indicate that DA suppresses IRKC through two mechanisms: D(1)R activation of cAMP and direct interactions of the nucleotide with IRK channels and D(2)R-mediated dephosphorylation of IRK channels. The DA modulation of IRKC indicates that ambient DA would tend to increase responsiveness to excitatory inputs when PFC neurons are near the resting membrane potential and may provide a mechanism by which DA impacts higher cognitive function.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) inhibits seizures in experimental models and reduces excitability in human epileptic tissue. We studied the effect of long-lasting NPY overexpression in the rat hippocampus with local application of recombinant adeno-associated viral (AAV) vectors on acute kainate seizures and kindling epileptogenesis. Transgene expression was significantly increased by 7 d, reached maximal expression by 2 weeks, and persisted for at least 3 months. Serotype 2 AAV vector increased NPY expression in hilar interneurons, whereas the chimeric serotype 1/2 vector caused far more widespread expression, also including mossy fibers, pyramidal cells, and the subiculum. EEG seizures induced by intrahippocampal kainate were reduced by 50-75%, depending on the vector serotype, and seizure onset was markedly delayed. In rats injected with the chimeric serotype 1/2 vector, status epilepticus was abolished, and kindling acquisition was significantly delayed. Thus, targeted NPY gene transfer provides a potential therapeutic principle for the treatment of drug-resistant partial epilepsies.
Pyramidal neurons in the lateral amygdala discharge trains of action potentials that show marked spike frequency adaptation, which is primarily mediated by activation of a slow calcium-activated potassium current. We show here that these neurons also express an alpha-dendrotoxin- and tityustoxin-Kalpha-sensitive voltage-dependent potassium current that plays a key role in the control of spike discharge frequency. This current is selectively targeted to the primary apical dendrite of these neurons. Activation of micro-opioid receptors by application of morphine or d-Ala(2)-N-Me-Phe(4)-Glycol(5)-enkephalin (DAMGO) potentiates spike frequency adaptation by enhancing the alpha-dendrotoxin-sensitive potassium current. The effects of micro-opioid agonists on spike frequency adaptation were blocked by inhibiting G-proteins with N-ethylmaleimide (NEM) and by blocking phospholipase A(2). Application of arachidonic acid mimicked the actions of DAMGO or morphine. These results show that micro-opioid receptor activation enhances spike frequency adaptation in lateral amygdala neurons by modulating a voltage-dependent potassium channel containing Kv1.2 subunits, through activation of the phospholipase A(2)-arachidonic acid-lipoxygenases cascade.
Olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs) convey sensory information directly to the CNS via conventional glutamatergic synaptic contacts in olfactory bulb glomeruli. To better understand the process by which information contained in the odorant-evoked firing of ORNs is transmitted to the brain, we examined the properties of glutamate release from olfactory nerve (ON) terminals in slices of the rat olfactory bulb. We show that marked paired pulse depression is the same in simultaneously recorded periglomerular and tufted neurons, and that this form of short-term plasticity is attributable to a reduction of glutamate release from ON terminals. We used the progressive blockade of NMDA receptor (NMDAR) EPSCs by MK-801 [(5R,10S)-(+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[a,d]cyclohepten-5-10-imine hydrogen maleate] and stationary fluctuation analysis of AMPA receptor (AMPAR) EPSCs to determine the probability of release (P(r)) of ON terminals; both approaches indicated that P(r) is unusually high (&gt;/=0.8). The low-affinity glutamate receptor antagonists gamma-d-glutamylglycine and l-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid blocked ON-evoked AMPAR- and NMDAR-mediated EPSCs, respectively, to the same extent under conditions of low and high P(r), suggesting that multivesicular release is not a feature of ON terminals. Although release from most synapses exhibits a highly nonlinear dependence on extracellular Ca(2+), we find that the relationship between glutamate release and extracellular Ca(2+) at ON terminals is nearly linear. Our results suggest that ON terminals have specialized features that may contribute to the reliable transmission of sensory information from nose to brain.
In many CNS pathways, target innervation occurs by axon branching rather than extension of the primary growth cone into targets. To investigate mechanisms of branch formation, we studied the effects of attractive and inhibitory guidance cues on cortical axon branching. We found that netrin-1, which attracts cortical axons, and FGF-2 increased branching by &gt;50%, whereas semaphorin 3A (Sema3A), which repels cortical axons, inhibited branching by 50%. Importantly, none of the factors affected axon length significantly. The increase in branching by FGF-2 and the inhibition of branching by Sema3A were mediated by opposing effects on the growth cone (expansion vs collapse) and on the cytoskeleton. FGF-2 increased actin polymerization and formation of microtubule loops in growth cones over many hours, whereas Sema3A depolymerized actin filaments, attenuated microtubule dynamics, and collapsed microtubule arrays within minutes. Netrin-1 promoted rapid axon branching, often without involving the growth cone. Branches formed de novo on the axon shaft within 30 min after local application of netrin-1, which induced rapid accumulation of actin filaments in filopodia. Importantly, increased actin polymerization and microtubule dynamics were necessary for axon branching to occur. Taken together, these results show that guidance factors influence the organization and dynamics of the cytoskeleton at the growth cone and the axon shaft to promote or inhibit axon branching. Independent of axon outgrowth, axon branching in response to guidance cues can occur over different time courses by different cellular mechanisms.
Previous studies have shown that DNA damage-evoked death of primary cortical neurons occurs in a p53 and cyclin-dependent kinase-dependent (CDK) manner. The manner by which these signals modulate death is unclear. Nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) is a group of transcription factors that potentially interact with these pathways. Presently, we show that NF-kappaB is activated shortly after induction of DNA damage in a manner independent of the classic IkappaB kinase (IKK) activation pathway, CDKs, ATM, and p53. Acute inhibition of NF-kappaB via expression of a stable IkappaB mutant, downregulation of the p65 NF-kappaB subunit by RNA interference (RNAi), or pharmacological NF-kappaB inhibitors significantly protected against DNA damage-induced neuronal death. NF-kappaB inhibition also reduced p53 transcripts and p53 activity as measured by the p53-inducible messages, Puma and Noxa, implicating the p53 tumor suppressor in the mechanism of NF-kappaB-mediated neuronal death. Importantly, p53 expression still induces death in the presence of NF-kappaB inhibition, indicating that p53 acts downstream of NF-kappaB. Interestingly, neurons cultured from p65 or p50 NF-kappaB-deficient mice were not resistant to death and did not show diminished p53 activity, suggesting compensatory processes attributable to germline deficiencies, which allow p53 activation still to occur. In contrast to acute NF-kappaB inhibition, prolonged NF-kappaB inhibition caused neuronal death in the absence of DNA damage. These results uniquely define a signaling paradigm by which NF-kappaB serves both an acute p53-dependent pro-apoptotic function in the presence of DNA damage and an anti-apoptotic function in untreated normal neurons.
The dorsal CA3 region of the hippocampus is unique in its connectivity, sensitivity to neurotoxic lesions, and its ability to encode and retrieve episodic memories. Computational models of the CA3 region predict that blocking mossy-fiber and/or perforant path activity to CA3 would cause impairments in learning and recall of spatial memory, respectively. Because the CA3 region contains micro-opioid receptors and receives inputs from the mossy-fiber and lateral perforant pathways, both of which contain and release opioid peptides, we tested the hypothesis that inactivating micro-opioid receptors in the CA3 region would cause spatial learning and memory impairments and retrieval deficits. In this study, male Sprague Dawley rats were trained in a Morris water maze after a single bilateral intrahippocampal injection of either saline or the selective and irreversible micro-opioid receptor antagonist beta-funaltrexamine (beta-FNA) into area CA3. We found that micro-opioid receptor binding decreased 24 hr after beta-FNA injection and returned to control levels 11 d after injection. Injections of beta-FNA into the CA3 region, but not into the ventricles, caused a significant impairment in the acquisition of spatial learning without causing sensory or motor deficits. New learning was not affected once micro-opioid receptor levels replenished (&gt;11 d after injection). In pretrained animals, beta-FNA significantly impaired spatial memory retrieval and new (reversal) learning. These data are consistent with theoretical models of CA3 function and suggest that CA3 micro-opioid receptors play an important role in the acquisition and retrieval of spatial memory.
gamma-Secretase is a multimeric complex consisted of presenilins (PSs) and three other proteins. PSs appear to be key contributors for the enzymatic center, the potential target of a number of recently developed gamma-secretase inhibitors. Using radiolabeled and unlabeled inhibitors as ligands, this study was aimed to determine the in situ distribution of gamma-secretase in the brain. Characterization using PS-1 knock-out mouse embryos revealed 50 and 80% reductions of gamma-secretase inhibitor binding density in the heterozygous (PS-1(+/-)) and homozygous (PS-1-/-) embryos, respectively, relative to the wild type (PS-1(+/+)). The pharmacological profile from competition binding assays suggests that the ligands may target at the N- and C-terminal fragments of PS essential for gamma-secretase activity. In the adult rat brain, the binding sites existed mostly in the forebrain, the cerebellum, and discrete brainstem areas and were particularly abundant in areas rich in neuronal terminals, e.g., olfactory glomeruli, CA3-hilus area, cerebellar molecular layer, and pars reticulata of the substantia nigra. In the developing rat brain, diffuse and elevated expression of binding sites occurred at the early postnatal stage relative to the adult. The possible association of binding sites with neuronal terminals in the adult brain was further investigated after olfactory deafferentation. A significant decrease with subsequent recovery of binding sites was noted in the olfactory glomeruli after chemical damage of the olfactory epithelium. The findings in this study support a physiological role of PS or gamma-secretase complex in neuronal and synaptic development and plasticity.
The quality of the signal a retinal ganglion cell transmits to the brain is important for preception because it sets the minimum detectable stimulus. The ganglion cell converts graded potentials into a spike train with a selective filter but in the process adds noise. To explore how efficiently information is transferred to spikes, we measured contrast detection threshold and increment threshold from graded potential and spike responses of brisk-transient ganglion cells. Intracellular responses to a spot flashed over the receptive field center of the cell were recorded in an intact mammalian retina maintained in vitro at 37 degrees C. Thresholds were measured in a single-interval forced-choice procedure with an ideal observer. The graded potential gave a detection threshold of 1.5% contrast, whereas spikes gave 3.8%. The graded potential also gave increment thresholds approximately twofold lower and carried approximately 60% more gray levels. Increment threshold &quot;dipped&quot; below the detection threshold at a low contrast (&lt;5%) but increased rapidly at higher contrasts. The magnitude of the &quot;dipper&quot; for both graded potential and spikes could be predicted from a threshold nonlinearity in the responses. Depolarization of the cell by current injection reduced the detection threshold for spikes but also reduced the range of contrasts they can transmit. This suggests that contrast sensitivity and dynamic range are related in an essential trade-off.
Both brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and adenosine influence neuronal plasticity. We now investigated how adenosine influences the action of BDNF on synaptic transmission in the CA1 area of the rat hippocampal slices. Alone, BDNF (20-100 ng/ml) did not significantly affect field EPSPs (fEPSPs). However, a 2 min pulse of high-K(+) (10 mm) 46 min before the application of BDNF (20 ng/ml) triggered an excitatory action, an effect blocked by the TrkB receptor inhibitor K252a (200 nm), by the adenosine A(2A) receptor antagonist ZM 241385 (50 nm), and by the protein kinase A inhibitor H-89 (1 microm). Presynaptic, rather than postsynaptic depolarization was required to trigger the BDNF action because after K(+) depolarization BDNF also increased EPSCs recorded from pyramidal neurons voltage-clamped at -60 mV, and transient postsynaptic depolarization was unable to unmask the BDNF action. A weak theta burst stimulation of the afferents could elicit potentiation of synaptic transmission only when applied in the presence of BDNF. Activation of adenosine A(2A) receptors with CGS 21680 (10 nm), or the increase in extracellular adenosine levels induced by 5-iodotubercidin (100 nm) triggered the excitatory action of BDNF, a process prevented by ZM 241385 and by H-89. In the presence of dibutyryl-cAMP (0.5 mm), BDNF also increased fEPSPs but postsynaptic cAMP (0.5 mm) was unable to trigger the BDNF action. It is concluded that presynaptic activity-dependent release of adenosine, through activation of A(2A) receptors, facilitates BDNF modulation of synaptic transmission at hippocampal synapses.
The human amygdala plays a crucial role in processing affective information conveyed by sensory stimuli. Facial expressions of fear and anger, which both signal potential threat to an observer, result in significant increases in amygdala activity, even when the faces are unattended or presented briefly and masked. It has been suggested that afferent signals from the retina travel to the amygdala via separate cortical and subcortical pathways, with the subcortical pathway underlying unconscious processing. Here we exploited the phenomenon of binocular rivalry to induce complete suppression of affective face stimuli presented to one eye. Twelve participants viewed brief, rivalrous visual displays in which a fearful, happy, or neutral face was presented to one eye while a house was presented simultaneously to the other. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging to study activation in the amygdala and extrastriate visual areas for consciously perceived versus suppressed face and house stimuli. Activation within the fusiform and parahippocampal gyri increased significantly for perceived versus suppressed faces and houses, respectively. Amygdala activation increased bilaterally in response to fearful versus neutral faces, regardless of whether the face was perceived consciously or suppressed because of binocular rivalry. Amygdala activity also increased significantly for happy versus neutral faces, but only when the face was suppressed. This activation pattern suggests that the amygdala has a limited capacity to differentiate between specific facial expressions when it must rely on information received via a subcortical route. We suggest that this limited capacity reflects a tradeoff between specificity and speed of processing.
In an effort to understand the complexity of genomic responses within selectively vulnerable regions after experimental brain injury, we examined whether single apoptotic neurons from both the CA3 and dentate differed from those in an uninjured brain. The mRNA from individual active caspase 3(+)/terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated biotinylated UTP nick end labeling [TUNEL(-)] and active caspase 3(+)/TUNEL(+) pyramidal and granule neurons in brain-injured mice were amplified and compared with those from nonlabeled neurons in uninjured brains. Gene analysis revealed that overall expression of mRNAs increased with activation of caspase 3 and decreased to below uninjured levels with TUNEL reactivity. Cell type specificity of the apoptotic response was observed with both regionally distinct expression of mRNAs and differences in those mRNAs that were maximally regulated. Immunohistochemical analysis for two of the most highly differentially expressed genes (prion and Sos2) demonstrated a correlation between the observed differential gene expression after traumatic brain injury and corresponding protein translation.
Gap junctions consist of intercellular channels dedicated to providing a direct pathway for ionic and biochemical communication between contacting cells. After an initial burst of publications describing electrical coupling in the brain, gap junctions progressively became less fashionable among neurobiologists, as the consensus was that this form of synaptic transmission would play a minimal role in shaping neuronal activity in higher vertebrates. Several new findings over the last decade (e.g. the implication of connexins in genetic diseases of the nervous system, in processing sensory information and in synchronizing the activity of neuronal networks) have brought gap junctions back into the spotlight. The appearance of gap junctional coupling in the nervous system is developmentally regulated, restricted to distinct cell types and persists after the establishment of chemical synapses, thus suggesting that this form of cell-cell signaling may be functionally interrelated with, rather than alternative to chemical transmission. This review focuses on gap junctions between neurons and summarizes the available data, derived from molecular, biological, electrophysiological, and genetic approaches, that are contributing to a new appreciation of their role in brain function.
Over the last two decades, the view of gap junction (GJ) channel gating has changed from one with GJs having a single transjunctional voltage-sensitive (V(j)-sensitive) gating mechanism to one with each hemichannel of a formed GJ channel, as well as unapposed hemichannels, containing two, molecularly distinct gating mechanisms. These mechanisms are termed fast gating and slow or 'loop' gating. It appears that the fast gating mechanism is solely sensitive to V(j) and induces fast gating transitions between the open state and a particular substate, termed the residual conductance state. The slow gating mechanism is also sensitive to V(j), but there is evidence that this gate may mediate gating by transmembrane voltage (V(m)), intracellular Ca(2+) and pH, chemical uncouplers and GJ channel opening during de novo channel formation. A distinguishing feature of the slow gate is that the gating transitions appear to be slow, consisting of a series of transient substates en route to opening and closing. Published reports suggest that both sensorial and gating elements of the fast gating mechanism are formed by transmembrane and cytoplamic components of connexins among which the N terminus is most essential and which determines gating polarity. We propose that the gating element of the slow gating mechanism is located closer to the central region of the channel pore and serves as a 'common' gate linked to several sensing elements that are responsive to different factors and located in different regions of the channel.

Prepulse inhibition is a type of sensorimotor gating that is disrupted in some neuropsychiatric disorders. Its cellular basis has eluded investigators but now, using a molluscan model system, a cellular mechanism has been established.
The brain receives signals from a variety of sources; for example, visual and auditory signals can both indicate the direction of a stimulus, but with differing precision. A recent study has shed light on the way that the brain combines these signals to achieve the best estimate possible.
The death of hair cells in the inner ear as a result of exposure to loud noise can lead to irreversible deafness. New work shows that the mammalian cochlea can sense noxious sounds and use Ca(2+) waves to rapidly propagate hair cell damage signals.

The presentation of secreted axon guidance factors plays a major role in shaping central nervous system (CNS) connectivity. Recent work suggests that heparan sulfate (HS) regulates guidance factor activity; however, the in vivo axon guidance roles of its carrier proteins (heparan sulfate proteoglycans, or HSPGs) are largely unknown. Here we demonstrate through genetic analysis in vivo that the HSPG Syndecan (Sdc) is critical for the fidelity of Slit repellent signaling at the midline of the Drosophila CNS, consistent with the localization of Sdc to CNS axons. sdc mutants exhibit consistent defects in midline axon guidance, plus potent and specific genetic interactions supporting a model in which HSPGs improve the efficiency of Slit localization and/or signaling. To test this hypothesis, we show that Slit distribution is altered in sdc mutants and that Slit and its receptor bind to Sdc. However, when we compare the function of the transmembrane Sdc to a different class of HSPG that localizes to CNS axons (Dallylike), we find functional redundancy, suggesting that these proteoglycans act as spatially specific carriers of common HS structures that enable growth cones to interact with and perceive Slit as it diffuses away from its source at the CNS midline.
A growing body of neuroimaging and neurophysiology studies has demonstrated the motor system's involvement in the observation of actions, but the functional significance of this is still unclear. One hypothesis suggests that the motor system decodes observed actions. This hypothesis predicts that performing a concurrent action should influence the perception of an observed action. We tested this prediction by asking subjects to judge the weight of a box lifted by an actor while the subject either lifted or passively held a light or heavy box. We found that actively lifting a box altered the perceptual judgment; an observed box was judged to be heavier when subjects were lifting the light box, and it was judged to be lighter when they were lifting the heavy box. This result is surprising because previous studies have found facilitating effects of movement on perceptual judgments and facilitating effects of observed actions on movements, but here we found the opposite. We hypothesize that this effect can be understood in terms of overlapping neural systems for motor control and action-understanding if multiple models of possible observed and performed actions are processed.
Walker-Warburg syndrome (WWS) is a congenital muscular dystrophy associated with neuronal migration disorder and structural eye abnormalities. The mutations in the O-mannosyltransferase 1 gene (POMT1) were identified recently in 20% of patients with WWS. The authors report on a patient with WWS and a novel POMT1 mutation. Their patient expressed alpha-dystroglycan (alpha-DG) core protein, but fully glycosylated alpha-DG antibody epitopes were absent, associated with the loss of laminin-binding activity.


Estrogen receptors (ERs) are believed to be ligand-activated transcription factors belonging to the nuclear receptor superfamily, which on ligand binding translocate into the nucleus and activate gene transcription. To date, two ERs have been identified: ERalpha and ERbeta. ERalpha plays major role in the estrogen-mediated genomic actions in both reproductive and nonreproductive tissue, whereas the function of ERbeta is still unclear. In this study, we used immunocytochemistry, immunoblotting, and proteomics to demonstrate that ERbeta localizes to the mitochondria. In immunocytochemistry studies, ERbeta was detected with two ERbeta antibodies and found to colocalize almost exclusively with a mitochondrial marker in rat primary neuron, primary cardiomyocyte, and a murine hippocampal cell line. The colocalization of ERbeta and mitochondrial markers was identified by both fluorescence and confocal microscopy. No translocation of ERbeta into the nucleus on 17beta-estradiol treatment was seen by using immunocytochemistry. Immunoblotting of purified human heart mitochondria showed an intense signal of ERbeta, whereas no signals for nuclear and other organelle markers were found. Finally, purified human heart mitochondrial proteins were separated by SDS/PAGE. The 50,000-65,000 M(r) band was digested with trypsin and subjected to matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometric analysis, which revealed seven tryptic fragments that matched with those of ERbeta. In summary, this study demonstrated that ERbeta is localized to mitochondria, suggesting a role for mitochondrial ERbeta in estrogen effects on this important organelle.
Migration of neuronal precursor cells in the developing brain is guided by extracellular cues, but intracellular signaling processes underlying the guidance of neuronal migration are largely unknown. By examining the migration of cerebellar granule neurons along the surface of cocultured astroglial cells, we found that an extracellular gradient of Slit2, a chemorepellant for neuronal migration in vivo, caused a reversal in the direction of migration without affecting the migration speed. A Slit2 gradient elevated the intracellular concentration of Ca2+, probably due to calcium release from the internal store, led to a reversal of the preexisting asymmetric intracellular Ca2+ distribution in the soma of migrating neurons, and this reversal was closely related with its action of reversing the migrating direction. Asymmetric Ca2+ distribution in the soma was both necessary and sufficient for directing neuronal migration. These results have demonstrated an important role for Ca2+ in mediating neuronal responses to Slit2 and suggest a general mechanism for neuronal guidance.
Surface perception is fundamental to human vision, yet most studies of visual cortex have focused on the processing of borders. We therefore investigated the responses of human visual cortex to parametric changes in the luminance of uniform surfaces by using functional MRI. Early visual areas V1 and V2/V3 showed strong and reliable increases in signal for both increments and decrements in surface luminance. Responses were significantly larger for decrements than for increments, which was fully accounted for by differences in retinal illumination arising from asymmetric pupil dynamics. Responses to both sustained and transient changes of illumination were transient. Signals in early visual cortex scaled linearly with the magnitude of change in retinal illumination, as did subjects' subjective ratings of the perceived brightness of the stimuli. Our findings show that early visual cortex responds strongly to surfaces and that perception of surface brightness is compatible with brain responses at the earliest cortical stages of processing.
The detailed organization of somatosensory area 3a was examined in macaque monkeys using multiunit electrophysiological recording techniques. By examining topographic relationships, changes in receptive field size, and the type of stimulus that neurons responded to, functional boundaries of area 3a were determined and related to architectonic boundaries. One striking observation was that the location of area 3a varied with respect to the central sulcus. In one-half of the cases area 3a was on the rostral bank and fundus of the central sulcus and in the other half of the cases it was on the caudal bank and fundus of the central sulcus. In terms of topographic organization, we found that area 3a contains a complete representation of deep receptors and musculature of the contralateral body, and that the general organization of body part representations mirrors that of the primary somatosensory area, 3b. These results as well as results from studies of area 3a in ours and other laboratories indicate that area 3a is part of a network involved in proprioception, postural control, and the generation of coordinated movements. Further, comparative analysis of area 3a in a variety of species suggests that its construction is based, to a large extent, on the use of a particular body part rather than on innervation density.
The cnidarian nervous system is considered by many to represent neuronal organization in its earliest and simplest form. Here we demonstrate, for the first time in the Cnidaria, the neuronal localization of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) in the hydromedusa Aglantha digitale (Trachylina). Expression of specific, fixative-resistant NADPH-diaphorase (NADPH-d) activity, characteristic of NOS, was observed in neurites running in the outer nerve ring at the base of the animal and in putative sensory cells in the ectoderm covering its tentacles. At both sites, diphenyleneiodonium (10(-4) M) abolished staining. Capillary electrophoresis confirmed that the NO breakdown products NO2- and NO3- were present at high levels in the tentacles, but were not detectable in NADPH-d-negative areas. The NADPH-d-reactive neurons in the tentacles send processes to regions adjacent to the inner nerve ring where swimming pacemaker cells are located. Free-moving animals and semi-intact preparations were used to test whether NO is involved in regulating the swimming program. NO (30-50 nM) and its precursor L-arginine (1 mM) stimulated swimming, and the effect was mimicked by 8-Br-cGMP (50-100 microM). The NO scavenger PTIO (10-100 microM) and a competitive inhibitor of NOS, L-nitroarginine methyl ester (L-NAME, 200 microM), significantly decreased the swimming frequency in free-moving animals, while its less-active stereoisomer D-nitroarginine methyl ester (D-NAME, 200 microM) had no such effect. 1H-[1,2,4]oxadiazolo[4,3-a]quinoxaline-1-one (ODQ, 5-20 microM), a selective inhibitor of soluble guanylyl cyclase, suppressed spontaneous swimming and prevented NO-induced activation of the swimming program. We suggest that an NO/cGMP signaling pathway modulates the rhythmic swimming associated with feeding in Aglantha, possibly by means of putative nitrergic sensory neurons in its tentacles.
The mechanisms that control cellular pattern formation in the growing vertebrate central nervous system are poorly understood. In an effort to reveal mechanistic rules of cellular pattern formation in the central nervous system, quantitative spatial analysis and computational modeling techniques were applied to cellular patterns in the inner retina of the adult zebrafish. All the analyzed cell types were arrayed in nonrandom patterns tending toward regularity; specifically, they were locally anticlustered. Over relatively large spatial scales, only one cell type exhibited consistent evidence for pattern regularity, suggesting that cellular pattern formation in the inner retina is dominated by local anticlustering mechanisms. Cross-correlation analyses revealed independence between the patterns of different cell types, suggesting that cellular pattern formation may involve multiple, independent, homotypic anticlustering mechanisms. A computational model of cellular pattern formation in the growing zebrafish retina was developed, which featured an inhibitory, homotypic signaling mechanism, arising from differentiated cells, that controlled the spatial profile of cell fate decisions. By adjusting the spatial profile of this decaying-exponential signal, the model provided good estimates of all the cellular patterns that were observed in vivo, as objectively judged by quantitative spatial pattern analyses. The results support the hypothesis that cellular pattern formation in the inner retina of zebrafish is dominated by a set of anticlustering mechanisms that may control events at, or near, the spatiotemporal point of cell fate decision.
Environmental stimuli and conditioned cues associated with heroin can induce drug-seeking behavior, but how heroin lapse interacts with cues is unclear. Rats were trained to nose-poke for i.v. heroin for 14 days and then tested for heroin seeking after withdrawal from heroin self-administration. Heroin seeking induced by cues persisted over several weeks after withdrawal, and the responding was not easily extinguished after 4 weeks withdrawal. A single injection of heroin (250 micro g/kg) enhanced the responding at early stage of withdrawal, but a low dose of heroin (50, 250 micro g/kg) suppressed the responding induced by contextual or conditioned cues at 4 weeks of withdrawal. The results suggest that prolonged withdrawal may increase the risk of relapse to heroin seeking.
The present study aimed to systematically observe the change of vanilloid receptor 1 (VR1) during inflammatory nociception induced by intraplantar injection of complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) into the left hind paw in rats. Hot plate latency (HPL) was used to evaluate resulting thermal hyperalgesia and immunohistochemistry to observe VR1 expression in dorsal root ganglion and spinal cord dorsal horn. Results showed that HPL decreased from day 1 to day 28 after CFA injection, with shortest at day 14. VR1 expression correspondingly increased from day 1 to day 21 with peak at day 14, and returning to the control level at day 28. A shift of VRI expression from small to medium DRG neurons over the observation period was seen. These results suggest that VR1 could play an important role in the early stage, but not the late stage, of CFA inflammatory nociception.
It is proposed that real and imagined movements activate identical neural networks. Cortical oscillatory activity is proposed as a mechanism through which distributed neuronal networks may bind into coherent ensembles and coupling of oscillators is used as a tool to investigate modulations of cortical connectivity. The aim of the present study was to test the hypothesis that, although the same brain network is involved in both real and imagined movements, the functional connectivity within the network differs. To do so, we measured interregional coupling, quantified using coherence between scalp EEG electrodes, during different periods of a prehension task during real and imagined movements. The results demonstrated a different pattern of coupling in the beta frequency range between electrodes overlying occipital and motor cortices during executed and imagined movements. These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that the neural networks during real and imagined movements are not identical.
Although ATP is reported to modulate synaptic plasticity, the mechanism of action of ATP on synaptic transmission is not fully understood. Here we show that ATP enhances long-term potentiation (LTP), and P2X receptor antagonists inhibit this ATP effect, but do not affect paired pulse facilitation (PPF) in rat hippocampal slices. ATP rapidly increases intracellular calcium, and P2X receptor antagonists inhibit this increase in cultured dissociated neurons. These results indicate that ATP enhances LTP via activation of postsynaptic P2X receptors. A pertussis toxin-sensitive G-protein inhibitor significantly attenuates PPF, although it does not affect LTP, indicating that presynaptic P2Y receptors also play an important role in neuronal plasticity. We conclude that ATP modulates synaptic plasticity via dual effects on pre- and post-synaptic mechanisms.
Using fMRI, we explored cortical responses to dichoptically presented random-dot (RD) stimuli which formed a checkerboard by means of horizontal disparity (Julesz). Depth reversals occurred every 800 ms by appropriate horizontal shifting of a subset of the RD pattern. We compared cortical blood oxygen level dependent (BOLD) responses of five subjects under conditions with and without binocular disparity. The results indicate that only extrastriate, but not striate, areas responded more to the stimuli with binocular disparity. We further found that the BOLD signal increased with increasing disparity level only in dorsal areas of occipito-parietal and prefrontal cortex. These results suggest that the fMRI BOLD response can reflect the processing of relative binocular disparity in extrastriate cortex.
Magnetic labeling of transplanted cells permits us to monitor their localization non-invasively using MRI. Since most transfection agents for magnetic labeling have the same cationic charge as Fe(3+), the efficiency may be reduced. The hemagglutinating virus-envelope has no charge and utilizes membrane fusion activity to deliver internalized materials. In this study, we investigated the feasibility of using the envelope to incorporate paramagnetic Fe(3+) particles into PC12 cells and astrocytes. The envelope effectively labeled both cells with Fe(3+), which showed significant decreases of signal intensity in T2-weighted MRI. Labeled cells transplanted into the rat striatum were clearly visualized by T2*-weighted MRI at a magnetic field of 2 T. The results indicate that the hemagglutinating virus-envelope is a powerful tool for magnetic labeling.
Chronic fatigue is a typical symptom of neurological diseases, and is most disabling in multiple sclerosis, postpoliomyelitis, poststroke, and in chronic fatigue syndrome. Disorders of neuromuscular junction transmission and metabolic diseases cause muscle fatigability, which is characterised by failure to sustain the force of muscle contraction (peripheral fatigue). Fatigue is also seen in diseases that affect the central, peripheral, and autonomic nervous systems (central fatigue). Enhanced perception of effort and limited endurance of sustained physical and mental activities are the main characteristics of central fatigue. Metabolic and structural lesions that disrupt the usual process of activation in pathways interconnecting the basal ganglia, thalamus, limbic system, and higher cortical centre are implicated in the pathophysiological process of central fatigue. A state of pre-existing relative hypocortisolaemia might sensitise the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis to development of persistent central fatigue after stress. The contributions of physiological, cognitive, and affective changes underlying fatigue are variable, and treatment is largely symptomatic and rehabilitative.
In order to investigate the microtubule-associated intracellular trafficking of the NH2-terminal cellular prion protein (PrPC) fragment [Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 313 (2004) 818], we performed a real-time imaging of fluorescent PrPC (GFP-PrPC) in living cells. Such GFP-PrPC exhibited an anterograde movement towards the direction of plasma membranes at a speed of 140-180 nm/s, and a retrograde movement inwardly at a speed of 1.0-1.2 microm/s. The anterograde and retrograde movements of GFP-PrPC were blocked by a kinesin family inhibitor (AMP-PNP) and a dynein family inhibitor (vanadate), respectively. Furthermore, anti-kinesin antibody (alpha-kinesin) blocked its anterograde motility, whereas anti-dynein antibody (alpha-dynein) blocked its retrograde motility. These data suggested the kinesin family-driven anterograde and the dynein-driven retrograde movements of GFP-PrPC. Mapping of the interacting domains of PrPC identified amino acid residues indispensable for interactions with kinesin family: NH2-terminal mouse (Mo) residues 53-91 and dynein: NH2-terminal Mo residues 23-33, respectively. Our findings argue that the discrete N-terminal amino acid residues are indispensable for the anterograde and retrograde intracellular movements of PrPC.
Persistent discharge of wide dynamic range (WDR) neurons was recorded from lumbar dorsal horn of anesthetized rats following subcutaneous bee venom injection into the receptive field. To quantitatively describe the complexity of this nociceptive activity, we computed the approximate entropy (ApEn) for each sampled interspike interval (ISI) series. A larger value of ApEn indicates higher complexity or less regularity and vice versa. The ApEn value varied across different WDR neurons tested, and for each neuron the ApEn remained constant through the 1-h discharge though the average ISI of the sampled data increased progressively with time (16 neurons). A low dose of intravenous morphine (0.3 mg/kg) depressed the activity of WDR neurons differentially, and the degree of this inhibition showed a significant correlation with the value of ApEn (P&lt;0.001, 27 neurons, Spearman's correlation test). The present results suggest that the complexity feature of WDR neurons is various under tissue injury state, and for each single WDR neuron the complexity feature is relatively independent of the strength of peripheral noxious input and cannot be fully described in terms of average firing rate. Moreover, the response of the nociceptive discharge to analgesics may be related to the nonlinear dynamics feature of nociceptive neurons, which can be quantitatively characterized by the degree of complexity.
To determine whether hippocampal pyramidal neurons retain authentic functional properties in mature organotypic culture, hippocampal slice cultures were established from young adult rats (P20-21). Cultures maintained 7 days in vitro retained tight organization of neuronal layers, as opposed to the widening restructure of pyramidal neurons often observed in perinatal slices. CA3 and CA1 pyramidal neurons fired action potentials in response to current injection and exhibited spontaneous and evoked synaptic currents, indicating intact neuronal function and normal hippocampal neural circuitry. We also tested neuronal sensitivity of slice cultures to ischemic injury. Acute ischemic paradigm resulted in selective death of pyramidal neurons in the CA1 region, which was prevented by treatment with an NMDA-antagonist, MK-801. Robust efflux of excitatory and inhibitory amino acid neurotransmitters was detected during ischemia, consistent with changes shown in acute slices. In summary, hippocampal organotypic cultures prepared from young adult rats maintained neuronal architecture and synaptic activity in vitro and can be used in parallel with an acute slice system to model mature brain tissue to examine ischemic pathophysiology and neuroprotective treatment.
Behavioral, hormonal and neuronal responses to prolonged exposure to the volatile components of essential oil (EO) extracted from citrus lemon were investigated in male and female rats. Animals were exposed to the lemon essence for 2 weeks while in their cage. Anxiety was then determined with the elevated plus-maze apparatus while nociception was evaluated with a phasic thermal pain stimulus (plantar test) and with a chemical pain stimulus (formalin test). At the end of the experimental sessions, brain areas were dissected to measure beta-endorphin (beta-EP) concentrations in the hypothalamus and periaqueductal gray matter (PAG). Blood samples were collected to determine corticosterone plasma levels. In both sexes, prolonged EO exposure decreased the time spent in the open arms of the plus-maze apparatus. EO-exposed males and females showed higher thermal nociceptive thresholds than controls when tested with the plantar test apparatus. EO exposure induced female-specific decreases in formalin-induced pain behaviors during the formalin test. beta-EP concentrations in the hypothalamus and PAG were affected by EO. Corticosterone was lower in EO-exposed animals of both sexes than in their controls. These results suggest that long-term exposure to lemon EO can induce significant, at times sex-specific, changes in neuronal circuits involved in anxiety and pain.
Tay-Sachs disease is an autosomal recessive neurodegenerative disease resulting from a block in the hydrolysis of GM2 ganglioside, an intermediate in ganglioside catabolism. The mouse model of Tay-Sachs disease (Hexa -/-) has been described as behaviorally indistinguishable from wild type until at least 1 year of age due to a sialidase-mediated bypass of the metabolic defect that reduces the rate of GM2 ganglioside accumulation. In this study, we have followed our mouse model to over 2 years of age and have documented a significant disease phenotype that is reminiscent of the late onset, chronic form of human Tay-Sachs disease. Onset occurs at 11-12 months of age and progresses slowly, in parallel with increasing storage of GM2 ganglioside. The disease is characterized by hind limb spasticity, weight loss, tremors, abnormal posture with lordosis, possible visual impairment, and, late in the disease, muscle weakness, clasping of the limbs, and myoclonic twitches of the head. Immunodetection of GM2 ganglioside showed that storage varies widely in different regions, but is most intense in pyriform cortex, hippocampus (CA3 field, subiculum), amygdala, hypothalamus (paraventricular supraoptic, ventromedial and arcuate nuclei, and mammilary body), and the somatosensory cortex (layer V) in 1- to 2-year-old mutant mice. We suggest that the Tay-Sachs mouse model is a phenotypically valid model of disease and may provide for a reliable indicator of the impact of therapeutic strategies, in particular geared to the late onset, chronic form of human Tay-Sachs disease.
Injections of the muscarinic cholinergic receptor agonist pilocarpine (50 mg/kg) induced pronounced expression of the immediate early gene (IEG) product Fos in the striatum and cortex of rats. Pretreatment with the dopamine D1 receptor antagonist 7-chloro-8-hydroxy-3-methyl-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-H-3-benzazepine hydrochloride (SCH-23390; 0.2-2.0 mg/kg) drastically attenuated the pilocarpine response in the striatum, but had no effect in the cortex. In contrast, the muscarinic receptor antagonist scopolamine (0.75-3.00 mg/kg) virtually abolished the Fos response at both sites. These results suggest that stimulation of dopamine D1 receptors may mediate the effects of muscarinic agonists on Fos expression in the striatum, but not the cortex.
GABA(A) receptors are ligand-gated ion channels formed by the pseudosymmetrical assembly of five homologous subunits around the central channel axis. The five M2 membrane-spanning segments largely line the channel. In the present work we probed the water surface accessibility of the beta(1) subunit M2 segment using the substituted cysteine accessibility method. We assayed the reaction of the negatively charged sulfhydryl-specific reagent, p-chloromercuribenzenesulfonate (pCMBS(-)), by its effect on subsequent currents elicited by EC(50) and saturating GABA concentrations. pCMBS(-), applied with GABA, reacted with 14 of the 19 residues tested. At the M2 cytoplasmic end from 2' to 6' only beta(1)A252C (2') and beta(1)T256C (6') were pCMBS(-)-reactive in the presence of GABA. We infer that the M2 segments are tightly packed in this region. Toward the extracellular half of M2 all residues from beta(1)T262C (12') through beta(1)E270C (20') reacted with pCMBS(-) applied with GABA. We infer that this region is highly mobile and loosely packed against the rest of the protein. Based on differences in pCMBS(-) reaction rates two domains can be distinguished on the putative channel-lining side of M2. A faster reacting domain includes the 2', 9', 12', 13', and 16' residues. The slower reacting face contains the 6', 10', and 14' residues. We hypothesize that these may represent the channel-lining faces in the closed and open states and that gating involves an 80-100 degrees rotation of the M2 segments. These results are consistent with the loose packing of the M2 segments inferred from the structure of the homologous Torpedo nicotinic acetylcholine receptor.
Oxidative stress has been shown to underlie a diverse range of neuropathological conditions. Glutamate-induced oxidative toxicity is a well described model of oxidative stress-induced neurodegeneration that relies upon the ability of extracellular glutamate to inhibit a glutamate/cystine antiporter, which results in a depletion of intracellular cysteine and the blockade of continued glutathione synthesis. Glutathione depletion leads to a gradual toxic accumulation of reactive oxygen species. We have previously determined that glutamate-induced oxidative toxicity is accompanied by a robust increase in activation of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) member extracellular-signal regulated kinase (ERK) and that this activation is essential for neuronal cell death. This study demonstrates that delayed ERK activation is dependent upon the activity of phosphoinositol-3 kinase (PI3K) and that transient but not sustained PI3K inhibition leads to significant protection of neurons from oxidative stress-induced neurodegeneration. Furthermore, we show that transient PI3K inhibition prevents the delayed activation of MEK-1, a direct activator of ERK, during oxidative stress. Thus, this study is the first to demonstrate a novel level of cross-talk between the PI3K and ERK pathways in cultured immature cortical neuronal cultures that contributes to the unfolding of a cell death program. The PI3K pathway, therefore, may serve opposing roles during the progression of oxidative stress in neurons, acting at distinct kinetic phases to either promote or limit a slowly developing program of cell death.
Capacitative calcium influx plays an important role in shaping the Ca(2+) response of various tissues and cell types. Inhibition by heavy metals is a hallmark of store-operated calcium channel (SOCC) activity. Paradoxically, although zinc is the only potentially physiological relevant ion, it is the least investigated in terms of inhibitory mechanism. In the present study, we characterize the inhibitory mechanism of the SOCC by Zn(2+) in the human salivary cell line, HSY, and rat salivary submandibular ducts and acini by monitoring SOCC activity using fluorescence imaging. Analysis of Zn(2+) inhibition indicated that Zn(2+) acts as a competitive inhibitor of Ca(2+) influx but does not permeate through the SOCC, suggesting that Zn(2+) interacts with an extracellular site of SOCC. Application of the reducing agents, dithiothreitol (DTT) and beta-mercaptoethanol, totally eliminated Zn(2+) and Cd(2+) inhibition of SOCC, suggesting that cysteines are part of the Zn(2+) and Cd(2+) binding site. Interestingly, reducing conditions failed to eliminate the inhibition of SOCC by La(3+) and Gd(3+), indicating that the Zn(2+) and lanthanides binding sites are distinct. Finally, we show that changes in redox potential and Zn(2+) are regulating, via SOCC activity, the agonist-induced Ca(2+) response in salivary ducts. The presence of a specific Zn(2+) site, responsive to physiological Zn(2+) and redox potential, may not only be instrumental for future structural studies of various SOCC candidates but may also reveal novel physiological aspects of the interaction between zinc, redox potential, and cellular Ca(2+) homeostasis.
The collagen-tailed form of acetylcholinesterase (A(12)-AChE) appears to be localized at the neuromuscular junction in association with the transmembrane dystroglycan complex through binding of its collagenic tail (ColQ) to the proteoglycan perlecan. The heparan sulfate binding domains (HSBD) of ColQ are thought to be involved in anchoring ColQ to the synaptic basal lamina. The C-terminal domain (CTD) of ColQ is also likely involved, but there has been no direct evidence. Mutations in COLQ cause endplate AChE deficiency in humans. Nine previously reported and three novel mutations are in CTD of ColQ, and most CTD mutations do not abrogate formation of A(12)-AChE in transfected COS cells. Patient endplates, however, are devoid of AChE, suggesting that CTD mutations affect anchoring of ColQ to the synaptic basal lamina. Based on our observations that purified AChE can be transplanted to the heterologous frog neuromuscular junction, we tested insertion competence of nine naturally occurring CTD mutants and two artificial HSBD mutants. Wild-type human A(12)-AChE inserted into the frog neuromuscular junction, whereas six CTD mutants and two HSBD mutants did not. Our studies establish that the CTD mutations indeed compromise anchoring of ColQ and that both HSBD and CTD are essential for anchoring ColQ to the synaptic basal lamina.
We here describe a new molecularly engineered green fluorescent protein chimera that shows a high sensitivity to pH in the alkaline range. This probe was named mtAlpHi, for mitochondrial alkaline pH indicator, and possesses several key properties that render it optimal for studying the dynamics of mitochondrial matrix pH, e.g. it has an apparent pK(a) (pK(a)') around 8.5, it shows reversible and large changes in fluorescence in response to changes in pH (both in vitro and in intact cells), and it is selectively targeted to the mitochondrial matrix. Using mtAlpHi we could monitor pH changes that occur in the mitochondrial matrix in a variety of situations, e.g. treatment with uncouplers or Ca(2+) ionophores, addition of drugs that interfere with ATP synthesis or electron flow in the respiratory chain, weak bases or acids, and receptor activation. We observed heterogeneous pH increases in the mitochondrial matrix during Ca(2+) accumulation by this organelle. Finally, we demonstrate that Ca(2+) mobilization from internal stores induced by ionomycin and A23187 cause a dramatic acidification of the mitochondrial matrix.
Curcumin is a natural polyphenolic compound having an antiproliferative property, which recent evidence suggests is due to its ability to induce apoptosis. However, the molecular mechanisms through which curcumin induces apoptosis are not fully understood. Here, we report that the curcumin-induced apoptosis is mediated through the impairment of the ubiquitin-proteasome system. Exposure of curcumin to the mouse neuro 2a cells causes a dose-dependent decrease in proteasome activity and an increase in ubiquitinated proteins. Curcumin exposure also decreases the turnover of the destabilized enhanced green fluorescence protein, a model substrate for proteasome and cellular p53 protein. Like other proteasome inhibitors, curcumin targets proliferative cells more efficiently than differentiated cells and induces apoptosis via mitochondrial pathways. Addition of curcumin to neuro 2a cells induces a rapid decrease in mitochondrial membrane potential and the release of cytochrome c into cytosol, followed by activation of caspase-9 and caspase-3.
As the main beta-secretase of the central nervous system, BACE-1 is a key protein in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. Excessive expression of the protein might cause an overproduction of the neurotoxic beta-amyloid peptide. Therefore, a tight regulation of BACE-1 expression is expected in vivo. In addition to a possible transcriptional control, the BACE-1 transcript leader contains features that might constitute mechanisms of translational regulation of protein expression. Moreover, recent work has revealed an increase of BACE-1 protein and beta-secretase activity in some Alzheimer's disease patients, although a corresponding increase of transcript has not been reported. Here we show that BACE-1 translation could be modulated at multiple stages. The presence of several upstream ATGs strongly reduces the translation of the main open reading frame. This inhibition could be overcome with conditions that favour skipping of upstream ATGs. We also report an alternative splicing of the BACE-1 transcript leader that reduces the number of upstream ATGs. Finally, we show that translation driven by the BACE-1 transcript leader is increased in activated astrocytes independently of the splicing event, indicating yet another mechanism of translational control. Our findings might explain why increases in BACE-1 protein or activity are reported in the brain of Alzheimer's disease patients even in the absence of changes in transcript levels.
The distribution and terminal morphology of the corticothalamic projection originating from the primary auditory cortex (A1) were established in a macaque monkey, using the anterograde (and retrograde) tracer biotinylated dextran amine. A dense corticothalamic projection from A1 was found in the ventral (vMGB) and dorsal (dMGB) divisions of the medial geniculate body and, to a lesser extent, in the medial division (mMGB), the posterior thalamic nucleus (PO) and the suprageniculate nucleus. Most terminal boutons were small (&lt;1 microm), except some large boutons (2-6 microm) located in PO and vMGB. The data demonstrate that the corticothalamic projection from A1 in primate consists of two types of terminals (small and giant endings) in line with previous observations in rat and cat. Retrogradely labeled thalamocortical neurons formed clusters generally overlapping the corticothalamic terminal fields.
N-Acetylaspartate (NAA) is an abundant amino acid derivative of the central nervous system that is localized primarily in neurons and has found widespread use in clinical NMR spectroscopy (MRS) as a non-invasive indicator of neuronal survival and/or viability. Its function, although still obscure, is thought to reflect its unusual metabolic compartmentalization wherein NAA synthase occurs in the neuron and aspartoacylase, the hydrolytic enzyme that removes the acetyl moiety, occurs in myelin and glia. The NAA synthase enzyme, acetyl-CoA/l-aspartate N-acetyltransferase (ANAT), was previously shown to function in mitochondria (MIT), although other subcellular fractions were apparently not examined. In this study we confirmed its presence in MIT but also found significant activity in rat brain microsomes (MIC). The reaction mixture, consisting of [(14)C]aspartate plus acetyl-CoA in Na-phosphate buffer (pH 7), gave rise to [(14)C]NAA that was separated and quantified by TLC. Reaction rates were 29.0+/-0.46 and 6.27+/-0.27 nmol/h/mg for MIC and MIT, respectively. K(m) values and pH optima were similar, and both fractions showed modest enhancement of ANAT activity with the detergents Triton CF-54 and CHAPS. Our tentative conclusion is that ANAT is bimodally targeted to MIT and a component of MIC-likely endoplasmic reticulum. ANAT activity increased in both MIC and MIT between 29 and 60 days of age but differed thereafter in that only MIT ANAT showed a decrease after 1 year.
The genes encoding microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2), and the alpha subunit of calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (alphaCaMKII), are members of a small number of genes whose expression is increased in hippocampal neurones during the intermediate phase of long-term potentiation (LTP)-a phase dependent on mRNA translation but not on gene transcription. However, the intracellular signalling pathways which mediate these increases in expression are largely unknown. Organotypic slice cultures of rat hippocampus were exposed to either forskolin (to elevate cAMP levels), A23187 (to increase intracellular Ca(2+) levels) or the corresponding vehicle. The levels of immunoreactive (ir-) MAP2 were increased 4 h after forskolin treatment, but were unaffected by A23187 treatment. Conversely, the levels of ir-alphaCaMKII were increased 4 h after A23187 treatment, but were unaffected by forskolin. The regulation of the expression of these proteins was the same in the CA3 region as in the CA1 and dentate gyrus of the hippocampus. While rapamycin reduced the basal levels of ir-MAP2, it did not affect the ability of either forskolin or A23187 to enhance ir-MAP2 or ir-alphaCaMKII levels. These results suggest that cAMP and Ca(2+) differentially modulate the expression of these two plasticity-related genes, and that translational enhancement via the mammalian target of rapamycin kinase is not involved in these effects.
Chemoattractant-like receptor 1 (CMKLR1) is a functionally unknown (&quot;orphan&quot;) G-protein coupled receptor. It has been implicated in osseous and cartilage development, and it also has a pathophysiological role as one of the minor coreceptors involved in human immunodeficiency virus type I (HIV-1)/simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) infection of CD4(+) immune cells. Here we report the cloning of the mouse cmklr1 gene, the characterization of its genomic structure for comparison with the human gene, and the mapping and functional analysis of its 5' flanking sequence. The gene was found to contain three exons intercepted by one larger and one smaller intron. The overall structure resembles the human orthologue. The promoter lacks classical TATA and CCAAT boxes but contains several GC-rich regions as well as AP-4 elements, C/EBP motifs, and GATA-1 and GATA-2 binding sites. Promoter function was analyzed in mouse neuroblastoma (NB4 1A3) cells, endogenously expressing CMKLR1, as well as in mouse embryonic fibroblastic (3T3 clone A31) cells not expressing CMKLR1. 5' Deletion analysis and luciferase reporter gene assays of the promoter indicated that a 280-bp sequence adjacent to the transcription start site (established through 5'-RACE) is essential for initiating transcription. Within this region it was possible to identify four potential Sp1-binding sites that may be active in the transcription of the gene. Thus, we show that the mcmklr1 gene has several conserved features in common with its human counterpart, which suggests that they are regulated in a similar manner. The promoter does not seem to be tissue specific but other elements or enhancers may be missing. The results provide a necessary basis for further studies of the gene regulation and function of this chemoattractant-like receptor and will be useful when manipulating the gene in the development of transgenic animal models.
PCTAIRE 3 is a member of the PCTAIRE subfamily of cdc2-related serine/threonine protein kinases. In the present study, cDNAs encoding two isoforms of PCTAIRE 3 have been cloned and the genomic organization of the human PCTAIRE 3 gene is reported. The gene spans 28.15 kb on chromosome 1q31-32 and contains 16 exons. The major transcript of PCTAIRE 3, designated PCTAIRE 3a, has an open reading frame that is 474 amino acids in length. Transcripts for PCTAIRE 3a were evident throughout the brain and in the majority of tissues analyzed. A second transcript containing an insert that adds 90 nucleotides to the third exon of the gene was also identified. This transcript, designated PCTAIRE 3b, encodes a polypeptide of 504 amino acids. Expression of PCTAIRE 3b was limited to several subcortical nuclei of the basal gangli and the spinal cord and substantial levels of this transcript were not evident outside of the central nervous system. Primary sequence comparisons between different cdc2-related serine/threonine protein kinases reveal that these proteins are most heterogeneous in their N-terminal domains and the PCTAIRE subfamily is further diversified by the presence of isoforms within this region.
The arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus (ARH) is a critical component of forebrain pathways that regulate a variety of neuroendocrine functions, including an important role in relaying leptin signals to other parts of the hypothalamus. However, neonatal rodents do not lose weight in response to leptin treatment in the same way as do adults, suggesting that certain aspects of leptin signaling pathways in the hypothalamus may not be mature. We tested this possibility by using DiI axonal labeling to examine the development of projections from the ARH to other parts of the hypothalamus in neonatal mice, paying particular attention to the innervation of the paraventricular nucleus (PVH), the dorsomedial nucleus (DMH), and the lateral hypothalamic area (LHA), each of which have been implicated in the regulation of feeding. The results indicate that ARH projections are quite immature at birth and appear to innervate the DMH, PVH, and LHA in succession, within distinct temporal domains. The projections from the ARH to the DMH develop rapidly and are established by the sixth postnatal day (P6), whereas those to the PVH develop significantly later, with the mature pattern of innervation first apparent between postnatal day 8 (P8)-P10. Furthermore, the ability of leptin to activate Fos in the PVH, DMH, and LHA appears to be age-dependent and correlates with the arrival of ARH projections to each nucleus. Taken together, these findings provide new insight into development of hypothalamic circuits and suggest an anatomical basis for the delayed postnatal regulation of food intake and body weight by leptin.
Previous studies demonstrated that strain H129 of herpes simplex virus-1 undergoes anterograde transneuronal transport in mice and primates after peripheral or central injection. In this study, H129 was used in rats to identify CNS regions that receive relayed viscero-sensory inputs from the stomach wall. We also examined whether transneuronal viral transport in this model is exclusively anterograde. H129 or an established retrograde transneuronal viral tracer, pseudorabies virus (PRV), was injected into the ventral stomach wall in intact rats or in rats with previous subdiaphragmatic vagal sensory deafferentation. Rats were perfused with fixative 3-5 d later, and tissues were processed for immunocytochemical detection of transported virus. In intact rats, H129 was transported transneuronally via vagal and spinal viscerosensory neurons to postsynaptic target cells in the medullary dorsal vagal complex and thoracic dorsal horn, respectively, with subsequent transport to discrete regions of the medullary and pontine reticular formation, cerebellum, parabrachial nucleus, periaqueductal gray, thalamus, hypothalamus, amygdala, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, and other central sites. Comparison of labeling patterns in intact and vagal deafferented rats indicated that H129 also produced first-order retrograde infection of autonomic neurons that project directly to virus injection sites, similar to PRV. Unlike PRV, however, H129 was not transported transneuronally in the retrograde direction from infected neurons to central sources of presynaptic input. We conclude that transneuronal transport of H129 occurs exclusively in the anterograde direction to reveal CNS regions that receive direct and relayed viscerosensory signals.
Apoptosis is an evolutionarily conserved process critical to tissue development and tissue homeostasis in eukaryotic organisms and, when dysregulated, causes inappropriate cell death. Global ischemia is a neuronal insult that induces delayed cell death with many features of apoptosis. Ischemic preconditioning affords robust protection of CA1 neurons against a subsequent severe ischemic challenge. The molecular mechanisms underlying ischemic tolerance are unclear. Here we show that ischemia induces pronounced caspase-3 activity in naive neurons that die and in preconditioned neurons that survive. Preconditioning intervenes downstream of proteolytic processing and activation of caspase-3 (a protease implicated in the execution of apoptosis) and upstream of the caspase-3 target caspase-activated DNase (CAD, a deoxyribonuclease that catalyzes DNA fragmentation) to arrest neuronal death. We further show that global ischemia promotes expression of the pro-survival inhibitor-of-apoptosis (IAP) family member cIAP, but unleashes Smac/DIABLO (second mitochondria-derived activator of caspases/direct IAP-binding protein with low pI), a factor that neutralizes the protective actions of IAPs and promotes neuronal death. Preconditioning blocks the mitochondrial release of Smac/DIABLO, but not the ischemia-induced upregulation of IAPs. In the absence of Smac/DIABLO, cIAP halts the caspase death cascade and arrests neuronal death. These findings suggest that preconditioning preserves the integrity of the mitochondrial membrane, enabling neurons to survive in the face of caspase activation.
Fragile X syndrome is caused by the absence of the mRNA-binding protein Fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP), which may play a role in activity-regulated localization and translation of mRNA in dendrites and at synapses. We investigated whether neuronal activity and glutamatergic signals regulate trafficking of FMRP and its encoding Fmr1 mRNA into dendrites or at synapses. Using high-resolution fluorescence and digital imaging microscopy in cultured hippocampal neurons, FMRP and Fmr1 mRNA were localized in granules throughout dendrites and within spines. KCl depolarization rapidly increased FMRP and Fmr1 mRNA levels in dendrites. Metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) activation, in particular mGluR5 activation, was necessary for localization of FMRP into dendrites. Blockade of either PKC or internal calcium prevented mGluR-dependent localization of both FMRP and Fmr1 mRNA in dendrites. The activity-dependent localization of FMRP was not dependent on protein synthesis. Fluorescence recovery after photobleaching analysis of live neurons transfected with enhanced green fluorescent protein-FMRP revealed increased granule trafficking in response to KCl depolarization. In contrast to its dendritic localization, mGluR activation diminished FMRP, but not Fmr1 mRNA, localization at synapses. These results demonstrate regulation of FMRP and Fmr1 mRNA trafficking in dendrites and synapses in response to specific glutamatergic signals.
Astrocytes exhibit excitability based on variations of their intracellular Ca2+ concentrations, which leads to glutamate release, that in turn can signal to adjacent neurons. This glutamate-mediated astrocyte-neuron signaling occurs at physiological intracellular Ca2+ levels in astrocytes and includes modulation of synaptic transmission. The mechanism underlying Ca2+-dependent glutamate release from astrocytes is most likely exocytosis, because astrocytes express the protein components of the soluble N-ethyl maleimide-sensitive fusion protein attachment protein receptors complex, including synaptobrevin 2, syntaxin, and synaptosome-associated protein of 23 kDa. Although these proteins mediate Ca2+-dependent glutamate release from astrocytes, it is not well understood whether astrocytes express functional vesicular glutamate transporters (VGLUTs) that are critical for vesicle refilling. Here, we find in cultured and freshly isolated astrocytes the presence of brain-specific Na+-dependent inorganic phosphate cotransporter and differentiation-associated Na+-dependent inorganic phosphate cotransporter that have recently been identified as VGLUTs 1 and 2. Indirect immunocytochemistry showed a punctate pattern of VGLUT immunoreactivity throughout the entire cell body and processes, whereas pharmacological inhibition of VGLUTs abolished mechanically and agonist-evoked Ca2+-dependent glutamate release from astrocytes. Taken together, these data indicate that VGLUTs play a functional role in exocytotic glutamate release from astrocytes.
Photoreceptor retinol dehydrogenase (prRDH) is a membrane-associated cytosolic protein that localizes to the outer segments (OS) of rods and cones. Here, we demonstrate that the C-terminal 16 amino acids of prRDH confer membrane association as well as cone and rod OS targeting on a linked green fluorescent protein. Membrane association in transfected 293 cells and in transgenic Xenopus photoreceptors is mediated by fatty acylation at one or more evolutionarily conserved cysteines within the prRDH C-terminal tail. In bovine OS, native prRDH is similarly acylated, and hydrolysis of this linkage releases the protein from the membrane. Efficient OS localization requires both membrane association and the prRDH sequence. (V/I)XPX at the extreme C terminus, which closely resembles the C-terminal sequence that targets opsin/rhodopsin to the OS. Taken together, these data imply that the C-terminal. (V/I)XPX sequence is a general OS localization signal that can function in the context of both integral and peripheral membrane proteins. This strategy for OS localization resembles those used for protein localization to mitochondria, peroxisomes, endosomes, and endoplasmic reticulum; in each case, a short N- or C-terminal sequence is shared among structurally diverse proteins that are targeted to the same subcellular destination.
A recently developed method permits calculation of the post-spike distance-to-threshold trajectory from an extracellularly recorded spontaneous spike train, using a transform of the interspike interval histogram. We applied this method to 61 single neurones recorded from the primary motor cortex of an awake behaving monkey; 39 cells were antidromically identified as pyramidal tract neurones (PTNs). The cells fell into three categories. Fifty-three trajectories (37 from PTNs) had statistically significant peaks 10-60 ms after the preceding spike. Six neurones (2 PTNs) had non-peaked trajectories which rose exponentially towards threshold. Two cells (both unidentified) had trajectories which declined monotonically away from threshold with increasing post-spike latency. The peaked trajectories were unlikely simply to be an artefact of changing firing rate, which potentially can invalidate this method. Firstly, computer simulations confirmed that the method could accurately re-create both exponential and peaked trajectories, even in the presence of the same rate modulation as seen experimentally. Secondly, the responses of eight cells to weak single pulse intracortical microstimulation (20 microA) through a nearby electrode were measured. For each cell, including representatives of all three trajectory shapes, the modulation of response probability with post-spike latency was consistent with the trajectory computed from the spontaneous discharge. We also demonstrated that cells showed a peaked trajectory during periods with either high or low spontaneous network oscillations, so that the peaks were likely to be generated in part by single cell properties rather than exclusively by network activity. We conclude that many single neurones in motor cortex have an increased probability of firing a spike around 30 ms after the previous action potential. This could act to enhance synchronized oscillatory discharge among populations of cells at functionally relevant frequencies.
We have prepared fresh pituitary gland slices from adult and, for the first time, from newborn mice to assess modulation of secretory activity via voltage-activated Ca(2+) channels (VACCs). Currents through VACCs and membrane capacitance have been measured with the whole-cell patch-clamp technique. Melanotrophs in newborns were significantly larger than in adults. In both newborn and adult melanotrophs activation of VACCs triggered exocytosis. All pharmacologically isolated VACC types contributed equally to the secretory activity. However, the relative proportion of VACCs differed between newborns and adults. In newborn cells L-type channels dominated and, in addition, an exclusive expression of a toxin-resistant R-type-like current was found. The expression of L-type VACCs was up-regulated by the increased oestrogen levels observed in females, and was even more emphasized in the cells of pregnant females and oestrogen-treated adult male mice. We suggest a general mechanism modulating endocrine secretion in the presence of oestrogen and particularly higher sensitivity to treatments with L-type channel blockers during high oestrogen physiological states.
Spontaneously occurring neuronal oscillations constitute a hallmark of developmental networks. They have been observed in the retina, neocortex, hippocampus, thalamus, and spinal cord. In the immature hippocampus, the so-called &quot;giant depolarizing potentials&quot; (GDPs) are network-driven synaptic events generated by gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), which at this stage is depolarizing and excitatory. We have tested the hypothesis that during the first postnatal week, GDP-associated calcium signals may alter the properties of synaptic transmission at poorly developed mossy fiber (MF)-CA3 connections. We found that &quot;pairing&quot; GDPs with MF stimulation induced a persistent increase in synaptic efficacy at MF-CA3 synapses. When the interval between GDPs and MF stimulation was increased, the potentiating effect progressively declined and disappeared. The potentiation depended on activation of voltage-dependent calcium channels and calcium flux. This activity may contribute to the refinement of neuronal connectivity before the establishment of the adult neuronal circuit.
GoLoco ('Galpha(i/o)-Loco' interaction) motif proteins have recently been identified as novel GDIs (guanine nucleotide dissociation inhibitors) for heterotrimeric G-protein alpha subunits. G18 is a member of the mammalian GoLoco-motif gene family and was uncovered by analyses of human and mouse genomes for anonymous open-reading frames. The encoded G18 polypeptide is predicted to contain three 19-amino-acid GoLoco motifs, which have been shown in other proteins to bind Galpha subunits and inhibit spontaneous nucleotide release. However, the G18 protein has thus far not been characterized biochemically. Here, we have cloned and expressed the G18 protein and assessed its ability to act as a GDI. G18 is capable of simultaneously binding more than one Galpha(i1) subunit. In binding assays with the non-hydrolysable GTP analogue guanosine 5'-[gamma-thio]triphosphate, G18 exhibits GDI activity, slowing the exchange of GDP for GTP by Galpha(i1). Only the first and third GoLoco motifs within G18 are capable of interacting with Galpha subunits, and these bind with low micromolar affinity only to Galpha(i1) in the GDP-bound form, and not to Galpha(o), Galpha(q), Galpha(s) or Galpha12. Mutation of Ala-121 to aspartate in the inactive second GoLoco motif of G18, to restore the signature acidic-glutamine-arginine tripeptide that forms critical contacts with Galpha and its bound nucleotide [Kimple, Kimple, Betts, Sondek and Siderovski (2002) Nature (London) 416, 878-881], results in gain-of-function with respect to Galpha binding and GDI activity.


Much evidence indicates that emotional arousal generally improves memory and that the amygdala is responsible for this effect. The available data suggest that stress hormones and neuromodulators released in emotionally arousing conditions alter the activity of basolateral amygdala (BLA) neurons in the hours after the learning episode. In turn, these changes would facilitate synaptic plasticity elsewhere in the brain; however, the biological mechanisms underlying the facilitation of memory consolidation by the BLA remain unknown. This article focuses on data suggesting that synchronized oscillatory BLA activity promotes synaptic plasticity by facilitating interactions between neocortical and temporal lobe areas involved in declarative memory.
There are an increasing number of quantitative morphometric studies of the human cerebral cortex, especially as part of comparative investigations of major psychiatric disorders. In this context, the present study had two aims. First, to provide quantitative data regarding key neuronal morphometric parameters in the anterior cingulate cortex. Second, to compare the results of conventional Nissl staining with those observed after immunostaining with NeuN, an antibody becoming widely used as a selective neuronal marker. We stained adjacent sections of area 24b from 16 adult brains with cresyl violet or NeuN. We measured the density of pyramidal and non-pyramidal neurons, and the size and shape of pyramidal neurons, in laminae II, III, Va, Vb and VI, using two-dimensional counting methods. Strong correlations between the two modes of staining were seen for all variables. However, NeuN gave slightly higher estimates of neuronal density and size, and a more circular perikaryal shape. Brain pH was correlated with neuronal size, measured with both methods, and with neuronal shape. Age and post-mortem interval showed no correlations with any parameter. These data confirm the value of NeuN as a tool for quantitative neuronal morphometric studies in routinely processed human brain tissue. Absolute values are highly correlated between NeuN and cresyl violet stains, but cannot be interchanged. NeuN may be particularly useful when it is important to distinguish small neurons from glia, such as in cytoarchitectural studies of the cerebral cortex in depression and schizophrenia.
To understand graft rejection in cell based therapies for brain repair we have quantified IL-1beta, IL-2, IL-4, IL-10, IL-12p40, IFN-gamma and TNF-alpha mRNA levels using real-time PCR, at days 4, 14, and 42 post-transplantation, in rats engrafted with syngeneic, allogeneic, concordant and discordant xenogeneic neural tissues. In addition, in the discordant xenografts immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization were applied to detect local expression of IFN-gamma, TNF-alpha, IL-10 and TGF-beta. Allografts remained non-rejected but expressed IL-1beta, TNF-alpha and IL-4 transcripts but not IL-12p40 and IFN-gamma. Xenografts demonstrated distinct cytokine profiles that differed from syngeneic and allogeneic grafts. Non-rejected discordant xenografts contained higher levels of TNF-alpha transcripts and lower levels of IL-2 transcripts than the rejected ones at day 42. Discordant xenografts displayed a stronger and earlier expression of IL-1beta and TNF-alpha, followed by T-helper 1 and T-helper 2 associated cytokine expression. The number of cells expressing mRNA encoding TNF-alpha and TGF-beta was significantly increased over time in the discordant group. In conclusion, the immunological disparity of the implanted tissue explains survival rates and is associated with different cytokine profiles. In allografts, a chronic inflammatory reaction was detected and in xenogeneic grafts a delayed hypersensitivity like reaction may be involved in rejection.
Opioid peptides have been proven effective in reducing the sign of hyperalgesia associated with inflammation. Electroacupuncture (EA) produces antinociception via release of endogenous opioid peptides in normal rats. Moreover, intrathecal injection of dynorphin has antinociceptive effect in rats. The present study was designed to examine whether EA has effect on the thermal and mechanical hyperalgesia in rat model of complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA)-induced inflammatory pain. The results are the following: (1) single session of 100Hz EA (0.5-1.0-1.5 mA, 10 min for each intensity) at both Zusanli (ST 36) and Sanyinjiao acupoints (SP 6) significantly increased mechanical withdrawal threshold determined by von Frey filaments but not with thermal withdrawal latency that is determined by hot plate (52 +/- 0.2 degrees C); (2) 100 Hz EA applied twice a week for 4 weeks and showed a significant decrease in the mechanical hyperalgesia at the third and fourth week, with no effect on thermal hyperalgesia; (3) naloxone (20 mg kg(-1)) had the ability to reverse the inhibition of the mechanical hyperalgesia produced by a single session of EA. In conclusion, the present results indicate that a single or repetitive EA could reduce mechanical hyperalgesia, but not thermal hyperalgesia, in CFA-inflammatory pain rats, and the opioid system might be involved in these effects.

Although it is well established that both follicular assembly and the initiation of follicle growth in the mammalian ovary occur independently of pituitary hormone support, the factors controlling these processes remain poorly understood. We now report that neurotrophins (NTs) signaling via TrkB receptors are required for the growth of newly formed follicles. Both neurotrophin-4/5 (NT-4) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), the preferred TrkB ligands, are expressed in the infantile mouse ovary. Initially, they are present in oocytes, but this site of expression switches to granulosa cells after the newly assembled primordial follicles develop into growing primary follicles. Full-length kinase domain-containing TrkB receptors are expressed at low and seemingly unchanging levels in the oocytes and granulosa cells of both primordial and growing follicles. In contrast, a truncated TrkB isoform lacking the intracellular domain of the receptor is selectively expressed in oocytes, where it is targeted to the cell membrane as primary follicles initiate growth. Using gene-targeted mice lacking all TrkB isoforms, we show that the ovaries of these mice or those lacking both NT-4 and BDNF suffer a stage-selective deficiency in early follicular development that compromises the ability of follicles to grow beyond the primary stage. Proliferation of granulosa cells-required for this transition-and expression of FSH receptors (FSHR), which reflects the degree of biochemical differentiation of growing follicles, are reduced in trkB-null mice. Ovaries from these animals grafted under the kidney capsule of wild-type mice fail to sustain follicular growth and show a striking loss of follicular organization, preceded by massive oocyte death. These results indicate that TrkB receptors are required for the early growth of ovarian follicles and that they exert this function by primarily supporting oocyte development as well as providing granulosa cells with a proliferative signal that requires oocyte-somatic cell bidirectional communication. The predominance of truncated TrkB receptors in oocytes and their developmental pattern of subcellular expression suggest that a significant number of NT-4/BDNF actions in the developing mammalian ovary are mediated by these receptors.

The presence of markers for parasympathetic, sympathetic, and glutamatergic or peptidergic sensory innervation was investigated by using in vitro tracing with biotinamide, combined with immunohistochemistry, to characterise quantitatively extrinsic axons to myenteric ganglia of the guinea pig rectum. Of biotinamide-filled varicose axons, 3.6 +/- 1.3% were immunoreactive for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and 16.0 +/- 4.8% for vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT). TH and vesicular monoamine transporter (VMAT1) showed high coexistence (83-100%), indicating that varicosities lacking TH immunoreactivity also lacked VMAT1. VAChT was detectable in 77% of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT)-immunoreactive varicosities. Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) was detected in 5.3 +/- 1.6% of biotinamide-labeled varicosities, the vesicular glutamate transporter (VGluT) 1 in 2.8 +/- 0.8%, and VGluT2 in 11.3 +/- 4.2% of varicosities of extrinsic origin. Varicosities from the same axon showed consistent immunoreactivity. A novel type of nerve ending was identified, with branching, flattened lamellar endings, similar to the intraganglionic laminar endings (IGLEs) of the proximal gut. Rectal IGLEs were frequently immunoreactive for VGluT1 and VGluT2. Thus most varicose axons of extrinsic origin, which innervate rectal myenteric ganglia, lack detectable levels of immunoreactivity for TH, VMAT1, VAChT, ChAT, VGluT1/2, or CGRP, under conditions in which these markers are readily detectable in other axons. Although some unlabeled varicosities may belong to afferent axons that lack detectable CGRP or VGluT1/2 in the periphery, this suggests that a large proportion of axons do not release any of the major autonomic or sensory transmitters. We speculate that this may vary under particular circumstances, for example, inflammation or obstruction of the gut.
We used a comparative genomic approach to identify putative cis-acting regulatory sequences of the zebrafish hoxb3a and hoxb4a genes. We aligned genomic sequences spanning the clustered Hoxb1 to Hoxb5 genes from pufferfish, mice, and humans with the zebrafish hoxba and hoxbb cluster sequences. We identified multiple blocks of conserved sequences in non-coding regions within and surrounding the Hoxb3/b4 gene locus; a subset of these blocks are conserved in the zebrafish hoxbb cluster, despite loss of hoxb3/b4 genes. Overall, we find that the architecture of the Hoxb3/b4 loci and of the conserved sequence elements is very similar in teleosts and mammals. Our analyses also revealed two alternative transcripts of the zebrafish hoxb3a gene and an exon sequence unusually located 10 kb upstream of adjacent hoxb4a; an equivalent murine Hoxb3 exon has not yet been confirmed. We show that many of the Hoxb3/b4 conserved non-coding sequences correlate with functional neural enhancers previously described in the mouse. Further, within the conserved non-coding sequences we have identified binding sites for transcription factors, including Kreisler/Valentino, Krox20, Hox, and Pbx, some of which had not been previously described for the mouse. Finally, we demonstrate that the regulatory sequences of zebrafish hoxa3a are divergent with respect to the mouse ortholog Hoxa3, or the paralog hoxb3a. Despite limited conservation of regulatory sequences, zebrafish hoxa3a and hoxb3a genes share very similar expression profiles.
We determined the levels and tissue localization of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) as well as their endogenous tissue inhibitors (TIMPs) in postmortem brain tissue from 13 patients with progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) and 8 age-matched controls. MMP-9 expression was significantly increased in both the frontal cortex (p = 0.002) and substantia nigra (p = 0.003) of PSP cases as compared to controls whereas MMP-1 levels were increased in the substantia nigra (p = 0.01) but unchanged in the frontal cortex (p = 0.41). Levels of the endogenous tissue inhibitors of MMPs, TIMP-1 and TIMP-2 were significantly elevated in the substantia nigra (TIMP-1: p = 0.004, TIMP-2: p = 0.01). Levels of TIMPs were unchanged in PSP frontal cortex as compared to control cases. Together, these data show alterations of MMPs and TIMPs in the substantia nigra as well as in the frontal cortex of PSP, consistent with the possibility that alterations in MMPs/TIMPs may contribute to disease pathogenesis.
Few data exist on the effects of specific Alzheimer's disease (AD)-related mutations on cognitive function. We present neuropsychological test results in eight members of a large kindred with variant Alzheimer's disease (VarAD) due to a deletion of the presenilin 1 (PS-1) gene, encompassing exon 9. The disease was neuropathologically characterized by the presence of large, unusual, &quot;cotton wool&quot; plaques (CWP). Four surviving patients were prospectively tested, and retrospective neuropsychological data were collected from additional four deceased patients. The neuropsychological evaluation was based on tests of verbal and visual memory, abstract thinking, and visuoconstructive and spatial functions. In addition, psychiatric symptoms were evaluated. In four patients, brain glucose metabolism was examined by positron emission tomography (PET). PET showed temporoparietal hypometabolism typical of AD. In addition, variable patterns of hypometabolism (hemispherical asymmetry and occipital accentuation) were related to individual deficits of cognitive performance. However, all these early-onset patients (age range 43-63 years) with a deletion mutation of PS-1 gene showed prominent memory impairment and deficits in visuoconstructive and intellectual functions.
When recording from multi-electrode arrays, only a short period around the time of a threshold crossing is generally saved for later analysis. Then, waveforms are often sorted automatically to identify templates of spikes from individual neurons near an electrode. As spikes sum from different neurons and noise is present, some spikes may be missed and others erroneously accepted. This paper describes methods for identifying and correcting errors in recorded spike trains to recover the pattern of spikes from each neuron as faithfully as possible. These methods are complementary to, but distinct from methods to reconstruct waveforms that arise from summation of individual templates that overlap one another. Our methods are based on the local statistics of the firing rates or inter-spike intervals and the methods work best for neurons that fire regularly (small standard deviation relative to the mean interval). First, we test whether accepting more spikes, whose waveforms are close to the templates that have been identified, will increase the regularity or smoothness of the firing rates. Then, after accepting spikes that increase regularity, we test whether individual intervals are sufficiently longer (or shorter) than their neighbors to identify spikes that have been omitted (or accepted) erroneously. The methods are tested on simulated spike trains, where spikes have been inserted or deleted at random, and on spike trains recorded from multi-electrode arrays in dorsal root ganglia of cats walking on a treadmill.
We have developed a toolbox and graphic user interface, EEGLAB, running under the crossplatform MATLAB environment (The Mathworks, Inc.) for processing collections of single-trial and/or averaged EEG data of any number of channels. Available functions include EEG data, channel and event information importing, data visualization (scrolling, scalp map and dipole model plotting, plus multi-trial ERP-image plots), preprocessing (including artifact rejection, filtering, epoch selection, and averaging), independent component analysis (ICA) and time/frequency decompositions including channel and component cross-coherence supported by bootstrap statistical methods based on data resampling. EEGLAB functions are organized into three layers. Top-layer functions allow users to interact with the data through the graphic interface without needing to use MATLAB syntax. Menu options allow users to tune the behavior of EEGLAB to available memory. Middle-layer functions allow users to customize data processing using command history and interactive 'pop' functions. Experienced MATLAB users can use EEGLAB data structures and stand-alone signal processing functions to write custom and/or batch analysis scripts. Extensive function help and tutorial information are included. A 'plug-in' facility allows easy incorporation of new EEG modules into the main menu. EEGLAB is freely available (http://www.sccn.ucsd.edu/eeglab/) under the GNU public license for noncommercial use and open source development, together with sample data, user tutorial and extensive documentation.
Although vesicular retrograde transport of neurotrophins in vivo is well established, relatively little is known about the mechanisms that underlie vesicle endocytosis and formation before transport. We demonstrate that in vivo not all retrograde transport vesicles are alike, nor are they all formed using identical mechanisms. As characterized by density, there are at least two populations of vesicles present in the synaptic terminal that are retrogradely transported along the axon: those containing neurotrophins (NTs) and those resulting from synaptic vesicle recycling. Vesicles containing nerve growth factor (NGF), NT-3, or NT-4 had similar densities with peak values at about 1.05 g/ml. Synaptic-derived vesicles, labeled with anti-dopamine beta-hydroxylase (DBH), had densities with peak values at about 1.16 g/ml. We assayed the effects of pharmacologic agents in vivo on retrograde transport from the anterior eye chamber to the superior cervical ganglion. Inhibitors of phosphatidylinositol-3-OH (PI-3) kinase and actin function blocked transport of both anti-DBH and NGF, demonstrating an essential role for these molecules in retrograde transport of both vesicle types. Dynamin, a key element in synaptic vesicle recycling, was axonally transported in retrograde and anterograde directions, and compounds able to interfere with dynamin function had a differential effect on retrograde transport of NTs and anti-DBH. Okadaic acid significantly decreased retrograde axonal transport of anti-DBH and increased NGF retrograde transport. We conclude that there are both different and common proteins involved in endocytosis and targeting of retrograde transport of these two populations of vesicles.
The extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) cascade has received much attention for its possible role in neuronal synaptic plasticity. Although ERK activation has been linked to learning behaviors and activity-dependent neuronal function, much of the acquired data has relied upon pharmacological agents that suppress ERK function in both neurons and nonneuronal cells. To determine the function of neuronal ERK activity in learning, a new line of transgenic mice was generated wherein dominant-negative MEK1, the upstream obligate activator of ERK1/2, was expressed by using a neuronal-specific and pan-neuronal Talpha1 alpha-tubulin promoter element. Mice expressing this construct exhibited decreased ERK1/2 activity in the hippocampus and thus were tested for learning impairments. In a battery of control tests, including open field, rotarod, and shock threshold, the transgenic mice displayed no deficits and performed as well as their wild-type littermate counterparts. However, the mice displayed a significant impairment in contextual fear conditioning compared with the wild-type littermates. These findings indicate that the MEK1/ERK1/2 cascade within neurons plays an important role in the processes of learning and memory.
Schizophrenia is a highly heritable condition, as demonstrated in family, twin and adoption studies. Candidate genes from the dopaminergic system have long been hypothesized to be involved in the etiology of this disorder. In the present study, we investigated the genetic association between polymorphisms in the D2 and D3 dopamine receptor (DRD2, DRD3) genes and schizophrenia. We examined 90 trios from Portugal, and negative results were obtained from association studies with both Haplotype Relative Risk (HRR) and Transmission Disequilibrium Test (TDT), as well as TRANSMIT. Therefore, we conclude that neither the DRD2 nor the DRD3 gene polymorphisms investigated are associated with schizophrenia in our sample.


A unilateral lesion of the rat nigrostriatal pathway with 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) results in a decrease in the basal extracellular level of striatal glutamate, a nearly complete loss of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) immunolabeling, an increase in the density of glutamate immunogold labeling within nerve terminals making an asymmetrical synaptic contact, and an increase in the number of apomorphine-induced contralateral rotations. [Meshul et al. (1999) Neuroscience 88:1-16; Meshul and Allen (2000) Synapse 36:129-142]. In Parkinson's disease, a lesion of either the subthalamic nucleus (STN) or the motor thalamic nucleus relieves the patient of some of the motor difficulties associated with this disorder. In this rodent model, either the STN or motor thalamic nucleus was electrolytically destroyed 2 months following a unilateral 6-OHDA lesions. Following a lesion of either the STN or motor thalamic nucleus in 6-OHDA-treated rats, there was a significant decrease (40-60%) in the number of apomorphine-induced contralateral rotations compared to the 6-OHDA group. There was a significant decrease (&lt;30%) in the basal extracellular level of striatal glutamate in all of the experimental groups compared to the sham group. Following an STN and/or 6-OHDA lesion, the decrease in striatal extracellular levels was inversely associated with an increase in the density of nerve terminal glutamate immunolabeling. There was no change in nerve terminal glutamate immunogold labeling in either the motor thalamic or motor thalamic plus 6-OHDA lesion groups compared to the sham group. The decrease in the number of apomorphine-induced rotations was not due to an increase in TH immunolabeling (i.e., sprouting) within the denervated striatum. This suggests that alterations in striatal glutamate appear not to be directly involved in the STN or motor thalamic lesion-induced reduction in contralateral rotations.
Cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART) is a neuropeptide highly expressed in the hypothalamus and nucleus accumbens. Hypothalamic CART has been associated with food intake and body weight control, but in the nucleus accumbens the role of CART remains elusive. New generations of antipsychotic drugs show a good efficacy over psychotic symptoms but they induce an important weight gain. The mechanism underlying this unexpected side effect is still unknown. The present results show, for the first time, that acute and chronic treatment with the atypical neuroleptic clozapine, but not the conventional neuroleptic haloperidol, reduced the expression of CART mRNA in the shell of the nucleus accumbens. CART mRNA is colocalized with both dopamine D(2) and D(3) receptor transcripts in the nucleus accumbens shell. However, a dopamine D(3) receptor, but not D(2), antisense oligonucleotide administration reduced CART expression in this brain area. These results suggest that the dopamine D(3) receptor, but not the D(2), is involved in the control of CART expression in the nucleus accumbens and that it may participate in the modulation of CART mRNA levels by clozapine. The modulation of CART, an anorexigenic neuropeptide, in the dopamine mesolimbic pathway may potentially play a role in dysregulated food intake induced by some antipsychotic drugs.
Cocaine administration has been shown to alter glutamate transmission in numerous studies. Using quantitative electron microscopic immunogold labeling, our laboratory has previously reported that nerve terminal glutamate immunoreactivity is transiently altered following cocaine administration. The present study was undertaken to examine presynaptic nerve terminal glutamate immunoreactivity at shorter time points after withdrawal from cocaine. Animals received saline or cocaine for 7 days followed 3 days later by a cocaine or saline challenge. Most (&gt;75%) cocaine-challenged animals had a heightened locomotor response to cocaine compared to the first day of cocaine and were considered behaviorally sensitized. One day after the challenge, glutamate immunogold-labeling was quantified in nerve terminals making asymmetrical synaptic contacts within the core and shell of the nucleus accumbens and ventral tegmental area. A single dose of cocaine did not alter the density of presynaptic nerve terminal glutamate immunoreactivity in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) or ventral tegmental area (VTA). The density of nerve terminal glutamate immunoreactivity in the shell, but not the core, was significantly increased in the animals receiving repeated cocaine. In the VTA the density of nerve terminal glutamate immunoreactivity did not change in the cocaine-sensitized group, but was significantly increased in the nonsensitized group. The finding that repeated cocaine treatment increased glutamate nerve terminal immunolabeling within the nucleus accumbens shell, but not the core, supports the hypothesis that glutamate synapses in the core and shell are differentially sensitive to repeated cocaine administration. Overall, our study does not support a role for changes in presynaptic glutamate in the development of behavioral sensitization.
In this study, alpha-bisabolol, a sesquiterpene alcohol present in natural essential oil, was found to have a strong time- and dose-dependent cytotoxic effect on human and rat glioma cells. After 24 h of treatment with 2.5-3.5 microM alpha-bisabolol, the viability of these cells was reduced by 50% with respect to untreated cells. Furthermore, the viability of normal rat glial cells was not affected by treatment with alpha-bisabolol at the same concentrations as above. Glioma cells treated with high concentration of alpha-bisabolol (10 microM) resulted in a 100% cell death. Judging from hypo-G1 accumulation, poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase cleavage, and DNA ladder formation, the cytotoxicity triggered by alpha-bisabolol resulted from apoptosis induction. Moreover, the dissipation of mitochondrial-inner transmembrane potential and the release of cytochrome c from mitochondria indicated that, in these glioma cells, apoptosis occurred through an intrinsic pathway. As pointed out by the experimental results, alpha-bisabolol may be considered a novel compound able to inhibit glioma cell growth and survival.
Since the metabolic activity of neural cells is accompanied by heat release, brain temperature monitoring provides insight into behavior-associated changes in neural activity. In the present study, local temperatures were continuously recorded in several brain structures (nucleus accumbens, medial-preoptic hypothalamus and hippocampus) and a non-locomotor head muscle (musculus temporalis) in a receptive female rat during sexually arousing stimulation and subsequent copulatory behavior with an experienced male. Placement of the male into a neighboring compartment increased the female's temperature (approximately 0.8 degrees C) and additional, transient increases (approximately 0.2 degrees C) occurred when the rats were allowed to see and smell each other through a transparent barrier. Temperatures gradually increased further as the male repeatedly mounted and achieved intromissions, peaked 2-3 min after male's ejaculation (0.2-0.4 degrees C), and abruptly dropped until the male initiated a new copulatory cycle. Similar biphasic fluctuations accompanied subsequent copulatory cycles. Although both arousal-related temperature increases and biphasic fluctuations associated with copulatory cycles were evident in each recording location, brain sites showed consistently faster and stronger increases than the muscle, suggesting metabolic brain activation as the primary source of brain temperature fluctuations and a force behind associated changes in brain temperature. Robust brain hyperthermia and the generally similar pattern of phasic temperature fluctuations associated with individual events of sexual interaction found in males and females suggest widespread neural activation (motivational arousal) as a driving force underlying this cooperative motivated behavior in animals of both sexes. Females, however, showed different temperature changes in association with the initial (first mount or intromission) and final (ejaculation) events of each copulatory cycle, suggesting sex-specific differences in neural activity associated with the initiation and regulation of sexual behavior.
Recent studies have implicated Ras signalling in synaptic plasticity. In this study we have investigated a role for the low molecular weight G proteins Ras, Rap, Ra1 and Rac in long-term potentiation and depression using Clostridium Sordelli Lethal Toxin-82 (LT-82), which inactivates Ras, Rap, Ra1 and Rac, and manumycin A, a Ras inhibitor. Perfusion of hippocampal slices with LT-82 (200 ng/ml) attenuated LTP (83+/-10%, n=5, P&lt;0.01, compared with controls of 160+/-11% at 60 min post HFS, n=5). LT-82 had no effect on LTD (63+/-1% at 100 ng/ml, n=5 and 66+/-1% at 200 ng/ml, n=4, compared to controls of 56+/-6%, n=6). Manumycin A (2 microM) had no effect on LTP (162+/-2%, n=5, compared to controls of 167+/-13%, n=5), but significantly attenuated LTD (88+/-6%, n=5, P&lt;0.01, compared to controls of 63+/-9%, n=7). LT-82 (200 ng/ml) significantly increased the amplitude of the isolated NMDA-EPSP at 60 min post-drug application (240+/-40%, n=5, P&lt;0.01, compared with controls of 100+/-4%, n=5). However, manumycin A, had no significant effect on NMDAR-EPSP amplitude (92+/-2%, n=5, compared with controls). These results demonstrate an important role for Ras in LTD and a role for Rap, Ra1 and Rac in LTP.
The brain has been shown to honor the fundamental linguistic difference between semantic and syntactic information. Here we demonstrate that it even further indicates the necessity to distinguish between two differential syntactic processes: that is to say between the processing of phrase structure information necessary to build up syntactic structures on-line and verb argument structure information crucial to build up representations of who is doing what to whom. The former process is reflected in the event-related brain potentials (ERPs) as an anterior negativity followed by a late centro-parietal positivity, whereas the latter process is reflected as a centro-parietal negativity-positivity pattern. The different ERP patterns clearly suggest that the theoretically assumed difference between local syntactic structure building and argument structure processing is neurophysiologically real.
Site-specific proteolysis of the amyloid-beta precursor protein (APP) by BACE 1 and gamma-secretase, a central event in Alzheimer disease, releases a large secreted extracellular fragment (called APP(S)), peptides of 40-43 residues derived from extracellular and transmembrane sequences (Abeta), and a short intracellular fragment (APP intracellular domain) that may function as a transcriptional activator in a complex with the adaptor protein Fe65 and the nuclear protein Tip60. APP is closely related to APP-like protein (APLP) 1 and APLP2, but only APP is known to be cleaved by BACE 1 and to be involved in Alzheimer disease. We now demonstrate that similar to APP, APLP1 and APLP2 are also cleaved by BACE 1 but not by ADAM 9, another APP protease, and also transactivate nuclear Tip60 in a complex with Fe65. Paradoxically, although BACE 1 cleavage appears to be specific for APP and APLPs, their cleavage sequences exhibit no homology, and a short sequence (7 amino acids) from APP that when placed close to the membrane converts a membrane protein that is normally not cleaved by BACE 1 into a BACE 1 substrate. Our data demonstrate that APLPs and APP are processed similarly to act via the same nuclear target, suggesting that BACE 1 cleavage regulates a common function of APP and APLPs in neurons.
The deposition of alpha-synuclein and other cellular proteins in Lewy bodies in midbrain dopamine neurons is a pathological hallmark of Parkinson's disease. Nitrative and oxidative stress can induce alpha-synuclein protein aggregation, possibly initiated by the formation of stable cross-linking dimers. To determine whether enhanced dimer formation can accelerate protein aggregation and increase cellular toxicity, we have substituted cysteine for tyrosine at positions 39, 125, 133, and 136 in human wild-type (WT) alpha-synuclein, and in A53T and A30P mutant alpha-synuclein. To reduce the likelihood of cross-linking, phenylalanine was substituted for tyrosine at the same sites. We have found that overexpression of Y39C or Y125C mutant proteins leads to increased intracellular inclusions and apoptosis in a rat dopaminergic cell line (N27 cells) and in human embryonic kidney 293 cells. Expression of Y133C, Y136C, and all four Tyr-to-Phe mutations were not more cytotoxic than WT control. Exposure to oxidative stress increased Y39C and Y125C alpha-synuclein aggregation and toxicity. Dimers and oligomers were found in Triton X-100-soluble fractions from adenovirus-mediated overexpression of Y39C and Y125C in N27 cells. In contrast, WT beta-synuclein and all four Tyr-to-Cys mutant beta-synucleins did not cause protein aggregation and cell death. We conclude that cysteine substitution at critical positions in the alpha-synuclein molecule can increase dimer formation and accelerate protein aggregation and cellular toxicity of alpha-synuclein.


Chronic exposure to toxigenic molds in water-damaged buildings is an indoor environmental health problem to which escalating health and property insurance costs are raising a statewide concern in recent times. This paper reviews the structural and functional properties of mycotoxins produced by toxigenic molds and their interactive health implications with antifungal drugs. Fundamental bases of pathophysiological, neurodevelopmental, and cellular mechanisms of mycotoxic effects are evaluated. It is most likely that the interactions of mycotoxins with antifungal drugs may, at least in part, contribute to the observable persistent illnesses, antifungal drug resistance, and allergic reactions in patients exposed to chronic toxigenic molds. Safe dose level of mycotoxin in humans is not clear. Hence, the safety regulations in place at the moment remain inconclusive, precautionary, and arbitrary. Since some of the antifungal drugs are derived from molds, and since they have structural and functional groups similar to those of mycotoxins, the knowledge of their interactions are important in enhancing preventive measures.
Patients with photosensitive epilepsy are susceptible to seizures due to photoparoxysmal response (PPR). This response adversely precipitates factors that modify the functional status of the visual system. Such factors may or may not be evident superficially, but may lead to ocular defects due to trauma, hormonal imbalance, abnormal intraocular pressure (IOP), or any other reflex-inducing stimuli. The extent to which photosensitive epileptic patients suffer from PPR-related ocular defects has not been documented fully. In this investigation, ocular defects in patients with photosensitive epilepsy are studied using visual-evoked response (VER). A total of 212 photosensitive epileptic patients were studied to ascertain the magnitude and distribution of ocular defects using the changes in EEG and visual-evoked potential (VEP); 51% of the patients were female, the age range was 1-46 years. The major ocular defects and complications found were visual field defects, optic nerve abnormalities, nystagmus, cataracts, amblyopia, and migraine. These findings were analyzed according to age and sex. The relationship between the ocular abnormalities and the interpretations of the changes in the characteristics of the VEP indicated that optic-related atrophies, visual defects, optic neuritis, chiasmal compression, nystagmus, migraine headache, cataracts, and amblyopia were prevalent in photosensitive epileptic patients at varying degrees. The results showed that although ocular defects in photosensitive epilepsy may not be obvious differentially, VEP can be used in their diagnosis, contrary to earlier studies reporting that VEP is not of much value in epilepsy diagnosis.
Most commercial laser-scanning imaging systems used for confocal fluorescence microscopy can be readily adapted for use with two-photon fluorescence excitation. We report here on the details of the conversion of the Nikon C1 (product released November 2001) with two channels of nondescanned detection of two-photon-excited fluorescence. One of the goals of the design was to utilize off-the-shelf components as much as possible to minimize the use of custom machining and electronics assembly. We also give some initial characterization of the imaging properties of the system.
EphA tyrosine kinases are thought to act as topographically specific receptors in the well-characterized projection map from the retina to the tectum. Here, we describe a loss-of-function analysis of EphA receptors in retinotectal mapping. Expressing patches of a cytoplasmically truncated EphA3 receptor in chick retina caused temporal axons to have reduced responsiveness to posterior tectal repellent activity in vitro and to shift more posteriorly within the map in vivo. A gene disruption of mouse EphA5, replacing the intracellular domain with beta-galactosidase, reduced in vitro responsiveness of temporal axons to posterior target membranes. It also caused map abnormalities in vivo, with temporal axons shifted posteriorly and nasal axons anteriorly, but with the entire target still filled by retinal axons. The anterior shift of nasal axons was not accompanied by increased responsiveness to tectal repellent activity, in contrast to the comparable anterior shift in ephrin-A knock-outs, helping to resolve a previous ambiguity in interpreting the ephrin gene knock-outs. The results show the functional requirement for endogenous EphA receptors in retinotectal mapping, show that the receptor intracellular domain is required for a forward signaling response to topographic cues, and provide new evidence for a role of axon competition in topographic mapping.
It is argued that the hippocampus contributes to contextual fear conditioning by supporting the acquisition of a conjunctive memory representation of context, which associates with shock. This function was examined by studying the context pre-exposure facilitation effect (CPFE). A rat that is shocked immediately after being placed into a context subsequently displays almost no fear of that context. However, if it is pre-exposed to the context the day before immediate shock, it displays significant freezing to that context. By using 5-aminomethyl-3-hydroxysoxazole to temporarily inactivate the dorsal hippocampus (DH) at three different phases of the procedure, which produces the CPFE, we show that the hippocampus is necessary for the following: (1) acquisition of the context memory, (2) retrieval of this memory at the time of immediate shock, and (3) retrieval of the context-shock memory at the time of testing. In contrast, inactivating the DH before a standard contextual shock experience had no effect on contextual fear conditioning. These results support the view that two processes can support contextual fear conditioning: (1) conditioning to the conjunctive representation, which depends on the hippocampus, and (2) conditioning to the features that make up the context, which does not.
Tyrosine receptor kinase B (TrkB)-mediated signaling modulates synaptic structure and strength in hippocampal and other neurons, but the underlying mechanisms are poorly understood. Full-length and truncated TrkB are diffusely distributed throughout the dendrites and soma of rat hippocampal neurons grown in vitro. Manipulation of TrkB-mediated signaling resulted in dramatic changes in the number and synaptic localization of postsynaptic NMDA receptor (NMDAR) and GABA(A) receptor (GABA(A)R) clusters. BDNF treatment resulted in an increase in the number of NMDAR and GABA(A)R clusters and increased the proportion of clusters apposed to presynaptic terminals. Downregulation of TrkB signaling resulted in a decrease in receptor cluster number and synaptic localization. Examination of the time course of the effects of BDNF on receptor clusters showed that the increase in GABA(A)R clusters preceded the increase in NMDAR clusters by at least 12 hr. Moreover, the TrkB-mediated effects on NMDAR clusters were dependent on GABA(A)R activation. Although TTX, APV, and CNQX treatment had no effect, blockade of GABA(A)Rs with bicuculline abolished the BDNF-mediated increase in NMDAR cluster number and synaptic localization. In contrast, application of exogenous GABA prevented the decrease in NMDAR clusters induced by BDNF scavenging. Together, these results suggest that TrkB-mediated signaling modulates the clustering of postsynaptic GABA(A)Rs and that receptor activity is required for a subsequent upregulation of NMDAR clusters. Therefore, TrkB-mediated effects on postsynaptic neurotransmitter clusters may be part of a mechanism that balances inhibitory and excitatory synaptic transmission in developing neural circuits.
A recent study has shown that prolonged electrical stimulation of the ventral premotor cortex can evoke complex defensive movements. Moreover, neurons in this region show activity correlated with the vigour of an induced defensive reaction. These results support the idea that this cortical region encodes goal-related actions.
Modulatory inputs alter neural network activity, which, for instance, helps explain why mood affects cognition. Some neurons modulate their own networks. This 'intrinsic' modulatory feedback implies that a network's history could partially determine its present activity.

The authors studied the association of an exon 4 (E4*epsilon2/3/4) and three promoter polymorphisms of APOE with disease course and severity stratified by gender in 221 patients with multiple sclerosis from two overlapping population-based prevalence cohorts. Women carriers of the E4*epsilon2 allele took longer to attain an Expanded Disability Status Scale score of 6 (p = 0.015) and had more favorable ranked severity scores than noncarriers (p = 0.009). There was no association in men. Alleles epsilon3 or epsilon4 and promoter polymorphisms were not associated with disease course or severity.
Various interpretations of the indications for carotid endarterectomy exist. Physician knowledge as it relates to the decision to proceed or recommend carotid endarterectomy was investigated, using disaggregate discrete choice analysis. Canadian neurologists, neurosurgeons, vascular surgeons, and internists were surveyed. The degree of stenosis was most important, followed by symptoms, comorbid illness, and arterial imaging modality. No differences existed by specialty. Canadian physicians in four specialties are knowledgeable about results of randomized clinical trials for carotid endarterectomy.

Fragile X syndrome (fraX) is the most common known cause of inherited developmental disability. fraX is associated with a CGG expansion in the FMR1 gene on the long arm of the X chromosome. Behavioral deficits, including problems with impulse control and distractibility, are common in fraX. We used functional brain imaging with a Go/NoGo task to examine the neural substrates of response inhibition in females with fraX (ages 10-22) and age- and gender-matched typically developing subjects. Although subjects with fraX had significantly lower IQ scores, as a group their performance on the Go/NoGo task was equivalent to that of the typically developing group. However, females with fraX showed abnormal activation patterns in several cortical and subcortical regions, with significantly reduced activation in the supplementary motor area, anterior cingulate and midcingulate cortex, basal ganglia, and hippocampus. An important finding of our study is that neural responses in the right ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (PFC) and the left and right striatum were correlated with the level of FMR1 gene expression. Our findings support the hypothesis that frontostriatal regions typically associated with response inhibition are dysfunctional in females with fraX. In addition to task-related activation deficits, reduced levels of &quot;deactivation&quot; were observed in the ventromedial PFC, and, furthermore, these reductions were correlated with the level of FMR1 gene expression. The ventromedial PFC is a key node in a &quot;default mode&quot; network that monitors mental and physiological states; we suggest that self-monitoring processes may be aberrant in fraX.
Big brown bats (Eptesicus fuscus) emit wideband, frequency-modulated biosonar sounds and perceive the distance to objects from the delay of echoes. Bats remember delays and patterns of delay from one broadcast to the next, and they may rely on delays to perceive target scenes. While emitting a series of broadcasts, they can detect very small changes in delay based on their estimates of delay for successive echoes, which are derived from an auditory time/frequency representation of frequency-modulated sounds. To understand how bats perceive objects, we need to know how information distributed across the time/frequency surface is brought together to estimate delay. To assess this transformation, we measured how alteration of the frequency content of echoes affects the sharpness of the bat's delay estimates from the distribution of errors in a psychophysical task for detecting changes in delay. For unrestricted echo frequency content and high echo signal-to-noise ratio, bats can detect extremely small changes in delay of about 10 ns. When echo bandwidth is restricted by filtering out low or high frequencies, the bat's delay acuity declines in relation to the reciprocal of relative echo bandwidth, expressed as Q, which also is the relative width of the target impulse response in cycles rather than time. This normalized-time dimension may be efficient for target classification if it leads to target shape being displayed independent of size. This relation may originate from cochlear transduction by parallel frequency channels with active amplification, which creates the auditory time/frequency representation itself.
The novel antidepressant mirtazapine has been shown to increase extracellular noradrenaline and dopamine in the medial prefrontal cortex. Our previous studies indicate that extracellular dopamine in the cerebral cortex originates largely from noradrenergic terminals, such release being controlled by alpha(2)-adrenoceptors. Because mirtazapine inhibits alpha(2)-adrenoceptors, the possibility that it might corelease dopamine and noradrenaline was investigated. By means of microdialysis, the effect of mirtazapine on extracellular dopamine, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) and noradrenaline in the medial prefrontal cortex, densely innervated by dopaminergic and noradrenergic neurons, and in the occipital cortex, receiving equal noradrenergic but scarce dopaminergic projections, was compared. Basal extracellular concentration of noradrenaline was similar in both cortices, while dopamine in the occipital cortex was only about 50% lower than in the medial prefrontal cortex, reflecting noradrenergic rather than dopaminergic projections. The intraperitoneal (i.p.) administration of mirtazapine (5 and 10 mg/kg) increased extracellular dopamine, DOPAC and noradrenaline to approximately the same extent in both cortices, an effect totally suppressed by the alpha(2)-adrenoceptors agonist clonidine (0.15 mg/kg, i.p.). To exclude the possibility that mirtazapine-induced increase in dopamine might result from reduced dopamine removal from extracellular space, noradrenaline and dopamine uptake mechanisms were blocked by perfusing 100 microM desipramine into either cortex. The combined i.p. administration of mirtazapine (5 mg/kg) and the local perfusion of desipramine produced an additional increase in extracellular dopamine, DOPAC and noradrenaline in the medial prefrontal cortex and occipital cortex compared with the increase produced by either drug given alone. The results suggest that mirtazapine by inhibiting alpha(2)-adrenoceptors produces a corelease of noradrenaline and dopamine from noradrenergic terminals in the cerebral cortex.
The muscarinic toxin MT7 is the most selective ligand for the muscarinic M(1) receptors. Previous studies have shown that the toxin interacts with the antagonist-receptor complex and slows the antagonist dissociation rate, possibly by binding to an allosteric site and impeding the access to and egress from the orthosteric binding pocket. In the present study, we investigated the action of MT7 on agonist-occupied receptors in functional and radioligand binding assays of the cloned human muscarinic M(1) receptor expressed in Chinese hamster ovary cells. In time-course experiments, the addition of MT7 rapidly blocked the acetylcholine-stimulated guanosine-5'-O-(3-[(35)S]thio)triphosphate binding to membrane G proteins. Similarly, in acetylcholine-treated cells MT7 completely stopped the agonist-stimulated [(3)H]inositol phosphate accumulation. In dissociation experiments using membranes pre-equilibrated with [(3)H]acetylcholine, the addition of MT7 increased the rate of radioligand dissociation. The data indicate that MT7, while partially stabilizing the antagonist-receptor complex, effectively destabilizes the agonist-occupied muscarinic M(1) receptors.
Developing neurons depend on many target-derived signals. One of these signals is the neurotrophin brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). Exogenous application of BDNF in vitro and in vivo rescues a population of lumbar motoneurons from programmed cell death. Given that BDNF does not rescue all motoneurons and that motoneurons differ in trophic factor receptor expression, subpopulations of motoneurons may have different sensitivities to the factor. These differences may be reflected in distinct target muscles specialized to produce different protein concentrations, or muscles may contain equal amounts of the factor and receptor expression determines motoneuron responsiveness. By using a sensitive electrochemiluminescent immunoassay (ECLIA), we measured normal developmental changes in BDNF protein concentration in anatomically and functionally distinct chick embryonic thigh muscles from E6 to E18. We found that there were no significant differences in BDNF protein concentration between muscles classified according to function (fast vs. slow) or anatomical position (flexor vs. extensor) and that the quantity of BDNF in the target did not appear to be activity dependent. These results suggest that, during development, the differences in the response of motoneurons to BDNF are not due to the anatomical or functional diversity of muscle targets. J. Comp. Neurol. 470:330-337, 2004.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) neurons abundantly innervate the hypothalamus, where NPY is involved in the regulation of a broad range of homeostatic functions. In the present work we studied NPY Y2 and Y5 receptor (R) gene expression in the mouse hypothalamus by using immunohistochemical detection of beta-galactosidase (beta-gal), a gene reporter molecule for Y2R and Y5R in Y2R-knockout (KO) and Y5R-KO mice, respectively. With this approach, cells normally expressing Y2R or Y5R are immunopositive for beta-gal. In the hypothalamus of the Y2R-KO mouse, beta-gal immunoreactivity (-ir) was found in numerous neurons of the medial preoptic nucleus as well as in the lateral anterior, periventricular, dorsomedial, tuberal, perifornical, and arcuate nuclei. Most of the dopaminergic neurons in the A13 dorsal hypothalamic group were beta-gal positive, whereas other hypothalamic dopaminergic neurons rarely displayed beta-gal-ir. In the arcuate nucleus, most of the beta-gal-positive neurons expressed NPY, but colocalizations with beta-endorphin were also found; in the tuberal and perifornical nuclei, many beta-gal-positive neurons contained nitric oxide synthase. beta-Gal-ir was also found in other forebrain regions of the Y2R-KO mouse, including the amygdala, thalamic nuclei, hippocampal CA3 area, and cortex. In the hypothalamus of the Y5R-KO mouse, beta-gal-positive neurons were found mainly in the arcuate nucleus and contained beta-endorphin. The present data show that Y2R and Y5R are expressed in distinct groups of hypothalamic neurons. High levels of Y2R expression in the preoptic nuclei suggest an involvement of Y2R in the regulation of reproductive behavior, whereas Y2R expression in the arcuate, dorsomedial, and perifornical nuclei may be relevant to feeding and body weight control. The finding that A13 dopaminergic neurons express Y2R suggests a new mechanism putatively involved in the central control of feeding, in which NPY can modulate dopamine secretion. The distribution of Y5R expression supports earlier evidence for involvement of this receptor in control of feeding and body weight via NPY's action on proopiomelanocortin-expressing neurons. J. Comp. Neurol. 470:256-265, 2004.
Bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) is broadly used in neuroscience to study embryonic development and adult neurogenesis. The potential toxicity of this halogenated pyrimidine analogue is frequently neglected. In this study, we administered BrdU in small doses by the progressively delayed cumulative labeling method to immunocytochemically tag different cerebellar cell types with antibodies to specific markers and BrdU in the same section. The well-known structure of the cerebellum made it possible to ascertain several toxic effects of the treatment. Time-pregnant rats were given five or six injections of 5 or 6 mg of BrdU ( approximately 12-20 mg/kg) at 8-hour intervals over 2 successive days between day 11 and 21 of pregnancy (E11-E12 to E20-E21), and the adult progeny was processed by immunocytochemistry. We demonstrate that this treatment effectively labeled distinct cerebellar cell populations but produced striking defects in the proliferation, migration, and settling of the Purkinje cells; reduced the size of the cerebellar cortex and nuclei; produced defects in the patterning of foliation; and also affected litter size, body weight, and mortality of the offspring. The observed toxic effects were consistent within individual treatment groups but varied between different treatment groups. Treatment with BrdU at the peak of neurogenesis of cerebellar projection neurons (E14) produced the most severe malformations. We observed no overt effects on the timing of neurogenesis for cerebellar neurons and glia across experimental groups. In conclusion, BrdU is a useful tool to study neural development, but its cytotoxicity represents a serious pitfall particularly when multiple doses are used to label cells.
Cerebrovascular diseases are an important cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide. Endovascular treatment has emerged as a minimally invasive approach to treat cerebrovascular diseases and possibly intracranial neoplasms. Practice patterns for selection of patients for endovascular treatment are continuously being modified on the basis of new information derived from clinical studies. In this review, I discuss the various endovascular treatments for diseases such as ischaemic stroke, carotid and intracranial stenosis, intracranial aneurysms, arteriovenous malformations, malignant gliomas, and meningiomas.
The functional identity of an olfactory sensory neuron is defined by its expression of one odorant receptor from a large multigene family. The complexity of this process has led to speculation that DNA rearrangements are used to limit the expression of one receptor gene per cell. However, a recent report in Nature directly rules out irreversible DNA rearrangements as a mechanism for odorant receptor gene choice.
Dopaminergic neurotransmission is fine-tuned by the rate of removal of dopamine (DA) from the extracellular space via the Na(+)/Cl(-)-dependent DA transporter (DAT). DAT is a target of psychostimulants such as amphetamine (AMPH) and cocaine. Previously, we reported that AMPH redistributes the human DAT away from the cell surface. This process was associated with a reduction in transport capacity. This loss of transport capacity may result either from a modification of the function of DAT that is independent of its cell surface redistribution and/or from a reduction in the number of active transporters at the plasma membrane that results from DAT trafficking. To discriminate between these possibilities, we stably transfected HEK-293 cells with a yellow fluorescent protein (YFP)-tagged human DAT (hDAT cells). In hDAT cells, acute exposure to AMPH induced a time-dependent loss of hDAT activity. By coupling confocal imaging with patch-clamp whole-cell recordings, we have demonstrated for the first time that the loss of AMPH-induced hDAT activity temporally parallels the accumulation of intracellular hDAT. In addition, presteady-state current analysis revealed a cocaine-sensitive, voltage-dependent capacitance current that correlated with the level of transporter membrane expression and in turn served to monitor the AMPH-induced trafficking of hDAT. We found that the decrease in hDAT cell surface expression induced by AMPH was not paralleled by changes in the ability of the single transporter to carry charges. Quasi-stationary noise analysis of the AMPH-induced hDAT currents revealed that the unitary transporter current remained unaltered during the loss of hDAT membrane expression. Taken together, these data strongly suggest that the AMPH-induced reduction of hDAT transport capacity results from the removal of active hDAT from the plasma membrane.


Migraine is a common, disabling, multifactorial, episodic neurovascular disorder of unknown etiology. Familial hemiplegic migraine type 1 (FHM-1) is a Mendelian subtype of migraine with aura that is caused by missense mutations in the CACNA1A gene that encodes the alpha(1) subunit of neuronal Ca(v)2.1 Ca(2+) channels. We generated a knockin mouse model carrying the human pure FHM-1 R192Q mutation and found multiple gain-of-function effects. These include increased Ca(v)2.1 current density in cerebellar neurons, enhanced neurotransmission at the neuromuscular junction, and, in the intact animal, a reduced threshold and increased velocity of cortical spreading depression (CSD; the likely mechanism for the migraine aura). Our data show that the increased susceptibility for CSD and aura in migraine may be due to cortical hyperexcitability. The R192Q FHM-1 mouse is a promising animal model to study migraine mechanisms and treatments.
A recent finding indicates that inducible knockout of the NR1 NMDA receptor subunit promotes the loss of fear memories formed months earlier. One view is that posttraining NMDA receptor activation protects modified synapses from &quot;synaptic drift.&quot; An alternative view is that NMDA receptors help maintain appropriate connectivity in memory-encoding networks.
Recently, endoplasmic reticulum (ER) dysfunction has been implicated in neuronal death in patients with Alzheimer's disease. Treatment of human neuroblastoma cells with ER stress inducers causes apoptotic death. We confirmed that ER stress inducers specifically targeted the ER to cause apoptotic morphological changes. We also found that caspase-3, and not caspase-9 (a known mitochondrial apoptotic mediator), was mainly activated by ER stress. We generated the neuroblastoma cells that stably expressed caspase-12 and analyzed its influence on caspase-3 activation and vulnerability to ER stress. Cells expressing caspase-12 were more vulnerable to ER stress than cells expressing the empty vector, concomitant with increased activation of caspase-3. These findings suggested that activation of ER-resident caspase-12 indirectly activates cytoplasmic caspase-3 and might be important in ER stress-induced neuronal apoptosis.
We assessed the effects of FK506 administration on regeneration after 5-mm gap repair with a collagen guide seeded with syngeneic Schwann cells in the rat sciatic nerve. Functional reinnervation was evaluated by non-invasive methods to determine recovery of motor and sensory functions in the hindpaw over 4 months postoperation. Histological analysis of the regenerated nerves was performed at the end of follow-up. Treatment with FK506 (1 mg/kg for the first 2 months) resulted in significant improvement of the onset and the degree of reinnervation. The numbers of myelinated fibers in the distal regenerated nerve were similar between treated and control groups. In conclusion, FK506 improves functional recovery after repair with collagen guides seeded with syngeneic Schwann cells.
The activation of inhibitory synapses typically suppresses the generation of action potentials by hyperpolarizing the membrane of postsynaptic cells. In contrast to such conventional action of inhibitory synapses, we report here the ionic mechanism through which hyperpolarizing synapses trigger long-lasting discharges of action potentials that persist up to several tens of seconds. By using extracellular and intracellular recordings in slice preparations, we demonstrate that the activation of synaptic input from the limbic forebrain generates transient hyperpolarizing postsynaptic potentials in neurons of the medial part of the lateral habenular nucleus of the epithalamus. The synaptic hyperpolarization then sets off the coordinated activation of a distinct set of membrane ion channels and intracellular Ca2+ mobilization by internal stores. The activation of these cellular events in distinct temporal order drives a persistent depolarization of habenular cells and promotes long-lasting discharges of tonic action potentials. The cells in the medial division of the lateral habenula project to dopamine and serotonin cells in the midbrain. We suggest that these habenular cells, by generating persistent action potentials in response to a transient increase in the activity of the limbic forebrain, may contribute to the regulation of the serotonergic and dopaminergic activity in the brain.
Neurogenesis from endogenous progenitor cells in the adult forebrain ventricular wall may be induced by the local viral overexpression of cognate neuronal differentiation agents, in particular BDNF. Here, we show that the overexpression of noggin, by acting to inhibit glial differentiation by subependymal progenitor cells, can potentiate adenoviral BDNF-mediated recruitment of new neurons to the adult rat neostriatum. The new neurons survive at least 2 months after their genesis in the subependymal zone and are recruited primarily as GABAergic DARPP-32+ medium spiny neurons in the caudate-putamen. The new medium spiny neurons successfully project to the globus pallidus, their usual developmental target, extending processes over several millimeters of the normal adult striatum. Thus, concurrent suppression of subependymal glial differentiation and promotion of neuronal differentiation can mobilize endogenous subependymal progenitor cells to achieve substantial neuronal addition to otherwise non-neurogenic regions of the adult brain.
Spatial stereoresolution (the finest detectable modulation of binocular disparity) is much poorer than luminance resolution (finest detectable luminance variation). In a series of psychophysical experiments, we examined four factors that could cause low stereoresolution: (1) the sampling properties of the stimulus, (2) the disparity gradient limit, (3) low-pass spatial filtering by mechanisms early in the visual process, and (4) the method by which binocular matches are computed. Our experimental results reveal the contributions of the first three factors. A theoretical analysis of binocular matching by interocular correlation reveals the contribution of the fourth: the highest attainable stereoresolution may be limited by (1) the smallest useful correlation window in the visual system, and (2) a matching process that estimates the disparity of image patches and assumes that disparity is constant across the patch. Both properties are observed in disparity-selective neurons in area V1 of the primate (Nienborg et al., 2004).
The present study examined the effects of glucocorticoid administration on emotional memory and on corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) mRNA expression in the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA) and the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN). This was tested by administering repeated corticosterone (CORT) within a contextual fear conditioning paradigm. Rats received 2.5 mg/kg (s.c.) CORT or placebo twice a day for five and a half days and, 2 h after the last injection, rats were given one-trial contextual fear conditioning. When tested for retention of conditioned fear 6 days later, the CORT-treated rats displayed more fear-conditioned freezing in the retention test than vehicle-treated rats, which was not accounted for by an increase in footshock responsivity nor elevated plasma CORT. Another group of rats was fear conditioned prior to CORT administration, followed 24 h later by the five and a half days of CORT, and tested 6 days later; conditioned fear was not enhanced in these rats. Finally, CORT administration produced an increase of CRH mRNA in the CeA and a decrease in the PVN. The data suggest that repeated administration of CORT given before fear conditioning facilitates the acquisition of emotional memory, whereas CORT given after consolidation does not increase emotional memory.
Cardiovascular fitness is thought to offset declines in cognitive performance, but little is known about the cortical mechanisms that underlie these changes in humans. Research using animal models shows that aerobic training increases cortical capillary supplies, the number of synaptic connections, and the development of new neurons. The end result is a brain that is more efficient, plastic, and adaptive, which translates into better performance in aging animals. Here, in two separate experiments, we demonstrate for the first time to our knowledge, in humans that increases in cardiovascular fitness results in increased functioning of key aspects of the attentional network of the brain during a cognitively challenging task. Specifically, highly fit (Study 1) or aerobically trained (Study 2) persons show greater task-related activity in regions of the prefrontal and parietal cortices that are involved in spatial selection and inhibitory functioning, when compared with low-fit (Study 1) or nonaerobic control (Study 2) participants. Additionally, in both studies there exist groupwise differences in activation of the anterior cingulate cortex, which is thought to monitor for conflict in the attentional system, and signal the need for adaptation in the attentional network. These data suggest that increased cardiovascular fitness can affect improvements in the plasticity of the aging human brain, and may serve to reduce both biological and cognitive senescence in humans.


Holoprosencephaly (HPE) is caused by the impaired cleavage of the embryonic prosencephalon, and in the severest type, alobar HPE, the normally bilateral diencephalon and basal ganglia are fused and tend to incorporate into the upper brainstem. The detailed neuropathological features of HPE remain to be elucidated, although disturbed regulation in body temperature and electrolyte balance are frequently observed. We immunohistologically examined the expression of hypothalamic hormones, neurotransmitters, calcium-binding proteins and neuropeptides in six female autopsy cases of alobar HPE. Eight age-matched controls formed the comparative basis for the immunoreactivity of these markers during the fetal period. Neurons immunoreactive for either vasopressin or orexin-A were noted in the fused diencephalon in five HPE cases, and colocalization of vasopressin and tyrosine hydroxylase occurred in HPE cases surviving more than 6 months. Tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive fibers and neurons were observed in the fused diencephalon and basal ganglia in all the six cases. Parvalbumin-immunoreactive structures were identified in the fused diencephalon and basal ganglia in five cases, and the apparent red nucleus was identified by anti-parvalbumin immunostaining in two cases aged more than 1 year. Five cases demonstrated substance P-immunoreactive structures in the diencephalon, and a substantia nigra-like structure in the midbrain was visualized by immunostainings for both tyrosine hydroxylase and substance P in four cases. Only two cases aged more than 1 year had immunoreactivity for methionine-enkephalin in the basal ganglia and substantia nigra. These data suggest that the fused diencephalon and basal ganglia exhibited functional developments in alobar HPE, and the disturbed expression of the markers may be involved in hypothalamic and/or motor abnormalities in patients.
The aim of this study was to assess blood free naltrexone and 6-beta-naltrexol levels with time following treatment with sequential sustained-release naltrexone preparations. Data were collected from blood samples analysed independently for naltrexone and 6-beta-naltrexol and from clinical record review at a community heroin treatment clinic in Perth, Western Australia. Five patients received sequential 3.4 g (3.49+/-0.01 g and 3.36+/-0.05 g, respectively) naltrexone implants. The second implant was received on average within 131.2+/-15.67 days of the first implant. The mean length of follow-up was 307.2+/-18.28 days of the first implant. Blood naltrexone levels have the potential to remain above 2 and 1 ng/ml for a total of 390 and 524 days, respectively, and blood 6-beta-naltrexol was maintained above 10 ng/ml for a total of 222 days following insertion of these implants. No patient relapsed to dependent heroin use during the implant coverage period while blood naltrexone concentrations were above 2 ng/ml. Results indicate that blood naltrexone and 6-beta-naltrexol levels can be maintained above therapeutic levels for prolonged periods following use of sequential 3.4 g naltrexone implants. These extended periods of coverage will offer significant benefits for managing the heroin-dependent patient.
The aim of this study was to profile and compare blood naltrexone and 6-beta-naltrexol levels with time following treatment with two sustained-release naltrexone preparations produced by GoMedical Industries, Australia at a community heroin treatment clinic in Perth, Western Australia. A sample of 10 patients who each received a 1.7 g naltrexone implant were compared to 24 patients who each received a 3.4 g naltrexone implant as treatment for heroin dependence. Blood naltrexone levels following treatment with the 1.7 g naltrexone implant remained above 2 and 1 ng/ml for approximately 90 and 136 days, respectively. Use of the 3.4 g naltrexone implant extended the period of coverage to approximately 297 (1 ng/ml) or 188 (2 ng/ml) days. Blood 6-beta-naltrexol levels remained above 10 ng/ml for approximately 18 and 83 days, respectively, following use of the 1.7 g and 3.4 g naltrexone implants. The current study data indicate that blood naltrexone and 6-beta-naltrexol levels following treatment with either the 1.7 g or 3.4 g naltrexone implant are greater than those reported in other published data on other sustained-release naltrexone preparations. Furthermore, duration of blood naltrexone and 6-beta-naltrexol levels achieved following use of the 3.4 g implant were superior to those achieved with the 1.7 g naltrexone implant, with naltrexone blood levels maintained above 2 ng/ml for a period of approximately 6.3 months compared to 3 months, respectively. The implications of this in managing the heroin-dependent patient, especially those who find it difficult to shift away from dependent use patterns, are discussed.





The Molar Tooth Sign (MTS) is defined by an abnormally deep interpeduncular fossa; elongated, thick, and mal-oriented superior cerebellar peduncles; and absent or hypoplastic cerebellar vermis that together give the appearance of a &quot;molar tooth&quot; on axial brain MRI through the junction of the midbrain and hindbrain (isthmus region). It was first described in Joubert syndrome (JS) where it is present in the vast majority of patients with this diagnosis. We previously showed that the MTS is a component of several other syndromes, including Dekaban-Arima (DAS), Senior-Lken, and COACH (cerebellar vermis hypoplasia (CVH), oligophrenia, ataxia, coloboma, and hepatic fibrosis). Here we present evidence that the MTS is seen together with polymicrogyria, Vradi-Papp syndrome (Orofaciodigital VI (OFD VI)), and a new syndrome with encephalocele and cortical renal cysts. We also present a new patient with COACH syndrome plus the MTS. We propose that the MTS is found in multiple distinct clinical syndromes that may share common developmental mechanisms. Proper classification of patients with these variants of the MTS will be essential for localization and identification of mutant genes.

L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-dopa) is not metabolized within human epidermal Langerhans cells (LC); yet they can take up substantial amounts of this amino acid which subsequently can be released into the extracellular space. We recently reported that human epidermal energy metabolism is predominantly anaerobic and that the influx mechanism is a unidirectional L-dopa/proton counter-transport system and now we describe conditions for the mediated transport of L-dopa out of the LC. It is demonstrated that certain amino acids and one dipeptide can effectively trigger the efflux of L-dopa taken up by the LC.Thus, alpha-methyl-dopa (alpha-m-dopa), D-dopa and the dipeptide, met-ala at the outside of the plasma membrane stimulated the efflux of L-dopa from L-dopa loaded LC. Similar effects were achieved by a variety of other amino acids in the extracellular fluid while some other amino acids were inactive. The time required for 50% D-methionine-induced exodus of L-dopa from L-dopa loaded LC was in the range of 5-7 min and a complete exodus of L-dopa was attained at about 20 min of incubation. This dislocation of L-dopa to the extracellular fluid is interpreted as an expression of trans-stimulation. In the case of alpha-m-dopa, D-dopa and met-ala, which admittedly were not able to penetrate the plasma membrane of LC, the concept of trans-stimulation was given a new purport, since none of them were able to participate in an exchange reaction. Finally, it could be concluded that L-dopa escaped by a route different from the one responsible for L-dopa uptake in LC.Thus, while the influx of L-dopa supports extrusion of protons deriving from anaerobic glycolysis in the LC, L-dopa efflux can provide the cells with useful amino acids in an energy-saving way, altogether a remarkable biological process. From this follows that L-dopa has a biological function of its own, besides being a precursor in the catecholamine and pigment syntheses.
Dominant-negative mouse prion protein (PrP) with a lysine mutation at codon 218 (Q218K) is known to inhibit prion replication. In order to gain further mechanistic insight into such dominant negative inhibition, non-glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchored recombinant PrP with Q218K (rPrP-Q218K) was investigated. When applied into scrapie-infected mouse neuroblastoma (ScN2a) cells, rPrP-Q218K but not wild-type rPrP (rPrP-WT) exclusively inhibited abnormal protease-resistant pathogenic isoform (PrPSc) replication without reducing the viability of the cells. It was even more efficient than quinacrine, which has already been prescribed for sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) patients; 50% effective concentration (EC50) = 0.20 microM, 99% effective concentration (EC99) = 0.86 microM vs. EC50 = 0.45 microM, EC99 = 1.5 microM. Besides, no apparent cell damage was observed at the concentration of up to 4.3 microM (100 micrograms/ml). In combination treatment with 0.43 microM (10 micrograms/ml) of rPrP-Q218K, EC99 of quinacrine was decreased from 1.5 microM to 0.5 microM, and the cell viability was recovered from 50% to over 90% as inversely proportional to the concentration of quinacrine. Such combination could alleviate the side effects of quinacrine by reducing its effective concentration without changing or even acceleration the inhibition efficacy. Since homogeneous, high-quality rPrPs could be easily prepared from Escherichia coli in large quantities, rPrP-Q218K is a good candidate for a prion replication antagonist.

Literature findings on astrogliosis of the spinal cord and of the cortex of sporadic (SALS) and familial (FALS) cases of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and of SOD1 transgenic mice are analysed and compared with those of 50 autopsied personal cases of ALS. In the spinal cord, astrogliosis is definitely evident in the anterior horns and much less in anterior and lateral funiculi and dorsal horns. In the cortex reactive astrocytes show a distribution similar to that of ageing brains and in ischaemia and cannot be directly put in relation with neuronal loss. In the spinal cord of transgenic mice the evidence suggests a primary astrocytic response. The findings in human ALS, especially those of the cortex, are consistent with this hypothesis.
Ubiquitinated inclusions are a constant feature of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). It has been hypothesised that these inclusions reflect overload or failure of the ubiquitin-proteasome system, and that this failure contributes to the degeneration of motor neurons. In the present study we have examined the effect of low concentrations of proteasome inhibitors on protein aggregation and viability of neurons in organotypical spinal cord cultures. We found a dose-dependent degeneration of neurons after a one-week exposure to the proteasome inhibitors lactacystin and epoxomicin. Neuronal degeneration was associated with an increase in poly-ubiquitination, consistent with failure of the ubiquitin-proteasome system. Proteasome inhibition caused degeneration of both motor neurons and interneurons, and no difference in survival between motor neurons and interneurons was observed. Since protein aggregation may particularly play a role in ALS patients with superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) mutations, we have compared the effect of proteasome inhibition between spinal cord cultures from non-transgenic and SOD1(G93A) transgenic mice. There was no difference between the viability of motor neurons from transgenic and non-transgenic mice.
The terms gifted, talented, and intelligent all have meanings that suggest an individual's highly proficient or exceptional performance in one or more specific areas of strength. Other than Spearman's g, which theorizes about a general elevated level of potential or ability, more contemporary theories of intelligence are based on theoretical models that define ability or intelligence according to a priori categories of specific performance. Recent studies in cognitive neuroscience report on the neural basis of g from various perspectives such as the neural speed theory and the efficiency of prefrontal function. Exceptional talent is the result of interactions between goal-directed behavior and nonvolitional perceptual processes in the brain that have yet to be fully characterized and understood by the fields of psychology and cognitive neuroscience. Some developmental studies report differences in region-specific neural activation, recruitment patterns, and reaction times in subjects who are identified with high IQ scores according to traditional scales of assessment such as the WISC-III or Stanford-Binet. Although as cases of savants and prodigies illustrate, talent is not synonymous with high IQ. This review synthesizes information from the fields of psychometrics and gifted education, with findings from the neurosciences on the neural basis of intelligence, creativity, profiles of expert performers, cognitive function, and plasticity to suggest a paradigm for investigating talent as the maximal and productive use of either or both of one's high level of general intelligence or domain-specific ability. Anat Rec (Part B: New Anat) 277B:21-36, 2004.
Policy regarding academically generated biomedical intellectual property (IP) has been shaped by two important events: the Vannevar Bush report to then President Roosevelt in 1945 and the Bayh-Dole Act of 1980. This policy, which vests the intellectual property produced from federally funded biomedical research from the government to the academic institution, was designed to promote technology transfer and thus promote the health of the U.S. economy. However, the policy has led to significant challenges, particularly in implementation. Here it is argued that the difficulties are due to differences in the structure of motivations between biomedical scientists, institutional officials, and private sector entrepreneurs. Understanding these differences may lead to a review of policy with the goal of enhancing technology transfer for the future.
Recent years have witnessed a dramatic increase in publications implicating free radicals and oxidative stress in virtually every aspect of biology and medicine. Redox Neurology may be defined as the study of the roles of free radicals, transition metals, oxidative stress, and antioxidant defenses in diseases of the nervous system. In this position paper, an argument is presented for recognition of this field as an emerging subspecialty within medical neurology. A program for postresidency fellowship training in Redox Neurology that integrates laboratory experience with specialized clinical practice is proposed. Opportunities for research and teaching careers in the redox neurosciences are outlined. The paper concludes with a forecast of several research themes likely to preoccupy this nascent discipline in the days ahead.
Manganese is an essential trace element and it is required for many ubiquitous enzymatic reactions. While manganese deficiency rarely occurs in humans, manganese toxicity is known to occur in certain occupational settings through inhalation of manganese-containing dust. The brain is particularly susceptible to this excess manganese, and accumulation there can cause a neurodegenerative disorder known as manganism. Characteristics of this disease are described as Parkinson-like symptoms. The similarities between the two disorders can be partially explained by the fact that the basal ganglia accumulate most of the excess manganese compared with other brain regions in manganism, and dysfunction in the basal ganglia is also the etiology of Parkinson's disease. It has been proposed that populations already at heightened risk for neurodegeneration may also be more susceptible to manganese neurotoxicity, which highlights the importance of investigating the human health effects of using the controversial compound, methylcyclopentadienyl manganese tricarbonyl (MMT), in gasoline to increase octane. The mechanisms by which increased manganese levels can cause neuronal dysfunction and death are yet to be elucidated. However, oxidative stress generated through mitochondrial perturbation may be a key event in the demise of the affected central nervous system cells. Our studies with primary astrocyte cultures have revealed that they are a critical component in the battery of defenses against manganese-induced neurotoxicity. Additionally, evidence for the role of oxidative stress in the progression of manganism is reviewed here.
Membrane lipid peroxidation and oxidative modification of various membrane and associated proteins (e.g., receptors, ion transporters and channels, and signal transduction and cytoskeletal proteins) occur in a range of neurodegenerative disorders. This membrane-associated oxidative stress (MAOS) is promoted by redox-active metals, most notably iron and copper. The mechanisms whereby different genetic and environmental factors initiate MAOS in specific neurological disorders are being elucidated. In Alzheimer's disease (AD), the amyloid beta-peptide generates reactive oxygen species and induces MAOS, resulting in disruption of cellular calcium homeostasis. In Parkinson's disease (PD), mitochondrial toxins and perturbed ubiquitin-dependent proteolysis may impair ATP production and increase oxyradical production and MAOS. The inheritance of polyglutamine-expanded huntingtin may promote neuronal degeneration in Huntington's disease (HD), in part, by increasing MAOS. Increased MAOS occurs in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) as the result of genetic abnormalities (e.g., Cu/Zn-superoxide dismutase mutations) or exposure to environmental toxins. Levels of iron are increased in vulnerable neuronal populations in AD and PD, and dietary and pharmacological manipulations of iron and copper modify the course of the disease in mouse models of AD and PD in ways that suggest a role for these metals in disease pathogenesis. An increasing number of pharmacological and dietary interventions are being identified that can suppress MAOS and neuronal damage and improve functional outcome in animal models of AD, PD, HD, and ALS. Novel preventative and therapeutic approaches for neurodegenerative disorders are emerging from basic research on the molecular and cellular actions of metals and MAOS in neural cells.
A functional --1021C --&gt; T polymorphism in the dopamine beta-hydroxylase gene has been demonstrated to regulate plasma DBH activity. We report that individuals with genetically determined low serum DBH activity (genotype T/T) have protection against Parkinson's disease (p = 0.01). In particular, we observed an underrepresentation of the T/T genotype odds ratio = 0.46 (CI = 0.27-0.8). Rather than identifying a haplotype, or a marker in linkage disequilibrium with the risk variant, this to our knowledge is the first report directly linking PD susceptibility with a proven functional variant.
Increased neurogenesis after cerebral ischemia suggests that functional recovery after stroke may be attributed, in part, to neural regeneration. In this study, we investigated the role of neurogenesis in the behavioral performance of gerbils after cerebral global ischemia. We used ionizing radiation to decrease neural regeneration, and 2 weeks later cerebral global ischemia was induced by bilateral common carotid artery occlusion. One month after the occlusion, the animals were behaviorally tested. Irradiation alone reduced neurogenesis but did not change vascular or dendritic morphology at the time of behavioral testing. Neither did irradiation, ischemia, or combined treatment impair rotor-rod performance or alter open-field activity. Gerbils subjected to both irradiation and ischemia demonstrated impaired performance in the water-maze task, compared with those that received only ischemia, radiation, or no treatment. These impairments after cerebral global ischemia under conditions of reduced neurogenesis support a role for the production of new cells in mediating functional recovery.
Slow-channel syndrome (SCS) is a progressive neuromuscular disorder caused by abnormal gating of mutant acetylcholine receptors (AChRs) in the neuromuscular junction (NMJ). The pathological hallmark is selective degeneration of the NMJ termed endplate myopathy. Endplate myopathy consists of a combination of ultrastructural abnormalities, including degenerating subsynaptic nuclei, mitochondria, and postsynaptic folds, caused by localized cation overload through mutant AChRs. Because some of these changes resemble those seen in programmed cell death, we evaluated SCS muscle for evidence of focal activation of apoptotic pathways. Using antisera specific for the activated forms of caspases, the family of cysteine proteases that underlies apoptosis, we demonstrated that active forms of initiator and effector caspases are selectively localized at the NMJ in SCS. In comparison with an electron microscopic assessment of the abnormalities seen in endplate myopathy, we found that activated caspases were present at between 15 and 57% of endplates, similar to the proportion of endplates with degenerating mitochondria or vacuoles. This greatly exceeds the number of NMJs exhibiting nuclear degeneration. These findings provide the first evidence supporting the view that caspase activation in human disease can play a prominent role in localized cellular degenerative processes without causing nuclear or cell death.



GPI-PLD [glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-specific phospholipase D (PLD)] is a secreted mammalian enzyme that specifically cleaves GPI-anchored proteins. In addition, the enzyme has been shown to cleave GPI anchor intermediates in cell lysates. The biosynthesis of the GPI anchor is well characterized; however, the mechanisms by which the levels of GPI anchor intermediates are regulated are still unknown. To investigate whether GPI-PLD plays a role in this regulation, we isolated stable HeLa cells overexpressing the enzyme. GPI-PLD-HeLa (GPI-PLD-transfected HeLa) cells showed a 3-fold increase in intracellular GPI-PLD activity and drastically decreased the levels of GPI-anchored proteins when compared with untransfected HeLa controls. Intracellular cleavage of GPI-anchored proteins has been suggested to occur early in the secretory pathway and, in agreement with this proposal, GPI-PLD activity in GPI-PLD-HeLa cells was detected not only in the endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi apparatus, but also in the plasma membrane. The enzyme was also active in lipid rafts, membrane microdomains in which GPI-anchored proteins and GPI anchor intermediates are concentrated, indicating that intracellular GPI-PLD cleavage may also occur in this compartment. Pulse-chase paradigms revealed the turnover rate of the last intermediate of the GPI anchor pathway in GPI-PLD-HeLa cells to be accelerated compared with the controls. Furthermore, 1,10-phenanthroline, a GPI-PLD inhibitor, reversed this effect. Our studies demonstrated that GPI-PLD can cleave not only GPI-anchored proteins, but also GPI anchor intermediates intracellularly. This observation opens the possibility that GPI-PLD can influence the steady-state levels of GPI-anchored proteins by hydrolysing the anchor before and after its attachment to proteins.

In hula hooping, organized motions of the body keep the hoop in stable oscillatory motion parallel to the ground. We examined the hypothesis that the multiple degrees of freedom (DF) of the lower limbs in producing the oscillations are resolved into a few control DF. The Karhunen-Love decomposition was applied to the kinematics of the lower limbs in three experiments in which oscillation amplitude and frequency were manipulated. Kinematic variance was accommodated by two modes whose relative contributions varied with task parameters. Complementary analyses of interjoint Hilbert relative phase suggested a lower-limb organization into a vertical suspension mode and an oscillatory fore-aft mode. These modes might stabilize the hoop's angular momentum by controlling, respectively, its vertical and horizontal components.


Differential allocation of energy to reproduction versus host defense is assumed to drive the seasonal antiphase relation between peak reproductive function and immunocompetence; however, evidence supporting this assumption is only correlational. These experiments tested whether photoperiod affects immune responses to antigens in peripubertal Siberian hamsters, whether such activation of the immune system exacts energetic and reproductive costs, and whether such costs vary seasonally. Male Siberian hamsters were raised from birth in long (LD) or short days (SD), which respectively initiate or inhibit the onset of puberty. To elicit a specific immune response, hamsters were injected with a novel antigen (keyhole limpet hemocyanin [KLH]) as juveniles. Reproductive development was attenuated and body temperature was elevated in LD hamsters relative to saline-injected control animals. In contrast, KLH treatments affected neither thermoregulation nor reproductive development in photoinhibited SD hamsters. In experiment 2, juvenile male hamsters were challenged with bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS) in order to elicit an innate immune response. Febrile and anorexic responses to LPS were greater in reproductively stimulated LD hamsters relative to reproductively inhibited SD hamsters. LPS treatments attenuated somatic and testicular development in LD hamsters, but did not significantly affect circulating testosterone concentrations. In contrast, LPS treatments were without effect on somatic and reproductive development in SD hamsters. These experiments indicate that photoperiod affects antigen-specific antibody production, febrile responses to LPS, and sickness behaviors in juvenile Siberian hamsters, and that peripubertal activation of the immune system exacts energetic and metabolic costs that can diminish the magnitude of somatic and reproductive maturation in LD. The data also underscore the importance of seasonally dependent life history factors in assessing physiological tradeoffs.
Growth and guidance of neurites (axons and dendrites) during development is the prerequisite for the establishment of functional neural networks in the adult organism. In the adult, mechanisms similar to those used during development may regulate plastic changes that underlie important nervous system functions, such as memory and learning. There is now ever-increasing evidence that extracellular matrix (ECM)-associated factors are critically involved in the formation of neuronal connections during development, and their plastic changes in the adult. Here, we review the current literature on the role of ECM components in activity-dependent synaptic development and plasticity, with the major focus on the thrombospondin type I repeat (TSR) domain-containing proteins. We propose that ECM components may modulate neuronal development and plasticity by: 1) regulating cellular motility and morphology, thus contributing to structural alterations that are associated with the expression of synaptic plasticity, 2) coordinating transsynaptic signaling during plasticity via their cell surface receptors, and 3) defining the physical parameters of the extracellular space, thereby regulating diffusion of soluble signaling molecules in the extracellular space (ECS).
Neuroscience is a relatively new discipline encompassing neurology, psychology and biology. It has made great strides in the last 100 years, during which many aspects of the physiology, biochemistry, pharmacology and structure of the vertebrate brain have been understood. Understanding of some of the basic perceptual, cognitive, attentional, emotional and mnemonic functions is also making progress, particularly since the advent of the cognitive neurosciences, which focus specifically on understanding higher level processes of cognition via imaging technology. Neuroimaging has enabled scientists to study the human brain at work in vivo, deepening our understanding of the very complex processes underpinning speech and language, thinking and reasoning, reading and mathematics. It seems timely, therefore, to consider how we might implement our increased understanding of brain development and brain function to explore educational questions.

1. The effects of calcium channel blockers on co-transmission from different populations of autonomic vasomotor neurons were studied on isolated segments of uterine artery and vena cava from guinea-pigs. 2. Sympathetic, noradrenergic contractions of the uterine artery (produced by 200 pulses at 1 or 10 Hz; 600 pulses at 20 Hz) were abolished by the N-type calcium channel blocker omega-conotoxin (CTX) GVIA at 1-10 nm. 3. Biphasic sympathetic contractions of the vena cava (600 pulses at 20 Hz) mediated by noradrenaline and neuropeptide Y were abolished by 10 nm CTX GVIA. 4. Neurogenic relaxations of the uterine artery (200 pulses at 10 Hz) mediated by neuronal nitric oxide and neuropeptides were reduced &lt;50% by CTX GVIA 10-100 nm. 5. Capsaicin (3 microm) did not affect the CTX GVIA-sensitive or CTX GVIA-resistant neurogenic relaxations of the uterine artery. 6. The novel N-type blocker CTX CVID (100-300 nm), P/Q-type blockers agatoxin IVA (10-100 nm) or CTX CVIB (100 nm), the L-type blocker nifedipine (10 microm) or the 'R-type' blocker SNX-482 (100 nm), all failed to reduce CTX GVIA-resistant relaxations. The T-type channel blocker NiCl(2) (100-300 microm) reduced but did not abolish the remaining neurogenic dilations. 7. Release of different neurotransmitters from the same autonomic vasomotor axon depends on similar subtypes of calcium channels. N-type channels are responsible for transmitter release from vasoconstrictor neurons innervating a muscular artery and capacitance vein, but only partly mediate release of nitric oxide and neuropeptides from pelvic vasodilator neurons.
1. 2-p-(2-carboxyethylphenethylamino-5'-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine) (CGS 21680) is considered the reference compound to study adenosine A(2A) receptors. However, CGS 21680 binding in the cerebral cortex, where adenosine A(1) receptors are predominant, displays a mixed A(2A)/A(1) receptor pharmacology. We now use adenosine A(1) and A(2A) receptor knockout mice to investigate the characteristics of cortical [(3)H]CGS 21680 binding. 2. [(3)H]CGS 21680 binding to the cerebral cortex was strongly reduced in adenosine A(1) receptor knockout mice, but only slightly reduced in A(2A) receptor knockout mice compared with the corresponding wild-type littermates. 3. Another selective A(2A) receptor ligand, [(3)H]-5-amino-7-(2-phenylethyl)-2-(2-furyl)-pyrazolo[4,3-e]-1,2,4-triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidine ([(3)H]SCH 58261), displayed a saturable binding to mouse cortical membranes, albeit with a binding density 20 times lower than that of striatal membranes, and this [(3)H]SCH58261 binding was abolished in both striatal and cortical membranes of A(2A) receptor knockout mice and unchanged in A(1) receptor knockout mice. 4. The presence of A(2A) receptors in cortical neurons was further confirmed by Western blot in mouse cortical nerve terminal membranes. 5. It is concluded that, although A(2A) receptors are present in the cerebral cortex, the purportedly selective A(2A) receptor agonist [(3)H]CGS 21680 binds in the cerebral cortex to an entity that requires the presence of adenosine A(1) receptors. Thus, CGS 21680 should be used with care in all preparations where adenosine A(1) receptors out-number A(2A) receptors.
1. We tested whether pretreatment of reagents known to induce hypoxia-inducible factor-1 (HIF-1) may confer chemoresistance against cytotoxicity of 1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea (BCNU) to rat C6 glioma cells. We also studied which cytotoxic mechanism(s) of chloroethylnitrosoureas could be neutralized by cobalt preconditioning. 2. Preconditioning of rat C6 glioma cells with cobalt chloride (300 microm, 2 h) induced HIF-1 binding activity based on electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA). Results from Western blotting confirmed a heightened HIF-1alpha level upon cobalt chloride exposure (300-400 microm, 2 h). Cobalt chloride (300 microm) pretreatment for 2 h substantially neutralized BCNU toxicity, leading to increases in glioma cell survival based on MTT assay. In addition, pre-exposure of C6 cells with desferrioxamine (DFO; 400 microm, 3 h), an iron chelator known to activate HIF-1, also induced HIF-1 binding and rendered the glioma cells resistant to cytotoxicity of BCNU. 3. Pre-incubation with cobalt chloride abolished the cytotoxicity of several carbamoylating agents including 2-chloroethyl isocyanate and cyclohexyl isocyanate, the respective carbamoylating metabolites of BCNU and 1-(2-chloroethyl)-3-cyclohexyl-1-nitrosourea. The protective effect of cobalt exposure, however, was not observed when cells were challenged with alkylating agents including temozolomide. 4. Cadmium chloride (50 microm) effectively reversed cobalt-induced HIF-1 activation. Correspondingly, cadmium chloride suppressed carbamoylating chemoresistance mediated by cobalt chloride pretreatment. Furthermore, both double-stranded oligodeoxynucleotide (ODN) decoy with HIF-1 cognate sequence and antisense phosphorothioate ODNs against HIF-1alpha partially abolished the carbamoylating chemoresistance associated with cobalt preconditioning. 5. Our results suggest that cobalt- or DFO-preconditioning may enhance glioma carbamoylating chemoresistance that is dependent, at least in part, on induction of HIF-1.
1. Cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) Cl(-) channel is defective during cystic fibrosis (CF). Activators of the CFTR Cl(-) channel may be useful for therapy of CF. Here, we demonstrate that a range of general anesthetics like normal-alkanols (n-alkanols) and related compounds can stimulate the Cl(-) channel activity of wild-type CFTR and delF508-CFTR mutant. 2. The effects of n-alkanols like octanol on CFTR activity were measured by iodide ((125)I) efflux and patch-clamp techniques on three distinct cellular models: (1). CFTR-expressing Chinese hamster ovary cells, (2). human airway Calu-3 epithelial cells and (3). human airway JME/CF15 epithelial cells which express the delF508-CFTR mutant. 3. Our data show for the first time that n-alkanols activate both wild-type CFTR and delF508-CFTR mutant. Octanol stimulated (125)I efflux in a dose-dependent manner in CFTR-expressing cells (wild-type and delF508) but not in cell lines lacking CFTR. (125)I efflux and Cl(-) currents induced by octanol were blocked by glibenclamide but insensitive to 4,4'-diisothiocyanatostilbene-2,2'-disulfonic acid, as expected for a CFTR Cl(-) current. 4. CFTR activation by octanol was neither due to cell-to-cell uncoupling properties of octanol nor to an intracellular cAMP increase. CFTR activation by octanol requires phosphorylation by protein kinase-A (PKA) since it was prevented by H-89, a PKA inhibitor. 5. n-Alkanols chain length was an important determinant for channel activation, with rank order of potencies: 1-heptanol&lt;1-octanol&lt;2-octanol&lt;1-decanol. Our findings may be of valuable interest for developing novel therapeutic strategies for CF.
1. Recent studies have shown that sodium butyrate and other short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) can prevent inflammation in colon diseases. Our aim was to elucidate whether sodium butyrate and SCFAs regulate the inflammatory responses in different neural inflammation models in cell cultures. 2. Inflammatory responses to LPS-induced microglial activation were recorded by the secretion of nitric oxide (NO) and cytokines IL-6 and TNF-alpha and related to the changes in the DNA-binding activities of NF-kappaB complex. 3. We observed that sodium butyrate is strongly anti-inflammatory against LPS-induced responses in rat primary microglia as well as in hippocampal slice cultures and in neural cocultures of microglial cells, astrocytes and cerebellar granule neurons. 4. In murine N9 microglial cell line, instead, sodium butyrate and other SCFAs (propionate, valerate and caproate) enhanced the LPS-induced inflammatory response. 5. The pretreatment with butyrate before LPS exposure induced an equal or more enhanced response than simultaneous exposure with butyrate and LPS. This indicates that butyrate induces an adaptative response against microglial activation. 6. We also observed that butyrate treatment both in transformed N9 cells and in hippocampal slice cultures downregulates the NF-kappaB-binding capacity induced by LPS stimulation. 7. Our results show that butyrate is anti-inflammatory in primary, brain-derived microglial cells, as observed recently in colon diseases, but proinflammatory in transformed, proliferating N9 microglial cells, which may be related to the anticancer properties of butyrate observed in tumor cells.

We surveyed 33 UK MR units that have been developed by New Opportunity Funding (NOF) with reference to planning for and provision of anaesthetic services. The likely clinical and resource implications were documented. Units were developed predominantly in acute general hospitals with paediatric, critically ill and neuroscience patients represented. It may be predicted that up to 50% of newly built units will require anaesthetic provision and this should be anticipated at the planning stage. A senior anaesthetist should be involved in the planning process.
Acute and chronic autoimmune neuropathies, including Guillain-Barr syndromes (GBS) are often characterized by the presence of autoantibodies that react with neural gangliosides. Evidence from human and animal studies indicates that anti-ganglioside antibodies play a primary neuropathogenic role, and their rapid elimination from the circulation through specific immunoadsorption therapy thus has the potential to ameliorate the course of the disease. Here we have tested this therapeutic principle in the Miller Fisher variant of GBS that is associated serologically with acute phase anti-GQ1b ganglioside immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies, and in chronic ataxic neuropathies associated with persistently elevated immunoglobulin M (IgM) antibodies that react with GQ1b, GD3 and other disialylated gangliosides. Human and mouse anti-GQ1b IgG and IgM antibodies may also react with GD3, suggesting the shared terminal disialoside epitope could be involved in antibody binding. We thus synthesized the terminal trisaccharide, NeuAc(alpha2-8)NeuAc(alpha2-3)Gal common to GQ1b and GD3, and conjugated it to bovine serum albumin (BSA). This disialylgalactose glycoconjugate (DSG-BSA) binds anti-GQ1b antibodies in 32/58 (55%) human sera containing IgG or IgM anti-GQ1b antibodies at titres up to 1/130 000; it also binds a wide range of mouse monoclonal anti-GQ1b and -GD3 antibodies. When conjugated to Sepharose as mock therapeutic immmunoaffinity columns, the immobilized trisaccharide (DSG-Sepharose) eliminates anti-GQ1b antibodies from positive sera in proportion to their level of binding to DSG-BSA. Oligosaccharide-specific immunoadsorption therapy thus provides a new therapeutic approach to anti-GQ1b antibody-associated syndromes that could be applied to clinical practice. Furthermore, modification of the immobilized oligosaccharide epitopes to incorporate other glycan structures may allow this approach to be adapted to other forms of autoimmune neuropathy associated with uniform anti-glycolipid antibody profiles.
Patients presenting with subacute amnesia are frequently seen in acute neurological practice. Amongst the differential diagnoses, herpes simplex encephalitis, Korsakoff's syndrome and limbic encephalitis should be considered. Limbic encephalitis is typically a paraneoplastic syndrome with a poor prognosis; thus, identifying those patients with potentially reversible symptoms is important. Voltage-gated potassium channel antibodies (VGKC-Ab) have recently been reported in three cases of reversible limbic encephalitis. Here we review the clinical, immunological and neuropsychological features of 10 patients (nine male, one female; age range 44-79 years), eight of whom were identified in two centres over a period of 15 months. The patients presented with 1-52 week histories of memory loss, confusion and seizures. Low plasma sodium concentrations, initially resistant to treatment, were present in eight out of 10. Brain MRI at onset showed signal change in the medial temporal lobes in eight out of 10 cases. Paraneoplastic antibodies were negative, but VGKC-Ab ranged from 450 to 5128 pM (neurological and healthy controls &lt;100 pM). CSF oligoclonal bands were found in only one, but bands matched with those in the serum were found in six other patients. VGKC-Abs in the CSF, tested in five individuals, varied between &lt;1 and 10% of serum values. Only one patient had neuromyotonia, which was excluded by electromyography in seven of the others. Formal neuropsychology testing showed severe and global impairment of memory, with sparing of general intellect in all but two patients, and of nominal functions in all but one. Variable regimes of steroids, plasma exchange and intravenous immunoglobulin were associated with variable falls in serum VGKC-Abs, to values between 2 and 88% of the initial values, together with marked improvement of neuropsychological functioning in six patients, slight improvement in three and none in one. The improvement in neuropsychological functioning in seven patients correlated broadly with the fall in antibodies. However, varying degrees of cerebral atrophy and residual cognitive impairment were common. Over the same period, only one paraneoplastic case of limbic encephalitis was identified between the two main centres. Thus, VGKC-Ab-associated encephalopathy is a relatively common form of autoimmune, non-paraneoplastic, potentially treatable encephalitis that can be diagnosed by a serological test. Establishing the frequency of this new syndrome, the full range of clinical presentations and means of early recognition, and optimal immunotherapy, should now be the aim.
What determines how well an individual can manage the complexity of information processing demands when several tasks have to be executed simultaneously? Various theoretical frameworks address the mechanisms of information processing and the changes that take place when processes become automated, and brain regions involved in various types of information processing have been identified, as well as sequences of events in the brain. The neurophysiological substrate of human information processing capacity, i.e. the amount that can be processed simultaneously, is, however, unresolved, as is the basis of inter-individual variability in capacity. Automatization of cognitive functions is known to increase capacity to process additional tasks, but behavioural indices of automatization are poor predictors of processing capacity in individuals. Automatization also leads to a decline of brain activity in the working memory system. In this study, we test the hypothesis that processing capacity is closely related to the way that the brain adjusts to practice of a single cognitive task, i.e. to the changes in neuronal activity that accompany automatization as measured with functional MRI (fMRI). Using a task that taxes the working memory system, and is sensitive to automatization, performance improved while activity in the network declined, as expected. The key finding is that the magnitude of automatization-induced reduction of activity in this system was a strong predictor for the ability to perform two different working memory tasks simultaneously (after scanning). It explained 60% of the variation in information processing capacity across individuals. In contrast, the behavioural measures of automatization did not predict this. We postulate that automatization involves at least two partially independent neurophysiological mechanisms, i.e. (i) streamlining of neuronal communication which improves performance on a single task; and (ii) functional trimming of neuronal ensembles which enhances the capacity to accommodate processing of additional tasks, potentially by facilitating rapid switching of instruction sets or contexts. Finally, this study shows that fMRI can provide information that predicts behavioural output, which is not provided by overt behavioural measures.
Saccades are rapid eye movements that move the line of sight between successive points of fixation; they are among the best understood of movements, possessing dynamic properties that are easily measured. Saccades have become a popular means to study motor control, cognition and memory, and are often used in conjunction with techniques such as functional imaging and transcranial magnetic stimulation. It has been possible to identify several, distinct populations of neurons, from brainstem to cerebral cortex, that contribute to behaviours ranging from reflexive glances to memorized sequences of saccades during learned tasks. This progress has led to the development of schemes for the neurobiology of saccades that imply an equivalence of a region of the brain with specific behaviours (e.g. prefrontal cortex with memory-guided saccades). In fact, multiple neuronal populations contribute to each type of saccadic behaviour, be it 'reflexive' or 'complex'. Furthermore, an important difference exists between cortical areas that encode visual stimuli or desired saccades over a population of neurons as 'place maps', and motoneurons in oculomotor, trochlear and abducens nuclei that dictate eye rotations in terms of their discharge rates. This dichotomy implies that a 'spatial-temporal transformation' of saccadic signals must occur between cerebral cortex and ocular motoneurons, to which the superior colliculus and cerebellum contribute. Consideration of such factors may broaden the value of saccades, which can be used to test a range of hypotheses, and provide a simple scheme for understanding clinical disorders of saccades; some illustrative video clips are available as supplementary material at Brain Online.
Peripheral administration of lipopolysaccharide (LPS), a potent activator of the immune system, induces symptoms of behavioral depression, such as social withdrawal, concommitant with increases in c-Fos expression in central autonomic network nuclei. Previous studies implicated vagal visceral sensory nerves in transduction of immune-related signals relevant to for the induction of social withdrawal, a symptom of behavioral depression. Vagal sensory nerves terminate in the dorsal vagal complex (DVC) of the brainstem, a region that functions to integrate visceral signals and may also play a role in modulating arousal and affect. The objective of the current study was to determine whether the DVC contributes to immunosensory pathways driving symptoms of social withdrawal associated with LPS-induced behavioral depression, using a reversible lesion technique to temporarily inactivate the DVC. To assess the effects of DVC inactivation on LPS-induced social withdrawal and the subsequent changes in brain activation, we used behavioral assessment of social withdrawal, and analyzed c-Fos expression, a marker of neuronal activation, in the central nucleus of the amygdala (CEA), bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BST), hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN), and ventromendial preoptic area (VMPO). Two hours following intraperitoneal LPS injection, there was a significant increase in c-Fos immunoreactivity in forebrain regions in animals treated with LPS. DVC inactivation completely blocked LPS-induced social withdrawal and dramatically reduced LPS-induced Fos expression in all four forebrain regions assessed. Collectively, these findings support the idea that the DVC acts as an immune-behavior interface between the peripheral stimuli and brain areas involved in modulating social behavior.

This article comprises a historical review of the literature pertaining to the representation of the visual field in human primary visual cortex. A brief survey of the anatomy of the visual system is followed by a critical evaluation of the key studies that have informed both the issue of the disproportionate representation of central vision within primary visual cortex, and the anatomical basis underlying the phenomena of macular sparing and macular splitting hemianopia.
There is a controversial issue in neuroscience whether the expansion of neural network space permits the development of more complex behavior. One of the best-known model systems for studying the relationship between brain space and behavior is song production and the associated song control system in songbirds. Although the neuroanatomical background of song production is well established, the direct link between song nuclei volumes and song traits remains puzzling. Analyses within species have provided conflicting results regarding the association between song nuclei volumes and measures of song complexity and song length. Based on a meta-analysis, we present here the results of the first synthetic review, in which we test for overall intraspecific patterns in relation to bird song and the size of associated neural tissues. We found significant positive relationships between the volume of two important song nuclei (HVC and RA) and repertoire size and song length. We assessed the importance of absolute and relative volumes, and found that a control for the covariation with the telencephalon may be important. By estimating the adequate sample size that would be needed to reach sufficient statistical power in particular studies, we conclude that previous studies finding non-significant associations between song and volumes of brain nuclei were of weak power. When we factored out the covariation between song length and repertoire size, we found that these traits may explain independently significant amount of variations in the relative volume of HVC, but not of RA. The link between the volumes of song nuclei and song features has important theoretical implications with regard to the neurobiology and evolution of bird song.
Experimental models such as the facial nerve axotomy paradigm in rodents allow the systematic and detailed study of the response of neurones and their microenvironment to various types of challenges. Well-studied experimental examples include peripheral nerve trauma, the retrograde axonal transport of neurotoxins and locally enhanced inflammation following the induction of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis in combination with axotomy. These studies have led to novel insights into the regeneration programme of the motoneurone, the role of microglia and astrocytes in synaptic plasticity and the biology of glial cells. Importantly, many of the findings obtained have proven to be valid in other functional systems and even across species barriers. In particular, microglial expression of major histocompatibility complex molecules has been found to occur in response to various types of neuronal damage and is now regarded as a characteristic component of &quot;glial inflammation&quot;. It is found in the context of numerous neurodegenerative disorders including Parkinson's and Alzheimer's disease. The detachment of afferent axonal endings from the surface membrane of regenerating motoneurones and their subsequent displacement by microglia (&quot;synaptic stripping&quot;) and long-lasting insulation by astrocytes have also been confirmed in humans. The medical implications of these findings are significant. Also, the facial nerve system of rats and mice has become the best studied and most widely used test system for the evaluation of neurotrophic factors.
Despite advances in anti-epileptic drug therapy and epilepsy surgery in recent years, intractable epilepsy remains a large clinical problem. Surgical resection, which can have an excellent outcome, is appropriate for only a minority of patients in whom an identifiable focus in non-eloquent brain can be identified. Systemic drug delivery is inevitably limited by the potential for unwanted side effects, due to actions both outside the CNS and in non-epileptic brain regions. Thus for a substantial number of patients novel treatment approaches are urgently needed. Both focal drug delivery and neuronal stem cell grafting have been evaluated in a variety of experimental epilepsy models in recent years, targeting either the seizure focus or key propagation pathways. The literature in this field is critically reviewed and considered in a clinical context. Studies in both areas are hampered by the limitations of available animal models, and by uncertainties in discerning which changes in the epileptic brain directly promote seizures, and which are compensatory. However, in many cases promising, though short-term, results have been obtained. Before such studies could be considered in humans further investigations that include long-term seizure and behavioural outcomes, in clinically relevant experimental models, are required. However, the current literature does provide proof in principle for a focal treatment approach, which may offer hope for many currently intractable patients for whom drug developments and surgical advances have proved disappointing.
Simple reaction times (RTs) are typically faster than choice reaction times and increase with uncertainty according to Hick's law. Here we show that smooth pursuit eye movement RTs show no effect of SR uncertainty while joystick tracking shows a step change between SRT and CRT, but no significant increases beyond two choices. The results suggest there is a benefit to pre-programming joystick tracking but not for smooth pursuit eye movements (SPEMs).
The ERP experiment reported here addresses some outstanding questions regarding word processing in sentential contexts: (1) Does only the 'message-level' representation (the representation of sentence meaning combining lexico-semantic and syntactic constraints) affect the processing of the incoming word [J. Exp. Psychol.: Learn. Mem. Cogn. 20 (1994) 92]? (2) Is lexically specified semantic relatedness between multiple words the primary factor instead [J. Exp. Psychol.: Learn. Mem. Cogn. 15 (1989) 791]? (3) Alternatively, do word and sentence level information interact during sentence comprehension? Volunteers read sentences (e.g. Dutch sentences resembling The javelin was by the athletes...) in which the (passive) syntactic structure and the semantic content of the lexical items together created a strong expectation of a specific final word (e.g., thrown), but also sentences in which the syntactic structure was changed from passive to active (e.g. Dutch sentences resembling The javelin has the athletes...), which altered the message level constraint substantially and strongly reduced the expectation of any particular completion. Half of the sentences ended in a final word with a good lexico-semantic fit relative to the preceding content words (e.g. thrown, fitting well with the preceding javelin and athletes). This creates very plausible sentences in the strong constraint context but semantically anomalous ones in the weakly constraining context (e.g., The javelin has the athletes thrown). In the other half the final word had a poor lexico-semantic fit (e.g., summarized that does not fit at all with javelin and athletes). Good lexico-semantic fit endings showed no difference in N400 amplitude in the strong and weak message-level constraint sentences, despite the fact that the latter were semantically anomalous. This result suggests that lexico-semantic fit can be more important for word processing than the meaning of the sentence as determined by the syntactic structure, at least initially. These conditions did differ, however, in the region of the P600 where the anomalous weak constraint version was much more positive, a pattern usually seen with ungrammatical sentences. The processing of poor lexico-semantic fit words showed a quite different pattern; in both strong and weak constraint sentences they elicited a substantial N400 effect, but N400-amplitude was significantly more negative following strong constraint contexts, even though both sentence contexts were equivalently anomalous. Taken together, these findings provide evidence for the importance of both message-level and lexico-semantic information during sentence comprehension. The implications for theories of sentence interpretation are discussed and an extension of the message-based hypothesis will be proposed.
Voluntary actions produce suppression of neural activity in sensory areas, and reduced levels of conscious sensation. Recent computational models of motor control have linked sensory suppression to motor prediction: an efferent signal from motor areas may cancel the sensory reafferences predicted as a consequence of movement. Direct evidence for the efferent mechanism in sensory suppression has been lacking. We investigated the perceived size of finger-muscle twitches (MEPs) evoked by TMS in eight normal subjects. Subjects freely chose on each trial whether to make or withhold a voluntary flexion of the right index finger, in synchrony with an instructional stimulus. A test MEP occurred at the instructed time of action. The subject then relaxed and a second reference MEP occurred a few seconds later. Subjects judged which of the two MEPs was larger. Subjects perceived the first test MEP to be smaller in trials where they made voluntary actions than on trials where they did not, demonstrating sensory suppression. On randomly selected trials, a conditioning prepulse was delivered over the supplementary motor area (SMA) 10 ms before the pulse producing the test MEP. The SMA prepulse reduced and almost abolished the sensory suppression effect in voluntary action trials. We suggest the SMA may provide an efferent signal which is used by other brain areas to modulate somatosensory activity during self-generated movement.
While the requirement of CDKs in cell cycle control is well established, the participation of CDK family members in other important biological processes are now beginning to be uncovered. Paramount in these newly defined roles is the surprising involvement of CDKs in neuronal development and death. These discoveries are somewhat of a paradox considering the terminally differentiated state of neurons. This brief perspective will focus on the role of CDKs in neuronal death and neurodegeneration. In this regard, we will primarily explore two (of potentially many) ways by which CDKs may enable neuronal death. The first involves the effects of ectopic activation of cell cycle related CDKs in a terminal post mitotic environment. The second explores how cdk5, a neuron specific cdk required for normal neuronal function, can be usurped to signal death.
Mounting evidence suggests that calcium released from internal stores plays a critical role in the progression of apoptosis. The primary calcium release channel on endoplasmic reticulum membranes is the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor (IP3R). Deletion of the gene for IP3R results in defects in apoptosis in response to multiple stimuli. Conversely, augmented IP3R levels are associated with increased cell death. A mechanistic basis for altered IP3R function during apoptosis was revealed with the discovery that cytochrome c binds to IP3R early in apoptosis. This interaction blocks the calcium-dependent inhibition of IP3R function, resulting in increased calcium release from internal stores. The resultant cytoplasmic and mitochondrial calcium overload culminates in cell-wide cytochrome c release and maximal caspase activation. These findings highlight the importance of intracellular calcium stores in apoptosis, and the multi-functional role of cytochrome c released from mitochondria in cell death.
The primary olfactory centre, the antennal lobe of Heliothis virescens moths, contains 62 glomeruli which process plant odour information and four male-specific glomeruli which form the macroglomerular complex, involved in processing information about pheromone and interspecific signals. Using calcium imaging, we recorded the spatio-temporal activity pattern of the glomeruli in the anterior antennal lobe during stimulation with odorants produced by plants or insects. Each odorant elicited specific excitatory responses in one or a few glomeruli: the major pheromone component did so exclusively in the large glomerulus of the macroglomerular complex and the plant odours exclusively in the ordinary glomeruli. Eight glomeruli, with corresponding plant odour responses and positions, were identified within each sex. Glomeruli responded specifically to linalool, beta-ocimene/beta-myrcene or germacrene D/alpha-farnesene. Responses to two essential plant oils covered the response areas of their major constituents, as well as activating additional glomeruli. Stronger activation in the AL due to increased odour concentration was expressed as increased response strength within the odorant-specific glomeruli as well as recruitment of less sensitive glomeruli.
This paper presents a unitary approach to emotion and emotion regulation, building on the excellent points in the lead article by Cole, Martin, and Dennis (this issue), as well as the fine commentaries that follow it. It begins by stressing how, in the real world, the processes underlying emotion and emotion regulation appear to be largely one and the same, rendering the value of the distinction largely for the benefit of analysis. There is an extensive discussion of how the same processes can generate emotions (i.e., are constitutive of emotion) and account for variability of manifestation of emotion in context (i.e., regulate them). Following an extensive review of many of the principles involved in emotion and emotion regulation, the paper presents implications for developmental study of infants and children, includes several methodological recommendations, and concludes with an analysis of the extent to which contemporary affective neuroscience contributes to the study of emotion and emotion regulation.
Regulatory aspects of development can best be understood by research that conceptualizes relations between cognition and emotion. The neural mechanisms associated with regulatory processes may be the same as those associated with higher order cognitive processes. Thus, from a developmental cognitive neuroscience perspective, emotion and cognition are dynamically linked and work together to process information and execute action. This article highlights the authors' recent efforts at integrating emotion regulation and cognitive processing during the first year of life by focusing on the methodological criteria outlined by Cole, Martin, and Dennis (this issue), and it discusses the idea that emotion and cognition are an intricately bound developmental process.
Affective neuroscience and cognitive science approaches are useful for understanding the components of emotion regulation; several examples from current research are provided. Individual differences in emotion regulation and a focus on the context of emotion experience and expression provide additional tools to study emotion regulation, and its development, from a biobehavioral perspective.
Resolution of (2RS,3RS)-2-[alpha-(2-methoxymethoxyphenoxy)phenylmethyl]morpholine, 11, with (+) mandelic acid led to the formation of (+)-(2S,3S)-2-[alpha-(2-methoxymethoxyphenoxy)phenyl methyl] morpholine (11a). Compound 11 was synthesized in seven steps from (2RS,3RS)-cinnamyl alcohol-2,3-epoxide (4), with an overall yield of 17%. Cleavage of the methoxymethyl group of the Fmoc derivative 12 with catalytic amounts of p-toluenesulfonic acid in methanol afforded (+)-(2S,3S)-2-(2-morpholin-2-yl-2-phenylmethoxy)phenol 2. The synthetic utility as well as the configuration of compound 2 has been demonstrated by converting (S,S)-2-(2-morpholin-2-yl-2-phenylmethoxy)phenol 2 to (2S,3S)-2-[alpha-(2-ethoxyphenoxy)phenylmethyl]morpholine (1) and (2S,3S)-2-(2-methoxyphenoxy) benzyl)morpholine (16), two potential norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors under clinical evaluation.

Sudden onset neurological syndromes are almost always vascular but there is a wide range of causes of subacute onset neurological syndromes. Most diagnoses will become clear from clinical assessment and, depending on presentation, computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging of the brain or spine and cerebrospinal fluid examination. When investigations have proved negative, paraneoplastic neurological diseases and Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease should be considered.
Acute onset headache is common. Most such patients do not have a sinister underlying cause, but some do. The key to deciding who requires investigation and who does not lies in the history. All patients presenting with headache maximal immediately or within a few minutes and lasting longer than an hour, require investigations (computed tomography brain scan +/- lumbar puncture) to exclude subarachnoid haemorrhage.
Respiratory failure is a common complication of acute neuromuscular disease and high cervical cord lesions and should be monitored by measuring forced vital capacity and respiratory rate. Urgent imaging is mandatory if there is any clinical suspicion of spinal cord disease. Treatment of Guillain-Barr syndrome with plasma exchange or intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIg) speeds up the rate of recovery. Treatment of patients in a myasthenic crisis with plasma exchange or IVIg often results in significant short-term improvement. A drug side effect or metabolic disturbance should be considered in a patient presenting acutely with proximal weakness, myalgia and high creatine kinase.
We describe a 78-year-old gentleman who, following bilateral above-knee amputations, developed symptoms of restless legs syndrome in the absent portions of his lower extremities. These symptoms improved with dopamine agonist therapy. In addition, he later developed parkinsonism with prominent rest tremor on metoclopramide. This suggests that this individual had a dopamine-deficient state which predisposed him to both restless legs syndrome and drug-induced or drug-exacerbated parkinsonism. We propose expanding the spectrum of phantom limb phenomena to include phantom restless legs.





Studies on the naturalistic course of early-onset bipolar disorder are few and studies evaluating the efficacy of pharmacotherapy consist largely of open trials of thymoleptics and neuroleptics on small samples. The current study was undertaken to map the course of the disorder and the prevailing prescribing practice in early-onset bipolar disorder at a child and adolescent psychiatry center in India. A chart review of 139 children and adolescents (&lt;16 years) with a DSM-IV diagnosis of bipolar disorder-mania was performed and the baseline demographic and clinical characteristics, episode characteristics, and treatment and follow-up details were collected and the data analyzed. The index episode remitted in all 133 (96%) subjects for whom the information was available. One hundred twenty-five (90%) subjects received thymoleptics for the index episode, of which lithium was used in 85%. Valproate was the next most commonly used thymoleptic (18%). Eighteen (13%) subjects received combination thymoleptics. Sixty-eight percent received neuroleptics either alone or as adjuncts in the acute phase. During the follow-up period, which ranged from 3 to 56 months (mean +/- SD, 15 +/- 14), 35% of subjects relapsed, 89% within the first 2 years. Twenty-eight percent of subjects relapsed despite being on apparently adequate doses of lithium. The limitations of the study are that it is retrospective in nature, and that structured diagnostic tools and rating scales were not used. We conclude that lithium is the most commonly used thymoleptic in early-onset bipolar disorder. Lithium alone or in combination with neuroleptics appears to have good efficacy in the acute phase of the disorder. The majority of relapses occurred in the first 2 years and the efficacy of currently used thymoleptics in prophylaxis is uncertain.
How do I know that I am the person who is moving? According to Wittgenstein (1958), the sense of agency involves a primitive notion of the self used as subject, which does not rely on any prior perceptual identification and which is immune to error through misidentification. However, the neuroscience of action and the neuropsychology of schizophrenia show the existence of specific cognitive processes underlying the sense of agency--the &quot;Who&quot; system--which is disrupted in delusions of control. Yet, we have to be careful in the interpretation of such clinical symptoms, which cannot be so easily reduced to deficit of action monitoring or to lack of action awareness. Moreover, we should refine the definition of the sense of agency by distinguishing the sense of initiation and the sense of one's own movements. A conceptual analysis of the empirical data will lead us to establish the taxonomy of the different levels of action representations.


Stroke is the third leading cause of death and the leading cause of long-term disability in the United States. Approximately 80% of all strokes are ischemic and there are limited therapies approved for the treatment of acute ischemic stroke. Understanding the mechanisms of ischemic brain damage is necessary for the development of innovative treatment strategies. In this review, we discuss the hemodynamic and molecular mechanisms of ischemic brain damage and the potential therapeutic strategies, including reperfusion and primary and secondary neuroprotection, and strategies for recovery of function, such as neural plasticity and stem cell transplantation. The effective treatment of ischemic stroke is likely to result from a combination of therapeutic modalities aimed at different mechanisms of ischemic brain damage and delivered at specific times after acute cerebral ischemia.
It has long been accepted that high concentrations of glutamate can destroy neurons, and this is the basis of the theory of excitotoxicity during brain injury such as stroke. Glutamate N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists such as Selfotel, Aptiganel, Gavestinel and others failed to show neuroprotective efficacy in human clinical trials or produced intolerable central nervous system adverse effects. The failure of these agents has been attributed to poor studies in animal models and to poorly designed clinical trials. We also speculate that NMDA receptor antagonism may have hindered endogenous mechanisms for neuronal survival and neuroregeneration. It remains to be proven in human stroke whether NMDA receptor antagonism can be neuroprotective.
Penile erections during rapid eye movement (REM) sleep are a robust physiologic phenomenon in all normal healthy males, irrespective of age. Given the involuntary nature of erections in sleep, sleep-related erection (SRE) testing has been used to differentiate psychogenic from organic impotence. The historical background of nocturnal penile tumescence, its current use, and common misconceptions of SRE testing are discussed. An animal model has been developed to study SRE mechanisms and has provided a new neural model regarding REM-related erectile control. The implications of these recent data on clinical SRE evaluation are presented. Finally, guidelines regarding SRE testing with polysomnography have not been available, contributing to a decline in formal SRE testing even though erections in sleep are commonly evaluated by urologists using home screening devices that do not record sleep. We propose a set of clinical indications when formal SRE evaluation in a sleep laboratory should be considered.
Mller glia have been shown to be a potential source of neural regeneration in the avian retina. In response to acute damage Mller glia de-differentiate, proliferate, express transcription factors found in embryonic retinal progenitors, and some of the progeny differentiate into neurons and glia (Fischer and Reh [2001a] Nat. Neurosci. 4:247-252). However, most of the cells produced by proliferating Mller cells appear to remain undifferentiated. The purpose of this study was to test whether the neurogenic gene NeuroD can promote the differentiation of proliferating cells derived from the postnatal chick retina. We used recombinant avian retroviruses to transfect green fluorescent protein (GFP) or NeuroD. The majority of cells transfected with GFP remained undifferentiated, with a few cells differentiating into calretinin-immunoreactive neurons. Many cells transfected with the NeuroD-virus expressed calretinin, neurofilament, or visinin, while most cells remained undifferentiated. The number of calretinin-expressing cells that were generated was increased approximately 20-fold with forced expression of NeuroD. In addition, we found that cells transfected with NeuroD never expressed glutamine synthetase, a marker of mature Mller glia, suggesting that NeuroD suppresses glial differentiation. We conclude that NeuroD stimulates cells from the toxin-damaged chicken retina to acquire some neuronal phenotypes. We propose that most of these cells were derived from Mller glia.
Attention-deficit-hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), while largely thought to be a genetic disorder, has environmental factors that appear to contribute significantly to the aetiopathogenesis of the disorder. One such factor is pretern birth with vulnerable cerebrovascular homeostasis. We hypothesised that cerebral ischaemia at birth could contribute to persistent deficient dopaminergic neurotransmission, which is thought to be the pathophysiological basis of the disorder. We examined dopamine D(2/3) receptor binding with positron emission tomography (PET) using [11C] raclopride as a tracer, and continuous reaction times (RT) with a computerized test of variables (TOVA) in six adolescents (12-14 years of age, one female) who had been examined with cerebral blood flow (CBF) measurements at preterm birth and had a subsequent history of attention deficit. We found that high dopamine receptor availability ('empty receptors') was linked with increased RT and RT variability, supporting the concept of a dopaminergic role in symptomatology. High dopamine receptor availability was predicted by low neonatal CBF, supporting the hypothesis of cerebral ischaemia as a contributing factor in infants susceptible to ADHD.
Hypoxia-ischemia (H/I) as a result of asphyxia at term remains a major cause of neurologic disability. Our previous studies in the P7 rat model of perinatal H/I have shown that progenitors within the subventricular zone (SVZ) are vulnerable to this insult. Since many investigators are using transgenic and knockout mice to determine the importance of specific molecules in the evolution of damage after a stroke, there is a need to perform comparative studies on the relative vulnerability of the mouse SVZ. Here we assess damage to the SVZ of 5-, 7- and 10-day-old C57BL/6 mice after unilateral common carotid artery cauterization followed by 70 min of H/I (10% O2). Whereas 5- and 7-day-old mice sustained little SVZ damage as assessed by hematoxylin and eosin staining, there was a 16% reduction of cellularity in 10-day-old animals by 18 h of recovery. Additionally, swollen cells were observed in the medial region of the SVZ of 10-day-old mice. However, few caspase-3+ and TUNEL+ cells were observed in this region, which contains the putative neural stem cells. Rather, the majority of the dying cells were situated in the mediolateral and lateral tail of the SVZ. At 18 h of recovery, there was a 2-fold increase in the frequency of TUNEL+ cells in the ipsilateral SVZ as well as a 3-fold increase in the frequency of active-caspase-3+ cells. We conclude that progenitors within the neonatal mouse SVZ are vulnerable to hypoxic/ischemic insult. The demise of these early progenitors likely leads to depletion of neuronal and late oligodendrocyte progenitors, contributing to cerebral dysgenesis.
Using primary cultures of oligodendrocyte progenitors isolated from male and female neonatal rodent brains, we observed more oligodendrocytes in female-derived compared to male-derived cultures. To determine whether the observed differences were due to a differential effect of sex hormones on proliferation, we treated cultures with increasing doses of 17beta-estradiol, testosterone or progesterone and labeled cells with bromodeoxyuridine to identify cells in S phase. Treatment with 17beta-estradiol, but not progesterone or testosterone, delayed the exit of oligodendrocyte progenitor cells from the cell cycle. In addition, 17beta-estradiol treatment enhanced membrane sheet formation, while progesterone increased cellular branching. Interestingly, the estrogen modulator tamoxifen mimicked the effect of 17beta-estradiol on cell cycle exit, but not on membrane formation. Immunocytochemical localization of estrogen receptors (ERs) showed ERbeta mainly localized to the cytoplasm of oligodendrocytes, suggesting that the effect of 17beta-estradiol on membrane formation could be mediated by interaction with this receptor. We conclude that sex steroids differentially regulate oligodendrocyte progenitor number and myelin formation, possibly contributing to gender-specific differences in repair.
While extracellular signals play a major role in brain neurogenesis, little is known about the cell cycle machinery underlying mitogen stimulation of precursor proliferation. Current models suggest that the D cyclins function as primary sensors of extracellular mitogens. Here we define the mechanisms by which basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) stimulates cortical precursors, with particular attention to the responses of cell cycle promitogenic and antimitogenic regulators. bFGF produced a 4-fold increase in DNA synthesis and a 3-fold rise in bromodeoxyuridine labeling, suggesting that the factor promotes the G1/S transition. There was also a 3-fold increase in cyclin-dependent kinase 2 (CDK2) kinase activity, which is critical for S phase entry. CDK2 activation was apparently cyclin E dependent, since only its protein and mRNA levels were elevated at 24 h, whereas CDK2, p27KIP1 and p57KIP2 levels were unaltered. Late G1 phase CDK2/cyclin E activity depends on early G1 D cyclin function. Indeed, cyclin D1, but not cyclin D3, was upregulated selectively at 8 h after bFGF treatment, a time when cyclin E was unchanged. The sequential activation of cyclin D1 and cyclin E supports the idea that cyclin E gene transcription is regulated by cyclin-D/CDK4/6-mediated pRb phosphorylation and subsequent E2F transcription factor release. However, in addition to increased D1 cyclin, we unexpectedly detected a 75% reduction in p27KIP1 protein at 8 h, suggesting that both pro- and antimitogenic regulators are targets of extracellular mitogens during brain development.
Multipotent neural stem cells are present throughout the development of the central nervous system (CNS), persist into adulthood in defined locations and can be derived from more primitive embryonic stem cells. We show that SOX2, an HMG box transcription factor, is expressed in multipotent neural stem cells at all stages of mouse ontogeny. We have generated transgenic mice expressing enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) under the control of the endogenous locus-regulatory regions of the Sox2 gene to prospectively identify neural stem/progenitor cells in vivo and in vitro. Fluorescent cells coexpress SOX2 protein, and EGFP fluorescence is detected in proliferating neural progenitor cells of the entire anterior-posterior axis of the CNS from neural plate stages to adulthood. SOX2-EGFP cells can form neurospheres that can be passaged repeatedly and can differentiate into neurons, astrocytes and oligodendrocytes. Moreover, prospective clonal analysis of SOX2-EGFP-positive cells shows that all neurospheres, whether isolated from the embryonic CNS or the adult CNS, express SOX2-EGFP. In contrast, the pattern of SOX2-EGFP expression using randomly integrated Sox2 promoter/reporter construct differs, and neurospheres are heterogeneous for EGFP expression. These studies demonstrate that SOX2 may meet the requirements of a universal neural stem cell marker and provides a means to identify cells which fulfill the basic criteria of a stem cell: self-renewal and multipotent differentiation.
We have utilized subtractive suppression hybridization (SSH) to identify differentially expressed genes present in either neuroepithelial (NEP) cells or glial restricted precursor (GRP) cells. Eighteen clones enriched in GRP cells and 28 in NEP cells were identified. Five of the GRP-specific clones (tenascin C, cystatin C, GABA transporter 3, extracellular matrix molecule 2 and H2-4) were characterized further, and their glial specificity was confirmed by RT-PCR, in situ hybridization and immunocytochemistry. H2-4 (an expressed sequence tag) was shown to be part of chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan 3. Overall, our results show that SSH can be used to identify lineage- and stage-specific markers and that extracellular matrix molecules likely play important roles in the migration and differentiation of GRPs.
Neural precursor cells (NPCs) provide a new mode for delivery of genes and proteins to brain tumors. These cells exist both in the developing and the adult nervous systems of all mammalian organisms. They have the ability to self-renew, migrate to diseased areas of the brain and differentiate into neurons, astrocytes and oligodendrocytes. The migratory ability of NPCs and their capacity to differentiate into all neural phenotypes provides a powerful tool for the treatment of both diffuse and localized neurological disorders. NPCs have been used in transplantation to replace damaged cells and in cancer therapy to provide therapeutic proteins and vectors to eliminate malignant cells in the brain. This review focuses on the characteristics of NPCs and their experimental use in the therapy for brain tumors. Examples are provided of monitoring migration of NPCs by bioluminescence imaging in living animals and of using them to deliver the apoptotic protein, TRAIL, to kill tumor cells.
Over most of the past century of modern neuroscience, it was thought that the adult brain was completely incapable of generating new neurons. During the past 3 decades, research exploring potential neuronal replacement therapies has focused on replacing lost neurons by transplanting cells or grafting tissue into diseased regions of the brain. However, in the last decade, the development of new techniques has resulted in an explosion of new research showing that neurogenesis, the birth of new neurons, normally occurs in two limited and specific regions of the adult mammalian brain and that there are significant numbers of multipotent neural precursors in many parts of the adult mammalian brain. Recent advances in our understanding of related events of neural development and plasticity, including the role of radial glia in developmental neurogenesis and the ability of endogenous precursors present in the adult brain to be induced to produce neurons and partially repopulate brain regions affected by neurodegenerative processes, have led to fundamental changes in the views about how the brain develops as well as to approaches by which endogenous precursors might be recruited to repair the adult brain. Recruitment of new neurons can be induced in a region-specific, layer-specific and neuronal-type-specific manner, and, in some cases, newly recruited neurons can form long-distance connections to appropriate targets. Elucidation of the relevant molecular controls may both allow control over transplanted precursor cells and potentially allow the development of neuronal replacement therapies for neurodegenerative disease and other CNS injuries that do not require transplantation of exogenous cells.
Many members of the basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) family of transcription factors play pivotal roles in the development of a variety of tissues and organisms. We identify activities for the neural bHLH proteins Mash1 and Math1 in inducing neuronal differentiation, and in inducing the formation of distinct dorsal interneuron subtypes in the chick neural tube. Although both factors induce neuronal differentiation, each factor has a distinct activity in the type of dorsal interneuron that forms, with overexpression of Math1 increasing dI1 interneurons, and Mash1 increasing dI3 interneurons. Math1 and Mash1 function as transcriptional activators for both of these functions. Furthermore, we define discrete domains within the bHLH motif that are required for these different activities in neural development. Helix 1 of the Mash1 HLH domain is necessary for Mash1 to be able to promote neuronal differentiation, and is sufficient to confer this activity to the non-neural bHLH factor MyoD. In contrast, helix 2 of Math1, and both helix 1 and 2 of Mash1, are the domains required for the neuronal specification activities of these factors. The requirement for distinct domains within the HLH motif of Mash1 and Math1 for driving neuronal differentiation and cell-type specification probably reflects the importance of unique protein-protein interactions involved in these functions.
Cell migration plays an important role during the development of the retina. In this work we have studied the migration of newborn horizontal cells in avian embryonic retina. Using the pattern of the early expressed transcription factors Lim1 and Prox1 we have shown that horizontal cells migrate bi-directionally from their site of birth, close to the ventricular side, to the adjacent (vitreal) side of the neuroepithelium, where they align just next to the prospective ganglion cell layer before migrating back again to their final laminar position in the external part of the inner nuclear layer. The migration occurs between Hamburger and Hamilton stages 24 and 33, which is equivalent to embryonic day 4.5 and 8. Between stages 26 and 30 the horizontal cells reside close to the ganglion cell layer and intra ocular injections of a cytochalasin D, an actin polymerisation blocker that inhibit migration, at stage 29 interfered with the migration of the horizontal cells to their final destination. Furthermore, using biolistic gene transfer with a green fluorescence protein expression vector of retinal slices we were able to record ventricle-directed migration by time-lapse microscopy. Combining biolistics with immunohistochemistry we showed that transfected cells, which have also been translocated in a ventricular direction were positive for the horizontal cell markers Lim1 and Prox1. The alternative path of migration that is described in this work differs from the generally accepted one for horizontal cells and this knowledge will influence the view of how the molecular determination of horizontal cells is specified.
The inner plexiform layer (IPL) of the vertebrate retina comprises functionally specialized sublaminae, representing connections between bipolar, amacrine and ganglion cells with distinct visual functions. Developmental mechanisms that target neurites to the correct synaptic sublaminae are largely unknown. Using transgenic zebrafish expressing GFP in subsets of amacrine cells, we imaged IPL formation and sublamination in vivo and asked whether the major postsynaptic cells in this circuit, the ganglion cells, organize the presynaptic inputs. We found that in the lak/ath5 mutant retina, where ganglion cells are never born, formation of the IPL is delayed, with initial neurite outgrowth ectopically located and grossly disorganized. Over time, the majority of early neurite projection errors are corrected, and major ON and OFF sublaminae do form. However, focal regions of disarray persist where sublaminae do not form properly. Bipolar axons, which arrive later, are targeted correctly, except at places where amacrine stratification is disrupted. The lak mutant phenotype reveals that ganglion cells have a transient role organizing the earliest amacrine projections to the IPL. However, it also suggests that amacrine cells interact with each other during IPL formation; these interactions alone appear sufficient to form the IPL. Furthermore, our results suggest that amacrines may guide IPL sublamination by providing stratification cues for other cell types.
Patterning of the dorsal neural tube involves Bmp signaling, which results in activation of multiple pathways leading to the formation of neural crest, roof plate and dorsal interneuron cell types. We show that constitutive activation of Bmp signaling at early stages (HH10-12) of chick neural tube development induces roof-plate cell fate, accompanied by an increase of programmed cell death and a repression of neuronal differentiation. These activities are mimicked by the overexpression of the homeodomain transcription factor Msx1, a factor known to be induced by Bmp signaling. By contrast, the closely related factor, Msx3, does not have these activities. At later stages of neural tube development (HH14-16), dorsal progenitor cells lose their competence to generate roof-plate cells in response to Bmp signaling and instead generate dorsal interneurons. This aspect of Bmp signaling is phenocopied by the overexpression of Msx3 but not Msx1. Taken together, these results suggest that these two different Msx family members can mediate distinct aspects of Bmp signaling during neural tube development.
The mesencephalic dopamine (mesDA) system is involved in the control of movement and behavior. The expression of Pitx3 in the brain is restricted to the mesDA system and the gene is induced relatively late, at E11.5, a time when tyrosine hydroxylase (Th) gene expression is initiated. We show here that, in the Pitx3-deficient aphakia (ak) mouse mutant, the mesDA system is malformed. Owing to the developmental failure of mesDA neurons in the lateral field of the midbrain, mesDA neurons are not found in the SNc and the projections to the caudate putamen are selectively lost. However, Pitx3 is expressed in all mesDA neurons in control animals. Therefore, mesDA neurons react specifically to the loss of Pitx3. Defects of motor control where not seen in the ak mice, suggesting that other neuronal systems compensate for the absence of the nigrostriatal pathway. However, an overall lower activity was observed. The results suggest that Pitx3 is specifically required for the formation of the SNc subfield at the onset of dopaminergic neuron differentiation.
The role of target-derived BMP signaling in development of sensory ganglia and the sensory innervation of the skin was examined in transgenic animals that overexpress either the BMP inhibitor noggin or BMP4 under the control of a keratin 14 (K14) promoter. Overexpression of noggin resulted in a significant increase in the number of neurons in the trigeminal and dorsal root ganglia. Conversely, overexpression of BMP4 resulted in a significant decrease in the number of dorsal root ganglion neurons. There was no significant change in proliferation of trigeminal ganglion neurons in the noggin transgenic animals, and neuron numbers did not undergo the normal developmental decrease between E12.5 and the adult, suggesting that programmed cell death was decreased in these animals. The increase in neuron numbers in the K14-noggin animals was followed by an extraordinary increase in the density of innervation in the skin and a marked change in the pattern of innervation by different types of fibers. Conversely, the density of innervation of the skin was decreased in the BMP4 overexpressing animals. Further Merkel cells and their innervation were increased in the K14-noggin mice and decreased in the K14-BMP4 mice. The changes in neuron numbers and the density of innervation were not accompanied by a change in the levels of neurotrophins in the skin. These findings indicate that the normal developmental decrease in neuron numbers in sensory ganglia depends upon BMP signaling, and that BMPs may limit both the final neuron number in sensory ganglia as well as the extent of innervation of targets. Coupled with prior observations, this suggests that BMP signaling may regulate the acquisition of dependence of neurons on neurotrophins for survival, as well as their dependence on target-derived neurotrophins for determining the density of innervation of the target.
Mice lacking either bombesin receptor subtype (BRS)-3 or gastrin-releasing peptide receptor (GRP-R) exhibit feeding abnormalities. However, it is unclear how these receptors are associated with feeding regulation. In BRS-3-deficient mice, we found hyperphagia, subsequent hyperleptinemia, and brain leptin resistance that occurred after the onset of obesity. To explore the cause of this phenomenon, we examined changes in feeding responses to appetite-related neuropeptides in BRS-3-deficient, GRP-R-deficient, and wild-type littermate mice. Among orexigenic neuropeptides, the hyperphagic response to melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) was significantly enhanced in BRS-3-deficient mice but not in GRP-R-deficient mice. In addition, the levels of MCH-R and prepro-MCH mRNAs in the hypothalamus of BRS-3-deficient mice were significantly more elevated than those of wild-type littermates. There was no significant difference in feeding between BRS-3-deficient and wild-type littermate mice after treatment with bombesin (BN), although the hypophagic response to low-dose BN was significantly suppressed in the GRP-R-deficient mice. These results suggest that upregulation of MCH-R and MCH triggers hyperphagia in BRS-3-deficient mice. From these results, we assume that the BRS-3 gene deletion upsets the mechanism by which leptin decreases the expression of MCH-R and that this effect may be mediated through neural networks independent of BN-related peptides such as GRP-R.
To evaluate potential mechanisms for neuronal glucosensing, fura-2 Ca(2+) imaging and single-cell RT-PCR were carried out in dissociated ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus (VMN) neurons. Glucose-excited (GE) neurons increased and glucose-inhibited (GI) neurons decreased intracellular Ca(2+) ([Ca(2+)](i)) oscillations as glucose increased from 0.5 to 2.5 mmol/l. The Kir6.2 subunit mRNA of the ATP-sensitive K(+) channel was expressed in 42% of GE and GI neurons, but only 15% of nonglucosensing (NG) neurons. Glucokinase (GK), the putative glucosensing gatekeeper, was expressed in 64% of GE, 43% of GI, but only 8% of NG neurons and the GK inhibitor alloxan altered [Ca(2+)](i) oscillations in approximately 75% of GK-expressing GE and GI neurons. Insulin receptor and GLUT4 mRNAs were coexpressed in 75% of GE, 60% of GI, and 40% of NG neurons, although there were no statistically significant intergroup differences. Hexokinase-I, GLUT3, and lactate dehydrogenase-A and -B were ubiquitous, whereas GLUT2, monocarboxylate transporters-1 and -2, and leptin receptor and GAD mRNAs were expressed less frequently and without apparent relationship to glucosensing capacity. Thus, although GK may mediate glucosensing in up to 60% of VMN neurons, other regulatory mechanisms are likely to control glucosensing in the remaining ones.
Psychiatric symptomatology is often subjective, but it can be partly made more objective for the purposes of evaluation. Esquirol was the first modern psychiatrist to stress the need for a scientific approach to treatment evaluation. The kinetics of treatment is complex because different components of the clinical picture improve at a different pace. Assessment of treatment requires prior definition of end point, response, and nonresponse. Response is influenced by several factors, such as placebo effect, diagnostic category and subtypes, and patient heterogeneity. Treatment response may be predicted from clinical and biological parameters. This article lists the main causes of nonresponse, and suggests how to remedy them.

Current treatment options for neurodegenerative diseases are limited and mainly affect only the symptoms of disease. Because of the unknown and probably multiple causes of these diseases, they cannot be readily targeted. However, it has been established that apoptosis contributes to neuronal loss in most neurodegenerative diseases. A possible treatment option is to interrupt the signaling networks that link neuronal damage to apoptotic degradation in neurodegeneration. The viability of this option depends upon the extent to which apoptosis accounts for neuron loss, whether or not interruption of apoptosis signaling results in recovery of neurological function and whether or not there are significant downsides to targeting apoptosis. Several compounds acting at different sites in known apoptotic signaling networks are currently in development and a few are in clinical trial. If an apoptosis-targeted compound succeeds in slowing or halting neurological dysfunction in one or more neurodegenerative diseases, a new era in the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases will begin.
The achievement of efficient regulation and/or tissue-specific gene expression is one of the major goals for gene therapists. A number of inducible systems and tissue-specific promoters are currently available. Studies in vitro and in vivo have shown promising results in controlling gene expression. However, the achievement of efficient gene regulation in patients is still an open question. This review describes the main inducible systems and tissue-specific promoters in view of their potential therapeutic applications.
The aim of this study was to explore antecedents and sequelae of binge eating episodes. A sample of eating disorders (n = 154 women) was selected from a total of 1849 female respondents (out of 2500) recruited as part of a general population-based survey. Included participants met DSM-III-R criteria for anorexia nervosa (AN), bulimia nervosa (BN) or eating disorder not otherwise specified (EDNOS) based on the Survey for Eating Disorders (SEDs). Preliminary criteria for binge eating disorder (BED) were added. Results indicated that the most frequently reported antecedents and consequences of binge eating were emotional and physiological factors. There were significant differences between the different ED subgroups in their frequency of binge eating episodes. Regarding antecedents of a binge eating episode, the SEDs-defined ED subgroups had overall differences in frequency on &quot;stomach feeling&quot;. In particular, the BN-group reported &quot;euphoria&quot; more frequently than the BED and EDNOS-groups. Concerning consequences of a binge eating episode, there were overall differences between the ED subgroups on &quot;fall asleep&quot;, and in addition a borderline significance was found for &quot;disturbed by others&quot; (p = 0.059). None of the eight women in the AN group reported &quot;euphoria&quot; as a factor that terminated a binge eating episode. The findings may have important implications with regard to prevention and treatment of ED.

Many psychotropics on the market are generic forms and essentially similar products. Bioequivalence is the method used in order to demonstrate the therapeutic equi-valence between the reference drug and the new product. The principles, methods and limits of these studies are presented and illustrated by some examples for CNS drugs.
To assess the relative roles of sex chromosome genes and gonadal steroid hormones in producing sex differences in progesterone receptor (PR) expression in the forebrain of neonatal mice, we used mice in which the Sry gene had been deleted from the Y-chromosome and inserted as a transgene on an autosome in both XX and XY genotypes. Levels of PR immunoreactivity (PRir) in the anteroventral periventricular nucleus, the medial preoptic nucleus, and the ventromedial nucleus were significantly higher in mice that possessed an Sry transgene compared with mice that lacked an Sry transgene, regardless of their complement of sex chromosomes (XX vs. XY). This result suggests that sexual differentiation of PR expression in these regions is likely controlled mainly by gonadal hormones, not by the genetic sex of the brain cells. No differences in PRir were detected between wild-type XY mice with the Sry gene on the Y-chromosome and XY mice with the Sry transgene, suggesting that testicular hormones produced in these two genotypes have comparable effects on neural tissue.
The neuropeptide vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) exerts its actions through two structurally related G protein-coupled receptors (VPAC(1) and VPAC(2)). Pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) is also a potent agonist of VPAC(1) and VPAC(2) receptors as well as of a third, PACAP-specific receptor (PAC(1)). We report here the distribution of the VPAC(2) receptor in peripheral tissues of the mouse, determined by receptor autoradiography using [(125)I]VIP and the selective VPAC(2) receptor agonist [(125)I]Ro25-1553 in wild-type and VPAC(2) receptor-null mice. In addition, displacement experiments with the VPAC(2)-selective agonist Ro25-1553 and the VPAC(1)-selective agonist [K(15),R(16),L(27)]VIP(1-7)/GRF(8-27) were performed using the universal radioligand [(125)I]VIP. The VPAC(2) receptor is found predominantly in smooth muscle (in blood vessels and in the smooth muscle layers of the gastrointestinal and reproductive systems), the basal part of the mucosal epithelium in the colon, lung, the vasculature of the kidney, adrenal medulla, and retina. Unexpectedly, the receptor was also present in thyroid follicular cells and acinar cells of the pancreas, tissues that have not been found to express the receptor in other species, and in very large amounts in the lung. Our data suggest novel functions of the VPAC(2) receptor and additional potential therapeutic uses of drugs acting at the receptor (including the treatment of erectile dysfunction), but our results also indicate that caution should be exercised in using the mouse as an animal model for the evaluation of VIP analogs intended for diagnostic or therapeutic use in man.

The role of elevated neuroactive amine exposure during embryonic and early postnatal development on seizure threshold and epileptogenesis was examined using both electrical and pentylenetetrazol (PTZ) kindling in monoamine oxidase A knockout (MAO(A) KO) mice and their wildtype, parental strain (C3H). In the first experiment permanent bilateral electrodes were implanted in the amygdala of both C3H and MAO(A) KO mice. The mice had their afterdischarge threshold determined and then seizures were kindled daily for a total of 20 days. We observed that the MAO(A) KO mice had lower afterdischarge thresholds and less severe seizures compared to the C3H mice. In the second experiment, seizures were elicited in experimentally naive mice using 50mg/kg of PTZ once daily for 7 days. We observed that the MAO(A) KO mice had shorter latencies to the onset of the first seizure, shorter total duration of seizures and fewer seizures per day. Overall the results of both experiments suggest that MAO(A) KO mice have an increased susceptibility to seizures, but are more resistant to epileptogenesis. We conclude that the high levels of neuroactive amines in the MAO(A) KO mice reorganize the brain to make the mice more susceptible to seizures but the remaining high levels of serotonin and norepinephrine likely inhibit epileptogenesis.
Occasionally, but more often than has been reported, true epileptic seizures are triggered by non-epileptic syncopes. This combination of syncope and epileptic seizure has been called an anoxic-epileptic seizure. A few examples of such anoxic-epileptic seizures, including the induction of status epilepticus, have been reported in books and medical journals, but no video-recordings have been published. We show here home video recordings of the first three known examples of the transition from the triggering syncope and anoxic seizure, to the subsequent epileptic seizure. In the first two children, a neurally-mediated syncope, probably mediated by prolonged expiratory apnoea (so-called breath-holding spells), induces a long, clonic epileptic seizure with some features of myoclonic absence. In the third example, a compulsive Valsalva in an older autistic child provokes a vibratory tonic epileptic seizure. In addition, we show two further video clips of the most usual type of epileptic seizure induced by syncopes in very young children. In one, the video recording begins after the end of the triggering syncope and shows a rhythmic clonic seizure that includes repetitive vocalizations. The final recoding is of a spontaneous epileptic seizure with features of myoclonic absence: this child had both epilepsy and identical episodes induced by syncopes, that is, anoxic- epileptic seizures. Not only paediatricians and paediatric neurologists, but also adult neurologists and epileptologists in general, should be aware of the important clinical scenario of true epileptic seizures induced by syncopes. This phenomenon is not considered in any international classification. (Published with videosequences)
Chemokines regulate the chemotaxis, development, and differentiation of many cell types enabling the regulation of routine immunosurveillance and immunological adaptation. CC chemokine receptor 1 (CCR1) is the target of 11 chemokines. This promiscuity of receptor-ligand interactions and the potential for functional redundancy has led us to investigate the selective activation of CCR1-coupled pathways by known CCR1 agonists. Chemokines leukotactin-1, macrophage inflammatory protein (MIP)-1alpha, monocyte chemotactic peptide (MCP)-3, RANTES, and MIP-1delta all inhibited adenylyl cyclase activity in cells transiently transfected with CCR1. In contrast, only MIP-1delta was unable to signal via G14-, G16- or chimeric 16z44-coupled pathways. In a stable cell line expressing CCR1 and Galpha14, all of these five chemokines along with hemofiltrate CC chemokine (HCC)-1 and myeloid progenitor inhibitory factor (MPIF)-1 were able to stimulate G(i/o)-coupled pathways, but MIP-1delta, HCC-1 and MPIF-1 were unable to activate G14-mediated stimulation of phospholipase Cbeta activity. In addition, MIP-1delta was unable to promote the phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase and c-Jun N-terminal kinase. This suggests that different chemokines are able to selectively activate CCR1-coupled pathways, probably because of different intrinsic ligand efficacies. CCR1 and Galpha14 or Galpha16 are co-expressed in several cell types and we hypothesize that selective activation of chemokine receptors provides a mechanism by which chemokines are able to fine-tune intracellular signaling pathways.
Abstract Acute cocaine administration increases phosphorylation of dopamine and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein (M(r) 32 kDa) (DARPP-32) at threonine (Thr)-34, whereas repeated cocaine administration increases DARPP-32 phosphorylation at Thr-75 in Sprague-Dawley rat striatum. Repeated acetyl-l-carnitine (ALCAR) administration persistently increases dopamine outflow in the nucleus accumbens. The present study examined the effect of repeated ALCAR administration on the DARPP-32 phosphorylation pattern in the nucleus accumbens and caudate-putamen. ALCAR increased phosphoThr-34 DARPP-32 levels and decreased phosphoThr-75 DARPP-32 levels, after 1 and 10 days of washout. We compared the effects of repeated cocaine and repeated ALCAR administrations on the behavioural response to cocaine challenge and on the DARPP-32 phosphorylation pattern and cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5) levels in the striatum. We also studied whether ALCAR administered daily during or after cocaine sensitization procedure would interfere with the effects of cocaine. When the response to the cocaine challenge was assessed, cocaine- and ALCAR-treated rats showed a similar sensitized behavioural response, and rats receiving combined cocaine and ALCAR treatments, irrespective of treatment order, also showed a sensitized response. A week after the cocaine challenge, the two drugs had induced opposite modifications in DARPP-32 phosphorylation, as cocaine increased phosphorylation at Thr-75, while ALCAR increased phosphorylation at Thr-34. In cocaine plus ALCAR treated rats, irrespective of treatment order, ALCAR administration antagonized cocaine effects on DARPP-32 phosphorylation. Moreover, cocaine, but not ALCAR, increased DeltaFosB and Cdk5 expression, and the increase in Cdk5 was antagonized by ALCAR administration in rats receiving combined treatments. These effects were relatively persistent, as they were still present 7 days after the last treatment.
Activating transcription factor-3 (ATF3) is a member of the ATF/CREB transcription factor superfamily and is induced in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) cells after nerve injury. In order to study the regulation of ATF3, we have examined the effect of nerve growth factor (NGF) and glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) on ATF3 expression. In untreated rats, sciatic nerve transection induced ATF3 immunoreactivity in 82% of L4 DRG cells at 14 days after axotomy. Intrathecal delivery of NGF or GDNF for 2 weeks commencing immediately after injury reduced the ATF3 expression to 35 and 23% of DRG cells, respectively. Cell size analysis indicated that NGF had protected a population of mainly small- to medium-sized cells, but that the GDNF had protected a population of both small and large cells. This effect was confirmed by double labelling for P2X(3), CGRP and 200 kDa neurofilament, markers for small peptide-poor cells, peptide-rich cells and large cells, respectively. Thus GDNF reduced the percentage of ATF3-immunoreactive P2X(3) cells from 70 to 4%, and the percentage of ATF3-immunoreactive neurofilament cells from 63 to 24%. NGF was less effective than GDNF in reducing ATF3 expression in these cell types, but reduced the percentage of ATF3-immunoreactive CGRP cells from 10% to &lt; 1%. These results show that ATF3 expression in specific populations of DRG cells can be modulated by exogenous supplementation of specific trophic factors, and suggest that ATF3 expression may normally be induced by the loss of target-derived NGF and GDNF.
The neuropeptide galanin induces performance deficits in a wide range of cognitive tasks in rodents. Three G-protein-coupled galanin receptor subtypes, designated GAL-R1, GAL-R2 and GAL-R3, have been cloned. The present study examined the role of GAL-R1 in cognition by testing mice with a null mutation in Galr1 on several different types of learning and memory tasks. Assessments of general health, neurological reflexes, sensory abilities and motor functions were conducted as control measures. Mutant mice were unimpaired in social transmission of food preference and the Morris water maze. In tests of fear conditioning, mutant mice were unimpaired in a delay version of cued fear conditioning. However, mice homozygous for the null mutation were impaired in a trace version of cued fear conditioning. Mutant mice were unimpaired in contextual fear conditioning, whether training was by the delay or trace protocol. General health, neurological reflexes, sensory abilities and motor functions did not differ across genotypes, indicating that the trace fear conditioning deficit was not an artifact of procedural disabilities. The findings of normal performance on several cognitive tasks and a selective deficit in trace cued fear conditioning in homozygous GAL-R1 mutant mice are discussed in terms of hypothesized roles of the GAL-R1 subtype. The generally normal phenotype of GAL-R1 null mutants supports the use of this line for identification of the receptor subtypes that mediate the cognitive deficits produced by exogenous galanin.


Previous work has indicated that after exposure to a moving stimulus, people are able to produce predictive smooth eye movements prior to reappearance of the stimulus. Here, we investigated whether subjects are able to extract relevant velocity information from two simultaneously presented targets and use this information to produce a subsequent predictive response. A trial consisted of a series of two or five presentations of moving stimuli, preceded 500 ms earlier by an audio warning cue. In the first one or four presentations, subjects fixated during the presentation of two moving targets and in the final presentation they tracked a single moving target. During fixation, two moving targets were presented concurrently, originating from the fixation point and moving horizontally to the right at differing velocities (10, 20, 30 or 40 degrees /s), with each target being presented at the same velocity throughout a trial. In the tracking presentation, the fixation cross was extinguished and only a single target was presented, which the subjects were required to track with their eyes. To cue which of the two targets would be presented, the appropriate target was presented statically at the same time as the audio warning cue. A significant relationship was found between eye velocity 100 ms after the start of the tracking target (i.e. prior to visual feedback) and the cued target velocity. Thus, subjects were able to make predictive eye movements that were of appropriate velocity for the cued target, despite fixating and being uncertain which target was relevant, during previous exposure.
The ventral part of the third visual cortical complex, the ventral posterior area (VP) or V3v, is located between the ventral half of visual areas V2 and V4. Because of its location and the physiological properties of its neurons, VP has been considered to be involved in the ventral stream visual areas. The ventral stream visual areas such as V4 and TEO receive projections from the cytochrome oxidase (CO)-rich thin stripes and CO-poor interstripe regions of V2; however, which CO-modules project to VP remains unclear. Moreover, it is not clear whether V1 projects to VP. We injected retrograde tracers into VP and found that VP receives projections from V2 neurons not only in the CO-rich thin stripes and CO-poor interstripe regions but also in the CO-rich thick stripes. We also confirmed the virtual absence of inputs from V1 to VP. These results support the hypothesis that VP constitutes a distinct extrastriate visual area and also suggest that, in addition to color and shape information, VP may also process visual information related to space and disparity.
The temporal processing in the encoding of head rotation was investigated by comparing the dynamics of vestibular nuclei neurons with those of the regularly and irregularly firing semicircular canal afferents in alert rhesus monkeys. During earth-vertical axis rotations, neurons without eye movement sensitivity differed in their response dynamics from both regularly and irregularly firing semicircular canal afferents. At high frequencies, central responses increased in sensitivity and maintained phase leads of nearly 30 degrees relative to head velocity. These persistent high-frequency phase leads resembled those of irregularly firing (but not regularly firing) semicircular canal afferents. However, at low frequencies, central responses exhibited significantly smaller phase leads than those of irregularly firing semicircular canal afferents, and dynamics resembled more those of the regularly firing afferents. The response dynamics of central non-eye movement cells were significantly different from those of position-vestibular-pause and eye-head neurons (collectively referred to as eye movement cells). In contrast to the persistent phase leads of non-eye movement neurons, all eye movement cells modulated closely in phase with head velocity at all frequencies down to 0.05 Hz during visual suppression tasks. Vertical canal non-eye movement neurons that were insensitive to both translations and static head tilts led head velocity by approximately 5-30 degrees during high-frequency earth-horizontal axis rotations. Unlike the earth-vertical axis responses that led head velocity at low frequencies by as much as 20-40 degrees, vertical canal neurons only slightly led or even lagged behind head velocity during low-frequency earth-horizontal axis rotations. Posterior canal central non-eye movement cells lagged behind head velocity significantly more than anterior canal neurons. These frequency dependencies of central vestibular neurons in comparison with those of the afferents suggest that both low- and high-pass filtering might be necessary to convert primary semicircular canal afferent response dynamics to central neuron ones.
Rotational head motion in vertebrates is detected by the three semicircular canals of the vestibular system whose innervating primary afferent fibers encode movement information in specific head planes. In order to further investigate the nature of vestibular central processing of rotational motion in rhesus monkeys, it was first necessary to quantify afferent information coding in this species. Extracellular recordings were performed to determine the spatial and dynamic properties of semicircular canal afferents to rotational motion in awake rhesus monkeys. We found that the afferents innervating specific semicircular canals had maximum sensitivity vectors that were mutually orthogonal. Similar to other species, afferent response dynamics varied, with regular firing afferents having increased long time constants ( t(1)), decreased cupula velocity time constants ( t(v)), and decreased fractional order dynamic operator values ( s(k)) as compared to irregular firing afferents.
Pictorial illusions bias our judgments about certain visual attributes. Such illusions are therefore only expected to influence a task if these attributes are used to perform the task. When pointing to a position, different visual attributes could be used to guide the hand: direction and distance (or length) of the required displacement (vector coding) or the final position (position coding). In this study we used the Brentano illusion (an illusion of length) to determine which attributes are used in pointing. Several conditions were tested in which the visibility of the hand and the stimulus were varied. The illusion influenced movements between two points along the shaft of the figure, but not movements perpendicular to the shaft. When the hand and/or target were invisible during the movement, the influence of the illusion increased. Pointing movements under different visual conditions were based on different relative contributions of position and vector coding. The contribution of vector coding was always rather modest.
In five experiments we compared prosaccade and antisaccade performance in normal human observers. This was first examined for visual stimulation in temporal or nasal hemifields, under monocular viewing. Prosaccades were faster following temporal than nasal stimulation, in accordance with previous results. The novel finding was that the opposite pattern was observed for antisaccades, consistent with a difficulty in overcoming a stronger prosaccade tendency after temporal-hemifield stimulation. A second experiment showed that these results were not simply due to antisaccades following nasal stimulation benefitting from being made towards a temporal place-holder. Prosaccades and antisaccades were then compared for visual versus somatosensory stimulation. The substantial latency difference between prosaccades and antisaccades for visual stimuli was eliminated for somatosensory stimuli. Antisaccades can thus benefit in relative terms when the competing prosaccadic tendency is weakened; but two further experiments revealed that not all manipulations induce opposing outcomes for the two types of saccade. Although reducing the contrast of visual targets can slow prosaccades and conversely speed antisaccades, this was not the case at the lowest contrast level used, where both types of saccade were slowed, thus indicating some common limiting source. Moreover, warning sounds presented shortly before a visual target speeded both prosaccades and antisaccades. These results illustrate that several factors which slow prosaccades can speed antisaccades (consistent with competition between different pathways); but also reveal some notable exceptions, where both types of saccade are slowed or speeded together, suggesting some common pathways that may precede competition over the direction of the saccade.
Working memory is implicated in various higher-order cognitive operations. We hypothesized that the availability of a temporal representation in working memory would limit the extent of cortico-cortical coupling necessary to undertake a self-paced rhythmic movement. To this end we examined modulations in cortico-cortical interactions as determined by EEG coherence during a delay interval and subsequent movement reproduction. Right hand movement was initially paced by a metronome beat every 0.9 s, followed by a delay interval, after which hand movement was repeated in an unpaced manner. Movement reproduction after a long (22.5 s, corresponding to 25 movement cycles) compared to a short (5.4 s, corresponding to 6 movement cycles) delay interval was associated with an increased degree of functional coupling in the beta frequency band (12-30 Hz) of the left (movement-driving) hemisphere (F3-FC3, F3-C3 and F3-P3 connections) as well as mesial regions (FCz-FC3, FCz-C3 and Cz-FC3 connections) even though overall behavioral characteristics were not influenced. In addition, analysis of the EEG coherence in the delay period revealed a bilateral frontal network (F3-F4, F3-FC4, F4-FC3 and FC3-FC4 connections). Activity in the latter tended to be synchronized in the theta band (4-8 Hz) and was significantly less strong at 22.5 s than 5.4 s. These data suggest that working memory may be partly subserved by synchronization in a bilateral frontal network and may provide an intrinsic contextual influence that shapes the pattern of cortico-cortical interaction during a given task.
This study assessed the involvement of NMDA and group I metabotropic glutamate receptors, and tachykinin NK1 and NK3 receptors, in central sensitization of withdrawal reflexes in the decerebrated rabbit. Reflexes evoked in the ankle flexor tibialis anterior and the knee flexor semitendinosus by electrical stimulation at the base of the toes were enhanced for 29-63 min after application of 20% mustard oil to the tips of the toes. Selective antagonists of mGlu1, mGlu5, NMDA and NR2B-subunit-containing NMDA glutamate receptors, as well as NK1, and NK3 receptors, and a non-selective blocker of all tachykinin receptors, were assessed for their effects on the magnitude and duration of the increase in reflexes induced by mustard oil. Dizocilpine, an antagonist of all NMDA receptors (1 mg intrathecal) abolished facilitation of tibialis anterior reflexes and significantly reduced the magnitude and duration of increase of the semitendinosus response. The NR2B-subtype selective antagonist CP-101,606 decreased the magnitude of facilitation of both reflexes but had no effect on duration of enhancement. Selective antagonists for the mGlu1 (CPCCOEt, 1-3 mg intrathecal), mGlu5 (MPEP, 0.2-1 mg intrathecal), NK1 (L-733,060, 0.3 mg intrathecal) or NK3 (SR 142,801, 1 mg kg(-1) i.v.) receptors had no effect on the amplitude or duration of sensitization. However, the non-selective tachykinin receptor blocker ZD-6021 (0.3 mg intrathecal) reduced the amplitude but not the duration of sensitization in the flexor reflexes. Combination of ZD-6021 with CP-101,606 (doses as above) decreased both aspects of the sensitization response. Dizocilpine reduced reflexes evoked from the heel per se, and dizocilpine, CP-101,606 and ZD-6021 reduced arterial blood pressure. Otherwise the drugs used had no effects on baseline variables. The present data confirm the importance of NMDA receptors as a critical part of the process of central sensitization, provide no evidence for a role of metabotropic glutamate receptors, and show that simultaneous blockade of all tachykinin receptors is required to reveal their role in hyperalgesia. The data further indicate that a combined pharmacological approach offers a potential way forward for the development of new antihyperalgesic agents.
Ischemic stroke is a major public health problem worldwide. The potential to cure stroke patients with intravenous thrombolytic therapy has evolved to the use of intra-arterial thrombolytic agents. Fewer than 200 patients have been enrolled in randomized trials of intra-arterial therapy. In this article the authors have reviewed the literature listed in MEDLINE and EMBase, and searched relevant articles to examine the role of fibrinolytic agents in acute interventional stroke therapy. Only English language articles reporting five or more patients were included. Outcomes were defined at 90 days. Good outcome was defined on the modified Rankin Scale. Symtpomatic hemorrhage was defined as hemorrhage in the setting of clinical deterioration in the first 24 to 48 h. The search identified 57 studies of which 44 reported usable data. Only three randomized trials were reported. Of a total of 1140 patients, most (73%) were treated open-label with urokinase (Abbokinase, Abbott Laboratories). The best outcomes were reported in case series and slightly worse outcomes were reported in clinical trials. Overall, it was not possible to distinguish whether one agent was superior to the others. There is a paucity of published evidence on intra-arterial therapy for acute ischemic stroke. Alteplase (Activase, Genentech Inc.) is currently the drug of choice simply because it is available and it is the current intravenous standard. Further trials and developments are anticipated.
The formation of brain edema, commonly occurring as a potentially lethal complication of acute hyponatremia, is delayed following knockout of the water channel aquaporin-4 (AQP4). Here we show by high-resolution immunogold analysis of the blood-brain-barrier that AQP4 is expressed in brain endothelial cells as well as in the perivascular membranes of astrocyte endfeet. A selective removal of perivascular AQP4 by alpha-syntrophin deletion delays the buildup of brain edema (assessed by Diffusion-weighted MRI) following water intoxication, despite the presence of a normal complement of endothelial AQP4. This indicates that the perivascular membrane domain, which is peripheral to the endothelial blood-brain barrier, may control the rate of osmotically driven water entry. This study is also the first to demonstrate that the time course of edema development differs among brain regions, probably reflecting differences in aquaporin-4 distribution. The resolution of the molecular basis and subcellular site of osmotically driven brain water uptake should help design new therapies for acute brain edema.
Hydrogen sulfide (H2S) modifies hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP) and functions as a neuromodulator. Here, we show that H2S increases intracellular Ca2+ and induces Ca2+ waves in primary cultures of astrocytes as well as hippocampal slices. H2S increases the influx of Ca2+ and to a lesser extent causes the release from intracellular Ca2+ stores. Ca2+ waves induced by neuronal excitation as well as responses to exogenously applied H2S are potently blocked by La3+ and Gd3+, inhibitors of Ca2+ channels. These observations suggest that H2S induces Ca2+ waves that propagate to neighboring astrocytes.
Understanding mechanisms associated with flavonoid neuroprotection is complicated by the lack of information on their ability to enter the CNS. This study examined naringenin and quercetin permeability across the blood-brain barrier (BBB), using in vitro (ECV304/C6 coculture) and in situ (rat) models. We report measurable permeabilities (P(app)) for both flavonoids across the in vitro BBB model, consistent with their lipophilicity. Both flavonoids showed measurable in situ BBB permeability. The rates of uptake (K(in)) into the right cerebral hemisphere were 0.145 and 0.019 ml min(-1) g(-1) for naringenin and quercetin, respectively. Quercetin K(in) was comparable to that of colchicine (0.006 ml min(-1) g(-1)), a substrate for P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Preadministration of the P-gp inhibitor PSC833 or GF120918 (10 mg/kg body wt) significantly increased colchicine K(in), but only GF120918 (able to inhibit breast cancer resistance protein, BCRP) affected K(in) for quercetin. Naringenin K(in) was not affected. The influence of efflux transporters on flavonoid permeability at the BBB was further studied using MDCK-MDR1 and immortalized rat brain endothelial cells (RBE4). Colchicine, quercetin, and naringenin all showed measurable accumulation (distribution volume, V(d) (microl/mg protein)) in both cell types. The V(d) for colchicine increased significantly in both cell lines following coincubation with either PSC833 (25 microM) or GF120918 (25 microM). Both inhibitors also caused an increase in naringenin V(d); by contrast only GF120918 coincubation significantly increased quercetin V(d). In conclusion, the results demonstrate that flavonoids are able to traverse the BBB in vivo. However, the permeability of certain flavonoids in vivo is influenced by their lipophilicity and interactions with efflux transporters.

Psychiatric disorders, particularly depression, and substance-use disorders (SUDs) are common comorbidities in patients who have chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection. Patients who are infected with HCV who are treated with interferon alfa (IFNalpha) are also at significant risk for IFNalpha-induced depression (incidence, ~20-30%) and other neuropsychiatric side effects that can affect treatment adherence, require dose reduction or discontinuation, and impact patient quality of life adversely. Because psychiatric illness and SUD comorbidities are so common, patients who have hepatitis C should be screened for these disorders. If these disorders are present, patients should be referred to a mental health care provider for appropriate treatment before therapy with IFNalpha is considered. Having a comanagement model of care that involves mental health care providers should help identify appropriate candidates for IFNalpha therapy. If preexisting depression responds to antidepressant treatment IFNalpha therapy can then be initiated. Patients who have other active psychiatric disorders can probably be offered IFNalpha therapy safely with appropriate monitoring and management involving a mental health care professional; however, there is a paycity of research in this area, and the few published studies have small sample sizes. If depression develops during IFNalpha therapy, most patients respond to treatment with selective serotonin-reuptake inhibitors, often allowing patients to continue receiving IFNalpha therapy. In addition to screening patients and treating those who have psychiatric disorders before IFNalpha therapy is started, early recognition of psychiatric disorders and neuropsychiatric side effects during IRNalpha therapy through continued screening and monitoring, with appropriate management, can potentially maximize HCV treatment adherence and possibly improve antiviral therapy outcomes.
Previous studies identified homologues to mammalian myelin genes expressed in the teleost central nervous system (CNS), including myelin basic protein (MBP), protein zero (P0), and a member of the proteolipid protein family, DM20. In addition, an uncharacterized 36-kDa (36K) protein is a major component of teleost myelin, but is not a major component of myelin in other species. In the present study, we sought to better understand myelin proteins and myelination in one teleost, zebrafish, by molecular characterization of the zebrafish 36K protein. Purified zebrafish CNS myelin was isolated and the amino acid sequences of peptides present in the 36-kDa band were determined by mass spectrometry. These sequences matched a previously uncharacterized EST in The Institute for Genome Research (TIGR) zebrafish database that is related to the short-chain dehydrogenase/reductase (SDR) protein family. In vitro expression of the zebrafish 36K cDNA in Neuro 2a cells resulted in a protein product that was recognized by a 36K polyclonal antibody. The zebrafish 36K mRNA and protein expression patterns were determined and correlated to other known myelin gene expression profiles. In addition, we determined by in situ hybridization that a human 36K homologue (FLJ13639) is expressed in oligodendrocytes and neurons in the adult human cortex. This study identified a major myelin protein in zebrafish, 36K, as a member of the SDR superfamily; an expression pattern similar to other myelin genes was demonstrated.
The structural and functional similarities between Mller cells and oligodendrocytes prompted the present study of the electrophysiological properties of Mller (glia) cells obtained from the retinae of control and myelin mutant taiep rats during the postnatal developmental period (P12-P180). The whole-cell configuration of the patch-clamp technique was used to characterize the general properties and the K+ currents from dissociated Mller cells. During the first 3 weeks of life, a decrease of the membrane resistance and an increase of the membrane potential were observed in Mller cells from both control and taiep rats. However, Mller cells from taiep rats never achieved the very negative membrane potential (-50 mV vs -80 mV) and the low membrane resistance characteristic for control cells. Furthermore, Mller cells displayed increased inward and outward K+ currents during postnatal development up to P30/60 in controls; however, in taiep rats, this increase ceased at P20/30, and low-amplitude currents persisted into adulthood. These results provide first evidence of physiological changes in retinal Mller cells as a consequence of a myelin mutation causing a progressive deterioration of the central nervous system (CNS) due to a disturbance of the microtubule network of oligodendrocytes. We hypothesize that the progressive dysmyelination process of the optic nerve, accompanied by functional deficits of retinal neurons (e.g., ganglion cells), induces physiological alterations of Mller cells.
Blood-brain barrier (BBB) breakdown is a feature of cerebral ischaemia, multiple sclerosis, and other neurodegenerative diseases, yet the relationship between astrocytes and the BBB integrity remains unclear. We present a simple in vivo model in which primary astrocyte loss is followed by microvascular damage, using the metabolic toxin 3-chloropropanediol (S-alpha-chlorohydrin). This model is uncomplicated by trauma, ischaemia, or primary immune involvement, permitting the study of the role of astrocytes in vascular endothelium integrity, maintenance of the BBB, and neuronal function. Male Fisher F344 rats given 3-chloropropanediol show astrocytic damage and death at 4-24 h in symmetrical brainstem and midbrain nuclear lesions, while neurons show morphological changes at 24-48 h. Fluorescent 10 kDa dextran tracers show the BBB leaking from 24 h, progressing to petechial haemorrhage after 48-72 h, with apparent repair after 6 days. BBB breakdown, but not the earlier astrocytic death, is accompanied by a delayed increase in blood flow in the inferior colliculus. An ED1 inflammatory response develops well after astrocyte loss, suggesting that inflammation may not be a factor in starting BBB breakdown. This model demonstrates that the BBB can self-repair despite the apparent absence of direct astrocytic-endothelial contact. The temporal separation of pathological events allows pharmacological intervention, and the mild reversible ataxia permits long-term survival studies of repair mechanisms.
Sensory innervation of the viscera serves a number of important functions, including regulation of visceral motility and secretory activity, and transmission of visceral sensations, including pain. There are many ways in which the sensitivity of visceral sensory neurones might be modulated, and these are discussed. Altered sensory neurone responsiveness may contribute to pathophysiological states such as irritable bowel syndrome, and the mechanisms leading to sensory neurone sensitisation offer novel targets for the treatment of such disorders.
Most afferent signals from the viscera do not give rise to conscious experience and yet they participate in the complex neural control of visceral functions. Surprisingly little information is available on the origin, morphology, and receptor functional characteristics of the nerve endings of most primary afferent neurones to the digestive tract. This review deals with the morphological nature of the afferent neurones that supply the gastrointestinal tract specifically.

Adenosine 5'-triphosphate receptors are known to be involved in fast excitatory postsynaptic currents in myenteric neurons of the digestive tract. In the present study, the distribution of P2X2 and P2X3 receptor mRNA was examined by in situ hybridisation while P2X2 and P2X3 receptor protein was localised by immunohistochemical methods. In addition, P2X2 and P2X3 receptors were colocalised with calbindin and calretinin in the myenteric and submucosal plexus. P2X2- and P2X3- immunoreactive neurons were found in the myenteric and submucosal plexuses throughout the entire length of the rat digestive tract from the stomach to the colon. Approximately 60%, 70% and 50% of the ganglion cells in the myenteric plexus of the gastric corpus, ileum and distal colon, and 56% and 45% in the submucosal plexus of the ileum and distal colon, respectively, showed positive immunoreactivity to the P2X2 receptor. Approximately 10%, 2% and 15% of the ganglion cells in the myenteric plexus of the gastric corpus, ileum and distal colon, and 62% and 40% in the submucosal plexus of the ileum and distal colon, respectively, showed positive immunoreactivity to the P2X3 receptor. Double-labelling studies showed that about 10-25% of the neurons with P2X2 immunoreactivity in myenteric plexus and 30-50% in the submucosal plexus were found to express calbindin or calretinin. About 80% of the neurons with P2X3 receptor immunoreactivity in the myenteric plexus and about 40% in the submucosal plexus expressed calretinin. Approximately 30-75% of the neurons with P2X3 receptor immunoreactivity in the submucosal plexus expressed calbindin, while none of them were found to express calbindin in the myenteric plexus.
Lormetazepam is a short-acting benzodiazepine hypnotic which is beneficial in shortening the time to onset of sleep. The aim of the study was to assess a new formulation of lormetazepam (oral solution) in comparison with lormetazepam tablets in out-patients with insomnia. This trial was an open randomized parallel group study conducted by 30 general practitioners. One hundred and eight patients took 0.5 mg on the first night and were allowed to increase their dosage by 0.25 mg (for oral solution) and 0.5 mg (for tablets), respectively, each day and every 2 days. The patients assessed the efficacy, acceptability and tolerance of lormetazepam using a diary card and a set of visual analogue scales assessing their sleep. Over 14 days of treatment, the mean daily dose of lormetazepam was lower in the oral solution group than in the tablets group (0.78 mg versus 0.97 mg). The cumulated dose of lormetazepam was lower with the oral solution (18% reduction). No significant difference between the two groups was found in the assessment of sleep characteristics. The occurrence of side effects did not differ between the two groups. These results suggest that a unitary dose as achieved by an oral solution of lormetazepam allows easier determination of the minimal individual effective dose.

Computational modeling of spreading depression (SD) has been used increasingly to study the different mechanisms that are involved in this phenomenon. One of them that is still under discussion involves the mechanisms that originate the extracellular electrical field responsible for the dc potential shift. The main goal of this paper is to present a mathematical derivation for the extracellular electric field that is incorporated in a SD model that has the basic structure of Tuckwell and Miura's model, but with the ionic variations calculated electrochemically. Electrodiffusion equations were used to describe the ionic movement of the four ions Na+, K+, Cl-, and Ca2+. These are mutually coupled by the electric field within the extracellular space (ECS). The results from the simulations show that the model is able to calculate the effect of the ionic changes along the ECS on the electric field, and to reproduce the SD in respect to the most important features that characterize the phenomenon experimentally in the retina or hippocampus. It is suggested that the extracellular negative field-potential shift during SD is due to an electrical field generated by a Goldman-Hodgkin-Katz equation acting within the ECS.







The development of therapeutic strategies to effectively treat negative symptoms remains one of the primary goals in the treatment of schizophrenia. Mirtazapine is the first of a new class of dual action compounds, the noradrenergic and specific serotonergic antidepressants (NaSSa), whose activity is related to the enhancement of noradrenergic and serotonergic transmission by a presynaptic alpha2 antagonism and postsynaptic 5-HT2 and 5-HT3 antagonism, respectively. This study was a 8-week double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial of 30 mg adjunctive mirtazapine to clozapine therapy in 24 patients with DSM-IV schizophrenia. The main finding at the end of the trial was a significant reduction on the Scale for the Assessment of Negative Symptoms (SANS) total scores in the mirtazapine group compared to placebo (P&lt;0.01) with a significant improvement on the SANS subscales avolition/apathy and anhedonia/asociality. The Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale total score at week 8 showed superiority of mirtazapine over placebo. These findings suggest a potential role for mirtazapine as an augmentation strategy in the treatment of negative symptoms of schizophrenia.




Podiatric physicians care for a wide spectrum of patients with neurologic illness. Often, patients with neurologic disease present to their podiatric physician with unrelated complaints that can be easily separated from their underlying neurologic condition. However, some neurologic conditions predictably lead to podiatric disease and, as such, are best treated in the context of the broader disease process. Neuropathies, spastic disorders, and cerebral palsy are examples of common neurologic disorders that can be associated with substantial podiatric manifestations; therefore, it is important for podiatric physicians to be familiar with these conditions. This article reviews the pathophysiology, clinical manifestations, and management of the common neurologic disorders affecting the foot.
The architecture and musculotopic organization of the facial motor nucleus in the Cebus apella monkey (a New World primate) were investigated using histological techniques and a multiple labelling strategy, in which horseradish peroxidase-conjugated neuroanatomical tracers (CTB-HRP and WGA-HRP) and fluorescent tracers were injected into individual facial muscles. The facial motor nucleus was formed by multipolar motoneurons and had an ovoid shape, with its rostrocaudal axis measuring on average 1875 micro m. We divided the nucleus into four different subnuclei: medial, intermediate, dorsal and lateral. Retrograde labelling patterns revealed that individual muscles were innervated by longitudinal functional columns of motoneurons. The columns of the orbicularis oculi, zygomaticus, orbicularis oris, auricularis superior, buccinator and platysma muscles were located in the dorsal, intermediate, lateral, medial, lateral and intermediate subnuclei, respectively. However, the motoneuron columns of the levator labii superioris alaeque nasi muscle and frontalis muscle could not be associated with a specific subnucleus. The present results confirm previous studies regarding the musculotopic organization of the facial motor nucleus. However, we observed some particularities in terms of the relative size of each column in C. apella, which might be related to the functional and behavioral importance of each muscle in the particular context of this primate.
Evidence in the past decade indicates that the mechanisms of anti-nociception of electroacupuncture (EAc) involve actions of neuropeptides (i.e., enkephalin and endorphin) and monoamines (i.e., serotonin and norepinephrine) in the central nervous system. Our present results using a subcutaneous injection of formalin to test pain sensation in mice provide further understanding of the involvement of serotonin in the actions of EAc-induced analgesia. Our observations show that (1) EAc at three different frequencies (2, 10 and 100 Hz) elicited an anti-nociceptive effect as determined by behavioral observations of reduced hindpaw licking; (2) exogenously intracerebroventricular administration of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) exhibited an analgesic effect, which partially mimicked the analgesic actions of EAc; (3) the anti-nociception of EAc at different frequencies was attenuated after reduced biosynthesis of serotonin by the administration of the tryptophan hydroxylase inhibitor, P-chlorophenylalanine, and (4) the 5-HT(1A) and 5-HT(3) receptor antagonists, pindobind-5-HT(1A) and LY-278584, respectively, blocked three different frequencies of EAc-induced analgesic effects, but the anti-nociceptive effect of 100 Hz EAc was potentiated by the 5-HT(2) receptor antagonist, ketanserin. These observations suggest that 5-HT(1A) and 5-HT(3) receptors partially mediate the analgesic effects of EAc, but that the 5-HT(2) receptor is conversely involved in the nociceptive response.
Alpha-synuclein is a major protein constituent of Lewy bodies and mutations in alpha-synuclein cause familial autosomal dominant Parkinson's disease. One explanation for the formation of perikaryal and neuritic aggregates of alpha-synuclein, which is a presynaptic protein, is that the mutations disrupt alpha-synuclein transport and lead to its proximal accumulation. We found that mutant forms of alpha-synuclein, either associated with Parkinson's disease (A30P or A53T) or mimicking defined serine, but not tyrosine, phosphorylation states exhibit reduced axonal transport following transfection into cultured neurons. Furthermore, transfection of A30P, but not wild-type, alpha-synuclein results in accumulation of the protein proximal to the cell body. We propose that the reduced axonal transport exhibited by the Parkinson's disease-associated alpha-synuclein mutants examined in this study might contribute to perikaryal accumulation of alpha-synuclein and hence Lewy body formation and neuritic abnormalities in diseased brain.
We investigated the role of vascular oxidative stress in the mechanisms of the impairment in cerebrovascular regulation produced by the amyloid-beta peptide (Abeta). In particular, we sought to provide evidence of vascular oxidative stress in mice overexpressing the amyloid precursor protein (APP) and to determine whether the Abeta-induced attenuation in functional hyperemia is mediated by free radical overproduction. Oxidative/nitrosative stress was assessed by 3-nitrotyrosine immunoreactivity, while free radical production was determined in cerebral microvessels by hydroethidine microfluorography. To study functional hyperemia the somatosensory cortex was activated by whisker stimulation while local blood flow was monitored by laser-Doppler flowmetry. It was found that APP mice show signs of oxidative/nitrosative stress in pial and intracerebral blood vessels well before they develop oxidative stress in neurons and glia or amyloid plaques. Treatment of cerebral microvessels isolated from wild-type mice with Abeta (1 microM) increased free radical production as assessed by the hydroethidine technique. The Abeta-induced attenuation of the increase in somatosensory cortex blood flow produced by whisker stimulation was prevented by treatment with the free radical scavengers MnTBAP or tiron. These data provide evidence that in APP mice vascular oxidative stress precedes the development of parenchymal oxidative stress, and that Abeta-produced vascular reactive oxygen species are involved in the attendant attenuation in functional hyperemia. Thus, vascular oxidative stress is an early event in the course of the brain dysfunction produced by APP overexpression and Abeta, and, as such, could be the target of early therapeutic interventions based on antioxidants.
We previously reported that during pro-estrus (high endogenous estrogen levels), brain damage after middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) was reduced in stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRSP) but not in normotensive Wistar Kyoto rat (WKY). In the present study, we examined the effect of exogenous estrogen on brain damage after MCAO in SHRSP and WKY. A 17beta-estradiol (0.025 mg or 0.25 mg, 21 day release) or matching placebo pellet was implanted into ovariectomized WKY and SHRSP (3 to 4 months old) who then underwent distal diathermy-induced MCAO 2 weeks later. Plasma 17beta-estradiol levels for placebo and 17beta-estradiol groups were as follows: WKY 0.025 mg 16.4 +/- 8.5 (pg/mL, mean +/- SD) and 25.85 +/- 12.6; WKY 0.25 mg 18.2 +/- 9.0 and 69.8 +/- 27.4; SHRSP 0.25 mg 20.7 +/- 8.8 and 81.0 +/- 16.9. In SHRSP, infarct volumes at 24 hours after MCAO were similar in placebo and 17beta-estradiol groups: SHRSP 0.025 mg 126.7 +/- 15.3 mm (n = 6) and 114.0 +/- 14.1 mm (n = 8) (not significant); SHRSP 0.25 mg 113.5 +/- 22.3 mm (n = 8) and 129.7 +/- 26.2 mm (n = 7) (not significant), respectively. In WKY, 17beta-estradiol significantly increased infarct volume by 65% with 0.025 mg dose [36.1 +/- 20.7 mm (n = 8) and 59.7 +/- 19.3 mm (n = 8) (P = 0.033, unpaired t-test)] and by 96% with 0.25 mg dose [55.9 +/- 36.4 mm (n = 8) and 109.7 +/- 6.7 mm (n = 4) (P = 0.017)]. Thus, 17beta-estradiol increased stroke damage in normotensive rats with no significant effect in stroke-prone rats. Despite being contrary to our hypothesis, our findings add substance to the recently reported negative effects of 17beta-estradiol in clinical studies.
In natural habitats, animals encounter cues from multiple odor sources that may impact foraging decisions. Previous work has focused on orientation behavior to one food odor source, and does not distinguish between mechanosensory and chemosensory guidance of orientation. The present study investigated how the spatial distribution of two food cues affects crayfish orientation behavior. Crayfish, Orconectes virilis, were presented with odor sources that were separated in an artificial stream. Orientation behavior was filmed from above and digitized at a rate of 1 frame per sec. Electrochemical recordings were taken to characterize the odor plume, and an acoustic doppler velocimeter was used to characterize the hydrodynamic structure of the artificial stream. Temporal changes in odor plume structure were seen as a result of the positioning of the odor sources. Changes in the intermittency of the odor pulses as well as concentration, rise time, and slope of the pulse were observed. Time series analysis showed that the lower frequency signals of the dual odor source were higher in energy than the single 1X or single 2X sources. Crayfish altered orientation strategies when presented with different spatial arrangements of food cues. In particular, the temporal aspects of the orientation pattern were most altered by the differences in odor presentations. Crayfish responded with faster walking speeds as a function of distance to the odor source and exhibited more consistent turning angles. This correlates with temporal changes in odor structure, and indicates that the temporal pattern of odor stimulation may be driving the temporal pattern of behavior.
Joubert syndrome is a rare genetic neurologic disorder associated with hypoplasia or absence of the cerebellar vermis. The classic form is characterized by ataxia, hypotonia, eye movement abnormalities, developmental delay, and abnormal breathing patterns. In contrast, other patients have the additional feature of kidney cysts. This population could represent a distinct form of Joubert syndrome. One case of Joubert syndrome with subcortical neuroepithelial cysts was recently described. We report a new case of Joubert syndrome with overlapping features, including diffuse progressive central nervous system neuroepithelial cysts and kidney cysts. Our data suggest that neuroepithelial cysts occur in conjunction with Joubert syndrome associated with kidney cysts.
Neurologic complications of celiac disease (CD) include ataxia and peripheral neuropathy, which can be the presenting symptoms and signs. Early diagnosis and intervention could prevent development of further neurologic and systemic complications. Questions remain regarding the prevalence of the neurologic complications, the pathophysiological mechanisms, and the effectiveness of therapy or response to a gluten-free diet.
Repetitive nerve stimulation (RNS) is a simple and rapid method for evaluation of neuromuscular transmission defects. Although the effect of exercise in conjunction with RNS is well recognized, it has not been standardized in actual patient and control groups. In a prospective study over a period of 1 year, the authors evaluated the effect of exercise in conjunction with RNS in comparison with conventional 3-Hz RNS at rest in the clinical setting. Fifty-four patients who were referred for possible neuromuscular transmission disorders, in addition to 35 healthy control subjects, were studied. Amplitude and area decremental responses with RNS at rest and after 20 seconds of maximal exercise at 1-minute intervals up to 3 minutes were evaluated. The use of RNS with exercise resulted in additional diagnostic yield of up to 36.4% compared with conventional 3-Hz RNS at rest. The standardized use of exercise with RNS is advocated for increasing its diagnostic yield in the neurophysiologic laboratory.
Using high resolution EEG and MEG and a realistic volume conductor model, the authors investigated spatio-temporal aspects of the sources of spikes in children with benign rolandic epilepsy. A 64-channel EEG and simultaneous 151-channel MEG of interictal spike activity in five children all having general and/or focal seizures were recorded. A spatio-temporal multiple signal classification (MUSIC) analysis was performed on the spike data. Sources having a complex spatio-temporal configuration as well as single stationary sources were found. Results for the EEG and MEG were different. In this group of five patients, both high resolution EEG and MEG revealed that in some cases sources well separated in space and time exist, whereas in other cases only single source activity can be resolved. For multiple sources, differences for EEG and MEG in timing and localization of activity suggest that sources are spatio-temporally distributed. Sources can propagate from initial activity in the finger/hand area around the central sulcus down to the mouth/tongue area.



We examined the abilities of aphasic patients to make grammaticality judgments on English sentences instantiating a variety of syntactic structures. Previous studies employing this metalinguistic task have suggested that aphasic patients typically perform better on grammaticality judgment tasks than they do on sentence comprehension tasks, a finding that has informed the current view that grammatical knowledge is relatively preserved in agrammatic aphasia. However, not all syntactic structures are judged equally accurately, and several researchers have attempted to provide explanatory principles to predict which structures will pose problems to agrammatic patients. One such proposal is Grodzinsky and Finkel's (1998) claim that agrammatic aphasics are selectively impaired in their ability to process structures involving traces of maximal projections. In this study, we tested this claim by presenting patients with sentences with or without such traces, but also varying the level of difficulty of both kinds of structures, assessed with reference to the performance of age-matched and young controls. We found no evidence that agrammatic aphasics, or any other subgroup, are selectively impaired on structures involving traces: Some judgments involving traces were made quite accurately, whereas other judgments not involving traces were made very poorly. Subgroup analyses revealed that patient groups and age-matched controls had remarkably similar profiles of performance across sentence types, regardless of whether the patients were grouped based on Western Aphasia Battery classification, an independent screening test for agrammatic comprehension, or lesion site. This implies that the pattern of performance across sentence types does not result from any particular component of the grammar, or any particular brain region, being selectively compromised. Lesion analysis revealed that posterior temporal areas were more reliably implicated in poor grammaticality judgment performance than anterior areas, but poor performance was also observed with some anterior lesions, suggesting that areas important for syntactic processing are distributed throughout the left peri-sylvian region.

Male threespine stickleback ( Gasterosteus aculeatus) use nuptial colors to attract mates and intimidate rivals. We quantified stickleback color and environmental lighting using methods independent of human perception to evaluate the information transmitted by male signals in a habitat where these signals are displayed. We also developed models of chromatic processing based on four cone photopigments (peak absorptions at 360, 445, 530, and 605 nm) characterized microspectrophotometrically in G. aculeatus and three other stickleback species. We show that a simple opponent mechanism receiving equally weighted inputs from cones with peak absorptions at 445 nm and 605 nm efficiently encodes variation in male throat colors. An orthogonal opponent mechanism-the difference between outputs of 530-nm cones and mean of outputs of 445- and 605-nm cones-produces a neural signal that could be used for species recognition and would be largely insensitive to variation in male throat color. We also show that threespine stickleback throats/photopigments are optimized for this coding scheme. These and other findings lead to testable hypotheses about the spectral processing mechanisms present in the threespine stickleback visual systems and the evolutionary interactions that have shaped this signal/receiver system.
This study examined the effect of low- and high-pulse frequency stimulus electroconvulsive therapy on seizure physiology and therapeutic outcome. Forty depressed patients randomly received either low (n = 19) or high (n = 21) pulse frequency stimulus during a course of right unilateral electroconvulsive therapy. The current and pulse width were kept constant whereas the duration was proportionately varied. The two groups were compared for seizure parameters and therapeutic outcome. Low frequency stimulus group had lower threshold and less subconvulsive stimulation. There were no differences in seizure durations, ictal cardiovascular responses and therapeutic outcome between the two groups. Low frequency stimulus produced seizure at lower stimulus dose without affecting seizure parameters and therapeutic effects.





Alcohol consumption is known to be a major contributing factor for the occurrence of traumatic brain injuries (TBIs) in both developed and developing countries. It also influences diagnosis, management and recovery from TBIs, subsequent to injury occurrence. The present report examines the association of alcohol in injury occurrence, and its impact on severity and outcome from TBIs. Subjects were identified from 7 major hospitals in the city of Bangalore, India with data collection undertaken by standardised methods. Alcohol users (n = 243) and non-users (n = 1310) were compared on various characteristics and injury details. Sixteen per cent of the injured patients were intoxicated at the time of hospital registration. While the incidence of road traffic injuries was similar in both the groups, falls were higher in the alcohol user group. Evening-and night-time consumption of alcohol was a major risk factor for injuries. Drivers and occupants of motorised two wheeler vehicles, and pedestrians were involved in crashes to a greater extent among alcohol users. Severity of brain injuries (based on Glasgow coma scale), duration of hospital stay, death and post-traumatic disabilities among alcohol users were significantly higher compared with non-users. With the emergence of injuries and alcohol as twin major public health problems, immediate efforts are required to reduce the burden in developing societies. Legislative and enforcement strategies along with education developed on epidemiological, clinical and public health research need to be co-ordinated, target oriented, visible and with stiffer penalties for achieving desired results.
The present study examined dual-task performance in elders with cognitive impairments and normal controls. The participants (N = 60; M age = 84.6) were recruited from residential facilities and the community. They were assigned to one of three groups: (1) cognitive impairment; (2) residential facility control; (3) community control. Two different dual-task conditions were comprised of simple tests that are presumably processed via separate perceptual modalities: 1 visual-manual and 1 auditory-verbal. The first condition consisted of a visual cancellation test and an auditory digit span. The second condition was comprised of an alternate form of the visual cancellation test and letter fluency. MANOVA examined the effect of cognitive status (3-level independent variable) on 3 indices of dual-task performance (letter fluency, digit span, visual cancellation). Analyses controlled for age, education and performance on each test when performed alone. The results revealed that the cognitive impairment group incurred significantly greater dual-task costs compared to both control groups. Furthermore, as was evident from discriminant function analyses, the dual-task measures were very accurate and better than the traditional neuropsychological measures at discriminating elders with cognitive impairments from normal controls. (JINS, 2004, 10, 230-238.)
This article argues that the multimodal processing of sensorial flows is a biological property of organisms. Already effective at birth, the multimodal processing of flows organizes the infant's environment and unifies his/her perception, permitting the perception of multimodal but unified objects. The multimodal processing of sensorial flows is also a setting event for self-perception because it allows the infant to resolve two crucial questions: what is the source of the flow and where is the action. Lastly the multimodal processing of sensorial flows identifies very early cognitive processes in newborn infants.
Amphoterin is a ubiquitous and highly conserved protein previously considered solely as a chromatin-associated, nuclear molecule. Amphoterin is released into the extracellular space by various cell types, and plays an important role in the regulation of cell migration, differentiation, tumorigenesis and inflammation. This paper reviews recent research on the mechanistic background underlying the biology of secreted amphoterin, with an emphasis on the role of amphoterin as an autocrine/paracrine regulator of cell migration.

The aim of the present study was to assess the chronic psychiatric consequences of the Vajont disaster in a group of survivors still living in the valley 36 years after the event. Thirty-nine subjects were assessed by means of a semistructured interview to investigate the extent of the traumatic experience and a structured diagnostic interview for the diagnoses of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and major depressive disorder (MDD). The degree of traumatic exposure significantly predicts the presence of PTSD. The lifetime frequency of full PTSD was 26%, and a further 33% of the sample displayed partial PTSD. Lifetime MDD was present in 28% of the subjects, and its prediction factors were female gender and number of losses of first-degree relatives in the disaster. Trauma-related fears are very common in the sample. A large-scale disaster, such as that of the Vajont valley, affects the psychological health of survivors for decades.
In the WAG/Rij rat, a model for human absence epilepsy, spike-wave discharges (SWD) and absence epileptic behavior develop after the age of 3 months. The rostral part of the reticular thalamic nucleus (rRTN) is involved in SWD. Ca(2+) channels play a central role in the initiation and maintenance of burst firing activity of thalamic cells. We hypothesize that a changed expression of alpha(1)-subunits of one or more high voltage-activated Ca(2+) channel types in the rRTN underlies the development of SWD. To test this hypothesis we compared 3- and 6-month-old WAG/Rij rats with nonepileptic, age-matched control rats. By immunocytochemistry, the expressions of alpha(1)1.3-, alpha(1)2.1-, alpha(1)2.2-, and alpha(1)2.3-subunits were shown in both strains, demonstrating the presence of Ca(v)1.3, Ca(v)2.1, Ca(v)2.2, and Ca(v)2.3 channels, respectively. Quantification of channel expression indicates that the development of SWD in WAG/Rij rats is concomitant with an increased expression of Ca(v)2.1 channels in the rRTN. These channels are mainly presynaptic, as revealed by double immunofluorescence involving the presynapse marker syntaxin. The mechanism by which this increase could be related to the occurrence of SWD has been discussed.
All songbirds learn to sing during postnatal development but then display species differences in the capacity to learn song in adulthood. While the mechanisms that regulate avian vocal plasticity are not well characterized, one contributing factor may be the composition of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDAR). Previous studies of an anterior forebrain pathway implicated in vocal plasticity revealed significant regulation of NMDAR subunit expression during the developmental sensitive period for song learning. Much less is known about the developmental regulation of NMDAR subunit expression in regions that participate more directly in motor aspects of song behavior. We show here that an increase in NR2A subunit mRNA and a decrease in NR2B subunit mRNA within the vocal motor pathway accompany song learning in zebra finches; however, manipulations that can alter the timing of song learning did not alter the course of these developmental changes. We also tested whether adult deafening, a treatment that provokes vocal change in songbirds that normally sing a stable song throughout adulthood, would render NMDAR subunit expression more similar to that observed developmentally. We report that NR2A and NR2B mRNA levels did not change within the anterior forebrain or vocal motor pathways after adult deafening, even after substantial changes in song structure. These results indicate that vocal plasticity does not require &quot;juvenile patterns&quot; of NMDAR gene expression in the avian song system.
Trafficking of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate (AMPA) receptors is an important determinant of synaptic strength. Our prior work suggests that D1 dopamine (DA) receptors regulate AMPA receptor trafficking. This is a possible mechanism by which amphetamine and cocaine, which indirectly stimulate D1 receptors, may alter synaptic strength in addiction-related neuronal circuits. Post-natal rat nucleus accumbens (NAc) cultures were used to study the role of protein kinase A (PKA) in D1 receptor regulation of the surface expression of the AMPA receptor subunit GluR1. Using an immunocytochemical assay that selectively detects newly externalized GluR1, we found that the rate of GluR1 externalization is enhanced by the D1 agonist SKF 81297 (100 nm-1 microm). This was blocked by a D1 receptor antagonist (SCH 23390; 10 microm) and by two different cell-permeable PKA inhibitors, KT5720 (2 and 10 microm) and RpcAMPS (10 microm). Conversely, the PKA activator SpcAMPS increased the rate of GluR1 externalization in a concentration-dependent manner. A maximally effective concentration of SpcAMPS (10 microm) occluded the effect of SKF 81297 (1 microm) on GluR1 externalization. Using similar cultures, we showed previously that D1 receptor stimulation increases GluR1 phosphorylation at the PKA site. Together, our findings suggest that PKA phosphorylation of GluR1 is required for GluR1 externalization in response to D1 receptor stimulation.
Chronic cocaine abuse induces long-term neural adaptations as a consequence of alterations in gene expression. This study was undertaken to identify those transcripts differentially regulated in the nucleus accumbens of human cocaine abusers. Affymetrix microarrays were used to measure transcript abundance in 10 cocaine abusers and 10 control subjects matched for age, race, sex, and brain pH. As expected, gene expression of cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART) was increased in the nucleus accumbens of cocaine abusers. The most robust and consistent finding, however, was a decrease in the expression of a number of myelin-related genes, including myelin basic protein (MBP), proteolipid protein (PLP), and myelin-associated oligodendrocyte basic protein (MOBP). The differential expression seen by microarray for CART as well as MBP, MOBP, and PLP was verified by RT-PCR. In addition, immunohistochemical experiments revealed a decrease in the number of MBP-immunoreactive oligodendrocytes present in the nucleus accumbens and surrounding white matter of cocaine abusers. These findings suggest a dysregulation of myelin in human cocaine abusers.
Glutamate receptor activation of mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase signalling cascades has been implicated in diverse neuronal functions such as synaptic plasticity, development and excitotoxicity. We have previously shown that Ca2+-influx through NMDA receptors in cultured striatal neurones mediates the phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) and Akt/protein kinase B (PKB) through a phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI 3-kinase)-dependent pathway. Exposing neurones to the Src family tyrosine kinase inhibitor PP2, but not the inactive analogue PP3, inhibited NMDA receptor-induced phosphorylation of ERK1/2 and Akt/PKB in a concentration-dependent manner, and reduced cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) phosphorylation. To establish a link between Src family tyrosine kinase-mediated phosphorylation and PI 3-kinase signalling, affinity precipitation experiments were performed with the SH2 domains of the PI 3-kinase regulatory subunit p85. This revealed a Src-dependent phosphorylation of a focal adhesion kinase (FAK)-p85 complex on glutamate stimulation. Demonstrating that PI3-kinase is not ubiquitously involved in NMDA receptor signal transduction, the PI 3-kinase inhibitors wortmannin and LY294002 did not prevent NMDA receptor Ca2+-dependent phosphorylation of c-Jun N-terminal kinase 1/2 (JNK1/2). Further, inhibiting Src family kinases increased NMDA receptor-dependent JNK1/2 phosphorylation, suggesting that Src family kinase-dependent cascades may physiologically limit signalling to JNK. These results demonstrate that Src family tyrosine kinases and PI3-kinase are pivotal regulators of NMDA receptor signalling to ERK/Akt and JNK in striatal neurones.
The vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) gene has been studied extensively as a prototype neuronal gene containing multiple cis-active elements that confer responsiveness to cell lineage, neurotrophic, and activity-dependent intrinsic and extrinsic cues. However, reporter genes containing the presumptive complete regulatory region 5' to the start of transcription do not confer tissue-specific gene expression in vivo. We therefore sought cis-regulatory elements downstream of the transcriptional start that might confer additional tissue-specific and tissue-restrictive properties to the VIP transcriptional unit. We report here a repressor element, similar to the canonical restrictive element-1 (RE-1), located within the first non-coding exon of the human VIP gene. The ability of this element to regulate VIP reporter gene expression in neuroblastoma and fibroblastic cells was examined. Endogenous VIP expression is high in SH-EP neuroblastoma cells, low but inducible in SH-SY5Y cells, and absent in HeLa cells. Endogenous RE-1 silencer factor (REST) expression was highest in SH-EP and HeLa cells, and significantly lower in SH-SY5Y cells. Transient transfection of a VIP reporter gene containing a mutated RE-1 sequence revealed an RE-1-dependent regulation of VIP gene expression in all three cell types, with regulation greatest in cells (SH-EP, HeLa) with highest levels of REST expression. Serial truncation of the VIP reporter gene further revealed a specific interaction between the RE-1 and a tissue-specifier element located 5 kb upstream in the VIP gene. Thus, REST can regulate VIP gene expression in both neuroblastic and non-neuronal cells, but requires coupling to the upstream tissue specifier element.
Altered energy metabolism, including reductions in activities of the key mitochondrial enzymes alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase complex (KGDHC) and pyruvate dehydrogenase complex (PDHC), are characteristic of many neurodegenerative disorders including Alzheimer's Disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD) and Huntington's disease (HD). Dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase is a critical subunit of KGDHC and PDHC. We tested whether mice that are deficient in dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase (Dld+/-) show increased vulnerability to 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP), malonate and 3-nitropropionic acid (3-NP), which have been proposed for use in models of PD and HD. Administration of MPTP resulted in significantly greater depletion of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons in the substantia nigra of Dld+/- mice than that seen in wild-type littermate controls. Striatal lesion volumes produced by malonate and 3-NP were significantly increased in Dld+/- mice. Studies of isolated brain mitochondria treated with 3-NP showed that both succinate-supported respiration and membrane potential were suppressed to a greater extent in Dld+/- mice. KGDHC activity was also found to be reduced in putamen from patients with HD. These findings provide further evidence that mitochondrial defects may contribute to the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases.
Oxidative stress is a major risk factor for Alzheimer's disease (AD) and other neurodegenerative disorders. Metals are known to be one of the factors that contribute to oxidative stress. Recently, we reported that the aberrant splicing isoform (PS2V) generated by skipping exon5 of the presenilin-2 (PS2) gene is a diagnostic feature of sporadic AD (SAD). PS2V is inducible by exposure of human neuroblastoma to hypoxia. We examined whether this aberrant splicing was caused by metal-induced oxidative stress, such as exposure to aluminum. As a result, we demonstrated that exposure to aluminum accelerated PS2V production induced by hypoxia. This acceleration of the production of PS2V to hypoxia was caused by chronic aluminum exposure, but was not related to the intracellular content of aluminum. HMGA1a is a mediator of PS2V production, and it was induced by aluminum as well as by hypoxia. Induction of HMGA1a was increased by chronic exposure to aluminum, and a nuclear extract containing HMGA1a bound to a specific sequence on exon5 of PS2 pre-mRNA, as reported previously. Finally, the acceleration of PS2V production induced by aluminum under hypoxic conditions reflected, but has not yet been directly shown to cause, vulnerability to endoplasmic reticulum stress. These results suggest that exposure to some metals can accelerate and enhance PS2V generation, and that hypoxia plus chronic exposure to metals may promote the development of AD.
The aim of this work was to evaluate whether oxytocin administered in male rats subcutaneously early in life in the absence or presence of food restriction during pregnancy has life-long effects on the alpha(2)-agonist binding sites in the nucleus of the solitarii tract (NTS), in the hypothalamus and the amygdala, as evaluated by quantitative receptor autoradiography. Maternal food restriction alone increased the affinity of the alpha(2)-agonist [(3)H]UK14.304 binding sites exclusively in the NTS. In offspring from ad libitum fed dams, oxytocin treatment significantly increased the density of alpha(2)-agonist binding sites in the NTS and in the hypothalamus. The K(d) value of the alpha(2)-agonist binding sites in the hypothalamus of these rats, but not in the other regions studied, was also significantly increased. In offspring from food-restricted dams, oxytocin treatment produced a significant increase of the B(max) values in the hypothalamus and the amygdala and the K(d) value of the alpha(2)-agonist binding sites in the NTS of these rats also was selectively and significantly increased. These results suggest that a postnatal, oxytocin-induced increase of regional alpha(2)-adrenoceptor function can be seen in adulthood by a persistent, regionally selective increase in the density of central alpha(2)-adrenoceptor agonist binding sites, in the absence of an affinity change in the NTS. Such a regional increase of alpha(2)-adrenoceptor signalling in adulthood may contribute to the anti-stress action of postnatal oxytocin. By contrast, after prenatal stress, the potential increase in alpha(2)-adrenoceptor signalling takes place via selective increases of density with no changes of affinity of the alpha(2)-agonist binding sites in the hypothalamus and the amygdala.
Elevated levels of cytokines have been detected in brains of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients, and altered peripheral levels of IL-1beta, TNFalpha and IL-6 have been reported in these patients. We studied the ability of PBMC from patients with AD, matched with a control group, to release pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines, and the effect of AChEI treatment on cytokine release. Our data indicates that AChEI treatment down-regulates IL-1, IL-6 and TNF, and up-regulates the expression and production of IL-4 in PBMC in AD patients, and that AChEI leads to the remodelling of the cytokine network, probably acting on the lymphocytic cholinergic system.
Mounting lines of evidence have suggested that brain inflammation participates in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease. Triptolide is one of the major active components of Chinese herb Tripterygium wilfordii Hook F, which possesses potent anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressive properties. We found that triptolide concentration-dependently attenuated the lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced decrease in [3H]dopamine uptake and loss of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive neurons in primary mesencephalic neuron/glia mixed culture. Triptolide also blocked LPS-induced activation of microglia and excessive production of TNFalpha and NO. Our data suggests that triptolide may protect dopaminergic neurons from LPS-induced injury and its efficiency in inhibiting microglia activation may underlie the mechanism.
Given the abnormalities in B-cell activity occurring in the central nervous system (CNS) of patients with multiple sclerosis (MS), we have explored the possibility that CNS inflammation induced in mouse models of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) triggers expression of molecules that control the development and functional organization of lymphoid follicles, the sites where B-cell responses are initiated. By reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), we find that gene expression of CXCL13, a chemokine involved in B-cell recruitment into lymphoid follicles, and BAFF, a key regulator of B-cell survival, is markedly and persistently upregulated in the CNS of mice with relapsing-remitting and chronic-relapsing EAE. Using immunohistochemical techniques, we also show the presence of lymphoid follicle-like structures containing B cells and a reticulum of CXCL13+ and FDC-M1+ follicular dendritic cells within the meninges of several mice undergoing progressive relapsing EAE. These observations indicate that, under chronic inflammatory conditions, the less immunoprivileged meningeal compartment is the site where ectopic lymphoid follicles preferentially develop and where pathogenic B-cell responses could be sustained in autoimmune disorders of the CNS.
The possible relationship between Guillain-Barr syndrome (GBS) and cancer is still controversial and the existence of a paraneoplastic GBS remains unconfirmed. To better define whether there is a relationship between GBS and malignancy, we compared the observed and the expected number of patients with tumours in a population-based cohort of subjects with GBS. Clinical differences between GBS patients with or without malignancies were analysed. Data were obtained from the Piemonte and Valle d'Aosta Register for GBS (PARGBS) (years 1990-1998). GBS was diagnosed according to NINCDS criteria. The number of expected cases of malignancy in the PARGBS population was calculated using the incidence rate of all types of cancer (ICD codes 140-208) in Piemonte [1985-1987], and in the most important town of this region, that is Turin (years 1993-1997). In the nine-year period, 435 incident patients with GBS were found. Nine of them developed cancer in the six months preceding or following GBS; in seven of them, the diagnosis of cancer and GBS was concomitant. The expected number of malignant tumours was 3.7 (using the incidence in Piemonte) and 3.8 (using the incidence in Turin); therefore, the odds ratios were 2.43 (95 % CI, 1.11-4.62) and 2.37 (95% CI, 1.09-4.50), respectively (p&lt;0.01). Although the cases with malignancies were clinically similar to the other cases of GBS observed through the Register, the mortality in GBS patients with cancer was higher and was the final cause of death in two patients affected by severe cancer. These results suggest a possible correlation between some cases of GBS and cancer. However, GBS in cancer patients does not meet all the criteria for paraneoplastic diseases.
Accumulating data indicate that oxidative stress (OS) plays a major role in the pathogenesis of multiple sclerosis (MS). Reactive oxygen species (ROS), leading to OS, generated in excess primarily by macrophages, have been implicated as mediators of demyelination and axonal damage in both MS and experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), its animal model. ROS cause damage to cardinal cellular components such as lipids, proteins and nucleic acids (e. g., RNA, DNA), resulting in cell death by necrosis or apoptosis. In addition, weakened cellular antioxidant defense systems in the central nervous system (CNS) in MS, and its vulnerability to ROS effects may increase damage. Thus, treatment with antioxidants might theoretically prevent propagation of tissue damage and improve both survival and neurological outcome. Indeed, several experimental studies have been performed to see whether dietary intake of several antioxidants prevents or reduces the progression of EAE. Although a few antioxidants showed some efficacy in these studies, little information is available on the effect of treatments with such compounds in patients with MS. Well-designed clinical studies using antioxidant intake, as well as investigations based on larger cohorts studied over a longer periods of time, are needed in order to assess whether antioxidant intake together with other conventional treatments, might be beneficial in treating MS.







Stroke is a heterogeneous syndrome caused by multiple disease mechanisms, but all result in a disruption of cerebral blood flow with subsequent tissue damage. This review covers the mechanisms responsible for regulation of the normal cerebral circulation, and how they are disrupted in disease states. A central concept in treating patients with acute ischaemic stroke is the existence of an ischaemic penumbra of potentially salvageable tissue, and the evidence for its existence in humans is reviewed.

Multiple sclerosis (MS) is an inflammatory demyelinating disorder of the CNS. A recent study identified 4 patterns of demyelination in active MS lesions. The characteristics of pattern II lesions suggested a primary inflammatory mechanism of myelin injury, while pattern III lesions showed features consistent with dying-back oligodendrogliopathy. The recruitment, differentiation, and activation of mononuclear phagocytes are dependent on the expression of chemokine receptors. Using immunohistochemistry we quantified cellular expression of CCR1 and CCR5 in pattern II (n = 21) and pattern III (n = 17) lesion areas of differing demyelinating activity. Infiltrating monocytes in both lesion patterns co-expressed CCR1 and CCR5, suggesting conserved mechanisms of monocyte recruitment into the CNS. In pattern II lesions, the number of cells expressing CCR1 significantly decreased while CCR5 increased in late active compared with early active demyelinating regions. In striking contrast, numbers of cells expressing CCR1 and CCR5 were equal in all regions of pattern III lesions. As hypoxia-like mechanisms may play a role in pattern III lesions, we extended these studies to white matter infarcts (n = 7) in which the expression of CCR1 better resembled pattern III than pattern II lesions. As judged by mononuclear phagocyte chemokine receptor expression, there appear to be distinct tissue environments in pattern II and III MS lesions.
Amyloid beta peptide (A beta) is widely believed to play a central and etiological role in Alzheimer disease (AD). A beta has been shown to have cytotoxic effects in neural cells, although the mechanism by which it does this is still unclear. To examine the involvement of the apoptotic cascade in A beta-induced cell death, we used mice deficient in caspase-3 (CPP 32), a key protease in this cascade. We microinjected A beta(1-40) into hippocampal regions of the brains of adult mice because AD is an adult-onset disease. We found significant cellular loss in the hippocampal regions of wild-type mice and dramatic rescue of neuronal cell death in caspase-3-deficient mice, with a gene dosage effect. In addition to adult mice, we observed little A beta-induced death of cultured neurons prepared from fetal brains of caspase-3-deficient mice but did observe death of such neurons from wild-type mice. The difference in A beta-induced neuronal death between wild-type and caspase-3-deficient mice was highly significant, indicating that A beta-induced neuronal death is mediated in vivo as well as in vitro by the caspase-3 apoptotic cascade.
To assess the information encoded in retinal spike trains and how it might be decoded by recipient neurons in the brain, we recorded from individual cat X and Y ganglion cells and visually stimulated them with randomly modulated patterns of various contrast and spatial configuration. For each pattern, we estimated the information rate of the cells using linear or nonlinear algorithms and for some patterns by directly measuring response probability distributions. We show that ganglion cell spike trains contain information from the receptive field center and surround, that the center and surround have similar signaling capacity, that antagonism between the mechanisms reduces information transmission, and that the total information rate is limited. We also show that a linear decoding algorithm can capture all of the information available in retinal spike trains about weak inputs, but it misses a substantial amount about strong inputs. For the strongest stimulus we used, the information rate of the best linear decoder averaged 40-70 bits/s across ganglion cell types, while the directly measured rate was around 20-40 bits/s greater. This implies that under certain stimulus conditions, visual information is encoded in the temporal structure of retinal spike trains and that a nonlinear decoding algorithm is needed to extract the temporally coded information. Using simulated spike trains, we demonstrate that much of the temporal structure may be explained by the threshold for spike generation and is not necessarily indicative of a complex coding scheme.
Determining the principles used to plan and execute movements is a fundamental question in neuroscience research. When humans reach to a target with their hand, they exhibit stereotypical movements that closely follow an optimally smooth trajectory. Even when faced with various perceptual or mechanical perturbations, subjects readily adapt their motor output to preserve this stereotypical trajectory. When humans manipulate non-rigid objects, however, they must control the movements of the object as well as the hand. Such tasks impose a fundamentally different control problem than that of moving one's arm alone. Here, we developed a mathematical model for transporting a mass-on-a-spring to a target in an optimally smooth way. We demonstrate that the well-known &quot;minimum-jerk&quot; model for smooth reaching movements cannot accomplish this task. Our model extends the concept of smoothness to allow for the control of non-rigid objects. Although our model makes some predictions that are similar to minimum jerk, it predicts distinctly different optimal trajectories in several specific cases. In particular, when the relative speed of the movement becomes fast enough or when the object stiffness becomes small enough, the model predicts that subjects will transition from a uni-phasic hand motion to a bi-phasic hand motion. We directly tested these predictions in human subjects. Our subjects adopted trajectories that were well-predicted by our model, including all of the predicted transitions between uni- and bi-phasic hand motions. These findings suggest that smoothness of motion is a general principle of movement planning that extends beyond the control of hand trajectories.
The medial superior temporal area of extrastriate cortex (MST) contains signals selective for nonuniform patterns of motion often termed &quot;optic flow.&quot; The presence of such tuning, however, does not necessarily imply involvement in perception. To quantify the relationship between these selective neuronal signals and the perception of optic flow, we designed a discrimination task that allowed us to simultaneously record neuronal and behavioral sensitivities to near-threshold optic flow stimuli tailored to MST cells' preferences. In this two-alternative forced-choice task, we controlled the salience of globally opposite patterns (e.g., expansion and contraction) by varying the coherence of the motion. Using these stimuli, we could both relate the sensitivity of neuronal signals in MST to the animal's behavioral sensitivity and also measure trial-by-trial correlation between neuronal signals and behavioral choices. Neurons in MST showed a wide range of sensitivities to these complex motion stimuli. Many neurons had sensitivities equal or superior to the monkey's threshold. On the other hand, trial-by-trial correlation between neuronal discharge and choice (&quot;choice probability&quot;) was weak or nonexistent in our data. Together, these results lead us to conclude that MST contains sufficient information for threshold judgments of optic flow; however, the role of MST activity in optic flow discriminations may be less direct than in other visual motion tasks previously described by other laboratories.
A slowly inactivating, low-threshold K(+) current has been implicated in the regulation of state transitions and repetitive activity in striatal medium spiny neurons. However, the molecular identity of the channels underlying this current and their biophysical properties remain to be clearly determined. Because previous work had suggested this current arose from Kv1 family channels, high-affinity toxins for this family were tested for their ability to block whole cell K(+) currents activated by depolarization of acutely isolated neurons. alpha-Dendrotoxin, which blocks channels containing Kv1.1, Kv1.2, or Kv1.6 subunits, decreased currents evoked by depolarization. Three other Kv1 family toxins that lack a high affinity for Kv1.2 subunits, r-agitoxin-2, dendrotoxin-K, and r-margatoxin, failed to significantly reduce currents, implicating channels with Kv1.2 subunits. RT-PCR results confirmed the expression of Kv1.2 mRNA in identified medium spiny neurons. Currents attributable to Kv1.2 channels activated rapidly, inactivated slowly, and recovered from inactivation slowly. In the subthreshold range (ca. -60 mV), these currents accounted for as much as 50% of the depolarization-activated K(+) current. Moreover, their rapid activation and relatively slow deactivation suggested that they contribute to spike afterpotentials regulating repetitive discharge. This inference was confirmed in current-clamp recordings from medium spiny neurons in the slice preparation where Kv1.2 blockade reduced first-spike latency and increased discharge frequency evoked from hyperpolarized membrane potentials resembling the &quot;down-state&quot; found in vivo. These studies establish a clear functional role for somato-dendritic Kv1.2 channels in the regulation of state transitions and repetitive discharge in striatal medium spiny neurons.
A growing body of evidence obtained using in vitro model systems indicates that the deposition of fibrillar beta-amyloid (Abeta) results in neurite degeneration and cell death in central neurons. Little is known, however, about the molecular mechanisms underlying these neurotoxic effects. We have shown previously that fibrillar Abeta induced sustained activation of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) followed by hyperphosphorylation of tau proteins in aging hippocampal neurons. Furthermore, the blockage of MAPK activation using specific inhibitors prevented neurite degeneration in these cells. These results suggested that the MAPK signal transduction pathway could play a key role in Abeta-induced neurite degeneration. We sought to identify upstream elements of the MAPK signaling cascade activated by Abeta deposition. We evaluated the participation of the integrins in this pathway by monitoring the activation of MAPK in the presence of specific integrin inhibitors. Our results indicate that pretreatment of mature hippocampal neurons with either echistatin or alpha(1) integrin-blocking antibodies prevented Abeta-induced MAPK activation. In addition, the blockage of alpha(1) activation prevented cell death induced by Abeta. Similar results were obtained when alpha(1) and beta(1) integrin blocking antibodies were used combined. Taken collectively, these results identify alpha(1) integrin and the alpha(1) plus beta(1) integrin complexes as potential targets for therapeutic intervention in the Abeta signaling pathway in aging neurons.
Distinctive expression of midkine (MK) was observed during the repair period of fetal brain neuroepithelium. MK is a heparin-binding growth factor that occurs as a product of a retinoic acid-inducible gene, and has a molecular mass of 13 kDa. MK expression was examined immunohistochemically and by immunoelectron microscopy during a period of repair in developing rat brain at the neurogenesis stage. Injury was induced in rat fetuses by transplacental administration of ethylnitrosourea (ENU) on embryonic Day (E) 16, and histological changes were examined up to 48 hr thereafter (i.e., up to E 18). In normal rat fetuses, MK immunostaining was observed in the cytoplasm and radial and horizontal processes of all cells in the neuroepithelium (NE), subventricular zone (SV), and intermediate zone (IMZ). In ENU-administered brains, cells in the NE, SV, and IMZ were damaged severely, especially 16-24 hr after ENU administration. The remaining neuroepithelial cells, with the exception of those in M-phase and the tips of processes at the ventricular surface, were negative for MK immunohistochemistry 16-24 hr after the administration of ENU. Forty-eight hours after the administration, the cytoplasm and processes of cells in the NE, SV, and IMZ were MK immunopositive. Our previous data reported that the cell cycle of most NE cells is synchronized to the S-phase 16 hr after ENU administration and to the M-phase at 24 hr, and many NE cells were recovered 48 hr after ENU administration. The previous results taken together with the present results indicate that: (1) MK expression does not increase during the repair period of the NE, being different from adults; (2) MK expression is likely to be suppressed at S-phase according to the condition of the NE; and (3) MK expression is not essential for every cell cycle phase of NE cells; but (4) is necessary to maintain the M-phase of NE cells.
To establish if the cell adhesion molecule L1 could promote neurite outgrowth of septal neurons, L1-positive substrates were prepared by genetically modifying 3T3 fibroblasts with a retroviral vector encoding human L1 under the control of a negative tetracycline-regulatory system. In several clones of L1-transfected fibroblasts, L1 expression at the cell surface was prominent and efficiently regulated by doxycycline, a tetracycline analogue. In co-culture of septal neurons and fibroblasts, a two-dimensional fractionator probe provided systematic random sampling of the neurites to be measured. Septal neurons, isolated at embryonic Day 17, were found to express L1 in vitro and to extend significantly longer neurites when plated on L1-expressing fibroblasts compared to control fibroblasts. The neurite outgrowth-promoting effect of L1 was inhibited after a doxycycline treatment, which specifically suppressed L1 expression from the modified fibroblasts. The findings that septal neurons at embryonic Day 17 in vitro express L1 and respond to L1-modulation suggest that this molecule is involved in development of the septohippocampal pathway.
We compared the neurological and electrophysiological outcome, glial reactivity, and spared spinal cord connectivity promoted by acute transplantation of olfactory ensheathing cells (group OEC) or Schwann cells (group SC) after a mild injury to the rat spinal cord. Animals were subjected to a photochemical injury of 2.5 min irradiation at the T8 spinal cord segment. After lesion, a suspension containing 180,000 OECs or SCs was injected. A control group (group DM) received the vehicle alone. During 3 months postsurgery, behavioral skills were assessed with open field-BBB scale, inclined plane, and thermal algesimetry tests. Motor (MEPs) and somatosensory evoked potentials (SSEPs) were performed to evaluate the integrity of spinal cord pathways, whereas lumbar spinal reflexes were evaluated by the H reflex responses. Glial fibrillary acidic protein and proteoglycan expressions were quantified immunohistochemically at the injured spinal segments, and the preservation of corticospinal and raphespinal tracts caudal to the lesion was evaluated. Both OEC- and SC-transplanted groups showed significantly better results in all the behavioral tests than the DM group. Furthermore, the OEC group had higher MEP amplitudes and lower H responses than the other two groups. At the injury site, the area of spared parenchyma was greater in transplanted than in control injured rats. OEC-transplanted animals had reduced astrocytic reactivity and proteoglycan expression in comparison with SC-transplanted and DM rats. Taken together, these results indicate that transplantation of both OEC and SC has potential for restoration of injured spinal cords. OEC grafts showed superior ability to reduce glial reactivity and to improve functional recovery.
Heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein (hnRNP) A2, a trans-acting factor that mediates intracellular trafficking of myelin basic protein (MBP) mRNA to the myelin compartment in oligodendrocytes, is most abundant in the nucleus, but shuttles between the nucleus and cytoplasm. In the cytoplasm, it is associated with granules that transport mRNA from the cell body to the processes of oligodendrocytes. We found that the overall level of hnRNP A2 increased in oligodendrocytes as they differentiated into MBP-positive cells, and that this augmentation was reflected primarily in the cytoplasmic pool of hnRNP A2 present in the form of granules. The extranuclear distribution of hnRNP A2 was also observed in brain during the period of myelination in vivo. Methylation and phosphorylation have been implicated previously in the nuclear to cytoplasmic distribution of hnRNPs, so we used drugs that block methylation and phosphorylation of hnRNPs to assess their effect on hnRNP A2 distribution and mRNA trafficking. Cultures treated with adenosine dialdehyde (AdOx), an inhibitor of S-adenosyl-L-homocysteine hydrolase, or with 5,6-dichloro-1-beta-D-ribofuranosylbenzimidazole (DRB), a drug that inhibits casein kinase 2 (CK2), maintained the preferential nuclear distribution of hnRNP A2. Treatment with either drug affected the transport of RNA trafficking granules that remained confined to the cell body.
Ivan Petrovich Pavlov and Harvey William Cushing were two of the most prominent neuroscientists of the early 20th century. Their contributions helped advance the understanding of the brain and its disorders, and propelled neuroscience into a new era of research and treatment. Although separated geographically and culturally, Pavlov and Cushing exchanged letters and followed one another's careers from afar. They met only a few times, during international scientific gatherings in the US and abroad. These encounters were captured in journal entries, letters, and photographs, and provide a glimpse into the lives of these two great men and the history of neuroscience at the turn of the last century.

Carotid stenosis is an important cause of transient ischemic attacks and stroke. The cause of carotid stenosis is most often atherosclerosis, which accounts for 10% to 20% of brain infarction cases. Despite the introduction of tissue-plasminogen activator and other promising experimental therapies for select patients with acute ischemic stroke prevention remains the best approach to reduce its impact. Stroke-prone patients can be identified and targeted for specific interventions. At this juncture, treatment of carotid stenosis is a well-established therapeutic target and a pillar of stroke prevention. Two main strategies exist for the treatment of carotid stenosis. The 1st is stabilization or halting the progression of the carotid plaque formation with medications and modifications of risk factors (e.g., hypertension, diabetes, smoking, obesity, high cholesterol). The 2nd approach is the elimination or reduction of carotid stenosis by carotid endarterectomy or angioplasty and stenting. Carotid endarterectomy is the mainstay of therapy for symptomatic, severe carotid stenosis. Although its role for asymptomatic patients appears more limited, it is distinct for severe stenosis. Carotid angioplasty and stenting are techniques in maturation with the attractiveness of being less invasive that face the challenge of at least replicating the results of surgery. In this article, we will discuss the surgical management of symptomatic and asymptomatic carotid stenosis based on the evidence provided by the literature.
Axon growth failure in the central nervous system (CNS) of adult animals is thought to be attributable to several factors, including an inadequate intrinsic growth response, the presence of inhibitory molecules, and a lack of adequate neurotrophic support. Here we use a new in vitro assay system to quantitatively assess growth of axons in cortex/spinal cord organotypic co-cultures from neonatal rats. Co-cultures of cortex and spinal cord were prepared from neonatal rats at P3 or P7, and by pairing cortex and spinal cords from different ages. Axon growth from the cortex to the spinal cord was assessed using DiI tract tracing techniques. Axons could be traced from the cortex to the spinal cord in co-cultures in which both tissues were obtained from P3 animals, whereas few axons crossed the cortex/spinal cord boundary in co-cultures from P7 animals. A larger number of axons could be traced across the boundary in co-cultures from P3 animals that were treated with neurotrophins (NGF, BDNF, or NT3), whereas neurotrophins produced minimal growth enhancement in P7 co-cultures. In mixed age co-cultures of P7 cortex with P3 spinal cord, moderate numbers of axons extended between the cortex and spinal cord when cultures were treated with neurotrophins, but few if any crossing axons were detected in co-cultures of P3 cortex with P7 spinal cords. These results indicate that successful growth of axons from the cortex to the spinal cord depends on the developmental age of the tissue terrain (the spinal cord and/or the interface between cortex and spinal cord explants), and to a lesser extent on the developmental state of the cortical neurons, and that axon growth between cortex and spinal cord can be enhanced by exogenous neurotrophins. These co-cultures provide a potentially useful assay for factors that affect axon growth that is intermediate between assays based on dissociated neurons and the intact tissue terrain.
Peripheral neuropathy afflicts 60% of all diabetic patients. Underlying the clinical disorder is the loss or degeneration of neurons, Schwann cells, and neuronal fibers. This degenerative pathology has prompted interest in the potential of growth factors as a therapy in diabetic neuropathy. Three lines of evidence support the theory that growth factors may be important in this disorder: (1) endogenous growth factors promote survival and health of neurons, (2) expression levels of growth factors are altered in diabetic neuropathy and peripheral neuron injury, and (3) growth factors induce neuronal regeneration in in vitro and in vivo models of diabetic injury. This review surveys the roles of several growth factors in diabetic neuropathy, including the neurotrophins, insulin-like growth factors, cytokine-like growth factors, and vascular endothelial growth factor. These growth factors are examined in terms of their expression during peripheral nerve injury and their protective and regenerative effects on peripheral neurons. Growth factor-mediated neuroprotective signaling is discussed, particularly in relation to the recent research, suggesting that diabetic neuropathy-induced degeneration stems from oxidative stress. Finally, the potential of growth factors as therapeutic agents is addressed, including an assessment of past growth factor clinical trials and other potential avenues of growth factor therapy.
Involvement of sensory nerves in Charcot-Marie-Tooth (CMT) disease is well known, however, sensory symptoms are usually overlooked. To assess the frequency and features of sensory symptoms in a cohort of patients with CMT, we investigated in a prospective study 52 consecutive CMT patients, diagnosed on the basis of clinical, neurophysiological, and genetic features and classified in CMT type 1 (CMT1) (20 patients, including 14 with CMT1A) and CMT type 2 (CMT2) (32 patients). Positive sensory symptoms were reported by 28 patients (54%), including neuropathic pain in 6 patients. Pain, either neuropathic or nociceptive, was present in 29 patients (56%) and in 15 patients as a main symptom. Positive sensory symptoms were present in 24 of 32 CMT2 patients (75%) and in 4 of 20 CMT1 patients (20%) (p &lt; 0.001); there was a presenting manifestation in 11/32 CMT2 patients vs. 1/20 in CMT1 patients (p = 0.018), and one of the main features in 6/32 CMT2 patients vs. 1/20 CMT1 patients. Frequency of positive sensory symptoms in CMT1A patients was similar to that of the entire CMT1 group. Within the CMT2 group, patients with positive sensory symptoms as a main or onset feature (11 patients) had significantly later onset (median 57 vs. 25 years; p = 0.042) and less severely impaired motor action potentials than CMT2 patients without positive sensory symptoms (8 patients). Nociceptive pain was especially frequent in CMT1A patients (10/14, 71%). Sensory manifestations in CMT seem more frequent than previously thought, especially in CMT2; however, their frequency may be different in the genetic subtypes of the disease and/or an expression of phenotypic variability. Sensory symptoms, and in particular pain, may represent an important issue in the management of CMT patients, especially in a physical medicine approach.
Lower urinary tract disorders include disorders affecting continence (stress urinary incontinence, urge urinary incontinence, and benign prostatic hyperplasia) and male erectile dysfunction. Although none of these conditions are fatal, they affect overall quality of life. Throughout modern medicine the treatment of these conditions was limited to psychological counseling or surgical intervention. In recent years, research defining the physiological mechanisms of continence and male sexual function has aided in the pharmacologic design of approaches to these conditions. These agents can act both centrally or on the peripheral genitourinary smooth muscle to alleviate disease symptoms. Incontinence is primarily treated with agents that act directly on the bladder smooth muscle such as muscarinic antagonists. However, afferent blockade to attenuate the spinalbulbospinal reflex pathway including mixed norepinephrine/serotonin reuptake inhibitors may provide a key breakthrough. Erectile dysfunction treatment has been revolutionized via the discovery of the nitric oxide pathway and phosphodiesterase 5 inhibitors. New peripheral targets as well as centrally acting agents represent potential emerging therapies. In this review, the pharmacologic basis of treatment of these disorders is discussed with special emphasis on emerging new therapeutics.
Cocaine abuse is a public health concern with seizures and death being one consequence of overdose. In the present study, dopamine D(3/)D(2) receptor agonists dose dependently and completely prevented the convulsant and lethal effects of cocaine. The D(3)-preferring agonists R-(+)-trans-3,4a,10b-tetrahydro-4-propyl-2H,5H-[1]benzopyrano[4,3-b]-1,4-oxazin-9-ol) [(+)-PD 128,907], (+)-7-hydroxy-dipropylaminotetralin, and the mixed D(3/)D(2) agonists quinpirole and quinelorane were all effective against cocaine toxicity in mice. The anticonvulsant effects of these compounds occurred at doses below those that produced motor impairment as assessed in the inverted screen test. Protection against the convulsant effects of the selective dopamine uptake inhibitor 1-[2-[bis(4-fluorophenyl)methoxy] ethyl]-4-[3-phenyl-propyl]piperazine (GBR 12909) was also conferred by (+)-PD 128,907. The possible selectivity of the effects of (+)-PD 128,907 (3 mg/kg) for these dopaminergic compounds was demonstrated by its general lack of protective efficacy against a host of convulsants acting through other neural mechanisms [pentylenetetrazol, (+)-bicuculline, and picrotoxin, 4-aminopyridine, and t-butylbiclyclophosphoorothionate, N-methyl-d-aspartate, kainate, pilocarpine, nicotine, strychnine, aminophylline, threshold electric shock, and 6-Hz electrical stimulation]. Direct and correlational evidence suggests that these effects were mediated by D(3) receptors. Protection was stereospecific and reversible by an antagonist of D(3) receptors [3-[4[1-(4-[2[4-(3-diethyamino-propoxy)-phenyl]-benzoimidazol-l-yl]-butyl)-1H-benzoimidazol-2-yl]-phenoxy]-propyl)-diethyl-amine; PD 58491] but not D(2) receptors [3[[4-(4-chlorophenyl)-4 hydroxypipeidin-1-yl]methyl-1H-indole; L-741,626]. Anticonvulsant potencies were positively associated with potencies in a functional assay of D(3) but not D(2) receptor function. Together, these findings suggest that the prevention of cocaine convulsions and lethality by (+)-PD 128,907 may be due to D(3) receptor-mediated events.
Brief activation of the ATP-sensitive P2X(7) receptor (P2X(7)R) stimulates the maturation and release of interleukin 1beta (IL-1beta)in macrophages, whereas prolonged agonist activation induces the formation of cytolytic pores in cell membranes. The present study investigated potential downstream mechanisms associated with native human P2X(7)R activation in lipopolysaccharide and interferon-gamma differentiated THP-1 cells. 2,3-O-(4-Benzoylbenzoyl)-ATP (BzATP)-induced pore formation (EC(50) = 35 microM) was blocked by a selective P2X(7)R antagonist, 1[N,O-bis(5-isoquinolinesulfonyl)-N-methyl-l-tyrosyl]-4-phenylpiperazine (KN-62) (IC(50) = 44 nM) and by pyridoxal phosphate-6-azophenyl-2-4-disulfonic acid (PPADS) (IC(50) = 344 nM). KN-62 and PPADS also blocked BzATP-induced IL-1beta release (EC(50) = 617 microM) with IC(50) values of 75 and 3500 nM, respectively. The selective p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) inhibitor, 4-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-(4-hydroxyphenyl)-5-(4-pyridyl)-1H-imidazole (SB 202190), potently inhibited BzATP-induced pore formation (IC(50) = 75 nM) but did not alter P2X(7)-mediated calcium influx or IL-1beta release. SB 202190 and KN-62 also attenuated BzATP-mediated activation of phosphorylated p38 MAPK (pp38 MAPK). Two caspase inhibitors, YVAD (caspase 1) and DEVD (caspase 3), attenuated both BzATP-induced pore formation and IL-1beta release in a concentration-dependent fashion. Neither DEVD nor p38-MAPK inhibitors blocked cell membrane pore formation evoked by maitotoxin or by activation of human P2X(2a) receptors. These results indicate that P2X(7)R-mediated pore formation results from a coordinated cascade involving both the p38 MAPK and caspase pathways that is distinct from other cytolytic pore-forming mechanisms. In contrast, P2X(7)R-mediated IL-1beta release is dependent on caspase activity but not p38 MAPK. Taken together, these results support the hypothesis that downstream cellular signaling mechanisms, rather than channel dilation, mediate cytolytic pore formation after prolonged agonist activation, which underlies P2X(7) receptors.
Anti-human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) drug penetration into the brain and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) is necessary to tackle HIV within the CNS. This study examines movement of [(3)H]ritonavir across the guinea pig blood-brain and blood-CSF barriers and accumulation within the brain, CSF, and choroid plexus. Ritonavir is a protease inhibitor, used in combination therapy (often as a pharmacoenhancer) to treat HIV. Drug interactions at brain barrier efflux systems may influence the CNS penetration of anti-viral drugs, thus the influence of additional protease inhibitors, nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors, and non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors on [(3)H]ritonavir CNS distribution was explored. Additionally, the involvement of transporters on [(3)H]ritonavir passage across the brain barriers was assessed. Results from in situ brain perfusions and capillary depletion analysis demonstrated that [(3)H]ritonavir uptake into the guinea pig brain was considerable (6.6 +/- 0.7 ml/100 g at 30 min, vascular space corrected), although a proportion of drug remained trapped in the cerebral capillaries and did not reach the brain parenchyma. CSF uptake was more limited (2.2 +/- 0.4 ml/100 g at 30 min), but choroid plexus uptake was abundant (176.7 +/- 46.3 ml/100 g at 30 min). [(3)H]Ritonavir brain and CSF uptake was unaffected by neither inhibitors of organic anion transport (probenecid and digoxin) or P-glycoprotein (progesterone), nor by any additional anti-HIV drugs, indicating that brain barrier efflux systems do not significantly limit brain or CSF [(3)H]ritonavir accumulation in this model. [(3)H]Ritonavir uptake into the perfused choroid plexus was significantly reduced by nevirapine and abacavir, additional perfusion studies, and isolated incubated choroid plexus experiments were carried out in an attempt to further characterize the transporter involved.
Bradykinin (BK) is well known as a potent mediator of pain and hyperalgesia. Using a highly sensitive nociception test, we found that intraplantar (i.pl.) injection of BK produced nociceptive hyper-responses in partial sciatic nerve-injured mice, compared with the control sham-operated animals. By use of selective agonists and antagonists, we revealed that BK nociception in sham-operated mice was mediated through B2 receptor, whereas that in injured mice was mediated through B1 receptor. When we examined the activation of extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase (ERK) in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons upon i.pl. injection of BK, phosphorylated ERK was mainly observed in unmyelinated neurons in sham-operated mice, and in case of nerve-injured mice, ERK was mainly activated in myelinated neurons and satellite cells. The B1 receptor agonist, [Lys-des-Arg(9)]-BK also produced nociceptive response and activated ERK only in nerve-injured mice. BK or B1 agonist-induced activation of ERK in DRG neurons of nerve-injured mice was completely blocked by pretreatment with antisense oligodeoxynucleotide (AS-ODN) for B1 receptor. We found that in sham-operated mice mainly B2 receptors were expressed in unmyelinated DRG neurons with a very little presence of B1 receptor. After nerve injury, B2 receptor expression drastically decreased, whereas B1 receptors were newly expressed mainly in myelinated DRG neurons and satellite cells. Finally, BK nociception in sham-operated mice was blocked by AS-ODN for B2 receptors and that in injured mice by AS-ODN for B1 receptors. Altogether, these findings confirm a switching of receptor and fiber subtype for BK nociception after peripheral nerve injury, which might contribute to the pathobiology of neuropathic pain.
Stretching the stomach wall in young healthy subjects causes an increase in muscle sympathetic nerve activity and in blood pressure, the gastrovascular reflex. We compared healthy elderly subjects with healthy young subjects to find out whether the gastrovascular reflex attenuates in normal ageing and we studied whether there was a difference in autonomic function or gastric compliance that could explain this possible attenuation. Muscle sympathetic nerve activity, finger blood pressure and heart rate were continuously recorded during stepwise isobaric gastric distension using a barostat in eight healthy young (6 men and 2 women, 27 +/- 3.2 years, mean +/-s.e.m.) and eight healthy elderly subjects (7 men and 1 woman, 76 +/- 1.5 years). Changes in cardiac output and total peripheral arterial resistance were calculated from the blood pressure signal. The baseline mean arterial pressure and muscle sympathetic nerve activity were higher in the elderly group (both P &lt; 0.05) and muscle sympathetic nerve activity increase during the cold pressor test was lower in the elderly group (P = 0.005). During stepwise gastric distension, the elderly subjects showed an attenuated increase in muscle sympathetic nerve activity compared to the young subjects (P &lt; 0.01). The older group tended to show a higher increase in mean arterial pressure (P = 0.08), heart rate (P = 0.06) and total peripheral arterial resistance (P = 0.09) The cardiac output rose slightly in both groups without significant difference between groups. The fundic compliance did not differ between groups. We conclude that stepwise gastric distension caused an increase in muscle sympathetic nerve activity in both groups, but the increase in the elderly was attenuated.
Studies from our laboratory have revealed a novel micro opiate receptor, micro(3), which is expressed in both human vascular tissues and leukocytes. The micro(3) receptor is selective for opiate alkaloids, insensitive to opioid peptides and is coupled to constitutive nitric oxide (cNO) release. We now identify the micro(3) receptor characteristics in mammalian gut tissues. It appears that the various regions of the mouse gut release low levels of NO (0.02 to 4.6 nM ) in a pulsatile manner. We demonstrate that morphine stimulates cNO release (peak level 17 nM) in the mouse stomach, small intestine and large intestine in a naloxone and L-NAME antagonizable manner. Opioid peptides do not exhibit cNO-stimulating capabilities in these tissues. Taken together, we surmise morphine acts as a hormone to limit gut activity via micro(3) coupled to NO release since micro opiate receptors are found in the gut and endogenous morphine is not but is found in blood.
The current studies were initiated to investigate the role of brain-gut peptide, gastrin, on locomotor activity and anxiety-like behavior. Young, male mutant mice, lacking gastrin gene expression (GAS-KO mice), were used in the experiments. The locomotor activity of GAS-KO vs wild type (WT) mice was compared by open field test. The anxiety-like behavior was examined using elevated plus maze. The time and entries to the open arms of the elevated plus maze were used as an indicator for the anxiety-like behavior and the data were analyzed using Hindsight program. On the open field test, locomotor activity of GAS-KO mice was similar to that of the WT mice for the first 10 min of the test, but decreased significantly after that. Anxiety-like behavior was more evident in the GAS-KO vs WT mice in the elevated plus maze experiments. The number of entries to and time spent on the open arms of plus-maze were significantly reduced for the GAS-KO vs WT mice suggesting an increased anxiety-like behavior of GAS-KO mice. Our studies suggest that normal circulating levels of gastrins may play a direct or indirect role in the regulation of locomotor activity and anxiety-like behavior.
Intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) infusion of the alpha1-adrenoceptor agonist phenylephrine elicits vagal and sympathetic neural stimulation of the bicarbonate secretion by the duodenal mucosa. Melatonin originating from mucosal enterochromaffin cells (EC cells) has been proposed to mediate this centrally elicited stimulation. However, the release of intestinal melatonin has not been studied. Rats were anesthetized with thiobarbiturate, a 12-mm segment of duodenum with intact blood supply was cannulated in situ and bicarbonate secretion titrated by pH-stat. The mean arterial blood pressure was continuously recorded. Melatonin in the duodenal luminal perfusate was determined by high-performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection. Intracerebroventricular infusion of phenylephrine (12.2 microM/kg/hr) induced more than 10-fold increase in release of melatonin into the duodenal lumen and an increase in HCO secretion from 7.6 +/- 0.5 to 18.6 +/- 2.1 microEq/cm/hr. The melatonin receptor (MT2 &gt; MT1) antagonist luzindole (600 nM/kg, i.v.) almost abolished the marked rise in bicarbonate secretion induced by i.c.v. phenylephrine but, in contrast, did not affect the release of melatonin. These results strongly suggest that release of melatonin from the mucosa mediates the duodenal secretory response to centrally elicited neural stimulation.
There is compelling evidence for an important role of the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis abnormalities in the pathophysiology of major depressive disorder. Growing evidence has suggested that the combined dexamethasone (DEX)/CRH test is much more sensitive than the conventional DEX suppression test in order to detect HPA axis abnormalities. However, little data is currently available on DEX/CRH results for Asian populations, which prompted us to examine the sensitivity of the DEX/CRH test among Japanese subjects with major depression. The DEX/CRH test was administered in 20 inpatients with major depressive episode and 30 healthy controls. Significantly increased cortisol responses were observed for the patients, compared to the controls. There was a substantial difference in the distribution of non-suppressor, intermediate suppressor, and suppressor, which were defined in terms of cortisol response, was observed between the patients and controls (10, 60, and 30% in the patients vs. 0, 27, and 73% in the controls, P&lt;0.01). Responses of ACTH showed a trend in the same direction. Within the depressed patients, individuals with a history of attempted suicide, in particular, tended to have enhanced responses to the DEX/CRH test, compared to those without such a history. Our results confirmed that the DEX/CRH test is a sensitive test to detect HPA axis abnormalities among Japanese patients with major depression. In addition, a possible relationship between suicidal acts and enhanced HPA axis abnormalities was suggested.
Thought disorder is a hallmark symptom of schizophrenia, which often leads to deficits in social functioning. Some aspects of this cognitive dysfunction are the result of abnormal characteristics in the semantic processes of patients. These abnormalities exist not only at the discourse production level, but at the discourse comprehension level as well. The recording and analysis of event-related potentials has greatly advanced the investigation of the processing of linguistic information. One particular component of event-related potentials, N400, indexes semantic processing. Whereas all meaningful words elicit an N400, the amplitude of this component is much greater in response to words that are unexpected in a given context. As such, it is thought to reflect processes involved in contextual integration, which is the key to correct comprehension. N400 has been found to be abnormal in patients with schizophrenia when compared with healthy controls and, thus, may point toward the underlying cause of semantic deficits of patients with thought disorder.


Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is a recently established technique in the neurosciences that allows the non-invasive assessment, among other parameters, of the excitability of motor cortex. Up to now, its application to sleep research has been very scarce and because of technical problems it provided contrasting results. In fact delivering one single suprathreshold magnetic stimulus easily awakes subjects, or lightens their sleep. For this reason, in the present study we assessed motor thresholds (MTs) upon rapid eye movement (REM) and non-rapid eye movement (NREM) sleep awakenings, both in the first and in the last part of the night. Taking into account that a full re-establishment of wake regional brain activity patterns upon awakening from sleep needs up to 20-30 min, it is possible to make inferences about the neurophysiological characteristics of the different sleep stages by analyzing the variables of interest immediately after provoked awakenings. Ten female volunteers slept in the lab for four consecutive nights. During the first night the MTs were collected, following a standardized procedure: 5 min before lights off, upon stage 2 awakening (second NREM period), upon REM sleep awakening (second REM period), upon the final morning awakening (always from stage 2). Results showed that MTs increased linearly from presleep wakefulness to REM sleep awakenings, and from the latter to stage 2 awakenings. There was also a time-of-night effect on MTs upon awakening from stage 2, indicating that MTs decreased from the first to the second part of the night. The increase in corticospinal excitability across the night, which parallels the fulfillment of sleep need, is consistent with the linear decrease of auditory arousal thresholds during the night. The maximal reduction of corticospinal excitability during early NREM sleep can be related to the hyperpolarization of thalamocortical neurons, and is in line with the decreased metabolic activity of motor cortices during this sleep stage. On the contrary, the increase of MTs upon REM sleep awakenings should reflect peripheral factors. We conclude that our findings legitimate the introduction of the TMS technique as a new proper tool in sleep research.
Dissection of the brachial plexus is an important part in the anatomical course, but it is difficult for medical students to identify individual nerves of the brachial plexus due to its complexity and numerous variations. We have recently adopted the Grant method (1991) to guide students in the successful identification of this plexus. However, according to the Grant method the part of the upper limb including the brachial plexus is dissected before the neck part, which makes it impossible to identify the roots, trunks, and cords of the brachial plexus, and to identify the nerve branches extending from the brachial plexus. Here, we propose of anatomical dissection protocol of the brachial plexus a modified Grant method for medical students and instructors. The points of the modified protocols are: (1) to dissect the brachial plexus after the dissection of the neck part, (2) to identify the nerve trunks at the scalenus gap after dissecting the lateral, medial and posterior cords. The modified Grant method can be adapted to any other dissecting protocol of the brachial plexus, and will allow students to cope with many variations of the brachial plexus when they occur.
To capture all pertinent data during spinal cord injury animal experimentation, the authors have designed and implemented a database that is available for use under a public license. Their goals were to record all daily medical care of paraplegic animals, including unexpected complications; to store all injury parameters and/or therapeutic procedures; to track locomotor scores and other measures of functional recovery; to allow planning and management of experiments; and to serve as an externally linkable, SQL-queryable data mining source. Ultimately, the use of databases such as this will allow multiple neurotrauma laboratories to compare animal data through web meta-analysis.


We carried out the first neuropsychological study of a series of patients with functional amnesia. We evaluated 10 patients, first with a neurological examination and then with three tests of anterograde amnesia and four tests of retrograde amnesia. Excluding one patient who later admitted to malingering, all patients had a significant premorbid psychiatric history and one or more possible precipitating factors for their amnesia. Eight of the 10 patients still had persistent retrograde amnesia at our last contact with them (median = 14 mo after the onset of amnesia). On tests of anterograde amnesia, the patients performed normally as a group, though some patients scored poorly on tests of verbal memory. On tests of retrograde amnesia, all patients had difficulty re-collecting well-formed autobiographical memories of specific events from their past. In contrast, patients performed as well as controls at distinguishing the names of cities from fictitious city names. On remote memory tests for past public events and famous faces, different patients exhibited different but internally consistent patterns of impaired and spared performance. The variability in the clinical and neuropsychological findings among our patients may be understood by supposing that memory performance is poor in proportion to how directly a test appears to assess a patient's common sense concept of memory. The presentation of patients with functional amnesia is as variable as humankind's concept of what memory is and how it works.
The present study was aimed at simultaneously determining on the same subject, the effects of stress on retrieval of flexible (contextual or temporal) or stable (spatial) information. Three behavioral paradigms carried out in a four-hole board were designed as follows: (1) Simple Discrimination (SD), in which mice learned a single discrimination; (2) Contextual and Serial Discriminations (CSD), in which mice learned two successive discriminations on two different internal contexts; (3) Spatial Serial Discriminations (SSD), in which mice learned two successive discriminations on an identical internal context. The stressor (three inescapable electric footshocks) was delivered 5 min before retention, occurring 5 min or 24 h after acquisition. Results showed that this stressor increased plasmatic corticosterone levels and fear reactivity in an elevated-plus-maze, as compared with nonstressed mice. The stressor reversed the normal pattern of retrieval observed in nonstressed controls in the CSD task, this effect being context dependent, as it was not observed in the SSD task. Overall, our study shows that stress affected the retrieval of flexible and old information, but spared the retrieval of stable or recent ones. Therefore, these behavioral paradigms allow us to study simultaneously, on the same animal, the effects of stress on distinct forms of memory retrieval.
Extinction of classically conditioned fear, like its acquisition, is active learning, but little is known about its molecular mechanisms. We recently reported that temporal massing of conditional stimulus (CS) presentations improves extinction memory acquisition, and suggested that temporal spacing was less effective because individual CS exposures trigger two opposing processes: (1) fear extinction, which is favored by CS massing, and (2) fear incubation (increase), which is favored by spacing. We here report the effects of manipulating the adrenergic system during massed or spaced CS presentations in fear-conditioned mice. We administered yohimbine (5 mg/kg), an alpha(2)-receptor antagonist, or propranolol (10 mg/kg), a beta-receptor antagonist, systemically prior to CS presentation sessions and recorded both short- and long-term changes in conditional freezing. Yohimbine treatment facilitated extinction of both cue and context fear with massed protocols. When given before spaced CS presentations, propranolol led to a persistent incubation of cue fear, whereas yohimbine led to persistent extinction, compared with vehicle-treated animals, which showed no change in fear. These results suggest that norepinephrine positively modulates the formation of fear extinction memories in mice. They also provide clear evidence that spaced CS presentations trigger both fear-reducing (extinction) and fear-increasing (incubation) mechanisms.
Stressful life events can have profound effects on our cognitive and motor abilities, from those that could be construed as adaptive to those not so. In this review, I discuss the general notion that acute stressful experience necessarily impairs our abilities to learn and remember. The effects of stress on operant conditioning, that is, learned helplessness, as well as those on classical conditioning procedures are discussed in the context of performance and adaptation. Studies indicating sex differences in learning during stressful times are discussed, as are those attributing different responses to the existence of multiple memory systems and nonlinear relationships. The intent of this review is to highlight the apparent plasticity of the stress response, how it might have evolved to affect both performance and learning processes, and the potential problems with interpreting stress effects on learning as either good or bad. An appreciation for its plasticity may provide new avenues for investigating its underlying neuronal mechanisms.
The implant of a biocompatible device capable of guiding lymphatic vessel regeneration in patients who underwent removal of lymph nodes might contribute to restoring an efficient lymphatic drainage and help to prevent the occurrence of lymphedema. The aim of this study was to evaluate whether a microstructured surface could provide a guidance for the growth of cultured lymphatic endothelial cells. The presence of microstructures on a surface permits the control of cell adhesion, migration, proliferation, and differentiation. We report here that lymphatic endothelial cells align on microstructures of alternating hyaluronan and aminosylanized glass stripes obtained by photoimmobilization. Cells consistently spread and proliferate only on aminosylanized glass. They orient parallel to the longitudinal axis of the stripe. A pattern of alternating stripes of aminosylanized glass uniformly covered by elongated cells and of hyaluronan devoid of cells eventuallyforms. The presence of alpha(v)-integrins along cell borders of cells in search of contact with each other and at the leading edge of migrating cells, sites where new focal adhesions are presumably formed, indicates that integrin-mediated adhesion to the substrate guides cell migration along the microstructure. Micropatterned surfaces of hyaluronan thus proved to adequately orient the growth of cells allowing the regeneration of lymphatic endothelium in the desired direction.
The popular notion that human movements are smooth appears to be in contradiction to the fact that point-to-point movements must necessarily have discontinuities of some finite order at their onset and possibly offset. We explore discontinuities in the Fourier domain and show that the order and total strength of discontinuities in a trajectory can be measured from the slope and intercept of the envelope of the energy spectrum at high frequencies. In linear system models, the order of discontinuity is constrained by the motor command discontinuity and the order of the motor plant. We deduce that trajectories such as the minimum jerk are not smooth, and may even be the least smooth trajectories possible for biologically plausible motor plants. We further examine the role of discontinuities in optimal control and show that minimum square derivative profiles (such as minimum jerk) are time-optimal trajectories. This leads to the notion that point-to-point movements are a trade-off between duration and discontinuity strength, possibly reflecting neural command intensity or signal-dependent noise.
The G-protein-coupled melanocortin receptors (MCRs) play an important role in a variety of essential functions such as the regulation of pigmentation, energy homeostasis, and steroid production. We performed a comprehensive characterization of the MC system in Fugu (Takifugu rubripes). We show that Fugu has an AGRP gene with high degree of conservation in the C-terminal region in addition to a POMC gene lacking gamma-MSH. The Fugu genome contains single copies of four MCRs, whereas the MC3R is missing. The MC2R and MC5R are found in tandem and remarkably contain one and two introns, respectively. We suggest that these introns were inserted through a reverse splicing mechanism into the DRY motif that is widely conserved through GPCRs. We were able to assemble large blocks around the MCRs in Fugu, showing remarkable synteny with human chromosomes 16 and 18. Detailed pharmacological characterization showed that ACTH had surprisingly high affinity for the Fugu MC1R and MC4R, whereas alpha-MSH had lower affinity. We also showed that the MC2R gene in Fugu codes for an ACTH receptor, which did not respond to alpha-MSH. All the Fugu receptors were able to couple functionally to cAMP production in line with the mammalian orthologs. The anatomical characterization shows that the MC2R is expressed in the brain in addition to the head-kidney, whereas the MC4R and MC5R are found in both brain regions and peripheral tissues. This is the first comprehensive genomic and functional characterization of a GPCR family within the Fugu genome. The study shows that some parts of the MC system are highly conserved through vertebrate evolution, such as regions in POMC coding for ACTH, alpha-MSH, and beta-MSH, the C-terminal region of AGRP, key binding units within the MC1R, MC2R, MC4R, and MC5R, synteny blocks around the MCRs, pharmacological properties of the MC2R, whereas other parts in the system are either missing, such as the MC3R and gamma-MSH, or different as compared to mammals, such as the affinity of ACTH and MSH peptides to MC1R and MC4R and the anatomical expression pattern of the MCRs.
Mice deficient in the extracellular matrix protein tenascin-R (TN-R-/- mice) show several indices of impaired perisomatic inhibition in hippocampal slices. The present study examined electroencephalograms (EEGs) and auditory-evoked potentials (AEPs) in freely moving TN-R-/- and wild-type control mice, focusing on the hippocampal CA1 field and cerebral cortex. TN-R-/- mice expressed normal high-frequency oscillations (ripples) in CA1 and only a slight reduction of peak theta frequency. In contrast, their hippocampal gamma oscillations were significantly enhanced in amplitude. Also, the amplitude of the cortical EEG of TN-R-/- mice was increased over a wide frequency range. The amplitude of cortical and, to a lesser degree hippocampal, AEPs was clearly enhanced in TN-R-/- mice. In addition, response habituation to repeated sound stimuli was significantly attenuated in TN-R-/- mice. These findings indicate that tenascin-R is involved in the regulation of certain inhibitory mechanisms in the intact brain.
Acute Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) injection increased ERK pathway (ERK, pCREB, and c-fos) mostly in the caudate putamen and cerebellum. This effect underwent to homeostatic adaptation after chronic treatment. Moreover, chronic THC exposure induced increases in the ERK cascade (ERK, pCREB, and Fos B) in the prefrontal cortex and hippocampus, suggesting that different neuronal circuits seem to be involved in the early phase and late phase of exposure. The involvement of ERK pathway in cannabinoid chronic exposure was also confirmed in Ras-GRF1 knock out mice, a useful model where cannabinoid-induced ERK activation is lost. In fact, Ras-GRF1 ko mice did not develop tolerance to THC analgesic and hypolocomotor effect. Our data suggest that ERK cascade could play a pivotal role in the induction of synaptic plasticity due to cannabinoid chronic exposure.
In whole-cell and single-channel patch-clamp recordings from bovine adrenal fasciculata cells, it was discovered that selected caffeic acid derivatives dramatically enhanced the activity of background TREK-1 K+ channels. Cinnamyl 1-3,4-dihydroxy-alpha-cyanocinnamate (CDC), activated TREK-1 when this agent was applied externally to cells or outside-out patches at concentrations of 5 to 10 microM. Structure/activity studies showed that native bTREK-1 channels were also activated by other caffeic acid esters, including caffeic acid phenethyl ester (CAPE), which contain a benzene or furan ring in the ester side chain. The activation of bTREK-1 by caffeic acid derivatives did not occur through inhibition of lipoxygenases because other potent lipoxygenase inhibitors failed to activate bTREK-1. In bovine adrenal zona fasciculata (AZF) cells, bTREK-1 K+ channels set the resting membrane potential. Inhibition of these channels by corticotropin leads to depolarization-dependent Ca2+ entry and cortisol secretion. CDC, which activates up to thousands of dormant bTREK-1 channels in AZF cells, was found to overwhelm the inhibition of bTREK-1 by corticotropin, reverse the membrane depolarization, and inhibit corticotropin-stimulated cortisol secretion. These results identify selected caffeic acid derivatives as novel K+ channel openers that activate TREK-1 background K+ channels. Because of their ability to stabilize the resting membrane potential and oppose electrical activity and depolarization-dependent Ca2+ entry, these compounds may have therapeutic potential as neuroprotective or cardioprotective agents.
Expression of specific peptide epitopes on the surface of virions has significant potential for studying viral biology and designing vectors for targeted gene therapy. In this study, an HSV-1 amplicon plasmid expressing a modified glycoprotein C (gC), in which the heparan sulfate binding domain was replaced with a His-tag, was used in generating HSV-1 virions. Western blot analysis demonstrated the presence of modified gC in the purified virions. The amplicon vectors were packaged using a gC-, lacZ+ helper virus to generate a mixture of high-titer helper virus (lacZ+) and amplicon vectors (GFP+), which expressed modified gC in the virion envelope. His-tagged virions bound to 293 6H cells expressing a cell surface pseudo-His-tag receptor four-fold more efficiently than to parental 293 cells and also proved more effective than wild-type virus in binding to both cell types. Binding resulted in productive infection by the modified virions with expression of reporter genes and cytopathic effect comparable to those of wild-type virions. Thus, not only can HSV-1 tropism be manipulated to recognize a non-herpes simplex binding receptor, but it is also possible to increase the infective capacity of the vectors beyond that of the wild-type virus via specific ligand receptor combinations.
In humans, botulinum neurotoxin (BoNT) serotype A (BoNT/A) is a useful therapeutic tool, but different BoNT serotypes may be useful when a specific immune resistance related to BoNT/A is proved. BoNT serotype F (BoNT/F) was injected into human muscles but its effects are shorter compared to BoNT/A, whereas BoNT serotype B (BoNT/B) is effective in humans only if injected at very high doses. BoNT serotype C (BoNT/C) has a general profile of action similar to BoNT/A. Nevertheless, a comparison between these different BoNTs in human has not yet been reported. To establish the general profile of these different BoNTs in humans and the spread in near and untreated muscles we conducted an electrophysiological evaluation in 12 healthy volunteers by injecting BoNT/A (BOTOX 15MU), BoNT/B (NeuroBloc 1500MU), BoNT/F (15MU), BoNT/C (15MU) and a saline solution (placebo) in the abductor digiti minimi muscle (ADM) in a double-blind manner. The compound muscle action potential (CMAP) amplitude variation, before and at 2, 4, 6 and 8 weeks after the injections, was evaluated in the ADM, the fourth dorsal interosseus, the first dorsal interosseus and the abductor pollicis brevis APB. We detected an earlier recovery for BoNT/F when compared to the other BoNTs. No significant differences in the local or distant BoNT spread was observed among the different serotypes. We conclude that in humans, BoNT/B and BoNT/C have a general profile similar to BoNT/A and as such these serotypes could be alternative therapies to BoNT/A. BoNT/F might be useful when only a short duration of neuromuscular blockade is required.
Mutations in parkin are implicated in the pathogenesis of autosomal recessive juvenile parkinsonism (AR-JP) disease. We show that homozygote Cys212Tyr parkin mutation in AR-JP patients renders lymphocytes sensitive to dopamine, iron and hydrogen peroxide stimuli. Indeed, dopamine-induced apoptosis by four alternative mechanisms converging on caspase-3 activation and apoptotic morphology: (1) NF-kappaB-dependent pathway; mitochondrial dysfunction either by (2) H(2)O(2) or (3) hydroxyl exposure and (4) increase of unfolded-protein stress. We also demonstrate that 17beta-estradiol and testosterone prevent homozygote lymphocytes from oxidative stressors-evoked apoptosis. These results may contribute to understanding the relationship between genetic and environmental factors and iron in AR-JP.
Cardiovascular responses after intravenous methamphetamine were assessed in 11 Parkinson's disease (PD) patients. Systolic blood pressure (SBP), diastolic blood pressure (DBP), heart rate (HR), and electrocardiogram (ECG) were monitored for 103 minutes. After methamphetamine administration, SBP and DBP increased significantly in both PD and normal controls whereas placebo had no effect. In PD patients, however, the duration of SBP and DBP responses to methamphetamine and the maximum increase from baseline was attenuated compared with the controls. A significant correlation was found between individual BP responsiveness and the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) motor score. These findings suggest that in PD there is impairment of catecholamine release from peripheral sympathetic presynaptic terminals, which correlates with motor impairment.
A patient with mutations in the acetylcholine receptor (AChR) epsilon subunit, who subsequently developed autoimmune myasthenia gravis (MG), led us to search for epsilon AChR mutations and polymorphisms in 167 patients with early-onset MG. No epsilon-subunit mutations or increased incidence of exonic epsilon-subunit polymorphisms were found. The allelic frequency of the intron polymorphism IVS11+ 20del20 was more prevalent in non-United Kingdom subjects, both patients and healthy individuals, than in United Kingdom subjects (15.8 vs. 6.2%, P = 0.0008) but not between MG patients and healthy individuals. These data provide no evidence that heteroallelic mutations or polymorphisms in the AChR epsilon subunit are involved in the development of autoimmune early-onset MG but raise issues for future studies.
Lineage-restricted progenitors of the central nervous system (CNS) are not readily expandable because their mitotic competence is limited. Here we used retroviral overexpression of human telomerase reverse transcriptase (hTERT) to immortalize progenitors from human fetal spinal cord. The hTERT-immortalized cells divided in basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) expressed high telomerase activity, and gave rise to phenotypically restricted subpopulations of either glia or neurons. The latter included a prototypic line, hSC11V-TERT, that gave rise only to neurons. These included both chx10(+) interneurons and Islet1(+)/Hb9(+)/ChAT(+) motor neurons; the latter were recognized by green fluorescent protein (GFP) driven by the Hb9 enhancer. The neurons were postmitotic and achieved electrophysiologic competence. Upon xenograft to both fetal rat brain and injured adult spinal cord, they matured as neurons and survived for 6 months, with no evident tumorigenesis. The cells have survived &gt;168 doublings in vitro, with karyotypic normalcy and without replicative senescence. hTERT overexpression thus permits the generation of progenitor lines able to give rise to phenotypically restricted neurons.
The hyh (hydrocephalus with hop gait) mouse shows a markedly small cerebral cortex at birth and dies postnatally from progressive enlargement of the ventricular system. Here we show that the small hyh cortex reflects altered cell fate. Neural progenitor cells withdraw prematurely from the cell cycle, producing more early-born, deep-layer cerebral cortical neurons but depleting the cortical progenitor pool, such that late-born, upper-layer cortical neurons are underproduced, creating a small cortex. hyh mice carry a hypomorphic missense mutation in the gene Napa encoding soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor (NSF) attachment protein alpha (alpha Snap), involved in SNAP receptor (SNARE)-mediated vesicle fusion in many cellular contexts. A targeted null Napa mutation is embryonically lethal. Altered neural cell fate is accompanied by abnormal localization of many apical proteins implicated in regulation of neural cell fate, including E-cadherin, beta-catenin, atypical protein kinase C (aPKC) and INADL (inactivation-no-afterpotential D-like, also known as protein associated with Lin7, or Pals1). Apical localization of the SNARE Vamp7 is also disrupted. Thus, alpha Snap is essential for apical protein localization and cell fate determination in neuroepithelial cells.
Mechanisms of selective attention are vital for guiding human behavior. The parietal cortex has long been recognized as a neural substrate of spatial attention, but the unique role of distinct parietal subregions has remained unclear. Using single-pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation, we found that the angular gyrus of the right parietal cortex mediates spatial orienting during two distinct time periods after the onset of a behaviorally relevant event. The biphasic involvement of the angular gyrus suggests that both fast and slow visual pathways are necessary for orienting spatial attention.

The perceived size of objects touching different regions of skin varies across the body surface by much less than is predicted from variations in tactile receptor density. Here we show that altering the visual experience of the body alters perceived tactile distances. We propose that the brain attempts to preserve tactile size constancy by rescaling the primary, distorted body-surface representation into object-centered space according to visual experience of the body.
Successful axon regeneration in the mammalian central nervous system (CNS) is at least partially compromised due to the inhibitors associated with myelin and glial scar. However, the intracellular signaling mechanisms underlying these inhibitory activities are largely unknown. Here we provide biochemical and functional evidence that conventional isoforms of protein kinase C (PKC) are key components in the signaling pathways that mediate the inhibitory activities of myelin components and chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CSPGs), the major class of inhibitors in the glial scar. Both the myelin inhibitors and CSPGs induce PKC activation. Blocking PKC activity pharmacologically and genetically attenuates the ability of CNS myelin and CSPGs to activate Rho and inhibit neurite outgrowth. Intrathecal infusion of a PKC inhibitor, G6976, into the site of dorsal hemisection promotes regeneration of dorsal column axons across and beyond the lesion site in adult rats. Thus, perturbing PKC activity could represent a therapeutic approach to stimulating axon regeneration after brain and spinal cord injuries.
The generation of distinct cell types during development depends on the competence of progenitor populations to differentiate along specific lineages. Here we investigate the mechanisms that regulate competence of rodent cortical progenitors to differentiate into astrocytes in response to ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF). We found that fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF2), which by itself does not induce astrocyte-specific gene expression, regulates the ability of CNTF to induce expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). FGF2 facilitates access of the STAT/CBP (signal transducer and activator of transcription/CRE binding protein) complex to the GFAP promoter by inducing Lys4 methylation and suppressing Lys9 methylation of histone H3 at the STAT binding site. Histone methylation at this site is specific to the cell's state of differentiation. In progenitors, the promoter is bound by Lys9-methylated histones, and in astrocytes, it is bound by Lys4-methylated histones, indicating that astrocyte differentiation in vivo involves this switch in chromatin state. Our observations indicate that extracellular signals can regulate access of transcription factors to genomic promoters by local chromatin modification, and thereby regulate developmental competence.
The form of a neuron's dendritic arbor determines the set of axons with which it may form synaptic contacts, thus establishing connectivity within neural circuits. However, the dynamic relationship between dendrite growth and synaptogenesis is not well understood. To observe both processes simultaneously, we performed long-term imaging of non-spiny dendritic arbors expressing a fluorescent postsynaptic marker protein as they arborized within the optic tectum of live zebrafish larvae. Our results indicate that almost all synapses form initially on newly extended dendritic filopodia. A fraction of these nascent synapses are maintained, which in turn stabilizes the subset of filopodia on which they form. Stabilized filopodia mature into dendritic branches, and successive iterations of this process result in growth and branching of the arbor. These findings support a 'synaptotropic model' in which synapse formation can direct dendrite arborization.


Here we describe a novel method for imaging apoptosis in cells using a near-infrared fluorescent (NIRF) probe selective for caspase-1 (interleukin 1beta-converting enzyme, ICE). This biocompatible, optically quenched ICE-NIRF probe incorporates a peptide substrate, which can be selectively cleaved by caspase-1, resulting in the release of fluorescence signal. The specificity of this probe for caspase-1 is supported by various lines of evidence: 1) activation by purified caspase-1, but not another caspase in vitro; 2) activation of the probe by infection of cells with a herpes simplex virus amplicon vector (HGC-ICE-lacZ) expressing a catalytically active caspase-1-lacZ fusion protein; 3) inhibition of HGC-ICE-lacZ vector-induced activation of the probe by coincubation with the caspase-1 inhibitor YVAD-cmk, but not with a caspase-3 inhibitor; and 4) activation of the probe following standard methods of inducing apoptosis with staurosporine, ganciclovir, or ionizing radiation in culture. These results indicate that this novel ICE-NIRF probe can be used in monitoring endogenous and vector-expressed caspase-1 activity in cells. Furthermore, tumor implant experiments indicate that this ICE-NIRF probe can be used to detect caspase-1 activity in living animals. This novel ICE-NIRF probe should prove useful in monitoring endogenous and vector-expressed caspase-1 activity, and potentially apoptosis in cell culture and in vivo.
In the field of psychiatric genetics, the concept of endophenotypes is presently receiving high popularity. Current difficulties in the search for susceptibility genes of complex diseases have been attributed to the etiological heterogeneity of the clinical, psychopathologically defined phenotype of the disease. Neurobiological correlates of the disease which are genetically influenced and stable over time are considered to be more promising targets of phenotypes. They are more directly influenced by gene effects and presumably defined by a genetic determination which is less complex than the phenotype of the disorder. The endophenotype strategy has already been successful in complex disorders of other areas in medicine, including alcoholism and late-onset Alzheimer's disease. For schizophrenia, a series of endophenotypes for molecular/genetic investigation has been suggested, but the concept &quot;endophenotype&quot; also provides a basis for biological classification of mental disorders.
Neurons in primary visual cortex respond selectively to oriented stimuli such as edges and lines. The long-range horizontal connections between them are thought to facilitate contour integration. While many physiological and psychophysical findings suggest that collinear or association field models of good continuation dictate particular projection patterns of horizontal connections to guide this integration process, significant evidence of interactions inconsistent with these hypotheses is accumulating. We first show that natural random variations around the collinear and association field models cannot account for these inconsistencies, a fact that motivates the search for more principled explanations. We then develop a model of long-range projection fields that formalizes good continuation based on differential geometry. The analysis implicates curvature(s) in a fundamental way, and the resulting model explains both consistent data and apparent outliers. It quantitatively predicts the (typically ignored) spread in projection distribution, its nonmonotonic variance, and the differences found among individual neurons. Surprisingly, and for the first time, this model also indicates that texture (and shading) continuation can serve as alternative and complementary functional explanations to contour integration. Because current anatomical data support both (curve and texture) integration models equally and because both are important computationally, new testable predictions are derived to allow their differentiation and identification.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has been suggested as a useful tool in early diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Based on MRI-derived volumes, we studied the hippocampus and entorhinal cortex (ERC) in 59 controls, 65 individuals with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and 48 patients with AD. The controls and individuals with MCI were derived from population-based cohorts. Volumes of the hippocampus and ERC were significantly reduced in the following order: control &gt; MCI &gt; AD. Stepwise discriminant function analysis showed that the most efficient overall classification between controls and individuals with MCI subjects was achieved with ERC measurements (65.9%). However, the best overall classification between controls and AD patients (90.7%), and between individuals with MCI and AD patients (82.3%) was achieved with hippocampal volumes. Our results suggest that the ERC atrophy precedes hippocampal atrophy in AD. The ERC volume loss is dominant over the hippocampal volume loss in MCI, whereas more pronounced hippocampal volume loss appears in mild AD.
Rubrospinal neurons (RSNs) undergo marked atrophy after cervical axotomy. This progressive atrophy may impair the regenerative capacity of RSNs in response to repair strategies that are targeted to promote rubrospinal tract regeneration. Here, we investigated whether we could achieve long-term rescue of RSNs from lesion-induced atrophy by adeno-associated viral (AAV) vector-mediated gene transfer of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). We show for the first time that AAV vectors can be used for the persistent transduction of highly atrophic neurons in the red nucleus (RN) for up to 18 months after injury. Furthermore, BDNF gene transfer into the RN following spinal axotomy resulted in counteraction of atrophy in both the acute and chronic stage after injury. These novel findings demonstrate that a gene therapeutic approach can be used to reverse atrophy of lesioned CNS neurons for an extended period of time.
Many patients affected by early onset familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD), carry mutations in the presenilin 1 (PS1) gene. Since it has been suggested that FAD-linked PS1 mutations impair the unfolded protein response (UPR) due to endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress, we analyzed the UPR and amyloid beta-protein processing in fibroblasts bearing various PS1 mutations. Neither in normal conditions nor after induction of ER stress with DTT or tunicamycin were the mRNA levels of UPR-responsive genes (BiP and PDI) significantly different in control and FAD fibroblasts. DTT, which blocked APP transport to the Golgi, caused a 30% decrease of secreted Abeta42 in wild type and PS1 mutant fibroblasts. In contrast, tunicamycin, which allowed exit of APP from the ER, increased secreted Abeta42 only in PS1 mutant fibroblasts. Our findings suggest that, although the UPR is active in fibroblasts from FAD patients, mutant PS1 may selectively increase Abeta42 secretion when N-glycosylation is impaired.
The hyperosmolality associated with diabetes mellitus triggers an increase in neuronal activity and vasopressin production within magnocellular neurosecretory cells (MNCs) of the hypothalamic supraoptic nucleus (SON). In this study, we examined the effect of chronic diabetes on the function and survival of these neurons. After 6 months, but not 6 weeks, of streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetes, we observed an increase in the appearance of small hyperchromatic neurons and a decrease in SON neuronal density. A subpopulation of neurons within the SON at this time point demonstrated positive staining for cleaved caspase-3 and TUNEL, two markers of apoptosis. In addition, the number of vasopressin-positive neurons was decreased. Markers for apoptosis did not colocalize with vasopressin immunopositivity; this was probably due to a diabetes-induced degenerative process causing downregulation of vasopressin expression or depletion of neuropeptide. Although the phenotypes of the apoptotic neurons were not identified, other SON neurons including oxytocin-producing neurons are unlikely to be affected by chronic hyperglycemia. Microglial hypertrophy and condensation were also observed in the 6-month diabetic SON. Although upregulation of vasopressin production in response to acute hyperosmolality is adaptive, prolonged overstimulation of vasopressin-producing neurons in chronic diabetes results in neurodegeneration and apoptosis.
Rett syndrome (RS) is caused by mutations in the gene encoding methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 (MeCP2) and is characterized by arrested postnatal neurodevelopment. We followed the expression of MeCP2 protein in various brain structures of normal rat from birth to 2 years of age. By measuring the amount of protein using the Western blot technique, or by determining the percentage of immunoreactive cells, significant heterogeneity in MeCP2 distribution among various brain areas was observed. Highest expression was found in olfactory bulb and in frontal cortex. In contrast, little expression was detected in caudate-putamen, septum and hippocampus. Except in the olfactive nuclei, very few cells showed detectable MeCP2 protein at birth. The number increased during the first week of age, especially in cortex and nucleus accumbens. Rather than playing a global role in gene transcription, the heterogeneous distribution of MeCP2 transcription factor favors the idea that it has a specialized function in neurons.
Status epilepticus (SE) is characterized by continual seizure activity that can vary widely in the intensity of convulsions. We induced seizures by applying continuous electrical stimulation to the hippocampus in adult rats to explore the effects of three different SE states on neurogenesis and neuronal death in the hippocampus. Rats exhibiting the most severe SE state (fully convulsive) demonstrated profound increases in cell proliferation in the dentate gyrus (DG) at 1 week post-insult, but the majority of the new neurons had died at 4 weeks. In contrast, rats exhibiting less severe SE states (ambulatory or masticatory, partial convulsive) had the same degree of cell proliferation at 1 week, but most new neurons survived at 4 weeks. As compared to partially convulsive SE rats, fully convulsive SE rats had significantly greater DG pathology. Our data indicate that SE of varying severity triggers similar short-term proliferation of neural progenitors, but that the long-term outcome of neurogenesis is influenced by the degree of insult-induced degeneration in the DG tissue environment.
Mice carrying mutated human APPswe and PS1 (A246E) transgenes (A/P mice) show age-dependent memory impairment in hippocampus-dependent tasks. Moreover, the mice show normal learning in the water maze within a day but impairment across days. We recorded LTP in a slice preparation (CA1) and in chronically implanted animals (dentate gyrus, or DG) at 17-18 months of age. The genotypes did not differ in the basal synaptic transmission. Also, LTP induction and its maintenance over 60 min did not differ between A/P and control mice. However, the fEPSP enhancement in vivo decayed to 77% of its maximum in 24 h in A/P mice while remaining at 96% in control mice. The time course of the LTP decay in the A/P mice corresponds to their behavioral impairment and indicates that Abeta accumulation in the dentate gyrus may interfere with the signal transduction pathways responsible for memory consolidation.
Alterations of striatal glutamate receptors are believed to be responsible, at least in part, for the pathogenesis of L-dopa-induced dyskinesias (LID). To evaluate whether co-administration of CI-1041, a novel NMDA receptor antagonist selective for the NR1A/NR2B subtype, with L-dopa might prevent the appearance of this side effect, eight de novo parkinsonian monkeys were treated chronically orally with either L-dopa alone or L-dopa plus CI-1041 (n= 4 for each group). After 4 weeks of treatment with L-dopa alone, all four animals developed moderate dyskinesias either choreic or dystonic in nature. CI-1041 co-treatment completely prevented the induction of dyskinesias in three animals and only one monkey developed mild dyskinesias at the end of the fourth week of treatment in the L-dopa + CI-1041 group. The magnitude and duration of the antiparkinsonian action of L-dopa was similar in both groups. These results suggest that selective NMDA receptor antagonism may be interesting for managing LID in Parkinson's disease patients.
Mitochondrial membrane potentials (MMP) reflect the functional status of mitochondria within cells. Our recently published method provides a semiquantitative estimate of the MMP of populations of mitochondrial-like particles within living cells at 37 degrees C using a combination of conventional fluorescence microscopy and three-dimensional deconvolution by exhaustive photon reassignment. The current studies demonstrate variations in the mean MMP among six different cell types (i.e., human skin fibroblasts, naive and differentiated PC12 cells, SH-SY5Y cells, dopaminergic cells, and primary cultured neurons) and MMP in different parts of the same cells (i.e., growth cones vs. cell bodies). The largest MMP was in nontransformed fibroblasts (mean MMP was -112 +/- 2 mV), while the lowest was in transformed neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells (-87 +/- 2 mV). This method revealed large variations in mean MMP among cells of the same type within a single culture dish. The percent area of the cell occupied by mitochondrial-like particles differed among different cell types, and ranged from 4% in SH-SY5Y to 24% in differentiated PC12 cells. The data can also be analyzed by calculating the sum potential of all of the pixels in a cell. The sum MMP per cell revealed a large range between cell types from -2238 +/- 355 mV/microm2 in SH-Y5Y to -15445 +/- 1039 mV/microm2 in PC12 cells. Although biological implications of heterogeneity of MMP are not clear, this approach provides a tool to address this question.
Induction of the mitochondrial permeability transition has been proposed as an important contributor to cell loss in several neurological disorders, but the evidence that this change can develop in cells in the intact mature brain is largely indirect. In this study, we have tested whether an intrastriatal injection of N-methyl-D-aspartate results in increases in inner membrane permeability that can be detected from mitochondrial accumulation of metabolites of 3H-deoxyglucose previously taken up by brain cells. An increase in incorporation of deoxyglucose metabolites was found in mitochondria prepared from the striatum but not from cerebral cortex distant from the injection site. This change developed more than 8 h after treatment with N-methyl-D-aspartate and is consistent with the induction of the permeability transition as a late change in the progression to irreversible neuronal damage in response to this excitotoxic insult. At earlier times, the restricted permeability of the inner mitochondrial membrane was apparently preserved, at least sufficiently to prevent significant diffusion of metabolites between the cytoplasm and the matrix.
Plasma malondialdehyde (MDA) levels were raised in Friedreich's ataxia (FRDA) patients. These levels correlated with increasing age and disease duration, suggesting lipid peroxidation increased with disease progression. Using fibroblasts from FRDA patients we observed that GSH levels and aconitase activities were normal, suggesting their antioxidant status was unchanged. When exposed to various agents to increase free radical generation we observed that intracellular superoxide generation induced by paraquat caused enhanced oxidative damage. This correlated with the size of the GAA1 expansion, suggesting decreased frataxin levels may render the cells more vulnerable to mild oxidative stress. More severe oxidative stress induced by hydrogen peroxide caused increased cell death in FRDA fibroblasts but was not significantly different from control cells. We propose that abnormal respiratory chain function and iron accumulation may lead to a progressive increase in oxidative damage, but increased sensitivity to free radicals may not require detectable respiratory chain dysfunction.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a hereditary neurodegenerative disorder that gradually robs sufferers of the ability to control movements and induces psychological and cognitive impairments. This devastating, lethal disease is one of several neurological disorders caused by trinucleotide expansions in affected genes, including spinocerebellar ataxias, dentatorubral-pallidoluysian atrophy, and spinal bulbar muscular atrophy. HD symptoms are associated with region-specific neuronal loss within the central nervous system, but to date the mechanism of this selective cell death remains unknown. Strong evidence from studies in humans and animal models suggests the involvement of energy metabolism defects, which may contribute to excitotoxic processes, oxidative dmage, and altered gene regulation. The development of transgenic mouse models expressing the human HD mutation has provided novel opportunities to explore events underlying selective neuronal death in HD, which has hitherto been impossible in humans. Here we discuss how animal models are redefining the role of energy metabolism in HD etiology.

In the central nervous system, neuron generation continues throughout adulthood. This neurogenesis is involved in a continual adaptative process in relation with the environmental complexity. It decreases with age and is reduced in several types of experimental conditions mimicking stress, depression, addiction and neurodegenerative diseases. It may be enhanced after excitotoxic, ischemic or traumatic injuries suggesting a compensatory adaptative response. Available data on this new concept in the field of neurosciences and possible therapeutic relevance are reported.
The role of somatostatin (SS) receptor subtype 1 (SSTR(1)) in mediating the inhibitory effect of SS on growth hormone (GH) secreting pituitary tumors has been recently demonstrated. In the present study, we evaluated the effect of the selective SSTR(1) agonist BIM-23745 on in vitro GH secretion in GH-secreting pituitary tumor cells, deriving from patients resistant or partially responsive to octreotide long-acting release (octreotide-LAR) or lanreotide therapy in vivo and expressing SSTR(1) mRNA. In addition, the inhibiting effect of BIM-23745 on the GH secretion was compared with that of octreotide. Our data demonstrate that (1) SSTR(1) receptor was present in 56.25% (9/16) of the GH-secreting adenomas examined; (2) in all GH-secreting pituitary tumors that expressed SSTR(1), BIM-23745 significantly inhibited GH secretion in vitro, and (3) when SSTR(1) subtype was present in tumors from patients resistant to octreotide-LAR or lanreotide therapy, BIM-23745 was able to inhibit the in vitro GH secretion. In conclusion, the results of the current study suggest that SS analogs selective for the SSTR(1) may represent a further useful approach for the treatment of acromegaly in patients resistant or partially responsive to octreotide-LAR or lanreotide treatment in vivo.
Romantic and maternal love are highly rewarding experiences. Both are linked to the perpetuation of the species and therefore have a closely linked biological function of crucial evolutionary importance. Yet almost nothing is known about their neural correlates in the human. We therefore used fMRI to measure brain activity in mothers while they viewed pictures of their own and of acquainted children, and of their best friend and of acquainted adults as additional controls. The activity specific to maternal attachment was compared to that associated to romantic love described in our earlier study and to the distribution of attachment-mediating neurohormones established by other studies. Both types of attachment activated regions specific to each, as well as overlapping regions in the brain's reward system that coincide with areas rich in oxytocin and vasopressin receptors. Both deactivated a common set of regions associated with negative emotions, social judgment and 'mentalizing', that is, the assessment of other people's intentions and emotions. We conclude that human attachment employs a push-pull mechanism that overcomes social distance by deactivating networks used for critical social assessment and negative emotions, while it bonds individuals through the involvement of the reward circuitry, explaining the power of love to motivate and exhilarate.
We investigated the brain regions that mediate the processing of emotional speech in men and women by presenting positive and negative words that were spoken with happy or angry prosody. Hence, emotional prosody and word valence were either congruous or incongruous. We assumed that an fRMI contrast between congruous and incongruous presentations would reveal the structures that mediate the interaction of emotional prosody and word valence. The left inferior frontal gyrus (IFG) was more strongly activated in incongruous as compared to congruous trials. This difference in IFG activity was significantly larger in women than in men. Moreover, the congruence effect was significant in women whereas it only appeared as a tendency in men. As the left IFG has been repeatedly implicated in semantic processing, these findings are taken as evidence that semantic processing in women is more susceptible to influences from emotional prosody than is semantic processing in men. Moreover, the present data suggest that the left IFG mediates increased semantic processing demands imposed by an incongruence between emotional prosody and word valence.
Humor is a uniquely human quality whose neural substrates remain enigmatic. The present report combined dynamic, real-life content and event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to dissociate humor detection (&quot;getting the joke&quot;) from humor appreciation (the affective experience of mirth). During scanning, subjects viewed full-length episodes of the television sitcoms Seinfeld or The Simpsons. Brain activity time-locked to humor detection moments revealed increases in left inferior frontal and posterior temporal cortices, whereas brain activity time-locked to moments of humor appreciation revealed increases in bilateral regions of insular cortex and the amygdala. These findings provide evidence that humor depends critically upon extant neural systems important for resolving incongruities (humor detection) and for the expression of affect (humor appreciation).
When functional neuroimaging researchers draw conclusions about the sensory, cognitive, or motor processes that are associated with changes in brain activity, they are making assumptions about the component processes involved in performing a complex behavioral task. We demonstrate the danger in making such assumptions using, as an example, the n-back task, which has been widely used in neuroimaging studies of working memory. Neuroimaging researchers have assumed that the letter n-back task only engages processes involved in the short-term maintenance and manipulation of verbal information. We report three behavioral experiments demonstrating that the letter n-back task additionally recruits spatial processes. A fourth experiment suggested that the location n-back task may recruit verbal processes in addition to spatial processes. These results call into question conclusions that have been drawn about the neural basis of working memory. More broadly, our results demonstrate that task analysis is a vital partner of neuroimaging in the cognitive neuroscience enterprise.
The response of human reward systems to different reinforcers, including food, drugs and money, has been investigated in a number of recent functional neuroimaging studies. They have varied, however, in terms of whether or not a behavioural response was required to obtain rewards. The aim of the present study was to determine whether neuronal responses to financial reward are significantly modulated by the requirement to make a behavioural response. Twelve subjects were scanned using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) while performing a simple target detection task. Certain targets acted as cues predicting financial reinforcement; some additionally required that a movement be executed, while others did not. There were also targets that required a movement but were not predictive of reward. We observed, as expected, responses within motor and reward systems associated with main effects of movement and reward, respectively. Critically, the reward responses were significantly modulated by the requirement to make an intervening behavioural response. Blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) responses in the amygdala and striatum were significantly enhanced when a movement was required, while reward-related response in the orbitofrontal cortex was independent of movement. These results suggest important dissociations within human reward systems, reflecting different properties of rewards. The striatum and amygdala may mediate the function of rewards in eliciting goal-directed behaviour, while the orbitofrontal cortex mediates incentive value.
Behavioral evidence suggests that the perceived reason of uncertainty causes different coping strategies to be implemented, particularly frequency ratings with externally attributed uncertainty and memory search with internally attributed uncertainty. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to investigate whether processes related to these different attributions of uncertainty differ also in their neural substrates. Participants had to predict events that were uncertain due to internal factors, that is, insufficient knowledge. Data were compared with a preceding study in which event prediction was uncertain due to external factors, that is, event probabilities. Parametric analyses revealed the posterior frontomedian cortex, that is, mesial Brodmann Area 8 (BA 8) as the common cortical substrate mediating processes related to uncertainty no matter what the cause of uncertainty. However, processes related to the two differently attributed types of uncertainty differed significantly in relation to the brain network that was coactivated. Only processes related to internally attributed uncertainty elicited activation within the mid-dorsolateral and posterior parietal areas known to underlie working memory (WM) functions. Together, findings from both experiments suggest that there is a common cerebral correlate for uncertain predictions but different correlates for coping strategies of uncertainty. Concluding, BA 8 reflects that we are uncertain, coactivated networks what we do to resolve uncertainty.


Motor unit (MU) enlargement by sprouting is an important compensatory mechanism for loss of functional MUs during normal aging and neuromuscular disease. Perisynaptic Schwann cells at neuromuscular junctions extend processes that bridge between denervated and reinnervated endplates, and guide axonal sprouts to reinnervate the denervated endplates. In a rat model of partial denervation, high levels of daily neuromuscular activity have been shown to inhibit the outgrowth of sprouts by preventing Schwann cell bridging. In this review, we consider (1) the relative roles of increasing levels of oxidative stress and neuromuscular activity to the destabilization of neuromuscular junctions with age and disease, and (2) how a progressive increase in the neuromuscular activity of declining numbers of functional MUs contributes to the progressive failure of adaptive sprouting and, in turn, to the progressive muscle weakness in the motoneuron diseases of post-polio syndrome and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. We conclude that there is a time-related progression of MU loss, adaptive sprouting followed by maladaptive sprouting, and continuing recession of terminals during normal aging. The progression is accelerated in motoneuron disease, progressing more rapidly in the post-polio syndrome after prolonged denervation and extremely rapidly in ALS.
Biological nerve grafts have been extensively utilized in the past to repair peripheral nerve injuries. More recently, the use of synthetic guidance tubes in repairing these injuries has gained in popularity. This review focuses on artificial conduits, nerve regeneration through them, and an account of various synthetic materials that comprise these tubes in experimental animal and clinical trials. It also lists and describes several biomaterial considerations one should regard when designing, developing, and manufacturing potential guidance channel candidates. In the future, it it likely that the most successful synthetic nerve conduit will be one that has been fabricated with some of these strategies in mind.


In the present paper, the role played by Na+/Ca2+ exchanger (NCX) in focal cerebral ischemia was investigated. To this aim, permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (pMCAO) was performed in male rats. The effects on the infarct volume of some inhibitors, such as tyrosine-6 glycosylated form of the exchanger inhibitory peptide (GLU-XIP), benzamil derivative (CB-DMB) and diarylaminopropylamine derivative (bepridil), and of the NCX activator, FeCl3, were examined. FeCl3, CB-DMB, bepridil and GLU-XIP, a modified peptide synthesized in our laboratory in order to facilitate its entrance into the cells through the glucose transporter, were intracerebroventricularly (i.c.v.) infused. FeCl3 (10 microg/kg) was able to reduce the extension of brain infarct volume. This effect was counteracted by the concomitant icv administration of CB-DMB (120 microg/kg). All NCX inhibitors, GLU-XIP, CB-DMB and bepridil, caused a worsening of the brain infarct lesion. These results suggest that a stimulation of NCX activity may help neurons and glial cells that are not irreversibly damaged in the penumbral zone to survive, whereas its pharmacological blockade can compromise their survival.
Tolcapone and entacapone are catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) inhibitors used as adjuncts to levodopa in the treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD). The use of tolcapone has been limited by its hepatotoxicity, the cause of which remains uncertain. Tolcapone compound is an uncoupler of mitochondrial respiration in isolated mitochondria and this action may be relevant to its effect on liver function. We have examined the actions of COMT inhibitors on cultured cells, comparing them with those of the classical uncoupler carbonyl cyanide p-(trifluoromethoxy) phenylhydrazone (FCCP), in order to provide insight into their mechanism of potential toxicity. Tolcapone and FCCP were shown to be toxic to human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells and caused a profound reduction in ATP synthesis. Entacapone was not toxic to SH-SY5Y. Tolcapone and FCCP were shown to be equally toxic to cells depleted of mtDNA and thus devoid of a functional respiratory chain. This study demonstrates that tolcapone markedly inhibits ATP synthesis in cultured cells mirroring the effects of a classical uncoupler. However its toxicity may also involve a mechanism independent of its effects upon oxidative phosphorylation.
Abnormal cholinergic neurotransmission has been suggested to occur in psychiatric illness. Therefore, this study investigated cholinergic muscarinic receptors in the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) of schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and major depression disorder (n=15 per group). We used quantitative autoradiography to measure [(3)H]pirenzepine binding to M1 and M4 receptors. Brain tissue was obtained from the Stanley Foundation Neuropathology Consortium. [(3)H]pirenzepine binding was higher in superficial laminae (I-II) than in deep laminae (III-VI) of the ACC. There was a significant 24% reduction in the density of [(3)H]pirenzepine in the deep laminae and a significant 19% reduction in the upper laminae of the ACC in the schizophrenia group compared to the control group. There were no differences in [(3)H]pirenzepine binding in any laminae of the ACC in the bipolar or major depression groups compared with the control group, except for a trend towards decreased [(3)H]pirenzepine binding in subjects with major depression relative to control subjects. We also detected a significant effect of suicide on [(3)H]pirenzepine binding in the ACC in subjects who died as a result of suicide relative to those who did not, which was more evident in patients with schizophrenia. A significant effect of the onset of the disease was also observed that was more evident in patients with bipolar disorder. The study provides evidence of decreased muscarinic receptor density in the ACC in schizophrenia but no evidence for significant changes in these receptors in the bipolar and major depression groups. The changes observed in schizophrenia may contribute to dysfunctional ACC neural circuits.
LY354740 is a potent and selective agonist for group II metabotropic glutamate (mGlu) receptors, mGlu2 and mGlu3 receptors, with anxiolytic activity in several animal models of anxiety, including the elevated plus maze (EPM) test. Here, we studied neuronal activation in mouse brain after EPM exposure in saline- and LY354740-treated mice using c-Fos immunoreactivity as a marker. The effect of LY354740 on c-Fos expression was also studied in cage control (no EPM) mice. Pretreatment with LY354740 (20 mg/kg, s.c.) produced robust anxiolytic behavior on the EPM. LY354740 administration decreased EPM-induced increases in c-Fos expression in the CA3 of the hippocampus, while having no significant effects on basal c-Fos expression in the hippocampus. LY354740 administration significantly increased c-Fos expression in specific limbic regions, including the lateral division of the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeL), lateral parabrachial nucleus, locus coeruleus, and Edinger-Westphal nucleus, whether or not animals were exposed to the EPM. Moreover, LY354740 administration per se significantly increased c-Fos expression in regions processing sensory information, including the paraventricular and lateral geniculate nucleus of the thalamus as well as the nucleus of the optic tract and superior colliculus. In particular, the suppression of fear-evoked neuronal activity in the hippocampus and drug-induced increases in neuronal activation in the CeL have been previously linked to the anxiolytic effects of clinically effective drugs such as benzodiazepines, and thus may contribute to anxiolytic actions of LY354740 in animal models and human anxiety patients.
Considerable evidence suggests that arginine vasopressin (AVP) is critically involved in the regulation of many social and nonsocial behaviors, including emotionality. The existence of two AVP receptors in the brain, namely the V1a and V1b subtypes, and the lack of clear pharmacological data using selective agonists or antagonists, make it difficult to determine which receptor is responsible for the AVP-mediated effects on behavior. Here we report the behavioral effects of a null mutation in the V1a receptor (V1aR) in male mice. Male mice lacking functional V1aR (V1aRKO) exhibit markedly reduced anxiety-like behavior and a profound impairment in social recognition. V1aRKO performed normally on spatial and nonsocial olfactory learning and memory tasks. Acute central administration of AVP robustly stimulated stereotypical scratching and autogrooming in wild-type (WT), but not V1aRKO males. AVP and oxytocin (OT) mRNA and OT receptor-binding levels were similar in WT and V1aRKO mice. Given the current findings, the V1aR may provide a novel potential pharmacological target for social and affective disorders including autism, and anxiety disorders.
Membrane-type-1 matrix metalloproteinase (MT1-MMP) knockout (KO) mice fail to gain weight and die 3-4 weeks after birth. To understand the wasting phenotype in MT1-MMP-KO mice we studied the expression of some hypothalamic neuropeptides involved in control of appetite and body weight. In MT1-MMP-KO mice, neuronal perikarya in the arcuate nucleus displayed accumulations of NPY and agouti-related protein (AgRP) immunoreactivity (-ir). In contrast, NPY-ir and AgRP-ir were reduced in the projection areas of the arcuate neurons. NPY and AgRP are known to relay metabolic signals from the periphery into the brain to stimulate body weight gain. Their altered subcellular distribution suggests that MT1-MMP is involved in postnatal development of the arcuate NPY/AgRP-system which may contribute to the generation of the wasting phenotype.
The present study investigated whether event-related potentials (ERPs) reflect non-voluntary vs voluntary processing of emotional prosody. ERPs were obtained while participants processed emotional information non-voluntarily (i.e. while evaluating semantic characteristics of a stimulus) and voluntarily (i.e. while evaluating emotional characteristics of a stimulus). Results suggest that emotional prosody is processed around 160 ms after stimulus onset under non-voluntary processing conditions (when the attention is diverted from the emotional meaning of the tone of voice); and around 360 ms under voluntary processing conditions. The findings support the notion that emotional prosody is processed non-voluntarily in the comprehension of a spoken message.
The ability to detect dynamic changes in brain activity during affective processing within individual subjects in real-time can advance our understanding of the neural mechanisms of emotion, psychiatric illness, and therapeutic intervention. We investigated whether activity in limbic and paralimbic regions elicited by blocks of aversive (AV) and neutral (NEU) pictures can be detected by real-time fMRI. Real-time analysis of signal change during each block revealed that activations in insula and medial frontal cortex were more frequent during AV than NEU epochs. Single subject and group analysis off-line with conventional statistical parametric mapping methods matched the results obtained in real-time. Detecting cortico-limbic brain activation during perception and experience of emotionally salient visual stimuli with real-time fMRI technology is feasible.
The aim of the present study was to assess the effect of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) delivery mediated by a recombinant adenovirus (AdCMVgdnf or AdCMVlacZ) on the functional recovery and central neuronal atrophy in adult rats with spinal cord injury. Bilateral electrolytic lesions were made in the corticospinal tracts at the T10 vertebral level in a rat model. AdCMVgdnf or AdCMVlacZ was injected at the lesion site immediately after operation. After 2-3 weeks the neurological score and the inclined plane angle were significantly higher and the soma size of corticospinal motoneurons was larger in the AdCMVgdnf group compared with the AdCMVlacZ group. These results demonstrated that adenovirus-mediated delivery of GDNF could prevent the retrograde atrophy of corticospinal motoneurons and improve the motor function in rats with spinal cord injury.
During development, survival of midbrain dopamine neurons and specification of their phenotype are dependent upon the intracellular expression of a number of transcription factors, including Engrailed 1, Pitx3, and Nurr1. The role of these transcription factors in the maintenance of the dopaminergic phenotype is less clear. In the present study, we show that each of these transcription factors is robustly expressed in adult dopamine neurons in human midbrain, and that cocaine abuse is associated with a significant decrease in the abundance of Nurr1 and Pitx3 in these cells. These data suggest that cocaine abuse leads to a partial loss of dopaminergic phenotype.

Outer hair cells (OHC) are mechanosensitive sensory cells of the inner ear cochlea and are involved in modulating the activity of inner hair cells in the transduction of an acoustic stimulus. Potassium (K(+)) currents play an important role in the sensory transduction process. K(+) currents were recorded from acutely dissociated OHC obtained from the guinea pig organ of Corti. The whole-cell patch clamp technique was employed. We identified a channel that exhibited outward current of the delayed rectifier type (Kv). Kv channels mediating inward currents carried by potassium ions were also identified and took on the appearance of a previously described inwardly rectifying current. Lead (Pb(2+)) acetate at concentrations of 0.1, 1.0, 10, and 100 microM was bath applied. Time to activation for outward-going current was not affected by Pb(2+). The time course of Pb(2+) effects was seen as a dose-dependent reduction of K(+) current over time, with very little or no recovery after washout. Pb(2+) inhibited the outward Kv relative current with values of 0.10, 0.14, 0.18, and 0.30 at 0.1, 1.0, 10, and 100 microM, respectively. Pb(2+) did not modulate time to activation, peak current, or inactivation of inward I(K). The effects of Pb(2+) on the potassium currents of OHC are not remarkable and therefore OHC are probably not a major cause of purported peripheral hearing loss observed in Pb(2+)-exposed animals and humans.
In our previous studies [J. Comp. Neurol. 435 (2001) 263] we demonstrated that rhesus monkeys born to mothers receiving cocaine orally during the period of pregnancy when neurons destined for the cerebral neocortex were generated displayed inappropriate positioning of neocortical neurons, loss of normal neocortical lamination, and reduction in neocortical volume, density and total number of neocortical neurons. In the present paper, we examined whether these cytoarchitectural abnormalities were related to the relatively high blood levels of the cocaine metabolite, benzoylecgonine, associated with oral cocaine administration. We also evaluated the role of vasoconstriction of the uteroumbilical and fetal brain vessels in the generation of these abnormalities. For these purposes, we compared cerebral neocortical cytoarchitecture in 2-month-old monkeys from five groups of mothers: (1). a drug-nave group, (2). a cocaine-treated group, (3). a group treated with benzoylecgonine at doses producing higher blood levels of this metabolite and stronger vasoconstriction that those in the cocaine-treated group, (4). a group treated with cocaine plus the vasodilator, isosorbide dinitrate, which counteracted the vasoconstrictive actions of cocaine, and (5). a group exposed to isosorbide dinitrate alone. All treatments were carried out from the 45 th through 102 nd day of pregnancy. We found that the general appearance of the neocortex and the position and number of neocortical neurons in the offspring of benzoylecgonine- and isosorbide dinitrate-treated mothers were indistinguishable from those in the offspring of drug-nave mothers. In contrast, significant alterations in these parameters (similar to those seen in our previous studies) were observed in the offspring of cocaine and cocaine + isosorbide dinitrate-treated mothers. These findings suggest that it is unlikely that either benzoylecgonine or vasoconstriction are responsible for the abnormalities seen in the neocortical cytoarchitecture in our non-human primate model of prenatal cocaine exposure.

Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is an X-linked, lethal muscle disorder caused by mutations in the dystrophin gene. Although an adeno-associated virus (AAV) vector-mediated gene transfer provides an attractive approach to the treatment of DMD, limitation in insertion size up to 4.9 kb excludes incorporation of a full-length dystrophin cDNA (14 kb) into an AAV vector. We previously generated micro-dystrophin transgenic dystrophin-deficient mdx mice. In 4.9 kb rod-truncated micro-dystrophin CS1 transgenic mdx mice, dystrophic phenotypes were ameliorated almost completely (Biochem Biophys Res Commun 2002; 293:1265-72). We therefore constructed an AAV vector expressing micro-dystrophin CS1 driven by a skeletal muscle-specific MCK promoter, as the expression of the LacZ gene driven by the MCK promoter is longer in an AAV vector than in the CMV promoter in the skeletal muscle (Gene Ther 2002; 9:1576-88). We injected the AAV-MCK delta CS1 into the anterior tibial (TA) muscles of 5-week-old mdx mice, which exhibit active cycles of muscle degeneration/regeneration. At 8 weeks after the AAV vector injection, a large percentage of fibers were dystrophic-positive (10 to 50%). Even 24 weeks after injection, 15 to 75% of myofibers expressed micro-dystrophin. Dystrophin-positive fibers often had centrally located nuclei in the mice, however, the ratio was significantly reduced compared with that of dystrophin-negative fibers. We also measured tetanic force of AAV-MCK delta CS1-treated and non-treated mdx TA to evaluate functional amelioration. Non-treated mdx TA muscles showed marked reduction of specific tetanic force, while AAV-injected muscles showed moderate improvement. In conclusion, our study demonstrated that introduction of delta CS1 micro-dystrophin with an AAV vector successfully protected mdx muscles from progressive dystrophic degeneration.
The internal optics of the recent models of the Shin-Nippon SRW-5000 autorefractor (also marketed as the Grand Seiko WV-500) have been modified by the manufacturer so that the infrared measurement ring has been replaced by pairs of horizontal and vertical infrared bars, on either side of fixation. The binocular, open field-of-view, allowing the accommodative state to be objectively monitored while a natural environment is viewed, has made the SRW-5000 a valuable tool in further understanding the nature of the oculomotor response. It is shown that the root-mean-square of model eye measures was least (0.017 +/- 0.002 D) when the separation of the horizontal measurement bars were averaged twice. The separation of the horizontal bars changes by 3.59 pixels/dioptre (r2 = 0.99), allowing continuous on-line analysis of the refractive state at up to 60 Hz temporal resolution to an accuracy of &lt;0.001 D, with pupils &gt;3 mm. The pupil edge is not obscured in the diagonal axis by the measurement bars, unlike the ring of the original optics, so in the newer model pupil size can be measured simultaneously at the same rate with a resolution of &lt;0.001 mm. The measurements of accommodation and pupil size are relatively unaffected by eccentricity of viewing up to +/-10 degrees from the visual axis and instrument focusing inaccuracies over a range of 10 mm towards the eye and 5 mm away from the eye. The resolution and temporal properties of the analysis are therefore ideal for the simultaneous measurement of dynamic accommodation and pupil responses.
Optical coherence tomography is a versatile tool for visualization and measurement of corneal and anterior segment anatomy. Keratorefractive surgery, anterior chamber biometry, and angle assessment are some of the applications that should benefit from this technology.


The ketogenic diet (KD) is a high-fat, low-carbohydrate, and low-protein diet that is widely used to treat epilepsy in children. Although the KD has been shown to be efficacious in the treatment of childhood epilepsy, the long-term effects of the KD on brain development are not clear. The objective of this study was to examine the long-term effects of the KD on visual-spatial memory, activity level, and emotionality in immature rats after status epilepticus (SE). Weanling rats were subjected to lithium/pilocarpine-induced SE or saline injections and were then randomized to either the KD or regular rat diet, both fed ad libitum. One month later, rats were evaluated for visual-spatial memory in the water maze, activity level in the open field test, and emotionality with the handling test. Spontaneous recurrent seizures were measured using videotaping, and seizure susceptibility was tested with flurothyl inhalation. Brains were weighed and examined for mossy fiber sprouting and cell loss. Although rats treated with the KD were active and seemed healthy, their weight gain was substantially lower than that in rats that received regular rat diet. The KD reduced the number of spontaneous seizures but had no discernible effect on flurothyl seizure susceptibility. KD-fed rats, with or without SE, had significantly impaired visual-spatial learning and memory compared with rats that were fed regular diet. The KD had minimal effects on activity level and emotionality. Rats that were treated with the KD had significantly impaired brain growth. No differences in pathology scores between the KD and regular diet groups were seen after SE. Despite reducing the number of spontaneous seizures after SE, the KD resulted in severe impairment in visual-spatial memory and decreased brain growth, with no effect on mossy fiber sprouting. This study raises concerns about the long-term effects of the KD on brain development.
Although a dynamic link between the two innate drives, appetite for food and the urge to reproduce, in vertebrate evolution has been known for a long time, a distinct neurochemical pathway mediating this integration has only recently been appreciated. Study of the precise anatomy of the neural track began in the early to mid 20th century after the sites of genesis of the two instincts were localized to the hypothalamus. This report narrates the birth and fruition to maturity of insights into the commonality of hypothalamic neuropeptide Y (NPY) signaling for the two instinctual drives along two distinct pathways.
Immunohistochemical techniques offer specificity as well as flexibility for visualizing antigens. Their use with freely floating sections provides a high signal-to-noise ratio and has become a gold standard for brain and a number of other tissues. Yet this approach initially suffered from inability to keep the antigenicity in tissue sections and required immediate processing of all cut sections. Use of sucrose solutions enabled storage at refrigerator temperatures for a few days but longer-term storage was risky and either bacterial/fungal growth or evaporation of the storage solution compromised the integrity of the tissue. Our discovery 25 years ago that tissue sections can be stored for many years at -20 degrees C in an anti-freeze cryoprotectant solution with no loss of antigenicity solved this problem and has become widely used. More recently the utility of tissue stored for many years in anti-freeze cryoprotectant was pushed to new levels by testing new non-radioactive in situ hybridization (ISH) techniques that are based on modern immunocytochemistry. This review touches upon these advances in immunocytochemical technology using examples from neuroscience applications.
Twenty-five years ago, very little was known about chemical communication in the afferent limb of the baroreceptor reflex arc. Subsequently, considerable anatomic and functional data exist to support a role for the tachykinin, substance P (SP), as a neuromodulator or neurotransmitter in baroreceptor afferent neurons. Substance P is synthesized and released from baroreceptor afferent neurons, and excitatory SP (NK1) receptors are activated by baroreceptive input to second-order neurons. SP appears to play a role in modulating the gain of the baroreceptor reflex. However, questions remain about the specific role and significance of SP in mediating baroreceptor information to the central nervous system (CNS), the nature of its interaction with glutaminergic transmission, the relevance of colocalized agents, and complex effects that may result from mediation of non-baroreceptive signals to the CNS.
After commenting on some perceived reasons why our review may have been relatively frequently cited, a brief overview is presented that first summarizes what we knew 25 years ago about the dynamic neuronal-astroglial interactions that occur in response to changes in the physiological state of the animal. The brain system in which these dynamic interactions were studied was the magnocellular hypothalamo-neurohypophysial system (mHNS) of the rat. The mHNS developed as and continues to be the model system yielding the most coherent picture of dynamic morphological changes and insights into their functional consequences. Many other brain areas, however, have more recently come under scrutiny in the search for glial-neuronal dynamisms. Outlined next are some of the questions concerning this phenomenon that led to the research efforts immediately following the initial discoveries, along with the answers, both complete and incomplete, obtained to those research questions. The basis for this first wave of follow-up research can be characterized by the phrase &quot;what we knew we didn't know at that time.&quot; The final section is an update and brief overview of highlights of both &quot;what we know now&quot; and &quot;what we now know that we don't know&quot; about dynamic neuronal-astroglial interactions in the mHNS.
Prostate cancer is the second leading cause of cancer deaths in American males, resulting in an estimated 37,000 deaths annually, typically the result of metastatic disease. A consequence of the unsuccessful androgen ablation therapy used initially to treat metastatic disease is the emergence of androgen-insensitive prostate cancer, for which there is currently no prescribed therapy. Here, three related human prostate cancer cell lines that serve as a model for this dominant form of prostate cancer metastasis were studied to determine the correlation between voltage-gated sodium channel expression/function and prostate cancer metastatic (invasive) potential: the non-metastatic, androgen-dependent LNCaP LC cell line and two increasingly tumorogenic, androgen-independent daughter cell lines, C4 and C4-2. Fluorometric in vitro invasion assays indicated that C4 and C4-2 cells are more invasive than LC cells. Immunoblot analysis showed that voltage-gated sodium channel expression increases with the invasive potential of the cell line, and this increased invasive potential can be blocked by treatment with the specific voltage-gated sodium channel inhibitor, tetrodotoxin (TTX). These data indicate that increased voltage-gated sodium channel expression and function are necessary for the increased invasive potential of these human prostate cancer cells. When the human adult skeletal muscle sodium channel Na(v1.4) was expressed transiently in each cell line, there was a highly significant increase in the numbers of invading LC, C4, and C4-2 cells. This increased invasive potential was reduced to control levels by treatment with TTX. These data are the first to indicate that the expression of voltage-gated sodium channels alone is sufficient to increase the invasive potential of non-metastatic (LC cells) as well as more aggressive cells (i.e., C4 and C4-2 cells). Together, the data suggest that increased voltage-gated sodium channel expression alone is necessary and sufficient to increase the invasive potential of a set of human prostate cancer cell lines that serve as a model for prostate cancer metastasis.
Substance P (SP) acting at the NK-1 neurokinin receptor has a well-documented role in the transmission and maintenance of nociceptive information. SP is found in the majority of fibers innervating the pancreas, and it is up-regulated after pancreatic inflammation. The aim of this study was to investigate the role of the NK-1 receptors in the maintenance of pancreatic nociception. Using a newly developed rat model of acute pancreatic nociception that persists for 1 week, the NK-1 receptor expression in the spinal cord and pancreas was examined using immunohistochemistry and Western blotting procedures. The effects of a specific NK-1 antagonist, CP99,994, on the behavioral manifestations of pancreatic nociception were determined. The antagonist was administered intraperitoneally and intrathecally to differentiate peripheral and central effects. Injection of CP-100,263, the inactive enantiomer of CP-99,994 was used as a control for nonspecific effects of the antagonist. Immunohistochemistry and Western blotting analysis revealed an up-regulation of the NK-1 receptor occurs in the pancreas but not at the spinal cord level. The NK-1 antagonist was able to attenuate the nociceptive behaviors in rats with pancreatitis when applied intraperitoneally with a short duration of effectiveness. Intrathecal application of the antagonist was ineffective. These results suggest the involvement of pancreatic NK-1 receptors in the maintenance of nociception during pancreatic inflammation.
To assess whether locomotor sensitization induced by repeated injections of the dopamine agonist quinpirole reflects tolerance of the drug's presynaptic depressive effects on locomotion, independent groups of rats were treated chronically (every 3 daysx10) with either a presynaptic dose of quinpirole (0.025 mg/kg; n=27), a postsynaptic dose (0.5 mg/kg; n=27), or saline (n=26). Following chronic treatment, a full dose-response profile was determined to assess the presence of sensitization. Results indicated that treatment with the postsynaptic, but not the presynaptic, dose of quinpirole induced locomotor sensitization. Moreover, chronic treatment with low-dose quinpirole did not yield tolerance of the drug's depressive effects. It is suggested that presynaptic dopamine receptors may require extensive spatial and/or temporal summation to become tolerant.
In spite of the addictive properties of cannabinoids, under certain circumstances, they can evoke strong anxiogenic and aversive responses in humans and in animal tests of anxiety. Effects of different doses of CP 55,940 (10, 20, and 40 microg/kg) were tested in the low-light, familiar (LF) apparatus test condition of the social interaction test. The 40-microg/kg dose of CP 55,940 significantly decreased the time spent in social interaction, indicating an anxiogenic effect. This dose also had an independent effect of reducing locomotor activity. In rats tested undrugged 24 h after testing with 40 microg/kg, there was a significant anxiogenic effect, indicating conditioned anxiety. The group of rats injected with 40 microg/kg immediately after the social interaction test showed an unexpected significant anxiolytic effect when tested undrugged 24 h later. In an additional experiment, rats were tested in the high-light, familiar (HF) apparatus test condition after 10 or 40 microg/kg, and only those that were tested after 40 microg/kg showed an anxiogenic effect on the test day and a conditioned anxiogenic effect when tested undrugged 24 h later. Once again, those injected with 40 microg/kg after the social interaction test displayed an anxiolytic effect when tested undrugged 24 h later. We provide the first evidence for unconditioned and conditioned anxiogenic-like responses to a cannabinoid agonist in the social interaction test.
Modafinil is a selective wakefulness-promoting agent that has been shown to enhance cognitive performance under conditions of sleep deprivation but which has equivocal effects in normal young volunteers. In a double-blind parallel group design study, 45 non-sleep-deprived middle-aged volunteers (20 men and 25 women, aged 50-67 years) were randomly allocated to receive two capsules containing placebo, 100 or 200 mg modafinil, and 3 h later they completed 100 mm visual analogue scales of mood and bodily symptoms, before and after an extensive battery of cognitive tests [pen and paper and the Cambridge Neuropsychological Test Automated Battery (CANTAB)]. There were no significant treatment-associated changes in ratings of mood or bodily symptoms and no significant effects on most of the cognitive tests used in this study. The group treated with modafinil (200 mg) was significantly faster in a simple colour naming of dots and also significantly better in a test of constructional ability (Clock Drawing Test) compared with the placebo group. However, subjects in the 200-mg group also made significantly more total errors in the Intra/Extradimensional Set Shift (ID/ED) task than both the other groups. Thus, this study found limited evidence of cognitive-enhancing properties of modafinil in healthy middle-aged volunteers.
Prenatal morphine exposure on gestation days 11-18 alters bicuculline-induced seizures in rats during development and in adulthood. Adult, morphine-exposed male progeny exhibit an increased latency to bicuculline seizures, which can be reversed by administration of the opioid receptor antagonist naloxone. In chronically morphine-treated adult mice, cholera toxin B (CTX-B) can reverse the effects of chronic morphine administration. Therefore, the present study investigated whether prenatally morphine-exposed rats show a similar response to CTX-B as chronically morphine-treated adult rodents. Prenatally morphine-, saline- and unexposed male progeny were tested for seizure susceptibility with a 7.5-mg/kg intraperitoneal injection of bicuculline in adulthood. CTX-B or saline was injected subcutaneously at 24, 12, and 0.5 h before bicuculline injection. CTX-B decreased the occurrence of bicuculline-induced seizures in both prenatally saline- and morphine-exposed but not unexposed rats. Furthermore, three, but not one, saline injections administered at 12-h intervals prior to bicuculline administration reversed the increase in seizure latency in prenatally morphine-exposed adult males, suggesting an altered responsiveness of the stress system. The present study demonstrates that CTX-B can decrease the occurrence of bicuculline seizures in prenatally stressed rats and that increased seizure latencies in prenatally morphine-exposed male rats may be related to stress responses.
Motor stereotypy is a common component of several developmental, genetic, and neuropsychiatric disorders. In animals, these behaviors can be induced or attenuated via pharmacological manipulation of specific neural loci comprising cortico basal ganglia-cortical feedback circuits, including the striatum. The present study employed the deer mouse model of spontaneous and persistent stereotypy to assess the involvement of several endogenous neurotransmitters and neuromodulators in mediating the expression of the stereotypic behaviors (i.e., repetitive hindlimb jumping) exhibited by these mice. This was accomplished by employing a microdialysis sampling system coupled on-line to capillary electrophoresis with laser-induced fluorescence (CE-LIF) detection apparatus. Given the 13-s temporal resolution for analyte measurement afforded by this system, discrete behavior-related alterations in striatal neurochemical concentrations were detected. Rearing behavior was found to be associated with significant and selective elevations of striatal glutamate (Glu) and aspartate (Asp) concentrations. Moreover, rearing was found to most frequently precede repetitive jumping. The results also indicated that alterations in striatal serine (Ser) concentrations were involved in the modulation of locomotor activity. The present findings support a role of the striatal glutamatergic system in the mediation of spontaneous stereotypic behavior and suggest a potential neuronal mechanism by which transition to stereotypy occurs in these mice. Moreover, the present findings demonstrate the usefulness of the microdialysis system employed in studying the neurochemical substrates of rapidly transitioning behavior.
Luminal distention of the intestine can be aversive in humans and laboratory animals, and hypersensitivity to distention is found in functional gastrointestinal disorders. Current animal models either require anaesthesia or acute balloon intubation or use implanted balloons of irritant materials, for which the aversive quality of distention and physiological responses have not been well characterised. We report here that silicone balloon catheters implanted in the duodenum via the stomach have long patency without obvious tissue damage. Balloon inflation in freely moving rats caused passive avoidance learning and classic 'pain' postures, as well as graded cardiovascular responses which can be recorded telemetrically. The method should make long-lasting studies of pharmacological and environmental effects on visceral sensitivity more feasible.
Olfactory bulbectomy (OBX) in rats produces behavioral, physiological, and neurochemical changes that resemble symptoms of depression in humans. The procedure thus serves as a rodent model of affective disorder. Many of the behavioral effects of OBX resemble psychomotor agitation. The possible role of dysregulation of ventral striatal dopamine (DA) systems in this phenomenon was investigated. Basal levels of DA, norepinephrine (NE), homovanillic acid, dihydroxyphenylacetic acid, and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid were examined in the striatum of OBX and sham-operated controls using in vivo microdialysis. OBX rats exhibited significantly higher basal DA levels (192%) and lower NE levels (12%) than sham-operated controls. Locomotor activity in response to novelty and footshock stress was elevated in OBX rats. The finding of higher DA levels in striatum may explain this &quot;agitation-like&quot; behavior, a commonly observed phenomenon in the OBX model.
A search of the recently completed genomic database of rice (Oryza sativa) identified a 29-member xyloglucan endotransglucosylase/hydrolase (OsXTH) gene family. This first report of a complete XTH family from a monocotyledonous species reveals that the OsXTH family is comparable in size with that of the dicotyledon Arabidopsis thaliana, which consists of 33 AtXTH genes. This is surprising because xyloglucan, the specific substrate of XTHs, is considerably less abundant in cell walls of monocotyledons than dicotyledons and is not typically ascribed an important structural role in monocotyledons. As a first step toward determining the roles of rice XTHs, the expression patterns of all 29 OsXTH genes were examined using a quantitative DNA microarray procedure with gene-specific oligonucleotide probes. The analysis showed that most members of the rice XTH family exhibited organ- and growth stage-specific expression. This was confirmed by quantitative real-time reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction analysis of representative OsXTH members. This revealed in more detail the temporally and spatially controlled expression profiles of individual OsXTH genes at particular sites in rice. Previous reports indicated that grasses have relatively greater xyloglucan endotransglucosylase activities, one of the two enzyme activities catalyzed by XTHs, than in equivalent tissues in dicotyledons. This observation, together with the tissue-specific and growth stage-dependent expression of a large rice XTH gene family, suggests that xyloglucan metabolism plays a more central role in monocotyledon cell wall restructuring than has been reported previously.
Amphetamine (AMPH) elicits its behavioral effects by acting on the dopamine (DA) transporter (DAT) to induce DA efflux into the synaptic cleft. We previously demonstrated that a human DAT construct in which the first 22 amino acids were truncated was not phosphorylated by activation of protein kinase C, in contrast to wild-type (WT) DAT, which was phosphorylated. Nonetheless, in all functions tested to date, which include uptake, inhibitor binding, oligomerization, and redistribution away from the cell surface in response to protein kinase C activation, the truncated DAT was indistinguishable from the full-length WT DAT. Here, however, we show that in HEK-293 cells stably expressing an N-terminal-truncated DAT (del-22 DAT), AMPH-induced DA efflux is reduced by approximately 80%, whether measured by superfusion of a population of cells or by amperometry combined with the patch-clamp technique in the whole cell configuration. We further demonstrate in a full-length DAT construct that simultaneous mutation of the five N-terminal serine residues to alanine (S/A) produces the same phenotype as del-22-normal uptake but dramatically impaired efflux. In contrast, simultaneous mutation of these same five serines to aspartate (S/D) to simulate phosphorylation results in normal AMPH-induced DA efflux and uptake. In the S/A background, the single mutation to Asp of residue 7 or residue 12 restored a significant fraction of WT efflux, whereas mutation to Asp of residues 2, 4, or 13 was without significant effect on efflux. We propose that phosphorylation of one or more serines in the N-terminus of human DAT, most likely Ser7 or Ser12, is essential for AMPH-induced DAT-mediated DA efflux. Quite surprisingly, N-terminal phosphorylation shifts DAT from a &quot;reluctant&quot; state to a &quot;willing&quot; state for AMPH-induced DA efflux, without affecting inward transport. These data raise the therapeutic possibility of interfering selectively with AMPH-induced DA efflux without altering physiological DA uptake.

Previous studies suggest that long-term cannabis use causes cognitive impairment, including lack of motivation and impaired attention, conditions that also resemble core negative symptoms of schizophrenia. The anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) plays an important role in normal cognition, particularly in relation to motivation and attention. This could suggest that changes in the cannabinoid (CB) system might be present in the ACC of patients suffering schizophrenia. The present study examined the distribution and density of CB1 cannabinoid receptors in the left ACC taken postmortem from patients with schizophrenia (n=10) and matched control subjects (n=9). Radioligand binding of [3H]SR141716A, an antagonist that specifically targets CB1 receptors of the endogenous cannabinoid system, was examined on ACC sections using quantitative autoradiography. CB1 receptors had a homogeneous distribution among the layers of ACC. A significant 64% increase in [3H]SR141716A specific binding to CB1 receptors was found in the schizophrenia group as compared to the control group (mean+/-S.E.M.: 46.15+/-6.22 versus 28.02+/-4.20 fmol/mg estimated tissue equivalents; p=0.03). The present results support the suggestion that changes in the endogenous cannabinoid system in the ACC may be involved in the pathology of schizophrenia particularly in relation to negative symptoms.
Increased neuronal density, cortical thinning, and alterations of GABAergic interneurons in the prefrontal cortex have been associated with the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. This study used antibodies directed against the calcium-binding proteins, calretinin (CR), parvalbumin (PV), and calbindin (CB) to compare the relative density of subpopulations of GABAergic interneurons in BA9 of the prefrontal cortex from six subjects with schizophrenia and six control subjects matched for age, gender, and postmortem interval. The relative density of interneurons expressing CR, PV, or CB did not differ significantly between subjects with schizophrenia and control subjects. In addition, no change in somal size of immunoreactive (IR) neurons or cortical thickness was observed between the two groups. This study supports previous reports consistently demonstrating no change in the relative density of interneurons expressing CR in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex in schizophrenia but does not support previous inconsistent findings that the relative density of interneurons expressing PV and CB might be altered in this disorder.
The brains of all vertebrates are persistently neurogenic. However, this is not true for the neural retinas. Only three extant classes of vertebrates show significant posthatch/postnatal retinal neurogenesis: amphibians, birds and fish. The retinas of these animals contain an annulus of progenitors at the margin, from which differentiated neurons emerge. In posthatch amphibians and fish the vast majority of the adult retina is added from the margin and neurogenesis is lifelong, whereas in posthatch birds neurogenesis is limited. Unique to fish, rod photoreceptors are added in situ from stem cells within the mature retina. Strikingly, for each class of animal retinal lesions stimulate neuronal regeneration, however the cellular source differs for each: the retinal pigmented epithelium in amphibians and embryonic birds, Mller glia in posthatch birds and intrinsic stem cells in fish. The molecular events surrounding injury-induced neuronal regeneration are beginning to be identified.
Two-dimensional gel-electrophoresis in combination with mass spectrometry is a powerful approach to compare protein expression in brain tissues. Using this proteomic approach, and based on the hypothesis that schizophrenia involves hypoglutamergic brain function, alterations in protein levels in the thalamus of rats treated with the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist [+]-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo-[a,d]-cycloheptene-5,10-iminehydrogenmaleate (MK-801), as compared to saline-treated animals, were assessed in an unbiased fashion. The rats were divided into two groups; group 1 (short-term treated) and group 2 (long-term treated). In group 1, the levels of seven proteins were increased and four proteins reduced. In group 2, the levels of six proteins were reduced. Several of the altered proteins (heat shock proteins 60 and 72, albumin, dihydropyrimidinase related protein-2, aldolase c, and malate dehydrogenase) have previously been connected to schizophrenia. Alterations of other proteins (dihydrolipoamide acetyltransferase component of pyruvate dehydrogenase complex E2, guanine deaminase, alpha-enolase, aconitase, ATP-synthase and alpha-internexin), have not, to the best of our knowledge, earlier been implicated in schizophrenia pathology. Our results show the high potential of using proteomic methods for the validation of animal models of schizophrenia and to identify new proteins involved in the pathophysiological mechanisms of schizophrenia.
Post-translational modifications of proteins from the human pituitary gland play an important role in the regulation of different body functions. We report on the application of a liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) based approach to detect and characterize phosphorylated proteins in a whole human pituitary digest. By combining an immobilized metal affinity column-based enrichment method with MS/MS conditions that favor the neutral loss of phosphoric acid from a phosphorylated precursor ion, we identified several previously undescribed phosphorylated peptides. The identified peptides were matched to the sequences of six pituitary proteins: the human growth hormone, chromogranin A, secretogranin I, 60S ribosomal protein P1 and/or P2, DnaJ homolog subfamily C member 5, and galanin. The phosphorylation sites of these important regulatory proteins were determined by MS/MS and MS(3) analysis.


The study's aim was to empirically derive the psychopathological constellation associated with self-centrality (i.e. non-delusional self-referential attitude) by seeking an interpretation in the light of the 'Basic Symptoms Model' of schizophrenic psychopathology. Eighty-four patients with an established schizophrenic illness receiving maintenance treatment at the Psychiatry Section of the Parma University Neuroscience Department were examined. The Scales for the Assessment of Positive and Negative Symptoms, the Calgary Depression Scale and the Toronto Alexithymia Scale were administered to all subjects to determine levels of positive, disorganized, negative and depressive symptoms, as well as alexithymia. Subjective experiences, including non-delusional self-centrality, were explored by means of the Bonn Scale for the Assessment of Basic Symptoms. Logistic regression detected three different psychopathological domains (delusional, alexithymic, and basic body symptoms) strongly associated with self-centrality. Among these the most influential independent variable was basic body symptoms. These results suggest that impaired lived body experience (i.e. protopathic body disattunement) is a psychopathologic condition concomitant with the emergence of autocentric polarization of experience (i.e. self-centrality).






Fou rire prodromique (prodrome of crazy laughter) is a rarely described nosological entity. In 1903, Charles Fr, a French neurologist, introduced the term fou rire prodromique to describe pathological laughter heralding an apoplectic event. He was also among the first to describe gelastic epilepsy. His description was influenced by Edouard Brissaud, who supported the existence of a thalamic center for laughter regulation and suggested that spasmodic laughter and crying were due to lesions of the faisceau psychique (anterior internal capsule) or to irritation of the faisceau gnicul (corticobulbar tract). One hundred Years later, we review the evolution of the theories about pathological laughter and crying from Charles Bell in the early XIXth Century, up to the seminal works of Kinnier Wilson and James Papez and the era of modern neuroscience.
This is an overview of cytokine-induced cholestasis, justified by the insufficient knowledge of this frequent type of cholestasis. In the presence of an infectious agent a systemic and intrahepatic production of proinflammatory cytokines results (TNF-alpha, IL-1beta, IL-6 etc.), stimulated by microbial lipopolysaccharides. In patients having systemic infections, the liver has several major functions: source of the inflammatory cytokines produced as a response to infection and a target of these inflammation mediators. The inflammatory cytokines interfere with the activity of both the sinusoidal and canalicular transporting systems. One of the potential consequences of this process is the appearance of cholestasis. An infection can lead to cholestasis despite the absence of direct invasion of the liver by the infectious agent. Particularly the cholestasis produced when the infection generating agent is not located in the liver (sepsis or extrahepatic infections) has been emphasized. The clinical aspect of the diseases associated with this type of cholestasis and the effects of anti-infectious therapy on cholestasis are presented. Cytokine-induced cholestasis represents a common pathogenic path for several diseases: hepatitides that present with an intrahepatic cholestatic pattern (viral, ethanol-induced, NSAID-induced), but also many other infections, which are sometimes overlooked because of the lack of clinical signs. When a preexistent liver disease is present, the cholestasis incidence is higher. In this latter condition, ignorance of this possible mechanism of cholestasis will lead to misdiagnosis and unnecessary tests, sometimes expensive and useless.
Previous research demonstrates that people with schizophrenia have abnormally 'restricted' visual scanpaths to face and facial expression stimuli, which appear to be diagnostically specific to schizophrenia [Schizophr. Res. 55 (2002) 159; Biol. Psychiatry 52 (2002) 338]. This study examined the familial transmission of 'restricted' scanpaths in first-degree relatives of schizophrenia subjects. We recorded visual scanpaths for 65 schizophrenia subjects, 37 biological first-degree relatives and 61 nonrelated 'healthy' control subjects in two experiments: 'face recognition' and 'facial affect recognition'. Concurrent behavioral tasks were face matching and expression matching, each under two multiple-choice conditions (seven or three options). As predicted, first-degree relatives generally showed an attenuated form of the markedly 'restricted' scanpaths of schizophrenia subjects across all face stimuli. The notable exception to this pattern was the relatives' extreme avoidance of facial features (compared to both schizophrenia and healthy control groups). Our results offer the first evidence that some components of visual scanpath dysfunction may represent a trait marker in the familial transmission of schizophrenia, but that first-degree relatives may have additional disturbances in social cognition associated with the perception of facial features.
Visual disturbances are a common side-effect of many antiepileptic drugs. Non-specific retino- and neurotoxic visual abnormalities, that are often reported with over-dosage and prolonged AED use, include diplopia, blurred vision and nystagmus. Some anticonvulsants are associated with specific visual problems that may be related to the mechanistic properties of the drug, and occur even when the drugs are administered within the recommended daily dose. Vigabatrin, a GABA-transaminase inhibitor, has been associated with bilateral concentric visual field loss, electrophysiological changes, central visual function deficits including reduced contrast sensitivity and abnormal colour perception, and morphological alterations of the fundus and retina. Topiramate, a drug that enhances GABAergic transmission, has been associated with cases of acute closed angle glaucoma, while tiagabine, a GABA uptake inhibitor, has been investigated for a potential GABAergic effect on the visual field. Only mild neurotoxic effects have been identified for patients treated with gabapentin, a drug designed as a cyclic analogue of GABA but exhibiting an unknown mechanism while carbamazepine, an inhibitor of voltage-dependent sodium channels, has been linked with abnormal colour perception and reduced contrast sensitivity. The following review outlines the visual disturbances associated with some of the most commonly prescribed anticonvulsants. For each drug, the ocular site of potential damage and the likely mechanism responsible for the adverse visual effects is described.

Lipopolysaccharide (LPS), the gram-negative bacterial cell wall component, induces tolerance to a secondary challenge of LPS in macrophages (Mphi) as evidenced by reduced inflammatory mediator production. However, it is uncertain if heat-killed (HK) gram-positive bacteria Staphylococcus aureus (Sa) can induce a similar tolerance and alter responses to LPS. We hypothesized that HKSa induces homologous tolerance and cross tolerance to LPS stimulation in human promonocytic THP-1 cells. We measured TNF-alpha, TxB2, and IFN-gamma production and the phosphorylation of p38, JNK, and ERK-1/2 in human promonocytic THP-1 cells. HKSa (10 microg/mL) significantly stimulated naive (nonpretreated) cell TNF-alpha (P&lt;0.05) and TxB2 production (P&lt;0.05). However, HKSa-pretreated cells challenged secondarily with HKSa (10 microg/mL) exhibited a decrease in the production of TNF-alpha (89 +/- 5%, P&lt;0.05) and TxB2 (85 +/- 3%, P&lt;0.05) compared with HKSa-stimulated naive cells. By contrast, secondary LPS challenge of HKSa-pretreated cells augmented TNF-alpha (41 +/- 3%, P&lt;0.05) and TxB2 (42 +/- 6%, P&lt;0.05) compared with LPS-stimulated naive cells. In naive cells, HKSa and LPS stimulation also significantly phosphorylated the mitogen-activated kinases (MAPKs) p38, JNK, and ERK-1/2 (P&lt;0.005) compared with basal levels. HKSa and LPS induced homologous tolerance as evidenced by the down-regulation of the three MAPK (P&lt;0.05), thus paralleling data on mediator production. HKSa-pretreated cells' priming responses to LPS correlated with augmented phosphorylation of JNK and p38 (P&lt;0.05), whereas ERK-1/2 phosphorylation remained down-regulated. In contrast to TNF-alpha and TxB2 production, HKSa-induced IFN-gamma was up-regulated (26 +/- 5%) in HKSa-pretreated cells compared with HKSa-stimulated naive cells. IFN-gamma antibody exhibited reversed priming in HKSa-pretreated cells as evidenced by a reduction in TNF-alpha. Exogenous human IFN-gamma- (1 microg/mL) and HKSa-pretreated cells secondarily stimulated with HKSa did not prevent the induction of tolerance. In contrast, exogenous IFN-gamma pretreatment prevented the induction of LPS homologous tolerance resulting in an increase in TNF-alpha production. The data demonstrate that HKSa induces homologous tolerance but causes priming to LPS.
Patients affected by Parkinson's disease (PD) often complain of disturbed sleep resulting from nighttime motor disabilities such as nocturnal akinesia, tremor and rigidity, motor behaviour during REM sleep or periodic leg movements (PLM) during sleep. Sleep may also be affected by dopaminergic and anticholinergic drugs or coexisting depressive syndrome. Deep brain stimulation (DBS) of subthalamic nucleus (STN) effectively reduces PD motor disability. The aim of this study is to evaluate the sleep architecture modifications after STN DBS. We assessed five patients (two men and three women, mean age 63.8+/-3.3 years, with a mean history of PD of 13.8+/-4.9 years) who underwent STN DBS. The mean levodopa equivalent dosage (LED) was 1010+/-318 mg before surgery and 116+/-93 mg 3 months after surgery. Polysomnography (PSG) with audiovisual recordings was performed on two separate nights, the first assessment in the week before surgery and the second 3 months after surgery. Three months after surgery, PSG showed an increase in total sleep time, in the longest period of uninterrupted sleep, and in the percentage of stage 3-4 NREM sleep, while there was a reduction of wakefulness after sleep onset. PLM, apnea-hyopnea index and REM sleep behaviour disorder were unaffected by STN DBS. STN DBS seems to be an effective therapeutic option for the treatment of advanced Parkinson's disease because it improves the cardinal symptoms and also seems to improve sleep architecture.
Recent molecular biology research on neurodegenerative diseases, including parkinsonisms, has identified mutations in the genes that code for the proteins alpha-synuclein and tau, which have been used to classify them into synucleinopathies and tauopathies. The synucleinopathies include, besides the most common and well studied Parkinson's disease (PD), dementia with Lewy bodies, which accounts for approximately 20% of all cases of dementia in the elderly, and multiple system atrophy, whereas the tauopathies include rare and rapidly progressive syndromes, such as progressive supranuclear palsy and corticobasal degeneration. Data we collected at our center in over 2900 parkinsonian patients show that PD accounts for no more than 70% of parkinsonisms. The various syndromes have many features in common that make the differential diagnosis difficult in the early stages of disease. Our data are consistent with the findings reported in the international literature and provide additional information useful for differential diagnosis.
Sleep disturbances are common in extrapyramidal diseases, including not only insomnia but excessive daytime sleepiness and parasomnias. In particular, complaints related to sleep are extremely common among patients affected by Parkinson's disease (PD). The underlying causes may include: patient age, associated illnesses, cognitive impairment, motor dysfunction caused by disease, neurochemical changes related to the disease, drugs, and secondary psychological responses to the disease. The exact prevalence of sleep disorders in PD is difficult to ascertain, due to the heterogeneity of patients as well as to the different criteria and methods used to diagnose and classify sleep disturbances. In this study, we will attempt to review the epidemiological data and to describe the various sleep disorders, which have been identified in extrapyramidal diseases, with particular reference to PD. There are no data available at present as to the role of gender in sleep disturbances. Finally, the benefit of sleep on extrapyramidal diseases will be addressed, taking into account that the above causes may modify the effects of sleep.

The primary motor cortices controlling foot movement are located on opposite sides of the longitudinal fissure. As a separation of closely located activity sources is not successful, the possibility of bilateral activation for lower limb movement remains undetermined. We therefore examined cerebral activity during unilateral foot movement to investigate the possibility of bilateral activation of primary foot motor cortices. Self-paced foot movement and finger movement (for comparison) were performed on ten subjects. Brain magnetic fields were recorded using a 64-channel whole-cortex magnetoencephalography (MEG) system. Brain activities were identified using 1- to 3-dipole models. Results evaluating finger movement were similar to previous reports. Equivalent current dipoles (ECDs) for foot movements were estimated in the primary foot motor and sensory regions. Sensory activity was always localized to the contralateral hemisphere. Motor activity was estimated by one ECD, but the laterality differed between subjects. Additional activity was discovered together with the primary motor activity, localized around the precentral sulcus. In contrast to consistent results of primary sensory activity, the variation of laterality of the foot primary motor ECD can be explained with a cancellation model, in which the magnetic fields generated from two closely spaced ECDs overlap to cancel each other out. Consequently, activation of the primary foot motor cortices was determined to be bilateral. Furthermore, it was estimated that additional activity may occur in the premotor area. This work suggests not only the bilateral activation of the primary foot motor cortices but also the possibility of a contribution of the premotor area.
Somatosensory point localization is a clinical test evaluating spatial accuracy of the somatosensory system. Possible effects of the interstimulus interval (ISI) on point localization threshold have not been previously examined. In the present set of experiments the effect of time delay on somatosensory point localization was studied using ISIs of 1, 3, 5, 7, and 9 s, and applying a newly developed computer-controlled application method of a Semmes-Weinstein monofilament. It was found that the point localization threshold was not significantly affected by the ISI length. However, the response time was shorter and response accuracy better at the shorter (1 and 3 s) than at the longer (5, 7, and 9 s) ISIs, suggesting a change in the mechanism underlying point localization decision criteria in ISIs longer than 3 s.







Nanotechnology can be defined as the science and engineering involved in the design, synthesis, characterization, and application of materials and devices whose smallest functional organization in at least one dimension is on the nanometer scale or one billionth of a meter. At these scales, consideration of individual molecules and interacting groups of molecules in relation to the bulk macroscopic properties of the material or device becomes important, since it is control over the fundamental molecular structure that allows control over the macroscopic chemical and physical properties. Applications to medicine and physiology imply materials and devices designed to interact with the body at subcellular (i.e., molecular) scales with a high degree of specificity. This can potentially translate into targeted cellular and tissue-specific clinical applications designed to achieve maximal therapeutic affects with minimal side effects. In this review the main scientific and technical aspects of nanotechnology are introduced and some of its potential clinical applications are discussed.
Most information available to date regarding the cellular and synaptic mechanisms of target cell selection and specific synapse formation has primarily come from in vitro cell culture studies. Whether fundamental mechanisms of synapse formation revealed through in vitro studies are similar to those occurring in vivo has not yet been determined. Taking advantage of the regenerative capabilities of adult molluscan neurons, we demonstrate that when transplanted into the host ganglia an identified neuron reestablishes its synaptic connections with appropriate targets in vivo. This synaptogenesis, however, was possible only if the targets were denervated from the host cell. Specifically, the giant dopamine neuron right pedal dorsal 1 (RPeD1) located in the pedal ganglia was isolated from a donor brain and transplanted into the visceral ganglia of the recipient brain. We discovered that within 2-4 days the transplanted RPeD1 exhibited extensive regeneration. However, simultaneous intracellular recordings failed to reveal synapses between the transplanted cell and its targets in the visceral ganglia, despite physical overlap between the neurites. To test whether the failure of a transplanted cell to innervate its target was due to the fact that the targets continued to receive input from the native RPeD1, the latter soma was surgically removed prior to the transplantation of RPeD1. Even after the removal of host soma, the transplanted RPeD1 failed to innervate the targets such as visceral dorsal 4 (VD4)-despite extensive regeneration by the transplanted cell. However, when RPeD1 axon was allowed to degenerate completely, the transplanted RPeD1 successfully innervated all of its targets and these synapses were similar to those seen between host RPeD1 and its targets. Taken together, our data demonstrate that the transplanted cells will innervate their potential targets only if the targets were denervated from the host cell. These data also lend support to the idea that, irrespective of their physical location in the brain, the displaced neurons are able to regenerate, recognize their targets, and establish specific synapses in the nervous system.
Over the past decade, evidence has accumulated indicating that, during development, the construction of synapses--the sites of communication between neurons--might rely on the utilization of preassembled sets of synaptic proteins, which have already accumulated in the axon and are highly mobile, before getting recruited to the sites of contact with the postsynaptic neuron. In this review, we discuss evidence from most recent publications pointing to the existence of active vesicle traffic and turnover in developing neurons, which lead to the construction of new synaptic sites.
Developmental cognitive neuroscience is an evolving field that investigates the relations between neural and cognitive development. Lying at the intersection of diverse disciplines, work in this area promises to shed light on classic developmental questions, mechanisms subserving developmental change, diagnosis and treatment of developmental disorders, and cognitive and neuroscientific topics traditionally considered outside the domain of development. Fundamental questions include: What are the interrelations between developmental changes in the brain (e.g. in connectivity, chemistry, morphology) and developmental changes in children's behavior and cognitive abilities (e.g. representational complexity, ability to sustain selective attention, speed of processing)? Why, and how, is learning enhanced during certain periods in development? How is our knowledge organized, and how does this change with development? We discuss preliminary investigations of such questions and directions for future work.
For a long time philosophers and psychologists have been intrigued by the question of the self. More recently, this has become a topic of discussion in neuroscience. In this article, we suggest that the processing of self-referential stimuli in cortical midline structures (CMS) is a fundamental component in generating a model of the self. Drawing from neuroimaging studies, we distinguish between representation, monitoring, evaluation and integration of self-referential stimuli. All of these subfunctions are related to distinct regions within the CMS. This relationship between self-referential processing and CMS might provide novel insight into the neural correlates underlying the constitution of the self.
Our understanding of the neural correlates of crossmodal binding in the human brain derives almost exclusively from studies of audition, vision and somatosensation. A new study by Gottfried and Dolan extends our understanding of multisensory integration by showing that facilitation of odor detection by visual cues depends on object congruency, as well as on enhanced activity in the superior temporal sulcus and a region of the orbitofrontal cortex that is adjacent to olfactory association cortex.
Interneurons are often classified according to neuropeptide content. However, it is becoming increasingly clear that neuropeptides are more than convenient neurochemical markers and can act as important modulators of neuronal activity. Recent advances in understanding neuropeptide release and physiological actions suggest that the interneuronal system of neuropeptides is crucial for maintaining appropriate brain function under normal and pathophysiological conditions. In particular, interneuronal neuropeptides appear to play roles in cognition and as endogenous anti-epileptic agents. This article describes current understanding of the conditions under which neuropeptides are released from interneurons, their specific effects on neuronal excitability and synaptic transmission, and the consequences of their loss of function.


Although the zebrafish has become an important model in visual neuroscience, little has been done to examine the processing of its higher visual centers. The purpose of this work was twofold. The first purpose was to examine the physiology of the zebrafish retinotectal system and its relationship to retinal physiology. Spectral sensitivity functions were derived from visually evoked tectal responses and these functions were compared to the functions of electroretinogram (ERG) responses obtained using the same stimulus conditions. The second purpose was to examine the recovery of visual functioning of the tectum following optic nerve damage. The optic nerves of adult zebrafish were damaged (crushed), and tectal visual processing was assessed following damage. The results showed that the spectral sensitivity functions based on the On-responses of the tectum and ERG were qualitatively similar. The functions based on each response type received similar cone contributions including both nonopponent and opponent contributions. However, the spectral sensitivity functions based on the Off-responses of the tectum and ERG differed. The results also showed that the zebrafish visual system is capable of neural regeneration. By 90 days following an optic nerve crush, the spectral sensitivity function based on the tectal On-response was similar to functions obtained from normal zebrafish. Although the tectal Off-response did recover, the spectral sensitivity based on the Off-response was not the same as the function of normal zebrafish. These results support the notion that different levels of the visual system process information differently and that the zebrafish visual system, like those of other lower vertebrates, is capable of functional regeneration.
We have measured the relationship between image contrast, perceived contrast, and BOLD fMRI activity in human early visual areas, for natural, whitened, pink noise, and white noise images. As root-mean-square contrast increases, BOLD response to natural images is stronger and saturates more rapidly than response to the whitened images. Perceived contrast and BOLD fMRI responses are higher for pink noise than for white noise patterns, by the same ratio as between natural and whitened images. Spatial phase structure has no measurable effect on perceived contrast or BOLD fMRI response. The fMRI and perceived contrast response results can be described by models of spatial frequency response in V1, that match the contrast sensitivity function at low contrasts, and have more uniform spatial frequency response at high contrasts.
We describe a model of invariant visual object recognition in the brain that incorporates feedback biasing effects of top-down attentional mechanisms on a hierarchically organized set of visual cortical areas with convergent forward connectivity, reciprocal feedback connections, and local intra-area competition. The model displays space-based and object-based covert visual search by using attentional top-down feedback from either the posterior parietal or the inferior temporal cortex (IT) modules, and interactions between the two processing streams occurring in V1 and V2. The model explains the gradually increasing magnitude of the attentional modulation that is found in fMRI experiments from earlier visual areas (V1, V2) to higher ventral stream visual areas (V4, IT); how the effective size of the receptive fields of IT neurons becomes smaller in natural cluttered scenes; and makes predictions about interactions between stimuli in their receptive fields.
Cognitive judgments about an object's location are distorted by the presence of a large frame offset left or right of an observer's midline. Sensorimotor responses, however, seem immune to this induced Roelofs illusion, with observers able to accurately point to the target's location. These findings have traditionally been used as evidence for a dissociation of the visual processing required for cognitive judgments and sensorimotor responses. However, a recent alternative hypothesis suggests that the behavioral dissociation is expected if the visual system uses a single frame of reference whose origin (the apparent midline) is biased toward the offset frame. The two theories make qualitatively distinct predictions in a paradigm in which observers are asked to indicate the direction symmetrically opposite the target's position. The collaborative findings of two laboratories clearly support the biased-midline hypothesis.
To define the role of statistical features of images in visual working memory, we compared the ability of subjects (N=6) to identify changes in arrays of black and white checks when these changes altered some aspect of their statistical structure, versus when these changes did not. Alteration of luminance statistics or local higher-order statistics improved performance, but alteration of the degree of bilateral symmetry did not. The dependence of performance on the degree of statistical change indicated that statistical information was represented in a graded, rather than categorical, fashion.
The principal cause of mortality in patients with acute liver failure (ALF) is brain herniation resulting from intracranial hypertension caused by a progressive increase of brain water. In the present study, ex vivo high-resolution 1H-NMR spectroscopy was used to investigate the effects of ALF, with or without superimposed hypothermia, on brain organic osmolyte concentrations in relation to the severity of encephalopathy and brain edema in rats with ALF due to hepatic devascularization. In normothermic ALF rats, glutamine concentrations in frontal cortex increased more than fourfold at precoma stages, i.e. prior to the onset of severe encephalopathy, but showed no further increase at coma stages. In parallel with glutamine accumulation, the brain organic osmolytes myo-inositol and taurine were significantly decreased in frontal cortex to 63% and 67% of control values, respectively, at precoma stages (p&lt;0.01), and to 58% and 67%, respectively, at coma stages of encephalopathy (p&lt;0.01). Hypothermia, which prevented brain edema and encephalopathy in ALF rats, significantly attenuated the depletion of myo-inositol and taurine. Brain glutamine concentrations, on the other hand, did not respond to hypothermia. These findings demonstrate that experimental ALF results in selective changes in brain organic osmolytes as a function of the degree of encephalopathy which are associated with brain edema, and provides a further rationale for the continued use of hypothermia in the management of this condition.

The stability of p53 tumor suppressor is regulated by Mdm2 via the ubiquitination and proteasome-mediated proteolysis pathway. The c-Abl and PTEN tumor suppressors are known to stabilize p53 by blocking the Mdm2-mediated p53 degradation. This study investigated the correlation between p53 and merlin, a neurofibromatosis 2 (NF2)-related tumor suppressor, in association with the Mdm2 function. The results showed that merlin increased the p53 stability by inhibiting the Mdm2-mediated degradation of p53, which accompanied the increase in the p53-dependent transcriptional activity. The stabilization of p53 by merlin appeared to be accomplished through Mdm2 degradation, and the N-terminal region of merlin was responsible for this novel activity. This study also showed that overexpression of merlin-induced apoptosis of cells depending preferentially on p53 in response to the serum starvation or a chemotherapeutic agent. These results suggest that merlin could be a positive regulator of p53 in terms of tumor suppressor activity, and provide the promising therapeutic means for treating tumors with non-functional merlin or Mdm2 overexpression.
Muscarinic M(3) receptors stimulate ERK1/2, the mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway. A mutant of the muscarinic M(3) receptor in which most of the third intracellular (i3) loop had been deleted (M(3)-short) completely lost the ability to stimulate the ERK1/2 phosphorylation in COS-7 cells. This loss was evident despite the fact that the receptor was able to couple efficiently to the phospholipase C second messenger pathway. In co-transfected cells, M(3)-short greatly reduced the ability of M(3) to activate ERK1/2. In another set of experiments we tested the ability of a mutant M(3)/M(2)(16aa) receptor, in which the first 16 amino acids of the i3 loop of the M(3) receptor were replaced with the corresponding segment of the muscarinic M(2) receptor to stimulate ERK1/2 phosphorylation. This mutant is not coupled to Galpha(q), but it is weakly coupled to Galpha(i). Despite its coupling modification this receptor was able to stimulate ERK1/2 phosphorylation. Again, M(3)-short greatly reduced the ability of M(3)/M(2)(16aa) to activate ERK1/2 in co-transfected cells. Similar results were obtained in stable-transfected Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells lines. In CHO M(3) cells carbachol induced a biphasic increase of ERK1/2 phosphorylation; a first increase at doses as low as 0.1 microm and a second increase starting from 10 microm. In CHO M(3)-short and in double-transfected CHO M(3)/M(3)-short cells we observed only the lower doses increase of ERK1/2 phosphorylation; no further increase was observed up to 1 mm carbachol. This suggests that in double-transfected CHO cells M(3)-short prevents the effect of the higher doses of carbachol on the M(3) receptor. In a final experiment we tested the ability of co-transfected chimeric alpha(2)/M(3) and M(3)/alpha(2) receptors to activate the ERK1/2 pathway. When given alone, carbachol and, to a lesser extent, clonidine, stimulated the coupling of the co-transfected chimeric receptors to the phospholipase C second messenger pathway, but they were unable to stimulate ERK1/2 phosphorylation. On the contrary, a strong stimulation of ERK1/2 phosphorylation was observed when the two agonists were given together despite the fact that the overall increase in phosphatidylinositol hydrolysis was not dissimilar from that observed in cells treated with carbachol alone. Our data suggest that the activation of the ERK1/2 pathway requires the coincident activation of the two components of a receptor dimer.
Cytochrome c oxidase contains two redox-active copper centers (Cu(A) and Cu(B)) and two redox-active heme A moieties. Assembly of the enzyme relies on several assembly factors in addition to the constituent subunits and prosthetic groups. We studied fibroblast cultures from patients carrying mutations in the assembly factors COX10, SCO1, or SURF1. COX10 is involved in heme A biosynthesis. SCO1 is required for formation of the Cu(A) center. The function of SURF1 is unknown. Immunoblot analysis of native gels demonstrated severely decreased levels of holoenzyme in the patient cultures compared with controls. In addition, the blots revealed the presence of five subassemblies: three subassemblies involving the core subunit MTCO1 but apparently no other subunits; a subassembly containing subunits MTCO1, COX4, and COX5A; and a subassembly containing at least subunits MTCO1, MTCO2, MTCO3, COX4, and COX5A. As some of the subassemblies correspond to known assembly intermediates of human cytochrome c oxidase, we think that these subassemblies are probably assembly intermediates that accumulate in patient cells. The MTCO1.COX4.COX5A subassembly was not detected in COX10-deficient cells, which suggests that heme A incorporation into MTCO1 occurs prior to association of MTCO1 with COX4 and COX5A. SCO1-deficient cells contained accumulated levels of the MTCO1.COX4.COX5A subassembly, suggesting that MTCO2 associates with the MTCO1.COX4.COX5A subassembly after the Cu(A) center of MTCO2 is formed. Assembly in SURF1-deficient cells appears to stall at the same stage as in SCO1-deficient cells, pointing to a role for SURF1 in promoting the association of MTCO2 with the MTCO1.COX4.COX5A subassembly.
Sympathetically-mediated vasoconstriction of cutaneous vessels is critical for thermoregulation in the cold. We determined whether cold-induced sympathetic discharge depends on activity of neurons in the rostral medullary raph. In urethane-anesthetized rats and rabbits, cooling the trunk skin by a water jacket reproducibly increased cutaneous sympathetic discharge recorded in the tail (rats) and the ear pinna (rabbits). When neurons in the rostral medullary raph were inhibited by microinjection of glycine (30-100 nmol in 60-200 nl in rats), or muscimol (1 nmol in 100 nl in rabbits), cutaneous sympathetic activity was silenced and no longer responded to cooling (7+/-3 and 5+/-2% of pre-injection increase in rats and rabbits, respectively, P &lt; 0.01). Our data demonstrate that activity of rostral medullary raph neurons is important for the CNS mediation of cold-induced increases in sympathetic cutaneous vasomotor nerves.
The effects of alpha-sialylcholesterol (alpha-SC), a synthetic ganglioside analogue, on synaptic neurotransmission were studied using in vivo microdialysis technique. Application of alpha-SC through a microdialysis probe enhanced high potassium-evoked release of acetylcholine and glutamate in the hippocampal CA3 region of Wistar rats. The experiments using synaptosomes and FM1-43, a fluorescent styryl dye used for studies of neurotransmitter release mechanisms, showed that alpha-SC increased depolarization-induced loss of dye but it did not evoke the dye loss at resting condition. These results indicate that alpha-SC promotes a depolarization-induced exocytotic neurotransmitter release in the brain under in vivo conditions. Application of alpha-SC increased the level of glutamate but not that of acetylcholine, suggesting that alpha-SC affects spontaneous glutamate release and/or transport system at the brain region.
Accumulating evidence suggests that apoptotic and inflammatory factors contribute to the demise of dopaminergic neurons. In this respect, Fas, a member of the tumor necrosis factor receptor family with proapoptotic and inflammatory functions, was reported to be elevated within the striatum and substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) of Parkinson's disease (PD) patients. Accordingly, the present investigation evaluated the function of Fas in the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) model of PD. Injection of MPTP increased nigral Fas expression, and mice lacking Fas displayed attenuated MPTP-induced SNc dopaminergic loss and microglial activation. In addition, Fas induction was blocked by expression of a dominant-negative c-Jun adenovirus that also protected dopamine neurons from MPTP-induced damage. Together, these data suggest the critical nature of the c-Jun-Fas signaling pathway in MPTP-induced neuronal loss. Although critical for degeneration of the soma, Fas deficiency did not significantly prevent the reduction of dopaminergic terminal fibers within the striatum or normalize the activation of striatal microglia and elevation of the postsynaptic activity marker DeltaFosB induced by denervation. Interestingly, Fas-deficient mice displayed a pre-existing reduction in striatal dopamine levels and locomotor behavior when compared with wild-type mice. Despite the reduced terminals, dopamine levels were not further suppressed by MPTP treatment in mutant mice, raising the possibility of a compensatory response in basal ganglia function in Fas-deficient mice.
Nitric oxide (NO)-releasing interneurons are believed to regulate the activity of striatal medium spiny neurons (MSNs) that contain the NO effector enzyme guanylyl cyclase (GC). The involvement of NO-GC signaling in modulating steady-state membrane activity of striatal MSNs was examined using in vivo intracellular recordings in rats. Intrastriatal infusion of a neuronal NO synthase inhibitor or a NO scavenger via reverse microdialysis consistently decreased the amplitude of spontaneously occurring depolarized plateau potentials (up events). Intrastriatal infusion of a NO scavenger also decreased the amplitude of EPSPs evoked during electrical stimulation of the orbital prefrontal cortex. The effect of the NO scavenger on spontaneous up events was partially reversed by coperfusion with a cell-permeable cGMP analog. Intracellular injection of MSNs with a soluble GC inhibitor resulted in large decreases in the following: (1) spontaneous up-event amplitude, (2) responsiveness to depolarizing current, (3) action potential amplitude, and (4) input resistance. These effects were partially reversed by coinjection of cGMP. Conversely, intracellular injection of a phosphodiesterase inhibitor increased MSN neuron membrane excitability. These results indicate that, in the intact animal, the NO signaling pathway exerts a powerful tonic modulatory influence over the membrane activity of striatal MSNs via the activation of GC and stimulation of cGMP production.
To guide behavior, perceptual and motor systems must estimate properties of the sensory environment from the responses of populations of cortical neurons. In the domain of visual motion, estimates of target speed are derived from the responses of motion-sensitive neurons in the middle temporal (MT) area of the extrastriate visual cortex and are used to drive smooth pursuit eye movements and perceptual judgments of speed. We have asked how these behavioral systems estimate target speed from the population response in area MT. We found that increasing the spatial frequency of a sine wave grating caused decreases in the target speed estimated by both pursuit and perception and commensurate changes in the identity of the active neurons in area MT. Decreasing the contrast of a sine wave grating caused decreases in the target speed estimated by both pursuit and perception, while altering only the response amplitude of MT neurons and not the identity of the active neurons. Applying a modified vector-averaging computation to the population response measured in area MT allowed us to predict the effects of both spatial frequency and contrast on speed estimation for both perception and pursuit. The modification biased the speed estimation toward low target speeds when responses across the population of neurons were small.
Mice that lack all three major isoforms of neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) (180 and 140 kDa transmembrane, and 120 kDa glycosylphosphatidylinositol linked) were previously shown to exhibit major alterations in the maturation of their neuromuscular junctions (NMJs). Specifically, even by postnatal day 30, they failed to downregulate from along their axons and terminals an immature, brefeldin A-sensitive, synaptic vesicle-cycling mechanism that used L-type Ca2+ channels. In addition, these NCAM null NMJs were unable to maintain effective transmitter output with high-frequency repetitive stimulation, exhibiting both severe initial depression and subsequent cyclical periods of total transmission failures that were of presynaptic origin. As reported here, mice that lack only the 180 kDa isoform of NCAM downregulated the immature vesicle-cycling mechanism on schedule, implicating either the 140 or 120 kDa NCAM isoforms in this important maturational event. However, 180 NCAM-deficient mice still exhibited many functional transmission defects. Although 180 NCAM null NMJs did not show the severe initial depression of NCAM null NMJs, they still had cyclical periods of complete transmission failure. In addition, several presynaptic molecules were expressed at lower levels or were more diffusely localized. Thus, the 180 kDa isoform of NCAM appears to play an important role in the molecular organization of the presynaptic terminal and in ensuring effective transmitter output with repetitive stimulation. Our results also suggest that PKC and MLCK (myosin light chain kinase) may be downstream effectors of NCAM in these processes. Together, these results indicate that different isoforms of NCAM mediate distinct and important events in presynaptic maturation.
Melatonin is synthesized in retinal photoreceptor cells and acts as a neuromodulator imparting photoperiodic information to the retina. The synthesis of melatonin is controlled by an ocular circadian clock and by light in a finely tuned mechanism that ensures that melatonin is synthesized and acts only at night in darkness. Here we report that the circadian clock gates melatonin synthesis in part by regulating the expression of the type 1 adenylyl cyclase (AC1) and the synthesis of cAMP in photoreceptor cells. This gating is effected through E-box-mediated transcriptional activation of the AC1 gene, which undergoes robust daily fluctuations that persist in constant illumination. The circadian control of the cAMP signaling cascade indicates that the clock has a more general and profound impact on retinal functions than previously thought. In addition, rhythmic control of AC1 expression was observed in other parts of the central circadian axis, the suprachiasmatic nucleus and pineal gland, but not in other brain areas examined. Thus, clock control of the cAMP signaling cascade may play a central role in the integration of circadian signals that control physiology and behavior.

Recent studies indicate that beta-amyloid (Abeta) is the key factor to cause neuronal degeneration in Alzheimer's disease (AD). In the present study, we set up an Abeta induced PC12 cell damage modle and studied the protective effect and related mechanisms of T(10), monomer extracted from Chinese herb Tripterygium wilfordii Hook F. PC12 cells were treated with different concentrations of Abeta (5x10(-4), 5x10(-3), 5x10(-2), 5x10(-1), 5, 50 micromol/L) for 48 h, cell viability was detected by MTT conversion. The apoptotic rate of PC12 cells was quantitatively determined using FACS assay. After PC12 cells were treated with 1x10(-11) mol/L T(10) for 48 h and then co-treated with 50 micromol/LAbetafor 48 h, the apoptotic rate and the change in intracellular Ca(2+) concentration of PC12 cells were analyzed by FACS assay and confocal, respectively. It was found that 5 micromol/L Abeta decreased the cell viability to 66.3% and 50 micromol/L Abeta decreased it to 55.1%, significantly different from that of the control group. After treatment with 50 micromol/L Abeta for 48 h, the apoptotic rate of PC12 cells increased obviously. The apoptotic rate was 5.37% in the control group, while after treatment with 0.5, 5 and 50 micromol/L Abeta for 48 h, the apoptotic rate of PC12 cells went up to 10.19%, 8.02% and 16.63%, respectively. At the same time, the concentration of intracellular Ca(2+) increased greatly after treatment with 50 micromol/L Abeta for 48 h. At the concentration of 1x10(-11) mol/L T(10) remarkably inhibited the apoptosis induced by 50 micromol/L Abeta. In the naive group, the apoptotic rate was 4.83%. The apoptotic rate went up to 17.24% after treatment with 50 micromol/L Abeta for 48 h. After co-treatment with 1x10(-11) mol/L T(10) and 50 micromol/L Abeta, the apoptotic rate decreased to 8.91%, significantly different from that of the control group. At the same time, at the concentration of 1x10(-11 )mol/L T(10) remarkably inhibited the increase of intracellular Ca(2+) concentration induced by Abeta. The results indicate that T(10) has obvious protective effect on PC12 cells, which may be related to the inhibition of the cell apoptosis and increment of intracellular Ca(2+) concentration induced by Abeta.
Primary orthostatic tremor is characterized by 16-Hz motor activity that is coherent between muscles. It has been suggested that this tremor originates in the brain. This view is questioned by findings from a patient with complete paraplegia who experiences intermittent leg spasms at rest. The EMG activity within the spasms showed a 16-Hz component that was coherent between muscles unilaterally and bilaterally. This raises the possibility that the spinal cord could be the source of orthostatic tremor.
The authors identified eight patients with Ullrich disease in whom collagen VI was present in the interstitium but was absent from the sarcolemma. By electron microscopy, collagen VI in the interstitium was never linked to the basal lamina. These findings suggest that in these patients it is not the total absence of collagen VI from the muscle but the failure of collagen VI to anchor the basal lamina to the interstitium that is the cause of Ullrich disease. Only one of the patients had a mutation in the collagen VI gene, suggesting that the primary abnormality in most of the patients involved some other molecules.

Carbon monoxide (CO) synthesized by heme oxygenase 2 (HO2) and nitric oxide (NO) produced by neuronal NO synthase (nNOS) mediate nonadrenergic/noncholinergic (NANC) intestinal relaxation. In many areas of the gastrointestinal tract, NO and CO function as coneurotransmitters. In the internal anal sphincter (IAS), NANC relaxation is mediated primarily by CO. Vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) has also been shown to participate in NANC relaxation throughout the intestine, including the IAS. By using a combination of pharmacology and genetic knockout of the biosynthetic enzymes for CO and NO, we show that the physiologic effects of exogenous and endogenous VIP in the IAS are mediated by HO2-synthesized CO.
Neural information processed through the striatum of the basal ganglia is crucial for sensorimotor and psychomotor functions. Genes that are highly expressed in the striatum during development may be involved in neural development and plasticity in the striatum. We report in the present study the identification of a previously uncharacterized mammalian member of the nocA/elB/tlp-1 family, Nolz-1, that is preferentially expressed at high levels in the developing striatum. Nolz-1 mRNA was expressed as soon as striatal anlage began to form at embryonic day 13 in the rat. Nolz-1 mRNA was predominantly expressed in the lateral ganglionic eminence (striatal primordium) and was nearly absent in the adjacent structures of the medial ganglionic eminence and the cerebral cortex. Moreover, Nolz-1 was highly expressed in the subventricular zone of the lateral ganglionic eminence and was colocalized with the early neuronal differentiation markers of TuJ1 and Isl1 and the projection neuron marker of DARPP-32, suggesting that Nolz-1 was expressed in differentiating progenitors of striatal projection neurons. A time course study showed that Nolz-1 mRNA was developmentally regulated, as its expression was down-regulated postnatally with low levels remaining in the ventral striatum at adulthood. As the tagged Nolz-1 protein was localized in the nucleus, Nolz-1 may function as transcriptional regulator. In a model system for neural differentiation, Nolz-1 mRNA was dramatically induced on neural induction of P19 embryonal carcinoma cells by retinoic acid, suggesting that Nolz-1 activation may be involved in neural differentiation. Our study suggests that Nolz-1 is preferentially expressed in differentiating striatal progenitors and may be engaged in the genetic program for controlling striatal development.
Proteins of the ezrin-radixin-moesin family are ubiquitous constituents of the submembrane cortex, especially in epithelial cells. Earlier biochemical results suggested that a protein of this family occurs in the hair bundle, the cluster of actin-filled stereocilia that serves as the mechanoreceptive organelle of each hair cell in the inner ear. We prepared antipeptide antisera directed against chicken radixin and ezrin and demonstrated their specificity and absence of crossreactivity. When used in immunocytochemical studies of isolated hair cells, anti-radixin produced an intense band of labeling at the bases of hair bundles from the chicken, frog, mouse, and zebrafish. Electron microscopic immunocytochemistry disclosed that radixin labeling commenced in the stereociliary taper, peaked in the lower stereociliary shaft, and declined progressively toward the hair bundle's top. Labeling with anti-ezrin produced no signal in hair bundles. Radixin is thus a prominent constituent of stereocilia, where it may participate in anchoring the &quot;pointed&quot; ends of actin filaments to the membrane.
To identify genes important for hair-cell function, we conducted a mutagenic screen in zebrafish. Larvae from one mutant line, ru848, were unresponsive to acoustic stimuli and unable to balance. The mutation results in a 90% reduction in hair-cell number and partial retinal degeneration by 5 days postfertilization. We localized the recessive ru848 mutation by positional cloning to the zebrafish homolog of the human Choroideremia gene, which encodes Rab escort protein 1. This protein is essential for the normal prenylation of Rabs. Mutations in the human gene induce choroideremia, a disease marked by slow-onset degeneration of rod photoreceptors and retinal pigment epithelial cells. The degenerative phenotype resulting from a null mutation in the zebrafish gene indicates that hair cells and retinal cells require Rab escort protein 1 for survival.
Synaptotagmin 1 (Syt 1) functions as an essential Ca2+ sensor for the fast but not slow component of Ca2+-triggered exocytosis. One hypothesis to account for this selective function, based on the close homology of Syt 1 with synaptotagmin 9 (Syt 9), is that these Syts are redundant for the slow but not the fast component of release. We now show, however, that Syt 9 has unique properties that set it apart from Syt 1. Different from Syt 1, endogenous Syt 9 does not associate Ca2+ dependently or independently with soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptors (SNARE) protein complexes, and the Syt 9 C2B domain does not form Ca2+/phospholipid complexes, whereas such complexes are essential for Syt 1 function. Nevertheless, the C2A domain of Syt 9 functions as a Ca2+-binding module, suggesting that Syts 1 and 9 are Ca2+ sensors with similar Ca2+-binding sequences but distinct properties that indicate nonoverlapping functions.
Amyloid-beta precursor protein (APP), a type I membrane protein, is physiologically processed by alpha- or beta-secretases that cleave APP N-terminal to the transmembrane region. Extracellular alpha-/beta-cleavage of APP generates a large secreted N-terminal fragment, and a smaller cellular C-terminal fragment. Subsequent gamma-secretase cleavage in the transmembrane region of the C-terminal fragment induces secretion of small extracellular peptides, including Abeta40 and Abeta42, which are instrumental in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease, and intracellular release of a cytoplasmic tail fragment. Although APP resembles a cell-surface receptor, no functionally active extracellular ligand for APP that might regulate its proteolytic processing has been described. We now show that F-spondin, a secreted signaling molecule implicated in neuronal development and repair, binds to the conserved central extracellular domain of APP and inhibits beta-secretase cleavage of APP. Our data indicate that F-spondin may be an endogenous regulator of APP cleavage, and suggest that the extracellular domains of APP are potential drug targets for interfering with beta-secretase cleavage.
RACK1 is not a G protein but closely resembles the heterotrimeric Gbeta-subunit. RACK1 serves as a scaffold, linking protein kinase C to its substrates. We demonstrate that RACK1 physiologically binds inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptors and regulates Ca2+ release by enhancing inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor binding affinity for inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate. Overexpression of RACK1 or depletion of RACK1 by interference RNA markedly augments or diminishes Ca2+ release, respectively, without affecting Ca2+ entry. These findings establish RACK1 as a physiologic mediator of agonist-induced Ca2+ release.
It has been considered that Ca2+ release is the causal trigger for Ca2+ entry after receptor activation. In DT40 B cells devoid of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptors (IP3R), the lack of Ca2+ entry in response to receptor activation is attributed to the absence of Ca2+ release. We reveal in this article that IP3R recognition of IP3 determines agonist-induced Ca2+ entry (ACE), independent of its Ca2+ release activity. In DT40 IP3R(-/-) cells, endogenous ACE can be rescued with type 1 IP3R mutants (both a DeltaC-terminal truncation mutant and a D2550A pore mutant), which are defective in Ca2+ release channel activity. Thus, in response to B cell receptor activation, ACE is restored in an IP3R-dependent manner without Ca2+ store release. Conversely, ACE cannot be rescued with mutant IP3Rs lacking IP3 binding (both the Delta90-110 and R265Q IP3-binding site mutants). We conclude that an IP3-dependent conformational change in the IP3R, not endoplasmic reticulum Ca2+ pool release, triggers ACE.
In this study we examined the proliferative response of olfactory ensheathing cells (OECs) to olfactory receptor neuron injury induced by zinc sulfate (ZnSO4) irrigation and related the response of OECs within the peripheral system to the inflammatory response induced by injury and the expression profile of neuregulins. After ZnSO4 treatment, degeneration in the epithelium is reproducible and rapid, with regeneration following after 4 days, and is morphologically complete by 5 weeks. Changes in the olfactory bulb are less dramatic, although degeneration of both the outer and the glomerular layers occurred. Treatment also induced a marked inflammatory response in both the epithelium and the bulb. Unlike Schwann cell changes associated with Wallerian degeneration, OECs did not proliferate or obviously migrate within the olfactory system in response to axonal loss, suggesting that the new nerves generated from the epithelium regrow back through conduits already formed by the glia. Expression of neuregulin 1alpha was maintained in the nerve by OECs, and changes in neuregulin 1 mRNA and erbB2 mRNA expression were detected, indicating that these growth factors may play a role in the regeneration of the peripheral olfactory system but not in OEC proliferation.
Dopamine and cyclic adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate-regulated phosphoprotein, 32 kDa (DARPP-32) is a key element of dopamine/D1/DARPP-32/protein phosphatase-1 (PP-1) signaling cascades of mammalian brain. We are interested in the expression patterns of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate (AMPA) receptors in DARPP-32-containing neurons, which may constitute morphological basis for interaction between dopamine and ionotropic glutamate receptors in dopaminoceptive cells. Double immunofluorescence was performed to visualize neurons showing coexpression of DARPP-32 with NMDA or AMPA receptor subunits (i.e., NR1, NR2a/b, glutamate receptor subunit 1 [GluR1], GluR2/3, and GluR4) in the forebrains of rats. Distribution of DARPP-32-positive neurons completely or partially overlapped with that of NMDA receptor- or AMPA receptor-immunoreactive ones in the frontal and parietal cortex, hippocampus and neostriatum, and neurons double-labeled with DARPP-32/NR1, DARPP-32/NR2a/b, DARPP-32/GluR1, DARPP-32/GluR2/3, or DARPP-32/GluR4 immunoreactivity were numerously observed. Semiquantification analysis indicated that most of DARPP-32-containing neurons (86-98%) expressed NR1, NR2a/b and GluR2/3, while less of them (14-90%) expressed GluR1 and GluR4. Although high rates (90-98%) of DARPP-32-positive cells expressed NMDA receptors in all regions above, variant percentages of them expressing AMPA receptor subunits were observed among the cortex (54-90%), hippocampus (59-97%) and neostriatum (14-97%). The study presents differential expression patterns of NMDA and AMPA receptors in DARPP-32-postive neurons in these forebrain regions. Taken together with previous reports, the present data suggest that interaction between dopamine and glutamate receptors may occur in the dopaminoceptive neurons with distinct receptor compositions and may be involved in modulating neuronal properties and excitotoxicity in mammalian forebrain.
The posttranscriptional mechanisms that control the cycling of circadian clock protein levels are not known. Here we demonstrate a role for protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) in the cyclic expression of the PER protein. PP2A regulatory subunits TWS and WDB target PER and stabilize it in S2 cells. In adult fly heads, expression of tws cycles robustly under control of the circadian clock. Hypomorphic tws mutants show delayed accumulation of PER, while overexpression of tws in clock neurons produces shorter, weaker rhythms. Reduction of PP2A activity reduces PER expression in central clock neurons and results in long periods and arrhythmia. In addition, overexpression of the PP2A catalytic subunit results in loss of behavioral rhythms and constitutive nuclear expression of PER. PP2A also affects PER phosphorylation in vitro and in vivo. We propose that the posttranslational mechanisms that drive cycling of PER require the rhythmic expression of PP2A.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a neurodegenerative disease caused by a CAG repeat expansion in exon 1 of the HD gene, and the expression level of either normal or mutant huntingtin is implicated in the pathogenesis of HD. However, a molecular base of the HD gene transcription has not been elucidated as yet. In this study, we identified two proteins, HDBP1 and HDBP2, which bind to the promoter region for the HD gene using a yeast one-hybrid system. Amino acid sequence analysis of the proteins deduced the presence of nuclear localization signal, nuclear export signal, zinc finger, serine/proline-rich region, and highly conserved C-terminal region. In vitro DNA binding assay indicated that the C-terminal conserved regions of the proteins were responsible for binding to the unique promoter DNA sequences of the HD gene. The DNA sequence protected from DNase I digestion was a 7-bp consensus sequence (GCCGGCG), which resides in triplicate at intervals of 13 bp within and proximal to the 20-bp direct repeat sequences of the HD promoter region. The mutation of 7-bp consensus sequence abolishes the HD promoter function in a neuronal cell line (IMR32). In human cultured cells, ectopically expressed green fluorescent protein-fused HDBP1 and HDBP2 localized in the cytoplasm, but both proteins totally shift from cytoplasm to nucleus by the treatment with an inhibitor of the nuclear export, leptomycin B, and mutagenesis of the putative nuclear export signals. Taken together, HDBP1 and HDBP2 are novel transcription factors shuttling between nucleus and cytoplasm and bind to the specific GCCGGCG, which is an essential cis-element for HD gene expression in neuronal cells.
Nitric oxide is involved in a countless number of physiological processes and is known to have cytoprotective as well as cytotoxic effects. Increased knowledge about the multifaceted role of nitric oxide in a variety of disease states has led to the design of multiple treatment strategies involving the nitric oxide system. The current review focuses on recent research advances in the fields of obstetrics, bone disease and erectile dysfunction that have led to current or potential future therapies involving nitric oxide.
Cyclic nucleotides regulate axonal responses to a number of guidance cues through unknown molecular events. We report here that Drosophila nervy, a member of the myeloid translocation gene family of A kinase anchoring proteins (AKAPs), regulates repulsive axon guidance by linking the cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP)-dependent protein kinase (PKA) to the Semaphorin 1a (Sema-1a) receptor Plexin A (PlexA). Nervy and PKA antagonize Sema-1a-PlexA-mediated repulsion, and the AKAP binding region of Nervy is critical for this effect. Thus, Nervy couples cAMP-PKA signaling to PlexA to regulate Sema-1a-mediated axonal repulsion, revealing a simple molecular mechanism that allows growing axons to integrate inputs from multiple guidance cues.
Our ability to have an experience of another's pain is characteristic of empathy. Using functional imaging, we assessed brain activity while volunteers experienced a painful stimulus and compared it to that elicited when they observed a signal indicating that their loved one--present in the same room--was receiving a similar pain stimulus. Bilateral anterior insula (AI), rostral anterior cingulate cortex (ACC), brainstem, and cerebellum were activated when subjects received pain and also by a signal that a loved one experienced pain. AI and ACC activation correlated with individual empathy scores. Activity in the posterior insula/secondary somatosensory cortex, the sensorimotor cortex (SI/MI), and the caudal ACC was specific to receiving pain. Thus, a neural response in AI and rostral ACC, activated in common for &quot;self&quot; and &quot;other&quot; conditions, suggests that the neural substrate for empathic experience does not involve the entire &quot;pain matrix.&quot; We conclude that only that part of the pain network associated with its affective qualities, but not its sensory qualities, mediates empathy.




Recent findings have shown that certain attributes of visual stimuli, like orientation, are registered in cortical areas when the stimulus is unresolvable or perceptually invisible; however, there is no evidence to show that complex forms of orientation processing (e.g., modulatory effects of orientation on the processing of other features) could occur in the absence of awareness. To address these questions, different psychophysical paradigms were designed in six experiments to probe unconscious orientation processing. First we demonstrated orientation-selective adaptation and color-contingent orientation adaptation for peripheral unresolvable Gabor patches. The next experiments showed the modulatory effects of perceptually indiscriminable orientations on apparent motion processing and attentional mechanisms. Finally we investigated disappearance patterns of unresolvable Gabor stimuli during motion-induced blindness (MIB). Abrupt changes in local unresolvable orientations truncated MIB; however, orientation-based grouping failed to affect the MIB pattern when the orientations were unresolvable. Overall results revealed that unresolvable orientations substantially influence perception at multiple levels.
We examined whether neural responses associated with judgments of socially relevant aspects of the human face extend to stimuli that acquire their significance through learning in a meaningful interactive context, specifically reciprocal cooperation. During fMRI, subjects made gender judgments on faces of people who had been introduced as fair (cooperators) or unfair (defector) players through repeated play of a sequential Prisoner's Dilemma game. To manipulate moral responsibility, players were introduced as either intentional or nonintentional agents. Our behavioral (likebility ratings and memory performance) as well as our imaging data confirm the saliency of social fairness for human interactions. Relative to neutral faces, faces of intentional cooperators engendered increased activity in left amygdala, bilateral insula, fusiform gyrus, STS, and reward-related areas. Our data indicate that rapid learning regarding the moral status of others is expressed in altered neural activity within a system associated with social cognition.
SNAP-25 is a component of the SNARE complex implicated in synaptic vesicle exocytosis. In this study, we demonstrate that hippocampal GABAergic synapses, both in culture and in brain, lack SNAP-25 and are resistant to the action of botulinum toxins type A and E, which cleave this SNARE protein. Relative to glutamatergic neurons, which express SNAP-25, GABAergic cells were characterized by a higher calcium responsiveness to depolarization. Exogenous expression of SNAP-25 in GABAergic interneurons lowered calcium responsiveness, and SNAP-25 silencing in glutamatergic neurons increased calcium elevations evoked by depolarization. Expression of SNAP-25(1-197) but not of SNAP-25(1-180) inhibited calcium responsiveness, pointing to the involvement of the 180-197 residues in the observed function. These data indicate that SNAP-25 is crucial for the regulation of intracellular calcium dynamics and, possibly, of network excitability. SNAP-25 is therefore a multifunctional protein that participates in exocytotic function both at the mechanistic and at the regulatory level.
The family of calcium binding proteins called KChIPs associates with Kv4 family K(+) channels and modulates their biophysical properties. Here, using mutagenesis and X-ray crystallography, we explore the interaction between Kv4 subunits and KChIP1. Two regions in the Kv4.2 N terminus, residues 7-11 and 71-90, are necessary for KChIP1 modulation and interaction with Kv4.2. When inserted into the Kv1.2 N terminus, residues 71-90 of Kv4.2 are also sufficient to confer association with KChIP1. To provide a structural framework for these data, we solved the crystal structures of Kv4.3N and KChIP1 individually. Taken together with the mutagenesis data, the individual structures suggest that that the Kv4 N terminus is required for stable association with KChIP1, perhaps through a hydrophobic surface interaction, and that residues 71-90 in Kv4 subunits form a contact loop that mediates the specific association of KChIPs with Kv4 subunits.
Four Kv channel-interacting proteins (KChIP1 through KChIP4) interact directly with the N-terminal domain of three Shal-type voltage-gated potassium channels (Kv4.1, Kv4.2, and Kv4.3) to modulate cell surface expression and function of Kv4 channels. Here we report a 2.0 Angstrom crystal structure of the core domain of KChIP1 (KChIP1*) in complex with the N-terminal fragment of Kv4.2 (Kv4.2N30). The complex reveals a clam-shaped dimeric assembly. Four EF-hands from each KChIP1 form each shell of the clam. The N-terminal end of Kv4.2 forming an alpha helix (alpha1) and the C-terminal alpha helix (H10) of KChIP1 are enclosed nearly coaxially by these shells. As a result, the H10 of KChIP1 and alpha1 of Kv4.2 mediate interactions between these two molecules, structurally reminiscent of the interactions between calmodulin and its target peptides. Site-specific mutagenesis combined with functional characterization shows that those interactions mediated by alpha1 and H10 are essential to the modulation of Kv4.2 by KChIPs.
Certain neurons in the mammalian brain have long been known to be joined by gap junctions, which are the most common type of electrical synapse. More recently, cloning of neuron-specific connexins, increased capability of visualizing cells within brain tissue, labeling of cell types by transgenic methods, and generation of connexin knockouts have spurred a rapid increase in our knowledge of the role of gap junctions in neural activity. This article reviews the many subtleties of transmission mediated by gap junctions and the mechanisms whereby these junctions contribute to synchronous firing.
This study shows that two cAMP elevating agents, dibutyryl-cAMP (dbcAMP) and forskolin, regulate the expression of several cytokines and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) in a different manner. Both dbcAMP and forskolin repressed lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced TNF-alpha expression and enhanced anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10 level in the BV2 microglia. In contrast, they differentially regulated the iNOS, IL-6 and IL-1beta expression levels. DbcAMP increased the IL-1beta level without affecting either the IL-6 or iNOS expression, whereas forskolin repressed the IL-6 and iNOS expression level without affecting IL-1beta in the LPS-stimulated microglia. Treatment with H89, a specific inhibitor of protein kinase A (PKA), revealed that an enhancement in the IL-10 and IL-1beta levels by dbcAMP or forskolin totally depends on the PKA pathway, while changes in the other cytokines and iNOS are independent or only partially dependent on the PKA pathway. These results suggest the diverse regulation of the inflammatory reactions depending on different cAMP elevating agents.
Highly eusocial insect workers exhibit age-related division of labor. Adults begin working inside the nest, moving to the nest periphery and later to foraging. Passage through this task sequence is associated with neuroanatomical changes in the mushroom bodies (MB) of honey bee (Apis) and ant (Camponotus) workers. We asked whether eusocial wasp workers (Polybia aequatorialis) exhibit similar changes in adult neuroanatomy. Wasps were identified as working in-nest, on-nest, or foraging. The volumes of the somata of workers' MB intrinsic neurons (Kenyon cells), and of the neuropils containing the Kenyon cell dendritic arbors (calyces), were estimated using stereological methods. In-nest workers had significantly smaller calyx to Kenyon cell volume ratios than on-nest and foraging workers. Age-related task specializations in Polybia workers are associated with major neuroanatomical reorganization in the mushroom bodies.
Inhibition of primary afferent neurons contributes to the antihyperalgesic effects of opioid and CB1 receptor agonists. Two bioassays were used to compare the effects of the CB1 receptor agonist CP 55,940 and morphine on dissociated adult rat DRG neurons. Both agonists inhibited the increase in free intracellular Ca2+ concentration evoked by depolarization; however, effects of CP 55,940 occurred primarily in large neurons (cell area, &gt;800 microm2), whereas morphine inhibited the response in smaller neurons. Cotreatment with selective blockers of L-, N-, and P/Q-type voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels indicated that CB1 receptors on DRG neurons couple solely with N-type channels but opioid receptors couple with multiple subtypes. Experiments with selective agonists and antagonists of opioid receptors indicated that mu and delta, but not kappa, receptors contributed to the inhibitory effect of morphine on voltage-dependent Ca2+ influx. Because Ca2+ channels underlie release of transmitters from neurons, the effects of opioid agonists and CP 55,940 on depolarization-evoked release of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) were compared. Morphine inhibited release through delta receptors but CP 55,940 had no effect. Colocalization of CGRP with delta-opioid but not mu-opioid or CB1 receptor immunoreactivity in superficial laminae of the dorsal horn of the spinal cord was consistent with the data for agonist inhibition of peptide release. Therefore, CB1 and opioid agonists couple with different voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels in different populations of DRG neurons. Furthermore, differences occur in the distribution of receptors between the cell body and terminals of DRG neurons. The complementary action of CB1 and opioid receptor agonists on populations of DRG neurons provides a rationale for their combined use in modulation of somatosensory input to the spinal cord.
Activity changes in a large subset of midbrain dopamine neurons fulfill numerous assumptions of learning theory by encoding a prediction error between actual and predicted reward. This computational interpretation of dopaminergic spike activity invites the important question of how changes in spike rate are translated into changes in dopamine delivery at target neural structures. Using electrochemical detection of rapid dopamine release in the striatum of freely moving rats, we established that a single dynamic model can capture all the measured fluctuations in dopamine delivery. This model revealed three independent short-term adaptive processes acting to control dopamine release. These short-term components generalized well across animals and stimulation patterns and were preserved under anesthesia. The model has implications for the dynamic filtering interposed between changes in spike production and forebrain dopamine release.
Cocaine addiction in humans is associated with long-term propensity to relapse. Using a rat relapse model, we found that cocaine seeking induced by exposure to cocaine-associated cues progressively increases after withdrawal. This progressive increase is associated with increases in brain-derived nerve growth factor (BDNF) levels within the mesolimbic dopamine system. Based on these findings, we studied whether BDNF infusions into the ventral tegmental area (VTA), the cell body region of mesolimbic dopamine neurons, would potentiate cocaine seeking after withdrawal. Rats were trained to self-administer cocaine for 10 d, and cocaine seeking was measured in extinction tests 3, 10, or 30 d after withdrawal. During testing, rats were exposed to contextual cues that had predicted cocaine availability during training, and lever presses resulted in contingent presentations of a discrete tone-light cue that was previously temporally paired with cocaine infusions. BDNF (0-0.75 microg/site) or nerve growth factor (NGF; 0-0.75 microg/site) was infused into the VTA 1-2 hr after the last self-administration session. To examine the role of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway in BDNF effects, U0126 (1 microg/site), an MEK inhibitor, was used. A single intra-VTA infusion of BDNF, but not NGF, induced long-lasting enhancement of cocaine seeking for up to 30 d, an effect reversed by U0126. In contrast, neither BDNF infusions into the substantia nigra, nor acute intra-VTA BDNF infusions 2 hr before testing on day 3 of withdrawal, were effective. These data suggest that BDNF-mediated neuroadaptations in mesolimbic areas are involved in the persistent cocaine seeking induced by exposure to drug cues after withdrawal.
Humans can acquire appropriate behaviors that maximize rewards on a trial-and-error basis. Recent electrophysiological and imaging studies have demonstrated that neural activity in the midbrain and ventral striatum encodes the error of reward prediction. However, it is yet to be examined whether the striatum is the main locus of reward-based behavioral learning. To address this, we conducted functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) of a stochastic decision task involving monetary rewards, in which subjects had to learn behaviors involving different task difficulties that were controlled by probability. We performed a correlation analysis of fMRI data by using the explanatory variables derived from subject behaviors. We found that activity in the caudate nucleus was correlated with short-term reward and, furthermore, paralleled the magnitude of a subject's behavioral change during learning. In addition, we confirmed that this parallelism between learning and activity in the caudate nucleus is robustly maintained even when we vary task difficulty by controlling the probability. These findings suggest that the caudate nucleus is one of the main loci for reward-based behavioral learning.
Activation of the CB1 cannabinoid receptor inhibits neurotransmission at numerous synapses in the brain. Indeed, CB1 is essential for certain types of both short- and long-term synaptic depression. It was demonstrated recently that CB1 is critical for activity-dependent long-term depression (LTD) at glutamatergic corticostriatal synapses in acute brain slice preparations. Here, we show that CB1 activation is necessary, but not solely sufficient, for induction of LTD and that the requisite signaling by endocannabinoids (eCBs) occurs during a time window limited to the first few minutes after high-frequency stimulation delivery. In addition, we have applied intracellularly anandamide membrane transporter inhibitors to provide novel evidence that postsynaptic transport mechanisms are responsible for the release of eCBs from striatal medium spiny neurons. These findings shed new light on the mechanisms by which transient eCB formation participates in the induction of long-lasting changes in synaptic efficacy that could contribute to brain information storage.
Studies on the mechanisms that underlie the function of small central presynaptic terminals have been hampered by the inaccessibility of these synapses to soluble reagents. Here, we permeabilized hippocampal synapses in culture, manipulated their interior, and monitored the resulting changes in vesicle mobilization with the styryl dye FM2-10. Using this method, we found that 1 microm Ca2+ after incubation with GTP or GTP-gamma-S could mobilize approximately 90% of the total recycling pool, whereas 1 microm Ca2+ application after dialysis of permeabilized synapses with GDP-beta-S mobilized approximately 30% of the recycling vesicles, presumably corresponding to the readily releasable pool. In electron micrographs of permeabilized hippocampal synapses stimulated with 1 microm Ca2+, we could detect significant vesicle depletion after preincubation with GTP-gamma-S, whereas preincubation with GDP-beta-S left the total vesicle pool relatively intact. Taken together, in this system replenishment of the readily releasable pool by the reserve vesicles was strictly GTP dependent. In contrast, vesicle replenishment and release did not require ATP or N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor (NSF); however, this process involved formation of new soluble NSF-attachment protein receptor (SNARE) complexes as judged by its sensitivity to tetanus toxin. These results suggest that in hippocampal synapses, vesicle mobilization and replenishment of the readily releasable pool require GTP and Ca2+ but do not necessitate ATP-dependent priming and SNARE recycling.
Oxidative mechanisms of injury are important in many neurological disorders, including hypoxic-ischemic brain damage. Cerebral palsy after preterm birth is hypothesized to be caused by hypoxic-ischemic injury of developing oligodendrocytes (OLs). Here we examined the developmental sensitivity of OLs to exogenous hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) with stage-specific rat oligodendrocyte cultures. We found that H2O2 itself or that generated by glucose oxidase was more toxic to developing than to mature OLs. Mature OLs were able to degrade H2O2 faster than developing OLs, suggesting that higher antioxidant enzyme activity might be the basis for their resistance. Catalase expression and activity were relatively constant during oligodendrocyte maturation, whereas glutathione peroxidase (GPx) was upregulated with a twofold to threefold increase in its expression and activity. Thus, it appeared that the developmental change in resistance to H2O2 was caused by modulation of GPx but not by catalase expression. To test the relative roles of catalase and GPx in the setting of oxidative stress, we measured enzyme activity in cells exposed to H2O2 and found that H2O2 induced a decrease in catalase activity in developing but not in mature OLs. Inhibition of GPx by mercaptosuccinate led to an increase in the vulnerability of mature OLs to H2O2 as well as a reduction in catalase activity. Finally, H2O2-dependent inactivation of catalase in developing OLs was prevented by the GPx mimic ebselen. These data provide evidence for a key role for GPx-catalase cooperativity in the resistance of mature OLs to H2O2-induced cell death.
The role of limbic, cortical, and striatal circuitry in a footshock reinstatement model of relapse to cocaine seeking was evaluated. Transient inhibition of the central extended amygdala [CEA; including the central nucleus of the amygdala (CN), ventral bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNSTv), and nucleus accumbens shell (NAshell)], ventral tegmental area (VTA), and motor circuitry [including the dorsal prefrontal cortex (PFCd), nucleus accumbens core (NAcore), and ventral pallidum (VP)] blocked the ability of footshock stress to reinstate lever pressing previously associated with cocaine delivery. However, inhibition of the basolateral amygdala, mediodorsal nucleus of the thalamus, or the ventral prefrontal cortex had no effect on drug-seeking behavior. These data suggest that footshock stress activates limbic circuitry of the CEA that, via the VTA, activates motor output circuitry responsible for producing lever press responding. Consistent with this notion, the D1/D2 dopamine receptor antagonist fluphenazine blocked footshock-induced reinstatement when infused into the PFCd. Further, inhibition of the NAshell blocked a footshock-induced increase in dopamine within the PFC and concomitantly blocked reinstatement responding. Also supporting the idea of a CEA-VTA-motor circuit in stress-induced reinstatement of cocaine seeking, inactivation of the PFCd was shown to block stress-induced glutamate release within the NAcore while concurrently inhibiting reinstatement responding. Taken together, these data suggest that footshock activates limbic circuitry in the CEA, which in turn activates a VTA dopamine projection to the PFCd. The rise in dopamine within the PFCd initiates reinstatement via a glutamatergic projection to the NAcore.
We developed a novel simple cDNA normalization method [termed duplex-specific nuclease (DSN) normalization] that may be effectively used for samples enriched with full-length cDNA sequences. DSN normalization involves the denaturation-reassociation of cDNA, degradation of the double-stranded (ds) fraction formed by abundant transcripts and PCR amplification of the equalized single-stranded (ss) DNA fraction. The key element of this method is the degradation of the ds fraction formed during reassociation of cDNA using the kamchatka crab DSN, as described recently. This thermostable enzyme displays a strong preference for cleaving ds DNA and DNA in DNA-RNA hybrid duplexes compared with ss DNA and RNA, irrespective of sequence length. We developed normalization protocols for both first-strand cDNA [when poly(A)+ RNA is available] and amplified cDNA (when only total RNA can be obtained). Both protocols were evaluated in model experiments using human skeletal muscle cDNA. We also employed DSN normalization to normalize cDNA from nervous tissues of the marine mollusc Aplysia californica (a popular model organism in neuroscience) to illustrate further the efficiency of the normalization technique.

Parkinson disease (PD) is characterized by the progressive degeneration of substantia nigra dopaminergic neurons projecting to the striatum. Since the deficit in striatal dopamine is the main cause of PD symptoms, it appears critical to preserve axon terminals. Significant axon protection from peripheral nerve Wallerian degeneration is observed in Wlds mice, a phenotype conferred by a spontaneous dominant mutation. To assess any Wlds-mediated rescue of dopamine fibers in a PD model, the nigrostriatal pathway of Wlds mice was lesioned with 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA), a catecholaminergic neurotoxin. Following 6-OHDA injection in the medial forebrain bundle, Wlds mice showed remarkable dopamine fiber protection in the striatum. Drug-induced rotational behavior confirmed the nigrostriatal fiber ability to release dopamine, although revealing an abnormal neurotransmitter control presumably due to disrupted axonal transport. Following 6-OHDA injection in the midstriatum, only a protection trend was observed. Strikingly, no protection of Wlds nigral dopaminergic cell bodies was obtained following either nigrostriatal lesion. Besides showing subtle differences in the degeneration process between subcellular compartments, the reported Wlds-mediated protection of the dopamine axon terminals in an animal model of PD may lead to the understanding of mechanisms underlying axon loss and to the development of new therapeutic approaches.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is an age-related disorder characterized by deposition of amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta) and degeneration of neurons in brain regions such as the hippocampus, resulting in progressive cognitive dysfunction. The pathogenesis of AD is tightly linked to Abeta deposition and oxidative stress, but it remains unclear as to how these factors result in neuronal dysfunction and death. We report alterations in sphingolipid and cholesterol metabolism during normal brain aging and in the brains of AD patients that result in accumulation of long-chain ceramides and cholesterol. Membrane-associated oxidative stress occurs in association with the lipid alterations, and exposure of hippocampal neurons to Abeta induces membrane oxidative stress and the accumulation of ceramide species and cholesterol. Treatment of neurons with alpha-tocopherol or an inhibitor of sphingomyelin synthesis prevents accumulation of ceramides and cholesterol and protects them against death induced by Abeta. Our findings suggest a sequence of events in the pathogenesis of AD in which Abeta induces membrane-associated oxidative stress, resulting in perturbed ceramide and cholesterol metabolism which, in turn, triggers a neurodegenerative cascade that leads to clinical disease.
Dopaminergic and glutamatergic neurotransmissions in the striatum play an essential role in motor- and reward-related behaviors. Dysfunction of these neurotransmitter systems has been found in Parkinson's disease, schizophrenia, and drug addiction. Cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (CDK5) negatively regulates postsynaptic signaling of dopamine in the striatum. This kinase also reduces the behavioral effects of cocaine. Here we demonstrate that, in addition to a postsynaptic role, CDK5 negatively regulates dopamine release in the striatum. Inhibitors of CDK5 increase evoked dopamine release in a way that is additive to that of cocaine. This presynaptic action of CDK5 also regulates glutamatergic transmission. Indeed, inhibition of CDK5 increases the activity and phosphorylation of N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors, and these effects are reduced by a dopamine D1 receptor antagonist. Using mice with a point mutation of the CDK5 site of the postsynaptic protein DARPP-32 (dopamine- and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein, molecular mass of 32 kDa), in the absence or in the presence of a dopamine D1 receptor antagonist, we provide evidence that CDK5 inhibitors potentiate dopaminergic transmission at both presynaptic and postsynaptic locations. These findings, together with the known ability of CDK5 inhibitors to prevent degeneration of dopaminergic neurons, suggest that this class of compounds could potentially be used as a novel treatment for disorders associated with dopamine deficiency, such as Parkinson's disease.
Estrogen (E) treatment induces axospinous synapses in rat hippocampus in vivo and in cultured hippocampal neurons in vitro. To better explore the molecular mechanisms underlying this phenomenon, we have established a mouse model for E action in the hippocampus by using Golgi impregnation to examine hippocampal dendritic spine morphology, radioimmunocytochemistry (RICC) and silver-enhanced immunocytochemistry to examine expression levels of synaptic protein markers, and hippocampal-dependent object-placement memory as a behavioral readout for the actions of E. In ovariectomized mice of several strains and F(1) hybrids, the total dendritic spine density on neurons in the CA1 region was not enhanced by E treatment, a finding that differs from that in the female rat. E treatment of ovariectomized C57BL/6J mice, however, caused an increase in the number of spines with mushroom shapes. By RICC and silver-enhanced immunocytochemistry, we found that the immunoreactivity of postsynaptic markers (PSD95 and spinophilin) and a presynaptic marker (syntaxin) were enhanced by E treatment throughout all fields of the dorsal hippocampus. In the object-placement tests, E treatment enhanced performance of object placement, a spatial episodic memory task. Taken together, the morphology and RICC results suggest a previously uncharacterized role of E in synaptic structural plasticity that may be interpreted as a facilitation of the spine-maturation process and may be associated with enhancement of hippocampal-dependent memory.
The parasubthalamic nucleus (PSTN) is a differentiation of the lateral hypothalamic area, characterized by a distinct population of neurons expressing beta-preprotachykinin (beta-PPT) mRNA. The axonal projections from the PSTN have been analyzed with the PHAL anterograde tract tracing method in rats. The results indicate that the cell group is distinguished by massive projections to parasympathetic preganglionic neurons in the brainstem (especially in the salivatory nuclei and dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus nerve) and to parts of the parabrachial nucleus and nucleus of the solitary tract that relay viscerosensory and gustatory information. In addition, the PSTN projects to cortical parts of the cerebral hemisphere (infralimbic, agranular insular, postpiriform transition and lateral entorhinal areas, and posterior basolateral amygdalar nucleus)-directly and also indirectly via thalamic feedback loops involving the paraventricular and mediodorsal nuclei-and to nuclear parts of the cerebral hemisphere (central amygdalar nucleus, striatal fundus, rhomboid nucleus of the bed nuclei of the stria terminalis, and substantia innominata). The PSTN is thus positioned to influence directly many cerebral hemisphere and hindbrain components of the central parasympathetic control network that is active, for example, during feeding behavior and cardiovascular regulation.
The present study examined the long-term (2 years) effects of estrogen loss or estrogen replacement therapy (ERT) on cholinergic neurons in the nucleus basalis of Meynert and on cholinergic fibers in the prefrontal and parietal cortex of adult female cynomolgus monkeys. Cholinergic fiber density in layer II of the prefrontal cortex was decreased in monkeys who were ovariectomized and treated with placebo for 2 years. In contrast, ovariectomized monkeys receiving ERT for 2 years had fiber densities that were comparable to those of intact controls. No differences in parietal cholinergic fiber density or nucleus basalis cholinergic neuron number or volume were found among intact, ovariectomized, or ERT monkeys. Our results suggest that ERT is effective in preventing region-specific changes in cortical cholinergic fibers that result from the loss of circulating ovarian hormones. These modest but appreciable effects on cholinergic neurobiology following long-term estrogen loss and ERT may contribute to changes in visuospatial attention function that is mediated by the prefrontal cortex.

Deletions of the sub-telomeric region of chromosome 22 have been associated with mental retardation, developmental delay, and autistic behaviors. This study investigated sub-telomeric anomalies of chromosome 22 using fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) probes in 82 subjects diagnosed with autism and atypical autism. No microdeletions were detected in this group. Similar FISH analyses were undertaken on two children with developmental delay, who were ascertained to be ring 22 during routine cytogenetic investigations. One subject was shown to have a microdeletion in the sub-telomeric region tested. Both children met the social and communication cut off for autism on the ADI and but did not meet the cut off for restrictive and repetitive behaviors. Only one of the two children met the criteria for PDD on the ADOS.
Alterations in dopaminergic system have been implicated in the pathophysiology of this disease for many years, and this study was performed to assess the possible involvement of the dopamine D4 receptor (DRD4) gene polymorphisms either in the 5' upstream or in the coding regions, in the etiology of schizophrenia. The approach included an association study with 90 Portuguese trios by doing the analysis of the individual alleles and the haplotypes. For the polymorphisms in the 5' upstream region (-C616G and -C521T) and in the coding region (48 bp repeat) of the DRD4 gene, negative results were obtained with both haplotype relative risk (HRR) and transmission disequilibrium test (TDT), as well as transmit. These data suggest that polymorphisms (-C616G, -C521T, and 48 bp repeat) at the DRD4 gene do not have a minor effect in the susceptibility to schizophrenia in our sample.
Calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) has diverse roles in virtually all cell types and it is regulated by a plethora of mechanisms. Local changes in Ca2+ concentration drive calmodulin binding and CaMKII activation. Activity is controlled further by autophosphorylation at multiple sites, which can generate an autonomously active form of the kinase (Thr286) or can block Ca2+/calmodulin binding (Thr305/306). The regulated actions of protein phosphatases at these sites also modulate downstream signalling from CaMKII. In addition, CaMKII targeting to specific subcellular microdomains appears to be necessary to account for the known signalling specificity, and targeting is regulated by Ca2+/calmodulin and autophosphorylation. The present review focuses on recent studies revealing the diversity of CaMKII interactions with proteins localized to neuronal dendrites. Interactions with various subunits of the NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartate) subtype of glutamate receptor have attracted the most attention, but binding of CaMKII to cytoskeletal and several other regulatory proteins has also been reported. Recent reports describing the molecular basis of each interaction and their potential role in the normal regulation of synaptic transmission and in pathological situations are discussed. These studies have revealed fundamental regulatory mechanisms that are probably important for controlling CaMKII functions in many cell types.

Dinapsoline is a full D(1) dopamine receptor agonist that produces robust rotational activity in the unilateral 6-OHDA rat model. This compound is orally active, and shows a low tendency to cause tolerance in rat models. The active enantiomer was determined to have the S-(+) configuration, and the opposite enantiomer is essentially devoid of biological activity. Taken together, dinapsoline has significant metabolic and pharmacological advantages over previous D(1) agonists. In an attempt to define the structure-activity relationships (SARs) and to map out the key elements surrounding the unique structure of dinapsoline, core analogues and substitution analogues of the parent tetracyclic condensed ring structure were prepared. Based on a recently developed synthesis of dinapsoline and its enantiomers, both core and substitution analogues on all four rings (A, B', C and D ring) of dinapsoline were synthesized. It was found that affinity for both D(1)and D(2) receptors was decreased by most substituents on the A, B', and C rings, whereas D ring substitutions preserved much of the dopamine receptor binding activity.
CD45 is a key protein tyrosine phosphatase regulating Src-family protein tyrosine kinases (Src-PTKs) in lymphocytes; precisely how it exerts its effect remains controversial, however. We previously demonstrated that CD45 negatively regulates Lyn in the WEHI-231 B-cell line. Here we show that negative regulation by CD45 is physiologically significant in B cells and that some CD45 is constitutively associated with glycolipid-enriched microdomains (GEMs), where it inhibits Src-PTKs by dephosphorylating both the negative and the positive regulatory sites. Upon B-cell receptor (BCR) ligation, however, CD45 dissociates from GEMs within 30 seconds, inducing phosphorylation of 2 regulatory sites and activation of Src-PTKs, but subsequently reassociates with the GEMs within 15 minutes. Disruption of GEMs with methyl-beta-cyclodextrin results in abrogation of BCR-induced apoptosis in WEHI-231 cells, suggesting GEMs are critical to signals leading to the fate determination. We propose that the primary function of CD45 is inhibition of Src-PTKs and that the level of Src-PTK activation and the B-cell fate are determined in part by dynamic behavior of CD45 with respect to GEMs.

Expression of dense-core granules, a typical exocytic organelle, is widely believed to be controlled by coordinate gene expression mechanisms specific to neurones and neurosecretory cells. Recent studies in PC12 cells, however, have suggested the number of granules/cells depends on the levels of only one of their cargo proteins, chromogranin A, regulating the metabolism of the other proteins, and thus the composition of the organelles, by an on/off switch mechanism. In addition, transfection of chromogranin A was reported to induce appearance of dense-core granules in the non-neurosecretory fibroblasts of the CV-1 line. Here the role of chromogranin A has been reinvestigated using not the heterogeneous PC12 line but several clones isolated therefrom. In these clones, investigated as such or after transfection with chromogranin A antisense sequences, the ratio between chromogranin A and its secretory protein mate, chromogranin B, was not constant but highly and apparently randomly variable. Variability of the chromogranin A/chromogranin B ratio was seen by confocal immunofluorescence also among the cells of single clones and subclones and among the granules of single cells. Moreover, stable and transient transfections of chromogranin A in a PC12 clone characterised by a low number of dense-core granules (one fifth of the reference clone) failed to modify significantly the number of the organelles, despite the several-fold increase of the granin. Finally, in three types of non-neurosecretory cells (CV-1, adenocarcinoma TS/A and a clone of PC12 incompetent for secretion) the transfected chromogranin A accumulated mostly in the Golgi/transGolgi area and was released rapidly from resting cells (constitutive secretion) as revealed by both immunofluorescence during cycloheximide treatment and pulse-chase experiments. Only a minor fraction was sorted to discrete organelles that were not dense-core granules, but primarily lysosomes because they contained no chromogranin B, and were largely positive for the late endosomal-lysosomal markers, lamp1 and lamp3. Dense-core granules are therefore true hallmarks of neurones and neurosecretory cells. Their number/cell appears independent of chromogranin A and their composition does not appear to be constant; in particular, they exhibit considerable, and so far unexplained variability in the chromogranin A/chromogranin B ratio.
Visual activity refines developing retinotectal maps and shapes individual retinal arbors via an NMDA receptor-dependent mechanism. As retinal axons grow into tectum, they slow markedly and emit many transient side branches behind the tip, assuming a &quot;bottlebrush&quot; morphology. Some branches are stabilized and branch further, giving rise to a compact arbor. The dynamic rate of branch addition and deletion is increased twofold when MK801 is used to block NMDA receptors, as if this prevents release of a stabilizing signal such as arachidonic acid (AA) from the postsynaptic neuron. In optic tract, AA mediates NCAM and L1 stimulation of axon growth by activating presynaptic protein kinase C (PKC) to phosphorylate GAP-43 and stabilize F-actin, and, if present in tectum, this growth control pathway could be modulated by postsynaptic activation. To test for the effects on arbor morphology of blocking PKC or AA release, we examined DiO-labeled retinal axons of larval zebrafish with time-lapse videomicroscopy. Bath application of the selective PKC inhibitor bisindolylmaleimide from 2 or 3 days onward doubled the rate at which side branches were added and deleted, as seen with MK801, and also prevented maturation of the arbor so that it retained a &quot;bottlebrush&quot; morphology. In order to selectively block the PKC being transported to retinal terminals, we injected the irreversible inhibitor calphostin C into the eye from which the ganglion cells were labeled, and this produced both effects seen with bath application. In contrast, there were no effects of control injections, which included Ringers into the same eye and the same dose into the opposite eye (actually much closer to the tectum of interest), to rule out the possibility that the inhibitor leaked from the eye to act on tectal cells. For comparison, we examined arbors treated with the NMDA blocker MK801 at half-hour time-lapse intervals, and detected the twofold rise in rates of branch addition and deletion previously reported in Xenopus larvae, but not the structural effect seen with the PKC inhibitors. In addition, we could produce both effects seen with PKC inhibitors by using RHC80267 to block AA release from DAG lipase, indicating that AA is the main drive for PKC activation. Thus, the results show a distinct role of AA and presynaptic PKC in both maturation of arbor structure and in the dynamic control of branching. The effects on branch dynamics were present regardless of the level of maturity of arbor structure. The fact that they mimicked those of MK801 suggests that presynaptic PKC may be involved in the NMDA receptor-driven stabilization of developing retinal arbors.
Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy was used to study the chemical composition of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) microdialysate from the rat brain. In vivo microdialysis techniques were used in several brain regions including the frontal cortex, amygdala, striatum, nucleus accumbens and third ventricle and dialysate samples (20microl) were subsequently analyzed by one and two-dimensional 1H NMR experiments using a Varian nanoprobe. Neurochemical resonances were assigned on the basis of published chemical shifts [Lindon et al., Ann. Rep. NMR Spectrosc. 38 (1999) 1-88], correlation experiments and addition of standard compounds. Glucose, lactate, formate, pyruvate, creatinine, gamma-hydroxybutyrate, acetate, glutamate, glycine, tyrosine, isoleucine, leucine, alanine and choline were some of the neurochemicals unambiguously assigned. Additional studies in the frontal cortex showed that amino acids such as glutamate, alanine and isoleucine were sensitive to local tetrodotoxin (TTX) infusion. The NMR spectra were also subjected to multivariate statistical methods to compare the different brain regions examined. To our knowledge, the present experiments are the first to describe the combination of nanoprobe NMR technology with in vivo microdialysis for the analysis of brain neurochemistry in freely-moving rats.
A variety of setups and paradigms are used in the neurosciences for automatically tracking the location of an animal in an experiment and for extracting features of interest out of it. Many of these features, however, are critically sensitive to the unavoidable noise and artifacts of tracking. Here, we examine the relevant properties of several smoothing methods and suggest a combination of methods for retrieving locations and velocities and recognizing arrests from time series of coordinates of an animal's center of gravity. We accomplish these by using robust nonparametric methods, such as Running Median (RM) and locally weighted regression methods. The smoothed data may, subsequently, be segmented to obtain discrete behavioral units with proven ethological relevance. New parameters such as the length, duration, maximal speed, and acceleration of these units provide a wealth of measures for, e.g., mouse behavioral phenotyping, studies on spatial orientation in vertebrates and invertebrates, and studies on rodent hippocampal function. This methodology may have implications for many tests of spatial behavior.
We have developed an ultra small, translucent array of electrodes for use in the parasaggital cerebellar slice preparation. This positionable array is capable of stimulating multiple independent bundles of parallel fibers (PFs), which synapse onto a single Purkinje neuron. On a silicon substrate, a low-stress silicon nitride film was used both as a structural layer and as electrical insulation. Evaporated gold pads and interconnects were sandwiched between two such layers. A bulk anisotropic silicon etch released the individual arrays. The electrodes are supported within a 2-microm-thick cantilever of translucent silicon nitride. In one design, eight 4-microm-wide square electrodes are arranged on 8-microm-centers. Another design, half the scale of the first, was also tested. The array was mounted on a micromanipulator and can be visualized by an upright microscope. It can then be positioned in the dendritic arbor of a Purkinje neuron while not disturbing a recording pipette at the soma. Paired-pulse facilitation experiments have confirmed that the electrodes are capable of stimulating non-overlapping bundles of PFs. This device will be useful for exploring spatiotemporal synaptic integration in single neurons. Potential applications in experiments on cerebellar LTD are also discussed.
Exposure of adults to loud noise can overstimulate the auditory system, damage the cochlea, and destroy cochlear nerve axons and their synaptic endings in the brain. Cochlear nerve loss probably results from the death of cochlear inner hair cells (IHC). Additional degeneration in the cochlear nucleus (CN) is hypothesized to stem from overstimulation of the system, which may produce excitotoxicity. This study tested these predictions by exposing one ear of anesthetized adult chinchillas to a loud noise, which damaged the ipsilateral cochlea and induced degeneration in the glutamatergic cochlear nerve. During the first postexposure week, before cochlear nerve axons degenerated, glutamatergic synaptic release in the ipsilateral CN was elevated and uptake was depressed, consistent with hyperactivity of glutamatergic transmission and perhaps with the operation of an excitotoxic mechanism. By 14 days, when cochlear nerve fibers degenerated, glutamatergic synaptic release and uptake in the CN became deficient. By 90 days, a resurgence of transmitter release and an elevation of AMPA receptor binding suggested transmission upregulation through plasticity that resembled changes after mechanical cochlear damage. These changes may contribute to tinnitus and other pathologic symptoms that precede and accompany hearing loss. In contrast, the other ear, protected with a silicone plug during the noise exposure, exhibited virtually no damage in the cochlea or the cochlear nerve. Altered glutamatergic release and AMPA receptor binding activity in the CN suggested upregulatory plasticity driven by signals emanating from the CN on the noise-exposed side.
The myelin basic protein (MBP) gene encodes the classic MBPs and the golli proteins, which are related structurally to the MBPs but are not components of the myelin sheath. A yeast two-hybrid approach was used to identify molecular partners that interact with the golli proteins. A mouse cDNA was cloned that encoded a protein of 261 amino acids and called golli-interacting protein (GIP). Database analysis revealed that GIP was the murine homolog of human nuclear LIM interactor-interacting factor (NLI-IF), a nuclear protein whose function is just beginning to be understood. It is a member of a broad family of molecules, found in species ranging from yeast to human, that contain a common domain of approximately 100 amino acids. Immunocytochemical and Northern blot analyses showed co-expression of GIP and golli in several neural cell lines. GIP and golli also showed a similar developmental pattern of mRNA expression in brain, and immunohistochemical staining of GIP and golli showed co-expression in several neuronal populations and in oligodendrocytes in the mouse brain. GIP was localized predominantly in nuclei. GIP co-immunoprecipitated with golli in several in vitro assays as well as from PC12 cells under physiologic conditions. GIP was the first member of this family shown to interact with nuclear LIM interactor (NLI). NLI co-immunoprecipitated with GIP and golli from lysates of N19 cells transfected with NLI, further confirming an interaction between golli, GIP, and NLI. The ability of GIP to interact with both golli and NLI, and the nuclear co-localization of GIP and golli in many cells, indicates a role for the golli products of the MBP gene in NLI- associated regulation of gene expression.
It is recognized that monoamine reuptake inhibitors (MARIs) exert beneficial effects in the treatment of major depression and general anxiety disorder. The aim of this study was to identify proteins regulated by this class of antidepressant using a proteome differential profiling approach. Either venlafaxine or fluoxetine was administered systemically to adult rats for 2 weeks, and protein patterns from rat hippocampal cytosolic extracts were compared by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis. Silver-stained protein spots displaying differential expression were identified by mass spectrometry. Thirty-three protein spots were modulated by both drug treatments compared to controls. The classification of several proteins that were sorted by function suggested convergent pathway activities for both MARIs at the post-receptor level. These included proteins associated with neurogenesis (insulin like growth factor 1 (IGF-1), glia maturation factor [GMF]-beta), outgrowth/maintenance of neuronal processes (hippocampal cholinergic neurostimulating peptide [HCNP], PCTAIRE-3), and with neural regeneration/axonal guidance collapsin response mediator protein (CRMP-2) systems. Other modulated proteins indicated an increase in neuronal vesicular cell trafficking and synaptic plasticity (Ras-related protein 4a (Rab4a), Ras-related protein 1b (Rab1b), heat shock protein 10 [HSP10]), as well as neurosteroidogenic (hydroxysteroid sulfotransferase A) and possible anti-apoptotic (dimethylargininase-1 L-N,N-dimethylarginine dimethylaminohydrolase-1 [DDAH-1], pyruvate dehydrogenase-E1 [PDH-E1], antioxidant protein-2 [AOP-2]) pathway-mediated regulatory events. Parallel studies to investigate further the effects of venlafaxine and fluoxetine on adult hippocampal neurogenesis in vivo by quantitative bromodeoxyuridine immunolabeling revealed a significant drug-induced increase in the proliferation rate and long-term survivability of progenitor stem cells located in the subgranular zone. These data suggest that MARIs share wide-ranging proteome changes within the hippocampal formation, beyond 5-HT/NE neurotransmission. This may reflect long-term functional adaptations required for antidepressant activity.
Most schizophrenia research is undertaken on clinical samples in current contact with mental health services. It is not clear to what extent such samples are representative of the population of people with schizophrenia or whether they differ significantly, for example, from those who are being treated predominantly in primary care settings or who are recruited from non-clinical sources. Data from a volunteer schizophrenia research register and two recent Australian studies are reported, the Low Prevalence (psychotic) Disorders Study and an associated study of schizophrenia in general practice, in which all participants completed the same clinical assessment interview. Participants meeting criteria for schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder were classified according to their source of recruitment: volunteer research register (n=128), general practice (n=123), community (n=236) or public inpatient (n=178) mental health services. Hierarchical discriminant function analyses revealed significant differences between these recruitment sources with respect to illness-onset factors, relationship and support factors, current functioning and course of illness. A severity/functioning gradient was observed across the four recruitment sources, possibly reflecting a spectrum of neurobiological impairment from good to poor prognosis. The implications of these findings for sampling strategies in schizophrenia research are discussed.
Little is known about the effects of recurring depressive episodes on cognition and behavior. The objective of the study was to compare cognitive function and depression-related behavior between healthy female subjects and female outpatients with early-onset DSM-IV recurrent major depressive disorder and to investigate the effect of cumulative depressive duration. Neuropsychological tests and scales for apathy, anhedonia and psychomotor retardation were assessed in 23 female patients and 60 healthy age-matched female controls. Significantly higher levels of apathy, anhedonia and psychomotor retardation, and worse performance on tests of executive function were found in the patient group compared with the healthy controls. In the patient group, cumulative depression duration was not significantly correlated with cognitive function, apathy, anhedonia or psychomotor retardation. The deficits in executive function were not related to the actual level of depression. Mild executive dysfunction may be the effect of the illness process underlying recurrent depressive disorder. Repeated or extensive depressive episodes do not seem to additionally affect cognitive deficits or behavior in depressed patients.
Neurotensin (NT) is a neuropeptide that induces a wide range of biological activities including hypothermia and analgesia. Such effects are mediated by the NT receptors Ntsr1, Ntsr2 and Ntsr3, although the involvement of each receptor in specific NT functions remains unknown. To address nociceptive function in vivo, we generated both Ntsr1-deficient and Ntsr2-deficient mice. In addition, histochemical analyses of both Ntsr1 and Ntsr2 mRNAs were performed in the mouse brain regions involved in NT-related nociception. The expression of Ntsr2 mRNA was greater than that of Ntsr1 in the periaqueductal gray (PAG) and the rostral ventral medulla (RVM). The mutant and control mice were subjected to the examination of thermal nociception, and in the hot plate test, a significant alteration in jump latency was observed in Ntsr2-deficient mice compared to Ntsr1-deficient or wild-type control mice. Latencies of tail flick and hind paw licking of the mutant mice were not affected compared to control mice. These results suggest that Ntsr2 has an important role in thermal nociception compared to Ntsr1, and that these mutant mice may represent a useful tool for the development of analgesic drugs.
We examined the blood supply of the cat's visual cortex using alkaline phosphatase histochemistry to demonstrate the capillary endothelial cells. In the adult, layer 4 is marked by a band that is of obviously greater density, extends throughout areas 17 and 18, and ends abruptly at the 18/19 border. We quantified blood vessel density in area 17, observing a 23% greater density in layer 4 than in supragranular and infragranular layers. This difference reflects a laminar difference in metabolic rate. In three animals studied using the metabolic marker 2-deoxyglucose, layer 4 was 25% denser than the other layers. The band of greater density in layer 4 is not present in newborn kittens, but becomes apparent at about 5 weeks of age. Early in development, the endothelial cells form filopodia as the capillaries grow and branch. The density of blood vessels decreases slightly during the first week of postnatal life, but increases between 1 and 6 weeks of age, so that by 6 weeks, the blood supply of the visual cortex resembles that seen in the adult. This pattern resembles that of cortical metabolism seen with 2-deoxyglucose [J. Cereb. Blood Flow Metab. 11 (1991) 35], but the increase in vascular density precedes that in glucose metabolism.
Olfactory bulbectomy is one of the most validated models of depression. We demonstrate that bilateral removal of the olfactory bulbs in rats produced a significant decline of allopregnanolone content in a select cerebrocortical area which was reversed by chronic (3-week) treatment with three different classes of antidepressant (desipramine, fluoxetine, and sertraline, and venlafaxine). The effects of the chronic antidepressant treatments on allopregnanolone cortical content are observed at a time which typically coincides with the drug's abilities to reverse the behavioral deficits of the bulbectomy syndrome. We therefore propose that normalization of allopregnanolone cerebrocortical levels may contribute to the antidepressant-like profile of these drugs in the olfactory-bulbectomized rat model of depression.
Lipid microdomains can selectively include or exclude proteins and may be important in a variety of functions such as protein sorting, cell signaling, and synaptic transmission. The present study demonstrates that two different voltage-gated calcium channels, which both interact with soluble N-ethyl-maleimide-sensitive fusion protein attachment protein receptor (SNARE) proteins but have distinct subcellular distributions and roles in synaptic transmission, are differently distributed in lipid microdomains; presynaptic P/Q (Cav2.1) but not Lc (Cav1.2) calcium channel subtypes are mainly accumulated in detergent-insoluble complexes. The immunoisolation of multiprotein complexes from detergent-insoluble or detergent-soluble fractions shows that the alpha1A subunits of Cav2.1 colocalize and interact with SNARE complexes in lipid microdomains. The altered organization of these microdomains caused by saponin and methyl-beta-cyclodextrin treatment largely impairs the buoyancy and distribution of Cav2.1 channels and SNAREs in flotation gradients. On the other hand, cholesterol reloading partially reverses the drug effects. Methyl-beta-cyclodextrin treatment alters the colocalization of Cav2.1 with the proteins of the exocytic machinery and also impairs calcium influx in nerve terminals. These results show that lipid microdomains in presynaptic terminals are important in organizing membrane sites specialized for synaptic vesicle exocytosis. The cholesterol-enriched microdomains contribute to optimizing the compartmentalization of exocytic machinery and the calcium influx that triggers synaptic vesicle exocytosis.
Tropomodulins (Tmod) bind to the N terminus of tropomyosin and cap the pointed end of actin filaments. Tropomyosin alone also inhibits the rate of actin depolymerization at the pointed end of filaments. Here we have defined 1) the structural requirements of the N terminus of tropomyosin important for regulating the pointed end alone and with erythrocyte Tmod (Tmod1), and 2) the Tmod1 subdomains required for binding to tropomyosin and for regulating the pointed end. Changes in pyrene-actin fluorescence during polymerization and depolymerization were measured with actin filaments blocked at the barbed end with gelsolin. Three tropomyosin isoforms differently influence pointed end dynamics. Recombinant TM5a, a short non-muscle alpha-tropomyosin, inhibited depolymerization. Recombinant (unacetylated) TM2 and N-acetylated striated muscle TM (stTM), long alpha-tropomyosin isoforms with the same N-terminal sequence, different from TM5a, also inhibited depolymerization but were less effective than TM5a. All blocked the pointed end with Tmod1 in the order of effectiveness TM5a &gt;stTM &gt;TM2, showing the importance of the N-terminal sequence and modification. Tmod1-(1-344), lacking the C-terminal 15 residues, did not nucleate polymerization but blocked the pointed end with all three tropomyosin isoforms as does a shorter fragment, Tmod1-(1-92), lacking the C-terminal &quot;capping&quot; domain though higher concentrations were required. An even shorter fragment, Tmod1-(1-48), bound tropomyosin but did not influence actin filament elongation. Tropomyosin-Tmod may function to locally regulate cytoskeletal dynamics in cells by stabilizing actin filaments.
The side chains of His30 and Tyr166 from adjacent subunits in the homotetramer human manganese superoxide dismutase (Mn-SOD) form a hydrogen bond across the dimer interface and participate in a hydrogen-bonded network that extends to the active site. Compared with wild-type Mn-SOD, the site-specific mutants H30N, Y166F, and the corresponding double mutant showed 10-fold decreases in steady-state constants for catalysis measured by pulse radiolysis. The observation of no additional effect upon the second mutation is an example of cooperatively interacting residues. A similar effect was observed in the thermal stability of these enzymes; the double mutant did not reduce the major unfolding transition to an extent greater than either single mutant. The crystal structures of these site-specific mutants each have unique conformational changes, but each has lost the hydrogen bond across the dimer interface, which results in a decrease in catalysis. These same mutations caused an enhancement of the dissociation of the product-inhibited complex. That is, His30 and Tyr166 in wild-type Mn-SOD act to prolong the lifetime of the inhibited complex. This would have a selective advantage in blocking a cellular overproduction of toxic H2O2.
Cell-to-cell communication is a crucial prerequisite for the development and maintenance of multicellular organisms. To date, diverse mechanisms of intercellular exchange of information have been documented, including chemical synapses, gap junctions, and plasmodesmata. Here, we describe highly sensitive nanotubular structures formed de novo between cells that create complex networks. These structures facilitate the selective transfer of membrane vesicles and organelles but seem to impede the flow of small molecules. Accordingly, we propose a novel biological principle of cell-to-cell interaction based on membrane continuity and intercellular transfer of organelles.

Pubertal development is associated with increased activity of the gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) neuronal system and rising gonadal steroid levels. The purpose of this study was to determine whether different circulating levels of testosterone affect GnRH mRNA and luteinizing hormone (LH) to the same degree prior to and following pubertal maturation. Pre- and post-pubertal male Syrian hamsters were gonadectomized and treated with timed-release testosterone pellets (0, 0.5, 1.5, or 2.5mg) for one week. Following treatment, three separate brain tissue dissections containing the majority of GnRH cell bodies, tenia tecta and medial septum (TT/MS), diagonal band of Broca/organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis (DBB/OVLT), and preoptic area (POA), were analyzed for GnRH mRNA levels by RNase protection assay and terminal plasma luteinizing hormone concentrations were determined by radioimmunoassay. Pre-pubertal animals were more sensitive to testosterone negative feedback on LH. Conversely, the ability of testosterone to reduce GnRH mRNA was much greater after pubertal development. Specifically, GnRH mRNA in the TT/MS was considerably higher in adults, and testosterone reduced GnRH mRNA in a dose-dependent manner only in adults. These data indicate that although testosterone is a powerful suppressor of LH release before puberty, it does not have appreciable control over GnRH mRNA until after puberty. Furthermore, the pubertal increase in GnRH mRNA appears to occur via steroid feedback-independent mechanisms in the male Syrian hamster.
The neuromodulator adenosine regulates immune activation and neuronal survival through specific G-protein-coupled receptors expressed on macrophages and neurons, including the A1 adenosine receptor (A1AR). Here we show that A1AR null (A1AR-/-) mice developed a severe progressive-relapsing form of experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE) compared with their wild-type (A1AR+/+) littermates. Worsened demyelination, axonal injury, and enhanced activation of microglia/macrophages were observed in A1AR-/- animals. In addition, spinal cords from A1AR-/- mice demonstrated increased proinflammatory gene expression during EAE, whereas anti-inflammatory genes were suppressed compared with A1AR+/+ animals. Macrophages from A1AR-/- animals exhibited increased expression of the proinflammatory genes, interleukin-1beta, and matrix metalloproteinase-12 on immune activation when matched with A1AR+/+ control cells. A1AR-/- macrophage-derived soluble factors caused significant oligodendrocyte cytotoxicity compared with wild-type controls. The A1AR was downregulated in microglia in A1AR+/+ mice during EAE accompanied by neuroinflammation, which recapitulated findings in multiple sclerosis (MS) patients. Caffeine treatment augmented A1AR expression on microglia, with ensuing reduction of EAE severity, which was further enhanced by concomitant treatment with the A1AR agonist, adenosine amine congener. Thus, modulation of neuroinflammation by the A1AR represents a novel mechanism that provides new therapeutic opportunities for MS and other demyelinating diseases.
Animal and human studies of sleep and learning have demonstrated that training on various tasks increases subsequent rapid eye movement (REM) sleep and phasic pontine-wave (P-wave) activity, followed by improvement in performance on the learned task. It is well documented that REM sleep deprivation after learning trials blocks the expected improvement in performance on subsequent retesting. Our aim was to test whether experimentally induced P-wave generator activation could eliminate the learning impairment produced by post-training REM sleep deprivation. Rats were trained on a two-way active avoidance-learning task. Immediately thereafter, two groups of those rats received a control vehicle (100 nl saline) microinjection and one group received a carbachol (50 ng in 100 nl saline) microinjection into the P-wave generator. The carbachol-injected group and one of the two control saline microinjected groups were selectively deprived of REM sleep during a 6 hr polygraphic recording session. All rats were then tested on the avoidance-learning task. The rats that received both the control saline injection and REM sleep deprivation showed learning deficits compared with the control saline-injected rats that were allowed to sleep normally. In contrast, the rats that received the carbachol microinjection and REM sleep deprivation demonstrated normal learning. These results demonstrate, for the first time, that carbachol-induced activation of the P-wave generator prevents the memory-impairing effects of post-training REM sleep deprivation. This evidence supports our hypothesis that the activation of the P-wave generator during REM sleep deprivation enhances a physiological process of memory, which occurs naturally during post-training REM sleep.
CNS lesions induce production of ECM molecules that inhibit axon regeneration. One major inhibitory family is the chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CSPGs). Reduction of their glycosaminoglycan (GAG) chains with chondroitinase ABC leads to increased axon regeneration that does not extend well past the lesion. Chondroitinase ABC, however, is unable to completely digest the GAG chains from the protein core, leaving an inhibitory &quot;stub&quot; carbohydrate behind. We used a newly designed DNA enzyme, which targets the mRNA of a critical enzyme that initiates glycosylation of the protein backbone of PGs, xylosyltransferase-1. DNA enzyme administration to TGF-beta-stimulated astrocytes in culture reduced specific GAG chains. The same DNA enzyme applied to the injured spinal cord led to a strong reduction of the GAG chains in the lesion penumbra and allowed axons to regenerate around the core of the lesion. Our experiments demonstrate the critical role of PGs, and particularly those in the penumbra, in causing regeneration failure in the adult spinal cord.
Innate immunity is a specific and organized immunological program engaged by peripheral organs and the CNS to maintain homeostasis after stress and injury. In neurodegenerative disorders, its putative deregulation, featured by inflammation and activation of glial cells resulting from inherited mutations or viral/bacterial infections, likely contributes to neuronal death. However, it remains unclear to what extent environmental factors and innate immunity cooperate to modulate the interactions between the neuronal and non-neuronal elements in the perturbed CNS. In the present study, we addressed the effects of acute and chronic administration of lipopolysaccharide (LPS), a Gram-negative bacterial wall component, in a genetic model of neurodegeneration. Transgenic mice expressing a mutant form of the superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1(G37R)) linked to familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis were challenged intraperitoneally with a single nontoxic or repeated injections of LPS (1 mg/kg). At different ages, SOD1(G37R) mice responded normally to acute endotoxemia. Remarkably, only a chronic challenge with LPS in presymptomatic 6-month-old SOD1(G37R) mice exacerbated disease progression by 3 weeks and motor axon degeneration. Closely associated with the severity of disease is the stronger and restricted upregulation of the receptor of innate immunity Toll-like receptor 2 and proinflammatory cytokines in degenerating regions of the ventral spinal cord and efferent fiber tracts of the brain from the LPS-treated SOD1(G37R) mice. This robust immune response was not accompanied by the establishment of acquired immunity. Our results provide solid evidence that environmental factors and innate immunity can cooperate to influence the course of disease of an inherited neuropathology.
Fever is an important part of the host defense response, yet fever can be detrimental if it is uncontrolled. We provide the first evidence that 15-deoxy-Delta12,14-prostaglandin J2 (15d-PGJ2), an endogenous ligand for peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARgamma), can attenuate the febrile response to lipopolysaccharide (LPS) in rats via an action on the brain. Furthermore, we show that PPARgamma is expressed in the hypothalamus, an important locus in the brain for fever generation. In addition, 15d-PGJ2 and its synthesizing enzyme (PGD2 synthase) were present in rat cerebrospinal fluid, and their levels were enhanced in response to systemic injection of LPS. The antipyretic effect of 15d-PGJ2 was associated with reduction in LPS-stimulated cyclooxygenase-2 expression in the hypothalamus but not in p44/p42 mitogen-activated protein kinase phosphorylation or in the expression of the PPARgamma. Thus it is likely that there is a parallel induction of an endogenous prostanoid pathway in the brain capable of limiting deleterious actions of the proinflammatory prostaglandin E2-dependent pathway.
The catalytic subunit of telomerase reverse transcriptase (TERT) protects dividing cells from replicative senescence in vitro. Here, we show that expression of TERT mRNA is induced in the ipsilateral cortical neurons after occlusion of the middle cerebral artery in adult mice. Transgenic mice that overexpress TERT showed significant resistance to ischemic brain injury. Among excitotoxicity, oxidative stress, and apoptosis comprising of routes of ischemic neuronal death, NMDA receptor-mediated excitotoxicity was reduced in forebrain cell cultures overexpressing TERT. NMDA-induced accumulation of cytosolic free Ca2+ ([Ca2+]c) was reduced in forebrain neurons from TERT transgenic mice, which was attributable to the rapid flow of [Ca2+]c into the mitochondria from the cytosol without change in Ca2+ influx and efflux through the plasma membrane. The present study provides evidence that TERT is inducible in postmitotic neurons after ischemic brain injury and prevents NMDA neurotoxicity through shift of the cytosolic free Ca2+ into the mitochondria, and thus plays a protective role in ameliorating ischemic neuronal cell death.
Repeated sequence signatures are characteristic features of all genomic DNA. We have made a rigorous search for repeat genomic sequences in the human pathogens Neisseria meningitidis, Neisseria gonorrhoeae and Haemophilus influenzae and found that by far the most frequent 9-10mers residing within coding regions are the DNA uptake sequences (DUS) required for natural genetic transformation. More importantly, we found a significantly higher density of DUS within genes involved in DNA repair, recombination, restriction-modification and replication than in any other annotated gene group in these organisms. Pasteurella multocida also displayed high frequencies of a putative DUS identical to that previously identified in H.influenzae and with a skewed distribution towards genome maintenance genes, indicating that this bacterium might be transformation competent under certain conditions. These results imply that the high frequency of DUS in genome maintenance genes is conserved among phylogenetically divergent species and thus are of significant biological importance. Increased DUS density is expected to enhance DNA uptake and the over-representation of DUS in genome maintenance genes might reflect facilitated recovery of genome preserving functions. For example, transient and beneficial increase in genome instability can be allowed during pathogenesis simply through loss of antimutator genes, since these DUS-containing sequences will be preferentially recovered. Furthermore, uptake of such genes could provide a mechanism for facilitated recovery from DNA damage after genotoxic stress.
2-aminoethylbenzofurans constitute a new class of H(3) antagonists that are more rotationally constrained than most previously reported H(3) antagonists. They retain high potency at human and rat receptors, with efficient CNS penetration observed in 35. The SAR of the basic amine moiety was compared in three different series of analogues. The greatest potency was found in analogues bearing a 2-methylpyrrolidine, a 2,5-dimethylpyrrolidine, or a 2,6-dimethylpiperidine.
A series of thiazole based 5HT(7) ligands has been identified from screening. Optimisation of the pendent aryl group and modification of the core gave a related series of high affinity, selective thiopyridine based 5HT(7) ligands, the most active of which behaves as a partial agonist.
Further SAR studies on novel histamine H(3) receptor antagonists are presented. Compound 14bb is a potent antagonist of both the rat cortical and human clone receptors, and is demonstrated to act functionally as an antagonist in an in vivo mouse dipsogenia model.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) has been implicated in antiepileptic action in different in vivo and in vitro epilepsy models in rats and mice. Both Y2 and Y5 receptors could mediate the seizure-suppressant effect of NPY. However, lack of selective ligands precluded previous studies from conclusively evaluating the role of Y5 receptors in anti-epileptiform action of NPY. In the present study, using the new highly selective Y5 receptor antagonist, CGP71683A, and agonist, [cPP]hPP, we show that the Y5 receptor subtype is centrally involved in NPY-induced suppression of spontaneous epileptiform (interictaform) bursting in the CA3 area of rat hippocampal slices. This novel finding underscores the importance of Y5 receptors as a potential target for future antiepileptic therapy, particularly, for interictal components of temporal lobe epilepsy.

Increasing evidences suggest that, after neuregulin (NRG) stimulation, ErbB4 undergoes a series of proteolysis, including gamma-secretase cleavage. The released ErbB4 intracellular domain (EICD) is translocated into nucleus and has a transcriptional function. Although NRG-ErbB4 signaling mediates maturation of oligodendrocytes (OLs), the role of EICD and gamma-secretase in this process remains elusive. Here, we showed that NRG-ErbB4 interaction accumulated EICD in the nucleus and promoted the expression of myelin basic protein expression in OLs. Conversely, inhibitor of ErbB4 or gamma-secretase blocked the capacity of NRG. Nuclear accumulation of EICD did not influence maturation of neurons and astrocytes and early development of OLs. We also found that EICD translocation accorded a temporal pattern, consistent with the developmental gradient of hippocampus. Our data suggest that gamma-secretase activation and EICD nuclear translocation are required for OL maturation induced by NRG, and ErbB4 acts as a functional receptor depending on a new signaling cascade.
The endogenous peptide nociceptin (orphanin FQ) plays a role in several important physiological functions in the CNS such as pain, anxiety and locomotion. It has previously been found that injection of 10 nmol nociceptin into the CA3 region of the hippocampus markedly impairs spatial learning and memory in the rat. The present study examined the effects of lower doses of nociceptin (3.3, 1, 0.33 and 0.1 nmol/rat) on spatial learning. The 3.3 nmol dose impaired spatial learning over the 5 days of training although the effect was not as strong as with 10 nmol. In contrast, the two lower doses, 1 and 0.33 nmol/rat, improved spatial learning whereas the lowest dose, 0.1 nmol/rat, had no significant effect. Both the impairing and facilitating effect of nociceptin could be blocked by an ORL-1 receptor antagonist, [Phe1Psi(CH(2)-NH)Gly2]NC(1-13)NH2 (10 nmol/rat), indicating that both effects are ORL-1 receptor-mediated. The 3.3 nmol dose of nociceptin did not impair the performance in the visual platform task and did not alter swim speed or motor activity indicating no effects on motivation or motor performance. Taken together, these results show that nociceptin has a biphasic dose-effect curve and provide further evidence for a role of this neuropeptide in cognitive processes in the hippocampus.
This study investigates whether retinal ischemia/reperfusion leads to alterations in the expression of AMPA-type glutamate receptor (AMPAR) subunits GluR1-4. In ischemia-vulnerable hippocampal neurons, a subunit-specific downregulation of GluR2 precedes the actual neurodegeneration. Our purpose was to study whether retinal ischemia induces a similar downregulation of GluR2 preceding the loss of ganglion and amacrine cells. A 60-min ischemic period was followed by reperfusion lasting between 2 h and 7 days. Changes in the expression patterns of GluR1-4 were assessed using immunocytochemistry. In the same sections, alterations in cell density, thickness of retinal layers, and density of apoptotic cells were investigated. Two-hour post-ischemia, GluR1 immunoreactivity was nearly absent from the inner plexiform layer (IPL). Thereafter, labeling intensity recovered slowly and was close to control levels at 7 days, albeit in a thinner IPL. The decrease in GluR2/3 labeling intensity was most profound at 4 h. The recovery of GluR2/3 staining intensity was slow, and staining was still decreased at 7 days. GluR2 immunoreactivity was not attenuated after ischemia. GluR4 labeling showed a similar time course as observed for GluR1, but the decrease in immunoreactivity was less profound and the recovery was nearly complete. The immunostaining of PKCalpha, a rod bipolar cell marker, was unaffected at all reperfusion times. The reduction of GluR staining preceded both the typical thinning of the IPL and the peak of cell loss, but coincided with a significant swelling of the IPL. In conclusion, retinal ischemia/reperfusion leads to differential changes in the expression of the different AMPA-type GluR subunits, which may affect excitatory synaptic transmission in the inner retina. However, no evidence was found for a preferential loss of GluR2 immunoreactivity that could account for selective neurodegeneration of amacrine and ganglion cells after retinal ischemia.
The initial response to an ischemic event is the rapid release of excitatory amino acid's followed by the activation of the &quot;ischemic cascade&quot;. It has been suggested that neurosteroids, which act as negative modulators of excitatory amino acid receptors, may improve behavioral functions and promote neuronal survival following ischemia. The present study evaluated the pharmacological effects of 3-alpha-ol-5-beta-pregnan-20-one hemisuccinate (ABHS), a neurosteroid that inhibits excitatory amino acid receptor function, in a rabbit reversible spinal cord ischemia model (RSCIM). ABHS was administered (25 mg/kg) intravenously (i.v.) 5 or 30 min following the start of occlusion to groups of rabbits exposed to ischemia induced by temporary occlusion of the infrarenal aorta. The group P50 represents the duration of ischemia (min) associated with a 50% probability of resultant permanent paraplegia. Quantal analysis indicated that the P50 of the control group was 23.44 +/- 4.32 min. Using the RSCIM, neuroprotection is observed if a drug significantly prolongs the P50 compared to the control group. Treatment with ABHS (25 mg/kg) 5 min post-occlusion significantly (p &lt; 0.05) prolonged the P50 of the group to 49.18 +/- 10.44 min, an increase of 110%. The effect of ABHS was not durable following a single injection since a significant difference between the control and ABHS-treated groups was not measurable at 48 h. However, if ABHS was injected 5 min following the start of ischemia and again 24 h after ischemia, there was a persistent effect of the drug at 48 h. Moreover, ABHS also increased the tolerance to ischemia if administered 30 min following the start of occlusion. Our results suggest that neuroactive steroids such as ABHS, which are selective NMDA receptor antagonists, may have substantial therapeutic benefit for the treatment of ischemic injuries including spinal cord neurodegeneration and stroke.
Enduring forms of synaptic plasticity and memory require new protein synthesis, but little is known about the underlying regulatory mechanisms. Here, we investigate the role of MAPK signaling in these processes. Conditional expression of a dominant-negative form of MEK1 in the postnatal murine forebrain inhibited ERK activation and caused selective deficits in hippocampal memory retention and the translation-dependent, transcription-independent phase of hippocampal L-LTP. In hippocampal neurons, ERK inhibition blocked neuronal activity-induced translation as well as phosphorylation of the translation factors eIF4E, 4EBP1, and ribosomal protein S6. Correspondingly, protein synthesis and translation factor phosphorylation induced in control hippocampal slices by L-LTP-generating tetanization were significantly reduced in mutant slices. Translation factor phosphorylation induced in the control hippocampus by memory formation was similarly diminished in the mutant hippocampus. These results suggest a crucial role for translational control by MAPK signaling in long-lasting forms of synaptic plasticity and memory.
Ischemia-induced acidification of astrocytes or cardiac myocytes reduces intercellular communication by closing gap junction channels and subsequently internalizing gap junction proteins. To determine whether such coupling changes might be attributable to altered interactions between connexin43 (Cx43) and other proteins, we applied the nigericin/high K+ method to vary intracellular pH (pHi) in cultured cortical astrocytes. Intracellular acidification was accompanied by internalization of Cx43 with retention of Cx43 scaffolding protein Zonula Occludens-1 (ZO-1) at cell surfaces, suggesting that ZO-1 and Cx43 dissociate at low pHi. Coimmunoprecipitation studies revealed decreased binding of ZO-1 and increased binding of c-Src to Cx43 at low pHi. Resonant mirror spectroscopy was used to quantify binding of the SH3 domain of c-Src and the PDZ domains of ZO-1 to the carboxyl terminal domain of Cx43 (Cx43CT). Data indicate that the c-Src/Cx43CT interaction is highly pH dependent whereas the ZO-1/Cx43CT interaction is not. Moreover, binding of c-Src to Cx43CT prevented and reversed ZO-1/Cx43CT binding. We hypothesize that increased affinity of c-Src for Cx43 at low pHi aids in separation of Cx43 from ZO-1 and that this may facilitate internalization of Cx43. These data suggest that protracted acidification may remodel protein-protein interactions involving Cx43 and thus provide an important protective mechanism to limit lesion spread after ischemic injury.
The multipass membrane protein APH-1, found in the gamma-secretase complex together with presenilin, nicastrin, and PEN-2, is essential for Notch signaling in Caenorhabditis elegans embryos and is required for intramembrane proteolysis of Notch and beta-amyloid precursor protein in mammalian and Drosophila cells. In C. elegans, a mutation of the conserved transmembrane Gly123 in APH-1 (mutant or28) leads to a notch/glp-1 loss-of-function phenotype. In this study, we show that the corresponding mutation in mammalian APH-1aL (G122D) disrupts the physical interaction of APH-1aL with hypoglycosylated immature nicastrin and the presenilin holoprotein as well as with mature nicastrin, presenilin, and PEN-2. The G122D mutation also reduced gamma-secretase activity in intramembrane proteolysis of membrane-tethered Notch. Moreover, we found that the conserved transmembrane Gly122, Gly126, and Gly130 in the fourth transmembrane region of mammalian APH-1aL are part of the membrane helix-helix interaction GXXXG motif and are essential for the stable association of APH-1aL with presenilin, nicastrin, and PEN-2. These findings suggest that APH-1 plays a GXXXG-dependent scaffolding role in both the initial assembly and subsequent maturation and maintenance of the active gamma-secretase complex.
Opening of a ligand-gated ion channel is the step at which the binding of a neurotransmitter is transduced into the electrical signal by allowing ions to flow through the transmembrane channel, thereby altering the postsynaptic membrane potential. We report the kinetics for the opening of the GluR1Qflip channel, an alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptor subunit of the ionotropic glutamate receptors. Using a laser-pulse photolysis technique that permits glutamate to be liberated photolytically from gamma-O-(alpha-carboxy-2-nitrobenzyl)glutamate (caged glutamate) with a time constant of approximately 30 micros, we show that, after the binding of glutamate, the channel opened with a rate constant of (2.9 +/- 0.2) x 10(4) s(-1) and closed with a rate constant of (2.1 +/- 0.1) x 10(3) s(-1). The observed shortest rise time (20-80% of the receptor current response), i.e. the fastest time by which the GluR1Qflip channel can open, was predicted to be 35 micros. This value is three times shorter than those previously reported. The minimal kinetic mechanism for channel opening consists of binding of two glutamate molecules, with the channel-opening probability being 0.93 +/- 0.10. These findings identify GluR1Qflip as one of the temporally efficient receptors that transduce the binding of chemical signals (i.e. glutamate) into an electrical impulse.
Fast synaptic inhibition in the mammalian central nervous system is mediated primarily via activation of the gamma-aminobutyric acid type A receptor (GABAA-R). Upon agonist binding, the receptor undergoes a structural transition from the closed to the open state. This transition, known as gating, is thought to be associated with a sequence of conformational changes originating at the agonist-binding site, ultimately resulting in opening of the channel. Using site-directed mutagenesis and several different GABAA-R agonists, we identified a number of highly conserved charged residues in the GABAA-R beta2 subunit that appear to be involved in receptor activation. We then used charge reversal double mutants and disulfide trapping to investigate the interactions between these flexible loops within the beta2 subunit. The results suggest that interactions between an acidic residue in loop 7 (Asp146) and a basic residue in pre-transmembrane domain-1 (Lys215) are involved in coupling agonist binding to channel gating.
Calcium concentrations are strictly regulated in all biological cells, and one of the key molecules responsible for this regulation is the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor, which was known to form a homotetrameric Ca(2+) channel in the endoplasmic reticulum. The receptor is involved in neuronal transmission via Ca(2+) signaling and for many other functions that relate to morphological and physiological processes in living organisms. We analysed the three-dimensional structure of the ligand-free form of the receptor based on a single-particle technique using an originally developed electron microscope equipped with a helium-cooled specimen stage and an automatic particle picking system. We propose a model that explains the complex mechanism for the regulation of Ca(2+) release by co-agonists, Ca(2+), inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate based on the structure of multiple internal cavities and a porous balloon-shaped cytoplasmic domain containing a prominent L-shaped density which was assigned by the X-ray structure of the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate binding domain.
What is learned during perceptual learning? We address this question by analyzing how perceptual inefficiencies improve over the course of perceptual learning (Dosher &amp; Lu, 1998). Systematic measurements of human performance as a function of both the amount of external noise added to the signal stimulus and the length of training received by the observers enable us to track changes of the characteristics of the perceptual system (e.g., internal noise[s] and efficiency of the perceptual template) as perceptual learning progresses, and, therefore, identifies the mechanism(s) underlying the observed performance improvements. Two different observer models, the linear amplifier model (LAM) and the perceptual template model (PTM), however, have led to two very different theories of learning mechanisms. Here we demonstrate the failure of an LAM-based prediction - that the magnitude of learning-induced threshold reduction in high external noise must be less or equal to that in low external noise. In Experiment 1, perceptual learning of Gabor orientation identification in fovea showed substantial performance improvements only in high external noise but not in zero or low noise. The LAM-based model was &quot;forced&quot; to account for the data with a combination of improved calculation efficiency and (paradoxical) compensatory increases of the equivalent internal noise. Based on the PTM framework, we conclude that perceptual learning in this task involved learning how to better exclude external noise, reflecting retuning of the perceptual template. The data provide the first empirical demonstration of an isolable mechanism of perceptual learning. This learning completely transferred to a different visual scale in a second experiment.
This experiment investigated whether the emotional content of a stimulus could modulate its cognitive processing. Particularly, we focused on the influence of the valence dimension on the cognitive processing triggered by a non emotional oddball task. To this end, event-related potentials (ERPs) were recorded from 25 sites during a visual oddball paradigm. Three sets of pictures (unpleasant, neutral and pleasant) with low arousal values served as rare target items. Subjects were simply asked to realize a standard/target categorization task, irrespective of the picture valence. A temporal principal component analysis allowed us to identify several evoked components (i.e. P1, P2, N2, P3a and P3b). Emotional effects observed on P1, P2 and P3b showed that the valence content of the stimulus modulates the cognitive processes at several points in the information processing stream.
We found previously that aggregated insoluble tau protein in progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) brains exhibits a heterogeneous pattern that is not segregated by the type of clinical presentation. Here we have investigated tau isoform composition from 20 PSP cases and found marked variation between different brains. Cases were classified into three groups, each comprising essentially of (1) 1N4R; (2) 1N4R and 1N3R; or (3) 1N4R, 1N3R and 0N4R tau isoforms. There was also an absence of a simple relationship between isoform composition and the pattern of insoluble tau before dephosphorylation. We conclude that there is distinct molecular heterogeneity in the involvement of tau isoforms in the tau pathology in PSP.
Accumulating evidence has indicated that neurotrophin receptor trafficking plays an important role in neurotrophin-mediated signaling in developing as well as mature neurons. However, little is known about the molecular mechanisms and the components of neurotrophin receptor vesicular transport. This article will describe how neurotrophin receptors, Trk and p75 neurotrophin receptor (p75NTR), are intimately involved in the axonal transport process. In particular, the molecules that may direct Trk receptor trafficking in the axon will be discussed. Finally, potential mechanisms by which receptor-containing vesicles link to molecular cytoskeletal motors will be presented.
Neurons with long axons have a unique problem in generating signaling cascades that are able to reach the nucleus after receptor activation by neurotrophins at the nerve terminal. The straightforward concept of receptor binding and local generation of 2nd second messenger cascades is too simplistic. In this review we will outline a mechanism that would enable the complex signals generated at the nerve terminal to be conveyed intact to the cell body. There are three different sites in the neuron where 2nd messenger proteins can interact with the signaling complex and be activated. Signaling cascades are initiated both at the nerve terminal and at the cell body when 2nd messengers are recruited to the plasma membrane by activated receptors. After receptor-mediated endocytosis, 2nd messenger molecules continue to be recruited to the internalized vesicle; however, the mix of proteins differs in the nerve terminal and in the cell body. At the nerve terminal the activated pathways result in the formation of the neurotrophin signaling endosome, which includes molecules to be retrogradely transported to the cell body. When the retrograde neurotrophin signaling endosome reaches the cell body, it can recruit additional 2nd messenger molecules to finally generate the unique signal derived from the nerve terminal. We propose that the multivesicular body observed in vivo functions as an endosome carrier vehicle or retrosome. This retrosome enables the mix of signaling molecules recruited at the terminal to be transported intact to the cell body. This will allow the cell body to receive a snapshot of the events occurring at the nerve terminal at the time the retrosome is formed.
Cognitive models of attention propose that visual perception is a product of two stages of visual processing: early operations permit rapid initial categorization of the visual world, while later attention-demanding capacity-limited stages are necessary for the conscious report of the stimuli. Here we used the attentional blink paradigm and fMRI to neurally distinguish these two stages of vision. Subjects detected a face target and a scene target presented rapidly among distractors at fixation. Although the second, scene target frequently went undetected by the subjects, it nonetheless activated regions of the medial temporal cortex involved in high-level scene representations, the parahippocampal place area (PPA). This PPA activation was amplified when the stimulus was consciously perceived. By contrast, the frontal cortex was activated only when scenes were successfully reported. These results suggest that medial temporal cortex permits rapid categorization of the visual input, while the frontal cortex is part of a capacity-limited attentional bottleneck to conscious report.
Mice with gene-targeted deletion of the Kv1.3 channel were generated to study its role in olfactory function. Potassium currents in olfactory bulb mitral cells from Kv1.3 null mice have slow inactivation kinetics, a modified voltage dependence, and a dampened C-type inactivation and fail to be modulated by activators of receptor tyrosine signaling cascades. Kv1.3 deletion increases expression of scaffolding proteins that normally regulate the channel through protein-protein interactions. Kv1.3-/- mice have a 1,000- to 10,000-fold lower threshold for detection of odors and an increased ability to discriminate between odorants. In accordance with this heightened sense of smell, Kv1.3-/- mice have glomeruli or olfactory coding units that are smaller and more numerous than those of wild-type mice. These data suggest that Kv1.3 plays a far more reaching role in signal transduction, development, and olfactory coding than that of the classically defined role of a potassium channel-to shape excitability by influencing membrane potential.
Nitric oxide (NO) and zinc (Zn2+) are implicated in the pathogenesis of cerebral ischemia and neurodegenerative diseases. However, their relationship and the molecular mechanism of their neurotoxic effects remain unclear. Here we show that addition of exogenous NO or NMDA (to increase endogenous NO) leads to peroxynitrite (ONOO-) formation and consequent Zn2+ release from intracellular stores in cerebrocortical neurons. Free Zn2+ in turn induces respiratory block, mitochondrial permeability transition (mPT), cytochrome c release, generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS), and p38 MAP kinase activation. This pathway leads to caspase-independent K+ efflux with cell volume loss and apoptotic-like death. Moreover, Zn2+ chelators, ROS scavengers, Bcl-xL, dominant-interfering p38, or K+ channel blockers all attenuate NO-induced K+ efflux, cell volume loss, and neuronal apoptosis. Thus, these data establish a new form of crosstalk between NO and Zn2+ apoptotic signal transduction pathways that may contribute to neurodegeneration.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is an inflammatory demyelinating disease of the central nervous system (CNS) that results in motor and sensory deficits. Although MS and its animal model, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), are thought to be T cell-mediated diseases, the mechanisms underlying the lesions in the CNS are not fully understood. We propose that a strong candidate as a central mediator in evoking the complex pathological changes seen in MS and EAE is the enzyme cytosolic phospholipase A2 (cPLA2). One of the metabolic products of this enzyme is pro-inflammatory, while the other induces myelin breakdown, demyelination, and chemokine/cytokine expression. We provide evidence that cPLA2 is highly expressed in EAE lesions and show that blocking this enzyme leads to a remarkable reduction in the onset and progression of EAE.
Central pattern generators (CPGs) are localized neuronal networks that have the ability to produce rhythmic movements even in the absence of movement-related sensory feedback. They are found in all animals, including man, and serve as informative model systems for understanding how neuronal networks produce behavior. Traditionally, CPGs have been investigated with electrophysiological techniques. Here we review recent molecular and genetic approaches for dissecting the organization and development of CPGs.
The mammalian rod transfers a binary signal, the capture of 0 or 1 photon. In this issue of Neuron, Sampath and Rieke show in mouse that the rod's tonic exocytosis in darkness completely saturates a G protein cascade to close nearly all postsynaptic channels. A full-sized photon event supresses exocytosis sufficiently to allow approximately 30 postsynaptic channels to open simultaneously. Thus, the synapse behaves like a digital gate, whose hallmark is reliability and resistance to noise.
With the onset of puberty, play fighting in rats decreases in frequency and the tactics of attack and defense that are used are rougher. Previous studies have shown that the changes in the frequency of play and in the use of defensive tactics arise independently of social experience. Furthermore, while the former involves subcortical regulation, the latter depends on cortical mechanisms. In this study, the possible mechanisms regulating the developmental changes in the tactics of attack were examined. Two experiments were conducted using male rats. In the first study, rats reared in isolation from weaning were compared to rats reared in pairs, and were tested in the juvenile and early post-pubertal phases (30 and 60 days postnatally). In the second experiment, rats with their cortex removed shortly after birth were compared to sham-treated controls, and were tested in pairs at both the juvenile and early adult phases (30 and 90 days). Two measures of 'roughness,' derived from previous studies, were measured. Results showed that isolation-reared rats had the typical age-related changes in roughness of attack, whereas decorticated rats failed to show this age-related modulation, maintaining, or even exaggerating, the juvenile-typical pattern of attack. These findings suggest that social experience is not needed for this developmental change to occur, and that an intact cortex is needed to regulate this change in behavior.
The ventral premotor area (F5) is part of the cortical circuit controlling visuomotor grasp. F5 could influence hand motor function through at least two pathways: corticospinal projections and corticocortical projections to primary motor cortex (M1). We found that stimulation of macaque F5, which by itself evoked little or no detectable corticospinal output, could produce a robust modulation of motor outputs from M1. Arrays of fine microwires were implanted in F5 and M1. During terminal experiments under chloralose anesthesia, single stimuli delivered to M1 electrodes evoked direct (D) and indirect (I1,I2, and I3) corticospinal volleys. In contrast, single F5 shocks were ineffective; double shocks (3 msec separation) evoked small I waves but no D wave. However, when the test (T) M1 shock was conditioned (C) by single or double F5 shocks, there was strong facilitation of I2 and I3 waves from M1, with C-T intervals of &lt;1 msec. Intracellular recordings from 79 arm and hand motoneurons (MNs) revealed no postsynaptic effects from single F5 shocks. In contrast, these stimuli produced a robust facilitation of I2 and I3 EPSPs evoked from M1 (60% of MNs); this was particularly marked in hand muscle MNs (92%). Muscimol injection in M1 reduced I waves from F5 and abolished the F5-induced facilitation of late I waves from M1, and of EPSPs associated with them. Thus, some motor effects evoked from F5 may be mediated by corticocortical inputs to M1 impinging on interneurons generating late corticospinal I waves. Similar mechanisms may allow F5 to modulate grasp-related outputs from M1.
Glomeruli, the initial sites of synaptic processing in the olfactory system, contain at least three types of neurons collectively referred to as juxtaglomerular (JG) neurons. The role of JG neurons in odor processing is poorly understood. We investigated the morphology, spontaneous, and sensory-evoked activity of one class of JG neurons, external tufted (ET) cells, using whole-cell patch-clamp and extracellular recordings in rat olfactory bulb slices. ET cells have extensive dendrites that ramify within a single glomerulus or, rarely, in two adjacent glomeruli. All ET neurons exhibit spontaneous rhythmic bursts of action potentials (approximately 1-8 bursts/sec). Bursting is intrinsically generated; bursting persisted and became more regular in the presence of ionotropic glutamate and GABA receptor antagonists. Burst frequency is voltage dependent; frequency increased at membrane potentials depolarized relative to rest and decreased during membrane potential hyperpolarization. Spontaneous bursting persisted in blockers of calcium channels that eliminated low-threshold calcium spikes (LTS) in ET cells. ET cells have a persistent sodium current available at membrane potentials that generate spontaneous bursting. Internal perfusion with a fast sodium channel blocker eliminated spontaneous bursting but did not block the LTS. These results suggest that persistent sodium channels are essential for spontaneous burst generation in ET cells. ET cell bursts were entrained to ON stimuli delivered over the range of theta frequencies. Thus, ET cells appear to be tuned to the frequency of sniffing.
An internal model is a neural mechanism that can mimic the input-output properties of a controlled object such as a tool. Recent research interests have moved on to how multiple internal models are learned and switched under a given context of behavior. Two representative computational models for task switching propose distinct neural mechanisms, thus predicting different brain activity patterns in the switching of internal models. In one model, called the mixture-of-experts architecture, switching is commanded by a single executive called a &quot;gating network,&quot; which is different from the internal models. In the other model, called the MOSAIC (MOdular Selection And Identification for Control), the internal models themselves play crucial roles in switching. Consequently, the mixture-of-experts model predicts that neural activities related to switching and internal models can be temporally and spatially segregated, whereas the MOSAIC model predicts that they are closely intermingled. Here, we directly examined the two predictions by analyzing functional magnetic resonance imaging activities during the switching of one common tool (an ordinary computer mouse) and two novel tools: a rotated mouse, the cursor of which appears in a rotated position, and a velocity mouse, the cursor velocity of which is proportional to the mouse position. The switching and internal model activities temporally and spatially overlapped each other in the cerebellum and in the parietal cortex, whereas the overlap was very small in the frontal cortex. These results suggest that switching mechanisms in the frontal cortex can be explained by the mixture-of-experts architecture, whereas those in the cerebellum and the parietal cortex are explained by the MOSAIC model.
Functional interactions between dopamine D1-like receptors and NMDA subtype glutamate receptors have been implicated in the maintenance of normal brain activity and neurological dysfunction. Although modulation of NMDA receptor functions by D1 receptor activation has been the subject of extensive investigation, little is known as to how the activation of NMDA receptors alters D1 function. Here we report that NMDA receptors regulate D1 receptor function via a direct protein-protein interaction mediated by the carboxyl tail regions of both receptors. In both cotransfected cells and cultured hippocampal neurons the activation of NMDA receptors increases the number of D1 receptors on the plasma membrane surface and enhances D1 receptor-mediated cAMP accumulation via a SNARE-dependent mechanism. Furthermore, overexpression of mini-genes encoding either NR1 or D1 carboxyl tail fragments disrupts the D1-NR1 direct protein-protein interaction and abolishes NMDA-induced changes in both D1 cell surface expression and D1-mediated cAMP accumulation. Our results demonstrate that the D1-NR1 physical interaction enables NMDA receptors to increase plasma membrane insertion of D1 receptors and provides a novel mechanism by which the activation of NMDA receptors upregulates D1 receptor function. Understanding the molecular mechanisms by which D1 and NMDA receptors functionally interact may provide insight toward elucidating the molecular neurobiological mechanisms involved in many neuropsychiatric illnesses, such as schizophrenia.
Dopaminergic transmission in the nucleus accumbens has been proposed to modulate the effects of converging excitatory inputs from the cortex, hippocampus, and amygdala. Here, we used in vivo intracellular recording in anesthetized rats to examine the response of nucleus accumbens neurons to stimulation of the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and the ventral tegmental area (VTA). The EPSP elicited in accumbens neurons by PFC stimulation was attenuated by VTA train stimulation in a pattern mimicking dopamine cell burst firing. PFC-elicited EPSPs were smaller in amplitude and faster to decay after VTA stimulation. These changes could not be explained by membrane depolarization alone, because EPSPs evoked during the sustained depolarization after VTA stimulation were significantly smaller than EPSPs evoked during spontaneously occurring up states. Furthermore, no attenuation of PFC-elicited responses was observed during depolarization produced by positive current injection through the recording electrode. Administration of a D1 antagonist (SCH 23390; 0.5 mg/kg, i.p.) had no effect on the VTA reduction of PFC-elicited responses, whereas administration of a D2 antagonist (eticlopride; 0.5 mg/kg, i.p.) reversed the reduction of PFC inputs when the analysis was limited to comparisons with spontaneous up states. These results suggest that the ability of PFC inputs to drive accumbens neurons is dampened by dopamine acting primarily at D2 receptors. Along with previous reports of dopaminergic attenuation of limbic afferents to the accumbens, these findings support the hypothesis that dopamine mediates the selection and integration of excitatory inputs and thus shapes information processing in accumbens output neurons.
The conduction of acid-evoked currents in central and sensory neurons is now primarily attributed to a family of proteins called acid-sensing ion channels (ASICs). In peripheral neurons, their physiological function has been linked to nociception, mechanoreception, and taste transduction; however, their role in the CNS remains unclear. This study describes the discovery of a proton-gated current in rat retinal ganglion cells termed I(Na(H+)), which also appears to be mediated by ASICs. RT-PCR confirmed the presence of ASIC mRNA (subunits la, 2a, 2b, 3, and 4) in the rat retina. Electrophysiological investigation showed that all retinal ganglion cells respond to rapid extracellular acidification with the activation of a transient Na+ current, the size of which increases with increasing acidification between pH 6.5 and pH 3.0. I(Na(H+)) desensitizes completely in the continued presence of acid, its current-voltage relationship is linear and its reversal potential shifts with E(Na). I(Na(H+)) is reversibly inhibited by amiloride (IC(50), 188 microm) but is resistant to block by TTX (0.5 microm), Cd2+ (100 microm), procaine (10 mm), and is not activated by capsaicin (0.5 microm). I(Na(H+)) is not potentiated by Zn2+ (300 microm) or Phe-Met-Arg-Phe-amide (50microm) but is inhibited by neuropeptide-FF (50microm). Acute application of pH 6.5 to retinal ganglion cells causes sustained depolarization and repetitive firing similar to the trains of action potentials normally associated with current injection into these cells. The presence of a proton-gated current in the neural retina suggests that ASICs may have a more diverse role in the CNS.
In mammalian cochlea, hair cell death is irreversible. New work shows that the stem cells might exist in the inner ear of the mouse, opening a door to the possibility of repopulating damaged sensory epithelia in humans.
Motor skills, once learned, are often retained over a long period of time. However, such learning first undergoes a period of consolidation after practice. During this time, the motor memory is susceptible to being disrupted by the performance of another motor-learning task. Recently, it was shown that repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) over the primary motor cortex could disrupt the retention of a newly learned ballistic task in which subjects had to oppose their index finger and thumb as rapidly as possible. Here we investigate whether the motor cortex is similarly involved during the consolidation that follows learning novel dynamics. We applied rTMS to primary motor cortex shortly after subjects had either learned to compensate for a dynamic force field applied to their index finger or learned a ballistic finger abduction task. rTMS severely degraded the retention of the learning for the ballistic task but had no effect on retention of the dynamic force-field learning. This suggests that, unlike learning of simple ballistic skills, learning of dynamics may be stored in a more distributed manner, possibly outside the primary motor cortex.
The nucleus isthmi pars magnocellularis (Imc) and pars parvocellularis (Ipc) influence the receptive field structure of neurons in the optic tectum (TeO). To understand better the anatomical substrate of isthmotectal interactions, neuronal morphology and connections of Imc were examined in chicks (Gallus gallus). Cholera toxin B injection into TeO demonstrated a coarse topographical projection from TeO upon Imc. Retrogradely labeled neurons were scattered throughout Imc and in low density within the zone of anterogradely labeled terminals, suggesting a heterotopic projection from Imc upon TeO. This organization differed from the precise homotopic reciprocal connections of Ipc and the nucleus isthmi pars semilunaris (SLu) with TeO. By using slice preparations, extracellular biotinylated dextran amine injections demonstrated a dense projection from most neurons in Imc upon both Ipc and SLu. Intracellular filling of Imc neurons with biocytin revealed two cell types. The most common, Imc-Is, formed a widely ramifying axonal field in both Ipc and SLu, without obvious topography. A less frequently observed cell type, Imc-Te, formed a widely ramifying terminal field in layers 10-12 of TeO. No neurons were found to project upon both Ipc/SLu and TeO. Both types possessed local axon collaterals and flat dendritic fields oriented parallel to the long axis of Imc. Imc neurons contain glutamic acid decarboxylase, which is consistent with Imc participating in center-surround or other wide-field inhibitory isthmotectal interactions. The laminar and columnar pattern of isthmotectal terminals also suggests a means of interacting with multiple tectofugal pathways, including the stratified subpopulations of tectorotundal neurons participating in motion detection.
Stereotypic motor behavior is a widespread phenomenon of many neurologic and psychiatric disorders. Studies on the mechanisms controlling motor stereotypies have focused on the role of dopamine in modulating the activity of basal ganglia neuronal circuits, and recent results demonstrated that stereotypic motor responses characteristic of psychomotor stimulant sensitization correlate with an enhanced activation of neurons located in striatal striosomes that substantially exceeds that of the surrounding matrix. The present study tested whether predominant striosomal activation is a general predictor for stereotypy. Wild-type and dopamine D(2) and D(3) receptor knockout mice were treated either three times with methamphetamine (METH; 3 x 5 mg/kg every 2 hours) or once with a full D(1) agonist. Depending on the genotype, both treatments elicit the same focused stereotypy (taffy pulling). Repeated METH-treatment elicits intense stereotypy in wild-type and D(3) mutants but not in D(2) single and D(2)/D(3) double mutants. The stereotypic response of wild-type and D(3) mutants correlates with a predominant activation of neurons located in striosomes. No striosomal predominance is detected in METH-treated D(2) single and D(2)/D(3) double mutants. In contrast, D(2) single and D(2)/D(3) double mutants exhibited the most severe stereotypic response to D(1)-agonist treatment. However, this treatment did not result in enhanced striosomal activation. Thus, whereas the expression of stereotypy in response to repeated METH treatment requires D(2) receptor expression, D(2) receptor expression diminishes stereotypic responses to an acute dose of a D(1) agonist. Enhanced striosomal activation, however, is a reliable indicator of D(1)- and D(2)-receptor coactivation but not a predictor for repetitive motor behavior in general.
Histamine is a neurotransmitter with actions throughout the nervous system of vertebrates and invertebrates. Nevertheless, the actions of only a few identified histamine-containing neurons have been characterized. Here, we present the actions of a histaminergic projection neuron on the rhythmically active pyloric and gastric mill circuits within the stomatogastric ganglion (STG) of the crab Cancer borealis. An antiserum generated against histamine labeled profiles throughout the C. borealis stomatogastric nervous system. Labeling occurred in several somata and neuropil within the paired commissural ganglia as well as in neuropil within the STG and at the junction of the superior oesophageal and stomatogastric nerves. The source of all histamine-like immunolabeling in the STG neuropil was one pair of neuronal somata, the previously identified inferior ventricular (IV) neurons, located in the supraoesophageal ganglion. These neurons also exhibited FLRFamide-like immunoreactivity. Activation of the IV neurons in the crab inhibited some pyloric and gastric mill neurons and, with inputs from the commissural ganglia eliminated, terminated both rhythms. Focal application of histamine had comparable effects. The actions of both applied histamine and IV neuron stimulation were blocked, reversibly, by the histamine type-2 receptor antagonist cimetidine. With the commissural ganglia connected to the STG, IV neuron stimulation elicited a longer-latency activation of commissural projection neurons which in turn modified the pyloric rhythm and activated the gastric mill rhythm. These results support the hypothesis that the histaminergic/peptidergic IV neurons are projection neurons with direct and indirect actions on the STG circuits of the crab C. borealis.

Liver cirrhosis and other chronic hepatic diseases are followed in a subset of affected patients by gas exchange abnormalities resulting from a syndrome called hepatopulmonary syndrome (HPS). The structural basis of this clinical entity is an alteration of pulmonary vasculature resulting in abnormal vasodilatation and mismatching of ventilation and perfusion of the lung. Dilatation of the capillary bed near the gas exchange area is the most important factor implicated; it precludes O2 molecules diffusing to the centrum of the dilated vessels to oxygenate venous blood. Contrast (microbubbles) echocardiography and lung perfusion scan are, respectively, the screening tests with the highest sensitivity and specificity for HPS diagnosis. Because of the high morbidity and mortality of HPS, clinicians have been trying to understand the pathophysiology of pulmonary vasodilatation in the hope that the process can be reversed pharmacologically or surgically. An imbalance between production and clearance of vasoactive circulating substances has been implicated in the pathogenesis of HPS with glucagon and nitric oxide among the principal responsible factors. To date various molecules have been implicated for therapy but without definitive positive results. Liver transplantation remains the only real therapy for HPS, and resolution of gas exchange defects outlines the possible functional reversible nature of vascular abnormalities of this syndrome. The need to perform surgery under general anesthesia for hepatic and extrahepatic procedures in patients with HPS is followed by an increased peri-operative risk. The authors emphasize the role of pre-operative clinical evaluation for proper patient management during the peri-operative period.

In a previous study we found that nine of 47 siblings to multiple sclerosis (MS) patients with a normal neurological examination carry an intrathecal oligoclonal immunopathy with limited specificity, a condition we termed MS immunopathic trait. The purpose of this study is to further characterize the MS immunopathic trait phenotype. We found that the neurofilament light protein (NFL) and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAp) concentrations were increased in the group of patients with clinically definite MS (n = 47) in latent or slowly progressive phases. There was no increase in GFAp and NFL in cerebrospinal fluid in the healthy siblings of MS patients (n = 47), nor in the subgroup of these siblings with MS immunopathic trait (n = 9) compared with a group of healthy control subjects (n = 50). Thus, there was no indication of presymptomatic CNS parenchymal involvement in MS immunopathic trait.


The term &quot;executive functions&quot; refers to a range of cognitive processes, their common feature being the coordination of information processing and action control. Cortico-subcortical circuits which connect the prefrontal cortex (PFC), the basal ganglia and the cerebellum via the thalamus are believed to serve as neuroanatomical substrates of executive processing. This paper focuses on information processing related to executive functions by the PFC and related subcortical regions. Findings are mainly derived from neuropsychological investigations of brain-damaged patients but also from imaging studies in healthy subjects. There is evidence for subtle differences between these regions with respect to the cognitive mechanisms contributing to inhibition of habitual responses, task management/multitasking and set shifting, although the data base is sparse so far.
This article represents the proceedings of a symposium at the 2003 Research Society on Alcoholism meeting in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. The organizer was Karl J. Buck, and the chairperson was Mark S. Brodie. The presentations were (1) The Multiple PDZ Domain Protein May Mediate Genetic Differences in Ethanol Withdrawal Severity Via Interaction With 5-HT2 Receptors, by Matthew T. Reilly and Kari J. Buck; (2) The Ionic Mechanism of Serotonin Potentiation of Ethanol Excitation of Ventral Tegmental Area Neurons, by Mark S. Brodie; and (3) 5-HT(2C) Receptor Agonists in the Discriminative Stimulus Effects of Ethanol, by Laura M. Rogers, Ken Szeliga, and Kathleen Grant.
Recently, there have been a number of studies demonstrating that overexpression of molecules in skeletal muscle can inhibit or ameliorate aspects of muscular dystrophy in the mdx mouse, a model for Duchenne muscular dystrophy. Several such studies involve molecules that increase the expression of dystroglycan, an important component of the dystrophin-glycoprotein complex. To test whether dystroglycan itself inhibits muscular dystrophy in mdx mice, we created dystroglycan transgenic mdx mice (DG/mdx). The alpha and beta chains of dystroglycan were highly overexpressed along the sarcolemmal membrane in most DG/mdx muscles. Increased dystroglycan expression, however, did not correlate with increased expression of utrophin or sarcoglycans, but rather caused their decreased expression. In addition, the percentage of centrally located myofiber nuclei and the level of serum creatine kinase activity were not decreased in DG/mdx mice relative to mdx animals. Therefore, dystroglycan overexpression does not cause the concomitant overexpression of a utrophin-glycoprotein complex in mdx muscles and has no effect on the development of muscle pathology associated with muscular dystrophy.
Schizophrenia is a serious mental illness that causes major disability and psychosocial impairment. Recent advances in the neurosciences are prompting considerations of schizophrenia from a preventive perspective. An overview of the literature is provided on two important aspects of the development of a prevention orientation in schizophrenia research: elucidation of potential causal risk factors for schizophrenia and research on risk markers. Risk factors for schizophrenia include, but are not limited to, family history, older paternal age, velo-cardio-facial syndrome, maternal infections during pregnancy, pregnancy and delivery complications, and social adjustment difficulties in childhood and adolescence. Potential risk markers include structural brain pathology, minor physical anomalies and dermatoglyphic abnormalities, neurocognitive deficits, eye-tracking dysfunction, certain electrophysiologic findings, and olfactory identification deficits. Several early efforts at indicated preventive interventions targeting individuals at particularly high risk for developing the disorder are discussed. The preventive medicine and public health disciplines may have a role in future research and interventions that apply a preventive perspective to schizophrenia and other mental illnesses. Like any other chronic medical condition, schizophrenia can be considered from a preventive perspective.
We report a method for taking saliva samples from unrestrained, captive marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) to assess levels of free cortisol. Saliva samples can be obtained reliably, without any habituation, by encouraging the marmosets to lick and chew a cotton-wool bud coated in banana. Saliva is thus left on the bud. We also tested sweetened fruit-drink crystals and a number of other substances, but none of these attracted all of the marmosets, and even flavors that were effective once soon lost their attraction. The presence of banana in the samples collected was found to lower the measured concentration of cortisol; however, as shown in samples taken with and without the banana coating on the bud, it did so in a linear and consistent way, and did not vary significantly among subjects. Therefore, a simple conversion factor could be applied to correct for the presence of banana. A first experiment showed that the marmosets exhibited a rise in salivary cortisol levels in response to social isolation. A second experiment showed elevation of cortisol during a period when the marmosets were disturbed by increased human activity and noise levels in the building in which they were housed. Hence, this method of saliva sampling is a convenient, noninvasive means of assessing cortisol levels in marmosets.

Currently, definite peripheral markers for the in vivo diagnosis of sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) are not available. Here, we report the presence of pathological prion protein in the olfactory mucosa of a case with sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. Prion protein immunoreactivity was detected in an olfactory biopsy performed 45 days after the disease onset, suggesting that the involvement of olfactory epithelium is an early event in sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.

Genomic triplication of the alpha-synuclein gene recently has been associated with familial Parkinson's disease in the Spellman-Muenter kindred. Here, we present an independent family, of Swedish-American descent, with hereditary early-onset parkinsonism with dementia due to alpha-synuclein triplication. Brain tissue available from affected individuals in both kindreds provided the opportunity to compare their clinical, pathological, and biochemical phenotypes. Of note, studies of brain mRNA and soluble protein levels demonstrate a doubling of alpha-synuclein expression, consistent with molecular genetic data. Pathologically, cornu ammonis 2/3 hippocampal neuronal loss appears to be a defining feature of this form of inherited parkinsonism. The profound implications of alpha-synuclein overexpression for idiopathic synucleinopathies are discussed.
Familial parkinsonism and dementia with cortical and subcortical Lewy bodies is uncommon, and no genetic defect has been reported in the previously described sibships. We present a Spanish family with autosomal dominant parkinsonism, dementia, and visual hallucinations of variable severity. The postmortem examination showed atrophy of the substantia nigra, lack of Alzheimer pathology, and numerous Lewy bodies which were immunoreactive to alpha-synuclein and ubiquitin in cortical and subcortical areas. Sequencing of the alpha-synuclein gene showed a novel, nonconservative E46K mutation in heterozygosis. The E46K mutation was present in all affected family members and in three young asymptomatic subjects, but it was absent in healthy and pathological controls. The novel mutation, that substitutes a dicarboxylic amino acid, glutamic acid, with a basic amino acid such as lysine in a much conserved area of the protein, is likely to produce severe disturbance of protein function. Our data show that, in addition to the previously described hereditary alpha-synucleinopathies, dementia with Lewy bodies is related to mutation of alpha-synuclein.
In Stanley Kubrick's movie Dr Strangelove, the main character is described as &quot;erratic&quot; and displays a bizarre movement disorder. His right hand seems to be driven by a will of its own, at times clutching his own throat and at other times raising into a Nazi salute. Dr Strangelove must try to restrain this wayward limb with his left hand. Bizarre as this fictional character is, a similar movement disorder can occur in neurologic disease. The complex phenomenon associated with this disorder falls under the rubric of alien hand syndrome. This syndrome is characterized by a limb that seems to perform meaningful acts without being guided by the intention of the patient. Patients find themselves unable to stop the alien limb from reaching and grabbing objects, and they may be unable to release these grasped objects without using their other hand to pry open their fingers. These patients frequently express astonishment and frustration at the errant limb. They experience it as being controlled by an external agent and often refer to it in the third person. This article outlines the origins of the terminology used in describing this syndrome, early observations, and studies regarding its functional neuroanatomy.

In this study, we analyzed heart rate variability during sexual activity using complex demodulation, which is a useful technique to study continuous changes in different frequency bands over short periods of time. Complex demodulation has the advantage of having higher time resolution compared to spectral analysis. We quantified the low frequency (LF: 0.04-0.15 Hz) and high frequency (HF: 0.15-0.5 Hz) amplitudes, and the LF/HF ratio before, during, and after the occurrence of orgasm. LF power is dually mediated by cardiac sympathetic and parasympathetic systems while HF power is mainly influenced by cardiac vagal function. We found a significant increase of cardiac sympathovagal interaction (LF/HF ratios) during the phase of orgasm. These findings are discussed in light of normal sexual physiology and the effect of sex on cardiac autonomic function in patients with heart disease, such as myocardial infarction.
The understanding and the prediction of the clinical outcomes of focal or degenerative cerebral lesions, as well as the assessment of rehabilitation procedures, necessitate knowing the cerebral substratum of cognitive or sensorimotor functions. This is achieved by activation studies, where subjects are asked to perform a specific task while data of their brain functioning are obtained through functional neuroimaging techniques. Such studies, as well as animal experiments, have shown that sensorimotor or cognitive functions are the offspring of the activity of large-scale networks of anatomically connected cerebral regions. However, no one-to-one correspondence between activated networks adn functions can be found. Our research aims at understanding how the activation of large-scale networks derives from cerebral information processing mechanisms, which can only explain apparently conflicting activation data. Our work falls at the crossroads of neuroimaging interpretation techniques and computational neuroscience. Since knowledge in cognitive neuroscience is permanently evolving, our research aims more precisely at defining a new modeling formalism and at building a flexible simulator, allowing a quick implementation of the models, for a better interpretation of cerebral functional images. It also aims at providing plausible models, at eht level of large-scale networks, of cerebral information processing mechanisms in humans. In this paper, we propose a formalism, based on dynamic Bayesian networks (DBNs), that respects the following constraints: an oriented, networks architecture, whose nodes (the cerebral structures) can all be different, the implementation of causality--the activation of the structure is caused by upstream nodes' activation--the explicit representation of different time scales (from 1 ms for the cerebral activity to many seconds for a PET scan image acquisition), the representation of cerebral information at the integrated level of neuronal populations, the imprecision of functional neuroimaging data, the nonlinearity and the uncertainty in cerebral mechanisms, and brain's plasticity (learning, reorganization, modulation). One of the main problems, nonlinearity, has been tackled thanks to new extensions of the Kalman filter. The capabilities of the formalism's current version are illustrated by the modeling of a phoneme categorization process, explaining the different cerebral activations in normal and dyslexic subjects.
A basic issue in neurosciences is to look for possible relationships between brain architecture and cognitive models. The lack of architectural information in magnetic resonance images, however, has led the neuroimaging community to develop brain mapping strategies based on various coordinate systems without accurate architectural content. Therefore, the relationships between architectural and functional brain organizations are difficult to study when analyzing neuroimaging experiments. This paper advocates that the design of new brain image analysis methods inspired by the structural strategies often used in computer vision may provide better ways to address these relationships. The key point underlying this new framework is the conversion of the raw images into structural representations before analysis. These representations are made up of data-driven elementary features like activated clusters, cortical folds or fiber bundles. Two classes of methods are introduced. Inference of structural models via matching across a set of individuals is described first. This inference problem is illustrated by the group analysis of functional statistical parametric maps (SPMs). Then, the matching of new individual data with a priori known structural models is described, using the recognition of the cortical sulci as a prototypical example.
The authors compared the effects of pharmacological inactivation of the dorsal hippocampus (DH) or ventral hippocampus (VH) on Pavlovian fear conditioning in rats. Freezing behavior served as the measure of fear. Pretraining infusions of muscimol, a GABAA receptor agonist, into the VH disrupted auditory, but not contextual, fear conditioning; DH infusions did not affect fear conditioning. Pretesting inactivation of the VH or DH did not affect the expression of conditional freezing. Pretraining electrolytic lesions of the VH reproduced the effects of muscimol infusions, whereas posttraining VH lesions disrupted both auditory and contextual freezing. Hence, neurons in the VH are importantly involved in the acquisition of auditory fear conditioning and the expression of auditory and contextual fear under some conditions.
Fos, the protein product of the immediate early gene c-fos, was used to map functional circuitry underlying contextual conditioned fear. Male rats were given footshocks in a distinctive context and later tested using freezing as the behavioral measure and compared with no-shock and no-retention-test control groups. An increased number of Fos-immunoreactive neurons was found in the lateral part of the central nucleus and in the anterior basolateral and lateral amygdalar nuclei in the brains of the conditioned-fear group compared with controls. Further, a greater number of Fos-immunoreactive neurons was observed in the right central and anterior basolateral nuclei compared with the number of labeled neurons in these structures on the left.
Although the dopaminergic pharmacology of the D1 receptor full agonists, dinapsoline, dihydrexidine and the prodrug ABT-431 have been studied, no information is available on the ability of these agonists to substitute for the D1 agonist SKF 38393 in rats trained to discriminate this compound from vehicle. The present study was designed to characterize the potential D1 discriminative stimulus effects of these compounds. The selective dopamine D1-receptor agonists dihydrexidine [(+/-)-trans-10,11-dihydroxy-5,6,6a,7,8,12b-hexahydrobenzo[a] phenanthridine hydrochloride], ABT-431 [(-)-trans-9,10-diacetyloxy-2-propyl-4,5,5a,6,7,11b-hexahydro-3-thia-5-azacyclopent-1-ena[c]phenanthrene hydrochloride], the diacetyl prodrug derivative of A-86929, and dinapsoline [9-dihydroxy-2,3,7,11b-tetrahydro-1H-naph[1,2,3-de]isoquinoline] were studied in rats trained to discriminate racemic SKF 38393 [(+/-)-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-(1H)-3-benzazepine-7,8-diol], a selective D1 receptor partial agonist from vehicle. All of the agonists substituted fully for the discriminative stimulus effects of SKF 38393. The rank order of potency for substitution was ABT-431 &gt; dinapsoline &gt; dihydrexidine &gt; SKF 38393. The D1 receptor antagonist, SCH 23390, blocked the discriminative stimulus effects of SKF 38393. The D3/D2-receptor agonist PD 128,907 [S(+)-(4aR,10bR)-3,4,4a,10b-tetrahydro-4-propyl-2H,5H-[1]-benzopyrano[4,3-b]-1,4-oxazin-9-ol] did not substitute up to doses that produced profound rate-suppressant effects. Thus, consistent with their D1 receptor pharmacology, the full D1-receptor agonists substituted completely for the discriminative stimulus of SKF 38393.


Williams Syndrome is a developmental disorder that is characterized by cardiovascular problems, particular facial features and several typical behavioral and neurological abnormalities. In Williams Syndrome patients, a heterozygous deletion is present of a region on chromosome 7q11.23 (the Williams Syndrome critical region), which spans approximately 20 genes. Two of these genes encode proteins that regulate dynamic aspects of the cytoskeleton of the cell, either via the actin filament system (LIM kinase 1, or LIMK1), or through the microtubule network (cytoplasmic linker protein of 115 kDa, or CLIP-115). The recent findings that knockout mice lacking LIMK1 or CLIP-115 have distinct neurological and behavioural phenotypes, indicates that cytoskeletal defects might play a role in the development of neurological symptoms in Williams Syndrome patients. In this review, we discuss the properties of LIMK and CLIP family proteins, their function in the regulation of the actin and microtubule cytoskeletal systems, respectively, and the relationship with neurodevelopmental aspects of Williams Syndrome.
It is known that the springlike properties of muscles provide automatic load compensation during weight bearing. How crucial is sensory control of the motor output given these basic properties of the locomotor system? To address this question, a neuromuscular model was used to test two hypotheses. (1) Stretch reflexes are too weak and too delayed to contribute significantly to weight-bearing. (2) The important contributions of sensory input involve state-dependent processing. We constructed a two-legged planar locomotor model with 9 segments, driven by 12 musculotendon actuators with Hill-type force-velocity and monotonic force-length properties. Electromyographic (EMG) profiles of the simulated muscle groups during slow level walking served as actuator activation functions. Spindle Ia and tendon organ Ib sensory inputs were represented by transfer functions with a latency of 35 ms, contributing 30% to the net EMG profile and gated to be active only when the receptor-bearing muscles were contracting. Locomotor stability was assessed by parametric variations of actuator maximum forces during locomotion in open-loop (&quot;deafferented&quot;) trials and in trials with feedback control based on either sensory-evoked stretch reflexes or finite-state rules. We arrived at the following conclusions. (1) In the absence of sensory control, the intrinsic stiffness of limb muscles driven by a stereotyped rhythmical pattern can produce surprisingly stable gait. (2) When the level of central activity is low, the contribution of stretch reflexes to load compensation can be crucial. However, when central activity provides adequate load compensation, the contribution of stretch reflexes is less significant. (3) Finite-state control can greatly extend the adaptive capability of the locomotor system.

Recognition Potential is an electrophysiological response of the brain that is sensitive to semantic aspects of stimuli. According to its peak values (about 250ms), Recognition Potential appears as a good candidate to reflect lexical selection processes. Consequently, Recognition Potential might be sensitive to contextual information during reading a sentence. In present study, the standard procedures to improve the visibility of Recognition Potential (Rapid Stream Stimulation paradigm) were used in a task in which sentence context was crucial. A parieto-occipital Recognition Potential was observed to peak about 264ms after stimulus onset, followed by a centro-parietal N400 peaking at about 450ms. Recognition Potential was affected by contextual information though, contrary to N400, presenting larger amplitude to contextually congruous words. These results support the assumption that Recognition Potential may reflect lexical selection processes, representing also evidence of context effects on ERP around 250ms after stimulus onset during sentence reading.
Pathological colonic tissues were investigated with an Environmental Scanning Electron Microscope technique to verify the presence of inorganic, non-biodegradable pollutants, i.e. micro- and nano-debris of exogenous origin, after debris in liver and kidney had been discovered. In all, 18 samples of colon tissues affected by cancer and Crohn's disease were evaluated and found in all the cases to contain micro- and nano-particles. Their chemistry, detected with an X-ray microprobe, indicated a heterogeneous nature, whereas the size of the particles was homogeneous. Three control samples of healthy, young, cadavers were analysed and showed the absence of debris within the normal, healthy colon mucosa. The study reveals the presence of particulate debris, generally considered as biocompatible, in pathological specimens of human colon. The findings suggest a possible link between the presence of such particles and the underlying pathology in the cases analysed.
Decidual stromal cells (DSC) constitute the most abundant population in normal human decidua together with leukocytes. Both populations may be involved in the immunological role of the decidua by favoring gestational functions, participating in physiological mechanisms to eliminate the fetus, or providing local defense against infection. Using flow cytometry, we investigated whether different cytokines modulate the expression on cultured DSC of antigen-presenting molecules. The treatment with IFNgamma or IL-1beta enhanced the expression of CD54. The percentage of expression of HLA-DR was enhanced by IL-1beta treatment but was not modified by IFNgamma. The expression of CD80 and CD86 was enhanced by IFNgamma treatment but was not modified by IL-1beta; the expression of CD86 and HLA-DR was reduced by TGFbeta1 treatment. The response of DSC and dendritic cells to these cytokines appears to be similar, suggesting a phenotypic and functional relationship between these cell types.
During the preimmunohistochemical era, silver stains were an important part of the staining arsenal for identifying certain tissue structures and cell types in tissue sections. Some of them were useful for demonstrating endocrine cells, especially in the gastrointestinal tract. Until the late 1950s, silver stains, particularly those identifying endocrine cells, were accompanied by a number of technical difficulties resulting from uncontrolled staining factors. In the 1960s, new silver stains were developed for endocrine cell types and these stains gave reproducible results. One of the &quot;older&quot; silver stains and two of the &quot;newer&quot; ones are emphasized in this presentation, namely the Masson, the Grimelius and the Sevier-Munger techniques. The Masson stain demonstrates the enterochromaffin (EC, serotonin) cells, the Grimelius stain is a broad endocrine cell marker, and the Sevier-Munger technique demonstrates EC and EC-like cells and the C-cells of the thyroid. Especially in the preimmunohistochemical era, these staining methods often were used for histopathological diagnosis, particularly the Grimelius technique. The silver stains were developed empirically, and with few exceptions the chemical background is not known. Staining protocols are included.
Receptor autoradiography using selective radiolabeled ligands allows visualization of brain receptor distribution and density on film. The resolution of specific brain regions on the film often can be difficult to discern owing to the general spread of the radioactive label and the lack of neuroanatomical landmarks on film. Receptor binding is a chemically harsh protocol that can render the tissue virtually unstainable by Nissl and other conventional stains used to delineate neuroanatomical boundaries of brain regions. We describe a method for acetylcholinesterase (AChE) staining of slides previously processed for receptor binding. AChE staining is a useful tool for delineating major brain nuclei and tracts. AChE staining on sections that have been processed for receptor autoradiography provides a direct comparison of brain regions for more precise neuroanatomical description. We report a detailed thiocholine protocol that is a modification of the Koelle-Friedenwald method to amplify the AChE signal in brain sections previously processed for autoradiography. We also describe several temporal and experimental factors that can affect the density and clarity of the AChE signal when using this protocol.
A 40-yr-old male was admitted to the intensive care unit following blunt chest trauma. He had multiple rib fractures, bilateral pneumothoraces, and acute respiratory failure requiring mechanical ventilation. Sedation was achieved with midazolam and morphine, and later with propofol. The patient was paralysed with a continuous infusion of cisatracurium 1.42-5.75 micro g kg(-1) min(-1). Methylprednisolone 125 mg i.v. every 12 h was also started. After discontinuation of the cisatracurium infusion 7 days later, the patient manifested a flaccid quadriplegia with absence of deep-tendon reflexes. No sensory deficits were observed. Electromyography (EMG), repetitive nerve stimulation testing, and single fibre EMG (SFEMG) were performed at regular intervals after stopping cisatracurium. Clinical symptoms and electrophysiological examinations supported the diagnosis of acute motor axonal polyneuropathy related to concomitant administration of cisatracurium and corticosteroid therapy.
Since its advent in 1993, high frequency stimulation (HFS) of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) has rapidly developed into the most commonly practiced surgical procedure for the treatment of Parkinson's Disease (PD). Although its exact mechanism of action, be it through an inhibitory depolarization block, desynchronization of neuronal circuits or other means, is not clear, the efficacy and safety of the technique are now well established. HFS of the STN improves the motor function by at least 60%, drastically reduces the levodopa requirement and significantly improves the quality of life in PD. This review updates the recent concepts on the pathophysiology of PD and analyses the basic science principles underlying the clinical practice of the STN HFS. The evolution of the surgical technique and long-term patients' outcome are further discussed.


Axonal degeneration contributes to the development of non-remitting neurological deficits and disability in multiple sclerosis, but the molecular mechanisms that underlie axonal loss in multiple sclerosis are not clearly understood. Studies of white matter axonal injury have demonstrated that voltage-gated sodium channels can provide a route for sodium influx into axons that triggers reverse operation of the Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger (NCX) and subsequent influx of damaging levels of intra-axonal calcium. The molecular identities of the involved sodium channels have, however, not been determined. We have previously demonstrated extensive regions of diffuse expression of Na(v)1.6 and Na(v)1.2 sodium channels along demyelinated axons in experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE). Based on the hypothesis that the co-localization of Na(v)1.6 and NCX along extensive regions of demyelinated axons may predispose these axons to injury, we examined the expression of myelin basic protein, Na(v)1.2, Na(v)1.6, NCX and beta-amyloid precursor protein (beta-APP), a marker of axonal injury, in the spinal cord dorsal columns of mice with EAE. We demonstrate a significant increase in the number of demyelinated axons demonstrating diffuse Na(v)1.6 and Na(v)1.2 sodium channel immunoreactivity in EAE (92.2 +/- 2.1% of beta-APP positive axons were Na(v)1.6-positive). Only 38.0 +/- 2.9% of beta-APP positive axons were Na(v)1.2 positive, and 95% of these co-expressed Na(v)1.6 together with Na(v)1.2. Using triple-labelled fluorescent immunohistochemistry, we demonstrate that 73.5 +/- 4.3% of beta-APP positive axons co-express Na(v)1.6 and NCX, compared with 4.4 +/- 1.0% in beta-APP negative axons. Our results indicate that co-expression of Na(v)1.6 and NCX is associated with axonal injury in the spinal cord in EAE.
Multiple sclerosis is thought to be an autoimmune, inflammatory, cell-mediated disease. However, there is evidence suggesting that autoantibodies could play a role in the pathogenesis of multiple sclerosis. Many studies have looked for antibodies to candidate antigens such as myelin basic protein or myelin-oligodendrocyte glycoprotein, with inconclusive results. In order to determine whether antibodies to cell surface determinants on oligodendrocyte or neuronal cells were present in multiple sclerosis, we used flow cytometry to detect antibody binding to intact cultured human cell lines, comparing sera from multiple sclerosis patients with sera from patients with other inflammatory CNS diseases. Sera from healthy individuals were used to determine a normal range. Significant surface binding of IgG or IgM antibodies to oligodendrocyte precursor (OPC)-derived cell lines was seen in 50% of multiple sclerosis sera with no significant difference between secondary progressive (SPMS) and relapsing-remitting (RRMS) subgroups. In contrast, binding to a neuronal cell line, SK-N-SH, was seen with 70% of SPMS sera compared with 25% of RRMS sera (P &lt; 0.001). No significant difference in antibody binding between multiple sclerosis sera and control sera was seen when OPCs were differentiated or when the cells were permeabilized to expose intracellular antigens. Results from all nine patients with 'benign' multiple sclerosis were indistinguishable from controls. This study represents a systematic approach to begin to define new antigenic targets in multiple sclerosis and demonstrates that antibodies to accessible antigens on the cell surface of both OPCs and neurons are present in some patients. The results lend support to the possibility that autoantibody-mediated processes are important in a subgroup of multiple sclerosis patients. Identification of the cell surface determinants to which the antibodies bind may shed light on new targets for therapeutic intervention.
Patients who suffer severe brain damage may be left unaware of self and of the environment and in a permanent vegetative state (PVS). The difficulties in correctly ascertaining unawareness after brain injury have been emphasized by a number of authors. It is well recognized that toxic-metabolic and drug-induced cerebral depression occurs acutely after brain injury. However, less attention has been drawn to the effects of medication months after brain injury and the way in which medication may confound assessment of awareness and, thus, the reliable assessment of long-term prognosis. This paper describes two patients who sustained a severe and well-documented structural brain injury, one hypoxic and one traumatic. Both were unaware when first seen at 3 months post-injury, but both have made useful functional recovery. The paper discusses their progress and how the early prescription of large doses of anti-epileptic drugs, sedatives and anti-spastic agents in these circumstances may result in an initial misdiagnosis of the vegetative state.
Profiles of verbal learning and memory performance were compared for typically developing children and for four developmental disorders characterized by different patterns of language functioning: specific language impairment, early focal brain damage, Williams Syndrome, and Down Syndrome. A list-learning task was used that allowed a detailed examination of the process of verbal learning, recall, and recognition (California Verbal Learning Test--Children's Version). Distinct patterns of performance characterized the four disorders. These patterns were consistent with the language deficits typically seen in the disorders, with the exception of a dissociation seen in Williams Syndrome.
Immature dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons have previously been shown to survive implantation to the cavity of extirpated adult native DRG, send axons via the dorsal root into the host spinal cord and make functional sypnatic connections. Regeneration or replacement of the auditory nerve would provide a major intervention in the clinical treatment of severe hearing impairment. In this study we have exploited the potential of fetal DRG neurons to survive allografting into the cochlea of adult guinea pigs. In some animals implantation of fetal DRGs was combined with infusion of neurotropic substances into the cochlea. Survival of the implanted DRG neurons was found in the majority of grafted animals. Treatment with neurotrophic factors significantly increased the number of surviving implanted DRG neurons. However, even in the absence of neurotrophic substances survival of DRG neurons was found in a majority of the animals, indicating the presence of endogenous growth promoting factors within the cochlea and/or an intrinsic capacity of fetal DRG neurons themselves to survive in this heterotropic location.
Eighteen subjects (ages 18-35) underwent event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (efMRI) while performing a delayed-match-to-sample (DMS) task before and immediately after 48 h of sustained wakefulness. The DMS trial events were: a 3-s study period of either a one-, three-, or six-letter visual array; a 7-s retention interval; and a 3-s probe period, where a button press indicated whether the probe letter was in the study array. Ordinal Trend Canonical Variates Analysis (OrT CVA) was applied to the data from the probe period for trials with six-letter study lists prior to and immediately following sleep deprivation to find an activation pattern whose expression decreased with sleep deprivation in as many subjects as possible, while being present in both conditions. The first principal component of the OrT analysis identified a covariance pattern whose expression decreased as a function of sleep deprivation in 17 of 18 subjects (p&lt;0.001). While overall expression of the pattern showed a systematic decrease with sleep deprivation, the brain regions that make up the pattern show covarying increases and decreases in activation. Regions that decreased their activation were noted in the parietal (BA 7 and 40), temporal (BA 37, 38 and 39) and occipital (BA 18 and 19) lobes; regions that increased their activation were noted in the cerebellum, basal ganglia, thalamus and the anterior cingulate gyrus (BA 32). The reduction in pattern expression with sleep deprivation for each subject was related to the change in performance on the DMS task. Subject decreases in pattern expression were correlated with reductions in recognition accuracy (p&lt;0.05), increased intra-individual variability in reaction time (p&lt;0.005) and increased lapsing (p&lt;0.005).
The performance in letter recognition of 21 blind participants was compared with that of 16 age-matched sighted participants in an n-back working memory task. Blind participants were tested tactually with series of raised letters and Braille characters, and sighted participants tactually with series of raised letters and visually with series of letters presented on a computer screen. With this approach, we wanted to compare the tactual performances by trained (blind) and non-trained (sighted) participants, and tactual and visual performances by trained (blind and sighted, respectively) participants. Increments of mnemonic load increased the number of incorrect responses significantly in all n-back tasks. As expected, the blind participants outperformed the sighted ones statistically significantly in the tactile raised letters n-back task. The sighted participants produced significantly fewer incorrect responses in the visual task than the blind participants in the raised letters task, whereas there was no such difference between sighted subjects' visual performance and blind subjects' tactile performance in the Braille task. These results demonstrate the degree and limits to which everyday practice develops perceptual skills either in persons without sensory deficits (vision and visual environment), or persons with severe sensory loss (blindness and tactile environment). The performance level of blind persons relying on their tactile skills is just about the same as that of sighted subjects relying on their visual skills.

Dementia occurs in up to 30% of people with Parkinson's disease and is a major cause of disability. Pathologically, Parkinson's dementia, where dementia follows the onset of parkinsonism by at least one year, overlaps with dementia with Lewy bodies. We review the functional impact, definitions, neuropsychology, epidemiology and pathophysiology of Parkinson's dementia, dementia with Lewy bodies and their overlap. Associated psychiatric and imaging findings are also considered. Lastly, current and emerging approaches to assessment and treatment in patients with these Lewy body associated dementias are presented.

Polymorphisms of multiple cis-acting elements in the beta-globin locus are associated with variable fetal haemoglobin (HbF) level in sickle cell disease. We developed a multiplex assay permitting simultaneous analysis of three polymorphic cis elements spanning 53 kb of the beta-globin locus. We identified concordance between polymorphic alleles in gamma- and beta-globin promoters however a significant number of betaS-chromosomes were identified with polymorphisms in hypersensitive site 2 (HS2) of the beta-globin locus control region juxtaposed to atypical cis alleles in the gamma-promoter. Analysis of an unusually large number of such hybrid haplotype chromosomes provided unique insight into HbF level associated with specific cis alleles. Associations between cis alleles and HbF level in patients were verified by in vitro functional analysis. Our findings indicate that compared to HS2, polymorphism in the gamma-promoter exerts a dominant influence on HbF level in sickle cell disease.
Using a search engine called Motifer, we searched the public database of the human genome for genes matching a consensus pattern of cysteine residues derived from members of the transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) superfamily. We identified two genes (named MDF451 and MDF628) that display sequence similarity to members of the TGF-beta superfamily in the arrangement of six conserved cysteine residues. Phylogenetic analyses revealed that MDF451 and MDF628 constitute a distinct subgroup within the TGF-beta superfamily, distantly related to the GDNF subfamily of ligands. Both genes could be identified in several primate species in addition to human, including chimpanzee, gorilla, guereza, and green and gray monkey, but not in rodents or other non-primate mammals, and appear not to be present in the genomes of mouse, rat or zebrafish. RNAs for MDF451 and MDF628 were expressed at low levels within distinct regions of the human central nervous system, including adult cerebellum, adult spinal cord and fetal brain. Despite expression at the RNA level, both genes presented a transcribed upstream stop codon that would prevent translation of the TGF-beta-like reading frame. The coding potential of alternative reading frames was not immediately apparent. The two genes may represent TGF-beta-like pseudogenes that have recently appeared in evolution in a common ancestor of the primate lineage by duplication from a GDNF/TGF-beta-like ancestral gene.
The human ADP-ribosylation factor-like protein, ARF4L is a member of the ARF family, which are small GTP-binding proteins that play significant roles in vesicle transport and protein secretion. However, little is known about the physiological roles of ARF4L. In this study, to understand the biological functions of ARF4L, we carried out immunocytochemical analysis of ARF4L molecules with mutations in the functional domains. ARF4L was shown to be distributed to the plasma membrane following binding to GTP (Q80L), and into endosomes following binding to GDP (T35N). Moreover, the inactive-form of ARF4L (T35N) causes localization of transferrin receptors to the endosomal compartment, while the active form (Q80L) causes transport to the plasma membrane. These findings indicate that ARF4L drive the transport of cargo protein and subsequent fusion of recycling vesicles with the plasma membrane for maintenance of the cell surface.
In this paper, we will provide evidence of the putative molecular signals and biochemical events that mediate the formation of long-lasting gustatory memory trace. When an animal drinks a novel taste (the conditioned stimulus; CS) and it is later associated with malaise (unconditioned stimulus; US), the animal will reject it in the next presentation, developing a long-lasting taste aversion, i.e., the taste cue becomes an aversive signal, and this is referred to as conditioning taste aversion. Different evidence indicates that the novel stimulus (taste) induces a rapid and strong cortical acetylcholine activity that decreases when the stimulus becomes familiar after several presentations. Cholinergic activation via muscarinic receptors initiates a series of intracellular events leading to plastic changes that could be related to short- and/or long-term memory gustatory trace. Such plastic changes facilitate the incoming US signals carried out by, in part, the glutamate release induced by the US. Altogether, these events could produce the cellular changes related to the switch from safe to aversive taste memory trace. A proposed working model to explain the biochemical sequence of signals during taste memory formation will be discussed.
Although Alzheimer's disease pathologically affects the brain, familial Alzheimer's disease associated mutations of beta-amyloid precursor protein and presenilin are ubiquitously expressed and therefore aberrant intracellular signals, separate from but similar to, the brain may be expected. Here, we report selective down regulation of the serine/threonine kinase, Akt/PKB, concurrent with elevated endogenous GSK3beta kinase activity in familial Alzheimer's disease beta-amyloid precursor protein expressing human embryonic kidney (HEK) and familial Alzheimer's disease presenilin lymphoblast cells. Further, familial Alzheimer's disease presenilin in the human lymphoblast was associated with beta-catenin destabilization. Moreover, limited immunohistochemistry analysis reveals Akt/PKB in a subset of neurofibrillary tangles where GSK3beta and tau have been reported to co-localize, suggesting a possible Akt/GSK3beta and tau interaction in vivo. Our data suggest that familial Alzheimer's disease mutants of beta-amyloid precursor protein and presenilin signal, at least in part, through the Akt/GSKbeta pathway and that Akt/GSK3beta-mediated signalling may contribute to the underlying Alzheimer's disease pathogenesis induced by familial Alzheimer's disease mutants.
Arylalkylamine N-acetyltransferase (AA-NAT) is the key regulatory enzyme in the melatonin biosynthetic pathway. Previous investigations have reported that Aa-nat mRNA in rat is only detected in a sub-population of photoreceptor cells that resemble cones in shape and size. In the present study, we investigated Aa-nat expression in the rat retina by using in situ hybridization and laser capture microdissection combined with the reverse transcription/polymerase chain reaction technique. Our results demonstrate that, contrary to previous reports, Aa-nat transcripts are present not only in the photoreceptor cells, but also in the inner nuclear layer and in the ganglion cell layer. However, the rhythmic expression of Aa-nat mRNA was observed only in photoreceptor cells.
The present study examined the sensitivity to light of melatonin (MLT) secretion in familial migraine during a headache-free interval. Twelve female patients and 12 healthy controls were included in the trial. All subjects were studied twice. In each session, light exposure (300 lx) or placebo was randomly administered for 30 min between 00.30 and 01.00 h. Blood was sampled hourly between 20.00 and 24.00 h, and 02.00 and 04.00 h and every 15 min between 00.30 and 01.30 h. Plasma MLT levels were determined by radioimmunoassay. MLT suppression was more marked in the migraine group than in the control group [difference of area under curve (DeltaAUC)=-53.8 +/- 16.2 vs. 18.5 +/- 12.7 pg/h/ml, P&lt;0.005; maximum of MLT suppression (Delta)=-35.7 +/- 10.2 vs. - 6.7 +/- 5.8 pg/ml, P&lt;0.05]. These findings show a clear hypersensitivity to light in young female migraineurs during the headache-free period.
A series of new fluorescent Zinpyr (ZP) chemosensors based on the fluorescein platform have been prepared and evaluated for imaging neuronal Zn(2+). A systematic synthetic survey of electronegative substitution patterns on a homologous ZP scaffold provides a basis for tuning the fluorescence responses of &quot;off-on&quot; photoinduced electron transfer (PET) probes by controlling fluorophore pK(a) values and attendant proton-induced interfering fluorescence of the metal-free (apo) probes at physiological pH. We further establish the value of these improved optical tools for interrogating the metalloneurochemistry of Zn(2+); the novel ZP3 fluorophore images endogenous stores of Zn(2+) in live hippocampal neurons and slices, including the first fluorescence detection of Zn(2+) in isolated dentate gyrus cultures. Our findings reveal that careful control of fluorophore pK(a) can minimize proton-induced fluorescence of the apo probes and that electronegative substitution offers a general strategy for tuning PET chemosensors for cellular studies. In addition to providing improved optical tools for Zn(2+) in the neurosciences, these results afford a rational starting point for creating superior fluorescent probes for biological applications.
An increased diversity of therapeutic targets in the pharmaceutical industry in recent years has led to a greater diversity of toxicological effects. This, and the increased pace of drug discovery, leads to a need for new technologies for the rapid elucidation of toxicological mechanisms. As part of an evaluation of the utility of metabonomics in drug safety assessment, 1H NMR spectra were acquired on urine and liver tissue samples obtained from rats administered vehicle or a development compound (MrkA) previously shown to induce hepatotoxicity in several animal species. Multivariate statistical analysis of the urinary NMR data clearly discriminated drug-treated from control animals, due to a depletion in tricarboxylic acid cycle intermediates, and the appearance of medium chain dicarboxylic acids. High-resolution magic angle spinning NMR data acquired on liver samples exhibited elevated triglyceride levels that were correlated with changes in the urinary NMR data. Urinary dicarboxylic aciduria is associated with defective metabolism of fatty acids; subsequent in vitro experiments confirmed that MrkA impairs fatty acid metabolism. The successful application of metabonomics to characterize an otherwise ill-defined mechanism of drug-induced toxicity supports the practicality of this approach for resolving toxicity issues for drugs in discovery and development.























The degree of manual asymmetry is generally assumed to vary with task complexity. However, task complexity as a factor in manual asymmetries has rarely been examined directly. Further, the results of psychophysical studies indicate that manual asymmetry increases with task complexity, while physiological studies consistently report a reduction of manual asymmetries in more complex tasks. The use of different tasks (rather than different complexity levels within a given task) in many psychophysical studies might result in this inconsistency. This study investigated the influence of task complexity on manual asymmetries in 70 right-handed subjects. We used three complexity levels within a finger-tapping paradigm. A strong advantage of the preferred hand was particularly pronounced in the simple finger-tapping task. When the task was more complex, the advantage of the preferred hand, and thus, the manual asymmetry significantly decreased or disappeared. These results support previous suggestions that simple motor tasks involve localised neural networks confined to one cerebral hemisphere, while complex motor tasks are controlled by more widely distributed neuronal assemblies that involve both hemispheres. However, the influence of task complexity on manual asymmetry seems not to be monotonic.
Anosognosia is a common, fascinating, and ill-understood disorder following brain damage, where patients who suffer severe deficits such as hemiplegia may remain unaware of and deny their handicap. Many studies including recent work published in this journal have attempted to determine the neurological, cognitive, and motivational bases of anosognosia. These studies have typically focused on descriptive correlations between anosognosia and various clinical factors, but did not identify a consistent pattern of brain lesion or dysfunction. Rather, the results have emphasized the complex and multifacet nature of anosognosia. This review discusses the implications of existing results, and proposes a general &quot; framework for anosognosia where various problems in Appreciation, Belief, and Check operations may contribute to abnormal cognitive and affective appraisal of a deficit. New experimental approaches and new therapeutic tools are needed to better understand the neurocognitive mechanisms responsible for our awareness of normal functioning and failures.


Despite considerable progress in defining the role of the beta-amyloid protein (Abeta) in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD), the mechanism by which accumulation of Abeta causes dementia remains elusive. Memory loss is probably caused by an Abeta-induced change in synaptic plasticity. Computational neuroscience (neural network modelling) studies demonstrate that cell death (or synaptic loss as a consequence of cell death) per se cannot cause the specific pattern of gradual amnesia that occurs in AD. Amnesia typical of that seen in AD can only be produced when synaptic scaling occurs. Synaptic scaling is a compensatory homeostatic mechanism which maintains the excitatory response of individual neurons and prevents the catastrophic amnesia associated with synapse loss. In this review, several possible mechanisms of synaptic scaling are described.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a serious motor disorder and it is the second most common brain degenerative disease in human. PD is known to be caused by degeneration of dopamine neurons in the substantia nigra but the cause of cell death is largely unknown. Mammalian neurokinins [NKs] are a group of neuropeptides that include substance P (SP; neurokinin-1, NK-1), substance K (SK; NK-2; neurokinin A), and neuromedin K (NK; NK-3; neurokinin B). Their biological effects as neurotransmitters, neuromodulators, or neurotrophic-like factors are mediated by three distinct neurokinin receptors, namely SP receptor (SPR: NK-1 receptor, NK-1R), SKR (NK-2R), and NKR (NK-3R). Several lines of evidence have indicated that neurokinins are implicated in the pathogenesis of PD. First, decreases of SP level and SP-immunoreactivity have been found in nigral and striatal tissues of animals with PD and postmortem PD patients. Second, NKs exert neuroprotective effects on neurons. In addition, NK receptors, namely NK-1 and NK-3 receptors, are abundantly localized in dopaminergic and cholinergic neurons of the basal ganglia, indicating that these neurons are under the physiological regulation of NKs. Moreover, modulation in motor activity occurred in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated mice, PD animal model, after systemic administration of NK receptor agonists. NKs and NK receptors, therefore, might be important molecules that are associated with functions and survival of neurons in the basal ganglia, in particular the dopamine neurons. Further studies should be devoted to elucidate the functional roles of NK systems in (a) the neuropathogenesis and neuroprotection during the course of PD, (b) the efficacy of NK receptor drugs towards PD, and (c) potential therapeutic intervention that targets at the prevention or treatment of PD.
The 5-hydroxytryptamine(6) (5-ht(6)) was one of the most recent additions to the 5-HT receptor family, selective antagonists have recently been developed and potential functional roles are now becoming apparent. The high affinity of a wide range of psychiatric drugs for the 5-ht(6)receptor, together with its almost exclusive expression in the CNS, being abundant in limbic and cortical regions, has stimulated significant research interest. The 5-ht(6)receptor appears to regulate glutamatergic and cholinergic neuronal activity, and increasing evidence suggests that it may be involved in the regulation of cognition, feeding and, possibly, affective state and seizures. The current article will review all aspects of the discovery, genetics, distribution, pharmacology and function of the 5-ht(6)receptor. Taken together, this wealth of information warrants the use of the upper case nomenclature for the 5-ht(6) receptor to be approved and its true status recognised.

The atypical antipsychotics risperidone, olanzapine, quetiapine, ziprasidone, and aripiprazole have become first-line treatment for schizophrenia because they reduce the positive symptoms of psychosis but do not have a high incidence of extrapyramidal symptoms. However, these agents, like other antipsychotics, may take as long as 16 or more weeks to produce a response, and even with prolonged treatment are unlikely to evoke responses greater than 50% improvement in symptoms. This has led to the experimental use of high atypical antipsychotic doses, antipsychotic polypharmacy, and augmentation with other psychotropic drugs, all of which occur commonly in clinical practice. This article reviews the current evidence for these increasingly common means of treating schizophrenia and psychosis, with particular emphasis on polypharmacy and augmentation. To date, there are only two controlled studies of antipsychotic polypharmacy involving an atypical antipsychotic; the rest of the data are uncontrolled trials and case reports that describe a mixture of positive and negative findings. One multicenter, double-blind trial shows a faster onset of action when divalproex is added to risperidone or olanzapine than with antipsychotic monotherapy. A small double-blind study demonstrates efficacy when lamotrigine is added to clozapine. The rest of the data on augmentation with anticonvulsants are uncontrolled, and most report adverse effects. With the exception of divalproex, there are currently no compelling data to justify the use of antipsychotic polypharmacy or augmentation. Existing evidence suggests that the best treatments for schizophrenia and psychosis may be long-term trials of a sequence of atypical antipsychotic monotherapies at therapeutic doses.
The first part of the present review describes the exciting journey of dopamine stabilizers, starting in the early eighties with the development of the partial dopamine agonist (-)-3-PPP of phenylpiperidine structure, via various compounds with aminotetraline structure with preferential autoreceptor antagonist properties, and then back again to phenylpiperidine compounds carrying substituents on the aromatic ring that transformed them from partial dopamine agonists to partial dopamine receptor antagonists, such as OSU6162. OSU6162 was brought to the clinic and has in preliminary trials showed antidyskinetic and antipsychotic efficacy. The second part of this review describes results from a hypoglutamatergia mouse model for cognitive symptoms of schizophrenia, where we have tested traditional neuroleptics, new generation antipsychotics with marked 5-HT2 vs dopamine D2 receptor blockade as well as a dopamine stabilizer belonging to the partial dopamine receptor antagonist category.

The past decade has witnessed a growing interest in the trophic effects of antidepressant drugs. Antidepressants stimulate the production and signaling of plasticity-related proteins such as neurotrophins and cAMP response element binding protein, and neurotrophin signaling appears to be both sufficient and necessary for antidepressant action in rodents. Furthermore, several different antidepressant treatments increase neurogenesis in rodent hippocampus and this effect correlates with the behavioral effects produced by these drugs. These data suggest that antidepressants facilitate activity-dependent selection of functional synaptic connections in brain and, through their neurotrophic effects, improve information processing within neuronal networks compromised in mood disorders.
After some early hints, cotransmission was proposed in 1976 and the 'chemical coding' gradually established for sympathetic, parasympathetic, sensory-motor, enteric and some invertebrate nerves. More recently, cotransmission has been recognised in the central nervous system. ATP appears to be a primitive signalling molecule that has been retained as a cotransmitter in every nerve type in both peripheral and central nervous systems, although the relative role of ATP varies considerably in different species and pathological conditions. In the past two years, interest has focused on the mechanisms underlying cotransmission, plasticity and differential control of cotransmitter expression.
Recent advances in studies of nicotinic agents in humans have begun to more carefully define cognitive operations that can be influenced by nicotinic stimulation and/or blockade. Careful separation of the cognitive domains affected by nicotinic stimulation has identified attentional performance as the most likely candidate to be positively influenced by nicotinic receptor activation. Studies of the effects of nicotinic systems and/or nicotinic receptor stimulation in pathological disease states such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder and schizophrenia show the potential for therapeutic utility of nicotinic drugs. In contrast to studies in pathological states, studies of nicotine in normal-non-smokers tend to show deleterious effects. This contradiction can be resolved by consideration of cognitive and biological baseline dependency differences between study populations in terms of the relationship of optimal cognitive performance to nicotinic receptor activity. Although normal individuals are unlikely to show cognitive benefits after nicotinic stimulation except under extreme task conditions, individuals with a variety of disease states can benefit from nicotinic drugs. Attentional function/dysfunction may serve as an endophenotypic therapeutic target for nicotinic drug development.
All addictive drugs facilitate dopamine transmission, and determining the role of dopamine has been the predominant focus of biomedical research in addiction for 20 years. Newer data and hypotheses have begun to shift our focus to involvement of cortex and corticofugal glutamate projections. The rationale for shifting focus to glutamate ranges from evidence showing that cortical activity is altered in addicts to data from animal models demonstrating drug-induced changes in the function of proteins that regulate pre- and postsynaptic glutamate neurotransmission. Recent studies have particularly focused on involvement of a circuit that includes glutamate projections from the prefrontal cortex to the nucleus accumbens.
This unit describes the use of an automated procedure for developing an operant response (&quot;autoshaping&quot;) in the mouse. The method has applications in the study of the acquisition of behavior (learning) as well as for the assessment of memory or retention of that task.
Developmental tests are used to characterize early markers of behavior for investigation of the neurobiology of these behaviors, and to assess the impact of early prenatal or postnatal insult. These perturbations may include pharmacological, environmental, and genetic manipulations. At birth the rat is capable of some specific activities, but its movements are uncoordinated and seemingly random, its tactile sensitivity is not fully developed, and its ear canals and eyes remain closed until several days after birth. Postnatal development consists mainly of the continuation of processes begun earlier. This unit presents protocols for the most commonly used animal tests of developmental reflexology, including negative geotaxis, cliff avoidance, placing responses, tactile and acoustic startle responses, surface and air righting reflexes, crossed extensor reflex, rooting reflex, grasp reflex, bar holding, and horizontal and vertical screen tests.
This unit describes techniques for the preparation of mouse cerebellar slices and electrophysiological recording from neurons in the slice. The cerebellum provides a model of motor learning that can be correlated with alterations in synaptic function. In addition, the architecture and well-defined synaptic pathways in the cerebellar slice make this preparation a useful model for exploring general principles of synaptic transmission.
Expression of genes is manifested by the production of RNA transcripts within cells. Hybridization histochemistry (or in situ hybridization) permits localization of these transcripts with cellular resolution or better. Furthermore, the relative amounts of transcripts detected within different tissues or the same tissues in different states (e.g., physiological or developmental) may be quantified. This unit describes hybridization histochemical techniques using either oligonucleotide probes or RNA probes (riboprobes). Also presented is the use of probes labeled with digoxigenin for colorimetric detection of RNA transcripts and a technique to detect the Y chromosome using either mouse or human riboprobes. Finally, a procedure is presented for the autoradiographic detection of radiolabeled probes. Methods are provided for labeling oligodeoxynucleotide and RNA probes and performing northern analyses using these probes.
The immunohistological methods described in this unit can be used to determine the precise localization of neurochemicals, receptors, and proteins throughout the nervous system. Determining the localization of a protein within defined brain nuclei and neuronal cell populations can provide important clues regarding its potential function. Immunoperoxidase reactions and light microscopy are commonly used to visualize the distribution of a single primary antibody directed to an antigen of interest. Double-labeling immunofluorescence and confocal microscopy techniques detect the localization of one protein relative to another protein and allow analysis of colocalization at a cellular and subcellular level. The colocalization of two proteins can also be quantified, allowing analysis of the extent of overlap between two labeled markers and measurements of changes in the localization of one protein relative to another following drug treatment or in animals that have been genetically modified. The theoretical limit of resolution of confocal microscopy is 0.1 to 0.2 microm.


We provide the first analysis of how a segmentally reiterated pattern of neurons is specified along the anteroposterior axis of the vertebrate spinal cord by investigating how zebrafish primary motoneurons are patterned. Two identified primary motoneuron subtypes, MiP and CaP, occupy distinct locations within the ventral neural tube relative to overlying somites, express different genes and innervate different muscle territories. In all vertebrates examined so far, paraxial mesoderm-derived signals specify distinct motoneuron subpopulations in specific anteroposterior regions of the spinal cord. We show that signals from paraxial mesoderm also control the much finer-grained segmental patterning of zebrafish primary motoneurons. We examined primary motoneuron specification in several zebrafish mutants that have distinct effects on paraxial mesoderm development. Our findings suggest that in the absence of signals from paraxial mesoderm, primary motoneurons have a hybrid identity with respect to gene expression, and that under these conditions the CaP axon trajectory may be dominant.
The olfactory bulb is a protruding structure formed at the rostral end of the telencephalon. Pax6-mutant mice and rats lack the olfactory bulb and, instead, develop an olfactory bulb-like structure at the lateral part of the telencephalon. Here, we report that ectopic formation of the olfactory bulb-like structure in these mutants is caused by the abnormal migration of mitral cell progenitors, which first differentiate within the olfactory bulb. Cell-tracing experiments in whole embryos in culture indicate that, in the mutants, the mitral cell progenitors that originate from the rostral part of the telencephalon migrate caudally toward the lateral part of the telencephalon. Cell transplantation demonstrates that the abnormal cell migration is not autonomous to the mitral cell progenitors themselves. The mislocation of the olfactory bulb in the mutant is not caused by loss of olfactory nerve innervation. Furthermore, transfection of a Pax6-expression vector to the mutant telencephalon restores the normal migration of mitral cell progenitors. These results provide evidence that Pax6 is required to position the mitral cell progenitors at the rostral end of the telencephalon.

Murine NGD5 is a gene identified from NG108-15 cells which is postulated to be involved in opioid receptor function. Here we report the cloning and characterization of a cDNA C20orf9-003 (ACI-1) encoding the human orthologue of the mouse NGD5. Analysis of the genomic structure revealed that C20orf9-003 (ACI-1) contains 13 exons and 12 introns, spanning 52.5kb of genomic DNA and is a variant of C20orf9. Chromosomal localization of human C20orf9-003 (ACI-1) assigned this gene to chromosome 20q13.12. Genes at this locus have been associated with the progression and possibly the development of various cancers. In addition several linkage studies support the possibility that one or more genes affecting obesity are located in 20q13. No function can be clearly assigned to C20orf9-003 (ACI-1), however, the protein has a cytoplasmic subcellular location and the secondary structure contains a Rossman fold like feature which is found in many nucleotide binding proteins.

In the present study, we investigated the role of prolactin (PRL) in the suckling-induced increase in hypothalamic neuropeptide Y (NPY) gene expression in the dorsomedial nucleus of the hypothalamus (DMH) and the caudal portion of the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus (ARH-C). Lactating rats were deprived of their eight-pup litters on d 9 postpartum. After 48 h, the animals were randomly divided into two groups: nonsuckled controls and eight pups suckling for 24 h. In addition, some of the suckled animals received two injections of bromocriptine (0.5 mg/rat per injection) to inhibit suckling-induced PRL secretion. Some bromocriptine-treated rats also received ovine PRL (1 mg/rat per injection). In situ hybridization was performed to measure NPY mRNA levels. Suckling for 24 h induced a significant increase in NPY mRNA levels in the DMH and ARH-C. Bromocriptine treatment greatly attenuated the increase of NPY mRNA in the DMH but not in the ARH. Injections of ovine PRL in bromocriptine-treated rats greatly restored DMH NPY mRNA levels but had no additional effects on the ARH NPY expression. Double-label in situ hybridization for NPY and PRL receptor (PRL-R) in the lactating rat brains showed that NPY-positive neurons in the DMH also express PRL-R mRNA. On the contrary, few ARH NPY neurons expressed PRL-R. These data suggest that PRL could act directly on DMH NPY neurons to modulate NPY gene expression during lactation. Thus, the results from the present study demonstrate that NPY neurons in the DMH and ARH are differentially regulated by PRL during lactation.
Uncoupling proteins (UCPs) are mitochondrial proteins that play a role in regulation of energy expenditure by uncoupling respiration from ATP synthesis. Lactation is a physiological condition characterized by negative energy balance due to the loss of energy sources to the production of milk. The objective of the current study was to investigate whether UCP mRNA and protein expressions were altered during lactation compared with those after 48 h of fasting. Lactation significantly reduced serum leptin levels, and removal of pups for 48 h increased serum leptin to higher levels than those observed in control rats. Compared with control rats, mRNA expression of UCP1 and UCP3 in brown adipose tissue (BAT) was dramatically reduced during lactation and fasting. The reduction in mRNAs was reflected by a lowered UCP1 protein level, and to some extent, UCP3 protein. Treatment of lactating rats with exogenous leptin (3 mg/kg) or removal of pups for 48 h completely reversed the down-regulation of UCP1 and UCP3 mRNA expression in BAT, and pup removal led to a recovery of protein expression. In contrast to BAT, UCP3 expression in skeletal muscle was increased in fasted rats and decreased during lactation. Similar changes were observed in serum free fatty acid levels. These changes are consistent with the idea that the utilization of free fatty acids as a fuel source is spared during lactation. As in BAT, leptin treatment and removal of pups were able to restore changes in mRNA expression of UCP3 in skeletal muscle during lactation. The present results suggest that the inhibition of leptin secretion during lactation is involved in the down-regulation of UCP expression in BAT and skeletal muscle, which, in turn, is responsible for the decrease in metabolic fuel oxidation and thermogenesis.
Leptin is a hormone that regulates body weight homeostasis mainly via the hypothalamic functional leptin receptor Ob-Rb. Recently, we proposed that the taste organ is a new peripheral target for leptin. Leptin selectively inhibits mouse taste cell responses to sweet substances and thereby may act as a sweet taste modulator. The present study further investigated leptin action on the taste system by examining expression of Ob-Rb in taste cells and behavioral responses to sweet substances in leptin-deficient ob/ob, and Ob-Rb-deficient db/db mice and their normal litter mates. RT-PCR analysis showed that Ob-Rb was expressed in taste cells in all strains tested. The db/db mice, however, had a RT-PCR product containing an abnormal db insertion that leads to an impaired shorter intracellular domain. In situ hybridization analysis showed that the hybridization signals for normal Ob-Rb mRNA were detected in taste cells in lean and ob/ob mice but not in db/db mice. Two different behavioral tests, one using sweet-bitter mixtures as taste stimuli and the other a conditioned taste aversion paradigm, demonstrated that responses to sucrose and saccharin were significantly decreased after ip injection of leptin in ob/ob and normal littermates, but not in db/db mice. These results suggest that leptin suppresses behavioral responses to sweet substances through its action on Ob-Rb in taste cells. Such taste modulation by leptin may be involved in regulation for food intake.
To drive the daily ACTH secretory rhythm from anterior pituitary corticotropes signals from the circadian clock schedule CRH and, to lesser extent, arginine vasopressin (AVP) release from neuroendocrine terminals. In turn, releasable pools of CRH and AVP in neuroendocrine terminals are sustained by synthetic mechanisms in the medial parvicellular paraventricular nucleus, a critical component of which involves transcribing primary (heteronuclear (hn)) RNA transcripts from their cognate genes. To determine the fundamental daily patterns of ACTH secretagogue gene transcription in unstressed rats, we measured CRH and AVP hnRNA levels at 1- to 4-h intervals throughout the day using in situ hybridization. Crh gene transcription is readily detectable throughout the day, and shows a pronounced rhythm that is temporally correlated with CRH mRNA levels, but is uncoupled from ACTH release. However, avp gene transcription is barely detectable and shows no discernable rhythm. We then performed similar experiments in adrenalectomized rats with or without corticosterone replacement. Corticosterone-dependent mechanisms regulate CRH hnRNA levels at the nadir and peak as well as the onset of nocturnal crh gene transcription. A prominent rhythm of avp hnRNA seen in adrenalectomized animals was dampened by corticosterone. This study shows, first, CRH synthesis in intact animals is maintained by a nocturnal episode of crh gene transcription, parameters of which are modulated by corticosterone-dependent mechanisms; second, circulating corticosterone is sufficient to completely inhibit a daily rhythm of avp gene transcription present in adrenalectomized rats; third, the neural systems that activate crh gene transcription can be uncoupled from those driving ACTH release.
Conceiving the organization of the brain as a &quot;neuromatrix&quot; could provide significant insights into how different injuries to the nervous system could result in very distinct changes in behavior. The use of different pharmacological treatments to combat the deleterious consequences of such injuries is common practice. However, such treatments may have the capacity to alter the configurations of various neuronal circuits that contribute to the &quot;neuromatrix&quot; by selectively preventing damage to some pathways while facilitating the spread of destruction along others. The choice of pharmacological treatment may have profound consequences on the recovery of normal functioning following injury. We examined the behavior of rats treated with one of two potentially neuroprotective agents, the N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist ketamine and the atypical neuroleptic acepromazine, on seizures induced by lithium-pilocarpine. Rats treated with ketamine following seizure onset were virtually indistinguishable from nonepileptic controls on a variety of behavioral tasks that included tests on learning, memory, and anxiety. In contrast, acepromazine-treated rats showed marked deficits on all learning and behavioral measures tested. These results suggest that administration of ketamine relatively soon after the emergence of epilepsy can prevent many of the cognitive deficits that are commonly found in rats subjected to lithium-pilocarpine-induced seizures. Further clinical testing investigating ketamine as a potential adjunct treatment for epilepsy may be well warranted.

Neuropsychologists have a significant role in the assessment, treatment, and rehabilitation of people with epilepsy. This includes providing an assessment of an individual's cognitive strengths and weaknesses with respect to being a candidate for the surgery program, detailing intellectual and memory impairments as part of a rehabilitation service, and documenting specific antiepileptic drug effects as part of routine clinical management. Each of these specific roles requires careful consideration with respect to the potential pitfalls they can present to the neuropsychologist. In this article, we have attempted to identify the most obvious &quot;dos and don'ts&quot; in the neuropsychological assessment of people with epilepsy. These range from issues relating to the reliance of measures, to the failure to document patients' backgrounds, to the importance of considering the psychometric tests that we use. We have attempted to emphasize the importance or value of a well-conducted neuropsychological assessment to the management of the person with epilepsy.
Antiepileptic drugs produce global changes in the excitation levels in the central nervous system and often lead to cognitive and behavioral deficits. These deficits vary and must be considered independently in every patient. A number of consistent risk factors have been established. Polypharmacy and high blood levels of an antiepileptic drug (AED) increase the risk of cognitive side effects. Different effects have been demonstrated for some AEDs, but comparative data are incomplete across all of them. Other factors such as patient age and type/frequency of seizures may also be important contributors to the patient's cognitive state. AEDs can have positive or negative effects on mood, providing another consideration in choosing the course of treatment.

The aims of this study were to evaluate the serological response to treatment with staphylococcal vaccine in fibromyalgia/chronic fatigue syndrome patients and to explore the relationship between serological response and clinical effect. Twenty-eight patients, half of whom served as controls, were recruited from a 6-month randomised trial in which repeated administration of the staphylococcal toxoid vaccine Staphypan Berna (Berna Biotech, Switzerland) was tested against placebo. Antibody status against extracellular toxins/enzymes, cell-wall components, and enterotoxins was evaluated at baseline and at endpoint. The clinical response to treatment was recorded in rating scales. In the group receiving active treatment, significant serological changes were recorded, whereas no significant changes were found in controls. Treatment led to a significantly increased capacity of serum to neutralise alpha-toxin and a significant increase in serum IgG to alpha-toxin and lipase. Furthermore, the increase in these parameters combined paralleled the improvement in clinical outcome. Thus, the greater the serological response, the greater was the clinical effect. In conclusion, this explorative study has shown that repeated administration of the Staphypan Berna vaccine in patients with fibromyalgia/chronic fatigue syndrome causes a serological response to several staphylococcal antigens, particularly to certain extracellular toxins and enzymes. The results further show that this response is related to the clinical outcome of treatment.
The orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) is important in motivation and emotion. We previously reported reward expectancy-related delay activities during a delayed reaction time task in primate OFC neurons. To further investigate the significance of the OFC in motivational operations, we examined pre-instruction, baseline activities of OFC neurons in relation to reward expectancy during the delayed reaction time task. In this task, an instruction cue indicated whether reward would be present or absent in the trial. Each set of four consecutive trials constituted one block within which three different kinds of rewards and one trial with no reward were given in a fixed order that differed from the monkey's reward preference. We identified two types of OFC neurons with reward expectancy-related pre-instruction activities: Step-type neurons showed stepwise changes (increase or decrease) in pre-instruction activity toward the trial with a particular outcome, which usually was the most or least attractive within a block; Pref-type neurons showed pre-instruction activity changes according to the monkey's preference for each trial's outcome. We propose that Step-type and Pref-type neurons are related to long-range and short-range reward expectancies of a particular outcome, respectively. The OFC is considered to play important roles in goal-directed behaviour by adjusting the motivational level toward a certain (current or future) outcome of a particular motivational significance based on the two kinds of reward expectancy processes. Impairments in goal-directed behaviour by OFC patients may be caused by a lack of long-range expectancy or by a deficit in compromising between short-range and long-range expectancies.
Spherical bushy neurons in the anteroventral cochlear nucleus receive glutamatergic primary terminals from the cochlear nerve and terminals of noncochlear (i.e. nonprimary) origin, many of which colocalize gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and glycine. Here the relationship between GABA and glycine in these terminals has been investigated using postembedding immunogold labelling. A significant negative correlation was found between the density of terminal labelling for GABA and for glycine in four guinea pigs. Terminals could be divided into three categories, GABA-only, glycine-only, or colocalizing depending on whether they had a significantly higher labelling density for either amino acid than the primary terminals. The overall labelling density in all four animals was significantly greater for GABA in GABA-only terminals than colocalizing ones but similar for glycine in both. Within the terminals, the labelling density over synaptic vesicles, nonvesicular regions of cytoplasm and mitochondria was also investigated. No significant difference was detected in the labelling density of vesicles compared with nonvesicular regions for either amino acid. However, a significant difference was found between the overall labelling density over mitochondria and nonvesicular regions for both. There was also significantly more mitochondrial GABA labelling in GABA-only terminals compared to colocalizing terminals but mitochondrial glycine labelling was similar in glycine-only and colocalizing terminals. Thus the level of GABA is higher in single than in colocalizing terminals, particularly in the mitochondria, but similar for glycine in both. It is possible therefore that the presence of glycine affects the level of GABA in the nonprimary terminals but that the presence of GABA does not affect the level of glycine.
Recent work has revealed that signalling via the p42/44 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway couples light to entrainment of the circadian clock located in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN). Given that many effects of the MAPK pathway are mediated by intermediate kinases, it was of interest to identify kinase targets of ERK in the SCN. One potential target is the family of 90-kDa ribosomal S6 kinases (RSKs). In this study, we examined light-induced regulation of RSK-1 in the SCN. Immunohistochemical and Western analysis were used to show that photic stimulation during the early and late night triggered the phosphorylation of RSK-1 at two sites that are targeted by ERK. This increase in the phosphorylation state of RSK-1 corresponded with an approximate fourfold increase in kinase activity. Light exposure during the subjective day did not increase the phosphorylated form of RSK-1, indicating that the capacity of light to stimulate RSK-1 activation is phase-restricted. Double immunofluorescent labelling of SCN tissue revealed the colocalized expression of the activated form of ERK with the phosphorylated form of RSK-1 following a light pulse. In vivo pharmacological inhibition of light-induced MAPK pathway activation blocked RSK-1 phosphorylation, indicating that RSK-1 activity is regulated by the MAPK pathway. PDK-1, a coregulator of RSK-1, is also expressed in the SCN and is likely to contribute to RSK-1 activity. RSK-1 phosphorylation was also rhythmically regulated within a subset of phospho-ERK-expressing cells. Together these results identify RSK-1 as a light- and clock-regulated kinase and raise the possibility that it contributes to entrainment and timing of the circadian pacemaker.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) is delivered to the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN) circadian pacemaker via an input from the thalamic intergeniculate leaflet. NPY can inhibit light-induced responses of the circadian system of Syrian hamsters. Here we studied whether an antagonist to NPY receptors can be used to potentiate photic phase shifts late in the subjective night. First we determined by in situ hybridization that both NPY Y1 and Y5 receptor mRNA are expressed in the SCN of Syrian hamsters. Second, similar to our previous findings at Zeitgeber time 14 (ZT 14, where ZT 12 was the time of lights off), we found that NPY applied at ZT 18.5 onto the SCN region of brain slices maintained in vitro could block NMDA-induced phase advances of the spontaneous firing rate rhythm, and this blocking effect was probably mediated by the Y5 receptor, since co-application of Y5 receptor antagonists completely reversed the effect of NPY, while application of a Y1 receptor antagonist had no effect under the same conditions. Third, we found that co-treatment with a Y5 receptor antagonist in vivo (s.c., 10 mg/kg) not only reversed the effect of NPY applied to the SCN in vivo through a cannula but also significantly potentiated the light-induced phase advance in the absence of NPY. This is the first report of a NPY receptor antagonist having such an effect, and indicates that NPY Y5 receptor antagonists could be clinically useful for potentiating circadian system responses to light.
It has been suggested that low-threshold sensory pathways have an important role in the formation and maintenance of sensory abnormalities which are observed after peripheral nerve injury. In the present study, we examined the involvement of these pathways in the development of hyperexcitability after sciatic nerve injury (SNI) by detecting the intracellular signal molecule. The rats that received a transection of the sciatic nerve 7 days before were electrically stimulated at 0.1 mA and 3 mA in the proximal region of the nerve injury site. We found a small number of phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated kinase (pERK)-labelled neurons in laminae I-II and III-IV of the spinal dorsal horn in the control rats after 0.1 mA stimulation. By contrast, there was a marked increased of pERK-labelled neurons both in the superficial laminae and laminae III-IV after the same stimulation in the SNI rats. Enhancement of ERK activation induced by 3 mA stimulation was also observed. Immunoreactivity of pERK in gracile nucleus neurons was also dramatically increased after 0.1 mA stimulation to the injured nerve. These data suggest that the rats with peripheral nerve injury had an increased responsiveness to the low- or high-threshold peripheral stimuli in I-II, III-IV and gracile nucleus neurons. Furthermore, SNI rats that received neonatal capsaicin treatment showed a decreased number of pERK neurons after 0.1 mA stimulation in the dorsal horn and gracile nucleus neurons compared to the control rats. Thus, C-fibres may contribute to the enhanced excitability of the low-threshold sensory neurons after peripheral nerve injury.
Peripheral tissue injury-induced central sensitization may result from the altered biochemical properties of spinal dorsal horn. However, peripheral nerve injury-induced modification of genes in the dorsal horn remains largely unknown. Here we identified strong changes of 14 channels, 25 receptors and 42 signal transduction related molecules in Sprague-Dawley rat dorsal spinal cord 14 days after peripheral axotomy by cDNA microarray. Twenty-nine genes were further confirmed by semiquantitative RT-PCR, Northern blotting, in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry. These regulated genes included Ca2+ channel alpha1E and alpha2/delta1 subunits, alpha subunits for Na+ channel 1 and 6, Na+ channel beta subunit, AMAP receptor GluR3 and 4, GABAA receptor alpha5 subunit, nicotinic acetylcholine receptor alpha5 and beta2 subunits, PKC alpha, betaI and delta isozymes, JNK1-3, ERK2-3, p38 MAPK and BatK and Lyn tyrosine-protein kinases, indicating that several signal transduction pathways were activated in dorsal spinal cord by peripheral nerve injury. These results demonstrate that peripheral nerve injury causes phenotypic changes in spinal dorsal horn. Increases in Ca2+ channel alpha2/delta1 subunit, GABAA receptor alpha5 subunit, Na+ channels and nicotinic acetylcholine receptors in both dorsal spinal cord and dorsal root ganglia indicate their potential roles in neuropathic pain control.
Up-regulation of growth-associated proteins in adult neurons promotes axon regeneration and neuritic elongation onto nonpermissive substrates. To investigate the interaction between these molecules and myelin-related inhibitory factors, we examined transgenic mice in which overexpression of the growth-associated protein GAP-43 is driven by the Purkinje cell-specific promoter L7. Contrary to their wild-type counterparts, which have extremely poor regenerative capabilities, axotomized transgenic Purkinje cells exhibit profuse sprouting along the intracortical neurite and at the severed stump [Buffo et al. (1997) J. Neurosci., 17, 8778-8791]. Here, we investigated the relationship between such sprouting axons and oligodendroglia to ask whether GAP-43 overexpression enables Purkinje neurites to overcome myelin-derived inhibition. Intact transgenic Purkinje axons display normal morphology and myelination. Following injury, however, many GAP-43-overexpressing neurite stumps are devoid of myelin cover and sprout into white matter regions containing densely packed myelin and Nogo-A- or MAG-immunopositive oligodendrocytes. The intracortical segments of these neurites show focal accumulations of GAP-43, which are associated with disrupted or retracted myelin sheaths. Numerous sprouts originate from such demyelinated segments and spread into the granular layer. Some myelin loss, though not axon sprouting, is also evident in wild-type mice, but this phenomenon is definitely more rapid and extensive in transgenic cerebella. Thus, GAP-43-overexpressing Purkinje axons are endowed with enhanced capabilities for growing into nonpermissive territories and show a pronounced tendency to lose myelin. Our observations suggest that accumulation of GAP-43 along precise axon segments disrupts the normal axon-glia interaction and enhances the retraction of oligodendrocytic processes to facilitate the outgrowth of neuritic sprouts.
The ability to regulate transgene expression will be crucial for development of gene therapy to the brain. The most commonly used systems are based on a transactivator in combination with a drug, e.g. the tetracycline-regulated system. Here we describe a different method of transgene regulation by the use of the human glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) promoter. We constructed a lentiviral vector that directs transgene expression to astrocytes. Using toxin-induced lesions we investigated to what extent transgene expression could be regulated in accordance with the activation of the endogenous GFAP gene. In animals receiving excitotoxic lesions of the striatum we detected an eightfold increase of green fluorescent protein (GFP)-expressing cells. The vast majority of these cells did not divide, suggesting that the transgene was indeed regulated in a similar fashion as the endogenous GFAP gene. This finding will lead to the development of lentiviral vectors with autoregulatory capacities that may be very useful for gene therapy to the brain.
Previous studies have reported learning-related changes in neuronal activity during conditional visuomotor learning, also known as arbitrary sensorimotor mapping, conditional visual discrimination, and symbolic or endogenous mapping. Qualitatively similar observations have been reported for the dorsal premotor cortex, the supplementary eye field, the prefrontal cortex, the hippocampus, the striatum and the globus pallidus. The fact that cells in both the dorsal premotor cortex (PMd) and the basal ganglia show changes in activity during associative learning enables a test of the hypothesis that cortex and basal ganglia function in distributed architectures known as cortical-basal ganglionic modules or 'loops'. We reasoned that if these loops represent functional entities, as proposed, then learning-related changes in activity should occur simultaneously in both the cortical and striatal nodes of a loop. The present results confirmed this prediction; as monkeys learned conditional visuomotor associations, neurons in the premotor cortex and associated parts of the putamen changed their rates at approximately the same time. For the largest number of neurons, the evolution in neural activity occurred in close correspondence to the monkeys' learning curves. As a population, however, learning-related changes in activity continued after the monkeys reached an asymptote in performance.
Cerebellar long-term depression (LTD) at parallel fibre-Purkinje cell (P-cell) synapses is thought to embody neuronal information storage for motor learning. Transgenic L7-protein kinase C inhibitor (PKCI) mice in which cerebellar LTD is selectively blocked do indeed exhibit impaired adaptation in the vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR) while their default oculomotor performance is unaffected. Although supportive, these data do not definitively establish a causal link between memory storage required for motor learning and cerebellar LTD. As the L7-PKCI transgene is probably activated from the early stages of P-cell development, an alternative could be that P-cells develop abnormal signals in L7-PKCI mutants, disturbing mechanisms of motor learning that rely on proper P-cell outputs. To test this alternative hypothesis, we studied simple spike (SS) and complex spike (CS) activity of vertical axis P-cells in the flocculus of L7-PKCI mice and their wild-type littermates during sinusoidal optokinetic stimulation. Both SS and CS discharge dynamics appeared to be very similar in wild-type and transgenic P-cells at all stimulus frequencies (0.05-0.8 Hz). The CS activity of all vertical axis cells increased with contralateral stimulus rotation and lagged ipsiversive eye velocity by 165-180 degrees. The SS modulation was roughly reciprocal to the CS modulation and lagged ipsiversive eye velocity by approximately 15 degrees. The baseline SS and CS discharge characteristics were indistinguishable between the two genotypes. We conclude that the impaired VOR learning in L7-PKCI mutants does not reflect fundamental aberrations of the cerebellar circuitry. The data thus strengthen the evidence that cerebellar LTD is implicated in rapid VOR learning but not in the development of normal default response patterns.
The antinociceptive effects of Delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol (Delta9-THC) have been widely described; however, its therapeutic potential may be limited by secondary effects. We investigated whether coadministration of low doses of cannabinoids or cannabinoids and morphine produced antinociception in the absence of side-effects. Effects of preadministration (i.p.) of Delta9-THC (1 or 2.5 mg/kg), cannabidiol (5 mg/kg), morphine (2 mg/kg), Delta9-THC + morphine, Delta9-THC + cannabidiol or vehicle on formalin-evoked nociceptive behaviour were studied over 60 min. Trunk blood and brains were collected 60 min after formalin injection and assayed for corticosterone and tissue levels of monoamines and metabolites, respectively. Drug effects on locomotor activity, core body temperature and grooming were assessed. Delta9-THC reduced both phases of formalin-evoked nociceptive behaviour, enhanced the formalin-evoked corticosterone response and increased the 4-hydroxy-3-methoxyphenylglycol : noradrenaline ratio in the hypothalamus. Cannabidiol alone had no effect on these indices and did not modulate the effects of Delta9-THC. Morphine reduced both phases of formalin-evoked nociceptive behaviour. Coadministration of Delta9-THC and morphine reduced the second phase of formalin-evoked nociceptive behaviour to a greater extent than either drug alone, and increased levels of thalamic 5-hydroxytryptamine. While the antinociceptive effects of Delta9-THC and morphine alone occurred at doses devoid of effects on locomotor activity, coadministration of Delta9-THC and morphine inhibited locomotor activity. In conclusion, coadministration of a low dose of morphine, but not cannabidiol, with Delta9-THC, increased antinociception and 5-hydroxytryptamine levels in the thalamus in a model of persistent nociception. Nevertheless, these enhanced antinociceptive effects were associated with increased secondary effects on locomotor activity.
Hyperpolarization-activated channels (Ih) are widely expressed in the nervous system and believed to play an important role in the regulation of membrane excitability and rhythmic activity. Recent evidence suggests that Ih may be involved in long-term potentiation (LTP) in the hippocampus; however, the results are controversial. To explore the possible causes of these differing results, the effects of Ih blockers on synaptic activity were evaluated in mouse hippocampal slices. ZD7288 (20 micro m), a selective Ih blocker, apparently prevented the induction of LTP, while Cs+ (1 mm), a commonly used Ih blocker, had no effect on LTP at hippocampal perforant path-dentate granule cell synapses. In addition, ZD7288 but not Cs+ abolished basal synaptic transmission. Results from voltage-clamp experiments showed that ZD7288 produced a very little inhibition on hyperpolarization-activated currents, indicating a weak expression of the Ih in granule neurons. Outside-out patch recordings revealed that ZD7288 inhibited glutamate receptor-mediated responses, while Cs+ had no effect on them. Meanwhile, ZD7288 reduced both alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate and N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor-mediated excitatory postsynaptic currents. The results suggest that ZD7288-induced reduction of synaptic transmission may result from its inhibition of the postsynaptic glutamate receptors on dentate granule neurons.
Many painful conditions are associated with alterations in the extracellular matrix (ECM) of affected tissues. While several integrins, the receptors for ECM proteins, are present on sensory neurons that mediate pain, the possible role of these cell adhesion molecules in inflammatory or neuropathic pain has not been explored. We found that the intradermal injection of peptide fragments of domains of laminin and fibronectin important for adhesive signaling selectively inhibited the hyperalgesia caused by prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) and epinephrine (EPI), respectively. The block of EPI hyperalgesia was mimicked by other peptides containing the RGD integrin-binding sequence. Monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) against the alpha1 or alpha3 integrin subunits, which participate in laminin binding, selectively blocked PGE2 hyperalgesia, while a mAb against the alpha5 subunit, which participates in fibronectin binding, blocked only EPI-induced hyperalgesia. A mAb against the beta1 integrin subunit, common to receptors for both laminin and fibronectin, inhibited hyperalgesia caused by both agents, as did the knockdown of beta1 integrin expression by intrathecal injection of antisense oligodeoxynucleotides. The laminin peptide, but not the fibronectin peptides, also reversibly abolished the longer lasting inflammatory hyperalgesia induced by carrageenan. Finally, the neuropathic hyperalgesia caused by systemic administration of the cancer chemotherapy agent taxol was reversibly inhibited by antisense knockdown of beta1 integrin. These results strongly implicate specific integrins in the maintenance of inflammatory and neuropathic hyperalgesia.
The immature brain is prone to seizures but the underlying mechanisms are poorly understood. We explored the hypothesis that increased seizure susceptibility during early development is due to the excitatory action of GABA. Using noninvasive extracellular field potential and cell-attached recordings in CA3 of Sprague-Dawley rat hippocampal slices, we compared the developmental alterations in three parameters: excitatory actions of GABA, presence of the immature pattern of giant depolarizing potentials (GDPs) and severity of epileptiform activity generated by high potassium. The GABA(A) receptor agonist isoguvacine increased firing of CA3 pyramidal cells in neonatal slices while inhibiting activity in adults. A switch in the GABA(A) signalling from excitation to inhibition occurred at postnatal day (P) 13.5 +/- 0.4. Field GDPs were present in the form of spontaneous population bursts until P12.7 +/- 0.3. High potassium (8.5 mm) induced seizure-like events (SLEs) in 35% of slices at P7-16 (peak at P11.3 +/- 0.4), but only interictal activity before and after that age. The GABA(A) receptor antagonist bicuculline reduced the frequency or completely blocked SLEs and induced interictal clonic-like activity accompanied by a reduction in the frequency but an increase in the amplitude of the population spikes. In slices with interictal activity, bicuculline typically caused a large amplitude interictal clonic-like activity at all ages; in slices from P5-16 rats it was often preceded by one SLE at the beginning of bicuculline application. These results suggest that, in the immature hippocampus, GABA exerts dual (both excitatory and inhibitory) actions and that the excitatory component in the action of GABA may contribute to increased excitability during early development.
After spinal cord injury (SCI), surviving white matter axons display axonal dysfunction associated with demyelination and altered K+ channel activity. To clarify the molecular basis of posttraumatic axonal pathophysiology after SCI, we investigated the changes in expression and distribution of the axonal K+ channel subunits Kv1.1 and Kv1.2 in spinal cord white matter after in vivo SCI in the rat. Using Western blot analysis, we found an increased expression of Kv1.1 and Kv1.2 at 2 and 6 weeks after SCI. By real-time PCR we observed an increase in Kv1.1 and Kv1.2 mRNA levels 1 day after SCI, which persisted until 6 weeks. Confocal immunohistochemistry showed a markedly dispersed labelling of Kv1.1 and Kv1.2 along the injured axons, in contrast to the tight localization of these channels to the juxtaparanodes of noninjured axons. This redistribution of Kv1.1 and Kv1.2 occurred as early as 1 h postinjury along some injured axons, and persisted at 6 weeks postinjury. In parallel with the redistribution of Kv1.1 and 1.2, contactin-associated protein (Caspr), which is normally confined to a paranodal location, also displayed a more diffuse distribution along the injured spinal cord axons. Our results suggest that the increased expression of Kv1.1 and Kv1.2 proteins is transcriptionally regulated. In contrast, the redistribution of the axonal K+ channel subunits occurs very early postinjury and probably reflects a disruption of the juxtaparanodal axonal region due to physical trauma, as shown by altered localization of Caspr.
Research findings that link personality factors to functioning and symptoms in schizophrenia are inconsistent, and further studies are needed within the area. The purpose of this study was to investigate how personality, as measured by the Temperament and Character Inventory (TCI), was related to demographic factors, subtypes of diagnoses, level of functioning, and aspects of psychological health, including sense of coherence, perceived control, and self-esteem, among people with schizophrenia. Subjects were 104 individuals, aged 20-55 years, in psychiatric outpatient care. The results indicated that personality was not related to subtypes of diagnoses or demographic characteristics of the respondents, but to level of functioning and all aspects of psychological health. Especially self-directedness distinguished three groups of functioning and was highly correlated with the different aspects of psychological health. The article discusses how knowledge of schizophrenic patients' personality structure might be used for tailoring psychiatric treatments.

The ability to coordinate the two hands effectively is a fundamental requirement for many everyday tasks. To investigate how bimanual coordination is achieved we asked subjects to perform discrete bimanual key-press responses under conditions in which the motoric (i.e., muscles employed) and external spatial (i.e., direction of movement in external space) relationships between the actions of the left and right index fingers were systematically varied. Subjects made simultaneous right and left index finger key-presses in response to an auditory tone. The right finger always made downward flexion movements whilst the left finger either flexed in a downward/upward direction, or extended in a downward/upward direction. Unimanual control trials of each movement type for both hands were also performed. Reaction times for each hand (RTs) and the inter-response interval (IRI) were recorded. Right hand RTs were significantly affected only when the left finger performed motorically different actions, but were unaffected by the external spatial direction in which the left hand's actions were made. The IRI results followed a similar pattern with the worst coordination (highest IRI) occurring when the left finger performed different motor actions to the right finger regardless of the direction of the left hand movement. In contrast to other recent results from experiments examining oscillatory tasks (e.g., Mechsner et al. 2001), our results suggest that in discrete tasks there is a dominance of the motor relationship between the hands over the external spatial relationship.
Cognitive regulation enables a subject to plan actions according to context and to respond in a flexible manner to environmental conditions. This implies that foreknowledge about a change in system configuration will trigger preparatory activity in anticipation of the impending transformation. In the present study, we evaluate a unimanual task under two performance conditions that affected the cognitive context, and examine modulations in cortico-cortical interactions as determined by EEG coherence. The right hand movement was performed in an experimental paradigm that necessitated in some trials a voluntary and predictable switch towards a left hand movement, whereas in other trials no switch was required and movement of the right hand continued. The data showed that execution of the right hand movement was associated with an increased degree of task-related coherence in the alpha frequency band (8-12 Hz) in the switching as compared to the no switching condition, and this was most apparent for fronto-parietal connections of the movement-driving (left) as well as for the primed (right) hemisphere. For the primed hemisphere, we observed that the information flow was driven from the F4 electrode overlying the prefrontal area, which suggests that anticipatory preplanning occurred. These data indicate that higher-order cognitive operations bias cortico-cortical interactions in respect of an upcoming switch of the task settings between effectors by recruiting neural resources proactively. Dynamic adjustments in the alpha band suggest that low frequency activity is a characteristic of distributed information processing related to movement planning.
Heat shock protein 70 (Hsp70) is induced in cells by a variety of stress conditions, is known to be cytoprotective, and has been proposed to be neuroprotective during brain ischemia. A recently developed mouse model of 12-min global cerebral ischemia by bilateral common carotid artery occlusion with artificial ventilation and bilateral monitoring of regional cerebral blood flow by laser Doppler was applied. We examined the expression and possible neuroprotective role of the inducible form of Hsp70 in the mouse brain following global cerebral ischemia. Ischemia induced a marked expression of Hsp70 in the ischemia vulnerable CA1-CA3 region of the hippocampus. Intraischemic hypothermia (33 degrees C) prevented cell damage without noticeable expression of Hsp70. A transgenic mouse overexpressing Hsp70 was subjected to 12 min of global cerebral ischemia, and the brain damage was evaluated after 4 days. No neuroprotection of ischemia-induced brain damage in hippocampus, striatum, cortex or thalamus was found in Hsp70 transgenic animals compared with wild-type littermate mice. We suggest that overexpression of Hsp70 following cerebral ischemia is an indicator of cell stress. Also, constitutively overexpression of Hsp70 is insufficient to effectively influence cell death after global cerebral ischemia in the mouse.
Previous research has shown that under certain conditions environmental cues associated with morphine administration induce drug-opposite conditioned effects that mimic symptoms of opiate withdrawal. R. V. McDonald and S. Siegel (see record 2004-10475-001) extend these observations by demonstrating that acute exposure to a low dose of morphine induces symptoms of opiate withdrawal in rats previously exposed to a high dose of morphine. They hypothesized that early drug onset cues, repeatedly paired with later, larger drug effects, mediate the paradoxical effect of the low drug dose on behavior. They also hypothesized that conditioned withdrawal symptoms induced by the early drug onset cues may mediate the &quot;priming&quot; effect of drugs on relapse and craving. The authors of this comment discuss the degree to which the literature supports this hypothesis.

The cytoplasmic C-terminus of APP plays critical roles in its cellular trafficking and delivery to proteases. Adaptor proteins with phosphotyrosine-binding (PTB) domains, including those in the X11, Fe65, and c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK)-interacting protein (JIP) families, bind specifically to the absolutely conserved -YENPTY- motif in the APP C-terminus to regulate its trafficking and processing. Compounds that modulate APP-adaptor protein interactions may inhibit Abeta generation by specifically targeting the substrate (APP) instead of the enzyme (beta- or gamma-secretase). Genetic polymorphisms in (or near) adaptor proteins may influence risk of sporadic AD by interacting with APP in vivo to modulate its trafficking and processing to Abeta.
Anaplastic oligodendroglial tumours (oligodendrogliomas and oligoastro-cytomas) have a definite better prognosis than diffuse astrocytic gliomas (glioblastomas and anaplastic astrocytomas). Surgery relieves neurological symptoms and provides tissue for classification, grading and molecular characterisation of the tumour. Historically, radiation therapy has been the sole postoperative treatment for patients with anaplastic oligodendroglial tumours, but this policy has been challenged in the last few years by the discovery that these tumours are chemosensitive. Procarbazine, lomustine and vincristine (PCV) and temozolomide are the most active drugs, but it is still unclear which is the best first-line regimen. The most appropriate timing for chemotherapy (neoadjuvant, adjuvant, at recurrence) is unknown and is currently being explored in prospective studies. The goals of neoadjuvant chemotherapy (PCV, temozolomide, high-dose alkylating agents with stem cell rescue) are to defer radiotherapy or to reduce the radiation fields for a conformal treatment in responding patients. Molecular genetic analysis is increasingly employed for both diagnostic and prognostic purposes. Loss of heterozygosity on 1p and 19q is the key alteration for predicting the prognosis and the response to chemotherapy.

Innate immune cells express toll-like receptor-9 (TLR9) and respond to unmethylated, CG dinucleotide motif-rich DNA released from bacteria during infection or endogenous cells during autoimmune tissue injury. Oligonucleotides containing CG dinucleotide (CpG-DNA) mimic the effect of unmethylated DNA and stimulate TLR9. CpG-DNA was cytotoxic to neurons in organotypic brain cultures. Neurotoxicity of CpG-DNA was mediated via microglial cells and started primarily from neurites as determined by time-lapse imaging of enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP)-transfected neurons. Cultured brain microglial cells expressed TLR9 and responded to CpG-DNA by production of the inflammatory mediators nitric oxide (NO) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha). Blockade of NO synthase and TNF-alpha prevented damage of neurites and neurotoxicity of CpG-DNA. The data suggest that stimulation of microglia via TLR9 and subsequent release of NO and TNF-alpha is a major source of neurotoxicity in bacterial and autoimmune brain tissue injury.
Olfactory ensheathing cells (OECs) have been shown to mediate remyelination and to stimulate axonal regeneration in a number of in vivo rodent spinal cord studies. However, whether OECs display similar properties in the primate model has not been tested so far. In the present study, we thus transplanted highly-purified OECs isolated from transgenic pigs expressing the alpha1,2 fucosyltransferase gene (H-transferase or HT) gene into a demyelinated lesion of the African green monkey spinal cord. Four weeks posttransplantation, robust remyelination was found in 62.5% of the lesion sites, whereas there was virtually no remyelination in the nontransplanted controls. This together with the immunohistochemical demonstration of the grafted cells within the lesioned area confirmed that remyelination was indeed achieved by OECs. Additional in vitro assays demonstrated 1) that the applied cell suspension consisted of &gt;98% OECs, 2) that the majority of the cells expressed the transgene, and 3) that expression of the HT gene reduced complement activation more than twofold compared with the nontransgenic control. This is the first demonstration that xenotransplantation of characterized OECs into the primate spinal cord results in remyelination.
The causes and consequences of ageing are likely to be complex and involve the interaction of many processes. It has been proposed that the decline in mitochondrial function caused by the accumulation of oxidatively damaged molecules plays a significant role in the ageing process. In agreement with previous reports we have shown that the activities of NADH CoQ1 reductase and cytochrome oxidase declined with increasing age in both rat liver and gastrocnemius muscle mitochondria. However, only in the liver were the changes in lipid peroxidation and membrane fluidity suggestive of an age-related increase in oxidative stress. After 12 weeks on a vitamin E deficient diet, vitamin E levels were undetectable in both gastrocnemius muscle and liver. In skeletal muscle, this was associated with a statistically significant increase in lipid peroxidation, a decrease in cytochrome oxidase activity after 48 weeks, and an exacerbation in the age-related rate of decline of NADH CoQ1 reductase activity. This was consistent with the suggestion that an imbalance between free radical generation and antioxidant defence may contribute to the mitochondrial dysfunction with age. In contrast to this, vitamin E deficiency in the liver caused a significant increase in mitochondrial respiratory chain activities with increasing age despite evidence of increased lipid peroxidation. Comparison of other features in these samples suggested vitamin E deficiency; did not have a significant impact upon mtDNA translation; induced a compensatory increase in glutathione levels in muscle, which was less marked in the liver, but probably most interestingly caused a significant decrease in the mitochondrial membrane fluidity in muscle but not in liver mitochondria. These data suggest that while increased lipid peroxidation exacerbated the age-related decline in muscle respiratory chain function this relationship was not observed in liver. Consequently other factors are likely to be contributing to the age-related decline in mitochondrial function and specific stimuli may influence or even reverse these age-related effects as observed with vitamin E deficiency in the liver.

The C57BL/6JOlaHsd and 129S2/SvHsd mice were tested in a battery designed for behavioral phenotyping of genetically modified mice. The study was performed in order to reveal the effect of training history on the behavior by comparison with the experimentally naive mice in the same tests. Significant strain differences were obtained in all experiments. Previous handling and testing reduced exploratory activity and emotionality significantly in the mice. The coordination ability was better and nociceptive sensitivity was increased in the trained mice. The contextual fear was reduced whereas the cued fear was enhanced in the experienced mice. The training history did not alter initial learning in the water maze. However, after reversal learning the naive mice displayed significant preference for both old and new platform locations, whereas the battery animals did not exhibit preference to the old location. The experienced mice appeared to be less active in the forced swimming test and exhibited decreased conditioned taste aversion. The influence of test history was strain-dependent in certain cases. Therefore, the experience has substantial consequences on the behavior, mainly by reducing exploratory activity, and the previous experience of the animals has always to be considered in the analysis of genetically modified mice.
We previously mapped quantitative trait loci (QTL) responsible for approximately 26% of the genetic variance in acute alcohol and barbiturate (i.e., pentobarbital) withdrawal convulsion liability to a &lt; 1 cM (1.8 Mb) interval of mouse chromosome 4. To date, Mpdz, which encodes the multiple PSD95/DLG/ZO-1 (PDZ) domain protein (MPDZ), is the only gene within the interval shown to have allelic variants that differ in coding sequence and/or expression, making it a strong candidate gene for the QTL. Previous work indicates that Mpdz haplotypes in standard mouse strains encode distinct protein variants (MPDZ1-3), and that MPDZ status is genetically correlated with severity of withdrawal from alcohol and pentobarbital. Here, we report that MPDZ status cosegregates with withdrawal convulsion severity in lines of mice selectively bred for phenotypic differences in severity of acute withdrawal from alcohol [i.e., High Alcohol Withdrawal (HAW) and Low Alcohol Withdrawal (LAW) lines] or pentobarbital [High Pentobarbital Withdrawal (HPW) and Low Pentobarbital Withdrawal (LPW) lines]. These analyses confirm that MPDZ status is associated with severity of alcohol and pentobarbital withdrawal convulsions. Using a panel of standard inbred strains of mice, we assessed the association between MPDZ status with seizures induced by nine chemiconvulsants. Our results show that MPDZ status is genetically correlated with seizure sensitivity to pentylenetetrazol, kainate and other chemiconvulsants. Our results provide evidence that Mpdz may have pleiotropic effects on multiple seizure phenotypes, including seizures associated with withdrawal from two classes of central nervous system (CNS) depressants and sensitivity to specific chemiconvulsants that affect glutaminergic and GABAergic neurotransmission.
Overexpression of the short isoform of p53 (p44) has unexpectedly uncovered a role for p53 in the regulation of size and life span in the mouse. Hyperactivation of the insulin-like growth factor (IGF) signaling axis by p44 sets in motion a kinase cascade that clamps potentially unimpeded growth through p21Cip1. This suggests that pathways of gene activity known to regulate longevity in lower organisms are linked in mammals via p53 to mechanisms for controlling cell proliferation. Thus, appropriate expression of the short and long p53 isoforms might maintain a balance between tumor suppression and tissue regeneration, a major requisite for long mammalian life span.
Malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumors (MPNSTs) are invasive peripheral nerve neoplasms that express both the receptor tyrosine kinase c-Met and its ligand hepatocyte growth factor (HGF). The combined expression of these proteins has been implicated in tumor cell growth and metastasis. However, HGF/c-Met autocrine activity requires the presence of a serine protease, the HGF activator (HGFA), and, in some cells, the CD44 transmembrane glycoprotein. Here, we found that HGFA, HGF, c-Met, and CD44 are coexpressed in MPNSTs but their localization did not correlate with increased cell proliferation. The ST8814 MPNST cell line also expresses all of these proteins, can convert pro-HGF to active HGF, and exhibits constitutive c-Met phosphorylation. Blocking c-Met activity or expression inhibits the invasive behavior of these cells but not their proliferation. Interestingly, although a CD44 splice variant contributes to MPNST cell invasion and interacts with c-Met and HGF in ST8814 cells, it is not required for c-Met activation. These data indicate that an HGF/c-Met autocrine loop can promote MPNST invasion through a CD44-independent mechanism and suggest that c-Met, HGFA, and HGF are potential molecular targets to inhibit MPNST metastasis.
Previous imaging studies have used mostly perceptually abstracted, idealized, or static stimuli to show segregation of function in the cerebral cortex. We wanted to learn whether functional segregation is maintained during more natural, complex, and dynamic conditions when many features have to be processed simultaneously, and identify regions whose activity correlates with the perception of specific features. To achieve this, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to measure brain activity when human observers viewed freely dynamic natural scenes (a James Bond movie). The intensity with which they perceived different features (color, faces, language, and human bodies) was assessed psychometrically in separate sessions. In all subjects different features were perceived with a high degree of independence over time. We found that the perception of each feature correlated with activity in separate, specialized areas whose activity also varied independently. We conclude that even in natural conditions, when many features have to be processed simultaneously, functional specialization is preserved. Our method thus opens a new way of brain mapping, which allows the localization of a multitude of brain areas based on a single experiment using uncontrolled, natural stimuli. Furthermore, our results show that the intensity of activity in a specialized area is linearly correlated with the intensity of its perceptual experience. This leads us to suggest that each specialized area is directly responsible for the creation of a feature-specific conscious percept (a microconsciousness). Hum. Brain Mapp. 21:75-83, 2004.
Anophthalmia and microphthalmia are among the most common ocular birth defects and a significant cause of congenital blindness. The etiology of anophthalmia and microphthalmia is diverse, with multiple genetic mutations associated with each of these conditions, along with potential environmental causes. Based on findings that mutations in the Rx/Rax homeobox genes in mice and fish lead to defects in retinal development and result in animal models of anophthalmia, we screened 75 individuals with anophthalmia and/or microphthalmia for mutations in the human RAX gene. We identified a single proband from this population who is a compound heterozygote for mutations in the RAX gene. This individual carries a truncated allele (Q147X) and a missense mutation (R192Q), both within the DNA-binding homeodomain of the RAX protein, and we have characterized the biochemical properties of these mutations in vitro. Parents and grandparents of the proband were found to be carriers without visible ocular defects, consistent with an autosomal recessive inheritance pattern. This is the first report of genetic mutations in the human RAX gene.
A new competitive inhibition immunoassay (group-selective immunoassay; GSI) has been developed to detect free morphine in urine with the Fab' fragments of monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) (1B(12)F(9)B(4), IgG(1), kappa, K(aff) = 9.66 x 10(10)M(-1)). At the first assay step, microtiter plates were coated with morphine-ovalbumin (M-6-S-OVA), in which free amino acids were protected by a glutaraldehyde cross-linking modification. The modification did not essentially influence the antibody-binding capacity of the immunosorbent. At the second assay step, anti-morphine MAbs' Fab' fragments, in which free amino groups were biotinylated by N-hydrosuccinimide-biotin ester, were bound to chemically modified immunosorbent. The biotin residues were then detected by the streptavidin-peroxide conjugate. This method has a sensitivity of 3.50 x 10(-15) mol/L using very little volume of sample, covering up to almost 1.20 x 10(-11) mol/L of standard concentration of morphine with good reproducibility. Standard curve prepared in urine indicated a good correlation between the concentration of morphine and the value of OD (y = 1/ax + b; r = 0.99939257, S = 0.01138127). Coefficients of variation for this immunoassay were 1.41 approximately 6.61% within-a-day assay and 2.31 approximately 8.99% between days assay. The recoveries were 94 approximately 101.4% from negative urine and 95.2 approximately 107.5% from positive urine samples, respectively. This method has application as a specific screen for morphine in drug abusers, to study the metabolism of the drug in the body, or to screen the monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) against morphine.
This study tested the hypothesis that depressor responses caused by tempol are not associated with reductions in vascular O2- levels in urethane-anesthetized deoxycorticosterone acetate (DOCA)-salt hypertensive rats. We compared the effects of intravenous (IV) administration of tempol, apocynin, superoxide dismutase-polyethylene glycol (PEG-SOD), and SOD on mean arterial blood pressure (MAP), heart rate (HR), and renal sympathetic nerve activity (RSNA). In DOCA-salt rats, tempol (30 to 300 micromol/kg) dose-dependently decreased RSNA, MAP, and HR. Tempol (300 micromol/kg) decreased MAP from 140+/-5 to 83+/-4 mm Hg (P&lt;0.05). HR decreased from 435+/-15 to 390+/-12 bpm (P&lt;0.05). RSNA was reduced by 54%+/-6% from baseline. However, in the same rats, tempol did not reduce dihydroethidium-induced fluorescent signals in the aorta and vena cava. Apocynin (200 micromol/kg) did not lower MAP (142+/-5 mm Hg versus 140+/-6 mm Hg) or HR (428+/-15 bpm versus 420+/-13 bpm) and apocynin did not potentiate depressor responses caused by tempol. PEG-SOD (10 000 U/kg, bolus or 5000 U/kg bolus followed by a 30-minutes infusion of 500 U/kg/min) or SOD (25 000 U/kg, bolus or 10 000 U/kg bolus followed by a 30-minutes infusion of 1000 U/kg per minute) did not alter MAP or HR. It is concluded that depressor responses and decreases in HR and RSNA caused by acute tempol treatment are caused by direct sympathetic nerve activity inhibition that is not accompanied by SOD-mimetic action in the aorta or vena cava.
T cells expressing an invariant TCR alpha chain and NK cell markers are expected to exhibit unique functions. Whereas much attention has been paid to CD1d-restricted NKT cells, a second NKT cell population bearing an invariant AV19-AJ33 TCR has recently been identified in mice and humans. Selection and/or expansion of this population require B cells, and would involve a non-classical class I-related molecule MR1. Although their preferential distribution in the gut mucosa indicates their role in the host response at the site of pathogen entry, it remains unknown whether they play an alternative role at different sites or in immunological disorders. Using single-strand conformation polymorphism clonotype analysis, we investigated the presence of the human AV19-AJ33 T cells (V(alpha)7.2-J(alpha)33 T cells) in autopsy samples from multiple sclerosis (MS) patients as well as in nerve biopsy samples from chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP) patients. Here we report that the V(alpha)7.2-J(alpha)33 T cells are accumulated in some of the central nervous system lesions of MS and in the majority of the peripheral nerve samples from CIDP. We have previously revealed that CD1d-restricted, V(alpha)24-J(alpha)Q NKT cells are remarkably reduced in the peripheral blood from MS. However, V(alpha)7.2-J(alpha)33 T cells are not reduced in the peripheral blood from MS and could be detected in a large majority of the cerebrospinal fluid samples obtained during relapse of MS. The present results indicate that the V(alpha)7.2-J(alpha)33 T cells are involved in the autoimmune inflammatory lesions.


No clinical neurophysiology (CN) service is currently provided by the North-Western Health Board (NWHB) region in Ireland. Digital technology associated with CN is compatible with tele-neurophysiology service development and may increase the efficiency of patient care in remote areas. This study was conducted to assess the need for CN in the NWHB with a view to implementing a tele-neurophysiology service for the region. A retrospective audit of investigations performed at six CN departments in Dublin compared patient groups from regions with (Eastern Regional Health Authority--ERHA) and without (NWHB) local CN departments. 4954 records were audited. CN activity was lower than internationally expected (ERHA group 52% of expected, NWHB group 23% of expected). The 2 groups differ in the specialty of referring clinician (p &lt; 0.0001). NWHB patients are more likely to be referred by clinicians outside their region (p &lt; 0.0001) and wait longer for appointment (p &lt; 0.0001). While there is an unmet demand for CN services in Ireland generally, the population of the NWHB is further disadvantaged. Tele-neurophysiology has the potential to provide fairer access to CN services across the country. The data from this study provide a baseline against which the outcome of investment in CN can be monitored and evaluated.



This paper explores the mind-brain relationship, using insights from contemporary neuroscience. It seeks to investigate how our brains become who we are, how subjective experience arises. In order to do this some explanation is given of the basic concepts of how the brain produces our subjective mental life. Current neuropsychological and neurobiological understanding of early brain development, memory, emotion and consciousness are explored. There is also an attempt at mapping the mind-brain-self relationship from a uniquely Jungian perspective. Clinical material is included in order to show the relevance of these insights to our work in the consulting room, arguing the value of the affect-regulating, relational aspects of the analytic dyad that forge new neural pathways through emotional connection. Such experience forms the emotional scaffolding necessary for the emergence of reflective function.
Rapid eye movement (REM) sleep in the human declines from approximately 50% of total sleep time ( approximately 8 h) in the newborn to approximately 15% of total sleep time (approximately 1 h) in the adult, and this decrease takes place mainly between birth and the end of puberty. We hypothesize that without this developmental decrease in REM sleep drive, lifelong increases in REM sleep drive may ensue. In the rat, the developmental decrease in REM sleep occurs 10-30 days after birth, declining from &gt;70% of total sleep time in the newborn to the adult level of approximately 15% of sleep time during this period. Rats at 12-21 days of age were anesthetized with ketamine and decapitated, and brain stem slices were cut for intracellular recordings. We found that excitatory responses of pedunculopontine nucleus (PPN) neurons to N-methyl-D-aspartic acid decrease, while responses to kainic acid increase, over this critical period. During this developmental period, inhibitory responses to serotonergic type 1 agonists increase but responses to serotonergic type 2 agonists do not change. The results suggest that as PPN neurons develop, they are increasingly activated by kainic acid and increasingly inhibited by serotonergic type 1 receptors. These processes may be related to the developmental decrease in REM sleep. Developmental disturbances in each of these systems could induce differential increases in REM sleep drive, accounting for the postpubertal onset of a number of different disorders manifesting increases in REM sleep drive. Examination of modulation by PPN projections to ascending and descending targets revealed the presence of common signals modulating ascending arousal-related functions and descending postural/locomotor-related functions.
The objective of this review is to clarify the role of matching in family genetic studies of autism as a way of defining endophenotypes for linkage analysis. The concept of a confounding variable is reviewed and the importance of considering these in family studies of three endophenotypes in autism are considered: cognitive/language impairments, psychiatric disorders, and autistic-like traits. The importance of matching in infant sibling studies of autism is also addressed. Matching as a way of dealing with confounding variables has an important impact on understanding the extent to which these phenotypes are associated with the genes that confer susceptibility to autism and to the early detection of the disorder. Matching continues to be an important issue in the planning and conduct of family-genetic studies of the autism spectrum disorders, particularly as the search for autism susceptibility genes enters the next generation of studies.
This article describes a residency training track that was developed by the American Board of Psychiatry and Neurology to promote the career development of child neurologists who wanted to become researchers. In this pathway, 1 year of research in the basic neurosciences replaces 1 year of pediatrics or internal medicine. Since 1992, 38 residents from more than 20 training programs have been accepted into this pathway. Of the 28 who have completed residency training, 22 are in academic positions as faculty or fellows, and 6 are working in nonacademic hospital settings. Of these 22, 6 describe their research as basic, and 12 describe their research as being both basic and clinical; 15 have been successful in obtaining external funding. Thus far, these trainees have published more than 125 articles in peer-reviewed journals. Although small in scope, this training track has met its objective of producing clinician-scientists.
Human African trypanosomiasis (HAT), also known as sleeping sickness, is a major cause of mortality and morbidity in sub-Saharan Africa. Current therapy with melarsoprol for CNS HAT has unacceptable side-effects with an overall mortality of 5%. This review discusses the issues of diagnosis and staging of CNS disease, its neuropathogenesis, and the possibility of new therapies for treating late-stage disease.
Giant mucoceles of the frontal sinus are a rare pathology but their recognition is important in the differential diagnosis of paediatric proptosis and fronto-orbital lesions. Four patients with giant mucoceles of the frontal sinus were retrospectively analyzed. All the patients were females in the paediatric age group presenting with massive cosmetically unacceptable bony swelling in the frontal region along with unilateral extra-axial proptosis. Radiological imaging revealed giant mucoceles of the frontal sinus with extracranial, orbital and anterior cranial fossa extension. One patient had co-existent craniofacial fibrous dysplasia. Single stage surgery was performed in three patients and two-stage surgery in one. Fronto-orbital craniotomy, removal of the posterior wall of the sinus, obliteration of the sinus and its ostium, dural repair and remodeling cranioplasty were performed. Histopathological examination revealed mucoceles in all, and co-existant fibrous dysplasia in one patient. All the patients made excellent cosmetic recoveries with complete resolution of their visual symptoms. Their clinical presentation, radiological manifestations and treatment modalities are analyzed and an extensive review of the literature is presented. Our case of giant frontal mucocele associated with fibrous dysplasia is furthermore the first such report in the existing medical literature.



Goldfish swimming was analysed quantitatively to determine if it exhibits distinctive individual spatio-temporal patterns. Due to the inherent variability in fish locomotion, this hypothesis was tested using five nonlinear measures, complemented by mean velocity. A library was constructed of 75 trajectories, each of 5 min duration, acquired from five fish swimming in a constant and relatively homogeneous environment. Three nonlinear measures, the 'characteristic fractal dimension' and 'Richardson dimension', both quantifying the degree to which a trajectory departs from a straight line, and 'relative dispersion', characterizing the variance as a function of the duration, have coefficients of variation less than 7%, in contrast to mean velocity (30%). A discriminant analysis, or classification system, based on all six measures revealed that trajectories are indeed highly individualistic, with the probability that any two trajectories generated from different fish are equivalent being less than 1%. That is, the combination of these measures allows a given trajectory to be assigned to its source with a high degree of confidence. The Richardson dimension and the 'Hurst exponent', which quantifies persistence, were the most effective measures.

The contribution of air conduction auditory brainstem response (AC-ABR) testing in the paediatric population is widely accepted in clinical audiology. However, this does not allow for differentiation between conductive and sensorineural hearing loss. The purpose of this paper is to review the role of bone conduction auditory brainstem responses (BC-ABR). It is argued that despite such technical difficulties as a narrow dynamic range, masking dilemmas, stimulus artifact and low frequency underestimation of hearing loss, considerable evidence exists to suggest that BC-ABR testing provides an important contribution in the accurate assessment of hearing loss in infants. Modification of the BC-ABR protocol is discussed and the technical difficulties that may arise are addressed, permitting BC-ABR to be used as a tool in the differential diagnosis between conductive and sensorineural hearing. Two relevant case studies are presented to highlight the growing importance of appropriate management in early identification of hearing loss. It can be concluded that BC-ABR should be adopted as a routine clinical diagnostic tool.

The isoform-specific direct role of cytoplasmic loops in the gating of two voltage-gated sodium channel isoforms, the human cardiac channel (Na(v1.5); hH1) and the human adult skeletal muscle channel (Na(v1.4); hSkM1), was investigated. Comparison of biophysical characteristics was made among hSkM1, hH1, and several hSkM1/hH1 chimeras in which the putative cytoplasmic loops that join domain I to II (loop A) and domain II to III (loop B) from one isoform replaced one or both of the analogous loops from the other isoform. For all parameters measured, hSkM1 and hH1 behavior were significantly different. Comparison of hSkM1 and hH1 biophysical characteristics with the function of their respective chimeras indicate that only the half-activation voltage ( V(a)) is directly and differently altered by the species of cytoplasmic loop such that a channel consisting of one or both hSkM1 loops activates at smaller depolarizations, while a larger depolarization is required for activation of a channel containing one or both of the analogous hH1 loops. When either cardiac channel loop A or B is attached to hSkM1, a 6-7 mV depolarizing shift in V(a) is measured, increasing to a nearly 20 mV depolarization when both cardiac-channel loops are attached. The addition of either skeletal muscle-channel loop to hH1 causes a 7 mV hyperpolarization in V(a), which increases to about 10 mV for the double loop chimera. There is no significant difference in either steady-state inactivation or in the recovery from inactivation data between hSkM1 and its chimeras and between hH1 and its chimeras. Data indicate that the cytoplasmic loops contribute directly to the magnitude of the window current, suggesting that channels containing skeletal muscle loops have three times the peak persistent channel activity compared to channels containing the cardiac loops. An electrostatic mechanism, in which surface charge differences among these loops might alter differently the voltage sensed by the gating mechanism of the channel, can not account for the observed isoform-specific effects of these loops only on channel activation voltage. In summary, although the DI-DII and DII-DIII loop structures among isoforms are not well conserved, these data indicate that only one gating parameter, V(a) is affected directly and in an isoform-specific manner by these divergent loop structures, creating loop-specific window currents and percentages of persistently active channels at physiological voltages that will likely impact the excitability of the cell.
Two research groups have thus far reported a significant association between schizophrenia and a promoter polymorphism (-308G &gt; A) of the gene encoding tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha), while contradictive negative results have also been reported. We examined the possible association in a Japanese sample of 297 schizophrenia cases and 458 controls. Allele frequencies of both the patients and controls were very low (1.5% and 0.8%, respectively), and the difference was not statistically significant. We conclude that the effect of the -308G &gt; A polymorphism on the development of schizophrenia is, if any, weak and the majority of Japanese schizophrenics are unrelated to the -308G &gt; A polymorphism of the TNF-alpha gene.

Previous results suggest that extracellular dopamine (DA) in the rat cerebral cortex originates from dopaminergic and noradrenergic terminals. To further clarify this issue, dialysate DA, dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) and noradrenaline (NA) were measured both in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) and in the occipital cortex (OCC), with dense and scarce dopaminergic projections, respectively. Moreover, the effect of the alpha2-adrenoceptor antagonist RS 79948 and the D2-receptor antagonist haloperidol on extracellular DA, DOPAC and NA was investigated. Extracellular DA and DOPAC concentrations in the OCC were 43% and 9%, respectively, those in the mPFC. Haloperidol (0.1 mg/kg i.p.) increased DA and DOPAC (by 35% and 150%, respectively) in the mPFC, but was ineffective in the OCC. In contrast, RS 79948 (1.5 mg/kg i.p.) increased NA, DA and DOPAC, both in the mPFC (by approximately 50%, 60% and 130%, respectively) and the OCC (by approximately 50%, 80% and 200%, respectively). Locally perfused, the DA transporter blocker GBR 12909 (10 micro m) was ineffective in either cortex, whereas desipramine (DMI, 100 micro m) markedly increased extracellular NA and DA in both cortices. The weak haloperidol effect on DA efflux was not enhanced after DA- and NA-transporter blockade, whereas after DMI, RS 79948 markedly increased extracellular NA, and especially DA and DOPAC in both cortices. The results support the hypothesis that most extracellular DA in the cortex is co-released with NA from noradrenergic terminals, such co-release being primarily controlled by alpha2-adrenoceptors.
The phosphotyrosine binding domain of the neuronal protein X11alpha/mint-1 binds to the C-terminus of amyloid precursor protein (APP) and inhibits catabolism to beta-amyloid (Abeta), but the mechanism of this effect is unclear. Coexpression of X11alpha or its PTB domain with APPswe inhibited secretion of Abeta40 but not APPsbetaswe, suggesting inhibition of gamma- but not beta-secretase. To further probe cleavage(s) inhibited by X11alpha, we coexpressed beta-secretase (BACE-1) or a component of the gamma-secretase complex (PS-1Delta9) with APP, APPswe, or C99, with and without X11alpha, in HEK293 cells. X11alpha suppressed the PS-1Delta9-induced increase in Abeta42 secretion generated from APPswe or C99. However, X11alpha did not impair BACE-1-mediated proteolysis of APP or APPswe to C99. In contrast to impaired gamma-cleavage of APPswe, X11alpha or its PTB domain did not inhibit gamma-cleavage of NotchDeltaE to NICD (the Notch intracellular domain). The X11alpha PDZ-PS.1Delta9 interaction did not affect gamma-cleavage activity. In a cell-free system, X11alpha did not inhibit the catabolism of APP C-terminal fragments. These data suggest that X11alpha may inhibit Abeta secretion from APP by impairing its trafficking to sites of active gamma-secretase complexes. By specifically targeting substrate instead of enzyme X11alpha may function as a relatively specific gamma-secretase inhibitor.
Ionized calcium binding adaptor molecule 1 (Iba1) is a microglia/macrophage-specific calcium-binding protein. Iba1 has the actin-bundling activity and participates in membrane ruffling and phagocytosis in activated microglia. In order to understand the Iba1-related intracellular signalling pathway in greater detail, we employed a yeast two-hybrid screen to isolate an Iba1-interacting molecule and identified another actin-bundling protein, L-fimbrin. In response to stimulation, L-fimbrin accumulated and co-localized with Iba1 in membrane ruffles induced by M-CSF-stimulation and phagocytic cups formed by IgG-opsonized beads in microglial cell line MG5. L-fimbrin was shown to associate with Iba1 in cell lysate of COS-7 expressing L-fimbrin and Iba1. By using purified proteins, direct binding of Iba1 to L-fimbrin was demonstrated by immunoprecipitation, glutathione S-transferase pull-down assays and ligand overlay assays. The binding of Iba1 was also found to increase the actin-bundling activity of L-fimbrin. These results indicate that Iba1 forms complexes with L-fimbrin in membrane ruffles and phagocytic cups, and suggest that Iba1 co-operates with L-fimbrin in modulating actin reorganization to facilitate cell migration and phagocytosis by microglia.
We provide the first data that cathepsin B (Cath B), a lysosomal cysteine protease, is up-regulated following contusion-spinal cord injury (SCI). Following T12 laminectomy and moderate contusion, Cath B mRNA and protein expression profiles were examined from 2 to 168 h post-injury in rats using real-time PCR and immunoblots, respectively. Contusion injury significantly increased [mRNA]Cath B in the injury site and adjacent segments over sham injury levels. While the largest [mRNA]Cath B induction (20-fold over naive) was seen in the injury site, the caudal segment routinely yielded [mRNA]Cath B levels greater than 10-fold over naive. Interestingly, sham injury animals also experienced mRNA induction at several time points at the injury site and in segments rostral and caudal to the injury site. Contusion injury also significantly elevated levels of Cath B proenzyme protein (37 kDa) over sham injury in the injury site (48, 72 and 168 h post-injury). Furthermore, significant protein increases of single and double chain Cath B (both active forms) occurred at the injury site at 72 and 168 h post-injury. Similar significant increases in Cath B protein levels were seen in areas adjacent to the injury site. The induction of Cath B mRNA and protein expression following contusion injury is previously undescribed and suggests that Cath B may potentially be involved in the secondary injury cascade, perhaps for as long as 1 week post-injury.
Parenterally administered lipopolysaccharide (LPS) increases the concentration of the pro-inflammatory cytokine interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) in the rat hippocampus and evidence suggests that this effect plays a significant role in inhibiting long-term potentiation (LTP). The anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10, antagonizes certain effects of IL-1beta, so if the effects of LPS are mediated through an increase in IL-1beta, it might be predicted that IL-10 would also abrogate the effect of LPS. Here, we report that IL-10 reversed the inhibitory effect of LPS on LTP and the data couple this with an inhibitory effect on the LPS-induced increase in IL-1beta. LPS treatment increased hippocampal expression of IL-1 receptor Type I protein. Consistent with the LPS-induced increases in IL-1beta concentration and receptor expression, were downstream changes which included enhanced phosphorylation of IRAK and the stress-activated kinases, JNK and p38; these LPS-induced changes were reversed by IL-10, which concurs with the idea that these events are triggered by increased activation of IL-1RI by IL-1beta. We provide evidence which indicates that LPS treatment leads to evidence of cell death and this was reversed in hippocampus prepared from LPS-treated rats which received IL-10. The evidence is therefore consistent with the idea that IL-10 acts to protect neuronal tissue from the detrimental effects induced by LPS.
There is substantial evidence implicating both inflammation and mitochondrial dysfunction in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) pathogenesis. We investigated the therapeutic effects of cyclooxygenase 2 (COX-2) inhibitors both alone and in combination with creatine in the G93A transgenic mouse model of ALS. Oral administration of either celecoxib or rofecoxib significantly improved motor performance, attenuated weight loss and extended survival. The administration of COX-2 inhibitors significantly reduced prostaglandin E2 levels at 110 days of age. The combination of creatine with COX-2 inhibitors produced additive neuroprotective effects and extended survival by approximately 30%. The COX-2 inhibitors significantly protected against depletion of anterior horn motor neurons and creatine with COX-2 inhibitors showed greater protection than COX-2 inhibitors alone. These results suggest that combinations of therapies targeting different disease mechanisms may be a useful strategy in the treatment of ALS.
Dysfunction of the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) has been implicated in Parkinson's disease (PD) and other neurodegenerative disorders. We have investigated the effect of UPS inhibition on the metabolism of alpha-synuclein (SYN) and parkin, two proteins genetically and histopathologically associated to PD. Pharmacological inhibition of proteasome induced accumulation of both parkin and SYN in transfected PC12 cells. We found that this effect was caused by increased protein synthesis rather than impairment of protein degradation, suggesting that inhibition of the UPS might lead to non-specific up-regulation of cytomegalovirus (CMV)-driven transcription. To investigate whether endogenous parkin and SYN can be substrate of the UPS, untransfected PC12 cells and primary mesencephalic neurones were exposed to proteasome inhibitors, and parkin and SYN expression was evaluated at both protein and mRNA level. Under these conditions, we found that proteasome inhibitors did not affect the level of endogenous parkin and SYN. However, we confirmed that dopaminergic neurones were selectively vulnerable to the toxicity of proteasome inhibitors. Our results indicate that studies involving the use of proteasome inhibitors, particularly those in which proteins are expressed from a heterologous promoter, are subjected to potential artefacts that need to be considered for the interpretation of the role of UPS in PD pathogenesis.
Research over the past decade has shown that the rods and cones are not the only photoreceptors of the eye. There also exists a population of directly light sensitive ganglion cells that act as brightness detectors and regulate a wide variety of different photosensory tasks, including the regulation of 24-h circadian clocks, synthesis of the hormone melatonin, pupil size and behaviour. These receptors may even help modulate our mood and sense of well-being.
This study aimed to investigate whether there are differences in serum testosterone levels between male patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and cognitively normal male controls. Testosterone and sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG) levels were measured from 14 patients with mild to moderate AD and 16 age-matched control males. The AD patients had higher levels of serum total (P = 0.02) and free testosterone (P &lt; 0.001), and higher free androgen index (FAI) (P = 0.02) compared to controls. No differences were found for the SHBG levels. These data provide no support for hypotheses of (disproportionally) decreased levels of serum testosterone in AD. These data also show that all cognitively normal controls had an FAI below the normal range.
This review summarizes some of the major points discussed by participants in the symposium session on effects of drugs of abuse on both neurologic and immune systems. Speakers in this session are acknowledged experts and biomedical scientists in the rapidly expanding field of studies of abuse drugs on immune responses, especially as related to the effects of increased susceptibility to infections, including opportunistic infections related to AIDS. The important topics specifically discussed in this session included discussion of the neurobiology of addiction in regards to cell biology of the central nervous system and altered physiological and behavioral functions. Using experimental rodent models, description of effects of heroin or cocaine, especially self administration of these drugs, on immune cell deficiency and HPA activation, was reviewed as well as effects on important proinflammatory cytokines like TNFalpha. A model system concerning acute morphine withdrawal on ex vivo immune responses by murine cells was described in detail, including effects of such withdrawal on splenocyte or macrophage responses to bacterial LPS. The chronic exposure of rodents to a drug such as cocaine or morphine was described in terms of CNS neurochemical alterations as related to immune responsiveness. The effects of the legal drug nicotine, now known to be the addictive substance of cigarette smoke, was discussed in regards to effects on both the neurologic and immunologic system in rodents in terms of antibody formation and T cell function, related to HBA activation and proinflammatory cytokine responses. It is apparent from this session, that studies concerning the impact of drugs of abuse on the brain-immune-axis and relationship to the immune system constitute a rapidly expanding area and warrant further interest of biomedical scientists.
Deficiency in vitamin A has been associated with adverse clinical outcomes in drug users with HIV-1 infection. Retinoids have been demonstrated to suppress proinflammatory cytokine production by immune cells in vitro. These effects are induced by ligand-mediated activation of the retinoid receptors--retinoic acid receptor (RAR) and retinoid X receptor (RXR). In these studies, the effects of all-trans-retinoid acid (ATRA, a RAR agonist), 9-cis-retinoic acid (9cis RA; RAR and RXR agonist), LG101305 (RXR agonist), LG100815 (RAR antagonist) and LG101208 (RXR antagonist) on TNF-alpha production by phytohemagglutanin-activated U937 cells and the modulation of these effects by morphine were examined. TNF-alpha production was suppressed in all cultures exposed to retinoid agonist and antagonist agents. For cells exposed to RXR agonists or RAR antagonist, incubation with morphine resulted in the reversal of TNF-alpha suppression and this effect was inhibited by naloxone. These data suggest that interactions between RXR and morphine are involved in the immune effects of retinoids on TNF-alpha production by activated U937 cells. Such information may be important for understanding interactions between drugs of abuse and immune function in individuals with chronic proinflammatory states such as HIV-1 infection.
Paraneoplastic neurological syndromes are rare remote effects of different types of cancer. Paraneoplastic limbic encephalitis is a specific syndrome, most often associated with small cell lung carcinoma. This report describes the case of a pure limbic encephalitis in association with breast cancer. An anti-neuronal antibody was found in the serum and CSF of the patient which has not been reported so far.


Extracranial spread of neuroectodermal tumors is an unusual event, most frequently expected from glioblastomas and medulloblastomas. Single cases of metastatic oligodendrogliomas have been described, but no genetic data are reported. Oligodendrogliomas are characterized by distinct genetic alterations, i.e. loss of heterozygosity (LOH) of 1p and 19q; therefore, molecular genetic analysis of metastatic cases is of considerable interest. It may be instrumental in defining the distant tumor as metastatic oligodendroglioma and give clues to the genetic events associated with the highly malignant transformation. We present the case of a patient with multiple bone metastases from a cerebral oligodendroglioma. Oligodendroglioma grade II was the diagnosis both at original and second operation, performed 7 and 1 years before the extracranial dissemination. The extraneural spread presented before the local intracranial recurrence. The patient received procarbazine, lomustine, vincristine chemotherapy and radiotherapy after the second surgery. The computed tomography-guided biopsy of the bone lesions revealed tumor cells positive for GFAP, S-100 and Leu-7 and negative for cytokeratin, LCA and EMA. The genetic analysis of DNA from the original tumor, the bone metastasis and the autoptic brain tumor showed LOH of 1p; heterozygous deletion of CDKN2A/p 16 was detected as additional alteration in the metastasis and in the intracranial tumor at autopsy. TP53, MDM2 and CDKN2A/p14ARF genes were unchanged. Repeated brain surgery and extended survival may have acted as promoter of extraneural dissemination. Loss of CDKN2A most probably played an important role in the malignant progression: its involvement in metastatic potential remains to be clarified. Our data confirm that malignant transformation of oliogodendrogliomas may be undetected by histology and underscore the importance of genetic analysis. Coincidentally with intensive anticancer therapy, chemotherapy included, employed in patients with oligodendroglioma and the ensuing long survival, the frequency of metastatic oliogodendrogliomas may increase.
Cytoskeletal abnormalities with accumulation of ubiquilated inclusions in the anterior horn cells are a pathological hallmark of both familial and sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and of mouse models for ALS. Phosphorylated neurofilaments besides ubiquitin and dorfin have been identified as one of the major components of the abnormal intracellular perikaryal aggregates. As we recently found that p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (p38MAPK) colocalized with phosphorylated neurofilaments in spinal motor neurons of SOD1 mutant mice, a model of familial ALS, we investigated whether this kinase also contributed to the inclusions found in ALS patients and SOD1 mutant mice. Intense immunoreactivity for activated p38MAPK was observed in degenerating motor neurons and reactive astrocytes in ALS cases. The intracellular immunostaining for activated p38MAPK appeared in some neurons as filamentous skein-like and ball-like inclusions, with an immunohistochemical pattern identical to that of ubiquitin. Intracellular p38MAPK-positive aggregates containing ubiquitin and neurofilaments were also found in the spinal motor neurons of SOD1 mutant mice. Our observations indicate that activation of p38MAPK might contribute significantly to the pathology of motor neurons in ALS.
After chronic spinal injury, motoneurons spontaneously develop two persistent inward currents (PICs): a TTX-sensitive persistent sodium current (sodium PIC) and a nimodipine-sensitive persistent calcium current (calcium PIC). In the present paper, we examined how these PICs contributed to motoneuron firing. Adult rats were spinalized at the S(2) sacral level, and after 2 months intracellular recordings were made from sacrocaudal motoneurons in vitro. The PICs and repetitive firing were measured with slow triangular voltage and current ramps, respectively. The sodium PIC was examined after blocking the calcium PIC with nimodipine (20 microM; n = 12). It was always activated subthreshold, and during current ramps in nimodipine, it produced a sodium plateau that assisted in initiating and maintaining firing (self-sustained firing). The sodium PIC oscillated off and on during firing and helped initiate each spike, and near threshold this caused abnormally slow firing (2.82 +/- 1.21 Hz). A low dose of TTX (0.5 microM) blocked the sodium PIC, sodium plateau, and very slow firing prior to affecting the spike itself. The calcium PIC was estimated as the current blocked by nimodipine or current remaining in TTX (2 microM; n = 13). In 59% of motoneurons, the calcium PIC was activated subthreshold to firing and produced a plateau that assisted in initiating and sustaining firing because nimodipine significantly increased the firing threshold current and decreased the self-sustained firing. In the remaining motoneurons (41%), the calcium PIC was activated suprathreshold to firing and during current ramps did not initially affect firing but eventually was activated and caused an acceleration in firing followed by self-sustained firing, which were blocked by nimodipine. The frequency-current (F-I) slope was 3.0 +/- 1.0 Hz/nA before the calcium PIC activation (primary range), 6.3 +/- 3.6 Hz/nA during the calcium PIC onset (secondary range; acceleration), and 2.1 +/- 1.3 Hz/nA with the calcium PIC steadily activated (tertiary range). Nimodipine eliminated the secondary and tertiary ranges, leaving a linear F-I slope of 3.7 +/- 1.0 Hz/nA. A single low-threshold shock to the dorsal root evoked a many-second-long discharge, the counterpart of a muscle spasm in the awake chronic spinal rat. This long-lasting reflex was caused by the motoneuron PICs because when the activation of the voltage-dependent PICs was prevented by hyperpolarization, the same dorsal root stimulation only produced a brief excitatory postsynaptic potential (&lt;1 s). Both the calcium and sodium PIC were involved because nimodipine only partly reduced the reflex and there remained very slow firing mediated by the sodium PIC.
Short-term adaptation and recovery from adaptation have a strong impact on the processing of dynamic stimuli. Adaptive effects on neuronal activity have been studied most commonly for changes in first-order statistics of stimuli such as stepwise increments or decrements in stimulus amplitude. However, changes in higher moment statistics, such as the variance of the amplitude distribution in visual stimuli, also can invoke pronounced adaptation behavior. We demonstrate here that neurons in the inferior colliculus (ICC) of the cat show adaptation to dynamic auditory stimuli that differ in the variance of their modulation depth distribution. In addition, it is shown that neurons show adaptation to other higher moment statistics (e.g., kurtosis) of the modulation envelope. The time course of adaptation is specific for the altered stimulus property and the direction of parameter change. The use of dynamic stimuli allows an estimate of the effects of the adaptation on the temporal response properties of the neurons. We demonstrate that temporal receptive fields of neurons undergo change during the course of adaptation. We show that adaptation to variance in the ICC has many similarities to that in the retina and suggest that adaptation to variance is a general property of sensory systems that allows them to effectively deal with a nonstationary environment.
Mutual inhibition between the GABAergic cells of the thalamic reticular nucleus (RTN) is important in regulating oscillations in the thalamocortical network, promoting those in the spindle range of frequencies over those at lower frequencies. Excitatory inputs to the RTN from the cerebral cortex are numerically large and particularly powerful in inducing spindles. However, the extent to which corticothalamic influences can engage the inhibitory network of the RTN has not been fully explored. Focal electrical stimulation of layer VI in the barrel cortex of the mouse thalamocortical slice in vitro resulted in prominent di- or polysynaptic inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) in RTN cells under the experimental conditions used. The majority of cortically induced responses consisted of mixed PSCs in which the inhibitory component predominated or of large IPSCs alone, implying inhibition of neighboring cells by other, cortically excited RTN cells. Within the mixed PSCs, fixed and variable latency components could commonly be identified. IPSCs could be blocked by application of ionotropic glutamate receptor antagonists or of GABA(A) receptor antagonists, also indicating their dependence on corticothalamic excitation triggering disynaptic or polysynaptic inhibition. Spontaneous GABA(A) receptor-dependent IPSCs were routinely observed in the RTN and, taken together with the results of cortical stimulation, indicate the existence of a substantial network of intrareticular inhibitory connections that can be effectively recruited by the corticothalamic system. These results suggest activation of cortical excitatory inputs triggers the propagation of inhibitory currents within the RTN and support the view that activation of the RTN from the somatosensory cortex, although focused by the topography of the corticothalamic projection, is capable of disynaptically engaging the whole inhibitory network of the RTN, by local and probably by reentrant GABA(A) receptor-based synapses, thus spreading the corticothalamic influence throughout the RTN.
We have investigated the fundamental properties of central auditory glycinergic synapses in early postnatal development in normal and congenitally deaf (dn/dn) mice. Glycinergic miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents (mIPSCs) were recorded using patch-clamp methods in neurons from a brain slice preparation of the medial nucleus of the trapezoid body (MNTB), at 12-14 days postnatal age. Our results show a number of significant differences between normal and deaf mice. The frequency of mIPSCs is greater (50%) in deaf versus normal mice. Mean mIPSC amplitude is smaller in deaf mice than in normal mice (mean mIPSC amplitude: deaf, 64 pA; normal, 106 pA). Peak-scaled fluctuation analysis of mIPSCs showed that mean single channel conductance is greater in the deaf mice (deaf, 64 pS; normal, 45 pS). The mean decay time course of mIPSCs is slower in MNTB neurons from deaf mice (mean half-width: deaf, 2.9 ms; normal, 2.3 ms). Light- and electron-microscopic immunolabeling results showed that MNTB neurons from deaf mice have more (30%) inhibitory synaptic sites (postsynaptic gephyrin clusters) than MNTB neurons in normal mice. Our results demonstrate substantial differences in glycinergic transmission in normal and congenitally deaf mice, supporting a role for activity during development in regulating both synaptic structure (connectivity) and the fundamental (quantal) properties of mIPSCs at central glycinergic synapses.
The origin of variability in goal-directed movements is not well understood. Variability can originate from several neural processes such as target localization, movement planning, and movement execution. Here we examine variability resulting from noise in movement execution. In several experiments, subjects moved their unseen hand to visual targets, under conditions which were designed to minimize the variability expected from localization and planning processes. We tested short movements in 32 directions in a center-out reaching task. The variability in the movement endpoints and in the initial movement direction varied systematically with the movement direction, with some directions having up to twice the variability of others. In a second experiment we tested four movements in the same direction but with different extents. Here, the longer movements were systematically curved, and the endpoint ellipses were not aligned with the straight line between starting and end position, but they were roughly aligned with the last part of the trajectory. We show that the variability observed in these experiments cannot be explained by planning noise but is well explained by noise in movement execution. A combination of both signal-dependent and signal-independent noise in the amplitude of the motor commands and temporal noise in their duration can explain the observed variability. Our results suggest that, in general, execution noise accounts for at least a large proportion of movement variability.
The generation of primate smooth pursuit eye movements involves two processes. One process transforms the direction and speed of target motion into a motor command and the other regulates the strength, or &quot;gain,&quot; of the visual-motor transformation. We have conducted a behavioral analysis to identify the signals that modulate the internal gain of pursuit. To test whether the modulatory signals are related to eye velocity in the orbit or in the world (gaze velocity), we used brief perturbations of target motion to probe the gain of pursuit during tracking conditions that used head rotation to dissociate eye and gaze velocity. We found that the responses to perturbations varied primarily as a function of gaze velocity. To further understand the gaze velocity signals that control internal pursuit gain, we used adaptive modification of the gain of the vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR) to dissociate physical gaze velocity from the component of gaze velocity that is driven by visual inputs. After VOR adaptation, perturbation responses were altered; the smallest perturbation responses now occurred during tracking conditions that required nonzero physical gaze velocity. However, perturbation responses during tracking conditions that mimicked the modified VOR were still enhanced relative to those obtained during fixation. We conclude that the signals that modulate the internal gain of pursuit are modified by VOR adaptation so that they are rendered intermediate between physical and visually driven gaze velocity. Similar changes in the gaze velocity signal have been reported in the cerebellar floccular complex following adaptive modification of the VOR and could be present in other brain areas that carry putative gaze velocity signals.
Segmentation of the velocity profiles into the submovements has been observed in reaching and tracking limb movements and even in isometric tasks. Submovements have been implicated in both feed-forward and feedback control. In this study, submovements were analyzed during manual tracking in the nonhuman primate with the focus on the amplitude-duration scaling of submovements and the error signals involved in their control. The task consisted of the interception and visually guided pursuit of a target moving in a circle. The submovements were quantified based on their duration and amplitude in the speed profile. Control experiments using passive movements demonstrated that these intermittencies were not instrumentation artifacts. Submovements were prominent in both the interception and tracking phases and their amplitude scaled linearly with duration. The scaling factors increased with tracking speed at the same rate for both interception and pursuit. A cross-correlation analysis between a variety of error signals and the speed profile revealed that direction and speed errors were temporally coupled to the submovements. The cross-correlation profiles suggest that submovements are initiated when speed error reaches a certain limit and when direction error is minimized. The scaling results show that in monkeys submovements characterize both the interception and pursuit portions of the task and that these submovements have similar scaling properties consistent with 1) the concept of stereotypy and 2) adding constant acceleration/force at a specific tracking speed. The correlation results show involvement of speed and direction error signals in controlling the submovements.
The current study was conducted to extend our understanding of changes in spatial organization and response properties of cortical neurons in the developing mammalian forebrain. Extracellular multiunit responses to tones were recorded from a dense array of penetrations covering entire isofrequency contours in the primary auditory cortex (AI) of pentobarbital anesthetized kittens. Ages ranged from postnatal day 14 (P14), shortly after acquisition of normal auditory response thresholds, through postnatal day 111 (P111), when the kittens were largely mature. Spatial organization of the AI was tonotopically ordered by P14. The tonotopic gradient decreased with chronological maturation. At P14 the gradient was about 3.5 kHz/mm. By P111 it had declined to about 2.5 kHz/mm, so that the cortical region encompassing a fixed 3- to 15-kHz frequency range enlarged along its posterior-anterior dimension. Response properties of developing AI neurons changed in both frequency selectivity and intensity selectivity. The mean frequency tuning bandwidth increased with age. Initially, tuning bandwidths were narrow throughout the entire AI. With progressive maturation, broader bandwidths were observed in areas dorsal and ventral to a central region in which neurons remained narrowly tuned. The resulting spatial organization of tuning bandwidth was similar to that reported in adult cats. The majority of recording sites manifested nonmonotonic rate/level functions at all ages. However, the proportion of sites with monotonic rate/level functions increased with age. No spatial organization of rate/level functions (monotonic and nonmonotonic) was observed through P111. The relatively late development of bandwidth tuning in the AI compared with the early presence of tonotopic organization suggests that different developmental processes are responsible for structuring these two dimensions of acoustic selectivity.
Previous work found evidence that alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid (AMPA)-type glutamate receptors interact with and are functionally regulated by the glycosaminoglycan heparin. The present study tested whether dextran species affect ligand binding, channel kinetics, and calcium permeability of AMPA receptors. Dextran sulfate of 500 kDa markedly reduced high affinity [3H]AMPA binding in solubilized hippocampal membranes. In isolated receptors reconstituted in a lipid bilayer, the same dextran sulfate prolonged the lifetime of open states exhibited by AMPA-induced channel fluctuations. The large polysaccharide further changed the single channel kinetics by increasing the open channel probability five- to sixfold. Such modulation of channel activity corresponded with enhanced levels of calcium influx as shown in hippocampal neurons loaded with Fluo3AM dye. With an exposure time of &lt;1 min, AMPA produced a dose-dependent increase in intracellular calcium that was blocked by 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione disodium (CNQX). Dextran sulfate, at the same concentration range that modified ligand binding (EC50 of 5-10 nM), enhanced the AMPA-induced calcium influx by as much as 60%. The enhanced influx was blocked by CNQX, although unchanged by the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist AP5. Confocal microscopy showed that the increase in calcium occurred in neuronal cell bodies and their processes. Interestingly, smaller 5-8-kDa dextran sulfate and a non-sulfated dextran of 500 kDa had little or no effect on the binding, channel, and calcium permeability properties. Together, these findings suggest that synaptic polysaccharide species modulate hippocampal AMPA receptors in a sulfate- and size-dependent manner.
We reported previously that unilateral cochlear ablation (UCA) in young adult guinea pigs induced protein kinase C (PKC)-dependent plastic changes in the electrically evoked release of exogenous [14C]glycine ([14C]Gly) or [14C]-gamma-aminobutyric acid ([14C]GABA) in several brain stem auditory nuclei. The present study assessed whether such changes depended on protein kinase A (PKA) and calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII). In the major subdivisions of the cochlear nucleus (CN) and the main nuclei of the superior olivary complex (SOC) dissected from intact animals, dibutyryl-cyclic adenosine monophosphate (DBcAMP) (0.2 mM), a PKA activator, elevated release by 1.6-2.3-fold. The PKA inhibitor, H-89 (2 microM), did not alter the release but blocked the stimulatory effects of DBcAMP. These findings suggested that PKA could positively regulate glycinergic and GABAergic release. After UCA, PKA regulation declined and failed in the ventral CN but persisted in the SOC nuclei. After 145 postablation days, H-89 reversed elevations of [14C]GABA release in the medial nucleus of the trapezoid body (MNTB). A CaMKII inhibitor, KN-93, reversed depressions of [14C]Gly release in the DCN. Thus, the postablation plasticities in these nuclei probably depended on PKA or CaMKII. Both H-89 and KN-93 depressed [14C]Gly release in the lateral superior olive (LSO) and ipsilateral medial superior olive (MSO), suggesting that either kinase was used by endogenous mechanisms in these nuclei to upregulate glycinergic release. In contrast, KN-93 elevated [14C]GABA release in the contralateral MNTB, suggesting a downregulatory action of CaMKII, an action opposite to that of PKA.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized in part by the deposition of amyloid beta protein (Abeta) in compact fibrillar plaques. These structures can induce an innate immune response in the brain, which triggers progressive inflammation, neuronal loss, and further acceleration of Abeta plaque formation. Compared with the case in normal individuals, the T and B lymphocytes in AD patients and murine models are hyporesponsive to Abeta. However, depending on the route of delivery, tolerance can be overcome by vaccination, with the induction of an anti-Abeta-mediated immune response. Through mechanisms that are incompletely understood, immunized APP transgenic animals show markedly reduced Abeta deposition, preservation of normal neuronal architecture, and improved performance in memory and spatial learning tasks. In human trials, Abeta vaccination stabilized cognition and slowed the progression of dementia. Neuropathologic examination of a vaccinated subject showed reduced cortical Abeta without changes in other AD-associated pathology. However, in some patients, vaccination induced severe meningoencephalitis, causing the trial to be terminated. Thus, vaccination appears to activate both beneficial and deleterious anti-Abeta immunity, suggesting that the vaccine can have potent clinical utility if an appropriate immunologic response can be generated.

We have previously found that in vitro traumatic injury uncouples IP3-mediated intracellular free calcium ([Ca2+]i) signaling in astrocytes (Rzigalinski et al., 1998; Floyd et al., 2001). Since Group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) are coupled to IP3-mediated Ca2+ signaling, we investigated their role in the in vitro strain injury of cultured astrocytes. Astrocytes grown on Silastic membranes were labeled with 3H-myo-inositol and strain (stretch)-injured. Cells injured in the presence of LiCl to prevent inositol phosphate metabolism were acid extracted and inositol phosphates (IPx) isolated using anion exchange columns. Reactive gliosis was assessed as increased glial fibrillary acidic protein immunoreactivity (GFAP-IR). Pre- but not post-injury administration of (RS)-1-aminoindan-15-decarboxylic acid (AIDA) or (S)-4-carboxy-3-hydroxyphenylglycine (S4CH3HPG), both group I mGluR antagonists, attenuated injury-induced increases in IPx. Injury increased GFAP-IR in astrocytes at 24 and 48 h post injury, which was reduced or blocked by AIDA or inhibition of phospholipase C (PLC) with U73122. These findings suggest that strain injury activates Group I mGluRs, causing aberrant IPx production and uncoupling of the PLC signaling pathway. Changes in this signaling pathway may be related to induction of reactive gliosis. Additionally, our results suggest a complex physical coupling between G protein receptor, PLC, and IP3 receptor, in support of the conformational coupling model.
Embryonic stem (ES) cells have been investigated in various animal models of neurodegenerative disease; however, few studies have examined the ability of ES cells to improve functional outcome following traumatic brain injury (TBI). The purpose of the present study was to examine the ability of pre-differentiated murine ES cells (neuronal and glial precursors) to improve functional outcome. Rats were prepared with a unilateral controlled cortical impact injury or sham and then transplanted 7 days later with 100K ES cells (WW6G) (~30% neurons) or media. Two days following transplantation rats were tested on a battery of behavioral tests. It was found that transplantation of ES cells improved behavioral outcome by reducing the initial magnitude of the deficit on the bilateral tactile removal and locomotor placing tests. ES cells also induced almost complete recovery on the vibrissae --&gt; forelimb placing test, whereas, media-transplanted rats failed to show recovery. Acquisition of a reference memory task in the Morris water maze was not improved by transplantation of ES cells. Histological analysis revealed a large number of surviving ES cells in the lesion cavity and showed migration of ES cells into subcortical structures. It was found that transplantation of ES cells prevented the occurrence of multiple small necrotic cavities that were seen in the cortex adjacent to the lesion cavity in media transplanted rats. Additionally, ES cells transplants also significantly reduced lesion size. Results of this study suggest that ES cells that have been pre-differentiated into neuronal precursors prior to transplantation have therapeutic potential.
Previous infection, both of bacterial and viral origin, is reported to represent an independent risk factor for ischemic stroke in children and young adults. The authors describe the case of an immunocompetent young woman who developed a middle cerebral artery thrombosis and stroke in course of a recurrence of human parvovirus B19 (PVB19) infection. A previously healthy 25-year-old woman developed right ataxic hemiparesis, 5 days after the onset of a flulike syndrome. Magnetic resonance imaging of the brain revealed acute multiple left frontal-parietal ischemic lesions. Conventional and magnetic resonance angiograms revealed a stenosis in the left middle cerebral artery. Nested polymerase chain reaction detected PVB19-specific DNA sequences in the cerebrospinal fluid and blood, and serology showed high titers of high avidity immunoglobulin G against PVB19. After 10 days, the patient's recovery was nearly complete. One month later, PVB19 disappeared from the serum, whereas it persisted in the peripheral blood mononuclear cells. This case report suggests that PVB19 infection may play a trigger role in the development of ischemic stroke, and that it should be considered in the screening of infectious risk factors for cerebrovascular diseases in young adults.


The tissue distribution, course of secretion, and sex differences of morphine were delineated in Ascaris suum. Nitric oxide (NO) release in various tissues in response to morphine and its metabolite morphine-6-glucuronide (M6G) were also examined. Ascaris suum of both sexes along with their incubation fluid were analyzed for morphine concentrations by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) over a 5-day period. Various tissues were also dissected for HPLC and NO analysis. Morphine was found to be most prevalent in the muscle tissue, and there is significantly more morphine in females than males, probably because of the large amounts present in the female uterus. Morphine (10(-9) M) and M6G (10(-9) M) stimulated the release of NO from muscles. Naloxone (10(-7) M) and N-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (10(-6) M) blocked (P &lt; 0.005) morphine-stimulated NO release from A. suum muscle tissue. D-Phe-Cys-Tyr-D-Trp-Om-Thr-Pen-Thr-NH2 (CTOP) (10(-7) M) did not block morphine's NO release. However, naloxone could not block M6G-stimulated NO release by muscles, whereas CTOP (10(-7) M) blocked its release. These findings were in seeming contradiction to our earlier inability to isolate a mu opiate receptor messenger RNA by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction using a human mu primer. This suggests that a novel mu opiate receptor was possibly present and selective toward M6G.
The present studies were conducted to test the hypothesis that activation of peripheral cannabinoid CB(2) receptors would suppress hyperalgesia evoked by intradermal administration of capsaicin, the pungent ingredient in hot chili peppers. The CB(2)-selective cannabinoid agonist (2-iodo-5-nitro-phenyl)-[1-(1-methyl-piperidin-2-ylmethyl)-1H-indol-3-yl]-methanone (AM1241) (33, 330 microg/kg i.p.) suppressed the development of capsaicin-evoked thermal and mechanical hyperalgesia and allodynia. AM1241 also produced a dose-dependent suppression of capsaicin-evoked nocifensive behavior. The AM1241-induced suppression of each parameter of capsaicin-evoked pain behavior was completely blocked by the CB(2) antagonist N-[(1S)-endo-1,3,3-trimethyl bicycle [2.2.1] heptan-2-yl]-5-(4-chloro-3-methylphenyl)-1-(4-methylbenzyl)-pyrazole-3-carboxamide (SR144528) but not by the CB(1) antagonist N-(piperidin-1-yl)-5-(4-chlorophenyl)-1-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)-4-methyl-1H-pyrazole-3-carboxamidehydrochloride (SR141716A). AM1241 (33 microg/kg i.pl.) suppressed capsaicin-evoked thermal and mechanical hyperalgesia and allodynia after local administration to the capsaicin-treated (ipsilateral) paw but was inactive after administration to the capsaicin-untreated (contralateral) paw. Our data indicate that AM1241 suppresses capsaicin-evoked hyperalgesia and allodynia through a local site of action. These data provide evidence that actions at cannabinoid CB(2) receptors are sufficient to normalize nociceptive thresholds and produce antinociception in persistent pain states.
Suramin is a well known antitrypanosomal drug and a novel experimental agent for the treatment of several cancers, yet the molecular mechanisms through which suramin exerts its effects on cell functions are not completely clear. In this study, we investigated the potential of suramin to activate the mitogen-activated protein kinase cascade in cultured Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells. The treatment of CHO cells with suramin increased the enzyme activity of extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERK1/2) approximately 10-fold dose and time dependently. The EC(50) value was approximately 2.4 microM. This activation is inhibited by PD98059 and wortmannin/LY294002, indicating a crucial role for mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (MEK) and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K), respectively. Suramin-mediated stimulation of PI3K was confirmed by the observation that suramin stimulates the phosphorylation of protein kinase B (Akt) in a wortmannin-sensitive manner. Furthermore, cAMP response element-binding protein, a transcription factor, was also activated by suramin in a MEK-dependent manner. The suramin-induced phosphorylation of cGMP-dependent protein kinase was also suggested by a solid-phase kinase assay. The suramin effects on CHO cells were shown to have a concomitant increase in DNA synthesis, which was attenuated by PD98059. Similar activation of ERK1/2 activity by suramin was observed in other cell lines such as Chinese hamster lung or PC12 cells, but not in RBL2H3, ECV304, and OVK18 cells, indicating a cell-type specific mechanism for suramin. These results indicate that suramin induces mitogenic activity in several cell lines through the pathway from PI3K to MEK and ERK.
The studies aiming to understand the function of purinoceptors in the central nervous system (CNS), which has been explored mostly in isolated and cultured cell systems, are now at the stage of identifying their physiological and pathophysiological significance in the native organs, tissues, and whole animals. The results of our recent studies made in brain slice preparations are not in full accordance with what have been demonstrated in isolated cells, mostly due to strong interplay between ATP receptors, adenosine receptors, and ecto-nucleotidases. This suggests that these proteins form coordinated regulation systems in the native tissue, controlling the local network behaviors through regulating the balance between the effects of ATP and adenosine on synaptic transmissions. We propose that this tripartite regulation system by extracellular purines may be an important target of CNS drugs.
Adenosine A(1) receptors (A(1)R) are able to form a heteromeric complex with P2Y(1) receptors (P2Y(1)R) that generates A(1)R with P2Y(1)R-like agonistic pharmacology. A potent P2Y(1)R agonist, adenosine 5'-O-(2-thiotriphosphate), binds the A(1)R binding pocket of the A(1)R/P2Y(1)R complex and inhibits adenylyl cyclase activity via G(i/o) protein. These mechanisms might be used to fine-tune purinergic inhibition locally at sites where there is a particular oligomerization structure between purinergic receptors and explain the undefined purinergic functions by adenosine and adenine nucleotides.

We examined the evidence for non-surgical interventions and for economic costs for mild traumatic brain injury patients by a systematic search of the literature and a best-evidence synthesis. After screening 38,806 abstracts, we critically reviewed 45 articles on intervention and accepted 16 (36%). We reviewed 16 articles on economic costs and accepted 7 (44%). We found some evidence that early educational information can reduce long-term complaints and that this early intervention need not be intensive. Most cost studies were performed more than a decade ago. Indirect costs are probably higher than direct costs. Studies comparing costs for routine hospitalized observation vs the use of computerized tomography scan examination for selective hospital admission indicate that the latter policy reduces costs, but comparable clinical outcome of these policies has not been demonstrated. The sparse scientific literature in these areas reflects both conceptual confusion and limited knowledge of the natural history of mild traumatic brain injury.
We examined diagnostic procedures in mild traumatic brain injury by a systematic literature search. After screening 38,806 abstracts, we critically reviewed 228 diagnostic studies and accepted 73 (32%). The estimated prevalence of intracranial CT scan abnormalities is 5% in patients presenting to hospital with a Glasgow Coma Scale score of 15 and 30% or higher in patients presenting with a score of 13. About 1% of all treated patients with mild traumatic brain injury require neurosurgical intervention. There is strong evidence that clinical factors can predict computerized tomography scan abnormalities and the need for intervention in adults, but no such evidence for mild traumatic brain injury in children. We found evidence that skull fracture is a risk factor for intracranial lesions, but the diagnostic accuracy of radiologically diagnosed skull fracture as an indication of intracranial lesions is poor. There is only a little evidence for the diagnostic validity of cognitive testing and other diagnostic tools for mild traumatic brain injury.
Lyme borreliosis is a multisystemic disease caused by infection with various genospecies of the spirochete Borrelia burgdorferi. The organs most often affected are the skin, joints, the heart, and the central and peripheral nervous systems. Multiple neurological complications can occur, including aseptic meningitis, encephalopathy, facial nerve palsy, radiculitis, myelitis, and peripheral neuropathy. To investigate spinal cord involvement in the nonhuman primate (NHP) model of Lyme borreliosis, we inoculated 25 adult Macaca mulatta with B. burgdorferi sensu strictu strains N40 by needle (N=9) or by tick (N=4) or 297 by needle (N=2), or with B. burgdorferi genospecies garinii strains Pbi (N=4), 793 (N=2), or Pli (N=4) by needle. Immunosuppression either transiently (TISP) or permanently (IS) was used to facilitate establishment of infection. Tissues and fluids were collected at necropsy 7-24 weeks later. Hematoxylin and eosin staining was used to study inflammation, and immunohistochemistry and digital image analysis to measure inflammation and localize spirochetes. The spirochetal load and C1q expression were measured by TaqMan RT-PCR. The results showed meningoradiculitis developed in only one of the 25 NHP's examined, TISP NHP 321 inoculated with B. garinii strain Pbi. Inflammation was localized to nerve roots, dorsal root ganglia, and leptomeninges but rarely to the spinal cord parenchyma itself. T cells and plasma cells were the predominant inflammatory cells. Significantly increased amounts of IgG, IgM, and C1q were found in inflamed spinal cord. Taqman RT-PCR found spirochetes in the spinal cord only in IS-NHP's, mostly in nerve roots and ganglia rather than in the cord parenchyma. C1q mRNA expression was significantly increased in inflamed spinal cord. This is the first comprehensive study of spinal cord involvement in Lyme borreliosis.


Recent preliminary data suggest that vaccination with Alzheimer's Abeta might reduce senile plaque load and stabilize cognitive decline in human Alzheimer's disease. To examine the mechanisms and consequences of anti-Abeta-antibody formation in a species more closely related to humans, rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta) were vaccinated with aggregated Abeta(1-42). Immunized monkeys developed anti-Abeta titers exceeding 1:1000, and their plasma Abeta levels were 5-10-fold higher than the plasma Abeta levels observed in monkeys vaccinated with aggregated amylin. These data support the use of non-human primates to model certain phenomena associated with vaccination of humans with aggregated Alzheimer's Abeta.

The nm23 gene is a putative tumour and metastasis suppressor gene. A number of studies have found that reduction of its expression is associated with increased metastatic potential in several human malignancies. Similarly, clinical studies have shown correlation between reduced nm23 protein expression and a poor prognosis. The aim of this study was to determine if a relationship exists between nm23 expression in primary cutaneous melanomas with or without cerebral metastases. Paraffin-embedded tissues were retrieved from 21 patients with primary cutaneous melanomas (n=21) and who subsequently developed cerebral metastases (n=24). Primary cutaneous melanomas with no regional or organ metastases within a 10 year period were used as control cases (n=34). Nm23 staining was localized in the cytoplasm of the tumour cells. Most of the control cases showed strong expression, whereas the majority of the primary melanomas with cerebral metastases showed no or weak expression of nm23. The cerebral metastases mostly showed strong expression. In summary, the results of this study may have significant prognostic implications for patients presenting with cutaneous melanoma. Patients with cutaneous melanomas with a low expression of nm23 appear to be more at risk of developing brain metastases.
Transplanted patients are susceptible to viral infections; thus, the aim of this study was to evaluate the features of acute rejections and the outcome of the renal graft in transplanted patients with herpes virus diseases. Renal biopsies from 30 renal transplanted patients undergoing early acute rejection (type IA and IB according to the Banff 97 classification) were evaluated. In total, 15 of these patients experienced cytomegalovirus (CMV) or Epstein-Barr virus disease within the first year following transplantation (group I) and 15 patients showed no evidence of viral infection (group II). No significant differences between the groups in terms of age, male/female ratio, living/cadaveric donor ratio, cold ischemia time, HLA A-B matching, pretransplant panel reactive antibody test, occurrence of post-transplant tubular necrosis, plasma levels of cyclosporin A and mean percent increase of serum creatinine at the time of the biopsy were observed. In group I biopsies, the mean number of interstitial plasma cells, as well as the mean number of CD79a-positive cells (B lymphocytes and plasma cells) was significantly higher than in group II (P&lt;0.01 and &lt;0.01, respectively). There was a positive correlation between the number of infections and the number of plasma cells (P&lt;0.05). In transplanted patients, CMV can trigger the formation of anti-endothelial cell antibodies, which have been proposed to play a role in antibody-mediated rejections. We investigated whether a deposition of C4d, a marker of antibody-mediated reactions, was present in renal peritubular capillaries. In group I C4d deposition was found in five cases, while in group II it was not observed (P&lt;0.05). In group I, 7/15 patients developed chronic allograft nephropathy vs 1/15 patients in group II (P&lt;0.05). The estimated 1-, 5- and 8-year cumulative graft survival rates were 80, 66 and 57%, respectively, in group I, while in group II the estimated 8-year cumulative survival rate was 100% (P&lt;0.05). In conclusion, acute rejection biopsies of patients with viral infections displayed plasma cell infiltrates and, in several cases, C4d deposition. Our study suggests a role of B lymphocytes in the pathology of these rejections and confirms the association between viral infections and poor graft survival.
Nitric oxide (NO(*)) is a diffusible regulatory molecule involved in a wide range of physiological and pathological events. At the tissue level, a local and temporary increase in NO(*) concentration is translated into a cellular signal. From our current knowledge of biological synthesis and decay, the kinetics and mechanisms that determine NO(*) concentration dynamics in tissues are poorly understood. Generally, NO(*) mediates its effects by stimulating (e.g., guanylate cyclase) or inhibiting (e.g., cytochrome oxidase) transition metal-containing proteins and by post-translational modification of proteins (e.g., formation of nitrosothiol adducts). The borderline between the physiological and pathological activities of NO(*) is a matter of controversy, but tissue redox environment, supramolecular organization and compartmentalisation of NO(*) targets are important features in determining NO(*) actions. In brain, NO(*) synthesis in the dependency of glutamate NMDA receptor is a paradigmatic example; the NMDA-subtype glutamate receptor triggers intracellular signalling pathways that govern neuronal plasticity, development, senescence and disease, suggesting a role for NO(*) in these processes. Measurements of NO(*) in the different subregions of hippocampus, in a glutamate NMDA receptor-dependent fashion, by means of electrochemical selective microsensors illustrate the concentration dynamics of NO(*) in the sub-regions of this brain area. The analysis of NO(*) concentration-time profiles in the hippocampus requires consideration of at least two interrelated issues, also addressed in this review. NO(*) diffusion in a biological medium and regulation of NO(*) activity.
Bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) 4 and 6 as well as MEK inhibitors PD98059 and U0126 potentiate neurotrophin 3 (NT3)- and neurturin (NTN)-induced neurite outgrowth and survival of peripheral neurons from the E9 chicken embryo. Preexposure to BMP4 or PD98059 was sufficient to prime the potentiation of subsequently added NT3. Phosphorylation of Erk2, induced by NT3, was reduced by MEK inhibition but unaffected by BMP signaling. Real-time PCR showed that neither BMP stimulation nor MEK inhibition increased Trk receptor expression and that the BMP-induced genes Smad6 and Id1 were not upregulated by PD98059. In contrast, both MEK inhibition and BMP signaling suppressed transcription of the serum-response element (SRE)-driven Egr1 gene. A reporter assay using NGF-stimulated PC12 cells demonstrated that MEK/Erk/Elk-driven transcriptional activity was inhibited by Smad1/5 and by PD98059. Thus, suppression of SRE-controlled transcription represents a likely convergence point for pathways regulating neurotrophic responses.
gamma-Aminobutyric acid (GABA) can act as a neuroprotective agent besides its well-established role as the main inhibitory neurotransmitter in the CNS. Here we report that microglial cells express GABA(B) receptors indicating that these prominent immunocompetent cells in the brain are a target for GABA. Agonists of GABA(B) receptors triggered the induction of K(+) conductance in microglial cells from acute brain slices and in culture. Both subunits of GABA(B) receptors were identified in cultured microglia by Western blot analysis and immunocytochemistry, and were detected on a subpopulation of microglia in situ by immunohistochemistry. In response to facial nerve axotomy, we observed an increase in GABA(B) receptor expressing microglial cells in the facial nucleus. We activated microglial cells in culture with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) to induce the release of interleukin-6 and interleukin-12p40. This release activity was attenuated by simultaneous activation of the GABA(B) receptors indicating that GABA can modulate the microglial immune response.
Presynaptic choline uptake is vital to sustained neuronal acetylcholine (ACh) release; however, only with the recent cloning of choline transporters (CHTs) (i.e., SLC5A7), has a picture emerged of the regulatory pathways supporting CHT modulation. Studies arising from the development of CHT-specific antibodies reveal a large, intracellular reserve of CHT proteins, localized to ACh-containing, synaptic vesicles. The intersection of mechanisms supporting vesicular ACh release and choline uptake demonstrates an elegant mechanism for linking regulation of CHT membrane density to rates of ACh release. Furthermore, these studies point to control of the CHT endocytic process as an important target for novel therapeutics that could offset functional deficits in disorders bearing diminished cholinergic tone, including myasthenias and dementias.
Understanding precisely the functioning of voltage-gated Ca2+ channels and their modulation by signaling molecules will help clarifying the Ca(2+)-dependent mechanisms controlling exocytosis in chromaffin cells. In recent years, we have learned more about the various pathways through which Ca2+ channels can be up- or down-modulated by hormones and neurotransmitters and how these changes may condition chromaffin cell activity and catecolamine release. Recently, the attention has been focused on the modulation of L-channels (CaV 1), which represent the major Ca2+ current component in rat and human chromaffin cells. L-channels are effectively inhibited by the released content of secretory granules or by applying mixtures of exogenous ATP, opioids, and adrenaline through the activation of receptor-coupled G proteins. This unusual inhibition persists in a wide range of potentials and results from a direct (membrane-delimited) interaction of G protein subunits with the L-channels co-localized in membrane microareas. Inhibition of L-channels can be reversed when the cAMP/PKA pathway is activated by membrane permeable cAMP analog or when cells are exposed to isoprenaline (remote action), suggesting the existence of parallel and opposite effects on L-channel gating by distinctly activated membrane autoreceptors. Here, the authors review the molecular components underlying these two opposing signaling pathways and present new evidence supporting the presence of two L-channel types in rat chromaffin cells (alpha1C and alpha1D), which open new interesting issues concerning Ca(2+)-channel modulation. In light of recent findings on the regulation of exocytosis by Ca(2+)-channel modulation, the authors explore the possible role of L-channels in the autocontrol of catecholamine release.
Activation of the arterial baroreceptors induces expression of the proto-oncogene c-fos in the nucleus tractus solitarii (NTS), the terminal site of baroreceptor afferents in the medulla oblongata. This induced expression is an intracellular event that is crucial to long-term maintenance of stable blood pressure. Using Sprague-Dawley rats maintained under propofol anesthesia, we evaluated the role and delineated the underlying molecular mechanisms of nitric oxide (NO) in this process. Baroreceptor activation induced by 30 min of sustained hypertension significantly and sequentially increased the level of cyclic GMP-dependent protein kinase I (PKG-I), phosphorylated cyclic AMP response element-binding protein (pCREB), c-fos mRNA, and Fos protein in the NTS. All of these up-regulated expressions were significantly attenuated in animals that were pretreated immediately before baroreceptor activation with bilateral microinjection into the NTS of a selective neuronal nitric-oxide synthase (nNOS) inhibitor, 7-nitroindazole (2.5 pmol), or a soluble guanylyl cyclase (sGC) inhibitor, 1-H-[1,2,4]oxadiaolo[4,3-a]quinoxalin-1-one (1 nmol). Bilateral NTS microinjection of a cell-permeable cGMP analog, 8-bromoguanosine-3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (10 nmol) significantly elevated the level of pCREB or c-fos mRNA in the NTS. On the other hand, the up-regulated CREB phosphorylation or c-fos induction evoked in the dorsomedial medulla by baroreceptor activation was significantly antagonized by NTS application of a cell-permeable cGMP antagonist, (R)p-8-bromoguanosine-3',5'-cyclic monophosphorothioate (5 nmol), or a PKG inhibitor, (8R,9S,11S)-(-)-9-methoxy-carbamyl-8-methyl-2,3,9,10-tetrahydro-8,11-epoxy-1H,8H,11H,-2,7b,11a-trizadizo-benzo(a,g)cycloocta(c,d,e)-trinden-1-one (1 nmol). We conclude that NO derived from nNOS in the NTS on baroreceptor activation may participate in c-fos expression via phosphorylation of CREB in a process that engages the sGC/cGMP/PKG-I signaling cascade.

We assessed the inter-rater reliability of the 100-point International Cooperative Ataxia Rating Scale (ICARS). Three neurologists independently rated videotaped ICARS examinations of 22 subjects with genetically determined ataxias (spinocerebellar ataxia [SCA] Type 1 in 11; SCA Type 2 in 1; Friedreich's ataxia in 10) and 4 controls. Scores on live ICARS assessment had ranged from 0 to 7 for controls and 11 to 74 for ataxic subjects (clinically very mildly affected to wheelchair-bound). Inter-rater correlation was very high for the total score (Kendall's omega 0.994, 95% confidence interval, 0.988-0.997), and high to very high for each component subscore (0.791 for speech to 0.994 for posture/gait). All correlations were significant at P &lt; 0.00001. The ICARS exhibits very high inter-rater reliability even without prior observer standardisation and is sensitive to a range of ataxia severities from very mild to severe.
Cell adhesion to extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins is crucial for the structural integrity of tissues and epithelial-mesenchymal interactions mediating organ morphogenesis. Here we describe how the loss of a cytoplasmic multi-PDZ scaffolding protein, glutamate receptor interacting protein 1 (GRIP1), leads to the formation of subepidermal hemorrhagic blisters, renal agenesis, syndactyly or polydactyly and permanent fusion of eyelids (cryptophthalmos). Similar malformations are characteristic of individuals with Fraser syndrome and animal models of this human genetic disorder, such as mice carrying the blebbed mutation (bl) in the gene encoding the Fras1 ECM protein. GRIP1 can physically interact with Fras1 and is required for the localization of Fras1 to the basal side of cells. In one animal model of Fraser syndrome, the eye-blebs (eb) mouse, Grip1 is disrupted by a deletion of two coding exons. Our data indicate that GRIP1 is required for normal cell-matrix interactions during early embryonic development and that inactivation of Grip1 causes Fraser syndrome-like defects in mice.
We developed a method for systematically comparing gene expression patterns across organisms using genome-wide comparative analysis of DNA microarray experiments. We identified analogous gene expression programs comprising shared patterns of regulation across orthologous genes. Biological features of these patterns could be identified as highly conserved subpatterns that correspond to Gene Ontology categories. Here, we demonstrate these methods by analyzing a specific biological process, aging, and show that similar analysis can be applied to a range of biological processes. We found that two highly diverged animals, the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans and the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster, implement a shared adult-onset expression program of genes involved in mitochondrial metabolism, DNA repair, catabolism, peptidolysis and cellular transport. Most of these changes were implemented early in adulthood. Using this approach to search databases of gene expression data, we found conserved transcriptional signatures in larval development, embryogenesis, gametogenesis and mRNA degradation.

Studies have shown that humans cannot simultaneously learn opposing force fields or opposing visuomotor rotations, even when provided with arbitrary contextual information, probably because of interference in their working memory. In contrast, we found that subjects can adapt to two opposing force fields when provided with contextual cues and can consolidate motor memories if random and frequent switching occurs. Because significant aftereffects were seen, this study suggests that multiple internal models can be acquired simultaneously during learning and predictively switched, depending only on contextual information.
The rewarding effect of drugs of abuse is mediated by activation of the mesolimbic dopamine system, which is inhibited by putative anti-craving compounds. Interestingly, different GABA(B) receptor agonists can exert similarly opposing effects on the reward pathway, but the cellular mechanisms involved are unknown. Here we found that the coupling efficacy (EC(50)) of G-protein-gated inwardly rectifying potassium (GIRK, Kir3) channels to GABA(B) receptor was much lower in dopamine neurons than in GABA neurons of the ventral tegmental area (VTA), depending on the differential expression of GIRK subunits. Consequently, in rodent VTA slices, a low concentration of the canonical agonist baclofen caused increased activity, whereas higher doses eventually inhibited dopamine neurons. At behaviorally relevant dosages, baclofen activated GIRK channels in both cell types, but the drug of abuse gamma-hydroxy-butyric acid (GHB) activated GIRK channels only in GABAergic neurons. Thus GABA(B) receptor agonists exert parallel cellular and behavioral effects due to the cell-specific expression of GIRK subunits.
Visual position discrimination improves with practice; however, the mechanism(s) underlying this improvement are not yet known. We used positional noise to explore the underlying neural mechanisms and found that position discrimination improved with practice over a range of noise levels. This improvement can be largely explained by an increasing efficiency with which observers used positional information in the stimulus. In a second experiment, we tested the hypothesis that the improved efficiency reflects a re-tuning of the observers' perceptual 'template'--the weightings of inputs from basic visual mechanisms--to more closely match the ideal template required to perform the perceptual task. Using a new technique to measure which parts of the stimulus influenced the observer's performance, we were able to record the re-tuning of the decision template across training sessions; we found a robust and steady increase in template efficiency during learning.
Dendrite branching has an important role in normal brain function. Here we report that overexpression of cypin, a protein that has guanine deaminase activity and is expressed in developing processes in rat hippocampal neurons, results in increased dendrite branching in primary culture. Mutant cypin proteins that lack guanine deaminase activity act in a dominant-negative manner when expressed in primary neurons. Furthermore, we knocked down cypin protein levels using a new strategy: expressing a 5' end-mutated U1 small nuclear RNA (snRNA) to inhibit maturation of cypin mRNA. Neurons that express this mutant snRNA show little or no detectable cypin protein and fewer dendrites than normal. In addition, we found that cypin binds directly to tubulin heterodimers and promotes microtubule polymerization. Thus, our results demonstrate a new pathway by which dendrite patterning is regulated, and we also introduce a new method for decreasing endogenous protein expression in neurons.
The propagation and integration of signals in the dendrites of pyramidal neurons is regulated, in part, by the distribution and biophysical properties of voltage-gated ion channels. It is thus possible that any modification of these channels in a specific part of the dendritic tree might locally alter these signaling processes. Using dendritic and somatic whole-cell recordings, combined with calcium imaging in rat hippocampal slices, we found that the induction of long-term potentiation (LTP) was accompanied by a local increase in dendritic excitability that was dependent on the activation of NMDA receptors. These changes favored the back-propagation of action potentials into this dendritic region with a subsequent boost in the Ca(2+) influx. Dendritic cell-attached patch recordings revealed a hyperpolarized shift in the inactivation curve of transient, A-type K(+) currents that can account for the enhanced excitability. These results suggest an important mechanism associated with LTP for shaping signal processing and controlling dendritic function.
Influential theories of human emotion argue that subjective feeling states involve representation of bodily responses elicited by emotional events. Within this framework, individual differences in intensity of emotional experience reflect variation in sensitivity to internal bodily responses. We measured regional brain activity by functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) during an interoceptive task wherein subjects judged the timing of their own heartbeats. We observed enhanced activity in insula, somatomotor and cingulate cortices. In right anterior insular/opercular cortex, neural activity predicted subjects' accuracy in the heartbeat detection task. Furthermore, local gray matter volume in the same region correlated with both interoceptive accuracy and subjective ratings of visceral awareness. Indices of negative emotional experience correlated with interoceptive accuracy across subjects. These findings indicate that right anterior insula supports a representation of visceral responses accessible to awareness, providing a substrate for subjective feeling states.

Immunoglobulins couple the recognition of invading pathogens with the triggering of potent effector mechanisms for pathogen elimination. Different immunoglobulin classes trigger different effector mechanisms through interaction of immunoglobulin Fc regions with specific Fc receptors (FcRs) on immune cells. Here, we review the structural information that is emerging on three human immunoglobulin classes and their FcRs. New insights are provided, including an understanding of the antibody conformational adjustments that are required to bring effector cell and target cell membranes sufficiently close for efficient killing and signal transduction to occur. The results might also open up new possibilities for the design of therapeutic antibodies.


Neural spike train decoding algorithms and techniques to compute Shannon mutual information are important methods for analyzing how neural systems represent biological signals. Decoding algorithms are also one of several strategies being used to design controls for brain-machine interfaces. Developing optimal strategies to design decoding algorithms and compute mutual information are therefore important problems in computational neuroscience. We present a general recursive filter decoding algorithm based on a point process model of individual neuron spiking activity and a linear stochastic state-space model of the biological signal. We derive from the algorithm new instantaneous estimates of the entropy, entropy rate, and the mutual information between the signal and the ensemble spiking activity. We assess the accuracy of the algorithm by computing, along with the decoding error, the true coverage probability of the approximate 0.95 confidence regions for the individual signal estimates. We illustrate the new algorithm by reanalyzing the position and ensemble neural spiking activity of CA1 hippocampal neurons from two rats foraging in an open circular environment. We compare the performance of this algorithm with a linear filter constructed by the widely used reverse correlation method. The median decoding error for Animal 1 (2) during 10 minutes of open foraging was 5.9 (5.5) cm, the median entropy was 6.9 (7.0) bits, the median information was 9.4 (9.4) bits, and the true coverage probability for 0.95 confidence regions was 0.67 (0.75) using 34 (32) neurons. These findings improve significantly on our previous results and suggest an integrated approach to dynamically reading neural codes, measuring their properties, and quantifying the accuracy with which encoded information is extracted.
Pedal ganglia excised and maintained in culture for up to 2 h, release NO at low levels. The range can vary between 0 to 1.1 nM. Non-stimulated immunocytes do not significantly stimulate ganglionic NO release when incubated with pedal ganglia. However, ganglia exposed to immunocytes that had been previously activated by a 30 min incubation with interleukin 1 beta, release NO significantly above basal levels. In these experiments, 91 +/- 2.5% of the non-stimulated immunocytes exhibited form factors in the 0.72 to 0.89 range (sampled prior to ganglionic addition), whereas 62 +/- 10.3% of the interleukin 1 beta stimulated immunocytes had form factors in the 0.39 to 0.49 range, demonstrating activation. Addition of the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, L-NAME (10(-4) M), inhibited basal ganglionic NO release as well as that initiated by exposing the ganglia to activated immunocytes. Interestingly, non activated immunocytes, following ganglionic exposure, exhibited activity levels in the 13% range, representing a non significant increase. Cells exposed to interleukin 1 beta had a 65% activity level at the beginning of the experiment, followed by a drop of activity to 19 +/- 3.2% after ganglionic exposure. Repeating this last observation in the presence of L-NAME (10(-4) M), brought the activity level of the immunocytes back to the pre-ganglionic exposure level of activity, demonstrating that ganglionic NO was involved in down regulating immunocyte activity.
Humans, non-human primates and rodents show declines in spatial memory abilities with increased age. Some of these declines in mice are related to changes in the expression of the epsilon2 (epsilon2) (NR2B) subunit of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor. The purpose of this study was to determine whether primates show changes during aging in the mRNA expression of the NR2B subunit. In situ hybridization was performed on tissue sections from three different ages of Rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta; 6-8, 10-12, and 24-26 years). There was a significant decrease in the mRNA expression of the NR2B subunit overall in the prefrontal cortex and in the caudate nucleus between young and old monkeys. There were no significant changes in NR2B mRNA expression in the hippocampus or the parahippocampal gyrus. The results in the prefrontal cortex, caudate and hippocampus were similar to those seen previously in C57BL/6 mice during aging, which suggests that mice may be useful as a model for primates to further examine the age-related changes in the expression of the NR2B subunit of the NMDA receptor in several important regions of the brain.
This longitudinal study used the full twin model to estimate change and stability of genetic contributions to morphology of two brain structures, the corpus callosum and lateral ventricles. The 142 subjects were 34 monozygotic (MZ) and 37 dizygotic (DZ) elderly male twin pairs from the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (NHLBI) Twin Study who underwent brain magnetic resonance imaging twice, separated by a 4-year interval. Genetic factors accounted for a substantial portion of individual differences in the size of the corpus callosum and its substructures and of lateral ventricular size. Longitudinal genetic analyses revealed no significant change in the heritability of these structures and no evidence for new genetic variance at Time 2 not present at Time 1. However, both the callosal and ventricular measures showed evidence for new environmental variance at Time 2 not present at Time 1. Confirming a previously posed hypothesis, the phenotypic correlation between absolute change in height of the corpus callosum and absolute change in ventricular volume was significant. Bivariate genetic analysis estimated a significant genetic correlation between the changes in these two structures and the genetic variance in the change of callosal height was entirely due to genes involved in the expansion of ventricles. Genetic stability was present even in old age when brain and other morphological changes can be rapid and highly variable across individuals, inconsistent with an hypothesis that random DNA damage is the cause of aging.
Platelets release glutamate upon activation and are an important clearance system of the amino acid from blood, through high-affinity glutamate uptake, similar to that described in brain synaptosomes. Since platelet glutamate uptake is decreased in neurodegenerative disorders, we performed a morphological and molecular characterization of platelet glutamate transporters. The three major brain glutamate transporters EAAT1, EAAT2 and EAAT3 are expressed in platelets, with similar molecular weight, although at lower density than brain. A Na(+)-dependent-high-affinity glutamate uptake was competitively inhibited by known inhibitors but not by dihydrokainic acid, suggesting platelet EAAT2 does not play a major role in glutamate uptake at physiological conditions. We observed decreased glutamate uptake V(max), without modification of transporter affinity, in aging, which could be linked to the selective decrease of EAAT1 expression and mRNA. Moreover, in AD patients we found a further EAAT1 reduction compared to age-matched controls, which could explain the decrease of platelet uptake previously described. Platelet glutamate transporters may be used as peripheral markers to investigate the role of glutamate in patients with neuropsychiatric disorders.
Prions are transmissible pathogens that cause neurodegenerative diseases, although the mechanisms behind the nervous system dysfunctions are unclear. To study the effects of a prion infection on voltage-gated calcium channels, scrapie-infected gonadotropin-releasing hormone neuronal cells (ScGT1-1) in culture were depolarized by KCl and calcium responses recorded. Lower calcium responses were observed in infected compared to uninfected cells. This effect was still observed when L-type calcium channels were blocked by nimodipine. After inhibition of N-type calcium channels with omega-conotoxin GVIA, there was no difference in calcium responses. The calcium responses after nimodipine treatment became progressively lower during infection, but there was no major loss of the cellular prion protein (PrP(C)) or marked increase in accumulation of the abnormal prion protein (PrP(Sc)) in the cultures. These results indicate that scrapie infection causes a dysfunction of voltage-gated N-type calcium channels, which is exacerbated slowly over time. Quinacrine treatment cleared PrP(Sc) and restored calcium responses in the ScGT1-1 cultures.
Schizophrenia is associated with a cerebral glutathione deficit, which may leave the brain susceptible to oxidants. To study the consequences of a glutathione deficit, we treated developing rats with L-buthionine-(S,R)-sulfoximine (BSO), an inhibitor of glutathione synthesis, and later investigated their behaviour until adulthood. Since rodents may in some occasions compensate for a glutathione deficit by ascorbic acid (AA), we used Osteogenic Disorder Shionogi (ODS) mutant rats, which like humans, cannot synthetize ascorbic acid. Moreover, as hyperactivity of the dopaminergic system may be associated with schizophrenia, some rats were treated with the dopamine uptake inhibitor GBR 12909. Whereas ODS rats treated with either BSO or GBR 12909 alone had normal behaviour, rats treated with both BSO and GBR 12909 failed to discriminate between familiar and novel objects although other behaviours proved to be normal. In contrast, nonmutant rats were not affected by treatment with BSO and GBR 12909. Our results suggest that low brain glutathione and ascorbic acid levels associated with a perturbation of the dopaminergic system actively participate in the development of some cognitive deficits affecting schizophrenic patients.
We report data on stored knowledge of everyday tasks in a patient, FK, with 'action disorganisation syndrome'. In section 1, we analysed his explicit knowledge of the component actions, and their temporal order. FK showed generally impaired knowledge of everyday tasks relative to controls, and, when knowledge of the temporal order of the actions was probed, he showed particular impairments for the actions making up the final steps in tasks. In section 2 we assessed FK's implicit knowledge of the tasks, by evaluating how knowledge of the tasks influenced his ability to act out sets of instructions. We demonstrate that FK had some implicit knowledge of the tasks, but also, when actions had to be performed in the order as instructed, there was better knowledge of order for actions performed early rather than late in the task. We suggest that disordered task schema contributed to FK's deficits, with impairments on 'end' actions being vulnerable when task order was important for performance.
The present work shows that alpha-glycerylphosphorylethanolamine (alpha-GPE) is effective in recovering astrocytes from mitochondrial membrane integrity and potential derangement and cellular oxidative stress that occur under amyloid beta-peptides-induced reactive gliosis.alpha-Glycerylphosphorylethanolamine (alpha-GPE), a new compound with nootropic properties, known to improve in vivo the learning and memory processes, has been tested for its protective properties on an in vitro model of degeneration. Rat primary astrocytic cultures treated with two amyloid-derived peptides, Abeta((1-40)) and Abeta(3(pE)-42), showed a marked reduction of the mitochondrial redox activity and membrane potential, together with an increase of oxidative species production. Plasma membrane lipid peroxidation (LPO) as well as generation of peroxides is greatly increased under Abeta-peptides toxicity. These features, typical of the reactive gliosis that accompanies neuronal degeneration, were readily recovered by pretreatment with alpha-GPE. alpha-GPE, likely improving the fluidity of cell membrane, has the potential to recover astrocytes from the general redox derangement induced by different amyloid fragments and possibly to protect from inflammation, gliosis and neurodegeneration. This is the first evidence of an antioxidant effect of the ethanolamine derivative on a rat model of chronic gliosis.
Glutathione is a central component in the antioxidant defences of cells. We have recently reported an early and selective loss of total (reduced plus oxidised) glutathione from mitochondria isolated from rat brain following occlusion of the middle cerebral artery. This mitochondrial glutathione depletion showed an apparent association with the tissue damage that developed during subsequent reperfusion, suggesting that it could be an important determinant of susceptibility to cell loss. In the present study, we have investigated whether in vivo treatment with glutathione ethyl ester can modulate mitochondrial glutathione in the brain and whether this treatment can influence the response to focal ischemia. In further support of our previous findings, middle cerebral artery occlusion caused a duration-dependent partial loss of mitochondrial glutathione. Bilateral injections of glutathione ethyl ester immediately prior to induction of unilateral focal ischemia resulted in a substantial increase in glutathione in mitochondria from the striatum of both the non-ischemic hemisphere (190% of saline-treated controls) and the ischemic hemisphere (240% of controls) at 2h after arterial occlusion. Total tissue glutathione was not affected by the ester treatment at this time. A smaller increase in mitochondrial glutathione was observed at 3h of occlusion in the non-ischemic striatum following ester treatment but at this time point glutathione was not significantly altered in mitochondria from the ischemic hemisphere. Pre-ischemic treatment with glutathione ester did not significantly change the volume of tissue infarction assessed at 48 h following ischemia for 2 or 3h. These studies demonstrate that glutathione ethyl ester is a highly effective modulator of the mitochondrial glutathione pool in the intact brain and provides a useful means for further investigating the role of this antioxidant in the development of tissue damage in ischemia and other brain disorders.
The effect of electroacupuncture (EA) on the sexual behavior of male rats undergoing morphine withdrawal was studied by measuring various parameters of sexual behavior. In addition, the total serum testosterone (TST) concentrations in male rats at different times of morphine administration and abstinence were measured. Acute and chronic administration of morphine severely inhibited the sexual behavior of the rats and lowered their TST concentrations. TST concentrations recovered to normal within 24 h after the last morphine injection, while sexual behavior remained suppressed for at least 7 days. Electroacupuncture (2/100 Hz alternately) administered once daily for 7 days during morphine withdrawal facilitated the recovery of male sexual behavior and increased TST concentrations to above normal. The effect of EA on sexual behavior may involve both neuronal and hormonal pathways.
We have developed a novel technique to measure gastric volume in vivo in mice; this will be invaluable for revealing gastric alterations in genetically modified mice models, thus expanding our understanding of the mechanisms underlying functional disorders. Experimental data on gastric tone currently available has focused on rats using isovolumetric techniques to measure pressure changes, whereas clinical studies use barostatic techniques to measure volume changes. For better translational approaches, we assessed the feasibility of using a miniaturized barostat to measure gastric volume changes in urethane-anaesthetized and unanaesthetized-decerebrate mice. Additionally, we assessed whether central vagal stimulation alters gastric volume in urethane-anaesthetized mice. Nitric oxide donor sodium nitroprusside (1mg kg-1 i.p.) increased gastric volume (+134 +/- 20 microL), whereas the cholinergic agonist carbachol (3 microg kg-1 i.p.) decreased gastric volume (-153 +/- 20 microL). Similar responses were obtained in urethane-anaesthetized and unanaesthetized-decerebrate animals. Microinjection of L-glutamate (25 nmol) into dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus (DMV) altered gastric volume; microinjection into rostral DMV led to gastric contraction (-83 +/- 18 microL) while stimulation of caudal DMV resulted in gastric relaxation (+95 +/- 16 microL). This reveals a functional organization of DMV in mice. This study validates barostatic techniques for application to mice. An understanding of gastric contractility and tone is clinically relevant as impaired gastric accommodation reflex may be an underlying cause of functional dyspepsia.

A common distinction in contemporary research on episodic memory is between familiarity, an unsubstantiated impression that an event was experienced previously, and recollection, remembering some information plus the spatiotemporal context of the episode in which it was acquired. The epitome of pure familiarity--the butcher-on-the-bus phenomenon--occurs when one believes that a person is familiar (often upon seeing their face in an atypical context) while failing to recall any information about that person whatsoever. Prior research on familiarity and recollection has relied on verbal material. Whereas word meanings and pronunciations are well learned in advance, here we produced pure familiarity and recollection using photographs of faces never seen before the experiment. When participants recognized a face, recollection was inferred if they also remembered either the occupation associated with that face earlier in the experiment or any other episodic detail. Pure familiarity was inferred when recognition occurred in the absence of any such contextual retrieval. Analyses of brain potentials recorded during initial encoding showed that right-sided neural activity predicted subsequent face familiarity, whereas bilateral potentials predicted subsequent face recollection. Results during memory testing were inconsistent with the popular idea that familiarity is generically indexed by reduced frontal N400-like potentials. Instead, both memory experiences were associated with bilateral, parietal-maximum brain potentials, although with smaller amplitudes and for a shorter duration for familiarity. These similarities between electrophysiological correlates of pure familiarity and recollection suggest that familiarity with faces may arise by virtue of a subset of the neural processing responsible for recollection.
Accurate appraisal of meaningful environmental signals involves the interpretation of salient information for their intrinsic emotional value and personal relevance. We examined the neural basis for these components of endogenous salience during such appraisals using trial-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Subjects viewed affective pictures and assessed either the emotional intensity or extent of self-relatedness of the content of those pictures. In a parametric factorial design, individualized subjective ratings of these two dimensions were correlated with brain activity. The nucleus accumbens (NAcc) responded to both increasing emotional intensity and self-relatedness. Activity in the amygdala was specifically related to affective judgments and emotional intensity. The volitional act of appraising the extent of personal association specifically engaged the ventral medial prefrontal cortex (MPFC), and additionally recruited dorsal medial frontal regions and insula as the extent of self-relatedness increased. The findings highlight both overlapping and segregated neural representations of intrinsic value and personal relevance during the appraisal of emotional stimuli.
An algorithm for the optimisation of 3D Modified Driven Equilibrium Fourier Transform (MDEFT) sequences for T1-weighted anatomical brain imaging is presented. Imaging parameters are optimised for a clinical whole body scanner and a clinical head scanner operating at 1.5 and 3 T, respectively. In vivo studies show that the resulting sequences allow for the whole brain acquisition of anatomical scans with an isotropic resolution of 1 mm and high contrast-to-noise ratio (CNR) in an acceptable scan time of 12 min. Typical problems related to the scanner-specific hardware configurations are discussed in detail, especially the occurrence of flow artefacts in images acquired with head transmit coils and the enhancement of scalp intensities in images acquired with phased array receive coils. It is shown both theoretically and experimentally that these problems can be avoided by using spin tagging and fat saturation.
The ability to make judgments about mental states is critical to social interactions. Simulation theory suggests that the observer covertly mimics the activity of the observed person, leading to shared states of mind between the observer and the person observed. We tested this hypothesis by investigating the neural networks activated while subjects watched videos of themselves and of others lifting a box, and judged the beliefs of the actors about the weight of the box. A parietal premotor circuit was recruited during action perception, and the activity started earlier when making judgments about one's own actions as opposed to those of others. This earlier activity in action-related structures can be explained by simulation theory on the basis that when one observes one's own actions, there is a closer match between the simulated and perceived action than there is when one observes the actions of others. When the observers judged the actions to reflect a false belief, there was activation in the superior temporal sulcus, orbitofrontal, paracingulate cortex and cerebellum. We suggest that this reflects a mismatch between the perceived action and the predicted action's outcomes derived from simulation.
Speech perception can use not only auditory signals, but also visual information from seeing the speaker's mouth. The relative timing and relative location of auditory and visual inputs are both known to influence crossmodal integration psychologically, but previous imaging studies of audiovisual speech focused primarily on just temporal aspects. Here we used Positron Emission Tomography (PET) during audiovisual speech processing to study how temporal and spatial factors might jointly affect brain activations. In agreement with previous work, synchronous versus asynchronous audiovisual speech yielded increased activity in multisensory association areas (e.g., superior temporal sulcus [STS]), plus in some unimodal visual areas. Our orthogonal manipulation of relative stimulus position (auditory and visual stimuli presented at same location vs. opposite sides) and stimulus synchrony showed that (i) ventral occipital areas and superior temporal sulcus were unaffected by relative location; (ii) lateral and dorsal occipital areas were selectively activated for synchronous bimodal stimulation at the same external location; (iii) right inferior parietal lobule was activated for synchronous auditory and visual stimuli at different locations, that is, in the condition classically associated with the 'ventriloquism effect' (shift of perceived auditory position toward the visual location). Thus, different brain regions are involved in different aspects of audiovisual integration. While ventral areas appear more affected by audiovisual synchrony (which can influence speech identification), more dorsal areas appear to be associated with spatial multisensory interactions.
Humans can flexibly alter a plan of action to adjust their behavior adaptively in changing environments. Functional neuroimaging has shown distinct patterns of activation across a frontoparietal network responsible for switching and updating such plans of action or 'task sets.' However, little is known about the temporal order of activations within prefrontal or across with posterior regions subserving set-shifting operations. Here, whole-head magnetoencephalography (MEG) was used to explore the spatiotemporal brain dynamics in a modified version of the Wisconsin card-sorting test (WCST). Our task was designed to examine preparation of set-shifting rather than set-acquisition operations time locked to context-informative cues. Three cortical regions showed a larger number of MEG activity sources in response to shift and relative to nonshift cues: (a) inferior frontal gyrus (IFG; BA 45, 47/12), (b) anterior cingulate cortex (ACC; BA 24, 32), and (c) supramarginal gyrus (SMG; BA 40). Importantly, the timing of MEG activation differed across these regions. The earliest shift-related MEG activations were detected at the IFG (100-300 ms postcue onset), followed by two further peaks at the ACC (200-300 and 400-500 ms) and the SMG (300-400 and 500-600 ms). Several other prefrontal and posterior cortical areas were similarly activated by both shift and nonshift preparatory cues. The resulting temporal pattern of interactions within prefrontal and across with posterior association cortices is coherent with current models of task switching and provides novel information about the temporal course of brain activations responsible for the executive control of attention.
The amygdalae are important, if not critical, brain regions for many affective, attentional and memorial processes, and dysfunction of the amygdalae has been a consistent finding in the study of clinical depression. Theoretical models of the functional neuroanatomy of both normal and psychopathological affective processes which posit cortical hemispheric specialization of functions have been supported by both lesion and functional neuroimaging studies in humans. Results from human neuroimaging studies in support of amygdalar hemispheric specialization are inconsistent. However, recent results from human lesion studies are consistent with hemispheric specialization. An important, yet largely ignored, feature of the amygdalae in the primate brain--derived from both neuroanatomical and electrophysiological data--is that there are virtually no direct interhemispheric connections via the anterior commissure (AC). This feature stands in stark contrast to that of the rodent brain wherein virtually all amygdalar nuclei have direct interhemispheric connections. We propose this feature of the primate brain, in particular the human brain, is a result of influences from frontocortical hemispheric specialization which have developed over the course of primate brain evolution. Results consistent with this notion were obtained by examining the nature of human amygdalar interhemispheric connectivity using both functional magnetic resonance imaging (FMRI) and positron emission tomography (PET). We found modest evidence of amygdalar interhemispheric functional connectivity in the non-depressed brain, whereas there was strong evidence of functional connectivity in the depressed brain. We interpret and discuss the nature of this connectivity in the depressed brain in the context of dysfunctional frontocortical-amygdalar interactions which accompany clinical depression.
We use a neural mass model to address some important issues in characterising functional integration among remote cortical areas using magnetoencephalography or electroencephalography (MEG or EEG). In a previous paper [Neuroimage (in press)], we showed how the coupling among cortical areas can modulate the MEG or EEG spectrum and synchronise oscillatory dynamics. In this work, we exploit the model further by evaluating different measures of statistical dependencies (i.e., functional connectivity) among MEG or EEG signals that are mediated by neuronal coupling. We have examined linear and nonlinear methods, including phase synchronisation. Our results show that each method can detect coupling but with different sensitivity profiles that depended on (i) the frequency specificity of the interaction (broad vs. narrow band) and (ii) the nature of the coupling (linear vs. nonlinear). Our analyses suggest that methods based on the concept of generalised synchronisation are the most sensitive when interactions encompass different frequencies (broadband analyses). In the context of narrow-band analyses, mutual information was found to be the most sensitive way to disclose frequency-specific couplings. Measures based on generalised synchronisation and phase synchronisation are the most sensitive to nonlinear coupling. These different sensitivity profiles mean that the choice of coupling measures can have dramatic effects on the cortical networks identified. We illustrate this using a single-subject MEG study of binocular rivalry and highlight the greater recovery of statistical dependencies among cortical areas in the beta band when mutual information is used.
We used (15)O-labeled water (H(2)(15)O) positron emission tomography (PET) to study eight Parkinson's disease (PD) patients with unilateral ventral intermediate (Vim) thalamic nucleus deep brain stimulation (DBS) for severe tremor. Triaxial accelerometry (TRIAX) was used during imaging to obtain on-line measures of tremor characteristics. Regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) scans together with TRIAX recordings were collected in three stimulation conditions (OFF, MID, and ON, corresponding, respectively, to 0%, 50%, and 100% reductions in mean accelerometry signal). Statistical Parametric Mapping (SPM99) revealed significant rCBF reductions during stimulation in the ipsilateral sensorimotor cortex (SMC) and the contralateral cerebellum, as well as concurrent increases in the ipsilateral ventral thalamus (P &lt; 0.05, corrected). Covariate analysis of rCBF with physiological tremor characteristics revealed that tremor acceleration correlated positively with changes in the SMC and supplementary motor cortex ipsilaterally (P &lt; 0.05, uncorrected), and negatively with changes in the ipsilateral cuneus (P &lt; 0.05, corrected). After removing tremor acceleration effects, changes in tremor frequency correlated negatively with changes in the contralateral dentate nucleus and pons (P &lt; 0.05, uncorrected). Our results suggest that Vim DBS for PD tremor modulates the activity of cerebello-thalamo-cortical pathways. Specific tremor characteristics relate to activity in different nodes of this system.
Empathy requires the ability to map the feelings of others onto our own nervous system. Until recently, there was no plausible mechanism to explain how such a mapping might occur. The discovery of mirror neurons, however, suggests that the nervous system is capable of mapping the observed actions of others onto the premotor cortex of the self, at least for reaching and grasping movements. Is there a mirroring system for emotive actions, such as facial expression? Subjects (N = 15; all right-handed; eight men, seven women) watched movies of facial expressions (smile or frown) and hand movements (move index or middle finger) while brain activity was imaged using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Subjects watched the movies under three different conditions: passive viewing, active imitation, and an active motor control. Subjects also performed a verb generation task to functionally identify language-processing areas. We found evidence for a common cortical imitation circuit for both face and hand imitation, consisting of Broca's area, bilateral dorsal and ventral premotor areas, right superior temporal gyrus (STG), supplementary motor area, posterior temporo-occipital cortex, and cerebellar areas. For faces, passive viewing led to significant activation in the right ventral premotor area, whereas imitation produced bilateral activation. This result is consistent with evidence for right hemisphere (RH) dominance for emotional processing, and suggests that there may be a right hemisphere mirroring system that could provide a neural substrate for empathy.
Positive affect elicited in a mother toward her newborn infant may be one of the most powerful and evolutionarily preserved forms of positive affect in the emotional landscape of human behavior. This study examined the neurobiology of this form of positive emotion and in so doing, sought to overcome the difficulty of eliciting robust positive affect in response to visual stimuli in the physiological laboratory. Six primiparous human mothers with no indications of postpartum depression brought their infants into the laboratory for a photo shoot. Approximately 6 weeks later, they viewed photographs of their infant, another infant, and adult faces during acquisition of functional magnetic resonance images (fMRI). Mothers exhibited bilateral activation of the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) while viewing pictures of their own versus unfamiliar infants. While in the scanner, mothers rated their mood more positively for pictures of their own infants than for unfamiliar infants, adults, or at baseline. The orbitofrontal activation correlated positively with pleasant mood ratings. In contrast, areas of visual cortex that also discriminated between own and unfamiliar infants were unrelated to mood ratings. These data implicate the orbitofrontal cortex in a mother's affective responses to her infant, a form of positive emotion that has received scant attention in prior human neurobiological studies. Furthermore, individual variations in orbitofrontal activation to infant stimuli may reflect an important dimension of maternal attachment.
The relationships among cerebral blood flow (CBF), oxygen consumption (CMRO(2)) and glucose use (CMR(glc)) constitute the basis of functional brain-imaging. Here we report spatially dissociated changes of CMRO(2) and CBF during motor activity that lead us to propose a revision of conventional CBF-CMRO(2) coupling models. In the left primary and supplementary motor cortices, CBF and CMRO(2) rose significantly during finger-thumb tapping. However, in the right putamen CBF did not rise, despite a significant increase in CMRO(2). We explain these observations by invoking a central command mechanism that regulates CBF in the putamen in anticipation of movement. By this mechanism, CBF rose in the putamen before the measurements of CBF and CMRO(2) while CMRO(2) rose when actual motion commenced.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) was used to investigate changes in brain activity related to phonetic learning. Ten monolingual English-speaking subjects were scanned while performing an identification task both before and after five sessions of training with a Hindi dental-retroflex nonnative contrast. Behaviorally, training resulted in an improvement in the ability to identify the nonnative contrast. Imaging results suggest that the successful learning of a nonnative phonetic contrast results in the recruitment of the same areas that are involved during the processing of native contrasts, including the left superior temporal gyrus, insula-frontal operculum, and inferior frontal gyrus. Additionally, results of correlational analyses between behavioral improvement and the blood-oxygenation-level-dependent (BOLD) signal obtained during the posttraining Hindi task suggest that the degree of success in learning is accompanied by more efficient neural processing in classical frontal speech regions, and by a reduction of deactivation relative to a noise baseline condition in left parietotemporal speech regions.
Hereditary inclusion body myopathy and distal myopathy with rimmed vacuoles are both caused by mutations of the UDP-N-acetylglucosamine 2-epimerase/N-acetylmannosamine kinase (GNE) gene. Here we report a Japanese patient with compound heterozygous missense mutations in the epimerase domain of GNE gene, 89 G to C and 578 A to T. Biochemical analysis demonstrated decreased reactivity of skeletal muscle glycoproteins with the lectins recognizing sialic acid residues. The results suggest that hyposialylation of glycoproteins may be involved in the pathogenesis of muscle dysfunction in this patient.
The autonomic nervous system has been evaluated in myotonic dystrophy with contradictory results and its relationship with heart disturbances remains unclear. Twenty-three patients with myotonic dystrophy type 1 were investigated by a battery of six cardiovascular autonomic tests and power spectral analysis of heart rate variability. Although 15 patients (65%) revealed abnormal or borderline results in some tests, only one patient had a definite autonomic damage, as indicated by two or more abnormal tests. As a group, myotonic dystrophy type 1 patients showed a significant reduction of heart rate variability during deep breathing (P &lt; 0.0001). The exclusive involvement of parasympathetic tests suggests that a mild vagal dysfunction occurs in some myotonic dystrophy type 1 patients. The results indicate that such autonomic abnormalities are not: (1) part of a peripheral neuropathy; (2) related to cytosine-thymine-guanine repeat size or breathing pattern. Power spectral analysis showed a reduction of supine low-frequency band, which is, but not exclusively, a marker of sympathetic activity. It was inversely correlated to disease duration (P &lt; 0.04), suggesting a progression as the disease advances. A low-frequency power, recorded after standing, was significantly associated (P &lt; 0.02) with presence of heart involvement. Our findings suggest that a mixed, especially parasympathetic, autonomic dysfunction may occur in myotonic dystrophy type 1, although it is not a major finding. It could play a role in the occurrence of cardiac abnormalities, or increase the risk of sudden cardiovascular events.
The migration of oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPCs) is modulated by secreted molecules in their environment and by cell-cell and matrix-cell interactions. Here, we ask whether membrane-anchored guidance cues, such as the ephrin ligands and their Eph receptors, participate in the control of OPC migration in the optic nerve. We postulate that EphA and EphB receptors, which are expressed on axons of retinal ganglion cells, interact with ephrins on the surface of OPCs. We show the expression of ephrinA5, ephrinB2 and ephrinB3 in the migrating OPCs of the optic nerve as well as in the diencephalic sites from where they originate. In addition, we demonstrate that coated EphB2-Fc receptors, which are specific for ephrinB2/B3 ligands, induce dramatic changes in the contact and migratory properties of OPCs, indicating that axonal EphB receptors activate ephrinB signaling in OPCs.Based on these findings, we propose that OPCs are characterized by an ephrin code, and that Eph-ephrin interactions between axons and OPCs control the distribution of OPCs in the optic axonal tracts, and the progress and arrest of their migration.
Myelin-associated glycoprotein (MAG) has been implicated in inhibition of nerve regeneration in the CNS. This results from interactions between MAG and the Nogo receptor and gangliosides on the apposing axon, which generates intracellular inhibitory signals in the neuron. However, because myelin-axon signaling is bidirectional, we undertook an analysis of potential MAG-activated signaling in oligodendrocytes (OLs). In this study, we show that antibody cross-linking of MAG on the surface of OLs (to mimic axonal binding) leads to the redistribution of MAG into detergent (TX-100)-insoluble complexes, hyperphosphorylation of Fyn, dephosphorylation of serine and threonine residues in specific proteins, including lactate dehydrogenase and the beta subunit of the trimeric G-protein-complex, and cleavage of alpha-fodrin followed by a transient depolymerization of actin. We propose that these changes are part of a signaling cascade in OLs associated with MAG function as a mediator of axon-glial communication which might have implications for the mutual regulation of the formation and stability of axons and myelin.
In this review, we discuss examples that show how glial-cell pathology is increasingly recognized in several neurodegenerative diseases. We also discuss the more provocative idea that some of the disorders that are currently considered to be neurodegenerative diseases might, in fact, be due to primary abnormalities in glia. Although the mechanism of glial pathology (i.e. modulating glutamate excitotoxicity) might be better established for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), a role for neuronal-glial interactions in the pathogenesis of most neurodegenerative diseases is plausible. This burgeoning area of neuroscience will receive much attention in the future and it is expected that further understanding of basic neuronal-glial interactions will have a significant impact on the understanding of the fundamental nature of human neurodegenerative disorders.
Little is known about the functional connectivity between astrocytes in the CNS. To explore this issue we photo-released glutamate onto a single astrocyte in murine hippocampal slices and imaged calcium responses. Photo-release of glutamate causes a metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR)-dependent increase in internal calcium in the stimulated astrocyte and delayed calcium elevations in neighboring cells. The delayed elevation in calcium was not caused by either neuronal activity following synaptic transmission or by glutamate released from astrocytes. However, it was reduced by flufenamic acid (FFA), which is consistent with a role for adenosine triphosphate (ATP) release from astrocytes as an intercellular messenger. Exogenous ligands such as ATP (1 mircoM) increased the number of astrocytes that were recruited into coupled astrocytic networks, indicating that extracellular accumulation of neurotransmitters modulates neuronal excitability, synaptic transmission and functional coupling between astrocytes.
The molecular bases of late-onset and sporadic Alzheimer's disease (AD) still have to be unraveled. Among putative candidates for molecular variations in AD, we propose LMO4 protein, a transcription regulator, involved in multiple protein complexes. We investigated changes in LMO4 immunoreactivity in vulnerable brain regions of AD cases and controls of comparable age. Immunocytochemical analysis revealed a high level of LMO4 expression in the entorhinal cortex (EC) and in the CA1 hippocampal region of the control brains and a consistent decrease in the AD brains, correlated with the amount of neurofibrillary tangles (NFT) degenerating neurones and the severity of senile plaques deposition. The decrease in LMO4 immunoreactivity resulted both from weaker immunoreactive signals and from a loss of immunoreactive neurones. LMO4 immunocytochemical staining appeared not to be colocalized with NFT in a majority of neurones. Its expression was weak in the dentate gyrus and stronger in CA3-4, two regions with no or low numbers of NFT, but there was no decrease in AD compared to control cases. In the frontal cortex, the ventro-infero-median region (area 12) showed a greater LMO4 expression than the polar one (area 9), but no decrease in AD was observed. As LMO4 has been proposed to inhibit cellular differentiation, it can be hypothesized that a reduced expression is associated in EC and CA1 with attempts of diseased neurones to differentiate (e.g. compensatory neuritogenesis). Taken together, these data indicate that LMO4 protein is involved in the complexity of the disease phenotype, at least as a secondary factor.
Pathological relationships between damage to the deep white matter of the cerebral cortex [as evidenced by myelin loss (ML)], cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) and arteriosclerosis (ART) were investigated in the brains of 137 patients with autopsy-confirmed Alzheimer's disease (AD), in order to better understand the causes of white matter damage in AD, and the contribution of this to the pathogenesis of the disorder. All 137 patients had some degree of CAA in one or more brain regions although the occipital cortex was severely affected by CAA more frequently, and consequently mean CAA severity score was significantly greater, than other cortical regions. Eighty-seven patients (63.5%) were affected by ML, with more patients showing ML from occipital cortex than from other cortical regions leading to a significantly higher mean ML severity score in this region. One hundred and twenty-six patients (92%) were affected by ART, although the occipital cortex was not more frequently affected by ART than other cortical areas, the mean ART severity score in occipital cortex was nonetheless significantly greater than that of frontal and temporal cortex. Eighty-seven patients showed both CAA and ML, although there was only a weak correlation between degree of CAA and extent of ML (P = 0.035). Forty-seven patients showed ML and significant ART, 16 patients showed significant ART but no ML, 40 patients showed ML in the absence of significant ART and 34 patients showed neither significant ART nor ML. Overall, and for each of the four brain regions, the extent of ML correlated significantly (P &lt; 0.001) with degree of ART. However, when only those 47 patients with ML and significant ART were considered, much stronger correlations between the extent of ML and the degree of ART were achieved both overall and within each of the four brain regions. The overall ART severity score (and overall scores for each pathological marker of ART) significantly correlated with that of CAA (P &lt; 0.001). Pathological processes leading to white matter damage, in terms of ML at least, in AD are thus likely to be heterogeneous. Many patients suffer ML in association with ART, but in others ML cannot be explained by presence of ART or CAA. In such patients, autoregulatory changes in blood vessels might be responsible for ML. The association between the extent of CAA and ART suggests shared risk factors for each pathological change.
We investigated whether group III metabotropic glutamate (mGlu) receptors are critically involved in the expression of long-term potentiation (LTP), depotentiation, or long-term depression (LTD) in the dentate gyrus of freely moving rats. Male Wistar rats (7 8 weeks) underwent implantation of stimulating and recording electrodes in the medial perforant path and dentate gyrus granule cell layer, respectively. A cannula was permanently implanted into the ipsilateral cerebral ventricle to enable drug administration. Intracerebral injection of the group III mGlu receptor agonist, L(+)-2-amino-4-phosphonobutanoic acid (AP4), significantly inhibited LTP at a concentration which unaffects basal synaptic transmission. Depotentiation. short-term depression (STD) and LTDwere unaffected by the agonist. The antagonist. (R.S)-r-cyclopropyl-4-phosphonophenylglycine (CPPG), inhibited agonist effects. but had no independent effects on basal synaptic transmission. CPPG did not affect the profile of LTP, depotentiation or STD elicited by low frequency stimulation (LFS) at 0.5 or 3 Hz. but significantly impaired LTD expression (at I Hz) and STD elicited at 5 Hz. These findings suggest that activation of group III mGlu receptors is critically required for LTD. but not LTP or depotentiation in the dentate gyrus and provide evidence for the involvement of separate mechanisms underlying LTD and depotentiation.
Clinical studies of patients with treatment-resistant depression have shown that combined treatment with fluoxetine and olanzapine rapidly and significantly improved depressive symptoms. The present study used in vivo microdialysis to investigate the brain regional and dose effects of these drugs on extracellular monoamine concentrations in the rat prefrontal cortex, hypothalamus, nucleus accumbens and striatum. In the prefrontal cortex, the olanzapine/fluoxetine combination (3/10 mg/kg, respectively) increased catecholamine concentrations to a significantly greater extent than either drug alone (dopamine mean+/-S.E.M. percent of baseline: olanzapine (120 +/- 12.4), fluoxetine (123 +/- 6.2), combination (185 +/- 8.8); norepinephrine: olanzapine (124 +/- 7.2), fluoxetine (126 +/- 5.0), combination (215 +/- 15.8)). The combination also increased serotonin concentrations to 156 +/- 11.0% of baseline, but to a lesser extent than fluoxetine alone (210 +/- 14.5%). Similar synergistic effects of the combination were observed in the hypothalamus, but not in the other regions studied. The dose response effects of the drugs alone and in combination were complex, but larger doses of the combinations produced greater monoamine concentration increases than smaller dose combinations. The effects of the olanzapine/fluoxetine combination are meaningful in prefrontal cortex and hypothalamus due to their hypothesized role in the etiology and pharmacotherapy of depression. The wide-ranging neurochemical effects of this drug combination may make it particularly useful as a treatment for complex, resistant depressions.
This study examined the involvement of the 5-HT(2A) receptor in the long-term anxiogenic effect of a brief exposure of young rats to 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) using the social interaction and elevated plus-maze paradigms. Wistar rats (post-natal day (PND) 28) received either MDMA (5 mg/kg i.p.) or saline (1 ml/kg i.p.) hourly for 4 h on 2 consecutive days. Locomotor activity was measured for 60 min after the first injection and core body temperature was recorded at regular intervals over 4 h. On PND 84, without further drug administration, social interaction was assessed between treatment-matched rat pairs derived from separate litters. On PND 86, rats received either the 5-HT(2A/2C) receptor agonist, 1-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane (DOI, 1 mg/kg i.p.) or saline and locomotor activity, wet-dog shakes and back muscle contractions were monitored. The change in elevated plus-maze behaviour was assessed following the same injection on PND 87. Acutely, MDMA produced a significant hyperlocomotion and hyperthermia (p&lt;0.01). Following 55 days of abstinence, social interaction was reduced by 27% in MDMA pre-treated rats compared with that in controls (p&lt;0.01). On the elevated plus-maze, pre-treatment with MDMA prevented the anxiogenic effect of DOI. On PND 92, hippocampal, frontal cortical and striatal 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) was significantly reduced in MDMA pre-treated rats by between 16% and 22%, without any accompanying change in [(3)H]paroxetine binding in cortical homogenates. In conclusion, exposure of young rats to repeated MDMA caused serotonin depletion and induced 'anxiety-like' behaviour in the social interaction test accompanied by a long-lasting reduction in specific 5-HT(2A) receptor mediated behaviour.
Incentive motivation theory ascribes a critical role to reward-associated stimuli in the generation and maintenance of goal-directed behavior. Repeated psychomotor stimulant treatment, in addition to producing sensitization to the psychomotor-activating effects, can enhance the incentive salience of reward-associated cues and increase their ability to influence behavior. In the present study, we sought to investigate this incentive sensitization effect further by developing a model of conditioned reinforcement (CR) in the mouse and investigating the effects of a sensitizing treatment regimen of amphetamine on CR. Furthermore, we assessed the role of contextual stimuli in amphetamine-induced potentiation of CR. We found that mice responded selectively on a lever resulting in the presentation of a cue previously associated with 30% condensed milk solution, indicating that the cue had attained rewarding properties. Prior treatment with amphetamine (4 x 0.5 mg/kg i.p.) resulted in psychomotor sensitization and enhanced subsequent responding for the CR. Furthermore, this enhancement of responding for the cue occurred independent of the drug-paired context, whereas the sensitized locomotor response was only observed when mice were tested in the same environment as that in which they had received previous amphetamine. These results demonstrate that the CR paradigm previously developed in the rat can be successfully adapted for use in the mouse, and suggest that behavioral sensitization to amphetamine increases the rewarding properties (incentive salience) of reward-paired cues, independent of the drug-paired context.
Neurons in the inferior temporal (IT) cortex respond not only to the shape, color or texture of objects, but to the horizontal positional disparity of visual features in the right and left retinal images. IT neurons with similar shape selectivity cluster in columns. In this study, we examined how IT neurons are spatially arranged in the IT according to their selectivity for binocular disparity. With a single electrode, we simultaneously recorded extracellular action potentials from a single neuron and those from background multiple neurons at the same sites or recorded multineuronal responses at successive sites along electrode penetrations, while monkeys performed a fixation task. For neurons at each recording site, effective shapes were first determined from a set of 20 shapes presented at the zero-disparity plane. The most effective shape was then presented with varying amounts of disparity. Single neuron responses and background multiunit responses recorded at the same sites showed a similar ability of disparity discrimination and tended to share the preferred disparity, suggesting that neurons with similar disparity selectivity are clustered in the IT. We estimated from sequential recordings along electrode penetrations that the size of the neuronal clusters with similar disparity selectivity was smaller than the size of clusters with similar shape selectivity.
We can precisely control only what we can sense. Sensing limb position or limb movement is essential when we precisely control our limb movements. It has been generally believed that somatic perception takes place in the neuronal network of somatosensory areas. Recent neuroimaging techniques (PET, fMRI, transcranial magnetic stimulation) have revealed in human brains that motor areas participate in somatic perception of limb movements during kinesthetic illusion in the absence of actual limb movement. In particular, the primary motor cortex, which is an executive locus of voluntary limb movements, is primarily responsible for kinesthetic perception of limb movements. This probably forms the most efficient circuits for voluntary limb movements between the controlled muscles and the motor areas.




Advances in the neurosciences over the past two decades have elucidated that alcoholism is a chronic and easily recurring disorder, which is based on brain damage induced by long-term ethanol consumption. Researchers have identified neural circuits that subsume the actions of ethanol and they have also elaborated many of the intracellular signalling pathways that follow receptor activation by ethanol, suggesting a substantial difference between the addicted brain and non-addicted brain. However, most of the molecular biological changes, which are likely based on the transition from occasional drinking to alcohol dependence, remain to be elucidated. This review summarizes the findings on the biological background of alcoholism concerning the brain rewarding system, its related receptors, and the second messenger-mediated signal transduction system within the cells, especially focusing on the cyclic AMP signaling pathway calcium (Ca2+) system in neurons. In addition, our studies with neural stem cells are introduced to indicate future directions of research on the pathophysiology of alcoholism.
This article gives an overview on radiotracer imaging with positron emission tomography (PET) in measuring various aspects of neurotransmission. The review focuses on the dopaminergic system, the GABA/benzodiazepine system, and the opiate system. Besides dealing with the current clinical applications for brain PET studies with specific radiopharmaceuticals this article outlines an idea on potential future developments for the use of these methods in basic neuroscience.
Omega-3 or n-3 fatty acids, especially docosahexaenoic acid, are important structural lipids in the brain. Their deficiency leads to a number of sensory, cognitive and behavioral effects. In previous studies, we showed that n-3 deficiency led to a decrease in the neuronal size of a number of brain regions in young rats. In particular, the neuronal size in the hippocampus CA1-CA3 layers decreased with a slight increase in the volumes of these layers. Therefore, we asked whether fatty acid deficiency could affect rat brain morphology in older animals. To address this question, we carried out gross morphological analysis using Magnetic Resonance Imaging on the gray and white matter volumes of brains in older rats (&gt; 15 months) that were raised on n-3 deficient diets for three generations. We did not detect any differences in the total or regional gray and white matter volumes of brains of old rats maintained on a n-3 deficient or supplemented diet.


Little is known regarding satiety effects of systemically administered cholecystokinin (CCK-8) in propensity or resistance to dietary-induced obesity (DIO), and of its effect under conditions of melanocortin-3/4R blockade. We found that CCK-8 exerted greater satiety effects in DIO-prone but not DIO-resistant rats, and this occurred only when the rats were placed on a high-fat (HF) diet, when DIO-prone rats failed to compensate for the greater energy density of the diet. CCK-8 also suppressed intake stimulated by melanocortin-3/4R antagonist, SHU9119, but only after 24h of increased feeding. This suggests that under both of these conditions, responsiveness to CCK's satiety effect is not so much affected by a HF diet or significant increases in body weight per se, but by a failure to rapidly limit food intake to that needed only for metabolic need. Identification of an early feeding mediator that is most strongly activated by a HF diet or by an acute challenge to energy homeostasis should provide an ideal anti-obesity target adjunct to CCK-8.
Paraventricular (PVN) concentrations of neuropeptide Y (NPY), serotonin (5-HT) and dopamine (DA) in anorectic tumor-bearing (TB) rats were measured before and after tumor resection. At onset of anorexia in TB versus non-tumor bearing (NTB) Controls 5-HT increased from 12.19+/-0.49 pg/microg to 14.89+/-0.81 pg/microg ( P&lt;0.05 ) while DA and NPY decreased from 7.34+/-0.42 pg/microg to 4.97+/-0.56 pg/microg and 23.47+/-4.27 pg/microg to 13.64+/-1.44 pg/microg, respectively ( P&lt;0.05 ). After tumor resection, these neuromediators normalized when compared to sham-operated NTB rats. NTB pair-fed Controls were also studied. We conclude that the increased 5-HT and the decreased DA and NPY concentrations in PVN are associated with cancer anorexia and that the NPY food stimulatory effect is linked to serotoninergic and dopaminergic systems in hypothalamus.
Mate attraction in the marine mollusk Aplysia involves long-distance waterborne chemical signaling via the release of the peptide pheromone attractin during egg laying. Aplysia californica attractin attracts conspecifics, reduces the latency to mating, and stimulates hermaphroditic mating. Four additional members of the Aplysia attractin family have recently been characterized from Aplysia brasiliana, Aplysia fasciata, Aplysia depilans, and Aplysia vaccaria. The five sequences differ significantly, but share six cysteine residues and the strictly conserved sequence Ile30-Glu-Glu-Cys-Lys-Thr-Ser36. Attractin is attractive to geographically and evolutionarily distant species, suggesting that the conserved heptapeptide region may be important for mate attraction. Consistent with this prediction, a synthetic constrained cyclic peptide that contains the conserved heptapeptide sequence is significantly attractive in T-maze bioassays. The attractins are the first family of waterborne peptide pheromones characterized in invertebrates and are unique in that family members are not species-specific pheromonal attractants.
The effects of odor processing were investigated at various analytical levels, from simple sensory analysis to deep or semantic analysis, on a subsequent task of odor naming. Students (106 women, 23.6 +/- 5.5 yr. old; 65 men, 25.1 +/- 7.1 yr. old) were tested. The experimental procedure included two successive sessions, a first session to characterize a set of 30 odors with criteria that used various depths of processing and a second session to name the odors as quickly as possible. Four processing conditions rated the odors using descriptors before naming the odor. The control condition did not rate the odors before naming. The processing conditions were based on lower-level olfactory judgments (superficial processing), higher-level olfactory-gustatory-somesthetic judgments (deep processing), and higher-level nonolfactory judgments (Deep-Control processing, with subjects rating odors with auditory and visual descriptors). One experimental condition successively grouped lower- and higher-level olfactory judgments (Superficial-Deep processing). A naming index which depended on response accuracy and the subjects' response time were calculated. Odor naming was modified for 18 out of 30 odorants as a function of the level of processing required. For 94.5% of significant variations, the scores for odor naming were higher following those tasks for which it was hypothesized that the necessary olfactory processing was carried out at a deeper level. Performance in the naming task was progressively improved as follows: no rating of odors, then superficial, deep-control, deep, and superficial-deep processings. These data show that the deepest olfactory encoding was later associated with progressively higher performance in naming.
In two previous experiments the ratings of the pleasantness of the experiences for a total of 45 subjects tested within a specific experimental setting were negatively correlated (rhos about -.35 to -.40) with the global geomagnetic activity on the days of the ratings. In the present analysis, subjective ratings from a comparable experiment completed 13 years ago were also negatively correlated (rho = -.50) with the global geomagnetic activity on the days of the experiences. The consistency of these results suggests a common neurophysiological process that generates hedonistic affect with which the multiple types of behaviors, such as aggression, homicide, traffic fatalities, epileptic seizures, and industrial accidents, are correlated. Consequently these apparently &quot;divergent&quot; behaviors are correlated with geomagnetic activity because they are correlated with a central neurophysiological process which may be sensitive to increases in geomagnetic activity.
The vesicular amine transporters (VATs) are expressed as integral proteins of the lipid bilayer membrane of secretory vesicles in neuronal and endocrine cells. Their function is to allow the transport of acetylcholine (by the vesicular acetylcholine transporter VAChT; SLC18A3) and biogenic amines (by the vesicular monoamine transporters VMAT1 and VMAT2; SLC18A1 and SLC18A2) into secretory vesicles, which then discharge them into the extracellular space by exocytosis. Transport of positively charged amines by members of the SLC18 family in all cases utilizes an electrochemical gradient across the vesicular membrane established by proton pumping into the vesicle via a vacuolar ATPase; the amine is accumulated in the vesicle at the expense of the proton gradient, at a ratio of one translocated amine per two translocated protons. The members of the SLC18 family have become important histochemical markers for chemical coding in neuroendocrine tissues and cells. The structural basis of their remarkable ability to transport positively charged amines against a very large concentration gradient, as well as potential disease association with impaired transporter function and expression, are under intense investigation.
Hallucinogens (psychedelics) are psychoactive substances that powerfully alter perception, mood, and a host of cognitive processes. They are considered physiologically safe and do not produce dependence or addiction. Their origin predates written history, and they were employed by early cultures in a variety of sociocultural and ritual contexts. In the 1950s, after the virtually contemporaneous discovery of both serotonin (5-HT) and lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD-25), early brain research focused intensely on the possibility that LSD or other hallucinogens had a serotonergic basis of action and reinforced the idea that 5-HT was an important neurotransmitter in brain. These ideas were eventually proven, and today it is believed that hallucinogens stimulate 5-HT(2A) receptors, especially those expressed on neocortical pyramidal cells. Activation of 5-HT(2A) receptors also leads to increased cortical glutamate levels presumably by a presynaptic receptor-mediated release from thalamic afferents. These findings have led to comparisons of the effects of classical hallucinogens with certain aspects of acute psychosis and to a focus on thalamocortical interactions as key to understanding both the action of these substances and the neuroanatomical sites involved in altered states of consciousness (ASC). In vivo brain imaging in humans using [(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose has shown that hallucinogens increase prefrontal cortical metabolism, and correlations have been developed between activity in specific brain areas and psychological elements of the ASC produced by hallucinogens. The 5-HT(2A) receptor clearly plays an essential role in cognitive processing, including working memory, and ligands for this receptor may be extremely useful tools for future cognitive neuroscience research. In addition, it appears entirely possible that utility may still emerge for the use of hallucinogens in treating alcoholism, substance abuse, and certain psychiatric disorders.
The study of neural plasticity has expanded rapidly in the past decades and has shown the remarkable ability of the developing, adult, and aging brain to be shaped by environmental inputs in health and after a lesion. Robust experimental evidence supports the hypothesis that neuronal aggregates adjacent to a lesion in the sensorimotor brain areas can take over progressively the function previously played by the damaged neurons. It definitely is accepted that such a reorganization modifies sensibly the interhemispheric differences in somatotopic organization of the sensorimotor cortices. This reorganization largely subtends clinical recovery of motor performances and sensorimotor integration after a stroke. Brain functional imaging studies show that recovery from hemiplegic strokes is associated with a marked reorganization of the activation patterns of specific brain structures. To regain hand motor control, the recovery process tends over time to bring the bilateral motor network activation toward a more normal intensity/extent, while overrecruiting simultaneously new areas, perhaps to sustain this process. Considerable intersubject variability exists in activation/hyperactivation pattern changes over time. Some patients display late-appearing dorsolateral prefrontal cortex activation, suggesting the development of &quot;executive&quot; strategies to compensate for the lost function. The AH in stroke often undergoes a significant &quot;remodeling&quot; of sensory and motor hand somatotopy outside the &quot;normal&quot; areas, or enlargement of the hand representation. The UH also undergoes reorganization, although to a lesser degree. Although absolute values of the investigated parameters fluctuate across subjects, secondary to individual anatomic variability, variation is minimal with regards to interhemispheric differences, due to the fact that individual morphometric characters are mirrored in the two hemispheres. Excessive interhemispheric asymmetry of the sensorimotor hand areas seems to be the parameter with highest sensitivity in describing brain reorganization after a monohemispheric lesion, and mapping motor and somatosensory cortical areas through focal TMS, fMRI, PET, EEG, and MEG is useful in studying hand representation and interhemispheric asymmetries in normal and pathologic conditions. TMS and MEG allow the detection of sensorimotor areas reshaping, as a result of either neuronal reorganization or recovery of the previously damaged neural network. These techniques have the advantage of high temporal resolution but also have limitations. TMS provides only bidimensional scalp maps, whereas MEG, even if giving three-dimensional mapping of generator sources, does so by means of inverse procedures that rely on the choice of a mathematical model of the head and the sources. These techniques do not test movement execution and sensorimotor integration as used in everyday life. fMRI and PET may provide the ideal means to integrate the findings obtained with the other two techniques. This multitechnology combined approach is at present the best way to test the presence and amount of plasticity phenomena underlying partial or total recovery of several functions, sensorimotor above all. Dynamic patterns of recovery are emerging progressively from the relevant literature. Enhanced recruitment of the affected cortex, be it spared perilesional tissue, as in the case of cortical stroke, or intact but deafferented cortex, as in subcortical strokes, seems to be the rule, a mechanism especially important in early postinsult stages. The transfer over time of preferential activation toward contralesional cortices, as observed in some cases, seems, however, to reflect a less efficient type of plastic reorganization, with some aspects of maladaptive plasticity. Reinforcing the use of the affected side can cause activation to increase again in the affected side with a corresponding enhancement of clinical function. Activation of the UH MI may represent recruitment of direct (uncrossed) corticospinal tracts and relate more to mirror movements, but it more likely reflects activity redistribution within preexisting bilateral, large-scale motor networks. Finally, activation of areas not normally engaged in the dysfunctional tasks, such as the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex or the superior parietal cortex in motor paralysis, might reflect the implication of compensatory cognitive strategies. An integrated approach with technologies able to investigate functional brain imaging is of considerable value in providing information on the excitability, extension, localization, and functional hierarchy of cortical brain areas. Deepening knowledge of the mechanisms regulating the long-term recovery (even if partial), observed for most neurologic sequelae after neural damage, might prompt newer and more efficacious therapeutic and rehabilitative strategies for neurologic diseases.
Age-related changes in auditory evoked potentials are complex and complicated by the confounding effects of gender; concomitant high-frequency hearing sensitivity loss; and, in the case of event-related responses, the nature of the task used to elicit the response. There is a tendency for amplitude to decline and latency to increase, but these trends are not always clear-cut. There is also a tendency for activation patterns to move forward from parietal to frontal areas as age increases. The dichotic listening tool has revealed age-related changes in interaural and interhemispheric asymmetries. These asymmetries seem to be related to loss in the efficiency of interhemispheric transfer via the corpus callosum.
This article has reviewed several abnormalities in the cognitive ERPs of AD patients. These abnormalities are prominent from latencies of approximately 200 msec and later. In contrast, sensory-dependent evoked potentials, such as N100, are generally normal in AD. This finding is as one familiar with the neuropathology of AD would predict. Predilection sites in early AD include the medial temporal lobe, other limbic areas, and multimodal association cortices with sparing of primary sensory areas. Unimodal association cortex is involved in AD, but not as heavily as multimodal cortex. Particular advantages of studying a given ERP paradigm or component depend largely on the specific application or hypothesis being tested. A P300 paradigm can be useful in detecting a disorder of attention or in quantifying the effects of drugs that improve attention, such as the cholinesterase inhibitors. For the early diagnosis of AD or other memory disorders, a word-repetition paradigm with an explicit recognition task or one that fosters associative learning would be recommended. This article has discussed potential use of N400 in tracking disease progression. ERPs provide a flexible and powerful technique, with superb temporal resolution, which can be used as a probe into subtle &quot;subclinical&quot; abnormalities of cognitive processes. Despite being applied to AD for about 25 years since the early P300 studies, the full potential of ERPs in helping diagnose and treat AD patients has yet to be realized. In this era of rapidly evolving brain-imaging techniques, electrophysiologic data are important in advancing understanding of cognition. Brain-mapping techniques that can inform where and when key cognitive processes occur are finally emerging. A final example of potential clinical application of cognitive ERPs is in the development of rational combinational treatment of cognitive enhancing drugs. Along these lines, P300 investigations in epilepsy proved helpful in ranking the cognitive side effects of anticonvulsant drugs. Drug studies that use 2 x 2 combinational designs, which compare the effects of drug A, drug B, with A + B, are currently prohibitively expensive for full-scale clinical trials in AD. It is likely that precise ERP measures could hasten drug development in several ways. Smaller samples could be used, at lower cost, to test the cognitive effects of each specific drug combination. Optimal doses of combinational therapy perhaps could be identified by repeated within-subject ERP measures. Longitudinal changes in the ERP hold promise as a marker of individual responsivity to a particular agent, which could have diagnostic utility (eg, testing response to cholinergic or dopaminergic therapy). This horizon and many others remain wide open for well-planned explorations.
Sex differences in the ingestion of food and concentrated NaCl solutions by rats have been investigated for more than a quarter of a century, though the underlying mechanism(s) and the role of reproductive hormones remain the subject of debate. We hypothesized that sex differences in the ingestion of sucrose and NaCl solutions are attributable, in part, to sex differences in taste responses/taste perception. We employed short-access, 10-s tests along with 18-h, two-bottle preference tests to examine sex differences in sensitivity to and ingestion of sucrose and NaCl solutions. To evaluate the role of estrogen, we ovariectomized (OVX) female rats and then used an estrogen-replacement schedule that mimics the pattern of fluctuation of estrogen levels in intact female rats. We observed striking sex differences in the rate of licking NaCl mixed in a dilute sucrose solution. Compared to males, OVX rats with or without estrogen licked at higher rates to more concentrated NaCl solutions, suggesting that female rats are less sensitive to concentrated NaCl solutions. Although less pronounced, we also observed sex differences in the rate of licking to sucrose, particularly at lower concentrations. Compared to males, OVX rats with or without estrogen licked less, suggesting that female rats are less sensitive to lower concentrations of sucrose. Estrogen appeared to play, at most, a small role in mediating taste responses to specific concentrations of sucrose in these testing procedures. Nonetheless, sex differences in taste responses were clear, and it seems likely that such differences underlie, in part, observed differences in ingestion.
The hypothalamo-neurohypophyseal system (HNS) is the specialised brain neurosecretory apparatus responsible for the production of a peptide hormone, vasopressin, that maintains water balance by promoting water conservation at the level of the kidney. Dehydration evokes a massive increase in the regulated release of hormone from the HNS, and this is accompanied by a plethora of changes in morphology, electrical properties and biosynthetic and secretory activity, all of which are thought to facilitate hormone production and delivery, and hence the survival of the organism. We have adopted a functional genomic strategy to understand the activity dependent plasticity of the HNS in terms of the co-ordinated action of cellular and genetic networks. Firstly, using microarray gene-profiling technologies, we are elucidating which genes are expressed in the HNS, and how the pattern of expression changes following physiological challenge. The next step is to use transgenic rats to probe the functions of these genes in the context of the physiological integrity of the whole organism.
In the 1960s, it was shown for the first time that enriched housing enhances functional recovery after brain damage. During the 1970s and 1980s, many findings similar to this initial one have been reported, enlarging greatly its generality. Over the last 13 years, many different kinds of brain damage were modelled in animals or even directly studied in humans. Overall, these recent studies corroborated earlier findings, although occasional exceptions were reported. Other critical data, obtained mainly in intact animals, showed that enriched housing increases neurogenesis in the adult hippocampus. Recent evidence that this neurogenesis is involved in hippocampal-dependent learning supports the original interpretation of the enrichment effects as being the result of an accumulation of informal learning experiences (e.g., [. Heredity, environment, brain biochemistry, and learning. In: Current Trends in Psychological Theory. University of Pittsburgh Press, Pittsburgh, pp. 87-110;. Brain changes in response to experience. Sci. Am. 226, 22-29]). Other components of enriched environment, such as physical exercise, may have additive effects with those of training. The comparison of the relative effectiveness of enriched experience, of physical exercise and of training on structural and/or functional assessments of recovery, shows that training/learning is generally more effective than physical exercise and that enriched experience is a more potent therapy than either of these two other treatments. The combination of enriched experience with some other neurosurgical and/or neuropharmacological treatments may further improve its therapeutic effectiveness. Finally, other recent reports emphasize that the treatment parameters may be changed in order to approximate clinical/rehabilitation conditions and, nevertheless, remain effective.
Intrinsic primary afferent neurons (IPANs) of the enteric nervous system are quite different from all other peripheral neurons. The IPANs are transducers of physiological stimuli, including movement of the villi or distortion of the mucosa, contraction of intestinal muscle and changes in the chemistry of the contents of the gut lumen. They are the first neurons in intrinsic reflexes that influence the patterns of motility, secretion of fluid across the mucosal epithelium and local blood flow in the small and large intestines. In the guinea pig small intestine, where they have been characterized in detail, IPANs have Dogiel type II morphology, that is they are large round or oval neurons with multiple processes, some of which end close to the luminal surface of the intestine, and some of which form synapses with enteric interneurons, motor neurons and with other IPANs. The IPANs have well-defined ionic currents through which their excitability, and their functions in enteric nerve circuits, is determined. These include voltage-gated Na(+) and Ca(2+) currents, a long lasting calcium-activated K(+) current, and a hyperpolarization-activated cationic current. The IPANs exhibit long-term changes in their states of excitation that can be induced by extended periods of low frequency activity in synaptic inputs and by inflammatory mediators, either applied directly or released during an inflammatory challenge. The IPANs may be involved in pathological changes in enteric function following inflammation.
The cellular and the inter-connective complexity of the central nervous system (CNS) necessitate's analysis of functioning at both the system and single cell levels. Systems neuroscience has developed procedures that facilitate the analysis of multicellular systems including multielectrode arrays, dye tracings and lesioning assays, and at the single cell level there have been significant strides in assessing the physiology and morphology of individual cells. Until recently little progress had been made in understanding the molecular biology of single neuronal cells. This review will highlight the development of PCR and aRNA procedures for analysis of mRNA abundances in single cells. Also, other procedures for the analysis of protein abundances as well as the association of RNA with proteins will also be summarized. These procedures promise to provide experimental insights that will help unravel the functional mechanisms regulating the cellular components of the CNS.
Although chronic stress has been reported to induce deleterious effects on hippocampal structure and function, the possible existence of individual differences in the vulnerability to develop stress-induced cognitive alterations was hypothesized. This study was designed to evaluate (i) whether individual variability in behavioural reactivity to novelty could be related to a differential vulnerability to show spatial learning deficits after chronic stress in young adult rats, and (ii) to what extent, could individual differences in stress-induced cognitive alterations be related to alterations in specific neurobiological substrates. Four month-old Wistar male rats were classified according to their locomotor reactivity to a novel environment, as either low (LR) or highly (HR) reactive, and then either submitted to psychosocial stress for 21-days (consisting of the daily cohabitation of each young adult rat with a new middle-aged rat) or left undisturbed. The results showed that psychosocial stress induced a marked deficit in spatial learning in the water maze in HR, but not in LR, rats. Then, a second experiment investigated the possible differential expression of corticosteroid receptors (MR and GR) and cell adhesion molecules (NCAM and L1) in the hippocampus of HR and LR rats, both under basal conditions and after exposure to chronic social stress. Although chronic stress induced a reduction on the hippocampal expression of MRs and the NCAM-140 isoform, the levels of these molecules did not differ between stressed rats with and without spatial learning impairments; i.e., between HR- and LR-stressed rats, respectively. Nevertheless, it should be noted that the reduction of the hippocampal expression of NCAM-140 induced by psychosocial stress was particularly marked in HR stressed rats. However, the expression of GRs, NCAM-120 and NCAM-180 isoforms, and L1, was not affected by stress, regardless of the reactivity of the animals. Therefore, although we failed to find a neurobiological substrate that specifically correlated with the differential cognitive vulnerability to chronic stress shown by animals with a different novelty reactivity, this study confirms the hypothesis that rats differ in their susceptibility to display stress-induced impairments in hippocampus-dependent spatial learning tasks. In addition, it provides a model to further search for the neurobiological substrate(s) involved in the differential susceptibility to develop stress-induced cognitive impairments.



Most models of spelling assume that people rely on two procedures when engaging in spelling: a lexical look-up procedure that retrieves spellings in their entirety, and a nonlexical procedure that constructs spellings with a set of phoneme-grapheme rules. In the present research, we investigated whether larger sized subsyllabic relationships also play a role in spelling, and how they compare to small-sized phoneme-grapheme relationships. In addition, we investigated whether purely orthographic units can explain some of the variance typically attributed to the mapping between sound and spelling. To do this, we ran five spelling experiments, two using real words and three using nonwords. Results from the experiments showed that there were independent contributions of both phoneme-grapheme and larger sized subsyllabic sound-spelling relationships, although the effect of phoneme-grapheme-sized relationships was always stronger and more reliable than larger sized subsyllabic sound-spelling relationships. Purely orthographic effects were also shown to affect word spelling, but no significant effects were found with nonword spelling. Together, the results support the hypothesis that a major constraint on spelling comes from phoneme-grapheme-sized relationships.
Neuroimaging techniques are increasingly being applied to the study of attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). This review focuses on magnetic resonance imaging studies of the brain anatomy of ADHD, which have now been conducted for over a decade. Most studies have focused on frontal striatal regions and have tended to find smaller volumes in children with ADHD relative to controls. Recently published analyses with the largest sample of patients and controls found that ADHD is associated with a statistically significant global reduction in brain volume in both boys and girls of 3 4%, which is confirmed in a meta analysis of this global measure. Specific regional differences have been found in many studies in the basal ganglia with the most prominent differences being found in the cerebellum.

The eye is a highly specialized structure that gathers and converts light information into neuronal signals. These signals are relayed along axons of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) to visual centers in the brain for processing. In this review, we discuss the pathfinding tasks RGC axons face during development and the molecular mechanisms known to be involved. The data at hand support the presence of multiple axon guidance mechanisms concentrically organized around the optic nerve head, each of which appears to involve both growth-promoting and growth-inhibitory guidance molecules. Together, these strategies ensure proper optic nerve formation and establish the anatomical pathway for faithful transmission of information between the retina and the brain.



In the past few years research on stem cells has exploded as a tool to develop potential therapies to treat incurable neurodegenerative diseases. Stem cell transplantation has been effective in several animal models, but the underlying restorative mechanisms are still unknown. Several events such as cell fusion, neurotrophic factor release, endogenous stem cell proliferation, and transdifferentiation (adult cell acquisition of new unexpected identities) may explain therapeutic success, in addition to replacement of lost cells. This issue needs to be clarified further to maximize the potential for effective therapies. Preliminary stem transplantation trials have already been performed for some neurodegenerative diseases. There is no effective pharmacological treatment for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, but recent preliminary data both in experimental and clinical settings have targeted it as an ideal candidate disease for the development of stem cell therapy in humans. This review summarizes recent advances gained in stem cell research applied to neurodegenerative diseases with a special emphasis to the criticisms put forward.










Catechol-o-methyltransferase (COMT) and proline dehydrogenase (PRODH) may both be susceptibility genes for schizophrenia. As part of the evaluation of their roles in psychosis, we used reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction to measure COMT and PRODH mRNAs in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex in schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, major depression, and normal controls (n = 15 subjects in each group). We also genotyped two common COMT polymorphisms (-287A/G and 158Val/Met) which might affect its expression. Neither COMT nor PRODH mRNA abundance differed between diagnostic groups, nor when controls were compared with all psychotic patients. COMT mRNA levels were unrelated to COMT genotypes. We conclude that any involvement of COMT and PRODH genes in schizophrenia is not accompanied by significant alterations in their overall mRNA expression, at least in dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. As COMT and PRODH are both located on chromosome 22q11, the results also argue against the hypothesis that schizophrenia is associated with a decrease in expression of all 22q11 genes, as had been suggested by the high prevalence of psychosis in people with hemizygous 22q11 deletions.
Arterial spin labeling is a magnetic resonance method for the measurement of cerebral blood flow. In its simplest form, the perfusion contrast in the images gathered by this technique comes from the subtraction of two successively acquired images: one with, and one without, proximal labeling of arterial water spins after a small delay time. Over the last decade, the method has moved from the experimental laboratory to the clinical environment. Furthermore, numerous improvements, ranging from new pulse sequence implementations to extensive theoretical studies, have broadened its reach and extended its potential applications. In this review, the multiple facets of this powerful yet difficult technique are discussed. Different implementations are compared, the theoretical background is summarized, and potential applications of various implementations in research as well as in the daily clinical routine are proposed. Finally, a summary of the new developments and emerging techniques in this field is provided.
Cerebral perfusion may be visualized by the dynamic imaging of an intravenously injected bolus (a few milliliters) of clinically approved gadolinium-containing contrast media. During its passage through the vasculature of the brain, the contrast agent induces magnetic field disturbances, which can be seen as signal loss on appropriately weighted dynamic MRI. This article deals with the quantitative analysis of such signal changes, first in terms of tracer concentration and then, via the mathematical approach of deconvolution, in terms of tissue microvascular physiology, culminating in quantitative estimates on a pixel-by-pixel basis of physiologic parameters, such as cerebral blood volume, mean transit time, and cerebral blood flow.
We have proposed that since the type II pyrethroids deltamethrin and cypermethrin, but not the type I pyrethroid cismethrin act on chloride channels, this could contribute to the bimodal nature of pyrethroid poisoning syndromes. We now examine a wider range of pyrethroid structures on the activity of these calcium-independent voltage-gated maxi-chloride channels. Excised inside-out membrane patches from differentiated mouse neuroblastoma cells were used, and mean channel open probabilities calculated. For single dosing at 10 microM, bioallethrin, beta-cyfluthrin, cypermethrin, deltamethrin, and fenpropathrin were all found to significantly decrease open channel probability (p &lt; 0.05). Bifenthrin, bioresmethrin, cispermethrin, cisresmethrin, cyfluthrin isomers 2 and 4, lambda-cyhalothrin, esfenvalerate, and tefluthrin, did not significantly alter open channel probability (p &gt; 0.05). Since the type II pyrethroids, esfenvalerate, and lambda-cyhalothrin were ineffective, we must conclude that actions at the chloride ion channel target cannot in themselves account for the differences between the two types of poisoning syndrome. Sequential dosing with type II pyrethroids caused no further chloride ion channel closure. The type I pyrethroid cisresmethrin did however prevent a subsequent effect by the mixed type pyrethroid fenpropathrin. In contrast, the type I pyrethroid cispermethrin did not prevent a subsequent effect due to the type II pyrethroid deltamethrin. The difference in effect may be the result of differences in potency, as deltamethrin had a greater effect than fenpropathrin. It therefore appears clear that in some combinations the type I and type II pyrethroids can compete and may bind to the same chloride channel target site.
Epidemiological and laboratory studies indicate that polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and methyl mercury (MeHg) may have additive or interactive adverse effects on nervous system function. Prior studies have shown that high doses of MeHg target the cerebellum and impair balance and coordination, but the effects of PCBs on cerebellar function were unknown. In addition, the combined effects of PCBs and MeHg on cerebellar function have not been studied previously. Therefore, we investigated the effects of developmental exposure to PCBs, MeHg, or PCBs + MeHg on three motor tasks that involve cerebellar functions. Female Long-Evans rats were exposed to MeHg (0.5 ppm in drinking water), PCBs (6-mg/kg/d Aroclor 1254), PCBs + MeHg, or vehicle only beginning 4 weeks prior to breeding, through pregnancy, and continuing through postnatal day (PND) 16. Starting at approximately PND 60, one male and one female from each litter were tested on three motor tasks that involve cerebellar function. PCB + MeHg-exposed rats were impaired relative to the controls on a task requiring them to traverse a rotating rod. Rats exposed to PCBs alone were also somewhat impaired relative to the controls, whereas MeHg-exposed rats were not significantly different from the controls. There were no statistically significant deficits related to PCB or MeHg exposure on a vertical rope-climbing test or a parallel bar test. Our results demonstrate that the possibility of additive neurotoxic effects of PCBs and MeHg needs to be seriously considered.
The behaviors involved in complex human tool use cut across boundaries traditionally drawn between social, cognitive, perceptual and motor processes. Longstanding neuropsychological evidence suggests a distinction between brain systems responsible for representing: (1) semantic knowledge about familiar tools and their uses, and (2) the acquired skills necessary for performing these actions. Contemporary findings in functional neuroimaging support and refine this distinction by revealing the distributed neural systems that support these processes and the conditions under which they interact. Together, these findings indicate that behaviors associated with complex tool use arise from functionally specialized networks involving temporal, parietal and frontal areas within the left cerebral hemisphere.
Animals often aid others without gaining any immediate benefits. Although these acts seem to reduce the donor's fitness, they are only apparently altruistic. Donors typically help because they or their kin receive future benefits or avoid costly punishment. Reciprocal altruism--alternating the roles of donor and recipient--has been a well-studied form of cooperation among non-kin because of its intuitive appeal in explaining human cooperation. Despite immense theoretical interest, little empirical evidence substantiates the biological importance of reciprocal altruism in non-human animals. We propose that this is because psychological mechanisms constrain its application in cooperative contexts. In particular, we contend that cognitive limitations such as temporal discounting, numerical discrimination and memory make reciprocity difficult for animals.
Traditionally, knockout experiments are performed in ES cells derived from the 129 mouse strain, followed by backcrossing with the more robust C57BL/6 strain. C57BL/6-derived ES cells have only occasionally been used in this process. We compared C57BL/6- with 129-derived ES cells directly and reviewed the literature. We found that, although some steps are less efficient, the advantages of C57BL/6 mice more than compensate for these drawbacks.
Baker et al. have recently studied the potential role of cocaine-induced alterations in accumbens cystine-glutamate transporter activity (which controls basal extracellular glutamate levels) during cocaine-induced relapse to drug seeking in rats. Their data provide new evidence that neuroadaptations induced by repeated exposure to cocaine and subsequent withdrawal can play a causal role in drug relapse. These data also suggest the cystine-glutamate transporter as a novel target for medication that could prevent cocaine relapse.
In a recent paper, Shawn Green and Daphne Bavelier show that playing an action video game markedly improved subjects performance on a range of visual skills related to detecting objects in briefly flashed displays. This is noteworthy as previous studies on perceptual learning, which have commonly focused on well-controlled and rather abstract tasks, found little transfer of learning to novel stimuli, let alone to different tasks. The data suggest that video game playing modifies visual processing on different levels: some effects are compatible with increased attentional resources, whereas others point to changes in preattentive processing.
Hebbian synaptic learning requires co-activation of presynaptic and postsynaptic neurons. However, under some conditions, information regarding the postsynaptic action potential, carried by backpropagating action potentials, can be strongly degraded before it reaches the distal exhibit Hebbian long-term potentiation (LTP)? Recent results show that LTP can indeed occur at synapses on distal dendrites of hippocamal CA1 neurons, even in the absence of a postsynaptic somatic spike. Instead. local dendritic spikes contribute to the depolarization required to induce LTP. Here, a dendritically constrained synaptic learning rule is proposed, which suggests that nearby synapses can encode temporally contiguous events.
How synapses change their strength in response to impinging neural activity is a fundamental issue for understanding how the brain molds its circuitry in response to behavioral experience. Although a growing number of studies reveal the involvement of postsynaptic changes contributing to synaptic plasticity in brain circuits, the involvement of presynaptic factors has been implied by several studies. Most recently, several works point to the mechanism of vesicle fusion as a new possible locus for the modification of presynaptic synaptic strength. However, it is not yet clear to what extent such changes affect the simplest form of information transfer in the brain--the transmission of a single action potential.
Exocytotic release of the excitatory neurotransmitter glutamate depends on transport of this amino acid into synaptic vesicles. Recent work has identified a distinct family of proteins responsible for vesicular glutamate transport (VGLUTs) that show no sequence similarity to the other two families of vesicular neurotransmitter transporters. The distribution of VGLUT1 and VGLUT2 accounts for the ability of most established excitatory neurons to release glutamate by exocytosis. Surprisingly, they show a striking complementary pattern of expression in adult brain that might reflect differences in membrane trafficking. By contrast, VGLUT3 is expressed by many cells traditionally considered to release a different classical transmitter, suggesting novel roles for glutamate as an extracellular signal. VGLUT3 also differs from VGLUT1 and VGLUT2 in its subcellular location, with somatodendritic as well as axonal expression.
Ordinary vision is considered a binding success: all the pieces and aspects of an image are bound together, despite being processed by many different neurons in several different cortical areas. How this is accomplished is a key problem in visual neuroscience. The study of visual binding might be facilitated if we had ways to induce binding failures. A particularly interesting failure would involve a loss of the physical integrity of the image. Here, we identify conditions that induce such perceptual failures (e.g. the melting together of equiluminant colored images and the fragmentation of retinally stabilized images) and we suggest that these should studied using electrophysiological measures of binding.
There is considerable interest in developing new therapies that are based on compounds that modulate the endocannabinoid system to treat several disease states (e.g.pain, neurodegeneration and cancer). However, recent evidence from studies in experimental animals has suggested that three clinically used drugs, the anaesthetic agent propofol and the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs indomethacin and flurbiprofen (when given spinally), activate cannabinoid receptors as an important part of their actions. In this article, the findings of these studies are summarized and possible spectra of actions of these drugs is discussed.
As the number of cases of Alzheimer's disease (AD) rises in all developed countries, the unmet medical need for disease-modifying pharmacotherapy continues to grow. Much of AD research has been focused on the amyloid cascade hypothesis, which states that amyloid-beta-42 (A beta 42), a proteolytic derivative of the large transmembrane protein amyloid precursor protein (APP), plays an early and crucial role in all cases of AD. Consequently, blocking the production of A beta 42 by specific inhibition of the key proteases required for A beta 42 generation is a major focus of research into AD therapy. The identification of beta-secretase, the aspartic protease that generates the N-terminus of A beta 42, has triggered a race to develop drug-like inhibitors of this enzyme, which has become one of the major AD targets. Although the biology of beta-secretase holds great promise, it will be challenging to generate drug-like inhibitors of this unusual enzyme.
It has been shown that a moving visual pattern can influence the perceived position of outlying, briefly flashed objects. Using a rotating bar as an inducing stimulus we observed a shift, in the direction of motion, of the perceived position of small bars flashed together on either side of the moving bar. The greatest shift occurred when the 13 ms flashes were presented 60 ms before the rotating bar came closest to their locations. By varying rotation speed we showed that the peak effect was determined by the temporal rather than the spatial interval. The motion induced shift could be attenuated by introducing background flickering dots. The perceived shift decreased with distance from motion when the eccentricity of the flashes was kept constant. We conclude that the shift reflects feedback to primary visual cortex from motion selective cells in extrastriate cortex with receptive fields that overlap the retinal location of the flash.
Texture segregation has long been attributed to changes in the distribution of elementary features across the visual field [Nature 290 (12) (1981) 91; Biol. Cybernet. 54 (1986) 245]. The study of orientation, a conspicuous feature, has led to models of orientation-based texture segmentation (OBTS) that depend on the magnitude of one or two orientation gradients [Vis. Res. 31 (4) (1991) 679; Vis. Res. 31 (6) (1991) 1073] and influenced further by the relative configuration between the orientation textons and the global orientation edge [Percept. Psychophys. 52 (4) (1992) 255; Vis. Res. 35 (20) (1995) 2863]. Here we show that these models are at best partial and that the notion of orientation gradient has been incompletely used in the study of OBTS. To do so, we first study the behavior of orientation in orientation-defined texture patches. Geometrical analysis identifies two texture curvatures and reveals the incompleteness of previous stimuli. Psychophysical experimentation then demonstrates that segmentation is strongly affected by discontinuities in these curvatures. Importantly, we show that this sensitivity to curvature is independent of the orientation gradients and inconsistent with the simple configural considerations proposed in the past.
The flash-lag effect occurs when a flash abreast of a smoothly moving object is perceived to spatially lag the moving object. The postdiction accounts of this effect assume either that the flash &quot;resets&quot; motion detectors [Science 287 (2000) 2036], or that position information is not computed for moving objects until it is needed [Trends in the Neurosciences 25 (2002) 293], the latter view having also been proposed by Brenner and Smeets [Vision Research 40 (2000) 1645]. According to these accounts, events occurring before the flash should not change the magnitude of the flash-lag effect. In our experiment, pre-exposure of the moving object as a stationary stimulus, for as little as 50 ms before the flash occurred, significantly reduced the flash-lag effect.
Eating disorders were first described in black females in South Africa in 1995. A subsequent community based study of eating attitudes amongst adolescent females in an urban setting suggested that there would be increasing numbers of sufferers from within the black community. The current study sought to extend these findings using a larger, more representative urban sample. The results support those of the preliminary study. The underlying basis for the emerging phenomenon is discussed.



