The transcription factor cAMP-responsive element binding protein (CREB) has been implicated in synaptic plasticity and memory. The purpose of the present study was to characterize alterations in the cAMP/protein kinase A (PKA)/CREB system after sustained cerebral ischemia. Sustained cerebral ischemia was induced by injection of 900 microspheres (48 microm in diameter) into the right (ipsilateral) hemisphere of rats. Alterations in the CREB, PKA, and cAMP levels in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus were examined up to 7 days after microsphere embolism. Immunoblotting analysis showed a decrease in the immunoreactivity of phosphorylated CREB (pCREB) in the ipsilateral hemisphere on the third day after microsphere embolism, whereas that of the total CREB was not altered. An electrophoretic gel mobility shift assay showed a decrease in the cAMP response element (CRE)-DNA binding activity of CREB in the ischemic region on the third day after the microsphere embolism. Cytosolic PKA C beta in the ipsilateral hemisphere was selectively decreased on the first day after the microsphere embolism, whereas the levels of another catalytic subunit, C alpha, and a regulatory subunit, RII alpha, were not altered. Immunoreactivity of the PKA catalytic subunit C alpha in the nucleus of the ipsilateral hemisphere was decreased on the third day after the embolism. The decreases in the pCREB, CRE-DNA binding activity, and PKA C alpha and C beta levels lasted at least up to 7 days after the operation. A decrease in the cAMP content was also seen in the ipsilateral hemisphere throughout the experiment. Furthermore, microsphere embolized rats showed prolongation of the escape latency in the water maze task determined on the seventh to ninth day after the operation. Our results suggest that sustained cerebral ischemia may impair the phosphorylation and CRE-DNA binding activity of CREB and that these effects may be one of the possible causes for learning and memory dysfunction.
Calcium influx through voltage-gated calcium channels governs important aspects of CNS development. Multiple alternative splicings of the pore-forming alpha(1) subunits have been evidenced in adult brain but little information about their expression during ontogenesis is presently available. The aim of this study was to focus on the expression of three rat voltage-gated calcium channel alpha(1A) splice variants (alpha(1A-a), alpha(1A-b) and alpha(1A-EFe)) during brain ontogenesis in vivo. Using a reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction strategy, we found that the three isoforms have different timings of development throughout the brain: alpha(1A-b) is expressed from embryonic to the adult stage, alpha(1A--EFe) is restricted to the embryonic period whereas alpha(1A-a) is expressed only postnatally. In situ hybridization indicated that alpha(1A-a) and alpha(1A-b) isoforms develop with different regional and cellular patterns. In hippocampus and cerebellum, alpha(1A-b) represented the predominant isoform at all developmental stages. Taken together, these data reveal that alternative RNA splicing may modulate the alpha(1A) calcium channel properties during development.
Neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors are members of the ligand-gated ion channel superfamily composed of alpha and beta subunits with specific structural, functional and pharmacological properties. In this study we have used immunohistochemistry to investigate the presence of nicotinic acetylcholine receptor subunits in human cerebellum. Tissue was obtained at autopsy from eight adult individuals (aged 36-56 years). Histological sections were prepared from formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded material. alpha 3, alpha 4, alpha 6, alpha 7, beta 2, and beta 4 subunits were present in this brain area associated with both neuronal and non-neuronal cell types. Most Purkinje cells were immunoreactive for all the above subunits, but most strongly for alpha 4 and alpha 7. A proportion of granule cell somata were immunoreactive for all subunits except alpha 3. Punctate immunoreactivity in Purkinje cell and granule cell layers was evident with antibodies against alpha 3, alpha 4, alpha 6, and alpha 7 in parallel with synaptophysin immunoreactivity, suggesting the presence of these subunits on nerve terminals in the human cerebellum. All subunits were present in the dentate nucleus associated with neurones and cell processes. Strong immunoreactivity of neuropil in both the molecular and granule cell layers and within the dentate nucleus was noted with alpha 4, alpha 7 and beta 4 subunits. Astrocytes and astrocytic cell processes appeared to be immunoreactive for alpha 7 and cell processes observed in white matter, also possibly astrocytic, were immunoreactive for beta2. Immunoreactivity to all subunits was noted in association with blood vessels. We suggest that nicotinic acetylcholine receptor subunits may be involved in the modulation of cerebellar activity. Further investigations are warranted to evaluate the participation of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors in cerebellar pathology associated with both developmental and age-related disorders.
Although Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and motor neurone disease are distinct disorders, there could be a common neurodegenerative mechanism that characterises the death of selective neurone populations in each case. We propose that this mechanism could be an aberrantly activated, developmental process involving a non-classical, non-enzymatic action of acetylcholinesterase mediated via a short linear motif near the C-terminal end of the molecule. Since this motif has a highly conserved homology with part of the amyloid precursor protein, it may be particularly attractive as a target for novel therapeutic strategies in neurodegeneration.
Synaptic plasticity in the amygdala appears to be necessary for the generation of emotional memories. However, the molecular bases of this plasticity are not fully understood. Because the polysialylated form of the neural cell adhesion molecule (PSA-NCAM) has been implicated in memory consolidation in the hippocampus and temporal cortex, we have studied in detail the expression of this molecule in the adult rat amygdala with an antibody against PSA-NCAM. Our results demonstrate for the first time the presence of PSA-NCAM in the adult rat amygdala. Immunoreactive somata and processes are abundant in the amygdalo-hippocampal transition area, central nucleus, intra-amygdaloid bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, anterior and posterior cortical nuclei, periamygdaloid cortex and medial nucleus of the amygdala. In addition PSA-NCAM immunoreactive neuronal somata and processes exist in the lateral, basal and accessory basal nuclei, anterior amygdaloid area and amygdalo-striatal area. The presence of this molecule in areas that receive olfactory or vomeronasal input could reflect the intrinsic plasticity of these chemosensory systems. PSA-NCAM expression in the lateral amygdala could indicate its participation in the plastic events that lead to the generation of emotional memories such as those related to fear conditioning.
Alpha-synuclein is a presynaptic protein that normally participates in the homeostasis of synaptic vesicles. Missense mutations in its gene cause the protein to participate actively in the development of heritable forms of Parkinson's disease. Moreover, its metabolism is perturbed in all cases of Parkinson's disease where alpha-synuclein accumulates in a filamentous form in the Lewy body nerve cell lesion. Lewy bodies also develop in other common neurodegenerative disorders, like dementia with Lewy bodies and Lewy body variant of Alzheimer's disease. In the present study, we have studied the detailed distribution of alpha-, beta- and gamma-synuclein in the rat CNS. Alpha-synuclein was not observed in perikarya, but was distributed with high intensity in nerve terminals in the caudate and putamen and ventral pallidum, where beta-synuclein was much weaker and less densely distributed in the caudate and putamen. Gamma-synuclein was not found in the caudate and putamen. Alpha-synuclein was robustly distributed in the substantia nigra pars reticulata, but was very weak or virtually absent from the perikarya of the neurons in the pars compacta. In contrast, beta-synuclein was very weak or absent from the substantia nigra. gamma-Synuclein was absent from the terminals of substantia nigra pars reticulata, but sparsely distributed gamma-synuclein-containing neurons were detected in the substantia nigra pars compacta. In the brainstem, alpha-synuclein as well as gamma-synuclein were present in the locus coeruleus with high intensity, while beta-synuclein was very weak. In addition, alpha-synuclein was intense in the vagus nucleus, but weak in the oculomotor, facial, hypoglossal, accessory and ambiguous nuclei, where beta-synuclein was very intensely present. Furthermore, gamma-synuclein was localized in the terminals and in cell bodies of the Edinger-Westphal nucleus, the red nucleus, locus coeruleus, and most cranial nerve-related nuclei. In the spinal cord, alpha- and gamma-synucleins were intensely present in laminae I and II and in the preganglionic sympathetic nuclei, whereas beta-synuclein was very weak. These results indicate that alpha-synuclein is abundant in central catecholaminergic regions. Beta-synuclein is more localized in the somatic cholinergic components, while it is particularly weak or absent from catecholaminergic neurons. Gamma-synuclein appears to be present in both cholinergic and catecholaminergic regions, but very weak in the forebrain.
Neuronal calcium sensor-1 (NCS-1) is a member of the EF-hand calcium-binding protein superfamily, which is considered to modulate synaptic transmission and plasticity. In this work, we first examined the distribution patterns of NCS-1 in the hippocampus and cerebellum. The intense NCS-1-immunoreactive (IR) elements in the hippocampus were restricted to dendritic layers, while those in the cerebellum occurred in both dendritic and cellular layers. Then, we examined the exact localization of NCS-1 using immunofluorescent double labeling for NCS-1 and synaptophysin, a marker of presynaptic terminals. In the hippocampus, the mossy fiber systems (terminals and bundles) exhibited intense NCS-1 immunoreactivity. On the other hand, the presumed principal cell dendrites were also NCS-1-IR in the stratum lacunosum-moleculare of Ammon's horn and molecular layer of the dentate gyrus, where NCS-1-IR elements and synaptophysin-IR presynaptic terminals showed characteristic complementary distribution patterns. In the cerebellum, some of the basket cell axon terminals surrounding the somata of Purkinje cells exhibited NCS-1 immunoreactivity, while the pinceau showed consistent labeling for NCS-1. Higher magnification observations revealed that the NCS-1-IR presumed granule cell dendrites and synaptophysin-IR mossy fiber terminals in the glomeruli of the cerebellum showed characteristic complementary distribution patterns. Furthermore, we estimated quantitatively the relative amount of NCS-1 in the presynaptic terminals in individual layers, and confirmed that the mossy fiber terminals in the hippocampus contained comparatively high amounts of NCS-1. These results showed the diverse localization of NCS-1 in pre- and/or postsynaptic elements of the hippocampus and cerebellum, and suggest potential roles in specific synaptic transmission.
Activation of cardiac sympathetic afferents elicits pain and excitatory cardiovascular reflexes including acute hypertension and tachyarrhythmias. Our previous studies have shown that specific regions in the medulla, such as the nucleus of solitary tract and ventrolateral medulla, are involved in central regulation of cardiac sympathoexcitatory reflexes. However, the contributions of supramedullary nuclei to these reflexes have not been characterized. In the present study, we located activated neurons in the pons and midbrain induced by inputs from cardiac sympathetic afferents by detecting their c-Fos immunoreactivity. In anesthetized cats with bilateral carotid denervation and cervical vagotomy, epicardial application of bradykinin (1-10 microg, in 0.1 ml; n=7) was performed on the anterior surface of the left ventricle six times, every 20 min. Repetitive application of bradykinin caused consistent excitatory cardiovascular reflexes characterized by increases in blood pressure and heart rate. No responses were evoked by the vehicle for bradykinin (0.9% saline, n=7). Compared to control cats, c-Fos immunoreactive cells were significantly increased (P&lt;0.05) in the rostral pons, caudal and intermediate midbrain in the bradykinin-treated cats. The specific areas activated include the parabrachial nucleus, Klliker-Fuse nucleus, locus coeruleus, dorsal nucleus of raphe, and dorsal, lateral and ventrolateral periaqueductal gray. From these results we suggest that cardiovascular-related regions in the pons and midbrain form part of a long loop in central integration of cardiac sympathoexcitatory reflexes.
The Edinger-Westphal nucleus is the primary source of urocortin in rodent brain. Mapping of inducible transcription factors has shown that the Edinger-Westphal nucleus is preferentially sensitive to ethanol self-administration. In the present study we have immunohistochemically compared expression of urocortin and c-Fos in naive and ethanol-treated C57BL/6J and DBA/2J mouse inbred strains. We found that C57BL/6J mice possess significantly higher numbers of urocortin-expressing cells in the Edinger-Westphal compared to DBA/2J mice. Subsequent histological analysis confirmed a lower number of large neurons in the DBA/2J Edinger-Westphal nucleus. Surprisingly, despite the differences in structure, no strain differences were observed in the number of c-Fos-containing cells after acute (0.6-4.8 g/kg, i.p.) and repeated (2.4 g/kg, 14 days, one injection/day) administration of ethanol. Double-label immunohistochemistry showed that ethanol-induced c-Fos expression is present in different sets of Edinger-Westphal cells between the strains. Specifically, expression of c-Fos in C57BL/6J mice is preferentially induced in urocortin cells, while c-Fos in DBA/2J mice occurs in a mixed population of cells. Behavioral analysis of the B6D2 F2 intercross, a heterogeneous mouse strain, showed that the number of urocortin cells is positively correlated with basal temperatures and ethanol-induced hypothermia. Involvement of the Edinger-Westphal in alcohol-induced hypothermia is further confirmed by analysis of urocortin cells in the HOT/COLD selected lines. These results provide evidence that C57BL/6J and DBA/2J mice have structural differences in the Edinger-Westphal that can result in activation of different populations of neurons upon alcohol intoxication contributing to differential thermoregulation between these inbred strains.
Previous studies from our group have demonstrated that chronic aluminum exposure from parturition throughout life impairs both long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD) of the excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP) slope and reduces the population spike (PS) amplitude in the rat dentate gyrus in vivo. The present study sought to extend these findings by evaluating the developmental periods critical for aluminum-induced impairment of synaptic plasticity. Rats were exposed to aluminum (gestational, lactational and postlactational) through drinking 0.3% aluminum chloride in water over different developmental intervals: (1) prenatal exposure; (2) beginning from birth and terminating at weaning; (3) beginning at weaning throughout life; (4) beginning at birth and continuing throughout life. As adults (postnatal day 80-100), field potentials were measured in the dentate gyrus of hippocampus in response to stimulation applied to the lateral perforant path. The results showed: (1) Prenatal aluminum exposure had no effect on the magnitude of LTP as measured by the EPSP slope and LTD as measured for the PS amplitude, while it had a small effect on the magnitude of LTP as measured for the PS amplitude and LTD as measured by the EPSP slope. (2) Lactational, postlactational and throughout life exposure to aluminum impaired both LTP and LTD of the EPSP slope and PS amplitude, except that LTD of PS amplitude was not significantly changed in animals postlactationally exposed. (3) Aluminum exposure from parturition throughout life caused the greatest impairment of the range of synaptic plasticity, while prenatal aluminum exposure caused the least. From these results we conclude that the lactational period was the most susceptible to aluminum-induced impairment of synaptic plasticity and that chronic aluminum exposure from parturition throughout life is extremely disruptive to synaptic plasticity and should be avoided.
Twenty-one days of chronic restraint stress impairs male rat performance on the radial arm maze [Luine et al. (1994) Brain Res. 639, 167-170], but enhances female rat performance [Bowman et al. (2001) Brain Res. 904, 279-289]. To assess possible ovarian hormone mechanisms underlying this sexually dimorphic response to stress, we examined chronic stress effects in ovariectomized rats. Ovariectomized rats received Silastic capsule implants containing cholesterol or estradiol and were assigned to a daily restraint stress (21 days, 6 h/day) or non-stress group. Following the stress period, subjects were tested for open field activity and radial arm maze performance. Stress and estradiol treatment affected open field activity. All stressed animals, with or without estradiol treatment, made fewer total outer sector crossings. In contrast, estradiol-treated animals, with or without stress, made more inner sector visits, an indication that estradiol decreased anxious behavior on the open field across time. As measured by the total number of visits required to complete the task, stress did not affect radial arm maze performance in ovariectomized rats, but estradiol-treated animals, with or without stress, performed better than non-treated animals on the radial arm maze. Stressed subjects receiving estradiol showed the best radial arm maze performance. Following killing, tissue samples were obtained from various brain regions known to contribute to learning and memory, and monoamine and metabolite levels were measured. Several changes were observed in response to both stress and estradiol. Most noteworthy, stress treatment decreased homovanillic acid levels in the prefrontal cortex, an effect not previously observed in stressed intact females. Estradiol treatment increased norepinephrine levels in CA3 region of the hippocampus, mitigating stress-dependent changes. Both stress and estradiol decreased dentate gyrus levels of 5-hydroxyindole acetic acid. In summary, the current study provides novel information showing that estradiol alters behavioral and neurochemical responses to stress in ovariectomized rats. Estradiol treatment decreased anxious behavior on the open field and stressed animals receiving estradiol had enhanced radial arm maze performance. In relation to interactions between stress and estradiol on cognition and anxiety, changes in the prefrontal cortex dopaminergic system, dentate gyrus serotonergic system, and norepinephrine levels in the CA3 region appear important. Results show that estradiol may moderate stress effects on cognition and anxiety through both organizational and activation effects.
In humans, chronic intermittent and uncontrollable stress during adolescence is viewed as a key factor for vulnerability to drug abuse and development of psychopathologies later in life. Less is known about the long-term effects of chronic stress in animals during the juvenile period. Although there is evidence of cross sensitization during prenatal period and adulthood between chronic stress and amphetamine-induced behavioral sensitization in the rat, no studies have been conducted on cross sensitization between chronic variable stress in adolescence and behavioral sensitization to amphetamine. To address this question, at the onset of adolescence (28 days) male rats were subjected to 28 days of intermittent non-habituating social stress (isolation, novel environment, crowding, litter-shifting, subordination), or physical stress (restraint, swim, cold, ether, noise), or were handled as controls. Twenty-four hours after the last stressor or handling, all groups were exposed to a novel environment for 1 h, after which they underwent a regimen of behavioral sensitization to amphetamine. Our results showed that socially stressed rats have low locomotor activity in the novel environment, when compared to the control and physical groups who were identical in the same test. Even though socially stressed rats had lower locomotor activity in response to amphetamine injections, there were no significant differences during the training phase between the three groups at this dose of amphetamine. However, when tested for behavioral sensitization to amphetamine control and physically stressed rats showed a robust sensitization, socially stressed rats were significantly inhibited. We conclude that our chronic variable social stress protocol during adolescence inhibits behavioral sensitization to amphetamine during adulthood.
In the rat pineal gland, prominent expression of serine protease inhibitor 3 (SPI-3) mRNA is seen after systemic injection of lipopolysaccharide. The up-regulation of SPI-3 mRNA expression is also confirmed by northern blotting. Most SPI-3 mRNA-positive cells simultaneously express synaptophysin, a marker for pinealocytes, but not glial fibrillary acidic protein, a marker for astrocytes. This indicates that SPI-3 mRNA-positive cells are pinealocytes. Almost all SPI-3 mRNA-positive cells also showed translocation of the signal transducers and activators of transcription 3 (STAT3) into nuclei after lipopolysaccharide injection. These data support previous in vitro results that SPI-3 expression is induced in a STAT3-mediated manner. In addition, the expression of ciliary neurotrophic factor receptor (CNTFR) and leukemia inhibitory factor receptor (LIFR) mRNAs, but not of interleukin 6 receptor mRNA, was up-regulated after systemic lipopolysaccharide treatment. Because these receptors are upstream of STAT3, the present results suggest that cytokines such as LIF and/or CNTF induce SPI-3 expression via STAT3 in the pineal gland in response to inflammatory stimulus. We conclude that although the functional consequences of SPI-3 in the pineal gland during systemic inflammation are unknown, SPI-3 may have a crucial role in preventing some degenerative proteolysis induced by inflammatory stimuli.
Cerebral processing of first pain, associated with A delta-fibers, has been studied intensively, but the cerebral processing associated with unmyelinated C-fibers, relating to second pain, remains to be investigated. This is the first study to clarify the primary cortical processing of second pain by magnetoencephalography, through the selective activation of C-fibers, by the stimulation of a tiny area of skin with a CO2 laser. In the hemisphere contralateral to the side stimulated, a one-source generator in the upper bank of the Sylvian fissure (secondary somatosensory cortex, SII) or two-source generators in SII and the hand area of the primary somatosensory cortex (SI) were the optimal configurations for the first component 1M. The onset and peak latency of the two sources in SI and SII were not significantly different. In the hemisphere ipsilateral to the stimulation, only one source was estimated in SII, and its peak latency was significantly (approximately 18 ms on average) longer than that of the SII source in the contralateral hemisphere. From our findings we suggest that parallel activation of SI and SII contralateral to the stimulation represents the first step in the cortical processing of C-fiber-related activities, probably related to second pain.
Cerebellar granule cells constitute the largest neurone population of the brain. Their axons run as parallel fibres along the coronal axis, and the one-dimensional spread of excitation that is expected to result from this arrangement is a key assumption of theories of cerebellar function. In many studies using various techniques, however, it was not possible to evoke such a beam-like propagation of excitation with natural stimuli. We recorded, in Crus I and II of anaesthetised rats, pairs of Golgi cells aligned along the parallel fibre axis and synchronising spontaneously. Each pair was subjected to two stimulation protocols: punctate and semi-continuous. Local punctate facial stimulation evoked distinct fast and late responses of variable strength and latency (fast: 4.0-10.2 ms; late: 13.6-22.7 ms). Semi-continuous stimulation with a brush increased the firing rate, and modified the precision and phase of synchronisation. Differences between a pair in response strength and phase to brush stimulation correlated strongly with the difference in latency to punctate stimulation. These observations were reproduced in a model of the granular layer. The stimulus activated a central patch of mossy fibres, and Golgi cells received short- and long-range excitation from mossy and parallel fibres, respectively. The strength and latency of the punctate response of a model Golgi cell were found to vary with its position, reflecting a systematic change in the contribution of mossy and parallel fibres to its excitation with distance from the activated patch. During brush stimulation, model Golgi cells inside the patch fired more precisely synchronised, whereas the other Golgi cells responded with a lag proportional to their distance from the patch, thereby reproducing the experimentally observed changes in synchronisation. Taken together with the previously reported large receptive fields of Golgi cells and with their spontaneous synchronisation, the variable, position-dependent latency of evoked Golgi cell responses indicates a beam-like spread of excitation along the parallel fibres in rat cerebellar cortex.
The present study investigated the effects of two cyclic GMP-specific phosphodiesterase enzyme type 5 inhibitors, sildenafil and vardenafil, on the memory performance in the object recognition task. Both compounds were given per orally (1, 3 and 10 mg/kg sildenafil; 0.1, 0.3, 1 and 3 mg/kg vardenafil) immediately after the exposure to two identical objects. The memory for the objects was tested 24 h later. Vehicle-treated rats spent equal times exploring a new and the familiar object demonstrating that they did not remember the familiar one. However, sildenafil improved the object discrimination performance of the rats with a high discrimination performance at a dose of 3 mg/kg. Rats treated with vardenafil also showed an improved object discrimination performance. Compared with sildenafil, vardenafil appeared to be even more potent in this respect since it already produced a high discrimination performance at a dose of 0.3 mg/kg. The effects of both compounds on cyclic GMP and cyclic AMP accumulation were studied in rat hippocampal slices incubated in vitro. Cyclic GMP levels were increased after incubation with the highest concentration of 100 microM vardenafil (together with 0.1 mM sodium nitroprusside), although no changes in cyclic GMP levels were detected after incubation with different concentrations of sildenafil. Both compounds had no effect on cyclic AMP levels. Additional cyclic GMP immunocytochemistry showed that incubation with vardenafil (in the presence of sodium nitroprusside) resulted in a concentration-dependent staining of cyclic GMP. Staining was predominantly found in neuronal fibres in the hippocampal CA2/CA3 region. It was already detected at a concentration of 0.1 microM vardenafil. Also positive fibres were detected after incubation with sildenafil but at a higher concentration of 10 microM. Taken together, these results suggest that inhibition of phosphodiesterase enzyme type 5 improves object recognition memory. This effect might be explained by increased levels of central cyclic GMP.
The purpose of the present study was to investigate the role of mu-opioid receptor in inflammatory hyperalgesia in intact and in spinalized animals and the interaction between mu-opioid and alpha2-adrenergic receptor in acute pain and inflammatory hyperalgesia. Behavioral responses to mechanical and heat stimuli were studied in mu-opioid receptor knockout mice and wildtype control mice. Thermal nociception was evaluated by measuring paw withdrawal latencies to radiant heat applied to the hindpaws. Mechanical nociception was measured by von Frey monofilament applications to the hindpaws. Intraplantar carrageenan-induced (1 mg/40 microl) mechanical and heat hyperalgesia were compared in micro-opioid knockout and wildtype mice. The effect of systemically administered alpha2-adrenergic receptor agonist dexmedetomidine (1-10 microg/kg) was evaluated on mechanical and thermal withdrawal responses under normal and inflammatory state in knockout and wildtype mice. The role of micro-opioid receptor in descending modulation of nociception was studied by assessing mechanical and heat withdrawal responses before and after mid-thoracic spinalization. Withdrawal responses to radiant heat and von Frey monofilaments were similar in mu-opioid knockout and wildtype mice before and after the carrageenan induced hindpaw inflammation. Also, antinociceptive effects of dexmedetomidine in thermal and mechanical nociceptive tests were similar before carrageenan induced hindpaw inflammation. However, the potency of dexmedetomidine was significantly reduced in carrageenan-induced mechanical hyperalgesia in mu-opioid knockout mice compared to the wildtype control mice. Thermal and mechanical withdrawal responses were similar between mu-opioid knockout and wildtype mice before and after mid-thoracic spinalization. Our observations indicate that the mu-opioid receptors do not play an important role in alpha2-adrenergic receptor agonist-mediated acute antinociception. In addition, micro-opioid receptors are not tonically involved in the modulation of inflammation-induced mechanical and thermal hyperalgesia, and the supraspinal control of spinal reflexes. However, in the presence of inflammation, mu-opioid receptors play an important role in the antihyperalgesic actions of an alpha2-adrenergic receptor agonist.
The possible role of acetylcholine as a modulator of neuronal differentiation has been tested using a neuroblastoma cell line (N18TG2), which does not synthesize any neurotransmitter. Acetylcholine synthesis has been activated in this line by transfection with a construct containing a choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) cDNA; ChAT-positive clones share a higher ability to grow fibers and an activation of synapsin I expression compared to the parental cells. Atropine, a muscarinic antagonist, abolishes the higher ability to grow fibers of ChAT-positive transfected clones, and the cholinergic agonist carbachol induces higher neurite outgrowth in the parental line. In transient transfections of ChAT-positive clones, the expression of a reporter gene under the control of synapsin I promoter is considerably reduced by atropine, while it is not modified by carbachol; in contrast, in the parental cells, which do not synthesize acetylcholine, the reporter gene expression is induced by carbachol and this effect is abolished by atropine. The data presented provide evidence for the existence of a direct modulation of fiber outgrowth and synapsin I expression by muscarinic receptor activation, which may be related to early growth response gene-1 (EGR-1) levels.
Sleep deprivation improves the mood of depressed patients, but the exact mechanism behind this effect is unclear. An enhancement of serotonergic neurotransmission has been suggested. In this study, we used in vivo microdialysis to monitor extracellular serotonin in the hippocampus and the frontal cortex of rats during an 8 h sleep deprivation period. These brain regions were selected since both have been implicated in depression. The behavioral state of the animal was continuously monitored by polygraphic recordings during the experiment. Sleep deprivation produced a gradual decline in extracellular serotonin levels, both in the hippocampus and in the frontal cortex. In order to investigate whether the reduction in serotonin was due to other factors than sleep deprivation, i.e. time of day effect, another experiment was performed. Here animals were allowed to sleep during most of the recording period. This experiment showed the expected changes in extracellular serotonin levels: consistently higher levels in the awake, non-sleep deprived animals compared to during sleep, but no time of day effect. The reduction in extracellular serotonin during sleep deprivation may suggest that serotonin does not play a major role in the mood-elevating effect of sleep deprivation. However, since 5-HT levels are strongly behavioral state dependent, by eliminating sleep, there may be a net increase in serotonergic neurotransmission during the sleep deprivation period.
The deep mesencephalic nucleus (DMN) is a large midbrain reticular region located between the substantia nigra compacta and the superior colliculus. It contains GABAergic cells that share striatal afferents, thalamic and collicular efferents, as well as neurochemical and electrophysiological similarities, with those of the substantia nigra reticulata. In the present paper we used electrophysiological (firing rate and firing pattern) and morphological (densitometric analysis of in situ hybridization histochemical labeling for glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD)65 and GAD67 mRNA) techniques, to study the response of DMN GABAergic cells to the degeneration of nigral dopaminergic cells. Our results showed that unilateral dopaminergic cell loss (after injection of 6-hydroxydopamine in the medial forebrain bundle) induces a bilateral and symmetrical increase in both firing rate and GAD67 mRNA levels and a decrease in GAD65 mRNA levels. These findings support the involvement of DMN GABAergic cells in the basal ganglia modifications that follow dopaminergic cell loss, also suggesting its participation in the pathophysiology of Parkinson's disease. The symmetry of effects, together with its recently reported bilateral projections to the thalamus and superior colliculus, suggest that unlike substantia nigra reticulata, DMN is involved in the interhemispheric regulation of basal ganglia, probably keeping their functional symmetry even after asymmetric lesions.
Seladin-1 is a gene recently shown to be down-regulated in brain regions selectively degenerated in Alzheimer's disease. The sequence of seladin-1 shares similarities with flavin-adenine-dinucleotide-dependent oxidoreductases and it has been found to protect cells from apoptotic cell death. In this work, we show that the transcription of seladin-1 is selectively down-regulated in the brain areas affected in Alzheimer's disease. The down-regulation in seladin-1 transcription was associated with hyperphosphorylated tau seen as linkage to immunohistochemically detected paired helical filament tau, neuritic plaques and neurofibrillary tangles. In contrast, no association was found between seladin-1 transcription and beta-amyloid deposition when analyzing human samples or tissue from transgenic animals. Furthermore, the relative transcription of seladin-1 was found to fluctuate during aging in the transgenic mouse model of Alzheimer's disease. The fluctuation was enhanced by Alzheimer's disease causing mutations in presenilin-1 and amyloid precursor protein genes. Finally, seladin-1 transcription was found to be up-regulated in mouse N2a cells induced to undergo apoptosis with okadaic acid. The results presented here indicate that seladin-1 transcription is selectively down-regulated in brain regions vulnerable to Alzheimer's disease and this down-regulation is associated with the hyperphosphorylation of tau protein.
Genetic manipulation of mice now provides new tools to evaluate the biological functions of the alpha(2)-adrenergic receptor (alpha(2)-AR) subtypes (alpha(2A), alpha(2B), and alpha(2C)). To investigate the role of the alpha(2A)-AR in the modulation of mouse primary behavioral characteristics and brain neurochemistry, mice with targeted inactivation of the gene for the alpha(2A)-AR were compared with wild-type C57BL/6 control animals. First, a comprehensive behavioral screen was employed to provide a detailed characterization of basic neurologic functions. Thereafter, the mice were analyzed in three models of anxiety, i.e. the elevated-plus maze test, the marble burying test and the open field test. The diurnal activity pattern of the mice was assessed in a 24-h locomotor activity test. Furthermore, receptor autoradiography of the brain was performed using the subtype-non-selective alpha(2)-AR antagonist radioligand [(3)H]RS-79948-197. Lack of the alpha(2A)-AR was associated with alterations in autonomic functions, including increased heart rate and piloerection. The mutant mice also exhibited impaired motor coordination skills, increased anxiety-like behavior and an abnormal diurnal activity pattern. In addition, neurochemical analysis of monoamine neurotransmitters revealed a considerable increase in brain norepinephrine turnover in mice lacking alpha(2A)-AR. Our results provide further support for the crucial role of the alpha(2A)-AR in modulating brain noradrenergic neurotransmission and many aspects of mouse behavior and physiology.
The matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are a large family of zinc-dependent enzymes which are able to degrade the protein components of the extracellular matrix. They can be placed into subgroups based on structural similarities and substrate specificity. Aberrant expression of these destructive enzymes has been implicated in the pathogenesis of immune-mediated neuroinflammatory disorders. In this study we investigate the involvement of MMPs, from each subgroup, in Wallerian degeneration in both the central and peripheral nervous systems. Wallerian degeneration describes the process initiated by transection of a nerve fibre and entails the degradation and removal of the axon and myelin from the distal stump. A similar degenerative process occurs as the final shared pathway contributing to most common neuropathies. MMP expression and localisation in the peripheral nervous system are compared with events in the CNS during Wallerian degeneration. Within 3 days after axotomy in the peripheral nervous system, MMP-9, MMP-7 and MMP-12 are elevated. These MMPs are produced by Schwann cells, endothelial cells and macrophages. The temporospatial expression of activated MMP-9 correlates with breakdown of the blood-nerve barrier. In the CNS, 1 week after optic nerve crush, four MMPs are induced and primarily localised to astrocytes, not microglia or oligodendrocytes. In the degenerating optic nerve, examined at later time points (4, 8, 12 and 18 weeks), MMP expression was down-regulated. The absence of MMPs in oligodendrocytes and mononuclear phagocytes during Wallerian degeneration may contribute to the slower removal of myelin debris observed in the CNS. The low level of the inactive pro-form of MMP-9 in the degenerating optic nerve may explain why the blood-brain barrier remains intact, while the blood-nerve barrier is rapidly broken down. We conclude that the difference in the level of expression, activation state and cellular distribution of MMPs may contribute to the different sequence of events observed during Wallerian degeneration in the peripheral compared to the CNS.
Numerous previous studies were devoted to the regeneration of motoneurons toward a denervated muscle after nerve repair by self-anastomosis but, to date, few investigations have evaluated the regeneration of sensory muscle endings. In a previous electrophysiological study (Decherchi et al., 2001) we showed that the functional characteristics of tibialis anterior muscle afferents are affected after self-anastomosis of the peroneal nerve even when the neuromuscular preparation was not chronically stimulated. The present study examines the regeneration of groups I-II (mechanosensitive) and groups III-IV (metabosensitive) muscle afferents by evaluating the recovery of their response to different test agents after self-anastomosis combined or not with chronic muscle stimulation for a 10-weeks period. We compared five groups of rats: C, control; L, nerve lesion without suture; LS, nerve lesion with suture; LSE(m): nerve lesion plus chronic muscle stimulation with a monophasic rectangular current; and LSE(b): nerve lesion plus chronic stimulation with a biphasic current with modulations of pulse duration and frequency, eliciting a pattern of activity resembling that delivered by the nerve to the muscle. Compared to the control group, (1) muscle kept only its original weight in the LSE(b) group, (2) in the LS group the response curve to tendon vibration was shifted toward the highest mechanical frequencies and the response of groups III-IV afferents after fatiguing muscle stimulation lowered, (3) in the LSE(m) group, the pattern of activation of mechanoreceptors by tendon vibrations was altered as in the LS group, and the response of metabosensitive afferents to KCl injections was markedly reduced, (4) in the LSE(b) group, the response to tendon vibration was not modified and the activation of metabosensitive units by increased extracellular potassium chloride concentration was conserved. Both LSE(b) and LSE(m) conditions were ineffective to maintain the post muscle stimulation activation of metabosensitive units as well as their activation by injected lactic acid solutions. Our data indicate that chronic muscle electrostimulation partially favors the recovery of mechano- and metabosensitivity in a denervated muscle and that biphasic modulated currents seem to provide better results.
The mechanisms by which cerebral ischemia and several neurotoxins cause regionally selective damages to the hippocampal formation are largely unknown. The CA1-selective toxicity of N-methyl--aspartate (NMDA), the CA3-selective toxicity of kainate, and the dentate gyrus (DG)-selective toxicity of colchicine were observed in organotypic entorhino-hippocampal cultures. The selective neurotoxicity of NMDA and colchicine but not kainate was present in isolated tissue cultures of each hippocampal subregion, suggesting that the regional vulnerability is irrespective of the hippocampal trisynaptic pathway. Dispersed cultures of neurons prepared from Ammon's horn and the DG still exhibited a preference for susceptibility to NMDA and colchicine, respectively. Thus, the neurons per se appear to be inherently susceptible to specific toxins independently of their original loci, intrinsic neural circuits, vascular system, or other systemic factors.
Optokinetic stimulation activates visual climbing fiber pathways that synapse upon contralateral floccular Purkinje cells. Long-term horizontal optokinetic stimulation causes a progressive decrease in gain of the optokinetic reflex and leads to the subsequent genesis of a prolonged negative optokinetic afternystagmus. Since the flocculus is involved in adaptation to optokinetic stimulation, we used the technique of differential display reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction to explore transcriptional changes in the flocculus evoked by long-term optokinetically evoked climbing fiber discharge. Several differentially transcribed gene products were isolated and sequenced. One of these, calbindin mRNA, was expressed in relatively decreased abundance in the flocculus that received increased climbing fiber input. Decreased transcription of calbindin mRNA was confirmed by northern blots. Hybridization histochemistry was used to localize calbindin mRNA to Purkinje cells and confirmed decreased transcription of calbindin mRNA in Purkinje cells located in folium 1 of the flocculus. Western blots and immunohistochemistry localized the climbing fiber-evoked decreased expression of calbindin to Purkinje cells in folia 1 of the flocculus. The expression of four other calcium-binding proteins in the flocculus was not influenced by optokinetic stimulation. Changes in expression of calbindin could be evoked by decreases in intracellular calcium associated with climbing fiber-evoked decreases in Purkinje cell simple spike activity.The application of differential display reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction has provided a positive screen for several molecules in addition to calbindin whose expression is affected by naturally evoked activity in a major synaptic pathway to the cerebellum. Further experiments will be required to specify the functional role of each of these molecules.
We revealed the structural features of astrocytes by means of light microscopy, confocal laser scanning microscopy and high voltage electron microscopy, and estimated their numerical densities in the mouse hippocampus. The high voltage electron microscope examinations of Golgi-impregnated astrocytes clearly disclosed their fine leaflet-like processes in the masses occupied by individual astrocytes. The intracellular injection of two different fluorescent tracers into two neighboring astrocytes revealed that each astrocyte occupied a discrete area with a limited overlap only at its peripheral portion. In a quantitative analysis using an optical dissector, the numerical densities of astrocytes identified as S100-immunoreactive cells were only slightly different in their areal and laminar distributions. The numerical densities were higher in the stratum lacunosum-moleculare and dentate hilus, while they were slightly lower in the principal cell layers than the average (24.2 x 10(3) mm(-3)) in whole hippocampal regions. As for the dorsoventral difference, the numerical densities were significantly larger at the ventral level in the dentate gyrus, whereas such tendency was not apparent in the hippocampus proper. The projection area of the astrocytes estimated from Golgi-impregnated samples was roughly in inverse relation to the numerical densities; the areas in the stratum lacunosum-moleculare were somewhat smaller than the other layers, where the numerical densities were high. The present study indicates that astrocytes are distributed rather evenly without any prominent areal or laminar differences and that the individual astrocytes have their own domains; the periphery of the domain of a given astrocyte is interdigitated intricately with the processes of adjacent astrocytes whereas its inner core portion is not penetrated by them.
Changes in preproenkephalin expression in the caudate and putamen have been linked to the development of L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA)-induced dyskinesias in primate models of Parkinson's disease, although not all investigators have been able to confirm this association. Because nigrostriatal damage per se is associated with increases in striatal preproenkephalin mRNA levels, it is difficult to know if changes in transcript levels are a result of lesioning or concurrent L-DOPA treatment and resulting dyskinesias. To circumvent these difficulties, we measured striatal preproenkephalin mRNA levels in monkeys with L-DOPA-induced dyskinesias both with and without lesions of the nigrostriatal system. The latter model is not confounded by morphological and biochemical changes resulting from nigrostriatal damage. Monkeys were gavaged with L-DOPA (15 mg/kg) twice daily for a 2-week period and killed 3 days after treatment. 1-Methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) treatment alone resulted in an increase in preproenkephalin mRNA levels as previously shown. However, striatal transcript levels were similarly elevated in dyskinetic MPTP-lesioned animals treated with L-DOPA. In unlesioned animals, preproenkephalin mRNA levels were also similar in control and L-DOPA-treated dyskinetic monkeys. Because drug-induced changes in mRNA may not be sustained for a prolonged period after treatment, a second series of experiments were done in which animals were killed 3-4 h after the last dose of L-DOPA, but the results were similar to those obtained after 3 days. These data show that, while elevations in striatal preproenkephalin mRNA levels are associated with nigrostriatal damage, they are not linked to the development of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesias. These results thus question the importance of preproenkephalin mRNA in the pathogenesis of this disabling complication of L-DOPA therapy in Parkinson's disease.
In the present three-part study, the effects of intrathecally administered N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists on responses to noxious and innocuous colorectal distention (CRD) were examined. In the first part, a passive-avoidance paradigm was used to confirm that 80 mm Hg CRD is a noxious stimulus since it produced avoidance behavior. Acquisition of this behavior was blocked by the NMDA receptor antagonist D(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonopetanoic acid (APV, 60 nmol, intrathecal). In contrast, 20 mm Hg CRD is an innocuous stimulus since there was no difference in the behavior of these animals compared to nondistended controls. In the second part, the effects of the NMDA receptor antagonist dizocilpine maleate (MK-801, 0-100 nmol, intrathecal) on CRD-induced Fos expression in the lumbosacral spinal cord were examined. Noxious and innocuous CRD induced 98+/-4 and 50+/-2 Fos labeled cells per section per side of the spinal cord, respectively. MK-801 dose-dependently attenuated noxious CRD-induced Fos. Compared to saline, the peak attenuation was 55%. Innocuous CRD-induced Fos was attenuated by 36% following 100 nmol MK-801. In the third part, the effects of APV (0-240 nmol, intrathecal) on the visceromotor reflex were examined. APV dose-dependently attenuated the visceromotor reflex to graded intensities of CRD that went from the innocuous into the noxious range. In separate animals that only received innocuous stimulation, APV dose-dependently attenuated the visceromotor reflex. The magnitude of attenuation was similar for both stimulus paradigms. These data expand upon our previous dorsal horn neuronal recordings which showed that spinal NMDA receptors partially mediate the processing of both noxious and innocuous colorectal stimuli. They further underscore a difference from somatic tissue in the role of NMDA receptors in processing acute or transient visceral stimuli in the absence of tissue injury.
Recent experimental and model work indicates that slowly inactivating potassium currents might play critical roles in generating population rhythms. In particular, slow (&lt;1-4 Hz) rhythms recorded in the hippocampus correlate with oscillatory behaviors in interneurons in this frequency range. Limiting the ion channels to the traditional Hodgkin-Huxley sodium and potassium currents, a persistent sodium current, and a slowly inactivating potassium current, we explore the role of slowly inactivating conductances in a multi-compartmental interneuronal model. We find a rich repertoire of tonic and bursting behaviors depending on the distribution, density and kinetics of this conductance. Specifically, burst frequencies of appropriate frequencies could be obtained for certain distributions and kinetics of this conductance. Robust (with respect to injected currents) regimes of tonic firing and bursting behaviors are uncovered. In addition, we find a bistable tonic firing pattern that depends on the slowly inactivating potassium current. Therefore, this work shows ways in which different channel distributions and heterogeneities could produce variable signal outputs. We suggest that an understanding of the dynamical profiles of inhibitory neurons based on the density and distribution of their currents is helpful in dissecting out the complex roles played by this heterogeneous group of cells.
The level of expression of normal cellular prion protein, PrP(c) (cellular prion protein), controls both the rate and the route of neuroinvasive infection, from peripheral entry portal to the CNS. Paradoxically, an overview of the distribution of PrP(c) within tissues outside the CNS is lacking. We have used novel antibodies that recognise cellular prion protein in glutaraldehyde-fixed tissue (in order to optimise immunohistochemical labelling of this conformationally labile protein), in combination with in situ hybridisation, to examine the expression of PrP(c) in peripheral tissues of the adult mouse. We found that although prion protein is expressed in many tissues, it is expressed at high levels only in discrete subpopulations of cells. Prominent amongst these are elements of the &quot;hardwired neuroimmune network&quot; that integrate the body's immune defence and neuroendocrine systems under CNS control. These prion protein-expressing elements include small diameter afferent nerves in the skin and the lamina propria of the aerodigestive tract, sympathetic ganglia and nerves, antigen presenting and processing cells (both follicular and non-follicular dendritic cells) and sub-populations of lymphocytes particularly in skin, gut- and bronchus-associated lymphoid tissues. Prion protein is also expressed in the parasympathetic and enteric nervous systems, in the dispersed neuroendocrine system, and in peripheral nervous system axons and their associated Schwann cells. This selective expression of cellular prion protein provides a variety of alternative routes for the propagation and transport of prion infection entering from peripheral sites, either naturally (via the aerodigestive tract or abraded skin) or experimentally (by intraperitoneal injection) to the brain. Key regulatory cells that express prion protein, and in particular enteroendocrine cells in the mucosal wall of the gut, and dendritic cells that convey pathogens from epithelial layers to secondary lymphoid organs, may be particularly important in the transmission of infection in the periphery.
Previous studies have shown that estrogen application increases the density of synaptic input and the number of spines on CA1 pyramidal neurons. Here, we have investigated whether Schaffer collaterals to CA1 pyramidal cells are involved in this estrogen-induced synaptogenesis on CA1 pyramidal neurons. To this end, we studied estrogen-induced expression of both estrogen receptor (ER) subtypes (ERalpha and ERbeta) together with the presynaptic marker synaptophysin in the rat hippocampus. In tissue sections as well as in slice cultures mRNA expression of ERalpha, ERbeta and synaptophysin was higher in CA3 than in CA1, and mRNA expression and immunoreactivity for both ER subtypes were found in both principal cells and interneurons. By using quantitative image analysis we found stronger nuclear immunoreactivity for ERalpha in CA3 than in CA1. In slice cultures, supplementation of the medium with 10(-8) M estradiol led to an increase of nuclear immunoreactivity for ERalpha, but not for ERbeta, which was accompanied by a dramatic up-regulation of synaptophysin immunoreactivity in stratum radiatum of CA1. Together these findings indicate that estrogen effects on hippocampal neurons are more pronounced in CA3 than in CA1 and that ER activation in CA3 neurons leads to an up-regulation of a presynaptic marker protein in the axons of these cells, the Schaffer collaterals. We conclude that estradiol-induced spine formation on CA1 pyramidal cells may be mediated presynaptically, very likely by activation of ERalpha in CA3 pyramidal cells, followed by an increase in Schaffer collateral synapses.
Although skeletal pain plays a major role in reducing the quality of life in patients suffering from osteoarthritis, Paget's disease, sickle cell anemia and bone cancer, little is known about the mechanisms that generate and maintain this pain. To define the peripheral fibers involved in transmitting and modulating skeletal pain, we used immunohistochemistry with antigen retrieval, confocal microscopy and three-dimensional image reconstruction of the bone to examine the sensory and sympathetic innervation of mineralized bone, bone marrow and periosteum of the normal mouse femur. Thinly myelinated and unmyelinated peptidergic sensory fibers were labeled with antibodies raised against calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) and the unmyelinated, non-peptidergic sensory fibers were labeled with the isolectin B4 (Bandeira simplicifolia). Myelinated sensory fibers were labeled with an antibody raised against 200-kDa neurofilament H (clone RT-97). Sympathetic fibers were labeled with an antibody raised against tyrosine hydroxylase. CGRP, RT-97, and tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactive fibers, but not isolectin B4 positive fibers, were present throughout the bone marrow, mineralized bone and the periosteum. While the periosteum is the most densely innervated tissue, when the total volume of each tissue is considered, the bone marrow receives the greatest total number of sensory and sympathetic fibers followed by mineralized bone and then periosteum. Understanding the sensory and sympathetic innervation of bone should provide a better understanding of the mechanisms that drive bone pain and aid in developing therapeutic strategies for treating skeletal pain.
We hypothesize that sleep state-dependent withdrawal of serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) at upper airway (UAW) dilator motoneurons contributes significantly to sleep-related suppression of dilator muscle activity in obstructive sleep apnea. Identification of 5-HT receptor subtypes involved in postsynaptic facilitation of UAW motoneuron activity may provide pharmacotherapies for this prevalent disorder. We have adapted two assays to provide semi-quantitative measurements of mRNA copy numbers for 5-HT receptor subtypes in single UAW motoneurons. Specifically, soma of 111 hypoglossal (XII) motoneurons in 10 adult male rats were captured using a laser dissection microscope, and then used individually in single round molecular beacon polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for real-time quantitation of 5-HT(2A), 5-HT(2C), 5-HT(3), 5-HT(4), 5-HT(5A), 5-HT(5B), 5-HT(6) or 5-HT(7) receptor. Receptor mRNA copy numbers from single XII motoneurons were compared to control samples from within the XII nucleus and lateral medulla. All 20 motoneuronal soma assayed for the 5-HT(2A) receptor had measurable copy numbers (7028+/-2656 copies/cell). In contrast, copy numbers for the 5-HT(2A) receptor in XII non-motoneuronal (n=17) and lateral medulla (n=15) samples were 81+/-51 copies and 83+/-35 copies, respectively, P&lt;0.05. Seven of 13 XII motoneurons assayed had measurable 5-HT(2C) receptor copy numbers of mRNA (287+/-112 copies/cell). XII soma had minimal 5-HT(3), 5-HT(4), 5-HT(5A), 5-HT(5B), 5-HT(6) or 5-HT(7) receptor mRNA. 5-HT(2A) receptor mRNA presence within XII motoneurons was confirmed with digoxigenin-labeled in situ hybridization. In summary, combined use of laser dissection and molecular beacon PCR revealed 5-HT(2A) receptor as the predominant 5-HT receptor mRNA in XII motoneurons, and identified small quantities of 5-HT(2C) receptor. This information will allow a more complete understanding of serotonergic control of respiratory activity.
High-frequency deep brain stimulation (DBS) of sensorimotor thalamus containing &quot;tremor cells&quot; leads to tremor arrest in humans with parkinsonian and essential tremor. To examine the possible underlying mechanism(s), we recorded in vitro intracellular responses of rat thalamic neurons to local intrathalamic stimulation. Such simulated DBS (sDBS) induced a sustained membrane depolarization accompanied by an increase in apparent membrane conductance in both motor and sensory neurons. With stimulation frequency above approximately 100 Hz, the sDBS-induced depolarization most typically led to repetitive neuronal firing or less frequently resulted in a complete blockade of action potential genesis. When regular intracellular current pulses were injected into cells to mimic &quot;tremor&quot; activity, such rhythmic discharges were invariably disrupted or abolished by the random spike firing induced during high-frequency sDBS. Low-frequency sDBS left rhythmicity unaffected.We conclude that clinical thalamic DBS may lead to a neuronal de-rhythmicity and tremor stoppage through masking and/or blocking rhythmic firing of tremor cells.
Glial cells in situ are able to release neurotransmitters such as glutamate or acetylcholine (ACh). Glioma C6BU-1 cells were used to determine whether the mechanisms of ACh release by a glial cell line are similar or not to quantal release from neurones. Individual C6BU-1 cells, pre-filled with ACh, were moved into contact with a Xenopus myocyte that was used as a real-time ACh detector. Upon electrical stimulation, C6BU-1 cells generated evoked ACh impulses which were Ca(2+)-dependent and quantal (quantal steps of ca. 100 pA). Changes in plasma membrane ultrastructure were investigated by using a freeze-fracture technique designed for obtaining large and flat replicas from monolayer cell cultures. A transient increase in the density of medium and large size intramembrane particles--and a corresponding decrease of small particles--occurred in the plasma membrane of C6BU-1 cells stimulated for ACh release. Changes in interaction forces between adjacent medium and large particles were investigated by computing the radial distribution function and the interaction potential. In resting cells, the radial distribution function revealed a significant increase in the probability to find two particles separated by an interval of 24 nm; the interaction potential suggested repulsive forces for intervals shorter than 24 nm and attractive forces between 24 and 26 nm. In stimulated cells, this interaction was displaced to 21 nm and made weaker, despite of the fact that the overall particle density increased. The nature of this transient change in intramembrane particles is discussed, particularly with regard to the mediatophore proteolipid which is abundant in the membranes C6-BU-1 like in those of cholinergic neurones. In conclusion, evoked ACh release from pre-filled C6-BU-1 glioma cells is quantal and Ca(2+)-dependent. It is accompanied by a transient changes in the size distribution and the organisation of intramembrane particles in the plasma membrane. Thus, for the release characteristics, glioma cells do not differ fundamentally from neurones.
The modulation of neurotransmitter release by calcium channels is well established, yet, sodium channels were regarded mainly as charge carriers. Many lines of evidence suggest a more fine-tuning role played by sodium channels. Using rat cerebrocortical isolated nerve endings (synaptosomes) and two toxins that have separate sites of action on sodium channels and provoke distinct changes in channel kinetics, we were able to show that depending on the rate of increase in channel conductance, the outcome in terms of neurotransmitter release and calcium channel types coupled to that event are different. Mainly, our study focused on veratridine, an alkaloid from lilaceous plants that binds to sodium channel toxin site 2, and tityustoxin, a toxin purified from the venom of the Brazilian yellow scorpion Tityus serrulatus that binds to site 3. Veratridine induces a slower increase in intrasynaptosomal sodium and calcium concentrations, slower depolarization, delayed exocytosis and a slower and predominantly calcium-independent glutamate release, when compared to tityustoxin.Thus, we have used these two toxins to investigate the events that start with sodium entry and culminate with the release of glutamate in isolated nerve endings (synaptosomes) from rat cerebral cortex. With that in mind we measured intrasynaptosomal free sodium concentration [Na(+)](i), intrasynaptosomal free calcium concentration [Ca(2+)](i), membrane potential, exocytosis and glutamate release using fluorescent probes.
GABA is a potent regulator of gonadotropin-releasing hormone neurons in the hypothalamus. To determine the profile of GABA release in the medial preoptic area where the gonadotropin surge generator resides, an in vivo microdialysis study was performed in cyclic female rats. The microdialysis samples were collected and sequential blood samples (150 microl each) were also obtained, at 1-h intervals. During estrus and diestrus 1, GABA release in the medial preoptic area was relatively low. A small increase in the GABA release began in the afternoon of diestrus 1 and attained its peak in the morning of diestrus 2, but declined in the afternoon of that day. The GABA release markedly increased from late in the night of diestrus 2 through the morning of proestrus, when it attained its peak, and thereafter it declined sharply until the critical period of proestrus. A distinct preovulatory luteinizing hormone surge was observed in the afternoon of proestrus in all proestrous rats. From these results we suggest that the preovulatory elevation of the GABA release from the night through to the morning of proestrus, followed by a sharp decline, is closely associated with the onset of the preovulatory luteinizing hormone surge in cyclic female rats. The present study is the first to report the 4-day profile of GABA release in the medial preoptic area during the estrous cycle.
Protein kinase C isoforms including the alpha isozyme have been implicated in morphine tolerance. In the present study, we examined the effect of intrathecal delivery of an antisense oligonucleotide targeting rat protein kinase Calpha mRNA on the expression of spinal protein kinase Calpha isozyme and spinal morphine tolerance. Continuous intrathecal infusion of rats with morphine produced an increase in paw withdrawal threshold to thermal stimulation on day 1, which disappeared by day 5. On day 6, a bolus intrathecal injection of morphine (a probe dose) produced significantly less analgesia in morphine-infused rats than in saline-infused rats, suggesting tolerance. Intrathecal treatment with the protein kinase Calpha antisense concurrent with spinal morphine infusion not only maintained the analgesic effect of morphine during the 5-day infusion, it also significantly increased responsiveness to the probe morphine dose on day 6. In comparison, the missense used in the same treatment paradigm had no effect. The inhibitory effect of protein kinase Calpha antisense on spinal morphine tolerance was dose-dependent, and reversible. Intrathecal treatment with the antisense, but not the missense, in rats decreased expression of spinal protein kinase Calpha mRNA and protein, as revealed by real-time quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and western blots. Expression of the gamma isozyme was not affected by the oligonucleotides. The antisense also attenuated protein kinase C-mediated phosphorylation in spinal cord. These results demonstrate that selective reduction in the expression of the spinal protein kinase Calpha isozyme followed by a decrease of local protein kinase C-mediated phosphorylation will reverse spinal morphine infusion-induced tolerance. This finding is consistent with the view that tolerance produced by morphine infusion is dependent upon an increase in phosphorylation by protein kinase C, and also it emphasizes that the protein kinase Calpha isozyme and its activation in spinal cord may specifically participate in the phenomenon of opiate tolerance.
Estradiol influences Ca(2+) regulation and Ca(2+)-dependent synaptic plasticity, suggesting estrogenic effects on Ca(2+)-dependent enzymes that regulate synaptic plasticity may mediate hormonal influences on cognition. In ovariectomized female rats, injections of estradiol benzoate (EB, 10 microg) reduced hippocampal cytosolic activity of serine/threonine protein phosphatases, calcineurin and protein phosphatase 1 (PP1). The decreased activity was rapid and recovered substantially over a 24-h period. Decreased calcineurin activity was associated with a decreased level of calcineurin in the cytosol. In contrast, expression of PP1 was not altered suggesting that the level of calcineurin activity regulated PP1 activity. EB application to hippocampal slices rapidly decreased cytosolic phosphatase activity, which was not blocked by the estrogen receptor antagonist, ICI 182780. Decreased phosphatase activity was associated with an increase in CA3-CA1 synaptic transmission. In addition, EB application shifted synaptic plasticity, blocking the induction of long-term depression and facilitating the establishment of long-term potentiation. The reduction in calcineurin activity and shift in synaptic plasticity were mimicked to a lesser extent by 17-alpha-estradiol. From these results we suggest that EB can act to rapidly influence Ca(2+) signaling pathways including the activity of Ca(2+)-regulated phosphatases involved in synaptic plasticity.
We have investigated the gene expression responses of a family of methyl CpG-binding domain-containing factors (MeCP2, MBD1, MBD2, and MBD3) in the hippocampus of electrically kindled rats. Expression was examined in both amygdala- and partial perforant-pathway-kindled subjects, 24 h and 28 days following the final stimulation. In general, the responses of MBDs 2 and 3 paralleled each another, both temporally and spatially. The expression of both genes was significantly elevated in all hippocampal subfields at 24 h following either the fifth stage 5 seizure (amygdala kindling) or the 15th stimulation of the perforant pathway. This induced expression was transient, however, as the expression of both genes returned to control levels by 28 days. This pattern of response contrasted to that observed for MeCP2 and MBD1. MeCP2 displayed no change in expression either 24 h or 28 days after amygdala kindling, but did display a late-developing, significant increase in expression in the dentate gyrus at 28 days following perforant-pathway kindling. The expression of MBD1 was unchanged by partial perforant-pathway kindling, but was induced in the dentate gyrus 28 days after amygdala kindling. These results demonstrate that electrical kindling alters the hippocampal expression of methyl DNA-binding factors, but does not affect each factor equivalently. The responsive patterns observed suggest that this family of transcriptional regulators can be differentially altered in the hippocampus by seizure activity.
We compared postsynaptic inhibitory effects on forelimb motoneurons and those on hindlimb motoneurons during generalized motor inhibition evoked by stimulating the medullary reticular formation in decerebrate cats. Here, we address two questions. First, whether the medullary inhibitory effects upon forelimb motoneurons are equivalent to those upon hindlimb motoneurons. Second, whether there is a somatotopographical organization within the medullary reticular formation in terms of inhibitory connections with motoneurons. Repetitive stimulation (20-50 microA, 50-100 Hz) delivered to the dorsomedial medullary reticular formation bilaterally suppressed muscle tone of both the forelimbs and hindlimbs. The medullary stimulation hyperpolarized the membrane potentials of the forelimb (5.4+/-1.8 mV, n=46) and hindlimb (5.4+/-2.0 mV, n=59) motoneurons together with a decrease in input resistance. The degree of membrane hyperpolarization and input resistance was not different in the forelimb and hindlimb motoneurons. The medullary stimulation also depressed the capability of generating antidromic and orthodromic spikes in the motoneurons. Stimuli with pulse trains (one to three pulses, 5-10-ms intervals, 20-50 microA) applied to the medullary inhibitory region induced a mixture of excitatory and inhibitory postsynaptic potentials in the motoneurons. The most noteworthy potentials were the inhibitory postsynaptic potentials with a late latency. They were observed in most forelimb (n=57/58, 98.3%) and hindlimb (n=63/64, 98.4%) motoneurons. The inhibitory potentials in forelimb motoneurons had a latency of 25-30 ms and a peak latency of 35-40 ms, and those in hindlimb motoneurons had a latency of 30-35 ms and a peak latency of 50-60 ms. A difference was not observed in the location of the effective sites for evoking the inhibitory effects in the forelimb and hindlimb motoneurons. These sites were homogeneously distributed in the dorsomedial part of the medullary reticular formation corresponding to the location of the nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis. From these findings we suggest that there is an equivalent amount of the postsynaptic inhibitory effects exerted on forelimb and hindlimb motoneurons during medullary-induced generalized motor inhibition. In addition, the medullary reticular formation may be functionally organized as a homogeneous or non-specific region in terms of the medullary reticulospinal inhibitory connections with forelimb and hindlimb motoneurons.
Hyperthermia above a critical threshold results in multisystemic changes that include neurological manifestations of heat stroke. It is unknown if the latter represents an intrinsic thermal sensitivity of the CNS or whether injury is secondary to physiological responses of non-CNS origin. To address this issue, the present work examined functional, structural, and biochemical changes in the CNS of dogs subjected to a thermal dosage immediately below that which induces disseminated intravascular coagulation with secondary multiple organ injury. The experimental approach is previously reported, inducing a 42.5 degrees C, 90 min, whole body hyperthermia while preventing other physiological responses to treatment, including respiratory alkalosis and significant reductions in mean arterial pressure. Functional analyses included neurologic examinations and brainstem auditory evoked potential recordings in the post-treatment interval in both hyperthermic and euthermic control populations. Biochemical and structural analyses examined the expression of 70-kDa heat shock proteins, cytokines, markers of astroglial and microglial injury/activation, evidence of vascular endothelial damage, and evidence of neuronal and axonal injury in brain between 0.5 h and 8 days from the end of the treatment. The only significant change associated with treatment was induction of the major inducible 70-kDa heat shock protein, this being most prominent in the cerebellum with maximal expression at 6 h and a return to baseline by 8 days.Collectively, from these results we suggest that the canine brain is intrinsically resistant to sublethal hyperthermia such that when CNS lesions occur, they do so in the presence of other physiological derangements.
Pretreatment with 10 microM of the antifungal drug clotrimazole potently reduced the death of cultured rat cerebellar granule cells induced by oxygen/glucose deprivation, and the excitotoxic effect of glutamate on cultured hippocampal neurons and cerebellar granule cells. In patch-clamped hippocampal pyramidal neurons, 10-50 microM clotrimazole caused a decrease in the amplitude of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-mediated currents. Glutamate induced intracellular Ca(2+) overload, as measured by Fluo-3 confocal fluorescence imaging, while clotrimazole reduced Ca(2+) overload and promoted the recovery of intracellular calcium homeostasis after glutamate treatment. Using tetramethylrhodamine ethyl ester fluorescence as a marker of mitochondrial membrane potential we found that clotrimazole prevented the glutamate-induced loss of mitochondrial membrane potential. Our data provide evidence that the protective effect of clotrimazole against oxygen/glucose deprivation and excitotoxicity is due to the ability of this drug to partially block NMDA receptor-gated channel, thus causing both reduced calcium overload and lower probability of the mitochondrial potential collapse.
The main mammalian circadian pacemaker is located in the suprachiasmatic nucleus of the hypothalamus. Clock genes such as the mouse Period gene (mPer) play a role in this core clock mechanism in the mouse. With brief light exposure during the subjective night, the photic information, which is conveyed directly to the suprachiasmatic nucleus via the retinohypothalamic tract, results in mPer1 and mPer2 expression in the suprachiasmatic nucleus. Glutamate and pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) are co-stored in the retinohypothalamic tract. Recent studies have suggested that not only glutamate but also PACAP are key players in the phase shift that occurs during subject night; however, research demonstrating a direct association between the PACAP-induced phase shift and mPer gene expression has yet to be conducted. In the present study, PACAP (200 pmol) injected into the lateral ventricle during subjective night (circadian time 16; circadian time 12, onset of locomotor activity) caused a moderate phase delay associated with moderate expression of mPer1 and only slight expression of mPer2 in the mouse suprachiasmatic nucleus. PACAP-induced mPer1 expression was also observed in the paraventricular nucleus and periventricular area of the hypothalamus. (+)MK-801 (0.5 mg/kg), an N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist, suppressed both the PACAP-induced phase delay and mPer1 expression. From these results we suggest that PACAP induces phase delays in the mouse circadian rhythm in association with an increase of mPer expression in the suprachiasmatic nucleus via the activation of NMDA receptors.
As visualized by light and electron microscopic immunocytochemistry, the distribution of the neuronal serotonin-2A (5-HT(2A)) receptor is mainly intracellular throughout adult rat brain. This localization is particularly striking in the pyramidal cells of cerebral cortex, the dendrites of which are intensely immunoreactive, but without any labeling of their spines. In view of recent yeast two-hybrid and biochemical results suggesting an association of 5-HT(2A) receptors with the cytoskeletal microtubule-associated protein MAP1A, the respective subcellular distributions of the receptors and of MAP1A were compared by quantitative electron microscopic immunocytochemistry in dendrites of adult rat frontoparietal cortex. Counts of silver-intensified immunogold particles revealed a higher density of 5-HT(2A) receptors in smaller rather than larger dendrites, and an apportionment between pre-defined compartments representing the plasma membrane and the cytoplasm that was proportional to the relative surface area of these compartments. MAP1A immunoreactivity also predominated in smaller versus larger dendrites, but with a slightly lower proportion of labeling in the plasma membrane versus cytoplasmic compartment. The co-localization of 5-HT(2A) receptors and MAP1A protein in the same dendrites could be demonstrated in double immunolabeling experiments. These results confirmed the predominantly somato-dendritic, intracellular localization of 5-HT(2A) receptors in cerebral cortex, showed their higher concentration in distal as opposed to proximal dendrites, and suggested their potential association to the cytoskeleton in cortical neurons in vivo. Such a distribution of 5-HT(2A) receptors reinforces our earlier hypothesis that 5-HT(2A) receptors participate in intraneuronal signaling processes involving the cytoskeleton, and raises the possibility that their activation could be dependent upon that of another co-localized, plasma membrane-bound, 5-HT receptor.
We recorded the effects of hypoxia combined with relative hypoglycemia on pre- and post-synaptic potentials in the CA1 area of slices from 4-month-old control and diabetic (streptozotocin-treated) Wistar rats. In experiments on slices kept in 10 or 4 mM glucose (at 33 degrees C), hypoxia was applied until the pre-synaptic afferent volley disappeared--after 12-13 min in most slices, but much earlier (5+/-0.8 min) in diabetic slices kept in 4 mM glucose. When oxygenation was resumed, the afferent volley returned in all slices, for an overall mean recovery of 86.5% (+/-8.8%). Field post-synaptic potentials were fully blocked within 2-3 min of the onset of hypoxia. After the end of hypoxia, they failed to reappear in some slices: overall, their recovery varied between 62 and 68% in control slices, as well as in diabetic slices kept in 10 mM glucose; but recovery was very poor in diabetic slices kept in 4 mM glucose (only 15+/-0.94%). In the latter, hypoxic injury discharges occurred earlier (4.2+/-0.68 min vs. 6.5-8 min for other groups). We conclude that diabetes appears to make hippocampal slices more prone to irreversible loss of synaptic function and early block of axonal conduction when temporary hypoxia is combined with moderate hypoglycemia.
Schizophrenia is currently thought to be associated with a hypoglutamatergic state that is mimicked by acute phencyclidine (PCP), an antagonist of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor subtype. In this study we tested the hypothesis that chronic treatment of rats with this antagonist may be a more appropriate animal model than acute exposure since it could result in adaptive synaptic responses that would model certain aspects of the schizophrenic state in humans. In vitro intracellular electrophysiological recordings employing brain slices from rats treated chronically in vivo with PCP demonstrated that chronic PCP caused a substantial increase in synaptic responses mediated by NMDA receptors without any significant changes in alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid/kainate-mediated synaptic responses. At the same time, GABA(A) receptor-mediated inhibitory responses were depressed significantly. Pharmacological and paired-pulse facilitation experiments demonstrated that these adaptive responses following chronic PCP administration were not the result of altered glutamate or GABA release. Immunoblot analyses suggest that the hyperfunctional NMDA response is at least partially mediated by an increased synthesis of NR1 and NR2A subunits as well as a change in the subunit stoichiometry of the NMDA receptor. This change in receptor composition was also supported by pharmacological experiments with a subunit selective NMDA antagonist. Our data support a reconsideration of NMDA and GABA(A) receptor responsiveness following a chronic, not acute, exposure to PCP and the adaptations that persist after such a regimen.
We have used frequency-dependent inhibition, a form of short-term plasticity mediated by the activation of inhibitory interneurons, to characterize in vivo alterations in local circuit activity and plasticity in the dentate gyrus of the anesthetized rat. The application of the GABA-A receptor blocker, bicuculline, induced a transient reduction in frequency-dependent inhibition, indicating that this form of local circuit activity is GABA-mediated. Delivering theta burst stimulation to the perforant pathway of the hippocampus induced long-term potentiation of the population excitatory post-synaptic potential, reflecting the potentiation of the perforant path-dentate gyrus granule cell synapses. Concomitantly, theta burst stimulation caused a lasting reduction in frequency-dependent inhibition. In aged rats, long-term potentiation could be induced to the same level as in young rats, but while in young rats frequency-dependent inhibition was concomitantly reduced, frequency-dependent inhibition in the old rats did not show this form of plasticity. Our results indicate that theta burst stimulation induces a form of local circuit plasticity independently of its known capacity to induce synaptic plasticity, and that this form of local circuit plasticity is compromised in aging. Based on these results we propose a potential role for plasticity at the level of the local circuit in learning and memory.
This work aimed to define the spatial expression of endothelin A (ET(A)) and B (ET(B)) receptors in the cerebral cortex after permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) and to identify the phenotype of cells expressing ET(A) and ET(B) receptors. Cortical expression of ET(A) and ET(B) receptors was determined at the mRNA level by semi-quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and at the protein level by immunofluorescence staining, 12, 24 and 72 h after MCAO. Cells expressing endothelin receptors were phenotyped by double labelling with antibodies, anti-protein gene product (PGP9.5) and anti-ED1, towards neurons and activated microglia/macrophages, respectively. Both ET(A) and ET(B) receptor mRNA expressions increased significantly in the ipsilateral cortex in a time-dependent manner after MCAO. Robust expression of ET(A) receptors was noted in most neurons of the ischemic core and in several neurons in laminae 3 and 4 of the peri-infarct region 24 and 72 h after MCAO. ET(B) receptor immunoreactivity was observed in activated microglia/macrophages, beginning 24 h after MCAO. These results provide the first evidence that the action of endothelin during ischemia may be mediated by neuronal ET(A) receptors and activated microglia/macrophage ET(B) receptors. This differential localization of ET(A) and ET(B) receptors suggests that endothelin is involved in some complex neuron-glial interactions in addition to its vascular modulatory activity during ischemia.
A number of signaling molecules have been implicated in the acute response to hypoxia/ischemia in the adult brain. In contrast, the reaction to chronic hypoxemia is largely unexplored. We used a protocol of chronic hypoxia in rat pups during the first three postnatal weeks, encompassing the period of cellular plasticity in the cerebral cortex. We find that the levels of fibroblast growth factor 1 (FGF1) and FGF2, two members of the FGF family, increase after 2 weeks of chronic hypoxia. In contrast, members of the neurotrophin family are unaffected. FGF2 is normally expressed in the nucleus of mature, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-containing astrocytes. Under hypoxia, most FGF2-containing cells do not express detectable levels of GFAP, suggesting that chronic low O(2) induces their transformation into more immature glial phenotypes. Remarkably, hypoxia promotes the appearance of radial glia throughout the sub-ventricular and ependymal zones. Most of these cells express vimentin and brain lipid binding protein. A subset of these radial glial cells expresses FGF receptor 1, and are in close contact with FGF2-positive cells in the sub-ventricular zone. Thus, FGF receptor signaling in radial glia may foster cell genesis after chronic hypoxic damage. From the results of this study we suggest that after the chronic exposure to low levels of oxygen during development, the expression of radial glia increases in the forebrain periventricular region. We envision that astroglia, which are the direct descendants of radial glia, are reverting back to immature glial cells. Alternatively, hypoxia hinders the normal maturation of radial glia into GFAP-expressing astrocytes. Interestingly, hypoxia increases the levels of expression of FGF2, a factor that is essential for neuronal development. Furthermore, chronic hypoxia up-regulated FGF2's major receptor in the periventricular region. Because radial glia have been suggested to play a key role in neurogenesis and cell migration, our data suggests that hypoxia-induced FGF signaling in radial glia may represent part of a conserved program capable of regenerating neurons in the brain after injury.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is a unique neurotrophin which not only supports the development of neurons but also modulates the synaptic activity in a number of neuronal systems. BDNF is synthesized in neurons, anterogradely transported and released from nerve terminals and exerts acute effects on synaptic transmission in both peripheral and central nervous systems. Previous studies have shown that BDNF is distributed in several groups of neurons in the brain stem which regulate cardiovascular functions. Here we showed that injection of BDNF (40-400 ng/100 nl) into the rostral ventrolateral medulla resulted in a significant increase in arterial blood pressure (Delta35.5+/-3.5 mmHg) in rats. The duration of change in blood pressure was 145+/-40 s with a latency of 3-5 s. There was no significant effect on the heart rate. The injection of glutamate as a positive control also triggered an increase in blood pressure. Injection of phosphate-buffered saline as a control or the same amount of nerve growth factor did not cause significant changes in blood pressure in different preparations. Immunohistochemistry showed that the nerve terminals immunoreactive for BDNF were localized in several brain stem regions and terminate around spinal projection neurons in the rostral ventrolateral medulla. Neurons in the rostral ventrolateral medulla can uptake exogenous BDNF and express the high affinity receptor trkB. From these results we suggest that BNDF in the medulla may play a role in the regulation of blood pressure.
Drosophila dachshund is involved in development of eye and limbs and in the development of mushroom bodies, a brain structure required for learning and memory in flies. Its mouse homologue mDach1 is expressed in various embryonic tissues, including limbs, the eye, the dorsal spinal cord and the forebrain. We have isolated a forebrain-specific 2.5-kb enhancer element termed D6 from the mouse mDach1 gene and created D6-LacZ and D6-green fluorescent protein (GFP) reporter gene mouse lines. In embryonic stages, the D6 enhancer activity is first detected at embryonic day 10.5 in scattered cells of the outbuldging cortical vesicles. By embryonic day 12.5, D6 activity expands throughout the developing neocortex and the hippocampus. In the adult mouse brain, D6 enhancer is active in neurons of the cortical plate, in the CA1 layer of the hippocampus and in cells of the subventricular zone and the ventricular ependymal zone. Adult mice also show D6 activity in the olfactory bulb and in the mamillary nucleus. Cultured D6-positive cells, which were derived from embryonic and postnatal brains, show characteristics of neural stem cells. They form primary and secondary neurospheres that differentiate into neurons and astrocytes as examined by cell-specific markers.Our results show that D6 enhancer exerts highly tissue-specific activity in the neurons of the neocortex and hippocampus and in neural stem cells. Moreover, the fluorescence cell sorting of D6-GFP cells from embryonic and postnatal stages allows specific selection of primary neural progenitors and their analysis.
The present study was performed to determine whether or not the increased arterial pressure triggered by 5-HT(3) receptor stimulation in the nucleus tractus solitarii and underlain by a sympathoexcitation is associated with the activation of ventromedullary cells known to be involved in vascular regulation, i.e. the C1 and A1 catecholaminergic cells. For this purpose, double immunohistochemical labeling for tyrosine hydroxylase and c-fos protein was performed all along the ventrolateral medulla after microinjection of 1-(m-chlorophenyl)-biguanide, a selective and potent 5-HT(3) receptor agonist, into the nucleus tractus solitarii of alpha-chloralose/urethane-anaesthetized rats. This treatment produced a significant elevation of arterial pressure ( approximately +35 mm Hg). Concomitantly, a significant increase in the number of c-fos expressing neurons was observed in the rostral ventrolateral medulla (+63%), in particular in its most anterior part (+78%), and in the medullary region surrounding the caudal part of the facial nucleus (+91%). Retrograde labeling with gold-horseradish peroxidase complex showed that at least some of these activated c-fos expressing cells project to the spinal cord. However, the number of double-stained neurons, i.e. c-fos and tyrosine hydroxylase positive neurons, did not increase at any level of the ventrolateral medulla. In contrast, under the same alpha-chloralose/urethane anesthesia, systemic infusion of sodium nitroprusside appeared to produce a hypotension and a marked increase in the density of such double c-fos and tyrosine hydroxylase expressing cells in the rostral ventrolateral medulla and the caudal medullary region surrounding the caudal part of the facial nucleus. These data indicate that medullary catecholaminergic C1 and A1 neurons are not involved in the pressor effect elicited by 5-HT(3) receptor stimulation in the nucleus tractus solitarii. However, this 5-HT(3) receptor-mediated effect is clearly associated with the excitation of (non-catecholaminergic) neurons within the pressor region of the ventral medulla.
ADAM11 is the prototype member of the predominantly CNS-associated clade of the ADAM metalloprotease-disintegrins that has been implicated in neural adhesion and axon guidance. The present study describes the spatiotemporal expression pattern of the ADAM11 gene in adult and developing mouse, and identifies the cells expressing the gene. In the adult CNS, ADAM11 mRNA was present throughout the forebrain, including different cortical fields and diencephalic nuclei. In brainstem, low to moderate expression was detected in certain midbrain nuclei, while several pontine and medullary nuclei showed a very strong signal. High expression was observed in the cerebellar cortex and spinal cord. In addition, ADAM11 was expressed in ganglia of the peripheral nervous system (PNS), retinae, testes, liver, and at lower levels in epidermal and mucosal epithelia, kidney, and salivary gland. The expression was localized to neurons in all examined CNS and PNS subfields. During pre- and perinatal development, ADAM11 was differentially expressed both in the developing PNS and CNS, as well as in heart, kidney, eyes, and brown fat. The present results suggest a widespread involvement of ADAM11 in neuron-neuron or neuron-glial cell interactions during development as well as in the adult nervous system. They provide novel complementary information to recently accumulated data on CNS integrin gene expression and offer useful clues for further studies of the neural functions of ADAMs and integrins.
Despite an abundance of studies on mechanisms of behavioral sensitization, considerable uncertainty exists as to whether alterations in dopamine neurotransmission underlie the exacerbated behavioral effects of cocaine observed during the early stages of abstinence. One of the factors contributing to the uncertainty and controversy may be the limitations in utilized measurement techniques (mostly conventional microdialysis). The techniques of quantitative microdialysis under transient conditions and rotating disk electrode voltammetry were used to characterize basal dopamine dynamics as well as time-related changes in extracellular dopamine concentrations and dopamine uptake that occur in response to an acute drug challenge in control animals and animals with previous history of cocaine. Basal extracellular dopamine concentrations were unaltered on abstinence day 3 from repeated cocaine administration (5 days, 20 mg/kg, i.p.). The extraction fraction of dopamine, an indirect measure of dopamine uptake, was significantly lower in cocaine-sensitized animals relative to controls. These two facts, taken together, suggest that basal dopamine release is depressed in cocaine-sensitized animals on abstinence day 3. At the same time, a cocaine challenge decreased the extraction fraction and increased the extracellular dopamine concentration in both experimental groups. The magnitude of the increase in extracellular dopamine concentration was greater in cocaine-sensitized animals, while the ability of cocaine to decrease the extraction fraction was unaltered, suggesting that the increase in extracellular dopamine concentration reflects an increase in drug-evoked dopamine release. Moreover, cocaine-pretreated rats demonstrated greater depolarization-induced dopamine release and the ability of dopamine D(2) receptor agonist, quinpirole, to inhibit release was decreased in these animals. These data demonstrate that a cocaine treatment regimen resulting in behavioral sensitization is associated with a reduction in basal dopamine release, an enhancement in both cocaine and K(+)-evoked dopamine release, and a subsensitivity of dopamine D(2) autoreceptors that regulate dopamine release in the nucleus accumbens.
On postnatal day 12, young rats show an aversion to an odor to which they had been exposed along with presentations of foot shock on postnatal day 11. The acquisition of this aversive learning involves and requires disinhibition of the mitral/tufted cells induced by centrifugal noradrenergic activation during somatosensory stimulation. This olfactory learning is established only for the odor to which the rat has been exposed during conditioning. Infusion of the GABA(A) receptor antagonist bicuculline at a high dose (2.0 nmol/each olfactory bulb) into the olfactory bulb in the presence of an odor is capable of developing olfactory aversive responses without somatosensory stimulation in young rats. The purpose of this study is to characterize the properties of bicuculline-induced aversive responses. In contrast to the odor specificity of aversive learning produced by odor-shock conditioning, bicuculline-induced aversive responses lack odor specificity. Namely, bicuculline infusion in the presence of a citral odor results, in a dose-dependent manner, in subsequent aversive responses to strange odors (benzaldehyde and vanillin) that have never been presented. Moreover, bicuculline infusion alone is sufficient to produce dose-dependent aversive responses to strange odors (citral, benzaldehyde and geraniol). From these results we suggest that disinhibition of mitral/tufted cells from granule cells by bicuculline infusion makes young rats aversive to strange odors non-specifically, as if the rats had learned the odor aversion as a result of odor exposure paired with foot shock. Different mechanisms of disinhibition of the mitral/tufted cells may underlie both the pharmacological manipulation and noradrenergic activation by somatosensory stimulation.
Prenatal exposure to teratogen agents is linked to the pathogenesis of neurodevelopment disorders, but the mechanisms leading to the neurodevelopmental disturbance are poorly understood. To elucidate this, an in vitro model of microglial activation induced by neuronal injury has been characterized. In this connection, exposure of primary microglial cells to the conditioned medium from the neuronal damage induced by teratogen, cyclophosphamide, is accompanied by a reactive microgliosis as assessed by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, lectin histochemistry, double labeling immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization. Our results showed that reactive microglia were capable of releasing various cytokines such as tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interleukin-1, interleukin-6, transforming growth factor-beta and nitric oxide. Also, we have shown that macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF) was in fact produced by the reactive microglia. Concomitant to this was the increased expression of M-CSF receptor in these cells following the teratogen-induced neuronal injury. The up-regulation of M-CSF receptor suggests that the cells are capable of responding to self-derived M-CSF in an autocrine fashion. Results with antibody neutralization further suggest that microglial proinflammatory response, as manifested by cytokine expression in culture, is mediated by M-CSF, which acts as a molecular signal that initiates a microglial reaction. We therefore suggest that microglial activation following cyclophosphamide treatment is not only a response to the neuronal damage, but is also a cause of the damage during pathogenesis of neurodevelopment disorders. To this end, the increased expression of M-CSF and its receptor on microglia would be directly linked to the active cell proliferation and proinflammatory response in the teratogen-induced injury.
As an important neurotoxin, aluminium can cause cognitive dysfunctions and mental diseases. Previous studies have reported that aluminium impaired long-term potentiation (LTP) in vivo and in vitro. Here, we utilise two models of synaptic plasticity, LTP and long-term depression (LTD) to study the effects of aluminium on synaptic plasticity in vivo. Neonatal Wistar rats were chronically exposed to aluminium from birth to weaning via the milk of dams fed with 0.3% aluminium chloride solution. Excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP) and population spikes (PS) were recorded from the dentate gyrus (DG) of adult rats by electrically stimulating the perforant path. THE FOLLOWING RESULTS WERE OBTAINED: (1) The input/output function indicated that, as compared to controls, aluminium increased the baseline amplitude of the PS, but decreased the baseline slope of EPSP. (2) Aluminium significantly prevented LTD in PS (controls: 77.36+/-6.7%, n=7; aluminium-exposed: 102.01+/-9.1%, n=7; P&lt;0.05) and decreased the LTD amplitude in EPSP (controls: 76.61+/-4.1%, n=7; aluminium-exposed: 94.31+/-7.9% n=7, P&lt;0.05). (3) Aluminium reduced the amplitude of LTP in both PS (controls: 190+/-16.1%, n=7; aluminium-exposed: 135+/-9.7%, n=7; P&lt;0.05) and EPSP (control: 132+/-9.3%, n=7; aluminium-exposed: 115+/-10.6%, n=7; P&lt;0.05). As for LTD and LTP, PS was impaired more seriously than EPSP in aluminium-exposed rats. (4) Aluminium exposure decreased the paired-pulse facilitation (PPF) of PS at 30-150 ms interpulse interval (IPI), and reduced 93.5% of PPF at 80 ms IPI in PS (controls: 243.4+/-39.8%, n=7; aluminium-exposed: 149.9+/-12.3%, n=7). There was no significant difference in EPSP of PPF. From these results we conclude that aluminium exposure in neonatal rats thus reduces the amplitude of LTP and PPF and blocks the induction of LTD in the DG. We suggest that aluminium affects both presynaptic and postsynaptic mechanisms of synaptic transmission.
The present study tested the hypothesis that nitration is a mechanism of hypoxia-induced modification of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor. To test this hypothesis the effect of hypoxia on the nitration of the NR1, NR2A and NR2B subunits of the NMDA receptor was determined. Furthermore, the effect of administration of a nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitor, N-nitro-L-arginine (NNLA) on the hypoxia-induced nitration of the NMDA receptor subunits as well as the NMDA receptor-mediated Ca2+ influx, an index of NMDA receptor-ion channel function, were determined in cortical synaptosomes. Studies were performed in newborn piglets divided into normoxic, hypoxic and hypoxic-NNLA groups. Hypoxia was induced by decreasing the FiO(2) to 0.07-0.09 for 60 min. Cerebral tissue hypoxia was confirmed by determining the levels of high energy phosphates ATP and phosphocreatine. Nitration of the NMDA receptor subunits was determined by immunoprecipitation using specific antibodies and western blot analysis. NMDA receptor-ion channel-mediated Ca2+ influx was determined using 45Ca2+. There was a significant increase in the nitrated NR1, NR2A and NR2B subunits following hypoxia: 104+/-11 vs. 275+/-18 optical density (OD)xmm(2) for NR1 (P&lt;0.05), 212+/-36 vs. 421+/-16 ODxmm(2) for NR2A (P&lt;0.05) and 246+/-44 vs. 360+/-26 ODxmm(2) for NR2B (P&lt;0.05). This increase in nitrated NR1, NR2A and NR2B subunits of the NMDA receptor was prevented by the administration of NNLA prior to hypoxia (NR1 160+/-19, P=NS, NNLA vs. normoxic; NR2A 304+/-49, P=NS, NNLA vs. normoxic, and NR2B 274+/-19, P=NS, NNLA vs. normoxic). The increase in nitration of the NR1, NR2A and NR2B subunits of the NMDA receptor increased as a function of decreased cerebral high-energy phosphates, ATP and phosphocreatine, during hypoxia. Furthermore, NOS blockade prior to hypoxia resulted in prevention of the hypoxia-induced increase in NMDA receptor-mediated Ca2+ influx. Our results demonstrate that hypoxia results in increased nitration of the NMDA receptor subunits and that administration of an NOS inhibitor prior to hypoxia prevents the hypoxia-induced nitration of the NMDA receptor subunits as well as the hypoxia-induced increase in NMDA receptor-mediated Ca2+ influx. We conclude that nitration is a mechanism of modification of the NMDA receptor function during hypoxia in the newborn piglet brain.
The importance of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor in various painful conditions is well established. The effects of peripheral nerve lesion or joint inflammation, as models of different pain states, on NMDA receptor-mediated currents and NMDA receptor subunit mRNA expression were therefore studied in acutely dissociated neurones from the rat spinal cord dorsal horn. In the neuronal population from control rats, all four NR2 subunits and both NR1 splice variants assayed were detected. A majority of neurones expressed mRNA for more than one NR2 subunit, and some neurones expressed all four NR2 subunits as well as both NR1 splice variants. The NR2B subunit was the most commonly expressed, while the NR2C was the rarest. Following nerve lesion, fewer neurones expressed NR2A compared to the control. The dose-response curve for glutamate-evoked NMDA receptor-mediated currents in the neurones was best described by a three-component fit, suggesting that three functionally distinct NMDA receptor populations are present in the dorsal horn. Minor changes in the dose-response curve after nerve lesion could not be ascribed with certainty to the lesion. Changes in other parameters of NMDA receptor-mediated currents were observed neither after nerve lesion nor after joint inflammation. In summary, the present work demonstrates that single dorsal horn neurones express mRNA for several NMDA receptor subunits. The glutamate dose-response curves indicate that there are three major types of NMDA receptors present in dorsal horn neurones. We also report a reduced expression of NR2A following peripheral nerve lesion.
Chronic neuroleptic treatment leads to the development of tardive dyskinesia in 20-30% of patients. While the pathogenesis of tardive dyskinesia remains elusive, altered opioid peptide function in striatal projection pathways of the basal ganglia has been implicated. Using a rodent model of vacuous chewing movements induced by chronic neuroleptic administration, we investigated regional involvement of opioid transmission in tardive dyskinesia. We examined the role of dynorphin in the direct striatonigral pathway by infusing nor-binaltorphimine, a selective kappa opioid receptor antagonist, into the substantia nigra pars reticulata. As well, infusions of naloxone (a non-specific opioid receptor antagonist), D-Phe-Cys-Tyr-D-Trp-Orn-Thr-Pen-Thr amide (CTOP; a mu opioid receptor antagonist) or naltrindole (a delta opioid receptor antagonist) into the globus pallidus were used to establish the contribution of the striatopallidal pathway. Chronic fluphenazine treatment (25 mg/kg i.m. every 3 weeks for 18 weeks) resulted in a robust increase in vacuous chewing movements. Infusion of nor-binaltorphimine (5.0 nmol) into the substantia nigra pars reticulata significantly attenuated vacuous chewing movements. Infusion of naloxone (0.5 and 2.0 nmol) into the globus pallidus also significantly attenuated vacuous chewing. Infusion of naltrindole into the globus pallidus blocked vacuous chewing at all doses administered (0.5, 1.0, 2.0 nmol) while CTOP was only effective at the two higher doses. From these results we suggest that increases in dynorphin in the direct striatonigral pathway and enkephalin in the indirect striatopallidal pathway following chronic neuroleptic administration are both likely to contribute to tardive dyskinesia.
We have shown that osmotic stress increases brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) mRNA in the supraoptic nucleus and that this increase seems to be determined by the high expression of transcripts containing exon I. The paraventricular nucleus is another hypothalamic neuronal subset where BDNF mRNA is also sensitive to osmotic stress stimulation. In this nucleus, transcripts containing exon I were not modified but only those containing exon II. By contrast, transcripts containing exon III did not exhibit any variation in our experimental conditions. The presence of BDNF mRNA in both paraventricular and supraoptic hypothalamic nuclei was recently reported. These nuclei are extremely sensitive to osmotic stimuli and their neurons secrete oxytocin and arginine-vasopressin in the posterior pituitary gland. This study was thus designed to investigate the possible involvement of BDNF in the response of supraoptic nucleus to osmotic stress stimulus. Osmotic stress was induced by hypertonic saline injection (1.35% NaCl) administered to animals 3 h before analysis. We used non-isotopic in situ hybridization to study the expression of BDNF mRNA and its transcripts with antisense riboprobes on histological brain sections, including paraventricular and supraoptic nuclei from control and osmotic stress-stimulated animals. To investigate a possible correlation between the expression of BDNF mRNA and arginine-vasopressin, the peptide content was analyzed by immunohistochemistry in both paraventricular and supraoptic nuclei at two different times after hyperosmotic injection. The results showed that BDNF mRNA expression preceded the arginine-vasopressin increase. In addition, on serial adjacent histological sections of supraoptic nucleus (10 microm), both BDNF and arginine-vasopressin mRNAs were visualized by isotopic in situ hybridization and the images were overlaid, showing that almost all of the hybridization signals were overlapped. Taken together our results are in keeping with the hypothesis that activation of the different BDNF promoters seems to be region-specific. Besides, the temporal correlation between both BDNF mRNA expression and arginine-vasopressin content, as well as the morphological vicinity between their respective producing cells in the supraoptic nucleus, suggest an autocrine or paracrine action for this neurotrophin in the regulation of arginine-vasopressin secretion.
Many synapses contain two types of receptors - integrins and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors - that have been implicated in peptide internalization. The present studies tested if either class is involved in the uptake of the 42-residue form of amyloid beta peptide (Abeta1-42), an event hypothesized to be of importance in the development of Alzheimer's disease. Cultured hippocampal slices were exposed to Abeta1-42 for 6 days in the presence or absence of soluble Gly-Arg-Gly-Asp-Ser-Pro, a peptide antagonist of Arg-Gly-Asp (RGD)-binding integrins, or the disintegrin echistatin. Abeta uptake, as assessed with immunocytochemistry, occurred in 42% of the slices incubated with Abeta peptide alone but in more than 80% of the slices co-treated with integrin antagonists. Uptake was also found in a broader range of hippocampal subfields in RGD-treated slices. Increased sequestration was accompanied by two characteristics of early stage Alzheimer's disease: elevated concentrations of cathepsin D immunoreactivity and activation of microglia. The selective NMDA receptor antagonist D-(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate completely blocked internalization of Abeta, up-regulation of cathepsin D, and activation of microglia. Our results identify two classes of receptors that cooperatively regulate the internalization of Abeta1-42 and support the hypothesis that characteristic pathologies of Alzheimer's disease occur once critical intraneuronal Abeta concentrations are reached.
Recently, variation upon a well-established hippocampal model has given rise to a new paradigm in which the strength of synaptic inputs to neocortical layer 2/3 is estimated in vitro by recording synaptically driven extracellular potentials elicited there by electrical stimulation applied to underlying layer 4. The analysis of these potentials is commonly based upon an assumption that postsynaptic spiking has played no significant role in their generation. Here, we have tested this assumption by quantifying in rats (using data obtained by cell-attached recording) the rate at which unit spikes are elicited in layer 2/3 under commonly used conditions of stimulation and recording. We found that spike responses were regularly elicited at the same latencies as field potential peaks and the rising phases of intracellularly recorded synaptic currents, and the incidence of such spiking (the fractional rate of cells spiking versus cells sampled) was sufficient to give this higher-order activity a major role in determining response amplitudes. We then analyzed layer 2/3 waveform characteristics before and after inducing long-term potentiation (LTP) by theta-burst stimulation (TBS) and found that the induction of LTP succeeded only when the initial response included a strong spike component. We further observed that LTP expression was always accompanied by a pronounced enhancement of such components. Our data suggest that, unlike in hippocampal CA1, LTP elicited by TBS in this neocortical paradigm depends upon modification of synaptically driven spike activity, through either enhanced synchronization of unitary responses, the recruitment of additional responding units, or both. This potentiation of the spike response could arise (as previously proposed) through an increase in the efficacy of synapses mediating projection from layer 4 to 2/3, but other mechanisms may also contribute, such as modification of short-range recurrent connections within layer 2/3, which are likely to play an important role in defining local-network cell ensembles.
We have investigated a potential mechanism by which a diet, similar in composition to the typical diet of most industrialized western societies rich in saturated fat and refined sugar (HFS), can influence brain structure and function via regulation of neurotrophins. We show that animals that learn a spatial memory task faster have more brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) mRNA and protein in the hippocampus. Two months on the HFS diet were sufficient to reduce hippocampal level of BDNF and spatial learning performance. Consequent to the action of BDNF on synaptic function, downstream effectors for the action of BDNF on synaptic plasticity were reduced proportionally to BDNF levels, in the hippocampus of rats maintained on the HFS diet between 2 and 24 months. In particular, animals maintained on the HFS diet showed a decrease in levels of: (i) synapsin I mRNA and protein (total and phosphorylated), important for neurotransmitter release; (ii) cyclic AMP-response element-binding protein (CREB) mRNA and protein (total and phosphorylated); CREB is required for various forms of memory and is under regulatory control of BDNF; (iii) growth-associated protein 43 mRNA, important for neurite outgrowth, neurotransmitter release, and learning and memory. Diet-related changes were specific for the hippocampus consequent to its role in memory formation, and did not involve neurotrophin-3, another member of the neurotrophin family. Our results indicate that a popularly consumed diet can influence crucial aspects of neuronal and behavioral plasticity associated with the function of BDNF.
In vivo microdialysis combined with high-performance liquid chromatography and electrochemical detection was used to monitor extracellular glutamate levels in the medial nucleus accumbens of Sprague-Dawley rats during their feeding behaviour. Consumption of a palatable new diet or a diet to which rats were previously exposed caused a decrease in extracellular level of glutamate in the nucleus accumbens during and after feeding. The presentation of an inedible object (a piece of rubber) instead of the expected food caused a marked increase in extracellular glutamate levels. In contrast, if the piece of rubber was presented to rats that did not expect food delivery, the extracellular level of glutamate remained unchanged during the rubber presentation. The feeding-induced decrease in the extracellular glutamate level did not depend on food deprivation and was completely prevented by intraaccumbal infusions through the dialysis probe of 10 mM D,L-threo-beta-hydroxyaspartate (a glutamate uptake inhibitor). Intraaccumbal infusions of 10 microM S-(-)-raclopride L-tartrate (a D2/D3 dopamine receptor antagonist) or 1 microM tetrodotoxin (a voltage-dependent Na(+) channel blocker) also completely reversed the decrease in extracellular glutamate level in response to food intake. The D1/D5 dopamine receptor antagonist SCH-23390 (10 microM) administered into the nucleus accumbens had no significant effect on the feeding-induced decrease in extracellular glutamate level. From the data obtained we suggest that the decrease in the extracellular level of glutamate in the medial nucleus accumbens in response to feeding appears to arise from a temporal increase in glutamate uptake that is probably operated by dopamine inputs to the nucleus accumbens via D2/D3 receptors. Our findings also suggest that the dissociation between the expected biological value of a presented object and the reality might be an important determinant for regulation of glutamate release in this brain area during feeding behaviour.
The aim of the present study was to examine the effect of electrical saphenous nerve stimulation (14 V, 1-10 Hz) on the mechanosensitivity of rat knee joint afferents. The responses to passive joint rotations at defined torque were recorded from slowly conducting knee joint afferent nerve fibres (0.6-20.0 m/s). After repeated nerve stimulation with 1 Hz, the mechanosensitivity of about 79% of the units was significantly affected. The effects were most prominent at a torque close to the mechanical threshold. In about 46% of the examined nerve fibres a significant increase was obtained, whereas about 33% reduced their mechanosensitivity. The sensitisation was prevented by an application of 5 microM phentolamine, an alpha-adrenergic receptor blocker, together with a neuropeptide Y receptor blocker. An inhibition of N-type Ca(2+) channels by an application of 1 microM omega-conotoxin GVIA caused comparable changes of the mechanosensitivity during the electrical stimulation. Electrical nerve stimulation with higher frequencies resulted in a further reduction of the mean response to joint rotations. After stimulation with 10 Hz, there was a nearly complete loss of mechanosensitivity.In conclusion, antidromic electrical nerve stimulation leads to a frequency dependent transient decrease of the mechanosensitivity. A sensitisation was only obtained at 1 Hz, but this effect may be based on the influence of sympathetic nerve fibres.
Neurocan is one of the major chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans expressed in nervous tissues. The expression of neurocan is developmentally regulated, and full-length neurocan is detected in juvenile brains but not in adult brains. In the present study, we demonstrated by western blot analysis that full-length neurocan transiently appeared in adult rat hippocampus when it was lesioned by kainate-induced seizures. Immunohistochemical studies showed that neurocan was detected mainly around the CA1 region although the seizure resulted in neuronal cell degeneration in both the CA1 and CA3 regions of the hippocampus. Double-labeling for neurocan mRNA and glial fibrillary acidic protein demonstrated that many reactive astrocytes expressed neurocan mRNA. The re-expression of full-length neurocan was also observed in the surgically injured adult rat brain. In contrast, the expression of other nervous tissue chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans, such as phosphacan and neuroglycan C, was not intensified but rather was either reduced in the kainate-lesioned hippocampus or in the surgically injured cerebral cortex. These observations indicate that induction of neurocan expression by reactive astrocytes is a common phenomenon in the repair process of adult brain injury, and therefore, it can be postulated that juvenile-type neurocan plays some roles in brain repair.
The present experiments investigate the role of postsynaptic neurons in the morphological differentiation of presynaptic terminals that are formed de novo in the adult CNS. Abducens internuclear neurons in the adult cat were chosen as the experimental model. These neurons project onto the contralateral medial rectus motoneurons of the oculomotor nucleus. Abducens internuclear axon terminals were identified by their anterograde labeling with biocytin and analyzed at the electron microscopic level. To promote the formation of new synapses, two different experimental approaches were used. First, after the selective ablation of medial rectus motoneurons with ricin, abducens internuclear neurons reinnervated the neighboring oculomotor internuclear neurons. Second, after axotomy followed by embryonic cerebellar grafting, abducens internuclear axons invaded the implanted tissue and established synaptic connections in both the molecular and granule cell layer. Boutons contacting the oculomotor internuclear neurons developed ultrastructural characteristics that resembled the control synapses on medial rectus motoneurons. In the grafted cerebellar tissue, abducens internuclear axons and terminals did not resemble climbing or mossy fibers but showed similarities with control boutons. However, labeled boutons analyzed in the granule cell layer established a higher number of synaptic contacts than controls. This could reflect a trend towards the mossy fiber phenotype, although labeled boutons significantly differed in every measured parameter with the mossy fiber rosettes found in the graft. We conclude that at least for the abducens internuclear neurons, the ultrastructural differentiation of axon terminals reinnervating novel targets in the adult brain seems to be mainly under intrinsic control, with little influence by postsynaptic cells.
The aim of our study was to investigate the effect of perinatal asphyxia on developmental apoptosis in the cervical and lumbar spinal cord in the neonatal rat. Perinatal asphyxia was induced by keeping pups at term in utero in a water bath at 37 degrees C for 20 min, followed by resuscitation. Effects of this treatment on developmental apoptosis were studied on postnatal days 2, 5 and 8 using terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase (TdT)-dUTP-biotin nick end labelling (TUNEL) and caspase-3 staining. TUNEL positive cells were identified using double immunostaining. On postnatal day 2 an increase of 215% in TUNEL positive cells was detected (P=0.005) in laminae IV-VII of the lumbar spinal cord of rats which underwent perinatal asphyxia compared to controls. An increase of 55% compared to controls (P=0.03) was seen in laminae I-III of the lumbar spinal cord at postnatal day 8. TUNEL positive cells could be partly identified as microglia cells (ED1 positive) and oligodendrocytes (O4 positive). The effect of perinatal asphyxia on programmed cell death in the neonatal rat spinal cord was mainly observed in the intermediate zone and dorsal horn of the lumbar spinal cord. We conclude that perinatal asphyxia has a pronounced effect on the survival of cells in a specific region of the spinal cord and thus may have a profound effect on the development of motor networks.
Interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) is a pro-inflammatory cytokine that appears in brain and cerebrospinal fluid following peripheral immune challenges and central infections or injury. We examined the consequences of i.c.v. infusion of IL-1beta on mRNA expression of several immune markers and on recruitment of peripheral leukocytes. Awake rats were infused with IL-1beta (100 ng/rat) into the lateral ventricle, and 0.5, 2, 4, 8, 12, or 24 h later, animals were killed and their fresh-frozen brains processed for in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry. Widespread vascular expression of inhibitory factor kappa(B)alpha (Ikappa(B)alpha, marker of nuclear factor kappa(B)alpha transcriptional activity) and inducible cyclooxygenase (COX-2) mRNAs at 0.5-2 h was credited to movement of IL-1beta along ventricular, subarachnoid, and perivascular pathways to target endothelia that express type 1 IL-1 receptor mRNA. Induction of monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 mRNA and intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) immunostaining on endothelia began at 0.5-2 h. Leukocytes (neutrophils and monocytes, recognized by morphology and CD45 and ED1 immunostaining) appeared in meninges and blood vessels at 2-4 h and diffusely penetrated the parenchyma at 8-24 h. The leukocytes strongly expressed IL-1beta and inducible nitric oxide synthase mRNAs. Beginning at 4-12 h, astrocytes (glial acidic fibrillary protein mRNA and protein and c-fos mRNA) and microglia (ionized calcium-binding adaptor molecule 1 mRNA and protein) showed widespread activation. Other rats received i.v. IL-1beta (6 microg/kg). Their brains showed induction of Ikappa(B)alpha and COX-2 mRNAs in the vasculature at 2 h but none of the other sequelae. In summary, our data indicate that IL-1beta in the cerebrospinal fluid reaches its target receptors on the endothelia via perivascular volume transmission, up-regulates ICAM-1, and triggers a targeted leukocyte emigration and widespread glial activation stimulated perhaps by pro-inflammatory molecules expressed by leukocytes. The dramatic difference between i.c.v. and i.v. routes of administration underscores the potency of IL-1beta within the brain to dynamically affect the cellular trafficking component of 'immune privilege'.
The host response to peripheral inflammation induces fever and behavioural depression that are supposed to be centrally mediated by cytokines. Several proinflammatory cytokines activate 'signal transducer and activator of transcription' 3 (STAT3) via gp130-like receptor signaling. In order to determine which cells in the rat brain and pituitary are activated during bacterial inflammation, we investigated in a spatiotemporal manner the activation of STAT3 in these organs following peripheral lipopolysaccharide (LPS) challenge. Under basal conditions, STAT3 immunoreactivity was observed in neurones and some glial cells throughout the brain. Two hours after the administration of LPS, nuclear localisation of STAT3 (hallmark of activation) was observed in zones at the interface between brain and blood or cerebrospinal fluid such as pituitary, ependymal layer, meninges, glia limitans, circumventricular organs and surrounding nervous parenchyma. Four hours after LPS, the nuclear activation of STAT3 propagated to cells located inside the parenchyma (cortex, hypothalamus, corpus callosum and hippocampus among others) and declined 8 h after treatment. Double labelling of STAT3 and glial fibrillary acidic protein identified activated cells in the parenchyma as astrocytes. These data show that STAT3 is activated in the pituitary and in brain astrocytes after a peripheral LPS challenge as demonstrated by immunohistochemistry. Astrocytes may therefore play a key role in the brain response to peripheral inflammation.
Previous studies showed that 3-nitropropionic acid, an irreversible inhibitor of succinate dehydrogenase, produced neuronal death secondary to perturbed intracellular calcium homeostasis. However, the response of intramitochondrial calcium ([Ca(2+)](m)) to 3-nitropropionic acid remains unknown. In this study, we investigated the roles of and relationships among [Ca(2+)](m) overload, mitochondrial reactive oxygen species, and mitochondrial membrane depolarization in 3-nitropropionic acid-induced neuronal death. Following 1 mM 3-nitropropionic acid treatment on primary rat neuronal cultures, there was a gradual increase of [Ca(2+)](m) beginning at 2-4 h post 3-nitropropionic acid application, and a twofold increase of mitochondrial reactive oxygen species at 4 h. These were followed by mitochondrial membrane depolarization at 6-8 h post-treatment. By inhibiting [Ca(2+)](m) uptake, Ruthenium Red attenuated the production of reactive oxygen species, and prevented the 3-nitropropionic acid-induced mitochondrial membrane depolarization and 70% of apoptotic neuronal death (P&lt;0.001). Inhibition of caspase activation attenuated the elevation of [Ca(2+)](m) (P&lt;0.001), indicating that caspase activation plays a role in the elevation of [Ca(2+)](m). MK-801, an antagonist of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) glutamate receptors, prevented 3-nitropropionic acid-induced [Ca(2+)](m) elevation, caspase-3 activation, mitochondrial depolarization, and neuronal death. We conclude that the activation of NMDA glutamate receptor contributes to mitochondrial alterations induced by 3-nitropropionic acid. Inhibition of its activation and [Ca(2+)](m) overload with subsequent mitochondrial membrane depolarization can therefore attenuate the neuronal death induced by 3-nitropropionic acid.
Both human schizophrenia and the effects of isolation rearing in rats produce deficits in hippocampal and cortical functioning. This study was concerned with identifying changes associated with altered neuronal function in the rat hippocampus following isolation rearing. Rats were isolated from weaning at 21 days postnatal for 6 weeks and the hippocampal sensitivity to isolation rearing and stress were studied using c-fos immunohistochemistry and in vivo microdialysis. Isolation rearing altered neuronal activity measured by Fos-like immunoreactivity in the specific brain areas as measured by either increased or reduced expression. Basal neuronal activity in the ventral CA1 hippocampus in isolation-reared rats was notably higher compared to group-reared rats but markedly lower Fos-like immunoreactivity was found in the central and basolateral nuclei of the amygdala. Exposure to stress produced differential effects on neuronal activity in isolation-reared rats between the dorsal and ventral hippocampus, with increased Fos-like immunoreactivity in the dorsal hippocampus but lower Fos-like immunoreactivity in the ventral hippocampus compared to group-reared rats. These results indicate that isolation rearing may alter the relationship between hippocampal neuronal function in the dorsal and ventral hippocampus. An in vivo microdialysis study showed that systemically administered parachloroamphetamine (2.5 mg/kg, i.p.) enhanced extracellular 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) in the dorsal hippocampus in group-reared but not in isolation-reared rats. Restraint stress had no effect on hippocampal extracellular 5-HT in group-reared rats but reduced levels in isolation-reared rats during the period of restraint. Inescapable mild footshock produced a marked increase in extracellular hippocampal 5-HT in group-reared but not isolation-reared rats. Overall the results provide extensive evidence that isolation rearing alters presynaptic 5-HT hippocampal function and that the neuronal response to stress is altered by isolation. Isolation rearing in the rat alters hippocampal function, including the serotonergic system, leading to changes in neurotransmitter systems in other brain areas. These changes may model aspects of human neurodevelopmental disorders such as schizophrenia.
Two radial maze tasks, random foraging and delayed spatial win-shift, have been used to investigate, in rats, the functions and inter-relationships of structures connected through the corticostriatal loops, such as the prelimbic cortex, nucleus accumbens, ventral pallidum and mediodorsal thalamus. The random foraging task is designed to investigate animals' ability to use spatial information to guide foraging on-line. The delayed spatial win-shift task requires, in addition, that animals hold spatially relevant information in working memory across a delay period. The pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus receives direct output from ventral striatal systems and might therefore be expected to share functional properties with them. In the present experiments we have examined the performance of rats bearing bilateral excitotoxic lesions of the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus on both of these tasks. In acquisition tests rats were given bilateral lesions before any training took place, while in retention tests appropriate training to predetermined criterion levels of performance took place before lesions were made. In both tasks, and in both acquisition (no prelesion training) and retention (prelesion training) tests, rats with pedunculopontine lesions made significantly more errors in selecting arms to enter than did control rats. There was no motor impairment present in pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus-lesioned rats - on the contrary, on measures of speed (latency to make first arm choice and the mean time for subsequent choices) pedunculopontine-lesioned rats were slightly faster than control rats. We suggest that the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus shares functional properties with frontostriatal systems and that it forms part of a brainstem-directed stream of striatal outflow different to the cortical re-entrant system via the thalamus.
We studied whether access to a novel running wheel in vivo could reset the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN) in vitro. Golden hamsters were transferred to dim red light at Zeitgeber time (ZT) 4, given their first exposure to a running wheel for 3 h, and killed at either ZT7 or ZT9. Using a brain slice preparation, the SCN firing rate rhythm in vitro was advanced relative to controls only in the slices prepared at ZT9 (phase shift: 2.36+/-0.06 h, n=4) but not ZT7 (-0.26+/-0.16 h, n=4). Transitions to dim red light or brain slice preparation at ZT7 or ZT9 alone do not shift the rhythm. Hamsters with wheels had significantly lower levels of SCN per1 mRNA compared with controls at ZT7, and lower per2 mRNA when examined at ZT9. We conclude that 3 h of novel wheel access appears to require some extended time in vivo in order for the SCN to be reset, even beyond the time when per1 mRNA levels have been altered.
In adults and children, head trauma can have long-term neuropathological and functional consequences. The thalamus is a major site of remote neurodegeneration after cortical damage in adult humans and experimental animals, but less is known about thalamic responses to cortical injury in the immature brain. This study introduces an in vivo model of axotomy/target deprivation-induced neuronal apoptosis in the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus of the thalamus produced by unilateral ablation of the occipital cortex in the immature mouse. We specifically examined whether occipital cortex ablation in the immature brain causes apoptotic death of projection neurons in the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus. After unilateral occipital cortex aspiration, 10-day-old C57BL/6 mice were recovered for up to 28 days. Fluorogold-prelabeled thalamocortical projection neurons were apoptotic at 36-48 h after ablation. The structural progression of apoptosis in the immature lateral geniculate nucleus reveals typical chromatolytic morphology by 18-24 h, followed by cytoplasmic shrinkage and chromatin condensation characteristic of end-stage apoptosis after 36-48 h. Electron microscopy confirmed the presence of apoptosis. This study shows internucleosomal DNA fragmentation and expression of cleaved caspase-3 occurs rapidly, being noted first at 18 h, well before the peak of apoptotic cell death occurring at 36 h after cortical damage in the immature brain. From these data we suggest that axotomy/target deprivation-induced cell death in the immature brain may: (1) differ from that previously reported in adult mice with respect to the time required for progression to cell death; (2) be mediated by caspase-3 activation.
To test whether the location coding of lateral septal cells is dependent on cue constellations, we examined single units in two different recording arenas on alternating days. Repeated recordings of lateral septal neurons in the same arena revealed that matching locations are encoded on separate days by about one third of the cells. The cells typically showed location-selective firing in only one of the two recording arenas and initially showed unrelated patterns when tested in a different recording arena. When tested for a second time in each recording arena, the initially dissimilar patterns were modified towards increased similarity between arenas. Simultaneously recorded hippocampal principal cells showed distinct place fields for each recording arena throughout the recording sequence. These results indicate that the initial reorganization of the lateral septal location coding may occur as a direct consequence of the hippocampal reorganization. Further septal reorganization is then partially independent of established place fields in the CA1 and CA3 area.Location-selective cells in cortical areas that receive projections from hippocampus proper (i.e. the subiculum and the entorhinal cortex) have not been shown to encode differences between recording arenas. Although some characteristics of this generalized coding scheme have also been found for location-selective lateral septal cells, the encoding of context information was generally preserved in the subcortical target cells of projections from the CA1 and CA3 area.
Inhibition of endogenous dopamine release by photo-released dopamine (i.e., autoinhibition) was characterized in the rat caudate-putamen using combined caged-dopamine photolysis and fast-scan cyclic voltammetry. Coronal brain slices (400 microm thick) were perfused with caged-dopamine (150-200 microM in artificial cerebrospinal fluid). Ultraviolet illumination of increasing duration (25-250 ms, approximately 100 microm beam diameter) was focused at the tip of the recording electrode to uncage increasing amounts of exogenous dopamine at the recording sites (0.5-5 microM); a single biphasic electrical stimulus was delivered 0.1-10 s later to induce endogenous dopamine release. The concentrations of both endogenous and exogenous dopamine were determined using voltammetry, thus enabling determination of concentration-dependent inhibition of the endogenous release by the latter. While unaffected by control ultraviolet illumination, endogenous dopamine release was rapidly inhibited by photo-released dopamine in a concentration-dependent manner. Photo-application of 3-5 microM exogenous dopamine inhibited the endogenous release by 90-100% (electrical stimulus applied 1 s after photolysis initiation), an effect prevented by 2 microM sulpiride. The autoinhibition was dependent on the time between photolysis onset and electrical stimulation. Terminal dopamine autoreceptor stimulation led to robust inhibition of endogenous dopamine release with a latency of approximately 200 ms and effective duration of less than 5 s. The percent autoinhibition was a skewed, U-shaped function of photolysis/electrical stimulation intervals with the peak inhibition at 1 s. This study directly demonstrates that autoreceptor-mediated inhibition of terminal dopamine release in caudate-putamen is designed to provide a rapid, robust, yet short-lasting modulation of terminal dopamine release.
Although the pathophysiology of primary dystonias is currently unknown, it is thought to involve changes in the basal ganglia-thalamus-cortex circuit, particularly activity imbalances between direct and indirect striatal pathways. Substance P, a member of the tachykinin family of neuropeptides, is a major component in the direct pathway from striatum to basal ganglia output nuclei. In the present study quantitative autoradiography was used to examine changes in neurokinin-1 (NK-1) and neurokinin-3 (NK-3) receptors in mutant dystonic hamsters (dt(sz)), a well characterized model of paroxysmal dystonia. NK-1 receptors were labeled in 10 dystonic brains and 10 age-matched controls with 3 nM [(3)H]-[Sar(9), Met(O(2))(11)]-SP. NK-3 binding sites were labeled in adjacent sections with 2.5 nM [(3)H]senktide. NK-1 binding was found to be unaltered in 27 brain areas examined. In contrast, NK-3 binding was significantly reduced in layers 4 and 5 of the prefrontal (-46%), anterior cingulate (-42%) and parietal (-45%) cortices, ventromedial thalamus (-42%) and substantia nigra pars compacta (-36%) in dystonic brains compared to controls. The latter effects may be particularly relevant in view of evidence that activation of NK-3 receptors on dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta can increase nigrostriatal dopaminergic activity. Since previous studies indicated that a reduced basal ganglia output in mutant hamsters is based on an overactivity of the direct pathway which also innervates substantia nigra pars compacta neurons, the decreased NK-3 binding could be related to a receptor down-regulation. The present finding of decreased NK-3 receptor density in the substantia nigra pars compacta, thalamic and cortical areas substantiates the hypothesis that disturbances of the basal ganglia-thalamus-cortex circuit play a critical role in the pathogenesis of paroxysmal dystonia.
Environmental enrichment attenuates neurological deficits associated with experimental brain injury. The molecular events that mediate these environmentally induced improvements in function after injury are largely unknown, but neurotrophins have been hypothesized to be a neural substrate because of their role in cell survival and neural plasticity. Furthermore, exposure to complex environments in normal animals increases neurotrophin gene expression. However, following an ischemic injury, environmental enrichment decreases neurotrophin mRNA levels. Whether these contrasting findings are attributable to differences between injured and uninjured animals or are dependent upon the specific type of brain injury has not been determined. We examined the effects of 14 days of environmental enrichment following a lateral fluid percussion brain injury on behavior and gene expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor, its high-affinity receptor, TrkB, and neurotrophin-3 in the rat hippocampus. Environmental enrichment attenuated learning deficits in the injured animals, but neither the injury nor housing conditions influenced neurotrophin/receptor mRNA levels. From these data we suggest that following brain trauma, improvements in learning associated with environmental enrichment are not mediated by alterations in brain-derived neurotrophic factor, TrkB or neurotrophin-3 gene expression.
Our previous work showed that there were marked declines in (125)I-alpha-conotoxin MII labeled nicotinic receptors in monkey basal ganglia after nigrostriatal damage, findings that suggest alpha3/alpha6 containing nicotinic receptors sites may be of relevance to Parkinson's disease. We now investigate whether there are differential changes in the distribution pattern of nicotinic receptor subtypes in the basal ganglia in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned animals compared to controls to better understand the changes occurring with nigrostriatal damage. To approach this we used (125)I-alpha-conotoxin MII, a marker for alpha3/alpha6 nicotinic receptors, and (125)I-epibatidine, a ligand that labels multiple nicotinic subtypes. The results demonstrate that there were medial to lateral gradients in nicotinic receptor distribution in control striatum, as well as ventromedial to dorsolateral gradients in the substantia nigra, which resembled those of the dopamine transporter in these same brain regions. Treatment with MPTP, a neurotoxin that selectively destroys dopaminergic nigrostriatal neurons, led to a relatively uniform decrease in nicotinic receptor sites in the striatum, but a differential effect in the substantia nigra with significantly greater declines in the ventrolateral portion. Competition analysis in the striatum showed that alpha-conotoxin MII sensitive sites were primarily affected after lesioning, whereas multiple nicotinic receptor populations were decreased in the substantia nigra. From these data we suggest that in the striatum alpha3/alpha6 nicotinic receptors are primarily localized on dopaminergic nerve terminals, while multiple nicotinic receptor subtypes are present on dopaminergic cell bodies in the substantia nigra. Thus, if activation of striatal nicotinic receptors is key in the regulation of basal ganglia function, alpha3/alpha6-directed nicotinic receptor ligands may be more relevant for Parkinson's disease therapy. However, nicotinic receptor ligands with a broader specificity may be more important if receptors in the substantia nigra play a dominant role in controlling nigrostriatal activity.
The extra-hypothalamic actions of corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) have been accorded an important role in coordinating responses to stressors and contributing to the consequences of drug abuse. Recent proposals suggest that CRH actions in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis coordinate responses to tonic/unpredictable stressors whereas these actions in the central nucleus of the amygdala coordinate responses to phasic/predictable stressors. We used in situ hybridization histochemistry and site-specific microinjections of a CRH receptor antagonist to study the role of CRH in opiate withdrawal. Rats undergoing opiate withdrawal displayed clear behavioral and autonomic changes accompanied by hyperalgesia and increased plasma corticosterone. In situ hybridization of CRH mRNA revealed significant increases in the central nucleus of the amygdala but not in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis among rats either chronically pre-treated with morphine, given an injection of naloxone, or both (precipitated withdrawal). An increase of CRH mRNA in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus was specific to rats undergoing withdrawal. Intracerebroventricular microinjection of the CRH receptor antagonist, alpha(h)CRH(9-41), reduced the severity of opiate withdrawal. Microinjections of alpha(h)CRH(9-41) into the central nucleus of the amygdala also reduced the severity of withdrawal whereas bed nucleus of the stria terminalis microinjections of alpha(h)CRH(9-41) were without effect. These experiments provide evidence for a role of amygdala, but not bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, CRH in opiate dependence. We propose a specific role for down-regulation of opiate receptor signaling in increased expression of the CRH gene in the amygdala. Moreover, we suggest that the roles accorded to CRH in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis versus amygdala in coordinating responses to stressors may need to be reconsidered to distinguish between external and internal/interoceptive stressors.
Astrocytes are connected by gap junctions, which provide intercellular pathways that allow a direct exchange of ions and small metabolites including second messengers and the propagation of electric currents. The roles of gap junctional communication on whole-cell morphology, cytoskeletal organization, and intercellular communication in astrocytes are not yet clear even in vitro, though there are many studies that have examined the active relation between gap junctions and actin filaments in astrocytes. Here we examined the effects of gap junction inhibitors, which do not interrupt the formation but rather the function of gap junctions, on whole-cell morphology, cytoskeletal organization, and intercellular communication in rat cultured astrocytes. Functional blockade of gap junctions during the formation of an astrocytic monolayer resulted in discordance of actin stress fibers between neighboring cells, even though whole-cell morphology of these cells did not change by such treatment. Mechanical stimulation-induced calcium wave propagation was significantly reduced in these actin-discordance cells even after thorough wash out. Differentiation of astrocytes in the presence of gap junction inhibitors was associated with morphological disarrangement among neighboring cells due to disordered alignment of actin stress fibers between cells.Our results indicate that gap junctional communication enables cell-to-cell coordination of actin stress fibers in astrocytes, thus enhancing intercellular communication through calcium spread.
The p38 member of the mitogen-activated protein kinase superfamily is engaged by phosphorylation in response to environmental stress signals, and may have either permissive or inhibitor roles upon cell proliferation. The cell cycle in the proliferative zone of the retina is tightly controlled and proceeds in synchrony with interkinetic migration of the neuroblast nuclei. We examined the association of p38 kinase activity with the cell cycle in the normal, non-stressed retina of the developing rat, maintained either in vivo or in vitro. Using immunohistochemistry, we show that mitotic profiles in the developing retina are highly enriched for phosphorylated p38. Blockade of p38 activity with the chemical inhibitor SB203580 for 4 h transiently arrested cells at the metaphase-anaphase transition and induced cell death after 20 h. p38 inhibition induced an aberrant mitotic profile, with chromosomes arranged in one side of the cell. The data show that p38 is active during normal mitosis and we suggest that p38 is required for the proper cell cycle progression during metaphase-anaphase transition in retinal neuroblasts.
Exposure of animals to an enriched environment triggers widespread modifications in brain circuitry and function. While this paradigm leads to marked plasticity in animals chronically or acutely exposed to the enriched environment, the molecular mechanisms that enable or regulate such modifications require further characterization. To this end, we have investigated the expression profiles of both mRNA and protein products of a candidate-plasticity gene, nerve growth factor induced-A (NGFI-A), in the brains of rats exposed to increased environmental complexity. We found that NGFI-A mRNA is markedly up-regulated throughout the brains of animals exposed to the enriched environment, but not in the brains of either handled-only or undisturbed control groups. The most pronounced effects were observed in the somatosensory and visual cortices, in layers III and V, while more modest increases were observed in all other cortical layers, with the exception of layer I. A striking NGFI-A mRNA up-regulation was also observed in the striatum and hippocampal formation, notably in the CA1 subfield, of animals exposed to the enriched environment paradigm. Immunocytochemistry was also used to investigate the distribution of NGFI-A protein in response to the environmental enrichment protocol. A marked increase in the number of NGFI-A positive nuclei was identified in the enriched environment condition, as compared to undisturbed and handled-only controls, throughout the rat brain. While the greatest number of NGFI-A immunolabeled neurons was found in cortical layers III and V, up-regulation of NGFI-A protein was also detectable in layers II, IV and VI, in both the somatosensory and visual cortices. NGFI-A immunopositive neurons were also more numerous in the CA1 subfield of the hippocampal formation of animals exposed to the enriched environment, but remained at basal levels in both control groups. Our results implicate NGFI-A as one of the possible early genetic signals that ultimately lead to plastic changes in the CNS.
Previous studies have suggested that activation of nociceptive afferents from the heel recruits a supraspinal mechanism, which is modulated by adrenergic descending inhibition, that augments withdrawal reflexes in medial gastrocnemius (MG) motoneurones. To test this idea, we have studied the temporal evolution of reflexes evoked in MG by electrical stimulation of sural nerve A(beta)-, A(delta)- and C-fibre axons at 1 Hz, in decerebrated rabbits. Reflexes were analysed in three time bands, estimated to accord to afferent drive from A(beta)- (phase 1), A(delta)- (phase 2) and C-fibre (phase 3) inputs. Stimulation of A(delta)- and C-fibres gave significant temporal summation of all reflexes. The alpha(2)-adrenoceptor antagonist RX 821002 ((2-(2,3-dihydro-2-methoxy-1,4-benzodioxin-2-yl)-4,5-dihydro-1-H-imidazole)-HCl) (100 microg intrathecal (i.t.)) potentiated, and the alpha(2)-agonist dexmedetomidine (1-30 microg i.t.) depressed all reflexes per se, but the effects of these drugs on temporal summation were secondary to changes in baseline excitability. When C-fibres were stimulated, the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist dizocilpine (1 mg i.t.) reduced temporal summation of phase 2 and 3 but not phase 1 reflexes. Spinalisation at L1 in the absence of drugs increased phase 2 and 3 reflexes but had no effect on phase 1, whereas spinalisation after RX 821002 resulted in decreased phase 1 responses with no significant change in later phases. Spinalisation in the presence of dizocilpine resulted in small reductions in phase 3 reflexes only. In all cases spinalisation virtually abolished temporal summation. In spinalised animals, dizocilpine selectively reduced late reflexes, and the opioid antagonist naloxone (100 microg i.t.) augmented all reflexes but gave rise to temporal subtraction of reflexes when C-fibres were stimulated.The present experiments have revealed a number of novel and important features of the sural-MG reflex pathway: (i) activity in fine afferent axons augments the reflexogenic potential of all subsequent afferent input, thereby allowing all afferent drive from the sural field to contribute to withdrawal of the heel; (ii) endogenous adrenergic control of this reflex pathway is completely non-selective; (iii) there is a non-adrenergic element of descending inhibition that is selective for the late components of MG reflex responses, and this element is directed particularly against transmission through NMDA receptors; (iv) temporal summation in this reflex is dependent on NMDA receptor-dependent and -independent mechanisms; and (v) this temporal summation is in some way dependent on the integrity of descending pathways.
In addition to its involvement in the transmission of neuropathic pain, the dorsal column system has been shown to have analgesic effects when electrically stimulated. The segmental or supraspinal origin of the analgesia, however, has not been clearly delineated. The aim of this study is to demonstrate the contribution of supraspinal mechanisms to the inhibition of allodynia and hyperalgesia in two different rat models of mononeuropathy. Mononeuropathy was induced, under deep anesthesia, in several groups of rats (n=7 each) following either the chronic constriction injury or the spared nerve injury model. Mechanical and cold allodynia were assessed by the Von Frey monofilaments and by the acetone drop test, respectively. Thermal hyperalgesia was assessed by the paw withdrawal and hot plate tests. Bipolar electrodes for dorsal column stimulation were implanted chronically in all rats on the dorsal aspect of the medulla at the level of the obex. Selective dorsal column bilateral lesions were performed at the upper cervical level in some groups of rats. Dorsal column nuclear stimulation, rostral to selective dorsal spinal lesions, produced strong inhibitory effects on the allodynia and hyperalgesia observed in both models of mononeuropathy. These effects were comparable to those observed following similar stimulations in rats with an intact spinal cord. Our results demonstrate strong inhibitory effects of dorsal column stimulation on neuropathic pain. This inhibition can be attributed to the activation of brainstem pain-modulating centers via rostral projections of the dorsal column nuclei.
Despite their crucial biological relevance, the neural structures differentially activated by the detection of optic flow towards the observer remain to be elucidated. Here, we deploy functional magnetic resonance imaging with normal volunteers to locate the areas differentially activated when motion towards the observer is detected. Motion towards the observer, compared with motion away, showed significant activations (P&lt;0.05, corrected for multiple comparisons), as assessed using statistical parametric mapping, in the lateral inferior occipital cortex bilaterally and in right lateral superior occipital cortex. The areas implicated do not extend into area V5 or subdivisions thereof.Our data suggest that the representations of motion towards the observer implicate perceptual and attentional mechanisms acting at early stages of visual processing in extrastriate cortex. From the standpoint of efficient biological engineering, it makes sense that such crucially important functions as object motion towards the observer would be computed in early visual processing areas. Further studies will be required to determine the extent to which the effects we observed in lateral occipital cortex reflect differential attention to different types of motion, as contrasted with the derivation of explicit representations of motion towards the observer.
The present study analyzed using immunohistochemical labeling the distribution and co-localization of nitric oxide synthase (NOS), cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript peptide (CARTp) and pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide (PACAP) with choline acetyltransferase (ChAT)-immunoreactive fibers in the guinea-pig stellate ganglia. ChAT-immunoreactive fibers make pericellular baskets around virtually all stellate ganglia neurons. Pericellular baskets of NOS, CARTp and PACAP fibers were also present around numerous stellate ganglia neurons. Although all the NOS and PACAP fibers also exhibited ChAT immunoreactivity, only some of the CARTp fibers were ChAT-immunoreactive. No evidence of co-localization of NOS, PACAP and CARTp was obtained.These results indicate that NOS, PACAP and CARTp are present in distinct preganglionic axons innervating the guinea-pig stellate ganglia.
It has long been known that cells in the external granular layer die during postnatal development of the cerebellum. More recent findings indicate that at certain developmental stages, cell death occurs upon activation of an apoptotic program. We show that cerebellar granule cells in rabbits undergo programmed cell death at two different stages of maturation. At postnatal day 5 (P5), granule cell precursors and pre-migratory granule cells in the external granular layer incorporate the S-phase markers 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine and 5-iodo-2'-deoxyuridine with a pattern that is dependent upon the interval between the administration of the two tracers. Within 12-24 h after proliferation a significant number of labeled cells show typical ultrastructural alterations of apoptosis. DNA electrophoresis and cleavage of poly-ADP-ribose polymerase confirm the activation of the apoptotic machinery. After Southern blotting and immunodetection, incorporated 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine is present at the level of low size DNA oligomers as soon as 12 h after cell division. Therefore, this apoptotic phase is intrinsic to external granular layer neurons and independent of synaptic interactions with targets.Apoptotic cells, although fewer in number, are detected also in the internal granular layer and tend to increase from P5 to P10. It seems unlikely that these cells undergo DNA fragmentation in the external granular layer and subsequently migrate to their final destination, considering the data on cell cycle kinetics and the rapid tissue clearance by the glia. Parallel fiber-Purkinje spine synapses are already present in the molecular layer at P5. Therefore, the post-migratory granule cells likely undergo apoptosis as a failure to make proper synaptic contacts in the forming molecular layer. We conclude that the massive apoptosis of pre-migratory cells likely has a role in regulating the size of this rapidly expanding population of pre-mitotic neurons. The less tumultuous cell death of post-mitotic granule cells in the internal granular layer appears to be linked to the formation of the mature synaptic circuitry of the developing cerebellar cortex.
To determine the effect of dopamine on the frequency of spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) in pyramidal cells of layers V-VI of the prelimbic cortex, whole-cell patch-clamp recordings were made from 92 pyramidal cells of layers V-VI of the rat prelimbic cortex. In normal buffer, dopamine 100 microM apparently increased the frequency of spontaneous EPSCs. Decreasing the concentration of dopamine from 100 to 50 microM was accompanied by a decreased effect of dopamine. Further decreasing the dopamine concentration to 10 and 1 microM had no effects on the frequency of spontaneous EPSCs. In the presence of tetrodotoxin or cadmium, the increasing effect of dopamine was eliminated. The increasing effect of dopamine was blocked by the dopamine D1 receptor antagonist SCH23390, but not by the dopamine D2 receptor antagonist sulpiride. The D1 receptor agonist SKF38393 partially mimicked the increasing effect, but the D2 receptor agonist quinpirole did not. The alpha(1)-adrenoceptor antagonist prazosin could not block the increasing effect of dopamine on the frequency of spontaneous EPSCs in most cells tested. The protein kinase A inhibitor H-89 and the protein kinase C inhibitor chelerythrine could antagonize the effect of dopamine. The protein kinase A activator forskolin and the protein kinase C activator phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate could mimic the effect of dopamine. These results indicate that dopamine, presynaptically acting on dopamine D1 receptors, increases the frequency of spontaneous EPSCs via intracellular protein kinase A and protein kinase C signaling pathways in pyramidal cells of layers V-VI of the prelimbic cortex.
It has been established recently that inflammation of the CNS is accompanied by an expression of chemokines within the CNS. Several lines of evidence suggest that chemokines within the CNS initiate and orchestrate the infiltration of the inflamed brain by blood leukocytes. It is also known that endogenous cells of the CNS express functional chemokine receptors, raising the possibility that chemokines may be involved in intercellular signalling between brain cells during brain inflammation. It was shown recently that two chemokine ligands for CXCR3 are induced rapidly in damaged neurons. Little is known yet on the function of neuronal chemokine expression. In order to investigate whether neuronal chemokines contribute to endogenous signalling within the CNS we investigated possible expression of CXCR3 in glial cells. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction experiments and in situ hybridization analysis showed that cultured astrocytes and microglia from both mouse and human sources express CXCR3 mRNA. Protein expression of CXCR3 in both cell types was detected by immunocytochemistry. Moreover, stimulation of cultured glial cells with chemokine ligands for CXCR3 induced intracellular calcium transients and chemotaxis, indicating the functional expression of CXCR3. These results indicate that glial cells in culture functionally express the chemokine receptor CXCR3. Since it has been shown that brain damage rapidly induces expression of neuronal chemokines that activate CXCR3, we suggest that glial CXCR3 might contribute to an intercellular signalling system in the CNS related to pathological conditions.
The effects of deltamethrin on neuronal development and survival were studied using primary mouse hippocampal neurons in culture. Repeated applications of deltamethrin (between 2 nM and 2000 nM) decreased the number of neurons by 16-40%, respectively. Neuronal death was accompanied by an overall decrease of synaptic proteins. Deltamethrin treatment increased the K(+)-stimulated release of amino acid transmitters, GABA and glutamate. The release of the latter might also contribute to neuronal damage. A considerable number of neurons survived treatment with high concentrations of deltamethrin (200-2000 nM) and still displayed characteristics of mature neurons such as synaptic contacts or the expression of members of the Kv1 channel family. When analyzing subtypes of neurons calbindin- as well as somatostatin-positive neurons decreased by 50% after repeated treatment with 2 nM deltamethrin. Under the same conditions neuropeptide Y-positive neurons were up-regulated by 250%.Taken together these data show that deltamethrin at concentrations relevant in human toxicology differentially affects survival of neuronal subtypes by exerting either deleterious or supportive effects. We conclude that deltamethrin disturbs fine-tuning of neuronal efficiency in neuronal networks and might also interfere with the correct wiring during development.
Voltage-gated calcium channels are critical to all aspects of nervous system function, with differing roles within the neuronal somata, at synaptic terminals, and at the neuromuscular junction. We have developed antibodies against two voltage-gated Ca(2+) channel genes from the spiny lobster, Panulirus interruptus, which are homologous to the Drosophila Ca1A (a P/Q-type channel) and Ca1D (an L-type channel) genes. Using these antibodies, we have found that each channel shows unique patterns of localization within the stomatogastric nervous system. Both antibodies stain somata of most of the neurons in the pyloric network to varying degrees. The high degree of variability in staining intensity within individual pyloric cell classes supports the hypothesis of Golowasch et al. (1999a,b) that individual cells can vary in their composition of ionic currents and still have similar firing properties. Anti-Ca1A stains structures in the neuropil, some of which are terminals of axons descending from higher ganglia; however, the majority of these are neither neurites nor blood vessels, but may instead be glial cells or other support elements. Anti-Ca1A labeling was also prominent in the peripheral axons of pyloric motoneurons as they enter muscles, indicating that this channel may be involved in regulation of synaptic transmission onto the foregut muscles. Anti-Ca1D does not label neurites in the neuropil of the stomatogastric ganglion. It stains glial cells in the stomatogastric ganglion in the region of their nuclei, presumably from protein being produced in the perinuclear rough endoplasmic reticulum, en route to the glial cell periphery. While anti-Ca1D labeling is seen in a patchy distribution along peripheral pyloric axons, it was never seen near the muscle. We conclude that the localization of these two calcium channels is tightly controlled within the stomatogastric nervous system, but we cannot conclusively demonstrate that Ca1A and/or Ca1D channels play roles in synaptic integration within the stomatogastric ganglion.
Many psychophysical experiments on perceptual learning in humans show increases of performance that are most probably based on functions of early visual cortical areas. Long-term plasticity of the primary visual cortex has so far been shown in vivo with the use of visual stimuli paired with electrical or pharmacological stimulation at the cellular level. Here, we report that plasticity in the adult visual cortex can be achieved by repetitive visual stimulation. First, spatial receptive field profiles of single units (n=38) in area 17 or 18 of the anesthetized cat were determined with optimally oriented flashing light bars. Then a conditioning protocol was applied to induce associative synaptic plasticity. The receptive field center and an unresponsive region just outside the excitatory receptive field were synchronously stimulated ('costimulation', repetition rate 1 Hz; for 10-75 min). After costimulation the receptive field and its adjacent regions were mapped again. We observed specific increases of the receptive field size, changes of the receptive field subfield structure as well as shifts in response latency. In 37% of the cells the receptive field size increased specifically towards the stimulated side but not towards the non-stimulated opposite side of the receptive field. In addition, changes in the relative strength and size of the on and off subfield regions were observed. These specific alterations were dependent on the level of neuronal activity during costimulation. During recovery, the new responses dropped down to 120% of the preconditioning value on average within 103 min; however, the decay times significantly depended on the response magnitude after costimulation. In the temporal domain, the latency of new responses appeared to be strongly influenced by the latency of the response during costimulation.Twenty-nine percent of the units displayed no receptive field enlargement, most likely because the activity during costimulation was significantly lower than in the cases with enlarged receptive fields. An unspecific receptive field enlargement towards both the stimulated and non-stimulated side was observed in 34% of the tested cells. In contrast to the cells with specifically enlarged receptive fields, the unspecific increase of receptive field size was always accompanied by a strong increase of the general activity level. We conclude that the receptive field changes presumably took place by strengthening of synaptic inputs at the recorded cells in a Hebbian way as previously shown in the visual cortex in vitro and in vivo. The observed receptive field changes may be related to preattentive perceptual learning and could represent a basis of the 'filling in' of cortical scotomas obtained with specific training procedures in human patients suffering from visual cortex lesions.
It has been recognized for some years that a prolonged Ca(2+) elevation that is predictive of impending cell death develops in cultured neurons following excitotoxic insult. In addition, neurons exhibit enhanced sensitivity to excitotoxic insult with increasing age in culture. However, little is known about the processes that selectively regulate the post-insult Ca(2+) elevation and therefore, it remains unclear whether it is associated specifically with age-dependent toxicity.Here, we tested the hypothesis that a group I metabotropic glutamate receptor antagonist selectively modulates the prolonged Ca(2+) elevation in direct association with its protective effects against excitotoxicity. Rat hippocampal cultures of two ages (8-9 and 21-28 days in vitro) were exposed to a 5-min glutamate insult (400 microM in younger and 10 microM in older cultures) sufficient to kill &gt;50% of the neurons, and were treated with vehicle or the specific group I metabotropic glutamate receptor antagonist 1-aminoindan-1,5-dicarboxylic acid (AIDA; 1 mM), throughout and following the insult. Neuronal survival was quantified 24 h after insult. In parallel studies, neurons of similar age in culture were imaged ratiometrically with a confocal microscope during and for 60 min after the glutamate insult. A large post-insult Ca(2+) elevation was present in older but not most younger neurons. The N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, MK-801, blocked the Ca(2+) elevation both during and following the insult. In contrast, AIDA blocked only the post-insult prolonged Ca(2+) elevation in older neurons. Moreover, AIDA was neuroprotective in older but not younger cultures. From these results we suggest that the post-insult Ca(2+) elevation is regulated differently from the Ca(2+) elevation during glutamate insult and is modulated by group I metabotropic glutamate receptors. Further, the prolonged Ca(2+) elevation appears to be directly linked to an age-dependent component of vulnerability.
Learning and memory involve complex changes in neuronal excitability including long-lasting synaptic plasticity of glutamatergic synapses. The observation that the neuropeptide galanin affects performance in a number of behavioural models predicts that galanin should affect synaptic processes underlying learning. The present study in rat and mouse hippocampal slices now demonstrates that galanin inhibits long-term potentiation induced by both tetanic and theta-burst stimulation in both apical and basal dendrites of CA1 pyramidal neurones but does not affect long-term depression. This selective effect on long-term potentiation does not appear to be mediated through inhibition of N-methyl-D-aspartate or metabotropic glutamate receptor function, but likely resides downstream of receptor activation, possibly at the level of the kinase cascade that converts short-term into long-term potentiation. Our results indicate possible mechanisms by which the neuropeptide galanin may act at the molecular level to influence learning and memory in vertebrates.
Evidence for the participation of Rel/NF-kappaB transcription factors in long-term memory has recently been reported in the context-signal learning paradigm of the crab Chasmagnathus, in which a high correlation between long-term memory formation and NF-kappaB activation was observed. Two components of the NF-kappaB pathway in the crab brain have now been identified by cross-immunoreactivity using mammalian antibodies for IkappaB-alpha and IkappaB kinase alpha. Furthermore, IkappaB kinase-like phosphotransferase activity, which was inhibited by the IkappaB kinase inhibitor sulfasalazine, was detected in brain extracts. We have evaluated the effect of sulfasalazine administration on long-term memory tested at 48 h. Amnesia was found when sulfasalazine was administered pre-training and 5 h after training but not at 0 or 24 h after training. Thus, two periods for sulfasalazine-induced amnesia were found in coincidence with the two phases of NF-kappaB activation previously described (immediately and 6 h after training). The cyclooxygenase inhibitor indomethacin did not induce amnesia when administered pre-training. Thus, the possibility that sulfasalazine induces amnesia by means of cyclooxygenase inhibition is unlikely to be tenable. In vivo sulfasalazine inhibition of basal NF-kappaB activity was found between 30 and 45 min after injection, as assessed by electrophoretic mobility shift assay. On the other hand, in vivo sulfasalazine administration 6 h after training inhibited the second phase of training-induced NF-kappaB activation, providing evidence that the sulfasalazine effect on memory is due to a direct effect of the drug on the NF-kappaB pathway. These results provide the first evidence that IkappaB kinase and NF-kappaB activation are necessary for memory formation.
Intracerebral microdialysis was employed in awake freely moving rats to investigate the effects of nociceptin/orphanin FQ receptor ligands on glutamate extracellular levels in the substantia nigra pars reticulata. Nociceptin/orphanin FQ, ineffective at 0.1 microM, induced a prolonged stimulation of nigral glutamate levels at 1 and 10 microM (mean effect of 137+/-9 and 167+/-13%, respectively, of basal values). These effects were prevented by the novel nociceptin/orphanin FQ receptor antagonist [Nphe(1)]nociceptin/orphanin FQ(1-13)NH(2) (100 and 300 microM, respectively) but not by the non-selective opioid receptor antagonist naloxone (10 microM). [Nphe(1)]nociceptin/orphanin FQ(1-13)NH(2) (100 microM) inhibited by itself glutamate outflow (maximal reduction to 71+/-4%) while naloxone was ineffective. The nociceptin/orphanin FQ receptor ligand [Phe(1)psi(CH(2)-NH)Gly(2)]nociceptin/orphanin FQ(1-13)NH(2) also facilitated glutamate outflow at 10 microM (mean effect of 145+/-10%). Intranigral perfusion with tetrodotoxin (1 microM) or with the dopamine D(2) receptor antagonist raclopride (1 microM), failed to affect basal glutamate output and prevented the facilitatory effect of nociceptin/orphanin FQ (10 microM). However, perfusion with the GABA(A) receptor antagonist bicuculline (10 microM) increased local glutamate extracellular levels by itself and attenuated the effect of the peptide. Our data suggest that nociceptin/orphanin FQ increases glutamate extracellular levels in the substantia nigra pars reticulata via activation of nociceptin/orphanin FQ receptors located on non-glutamatergic, possibly dopaminergic and GABAergic, neuronal elements.
Central respiratory neurons, which are acutely axotomized by peripheral nerve grafts implanted at the level of the descending respiratory pathways within the C2 spinal cord, can regenerate their axons within the grafts and still transmit normal physiological messages [Decherchi et al., 1996. Exp. Neurol. 137, 1-14]. The present work investigated the extent to which mature central neurons, acutely or chronically axotomized by a spinal lesion, still maintain the potential to regenerate an axon following post-traumatic nerve grafting within supra-lesional spinal structures and remained functional. This study is an extension of earlier work employing the more chronic lesions, that investigated whether respiratory neurons chronically axotomized by a spinal cord injury can retain the ability to regenerate their axonal process within a post-traumatic peripheral nerve graft. Here implantation was performed into the supra-lesional ventrolateral part of the ipsilateral C2 spinal cord (at the level of the descending respiratory pathways) previously hemisected at the C3 level. In the present study, these post-traumatic peripheral nerve grafts were performed either acutely (group I, n=15, 2.5 h post-injury: acute conditions) or chronically (group II, n=17, 3 weeks; group III, n=6, 3 months: chronic conditions) after the injury.Electrophysiological recording of teased filaments (n=2362) within the post-traumatic peripheral nerve grafts revealed the presence of regenerated nerve fibers with spontaneous unitary impulse traffic (graft units, n=954) in all animals. These graft units were respiratory (n=247) and non-respiratory (n=707). Respiratory discharges originated from central respiratory neurons which remained functional with preserved afferent connections. Except for the group III, post-traumatic C2 peripheral nerve grafts of the groups I and II contained a significantly higher occurrence rate (13.2+/-2% and 11.6+/-1.9%) of respiratory units than C2 spinal peripheral nerve grafts (5.9+/-1.6%) realized without previous CNS injury. The main conclusion of our study is that for a prolonged period of 3 weeks following a spinal cord injury, central respiratory neurons have the potential to remain functional and to regenerate their axonal process within post-traumatic peripheral nerve grafts inserted rostrally to the spinal damage. This indicates that supra-lesional post-traumatic nerve grafts may constitute an efficient delayed strategy for inducing axonal regrowth of chronically axotomized adult central neurons. This suggests that surgical intervention which is not always possible immediately after a spinal cord injury may be satisfactorily carried out after an appropriate delay.
Dopamine transporter knock-out mice display locomotor hyperactivity due to increased extracellular striatal levels of dopamine. Hyperdopaminergic activity within this mesolimbic pathway is involved in the rewarding properties of morphine which are also increased in these mice. Due to the hyperdopaminergia, profound alterations in gene expression for dopamine receptors and neuropeptides are observed in the caudate putamen and nucleus accumbens. Here we investigated (1) the levels of mu-, delta- and kappa-opioid receptors mRNAs in normal mice from gestational day 13 (G13) to adult, and (2) the adaptive changes in the expression of these receptors in mice lacking the dopamine transporter. Our results show that, in wild-type mice, mu-opioid receptor mRNA expression appears early during development (G13) with a homogeneous distribution that evolves towards a patchy distribution in adult. Delta-opioid receptor mRNA appears only at G17 and kappa-opioid receptor mRNA is not observed before adulthood. The levels of delta-opioid receptor mRNA are not modified during development in knock-out mice compared to wild-type, but are increased in adult caudate putamen (+39%, P&lt;0.05) and nucleus accumbens (+66%, P&lt;0.05) at a time when these receptors are believed to be functional. The mu- and kappa-opioid receptors mRNA levels are not modified in the adult knock-out mice. In addition, we observed no differences in any opioid receptor mRNA level in dopamine transporter knock-out mice during prenatal ontogeny compared to wild-type. Our results constitute a detailed neuroanatomical description of opioid receptor mRNA expression from the time of their appearance during prenatal development until adulthood. Furthermore, we show here that chronic constitutive hyperdopaminergia only affects delta-opioid receptor mRNA levels in adult. Even if the propensity of knock-out mice to show increased rewarding properties to morphine seems to be mainly due to the substantial and further increase in hyperdopaminergic activity following drug treatment, the involvement of increased delta-opioid receptor mRNA levels in this behavior remains to be elucidated.
Oxytocin secretion into blood in response to swim stress is differentially regulated by endogenous opioids in virgin and pregnant rats. Here, the influence of endogenous opioids on oxytocin release within the hypothalamic paraventricular and supraoptic nuclei was investigated using microdialysis in virgin and pregnant (day 19-21) rats. Rats fitted with a U-shaped microdialysis probe 3 days before testing were injected with naloxone (5 mg/kg body weight, s.c.) or vehicle (sterile saline) and, 3 min later, were forced to swim (10 min at 19 degrees C). Within the paraventricular nucleus, basal and stimulated oxytocin release did not significantly differ between vehicle-treated virgin and pregnant rats. After naloxone, local oxytocin release in response to swimming was lowered in virgin rats (P&lt;0.01), whereas it was further increased in pregnant rats (P&lt;0.01). Within the supraoptic nucleus, basal oxytocin release was significantly lower in pregnant compared to virgin rats (P&lt;0.01). Forced swimming induced a similar rise in intranuclear oxytocin release in both vehicle-treated virgin and pregnant rats, but peak levels were still higher in the virgin controls. In contrast to the paraventricular nucleus, naloxone did not alter swim-induced oxytocin release within the supraoptic nucleus either in virgin or pregnant rats. Vasopressin release in the paraventricular nucleus was also increased by forced swimming but there was no effect of pregnancy or naloxone on it. In summary, in pregnancy, basal and stress-induced oxytocin release within the paraventricular nucleus was not changed, whereas it was blunted within the supraoptic nucleus. Further, within the paraventricular nucleus the excitatory effect of endogenous opioids on local oxytocin release seen in virgins was switched into an inhibitory action in pregnancy. In contrast, endogenous opioids were evidently not involved in the regulation of swim-induced oxytocin release within the supraoptic nucleus either in virgin or pregnant rats. Thus, pregnancy-related neuroendocrine plasticity also includes site-specific functional alterations in opioid receptor-mediated actions in the hypothalamus.
Antihypertensive therapy not only normalizes the elevated blood pressure but also restores the reduced baroreceptor reflex response associated with hypertension, although the underlying mechanism is not fully understood. We assessed the hypothesis that a reversal of the enhanced basal Fos expression seen during hypertension in nucleus tractus solitarii, the terminal site of baroreceptor afferents, underlies the restoration of baroreceptor reflex sensitivity after antihypertensive treatment. Male adult spontaneously hypertensive or normotensive Wistar-Kyoto rats received for 3 weeks captopril (100 mg/kg/day) added to their drinking water. Evaluated subsequently under pentobarbital anesthesia, captopril-treated spontaneously hypertensive rats exhibited significantly lowered systolic blood pressure and restoration of the sensitivity in baroreceptor reflex control of heart rate to levels comparable with Wistar-Kyoto rats. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction analysis and immunohistochemical evaluation revealed concomitant down-regulation of basal expression in nucleus tractus solitarii of c-fos gene at both mRNA and protein levels. Captopril treatment, on the other hand, elicited no discernible effect on systolic blood pressure, cardiac baroreceptor reflex sensitivity or basal expression of Fos protein at the nucleus tractus solitarii of normotensive Wistar-Kyoto rats. From these findings we suggest that a down-regulation of basal Fos expression in nucleus tractus solitarii may contribute to the restoration of baroreceptor reflex sensitivity in spontaneously hypertensive rats that received antihypertensive treatment such as captopril.
Unilateral intrahippocampal injection of kainic acid in adult mice reproduces most of the morphological characteristics of hippocampal sclerosis (neuronal loss, gliosis, reorganization of neurotransmitter receptors, mossy fiber sprouting, granule cell dispersion) observed in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy. Whereas some neuronal loss is observed immediately after the initial status epilepticus induced by kainate treatment, most reorganization processes develop progressively over a period of several weeks. The aim of this study was to characterize the evolution of seizure activity in this model and to assess its pharmacological reactivity to classical antiepileptic drugs. Intrahippocampal electroencephalographic recordings showed three distinct phases of paroxystic activity following unilateral injection of kainic acid (1 nmol in 50 nl) into the dorsal hippocampus of adult mice: (i) a non-convulsive status epilepticus, (ii) a latent phase lasting approximately 2 weeks, during which no organized activity was recorded, and (iii) a phase of chronic seizure activity with recurrent hippocampal paroxysmal discharges characterized by high amplitude sharp wave onset. These recurrent seizures were first seen about 2 weeks post-injection. They were limited to the injected area and were not observed in the cerebral cortex, contralateral hippocampus or ipsilateral amygdala. Secondary propagation to the contralateral hippocampus and to the cerebral cortex was rare. In addition hippocampal paroxysmal discharges were not responsive to acute carbamazepine, phenytoin, or valproate treatment, but could be suppressed by diazepam. Our data further validate intrahippocampal injection of kainate in mice as a model of temporal lobe epilepsy and suggest that synaptic reorganization in the lesioned hippocampus is necessary for the development of organized recurrent seizures.
Three cDNA homologues of carbonic anhydrase with unknown biological functions have been reported: carbonic anhydrase-related proteins (CA-RP) VIII, X, and XI. In the present study, we produced monoclonal antibodies to these CA-RPs and studied their regional and cellular distributions in the human adult and fetal brains by immunohistochemical analysis. In the adult brain, CA-RP VIII was expressed in the neural cell body spreading to most parts of the brain. CA-RP X was expressed in the myelin sheath and its expression was shown in the cytoplasm of cultured tumor cells by immunocytochemical analysis. CA-RP XI was expressed in the neural cell body, neurites, and astrocytes in relatively limited regions of the brain. In the fetal brain, CA-RP VIII and XI were expressed in the neuroprogenitor cells in the subventricular zone as early as the 84th day of gestation and subsequently detected in the neural cells migrating to the cortex. CA-RP X first appeared in the neural cells in the cortex at the 141st day. In the choroid plexus, the epithelial cells gave CA-RP VIII and XI expressions in both adult and fetal brains. From the findings in the present study on the distribution and the developmental expression of CA-RP VIII, X, and XI in the human brain we suggest that these CA-RPs play roles in various biological process of the CNS.
Although the presence of amyloid deposits is required to establish the neuropathologic diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease, from a clinical point of view, a direct contribution of these cerebral lesions to cognitive deficits is still controversial. The development and standardization of quantitative and accurate biochemical and neuropathologic methods may be critical to improve the postmortem diagnosis and clinicopathologic correlations. Here, we used a point counting method, based on the Cavalieri principle, to estimate the volume occupied by amyloid deposits in a discrete region of the prefrontal cortex and in the hippocampal formation, in brains from patients with cognitive status ranging from normal to severely demented. We demonstrate that the assessment of the total volume occupied by the amyloid deposits in the entorhinal cortex and subiculum can be considered an effective predictor of dementia severity. We also reveal the existence of a high degree of regional and interindividual heterogeneity in amyloid distribution and relative volume. Our data suggest that even though a correlation was observed between the stereologic point counting method and a non-stereologic random field thresholding approach, in most cases non-stereologic methods may not provide adequate samples of the tissue and may lead to unreliable estimates of amyloid burden due to the inhomogeneous distribution of amyloid in the cerebral cortex and the large variability among brains.
The Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger (NCX) participates in the regulation of neuronal Ca(2+) homeostasis and is also believed to be involved in the neuronal responses to hypoxia. However, there are very limited data on how NCX mRNA and protein expression are regulated during brain development. In the present study, we sought to elucidate the developmental expression of NCX1 and NCX2 in the rat cortex from late fetal to adult stages using reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and western blot assays. The primers for NCX1 mRNA targeted the alternative splicing domain to allow differentiation between NCX1 splice variants. Our results show that: (1) only two NCX1 mRNA splice variants (NCX1.5 and NCX1.4) are present in the cortex and their expression is age-dependent; (2) total NCX1 mRNA levels are low in fetal tissue, reach maximum density at postnatal day 8 and substantially decline with further maturation; (3) NCX2 mRNA density is significantly greater than total NCX1 mRNA for all ages and increases markedly during maturation from fetus/neonate to adult; and (4) NCX1 protein expression is lowest in late fetal cortex and reaches maximum levels after 2 weeks postnatally, even though expression levels are not significantly different between newborn and adult animals. Also, we found a similar NCX1 protein trend in the subcortical and cerebellar regions during development. From these data we suggest that NCX1 and NCX2 are differentially expressed in the cortex with a predominance of NCX2 levels during postnatal development. We speculate that the developmental increase in NCX2 expression is responsible for the overall increase in Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchange capacity during maturation.
Ca(2+)-signalling plays a major role in regulating all aspects of neuronal function. Different types of neurons exhibit characteristic differences in the responses to Ca(2+)-signals. Correlating with differences in Ca(2+)-response are expression patterns of Ca(2+)-binding proteins that often serve as markers for various types of neurons. For example, in the cerebral cortex the EF-hand Ca(2+)-binding proteins parvalbumin and calbindin are primarily expressed in inhibitory interneurons where they influence Ca(2+)-dependent responses. We have now identified a new family of proteins called NECABs (neuronal Ca(2+)-binding proteins). NECABs contain an N-terminal EF-hand domain that binds Ca(2+), but different from many other neuronal EF-hand Ca(2+)-binding proteins, only a single EF-hand domain is present. At the C-terminus, NECABs include a DUF176 motif, a bacterial domain of unknown function that was previously not observed in eukaryotes. In rat at least three closely related NECAB genes are expressed either primarily in brain (NECABs 1 and 2) or in brain and muscle (NECAB 3). Immunocytochemistry revealed that NECAB 1 is restricted to subsets of neurons. In cerebral cortex, NECAB 1 is highly and uniformly expressed only in layer 4 pyramidal neurons, whereas in hippocampus only inhibitory interneurons and CA2 pyramidal cells contain NECAB 1. In these neurons, NECAB 1 fills the entire cytoplasm similar to other EF-hand Ca(2+)-binding proteins, and is not concentrated in any particular subcellular compartment. We suggest that NECABs represent a novel family of regulatory Ca(2+)-binding proteins with an unusual domain structure and a limited expression in a subclass of neurons.
The effects of the dopamine D(3) receptor, a putative autoreceptor, have been investigated by comparing behavioral and neurochemical properties of wild-type mice and mice with a genetic deletion of the D(3) receptor. The D(3) knock-out mice were modestly hyper-responsive to a novel environment relative to wild-type mice, and, consistent with this, quantitative in vivo microdialysis revealed elevated striatal dopamine extracellular levels. The dynamic actions of autoreceptors on electrically evoked dopamine release were examined in striatal brain slices from these animals and monitored with fast scan cyclic voltammetry at carbon-fiber microelectrodes. Quinpirole, a dopamine receptor agonist with potency at both D(2) and D(3) receptors, inhibited evoked dopamine in a dose-dependent manner with a slightly higher dose required in the knock-out animals (EC(50) of 60+/-10 nM in wild-type animals and 130+/-40 in D(3) knock-out animals; both curves had a Hill slope near 2). Dopamine synthesis inhibition with alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine caused released dopamine levels to decrease in each genotype. However, regulation of secretion by autoreceptors was still operant. Dose-response curves to quinpirole were unchanged in D(3) knock-out tissue, but secretion-regulated release exhibited a Hill slope decreased to 1 in the wild-type animals. In both genotypes, similar quinpirole-evoked increases in uptake rate were evident following synthesis inhibition. These data are consistent with the D(3) receptor having a small but significant role as a dopamine autoreceptor that partially regulates secretion, but not synthesis, in the caudate-putamen.
The distribution of major histocompatibility complex class II (MHC II)-positive non-neuronal cells and T-lymphocytes was examined immunohistochemically in dorsal root ganglia (DRGs) up to 12 weeks following transection of one sciatic or lumbar spinal nerve in adult rats. Unlike within the brain, MHC II immunopositive (+) and T-cells are normally present within DRGs. After nerve transection, MHC II+ cell density increased (by about four times after each lesion) in DRGs projecting into lesioned nerves. Subsequently the number declined after sciatic but not spinal nerve transection. MHC II+ cells did not contain glial markers, even when these were up-regulated after the lesions. Initially, MHC II+ cells lay outside the satellite glia but, by 11 weeks, they had moved through them to lie against the somata. T-cells invaded the lesioned DRGs earlier than the MHC II+ cells. They achieved greater numbers after spinal (30 x control) than after sciatic (12 x control) nerve transection. They also increased in undamaged ganglia adjacent to the spinal nerve injury. T-cell density progressively declined after spinal but not sciatic nerve transection. Both cell types appeared to invade the DRGs initially through blood vessels and the meninges, particularly near the subarachnoid angle. At later stages, occasional neurones had dense aggregations of T-cell receptor+ and MHC II+ cells associated with them. We conclude that the magnitude and time course of changes in MHC II expression and T-cell numbers in lesioned DRGs differ from the responses within motor nuclei after axotomy. The influx of inflammatory cells may contribute to neurone survival in the short term. Their long-term presence has implications for patients. These cells have the potential to release excitatory cytokines that may generate ectopic impulse activity in sensory neurones after nerve injury and so may play a role in the generation of chronic neuropathic pain.
The brain noradrenergic system is activated by stress, and modulates the activity of forebrain regions involved in behavioral and neuroendocrine responses to stress, such as the lateral bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BSTL). This region of the limbic forebrain receives dense noradrenergic innervation, and has been implicated in both anxiety and regulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis. We hypothesized that stress-induced release of norepinephrine in the BSTL modulates anxiety-like behavioral responses to stress and activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal stress axis. Using microdialysis, we showed that release of norepinephrine was increased in the BSTL of male Sprague-Dawley rats during immobilization stress. In the next experiment, we then microinjected noradrenergic antagonists into the BSTL immediately prior to acute immobilization stress to examine noradrenergic modulation of behavioral stress reactivity. Either the alpha(1)-receptor antagonist benoxathian, or a cocktail of beta(1)- and beta(2)-receptor antagonists (betaxolol+ICI 118,551) blocked the anxiety-like reduction in open-arm exploration on the elevated plus-maze, but not the reduction in social behavior induced in the social interaction test. In a third experiment, benoxathian reduced plasma levels of adrenocorticotropic hormone following stress, but beta-receptor antagonists had no effect. From these results we suggest that stress-induced norepinephrine release acts on both alpha(1)- and beta-receptors in the BSTL to facilitate anxiety-like behavioral responses on the plus-maze but not the social interaction test, and modulates hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis activation via alpha(1)-receptors only. Together with previous results in which adrenergic antagonists in central amygdala attenuated behavioral responses on the social interaction test but not the plus-maze, these observations suggest the two behavioral tests measure different dimensions of stress reactivity, and that norepinephrine facilitates different components of the stress response by region- and receptor-specific mechanisms.
Peripheral infections in mammals are characterised by local, systemic and CNS effects. The latter give rise to sickness behaviour. Pro-inflammatory cytokines such as interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) are thought to be important mediators of this neuro-immune signalling (Cartmell et al., 1999). There is anecdotal evidence suggesting that peripheral infections in patients with Alzheimer's disease have more severe behavioural consequences than those in otherwise healthy elderly subjects, and it is well known that brain microglia are activated in the elderly and in Alzheimer's disease (McGeer et al., 1987). Using ME7-induced murine prion disease as a model of chronic neurodegeneration that displays chronic microglial activation, and the intra-peritoneal injection of bacterial lipopolysaccharide to mimic a peripheral infection, we have shown that the temperature and activity responses of animals with pre-clinical prion disease were exaggerated compared with controls, and that this was associated with a significant increase in brain levels of IL-1beta. We hypothesise that prior priming of microglia by the degenerative process, followed by further activation through signalling from the periphery, resulted in increased brain IL-1beta synthesis and the consequent acute sickness behavioural responses. These findings demonstrate an interaction between peripheral infection and pre-existing CNS inflammation and suggest that further stimulation of an already primed microglial population by a peripheral infection may drive disease progression in chronic inflammatory conditions such as Alzheimer's disease and prion disease.
Gene transfer into CNS is critical for potential therapeutic applications as well as for the study of the genetic basis of neural development and nerve function. Unfortunately, lipid-based gene transfer to CNS cells is extremely inefficient since the nucleus of these post-mitotic cells presents a significant barrier to transfection. We report the development of a simple and highly efficient lipofection method for primary embryonic rat hippocampal neurons (up to 25% transfection) that exploits the M9 sequence of the non-classical nuclear localization signal of heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein A1 for targeting beta(2)-karyopherin (transportin-1). M9-assistant lipofection resulted in 20-100-fold enhancement of transfection over lipofection alone for embryonic-derived retinal ganglion cells, rat pheochromocytoma (PC12) cells, embryonic rat ventral mesencephalon neurons, as well as the clinically relevant human NT2 cells or retinoic acid-differentiated NT2 neurons. This technique can facilitate the implementation of promoter construct experiments in post-mitotic cells, stable transformant generation, and dominant-negative mutant expression techniques in CNS cells.
It has become apparent that galanin as well as proopiomelanocortin-derived peptides, such as beta-endorphin, play an important role in the hypothalamic circuitry that regulates neuroendocrine functions and appetite behavior. We have recently shown that GalR1 and GalR2 galanin receptor mRNAs are expressed in proopiomelanocortin neurons of the arcuate nucleus, suggesting a direct modulatory action of galanin on the proopiomelanocortin neuronal system. In the present study, we investigated the effect of galanin on beta-endorphin release and proopiomelanocortin mRNA expression from male rat mediobasal hypothalamic fragments incubated ex vivo. Galanin induced a decrease of spontaneous beta-endorphin release within the first 30-60 min of incubation and this effect was blocked by the galanin receptor antagonist galantide. Co-incubation of galanin with FK-506 (tacrolimus), a calcineurin inhibitor, suppressed the inhibitory effect of galanin on beta-endorphin release, suggesting that calcineurin is involved in the galanin-evoked decrease in beta-endorphin release. Measurement of beta-endorphin levels in the tissues at the end of the incubation period (120 min) revealed that galanin caused a two-fold increase of beta-endorphin peptide concentration in the mediobasal hypothalamic tissues. Concurrently, galanin induced an increase in the mean density of silver grains overlying proopiomelanocortin neurons after 60 min of incubation, an effect antagonized by galantide. Finally, reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction analysis revealed that the mRNAs for the three galanin receptor subtypes (i.e. GalR1, GalR2, and GalR3) were expressed in the incubated mediobasal hypothalamic fragments. Taken as a whole, our results indicate that galanin plays a modulatory role on proopiomelanocortin neurons and this interrelation contributes to the elucidation of the neural circuitry that controls, among others, gonadotropin-releasing hormone function.
Injection of manganese (Mn(2+)), a paramagnetic tract tracing agent and calcium analogue, into the high vocal center of starlings labeled within a few hours the nucleus robustus archistriatalis and area X as observed by in vivo magnetic resonance imaging. Structures highlighted by Mn(2+) accumulation assumed the expected tri-dimensional shape of the nucleus robustus archistriatalis and area X as identified by classical histological or neurochemical methods. The volume of these nuclei could be accurately calculated by segmentation of the areas highlighted by Mn(2+). Besides confirming previously established volumetric sex differences, Mn(2+) uptake into these nuclei revealed new functional sex differences affecting Mn(2+) transport. A faster transport was observed in males than in females and different relative amounts of Mn(2+) were transported to nucleus robustus archistriatalis and area X in males as compared to females. This new in vivo approach, allowing repeated measures, opens new vistas to study the remarkable seasonal plasticity in size and activity of song-control nuclei and correlate neuronal activity with behavior. It also provides new insights on in vivo axonal transport and neuronal activity in song-control nuclei of oscines.
Somatostatin is implicated in a number of physiological functions in the CNS. These effects are elicited through the activation of at least five receptor subtypes. Among them, sst2 receptors appear the most widely expressed in the cortex and hippocampal region. However, the specific role of this somatostatin receptor subtype in these regions is largely undetermined. In this study, we investigated the role of the sst2 receptor in the hippocampus using mice invalidated for the sst2 gene (sst2 KO mice). Complementary experimental approaches were used. First, mice were tested in behavioral tests to explore the consequences of the gene deletion on learning and memory. Spatial discrimination learning in the radial maze was facilitated in sst2 KO mice, while operant learning of a bar-pressing task was slightly altered. Mice were then processed for electrophysiological study using the ex vivo hippocampal slice preparation. Extracellular recordings in the CA1 area showed an enhancement in glutamatergic (AMPA and NMDA) responses in sst2 KO mice which displayed an increase in the magnitude of the short-term potentiation and long-term depression. In contrast, long-term potentiation was not significantly altered. Taken together, these data demonstrate that somatostatin, acting via sst2 hippocampal receptors, may contribute to a global decrease in glutamate efficiency and consequently alter glutamate-dependent plasticity and spatial learning.
NFH-LacZ transgenic mice are characterized by expression of a non-endogenous fusion protein between a truncated form of mouse NFH (neurofilament of heavy molecular weight) and the complete Escherichia coli beta-galactosidase protein. These transgenic mice were compared to their respective controls on two background strains (C3H and FVB) in several sensorimotor tests. NFH-LacZ mice were deficient in tests requiring balance and equilibrium in a manner generally independent of genetic background. In particular, NFH-LacZ mice fell more quickly than controls from two stationary beams and had fewer rears in an open-field. The transgenic mice were also impaired during the initial trials of sensorimotor learning on the rotorod. We conclude that despite the absence of overt signs of sensorimotor weakness in their home cage, the disruption of the NFH gene, causing neurofilament accumulations in the cell body and diminished axonal calibers of motoneurons, is sufficient to cause motor deficits that resemble the early stages of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.
Nitric oxide synthase is expressed abundantly in the spinal cord, and nitric oxide (NO) has been shown to play important roles in the central mechanism of inflammatory hyperalgesia. However, the expression and function of the NO receptor, soluble guanylate cyclase, is not fully understood in this processing at the spinal cord level. In the present study, we report that the soluble guanylate cyclase alpha(1) subunit but not the beta(1) subunit was expressed in rat spinal cord, particularly in the dorsal horn. We showed that intrathecal administration of a selective inhibitor of soluble guanylate cyclase, 1H-[1,2,4]oxadiazolo[4,3-a]quinoxalin-1-one, produced a significant anti-nociception demonstrated by the decrease in the number of flinches and shakes in the formalin-induced inflammatory pain model. This was accompanied by a marked reduction in formalin-induced c-fos expression in the spinal cord. During formalin-induced long-lasting inflammation, we found that the expression of the alpha(1) subunit of soluble guanylate cyclase was dramatically increased in the lumbar spinal cord on the second and fourth days after formalin injection into the dorsal side of a hind paw. Intraperitoneal pretreatment with an N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist, dizocilpine maleate (MK-801), and a neuronal NO synthase inhibitor, 7-nitroindazole, not only significantly blocked formalin-induced secondary thermal hyperalgesia but also suppressed formalin-produced increase in the alpha(1) subunit of soluble guanylate cyclase in the spinal cord. The present results indicate that peripheral inflammation not only initially activates but also later up-regulates soluble guanylate cyclase expression via the NMDA receptor-NO signaling pathway, suggesting that soluble guanylate cyclase might be involved in the central mechanism of formalin-induced inflammatory hyperalgesia in the spinal cord.
It is generally believed that haloperidol exerts its motor side effects and therapeutic effects mainly by antagonizing dopamine D(2) receptors in the striatum and the nucleus accumbens, respectively. Several neurotransmitters/modulators, including glutamate, acetylcholine, adenosine and histamine, affect dopaminergic activity in these centers. We have recently shown that N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated modulation of haloperidol-induced c-fos expression differs in functionally specific regions of the striatum and the nucleus accumbens. In the present study, the entire striatum and the nucleus accumbens were comprehensively examined for the pattern of modulation of haloperidol-induced c-fos expression by adenosine A(2), histamine H(3) and muscarinic receptor antagonists. Blockade of muscarinic and H(3) receptors resulted in a profound suppression of haloperidol-induced c-fos expression in the dorsolateral part of the striatum. In addition, the H(3) receptor antagonist suppressed the effects of haloperidol in the ventrolateral aspect of the striatum and the rostral parts of the medial striatum. Muscarinic receptor antagonists suppressed haloperidol-induced c-fos expression throughout the shell and in the mid-level of the core of the nucleus accumbens while A(2) and H(3) receptor antagonists did not.We found that the muscarinic and H(3) receptor antagonists suppress the induction of c-fos by haloperidol in the dorsolateral aspect of the striatum, an area implicated in the development of extrapyramidal motor symptoms following chronic haloperidol treatment. By contrast, haloperidol-induced c-fos expression in the nucleus accumbens, an area implicated in the therapeutic effects of haloperidol, was suppressed by the muscarinic receptor antagonist, but not by the H(3) receptor antagonist. Therefore we conclude that H(3) receptor modulation may provide a useful therapeutic target in future efforts to minimize neuroleptic-induced motor side effects.
The pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus has connections with sites in both dorsal and ventral striatum, and a number of studies have suggested that it has a role in reward-related behaviour. The present experiment aimed to investigate the perception of reward in pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus-lesioned rats responding for food under a progressive ratio schedule, which measures willingness to work for a given reward. Rats were trained on a progressive ratio-5 schedule for food reward, then given ibotenic acid or sham lesions of the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus. Their performance under this schedule was examined again following recovery from surgery. Compared with sham-lesioned rats, those with lesions of the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus showed significantly reduced breaking points and significantly longer post-reinforcement pauses. However, there was no difference between the groups in their latency to collect food pellets once earned, suggesting that pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus excitotoxin and sham-lesioned rats were equally motivated by the presence of food. Excitotoxin-lesioned rats made significantly more responses on the control lever and more entries to the food hopper as progressive ratio increment increased, but did not differ from controls when the schedule requirement was low. These results are interpreted as indicating no global loss of motivation, since lesioned rats performed normally at low schedule requirements, and were as fast as controls to collect pellets. But as the schedule requirement increased, excitotoxin-lesioned rats showed reductions in responding on the active lever (that is, a reduction in breaking point) and an increase in inappropriate responses towards the food hopper and the control lever.We consider these data to indicate that the behavioural deficits in pedunculopontine-lesioned rats arise not from a sensory or hedonic change, but from alteration in the control of motor output.
Previous research has revealed an antinociceptive (analgesic) effect of interleukin-2 (IL-2) in central and peripheral nervous systems. Unfortunately IL-2 is very short-lived in vivo, so it is impractical to apply IL-2 for analgesia in clinic. This study was performed to evaluate the effect of intrathecal delivery of human IL-2 gene on rat chronic neuropathic pain induced by chronic constriction injury of the sciatic nerve. Human IL-2 cDNA was cloned into pcDNA3 containing a cytomegalovirus promoter. The paw-withdrawal latency induced by radiant heat was used to measure the pain threshold. The results showed that recombinant human IL-2 had a dose-dependent antinociceptive effect, but that this only lasted for 10-25 min. The pcDNA3-IL-2 or pcDNA3-IL-2/lipofectamine complex in contrast also showed dose-dependent antinociceptive effects, but these reached a peak at day 2-3 and were maintained for up to 6 days. Liposome-mediated pcDNA3-IL-2 produced a more powerful antinociceptive effect than pcDNA3-IL-2 alone. The paw-withdrawal latencies were not affected by control treatments such as vehicle, lipofectamine, pcDNA3, or pcDNA3-lipofectamine. In the experimental groups, human IL-2 mRNA was detected by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction in the lumbar spinal pia mater, dorsal root ganglion, sciatic nerve, and spinal dorsal horn, but not in gastrocnemius muscle. The expressed IL-2 profile detected by western blot coincided with its mRNA profile except it was present in the spinal dorsal horn at a higher level. Furthermore, human IL-2 assayed by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in cerebrospinal fluid could still be detected at day 6, but lower than day 3. The antinociceptive effect of pcDNA3-IL-2 could be blocked by naloxone, showing some relationship of the antinociceptive effect produced by IL-2 gene to the opioid receptors. It is hoped that the new delivery approach of a single intrathecal injection of the IL-2 gene described here may be of some practical use as a part of a gene therapy for treating neuropathic pain.
Studies have shown that 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) plays an important role in the descending pathway of pain modulation from brainstem to the spinal cord. Using selective 5-HT receptor antagonists, the present study investigated which type of 5-HT receptor(s) in the spinal cord was involved in the morphine-induced anti-nociception in intact rats, in rats with nerve injury and in rats with inflammation. The hindpaw withdrawal latencies decreased significantly after sciatic nerve injury and hindpaw inflammation compared with intact rats. Intrathecal administration of 25 or 10 microg of the selective 5-HT(1A) recepter antagonist spiroxatrine, but not 1 microg of spiroxatrine, significantly blocked the increased hindpaw withdrawal latencies to thermal and mechanical stimulation induced by intra-periaqueductal gray injection of 1 microg of morphine in intact rats. Intrathecal injection of the 5-HT(2) receptor antagonist RS 102221 and the 5-HT(3) receptor antagonist MDL 72222 had no significant effects on the increased hindpaw withdrawal latencies to both noxious stimulations induced by intra-periaqueductal gray injection of morphine. Furthermore, intrathecal administration of spiroxatrine, but not RS 102221 nor MDL 72222, significantly attenuated the increased hindpaw withdrawal latencies induced by intra-periaqueductal gray administration of morphine in rats with nerve injury and in rats with inflammation. The results demonstrate that the 5-HT(1A) receptor, not 5-HT(2) nor 5-HT(3) receptor, plays an important role in the descending pathway of anti-nociception from the brainstem to the spinal cord in intact rats, in rats with nerve injury and in rats with inflammation.
Testosterone causes growth of many pelvic ganglion cells at puberty and their maintenance during adulthood. Here we have focused on two populations of pelvic ganglion cells that project to the rat vas deferens: noradrenergic neurons that innervate the smooth muscle and synthesize neuropeptide Y, and cholinergic neurons that primarily innervate the mucosa and contain vasoactive intestinal peptide. We have assessed the muscle innervation after pre- or postpubertal castration, using immunohistochemistry to determine axon density and radioimmunoassay to quantify levels of neuropeptides in tissue extracts. Our results show that androgen deprivation in each period causes substantial effects. Noradrenergic axons in the muscle increase in density after castration, partly due to organ size being smaller than age-matched controls. However, when corrected for target size, there is an overall decrease in total number of axons. This implies that androgen exposure at puberty has a direct effect on neurons to ensure that the adult pattern of innervation is attained, and that this is not simply by matching terminal field to target size. Similar effects of pre- and postpubertal castration imply that continued exposure to testosterone is necessary to maintain normal target innervation. Castration in both time periods increased the density of axons containing vasoactive intestinal peptide, however the effects of castration on the total number of these axons in the muscle were more variable. The concentration of vasoactive intestinal peptide increased substantially following either pre- or postpubertal castration although absolute amounts per vas deferens were decreased. Effects on neuropeptide Y concentration were less pronounced but the total amount per vas deferens was decreased after pre- or postpubertal castration. Our study shows that the action of testosterone (or a metabolite) on a pelvic ganglion cell soma is likely to reflect a change in its terminal field, but that these effects are not mediated simply by testosterone influencing the size of its target organ.
We have previously shown that a single exposure of adult rats to a severe emotional stressor such as immobilization is able to exert a long-term desensitization of the response of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis to the same stimulus when applied days to weeks later. Surprisingly, the intensity of the effect increased with time elapsed between the two exposures, suggesting that we are dealing with a new type of stress-associated phenomenon. Taking into account the clinical importance of tolerance to endotoxin, in the present study we assessed whether a single exposure to an immunological stressor such as lipopolysaccharide can induce effects similar to those of immobilization. Rats injected with lipopolysaccharide (1 mg/kg) showed a reduction of the response of the corticotropin-releasing factor mRNA in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus after a new lipopolysaccharide injection 4, but not 2 weeks later. In an additional experiment using a different blood sampling procedure, adrenocorticotropin hormone, corticosterone and tumor necrosis factor-alpha responses were reduced approximately to the same extent by previous experience with lipopolysaccharide either 1 or 4 weeks before. Our data suggest that a previous single exposure to lipopolysaccharide induces a long-lasting tolerance of the HPA axis that likely involves some kind of learning-like brain plasticity.
We studied the auditory evoked magnetic fields (AEFs) in response to pure tones especially at very high frequencies (from 4000 Hz to 40,000 Hz). This is the first systematic study of AEFs using tones above 5000 Hz, the upper audible range of humans, and ultrasound. We performed two experiments. In the first, AEFs were recorded in 12 subjects from both hemispheres under binaural listening conditions. Six types of auditory stimulus (pure tones of five different frequencies: 4000 Hz, 8000 Hz, 10,000 Hz, 12,000 Hz, 14,000 Hz, and a click sound as the target stimulus) were used. In the second experiment, we used 1000 Hz, 15,000 Hz, and two ultrasounds with frequencies of 20,000 Hz and 40,000 Hz. The subjects could detect all stimuli in the first experiment but not the ultrasounds in the second experiment. We analyzed N1m, the main response with approximately 100 ms in peak latency, and made the following findings. (1) N1m responses to the tones up to 12,000 Hz were clearly recorded from at least one hemisphere in all 12 subjects. N1m for 14,000 Hz was identified in at least one hemisphere in 10 subjects, and in both hemispheres in six subjects. No significant response could be identified to ultrasounds over 20,000 Hz. (2) The amplitude of the N1m to the tones above 8000 Hz was significantly smaller than that to 4000 Hz in both hemispheres. There was a tendency for the peak latency of the N1m to be longer for the tones with higher frequencies, but no significant change was found. (3) The equivalent current dipole (ECD) of the N1m was located in the auditory cortex. There was a tendency for the ECD for the tones with higher frequencies to lie in more medial and posterior areas, but no significant change was found. (4) As for the interhemispheric difference, the N1m amplitude for all frequency tones was significantly larger and the ECDs were estimated to be located more anterior and medial in the right hemisphere than the left. The priority of the right hemisphere, that is the larger amplitude, for very high frequency tones was confirmed. (5) The orientation of the ECD in the left hemisphere became significantly more vertical the higher the tones. This result was consistent with previous studies which revealed the sensitivity of the frequency difference in the left hemisphere. From these findings we suggest that tonotopy in the auditory cortex exists up to the upper limit of audible range within the small area, where the directly air-conducted ultrasounds are not reflected.
The amygdala plays an important role in the interpretation of emotionally significant stimuli and has strong projections to brainstem regions regulating muscle tone and sleep. Cataplexy, a symptom of narcolepsy, is a loss of muscle tone usually triggered by sudden, strong emotions. Extracellular single-unit recordings were carried out in the amygdala of narcoleptic dogs to test the hypothesis that abnormal activity of a subpopulation of amygdala neurons is linked to cataplexy. Of the 218 cells recorded, 31 were sleep active, 78 were active in both waking and rapid-eye-movement sleep, 88 were maximally active during waking, and 21 were state independent. Two populations of cells showed a significant change in activity with cataplexy. A population of sleep active cells localized to central and basal nucleus increased discharges prior to and during cataplexy. A population of wake active cells localized to the cortical nucleus decreased activity prior to and during cataplexy. We hypothesize that these cell populations have a role in mediation or modulation of cataplexy through interactions with meso-pontine regions controlling atonia. The anticholinesterase physostigmine, at doses which increased cataplexy, did not alter the activity of the cataplexy-related cells or of other amygdala cells, suggesting that its effect on cataplexy is mediated 'downstream' of the amygdala. The alpha-1 blocker prazosin, at doses which increased cataplexy, increased discharge in a subgroup of the cataplexy active cells and in a number of other amygdala cells, indicating that prazosin may modulate cataplexy by its action on amygdala cells or their afferents.
The aim of this study was to analyse the biochemical and behavioural consequences of chronic treatment with opioid receptor antagonists in rats. We have evaluated the respiratory depressant and antinociceptive effects of the mu-opioid agonist sufentanil, the density of brain mu-opioid receptors, and the expression of G-protein-coupled receptor kinases and beta-arrestin 2 in cerebral cortex and striatum, following sustained opioid receptor blockade. Our results demonstrate that 24 h after interruption of 7 days chronic infusion of naltrexone (120 microg/h), the respiratory depressant potency of the mu-opioid receptor agonist sufentanil was increased to a similar extent as the antinociceptive potency (about three-fold). This was accompanied by mu-opioid receptor up-regulation in several areas of the rat brain associated with opioid control of pain perception and breathing. Moreover, chronic treatment with either naltrexone (120 microg/h) or naloxone (120 microg/h) caused significant increases in the expression levels of G-protein-coupled receptor kinases types 2, 3, and 6, and of beta-arrestin 2 in brain cortex and striatum. Together our data suggest an increased constitutive receptor activity secondary to mu-opioid receptor up-regulation following chronic antagonist treatment.
It is known that the nucleus accumbens contains all elements of the nitric oxide (NO)-cyclic GMP (cGMP) system but the role of NO in this nucleus is not well understood. We investigated the contribution of the NO-cGMP system in the neurotransmission elicited by hippocampal nerve signals which are propagated to the nucleus accumbens via the fornix/fimbria. This glutamatergic hippocampus-accumbens projection was electrically stimulated for short periods in the urethane-anaesthetized rat. The nucleus accumbens was simultaneously superfused by the push-pull technique with compounds that influence the NO system and the released glutamate, aspartate and GABA were determined in the superfusate. Superfusion of the nucleus accumbens with the NO donor, PAPA/NO, enhanced basal release of the investigated amino acids with a complex concentration dependency. The release of glutamate and aspartate was also increased by the inhibitor of phosphodiesterase 5, UK-114,542. The PAPA/NO-elicited release of glutamate and aspartate was diminished by superfusion with the inhibitor of guanylyl cyclase, NS 2028. Basal release of amino acid transmitters was not influenced by NS 2028 and the NO synthase inhibitor, 7-NINA.Electrical stimulation of the fornix/fimbria increased the outflow of aspartate, glutamate and GABA in the nucleus accumbens. The stimulation-evoked release was abolished by superfusion of the nucleus with tetrodotoxin and strongly diminished by NS 2028, 7-NINA and N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-name), while PAPA/NO facilitated stimulation-evoked release of these neurotransmitters. UK-114,542 also enhanced the evoked release of glutamate and aspartate while evoked GABA release was not influenced by the phosphodiesterase inhibitor. These findings indicate that NO plays the role of an excitatory transmitter in the nucleus accumbens and that nerve signals from the hippocampus propagated via fornix/fimbria induce NO synthesis in the nucleus accumbens. NO does not exert a tonic influence on basal release but facilitates release of aspartate, glutamate and GABA through increased cGMP synthesis. Phosphodiesterase 5 seems to be involved in the termination of the NO effect in glutamatergic but not in GABAergic neurons.
Adenosine tonically inhibits synaptic transmission through actions at A(1) receptors. It also facilitates synaptic transmission, but it is unclear if this facilitation results from pre- and/or postsynaptic A(2A) receptor activation or from indirect control of inhibitory GABAergic transmission. The A(2A) receptor agonist, CGS 21680 (10 nM), facilitated synaptic transmission in the CA1 area of rat hippocampal slices (by 14%), independent of whether or not GABAergic transmission was blocked by the GABA(A) and GABA(B) receptor antagonists, picrotoxin (50 microM) and CGP 55845 (1 microM), respectively. CGS 21680 (10 nM) also inhibited paired-pulse facilitation by 12%, an effect prevented by the A(2A) receptor antagonist, ZM 241385 (20 nM). These effects of CGS 21680 (10 nM) were occluded by adenosine deaminase (2 U/ml) and were made to reappear upon direct activation of A(1) receptors with N(6)-cyclopentyladenosine (CPA, 6 nM). CGS 21680 (10 nM) only facilitated (by 17%) the K(+)-evoked release of glutamate from superfused hippocampal synaptosomes in the presence of 100 nM CPA. This effect of CGS 21680 (10 nM), in contrast to the isoproterenol (30 microM) facilitation of glutamate release, was prevented by the protein kinase C inhibitors, chelerythrine (6 microM) and bisindolylmaleimide (1 microM), but not by the protein kinase A inhibitor, H-89 (1 microM). Isoproterenol (30 microM), but not CGS 21680 (10-300 nM), enhanced synaptosomal cAMP levels, indicating that the CGS 21680-induced facilitation of glutamate release involves a cAMP-independent protein kinase C activation. To discard any direct effect of CGS 21680 on adenosine A(1) receptor, we also show that in autoradiography experiments CGS 21680 only displaced the adenosine A(1) receptor antagonist, 1,3-dipropyl-8-cyclopentyladenosine ([(3)H]DPCPX, 0.5 nM) with an EC(50) of 1 microM in all brain areas studied and CGS 21680 (30 nM) failed to change the ability of CPA to displace DPCPX (1 nM) binding to CHO cells stably transfected with A(1) receptors. Our results suggest that A(2A) receptor agonists facilitate hippocampal synaptic transmission by attenuating the tonic effect of inhibitory presynaptic A(1) receptors located in glutamatergic nerve terminals. This might be a fine-tuning role for adenosine A(2A) receptors to allow frequency-dependent plasticity phenomena without compromising the A(1) receptor-mediated neuroprotective role of adenosine.
We demonstrated that short times (15 min) of immobilization stress application induced a very rapid increase in brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) mRNA expression in rat hypothalamus followed by a BDNF protein increase. The early change in total BDNF mRNA level seems to reflect increased expression of the BDNF transcript containing exon III, which was also rapidly (15 min) modified. The paraventricular and supraoptic nuclei, two hypothalamic nuclei closely related to the stress response and known to express BDNF mRNA, were analyzed by in situ hybridization following immobilization stress. In the parvocellular region of the paraventricular nucleus, BDNF mRNA levels increased very quickly as early as 15 min. In contrast, in the two other regions examined, the lateral and ventral magnocellular regions of the paraventricular nucleus, as well as in the supraoptic nucleus, signals above control were increased later, at 60 min. After stress application, plasma adrenocorticotropic hormone and corticosterone levels were strongly and significantly increased at 15 min. These studies demonstrated that immobilization stress challenge very rapidly enhanced BDNF mRNA levels as well as the protein, suggesting that BDNF may play a role in plasticity processes related to the stress response.
We investigated the properties of glycine-induced responses in Cajal-Retzius cells, a neuronal cell type essential for the establishment of neocortical lamination. Whole-cell and gramicidin-perforated patch-clamp recordings were performed on visually identified Cajal-Retzius cells in tangential slices from neonatal rat cortex (postnatal days 0-3). With a pipette Cl(-) concentration of 50 mM, bath application of 1 mM glycine induced a membrane depolarization of 32.8+/-7.4 mV and a massive decrease in membrane resistance by 88+/-1.4%. The membrane depolarization was abolished in the presence of the glycinergic antagonists strychnine (30 microM) and phenylbenzene-omega-phosphono-alpha-amino acid (100 microM), while the GABA(A) receptor antagonist bicuculline (100 microM) and the glutamatergic antagonist (+/-)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentatonic acid (60 microM) were without effect, suggesting that the glycine-induced membrane responses were mediated exclusively by the strychnine-sensitive glycine receptor. The EC(50) for activation of glycine receptors was 0.54 mM, 1.62 mM and 2.41 mM, for the glycinergic agonists glycine, beta-alanine and taurine, respectively. Since the reversal potential of the glycine-induced currents showed a strong dependency on the intracellular chloride concentration and was virtually unaffected under HCO(3)(-)-free conditions, the activation of glycine receptors was probably linked to Cl(-) fluxes with little contribution of HCO(3)(-) ions. Perforated patch recordings from Cajal-Retzius cells demonstrated that glycine elicited depolarizing responses mediated by Cl(-) currents which reversed at -41+/-3.7 mV. In summary, from these results we suggest that Cajal-Retzius cells of the neonatal rat cerebral cortex express functional strychnine-sensitive glycine receptors that mediate depolarizing membrane responses via Cl(-) efflux.
Cystatins are endogenous cysteine protease inhibitors that modulate the turnover of intracellular and extracellular proteins. These inhibitors are strongly implicated in a variety of pathological processes such as tumor metastasis and many degenerating CNS disorders. Here we report the expression of cystatin C, a major cysteine protease inhibitor of mammalian animals, in the murine hippocampus at 3, 7, 15 and 30 days following perforant path transections. Northern blot analysis showed that cystatin C transcripts were up-regulated in a transient manner with a significant increase at 7 and 15 days post-lesion (219% and 185% of control, respectively) in the rat hippocampus after entorhinal deafferentation. In situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry confirmed the time-dependent up-regulation of both cystatin C mRNA and protein expressions in a mouse model which initiated at 3 days post-lesion, reached maximal levels 7-15 days post-lesion, and remained slightly elevated by day 30 post-lesion. The modulation of cystatin C expression was observed to occur specifically in the entorhinally denervated zones: the stratum lacunosum-moleculare of the hippocampus and the outer molecular layer of the dentate gyrus. Double labeling by either a combination of in situ hybridization for cystatin C with immunohistochemistry for glial fibrillary acidic protein or double immunofluorescence staining for both proteins in mouse hippocampus at 7 and 15 days post-lesion revealed that most cystatin C-expressing cells are astrocytes. From these results we suggest that the spatiotemporal up-regulation of cystatin C in the hippocampus is induced by entorhinal deafferentation and that cystatin C may be involved in the astroglia-mediated neural plasticity events in the hippocampus following perforant path transections.
BK channels are voltage- and calcium-dependent potassium channels whose activation tends to reduce cellular excitability. In hippocampal pyramidal cells, BK channels repolarize somatic action potentials, and recent immunogold and electrophysiological analyses have revealed a presynaptic pool of BK channels that can regulate glutamate release. Agents that modulate BK channel activity would therefore be expected to affect cell excitability and neurotransmitter release also under pathological conditions. We have investigated the role of BK potassium channels in a model of ischemia-induced nerve cell degeneration. Organotypical slice cultures of rat hippocampus were exposed to oxygen and glucose deprivation (OGD), and cell death was assessed by the fluorescent dye propidium iodide. OGD induced cell death in the CA1 region and to a lesser extent in CA3. Treatment with the BK channel blockers, paxilline and iberiotoxin, during and after OGD induced increased cell death in CA1 and CA3. Both BK channel blockers also sensitized the relatively resistant granule cells in fascia dentata to OGD. The effect of paxilline and iberiotoxin was evident from 3 h after OGD, indicating a role of BK channels early in the post-ischemic phase or during OGD itself. The BK channel opener, NS1619, turned out to be gliotoxic, and this effect was not counteracted by paxilline and iberiotoxin. Our data show that blockade of BK channels aggravates OGD-induced cell damage and suggest that BK channels act as a kind of 'emergency brake' during and/or after ischemia. Accordingly, the BK channel is a potential molecular target for neuroprotective therapy in stroke.
Nitric oxide (NO) is a neurosignaling molecule that appears to play a significant role in learning and memory. This molecule has also been implicated in neurotoxicity due to its oxidative properties. Previous experiments from our laboratories have demonstrated elevated hippocampal and cortical neuronal nitric oxide synthase (NOS) mRNA levels in aged cognitively unimpaired and impaired Long-Evans rats, which could represent either increased neuronal NOS activity thereby leading to NO-mediated neurotoxicity, or a compensatory response by aged neurones to maintain physiological nitric oxide output. The current study measured the protein expression and activity levels of neuronal and inducible NOS in young adult (6 months) and aged (24-26 months) Long-Evans rats by means of western blotting and NOS activity assay. Aged animals were assigned as either cognitively unimpaired or aged with moderate cognitive impairments based on their performances in the Morris water maze behavioural task. Our results showed that hippocampal and cortical neuronal NOS expressions were significantly decreased in aged animals. These aged animals also exhibited increased hippocampal and cortical inducible NOS expressions. Between the two aged animal groups, cognitively impaired rats showed significantly lower hippocampal and cortical neuronal but higher hippocampal inducible NOS expressions. Young adult rats exhibited significantly higher hippocampal and cortical NOS activities than the aged animals. Aged animals with cognitive deficits showed significantly lower hippocampal NOS activity than cognitively unimpaired aged rats. Our data indicate that aging is associated with a decline in neuronal but elevated inducible NOS functioning in brain areas involved in learning and memory. These phenomena could contribute to the cognitive deficits observed in a sub-population of aged animals.
Somatostatin may play a role in several neuropsychiatric disorders, including Parkinson's disease. Although functional interactions between somatostatinergic and dopaminergic transmitter systems have been well documented, no study has been conducted in animals with experimental Parkinsonism to explore the effects of somatostatin on dopamine receptor-mediated behavior. In the present study, rats with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine-induced destruction of the medial forebrain bundle were assessed following administration of the dopamine(1/2) receptor agonist apomorphine. Ipsilateral intrastriatal infusion of somatostatin produced a dose-related inhibition of apomorphine-induced rotations with maximal effect at a dose of 7.5 microg in 2 microl. This inhibitory effect of somatostatin was antagonized by the somatostatin antagonist cyclo-somatostatin (0.1 microg in 2 microl, intrastriatally). Neither somatostatin (up to 15 microg in 2 microl) nor cyclo-somatostatin on its own induced rotations; similarly, this dose of cyclo-somatostatin did not affect apomorphine-induced rotations. From these results we suggest that exogenous somatostatin, by directly acting on its specific receptors in the striatum, inhibits the effects of dopamine receptor activation in parkinsonian rats. We conclude that therapies based on modulation of somatostatin may be worth exploring in the management of Parkinson's disease and other disorders of the basal ganglia.
Major achievements made over the last several years have highlighted the important roles of creatine and the creatine kinase reaction in health and disease. Inborn errors of metabolism have been identified in the three main steps involved in creatine metabolism: arginine:glycine amidinotransferase (AGAT), S-adenosyl-L-methionine:N-guanidinoacetate methyltransferase (GAMT), and the creatine transporter. All these diseases are characterized by a lack of creatine and phosphorylcreatine in the brain, and by (severe) mental retardation. Similarly, knockout mice lacking the brain cytosolic and mitochondrial isoenzymes of creatine kinase displayed a slightly increased creatine concentration, but no phosphorylcreatine in the brain. These mice revealed decreased weight gain and reduced life expectancy, disturbed fat metabolism, behavioral abnormalities and impaired learning capacity. Oral creatine supplementation improved the clinical symptoms in both AGAT and GAMT deficiency, but not in creatine transporter deficiency. In addition, creatine supplementation displayed neuroprotective effects in several animal models of neurological disease, such as Huntington's disease, Parkinson's disease, or amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. All these findings pinpoint to a close correlation between the functional capacity of the creatine kinase/phosphorylcreatine/creatine system and proper brain function. They also offer a starting-point for novel means of delaying neurodegenerative disease, and/or for strengthening memory function and intellectual capabilities.Finally, creatine biosynthesis has been postulated as a major effector of homocysteine concentration in the plasma, which has been identified as an independent graded risk factor for atherosclerotic disease. By decreasing homocysteine production, oral creatine supplementation may, thus, also lower the risk for developing, e.g., coronary heart disease or cerebrovascular disease. Although compelling, these results require further confirmation in clinical studies in humans, together with a thorough evaluation of the safety of oral creatine supplementation.
The comprehension of the cerebellar physiology is rapidly changing in particular because of the demonstration of the cerebellar importance on cognition. In the present paper, recent data on cerebro cerebellar interactions is reviewed, particularly focusing on cerebellar influences over the neurophysiology of primary motor and primary sensory cortices. The cerebellar role in implicit learning and in sensory data processing is analysed and discussed. It is proposed that the cerebellum could control cortical plastic changes by modulating cortical excitability in a discrete topographic manner and that this mechanism could induce the coupling between significant sensory inputs and definite motor outputs considered as the neurobiological substrate for implicit learning.
Most excitatory input in the hippocampus and cerebral cortex impinges on dendritic spines. Alterations in dendritic spine density or shape are suspected to be morphological manifestations of changes in physiology or behavior. The links between spine plasticity and physiological responses have probably been best studied in the hippocampus in the context of changes in the circulating levels of steroid hormones or long-term potentiation. Here we review and present data which indicate that both the age of the preparation and the timing of the analysis can dramatically effect the results obtained. Collectively the data suggest that different cellular and morphological strategies may be utilized at different ages and under different circumstances to effect similar physiological responses or behaviors.
Thy-1 is a cell-surface signaling molecule of the Ig superfamily implicated in the regulation of neurite outgrowth, synaptic function and plasticity. There is, however, no consensus as to its precise function in the nervous system, and it remains unclear or untested as to what its role is in the development, maintenance and plasticity of neuronal connectivity in the intact brain and whether it is essential for any of the purported functions which have been attributed to it based largely on in vitro bioassays. Here, we have engineered transgenic mice with a targeted deletion of the Thy-1 gene and, after characterizing the development of their corticospinal and thalamocortical pathways, subjected them at adulthood to paradigms of axonal regeneration and plasticity which can be readily induced during development. Quantitative analyses of the brains and spinal cords of adult null mutants showed normal cellular organization, normal anatomical features of the corticospinal and thalamocortical pathways, and basic neurophysiological properties of thalamocortical synaptic transmission which were quantitatively indistinguishable from wild-type mice. Despite the absence of Thy-1, corticospinal axons in adult mutants failed to exhibit overt regeneration following spinal cord lesion; likewise, the terminal arbors of ventrobasal thalamocortical axons also failed to reorganize in adult barrel cortex in response to whisker cautery, although they did so during a developmental critical period identical to that displayed by wild-type mice.Taken together, these results suggest that Thy-1 is not essential for the normal development and maintenance of major axon pathways and functional synaptic connections, nor would it appear to be critically important for inhibiting or promoting axonal growth, regeneration and plasticity in the developing and mature CNS.
Cortical neuromodulatory transmitter systems refer to those classical neurotransmitters such as acetylcholine and monoamines, which share a number of common features. For instance, their centers are located in subcortical regions and send long projection axons to innervate the cortex. The same transmitter can either excite or inhibit cortical neurons depending on the composition of postsynaptic transmitter receptor subtypes. The overall functions of these transmitters are believed to serve as chemical bases of arousal, attention and motivation. The anatomy and physiology of neuromodulatory transmitter systems and their innervations in the cerebral cortex have been well characterized. In addition, ample evidence is available indicating that neuromodulatory transmitters also play roles in development and plasticity of the cortex. In this article, the anatomical organization and physiological function of each of the following neuromodulatory transmitters, acetylcholine, noradrenaline, serotonin, dopamine, and histamine, in the cortex will be described. The involvement of these transmitters in cortical plasticity will then be discussed. Available data suggest that neuromodulatory transmitters can modulate the excitability of cortical neurons, enhance the signal-to-noise ratio of cortical responses, and modify the threshold for activity-dependent synaptic modifications. Synaptic transmissions of these neuromodulatory transmitters are mediated via numerous subtype receptors, which are linked to multiple signal transduction mechanisms. Among the neuromodulatory transmitter receptor subtypes, cholinergic M(1), noradrenergic beta(1) and serotonergic 5-HT(2C) receptors appear to be more important than other receptor subtypes for cortical plasticity. In general, the contribution of neuromodulatory transmitter systems to cortical plasticity may be made through a facilitation of NMDA receptor-gated processes.
The barrel cortex has yielded a wealth of information about cortical plasticity in recent years. Barrel cortex is one of the few cortical areas studied so far where plasticity can be examined from birth through to adulthood. This review looks at plasticity mechanisms in three periods of life: early post-natal development, adolescence and adulthood. Separate consideration is given to depression and potentiation mechanisms. Plasticity can be induced in barrel cortex by whisker deprivation. Single whisker experience leads to expansion of the area of cortex responding to the spared whisker. In early post-natal life, plasticity occurs in thalamocortical pathways, while later in adolescence, intracortical pathways become more important. Ablation of the spared whisker's barrel prevents expression of plasticity in the cortex. A row of lesions between the spared and an adjacent barrel prevents expression of plasticity in the adjacent barrel. This evidence, together with latency of response data and an analysis of pathways capable of inducing long-term potentiation (LTP) within barrel cortex, leads to the view that horizontal and/or diagonal pathways between barrels are responsible for plasticity expression. The mouse has become the most commonly mutated mammalian species and has a well-developed barrel cortex. Therefore, mutations can be used to study the role of particular molecules in experience-dependent plasticity of barrel cortex. Through this work, it has become clear that the major post-synaptic density protein, alpha-CaMKII, and its T286 autophosphorylation site are essential for experience-dependent plasticity. This points to a major role for excitatory transmission in cortical plasticity and raises the possibility that LTP like mechanisms are involved. Furthermore, transgenic mice carrying a reporter gene for CRE have provided evidence that CRE-mediated gene expression is also involved in barrel cortex plasticity. This view is supported by studies on alpha/delta CREB knockouts, and provides a starting point for studying the role of gene expression in experience-dependent cortical plasticity.
This study deals with two kinds of activity-dependent phenomena in the somatosensory cortex of adult monkeys, both of which may be related: (1) mutability of representational maps, as defined electrophysiologically; (2) alterations in expression of genes important in the inhibitory and excitatory neurotransmitter systems. Area 3b of the cerebral cortex was mapped physiologically and mRNA levels or numbers of immunocytochemically stained neurons quantified after disrupting afferent input peripherally by section of peripheral nerves, or centrally by making lesions of increasing size in the somatosensory thalamus. Survival times ranged from a few weeks to many months. Mapping studies after peripheral nerve lesions replicated results of previous studies in showing the contraction of representations deprived of sensory input and expansion of adjacent representations. However, these changes in representational maps were in most cases unaccompanied by significant alterations in gene expression for calcium calmodulin-dependent protein kinase isoforms, for glutamic acid decarboxylase, GABA(A) receptor subunits, GABA(B) receptors, alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate (AMPA) or N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor subunits. Mapping studies after lesions in the ventral posterior lateral nucleus (VPL) of the thalamus revealed no changes in cortical representations of the hand or fingers until &gt;15% of the thalamic representation was destroyed, and only slight changes until approximately 45% of the representation was destroyed, at which point the cortical representation of the finger at the center of a lesion began to shrink. Lesions destroying &gt;60% of VPL resulted in silencing of the hand representation. Although all lesions were associated with a loss of parvalbumin-immunoreactive thalamocortical fiber terminations, and of cytochrome oxidase staining in a focal zone of area 3b, no changes in gene expression could be detected in the affected zone until &gt;40-50% of VPL was destroyed, and even after that changes in mRNA levels or in numbers of GABA-immunoreactive neurons in the affected zone were remarkably small. The results of these studies differ markedly from the robust changes in gene expression detectable in the visual cortex of monkeys deprived of vision in one eye. The results confirm the view that divergence of the afferent somatosensory pathways from periphery to cerebral cortex is sufficiently great that many fibers can be lost before neuronal activity is totally silenced in area 3b. This divergence is capable of maintaining a high degree of cortical function in the face of diminishing inputs from the periphery and is probably an important element in promoting representational plasticity in response to altered patterns of afferent input.
Contrary to the classical view of a pre-determined wiring pattern, there is considerable evidence that cortical representation of body parts is continuously modulated in response to activity, behavior and skill acquisition. Both animal and human studies showed that following injury of the peripheral nervous system such as nerve injury or amputation, the somatosensory cortex that responded to the deafferented body parts become responsive to neighboring body parts. Similarly, there is expansion of the motor representation of the stump area following amputation. Reorganization of the sensory and motor systems following peripheral injury occurs in multiple levels including the spinal cord, brainstem, thalamus and cortex. In early-blind subjects, the occipital cortex plays an important role in Braille reading, suggesting that there is cross-modal plasticity. Functional recovery frequently occurs following a CNS injury such as stroke. Motor recovery from stroke may be associated with the adjacent cortical areas taking over the function of the damaged areas or utilization of alternative motor pathways. The ipsilateral motor pathway may mediate motor recovery in patients who undergo hemispherectomy early in life and in children with hemiplegic cerebral palsy, but it remains to be determined if it plays a significant role in the recovery of adult stroke. One of the challenges in stroke recovery is to identify which of the many neuroimaging and neurophysiological changes demonstrated are important in mediating recovery. The mechanism of plasticity probably differs depending on the time frame. Rapid changes in motor representations within minutes are likely due to unmasking of latent synapses involving modulation of GABAergic inhibition. Changes over a longer time likely involve other additional mechanisms such as long-term potentiation, axonal regeneration and sprouting. While cross-modal plasticity appears to be useful in enhancing the perceptions of compensatory sensory modalities, the functional significance of motor reorganization following peripheral injury remains unclear and some forms of sensory reorganization may even be associated with deleterious consequences like phantom pain. An understanding of the mechanism of plasticity will help to develop treatment programs to improve functional outcome.
The problem of 'readout' from sensory maps has received considerable attention recently. Specifically, many experiments in different systems have suggested that the routing of sensory signals from cortical maps can be impressively flexible. In this review, we discuss many of the experiments addressing readout of motion signals from the middle temporal area (also known as V5) in the macaque monkey. We focus on two different types of output: perceptual reports (categorical decisions, usually) and motion-guided eye movements. We specifically consider situations in which multiple-motion vectors present in the stimulus are combined, as well as those in which one or more of the vectors in the stimulus is selected for output. The results of these studies suggest that in some situations multiple motions are vector averaged, while in others multiple vectors can be maintained. Interestingly, in most of the experiments producing a single (often average) vector, the output is a movement. However, many perceptual experiments involve the simultaneous processing of multiple-stimulus motions. One prosaic explanation for this pattern of apparently discrepant results is that different downstream structures impose different rules, in parallel, on the output from sensory maps such as the one in the middle temporal area. We also specifically discuss the case of motion opponency, a specific readout rule that has been posited to explain perceptual phenomena such as the waterfall illusion (motion aftereffect). We present evidence from a recent experiment showing that an opponent step must occur downstream from the middle temporal area itself. This observation is consistent with our proposal that significant processing need occur downstream from sensory structures. If a single output is to be used for multiple purposes, often at once, this necessitates a degree of task invariance on the sensory information present even at a relatively high level of cortical processing.
Studies of the effects of peripheral and central lesions, perceptual learning and neurochemical modification on the sensory representations in cortex have had a dramatic effect in alerting neuroscientists and therapists to the reorganizational capacity of the adult brain. An intriguing aspect of some of these investigations, such as partial peripheral denervation, is the short-term expression of these changes. Indeed, in visual cortex, auditory cortex and somatosensory cortex loss of input from a region of the peripheral receptor epithelium (retinal, basilar and cutaneous, respectively) induces rapid expression of ectopic, or expanded, receptive fields of affected neurons and reorganization of topographic maps to fill in the representation of the denervated area. The extent of these changes can, in some cases, match the maximal extents demonstrated with chronic manipulations. The rapidity, and reversibility, of the effects rules out many possible explanations which involve synaptic plasticity and points to a capacity for representational plasticity being inherent in the circuitry of a topographic pathway. Consequently, topographic representations must be considered as manifestations of physiological interaction rather than as anatomical constructs. Interference with this interaction can produce an unmasking of previously inhibited responsiveness. Consideration of the nature of masking inhibition which is consistent with the precision and order of a topographic representation and which has a capacity for rapid plasticity requires, in addition to stimulus-driven inhibition, a source of tonic input from the periphery. Such input, acting locally to provide tonic inhibition, has been directly demonstrated in the somatosensory system and is consistent with results obtained in auditory and visual systems.

Previous studies have shown that arginine vasopressin is an important neuropeptide that can modulate the reflex control of blood pressure and heart rate. The nucleus ambiguus, where cardiac parasympathetic neurons are located, receives dense arginine vasopressin projections. However the mechanisms by which arginine vasopressin alters cardiac parasympathetic activity are unknown. We tested the hypothesis that arginine vasopressin can alter the activity of cardiac parasympathetic neurons by altering the spontaneous GABAergic input to these neurons. Experiments were conducted using whole cell patch clamp recordings of cardiac parasympathetic neurons in an in vitro slice preparation in rats. The results of this study demonstrate that arginine vasopressin increases the frequency and amplitude of GABAergic inhibitory post-synaptic currents in cardiac parasympathetic neurons. Arginine vasopressin did not alter the GABAergic currents evoked by exogenous application of GABA. Similarly, in the presence of tetrodotoxin, arginine vasopressin did not alter the frequency, amplitude or decay time of GABAergic miniature synaptic events evoked by high osmolarity. These results indicate that arginine vasopressin likely acts on neurons precedent to cardiac parasympathetic neurons and that arginine vasopressin likely acts not at the synaptic terminal but at the soma or dendrites of the precedent neuron. Oxytocin and agonists for the V(2)-arginine vasopressin and V(1b)-arginine vasopressin receptors had no effect. By contrast, the arginine vasopressin-evoked responses were completely abolished by a selective V(1a)-arginine vasopressin receptor antagonist indicating arginine vasopressin responses are mediated by V(1a)-arginine vasopressin receptors. We conclude that the V(1a)-arginine vasopressin receptor-mediated increase in frequency and amplitude of inhibitory GABAergic activity to cardiac parasympathetic neurons may be at least one mechanism by which central arginine vasopressin may increase heart rate and inhibit reflex bradycardia.
The metabotropic glutamate receptor type 5 (mGlu5) is expressed in two splice variants, mGlu5a and mGlu5b, which differ in that mGlu5b has a 33-amino acid insert in the intracellular C-terminal domain. This receptor subtype is highly regulated, with higher levels found in developing animals, but the contributions of the individual splice variants to the receptor population at any time are unknown. An antibody that specifically reacts with the insert was developed and used to measure the regional and developmental distribution of mGlu5b in the mouse and rat brain. In contrast to total mGlu5 receptor protein, most brain regions exhibit a less than two-fold alteration between post-natal day 7 and adult levels of mGlu5b. In the adult cortex, there is a three-fold increase of mGlu5b protein relative to at post-natal day 7. Estimates of mGlu5a protein indicate that most of the developmental alteration in total mGlu5 is due to changes in expression of this variant. Comparison of mGlu5b protein and mRNA levels indicates that greatly different post-transcriptional regulation occurs across brain regions. These results indicate that mGlu5 expression is precisely and complexly controlled at the level of transcription and that different functions of mGlu5 during different developmental periods and in distinct regions are likely mediated by different splice variants.
The supramammillary neurons projecting directly to the hippocampus or indirectly via the septum participate in the regulation of hippocampal theta activity. Inputs to the supramammillary nucleus are only partly specified neurochemically. Glutamate appears to be an excitatory transmitter in this cell group, however, the origin of the glutamatergic afferents is unknown. The present investigations were devoted to study this question. The transmitter-selective [(3)H]D-aspartate retrograde transport method was used injecting the tracer into the lateral subregion of the nucleus. The radioactive tracer was visualized by autoradiography. Non-selective retrograde tracing experiments were also performed for reference injecting wheat germ agglutinin-conjugated colloidal gold into the same supramammillary region. Retrogradely radiolabelled neurons in various numbers were detected in several brain regions including medial septum-diagonal band complex, lateral septum, rostral part of medial and lateral preoptic areas, lateral habenula, ventral premammillary nucleus, apical subregion of interpeduncular nucleus, laterodorsal tegmental nucleus, and dorsal and median raphe nuclei. Radiolabelled neurons in the mentioned raphe nuclei were serotonin-immunonegative. In the non-selective retrograde tracing experiments combined with immunocytochemistry, about 50% of the retrogradely labelled neurons in the raphe nuclei was serotonin-immunonegative, showing that not only serotonergic raphe neurons project to the supramammillary nucleus. The findings indicate that a significant part of the afferents from telencephalic, diencephalic and brainstem regions to the supramammillary nucleus may contain glutamate/aspartate as neurotransmitter. The most important functional implications of these observations concern the role of the supramammillary nucleus in controlling the electrical activity of the hippocampus, and in particular the generation and maintenance of the theta rhythm.
In situ hybridisation and immunohistochemical methodologies suggest the existence of a large diversity of GABA(A) receptor subtypes in the brain. These are hetero-oligomeric proteins modulated by a number of clinically important drugs, depending on their subunit composition. We recently cloned and localised the rat GABA(A) receptor epsilon-subunit by in situ hybridisation and immunohistochemical procedures. Here, in a dual-labelling immunohistochemical study in the rat brain, we used our affinity-purified antiserum to epsilon with antisera to markers of cholinergic, catecholaminergic, and serotonergic neurones. As far as cholinergic systems were concerned, epsilon-immunoreactivity was expressed in all forebrain cell-groups, as well as in the caudal lateral pontine tegmentum and dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus nerve. As far as dopaminergic systems were concerned, epsilon-immunoreactivity was found to be expressed in a great number of hypothalamic cell-groups (A15, A14 and A12) and in the substantia nigra pars compacta. The noradrenergic, and to a lesser extent, adrenergic cell-groups were all epsilon-immunoreactive. Also, epsilon-immunoreactivity was detected in all serotonergic cell-groups. We also revealed by in situ hybridisation in a monkey brain that epsilon mRNA was expressed in the locus coeruleus, as previously observed in rats. Finally, by using in situ hybridisation in rat brains, we compared the distribution of the mRNA of epsilon with that of the recently cloned theta-subunit of the GABA(A) receptor. Both subunits showed strikingly overlapping expression patterns throughout the brain, especially in the septum, preoptic areas, various hypothalamic nuclei, amygdala, and thalamus, as well as the aforementioned monoaminergic cell-groups. No theta-mRNA signals were detected in cholinergic cell-groups. Taken together with previously published evidence of the presence of the alpha3-subunit in monoamine- or acetylcholine-containing systems, our data suggest the existence of novel GABA(A) receptors comprising alpha3/epsilon in cholinergic and alpha3/theta/epsilon in monoaminergic cell-groups.
In this study neurite outgrowth from cultured hippocampal neurones was increased by addition of acetylcholinesterase acting in a non-cholinergic manner. Only monomeric acetylcholinesterase, a form of acetylcholinesterase dominant in development, increased neurite outgrowth (3-10 U/ml); moreover this effect was not blocked by active site blockers (echothiophate and galanthamine) but was sensitive to the addition of peripheral site blockers (fasciculin and BW284c51). It appears therefore that acetylcholinesterase has alternative, non-cholinergic functions, one of which could be in development, via a peripheral site. The possibility of a causal relationship between neurite outgrowth and calcium influx was explored using a spectrum of acetylcholinesterase variants, inhibitors and calcium channel blockers. Acetylcholinesterase regulation of outgrowth was shown to depend on an influx of extracellular calcium specifically via the L-type voltage-gated calcium channel. In summary, we propose that, independent of its catalytic activity, a selective form of acetylcholinesterase has a role in the development of hippocampal neurones via a selective voltage-gated calcium channel.
Acoustic trauma is the major cause of hearing loss in industrialised nations. We show in guinea-pigs that sound exposure (6 kHz, 120 dB sound pressure level for 30 min) leads to sensory cell death and subsequent permanent hearing loss. Ultrastructural analysis reveals that degeneration of the noise-damaged hair cells involved different mechanisms, including typical apoptosis, autolysis and, to a lesser extent, necrosis. Whatever the mechanisms, a common feature of noise damage to hair cells was mitochondrial alteration. Riluzole (2-amino-6-trifluoromethoxy benzothiazole) is a neuroprotective agent that prevents apoptosis- and necrosis-induced cell death. Perfusion of riluzole into the cochlea via an osmotic minipump prevents mitochondrial damage and subsequent translocation of cytochrome c, DNA fragmentation, and hair cell degeneration. This was confirmed by functional tests showing a clear dose-dependent reduction (ED(50)=16.8 microM) of permanent hearing loss and complete protection at 100 microM. Although less efficient than intracochlear perfusion, intraperitoneal injection of riluzole rescues the cochlea within a therapeutic window of 24 h after acoustic trauma.These results show that riluzole is able to prevent and rescue the cochlea from acoustic trauma. It may thus be an interesting molecule for the treatment of inner ear injuries.
The horizontal vestibulo-oculomotor reflex was studied in pigmented rats during the first 5 days after a unilateral chemical or surgical vestibular deafferentation. Spontaneous eye movements in darkness and slow phase velocity gain of compensatory eye movements during horizontal sinusoidal rotation were evaluated. The most evident vestibulo-oculomotor symptom immediately after a unilateral vestibular loss was a spontaneous nystagmus, which gradually abated during the following days. Further, an asymmetry between ipsi- and contra-lesional gains was evident during sinusoidal vestibular stimulation. Single systemic doses of the GABA(B) receptor antagonist [3-[1-(S)-[[3-(cyclohexylmethyl)-hydroxyphosphinoyl]-2-(S)-hydroxypropyl]amino]ethyl]-benzoic acid (CGP 56433A), the agonist baclofen, or the GABA(A) receptor agonist (4,5,6,7-tetrahydroisoxazolo-[5,4-c]-pyridin-3-ol (THIP) were given at different intervals after unilateral vestibular deafferentation. CGP 56433A highly aggravated the vestibulo-oculomotor symptoms, observed as an increase in spontaneous nystagmus and slow phase velocity gain asymmetry. This effect was most pronounced during the first 2 days after unilateral vestibular loss, when CGP 56433A even decompensated the vestibular system to the extent that all vestibular responses were abolished. Baclofen caused no effect during the first days after unilateral vestibular loss, but in parallel with the abatement of spontaneous nystagmus, the drug equilibrated or even reversed the remaining spontaneous nystagmus with corresponding effects on the slow-phase velocity gain asymmetry. The effects of baclofen were very similar after both chemical and surgical deafferentation. THIP caused a slight depression of all vestibular responses. All single dose effects of the drugs were transient. Altogether these results reveal that endogenous stimulation of GABA(B) receptors in GABA-ergic vestibulo-oculomotor circuits are important for reducing the vestibular asymmetry during the early period after unilateral vestibular deafferentation. A possible role for GABA(B) receptors in the reciprocal inhibitory commissural pathways in the vestibular nuclei is suggested.
The mediorostral neostriatum/hyperstriatum ventrale and neostriatum dorsocaudale of the domestic chick are crucially involved in filial imprinting and are major targets of mesotelencephalic dopaminergic projections. To better understand the functional role of dopamine in these forebrain regions, the ultrastructure of dopamine terminals was studied by serial section electron microscopy using immunohistochemical labeling with antibodies to tyrosine hydroxylase and dopamine. At light as well as electron microscopic level, dopamine and tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive fibers were present at moderate densities in the mediorostral neostriatum/hyperstriatum ventrale and high densities in the neostriatum dorsocaudale. The frequency of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive profiles per unit area was significantly higher in the neostriatum dorsocaudale than in the mediorostral neostriatum/hyperstriatum ventrale. In both regions, tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive terminals were relatively small, with mean areas of 0.55 microm(2) in the mediorostral neostriatum/hyperstriatum ventrale and 0.48 microm(2) in the neostriatum dorsocaudale. The majority of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive synapses were symmetrical (83% in the mediorostral neostriatum/hyperstriatum ventrale, 75% in the neostriatum dorsocaudale) as opposed to asymmetrical (17 and 25%, respectively), but there were also tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive terminals which lacked clear synaptic specializations. The preferred targets of the synaptic tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive terminals were dendritic shafts (64% in the mediorostral neostriatum/hyperstriatum ventrale, 63% in the neostriatum dorsocaudale) and less frequently dendritic spines (17 and 23%, respectively) or perikarya (19 and 14%, respectively). In both forebrain regions, immunoreactive terminals were often found in close apposition to unstained terminals making asymmetrical synapses. In conclusion, these results indicate that the ultrastructural features of dopamine terminals in the avian telencephalon are very similar to those described in mammals and that dopamine may exert its effects primarily by modulating excitatory inputs.
We have shown previously that raised levels of serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine or 5-HT) during development prevent retinal ganglion cell axons from segregating into eye-specific regions in their principal targets: the superior colliculus and the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus. Possible mediators of 5-HT in this system include its plasma membrane transporter, which is transiently expressed by a sub-population of retinal ganglion cells, and the presynaptic 5-HT(1B) receptor carried on retinal ganglion cell axons. We analysed the retinal projections of 5-HT(1B) knockout (n=15), serotonin transporter knockout (n=14), serotonin transporter/5-HT(1B) double knockout (n=4) and monoamine oxidase A/5-HT(1B) double knockout (n=3) mice. In all four different knockout mice, the ipsilateral retinal projection to the superior colliculus was more diffuse and lost its characteristic patchy distribution. The alterations were most severe in the serotonin transporter knockout mice, where the ipsilateral retinal fibres covered the entire rostrocaudal and mediolateral extent of the superior colliculus, whereas in the 5-HT(1B) and double knockout mice, fibres retracted from the caudal and lateral superior colliculus. Abnormalities in the 5-HT(1B) knockout mice appeared only after postnatal day (P) 4. Treatment with parachlorophenylalanine (at P1-P12) to decrease serotonin levels caused an exuberance of the ipsilateral retinal fibres throughout the superior colliculus (n=9). In the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus in contrast, the distribution and size of the ipsilateral retinal projection was normal in all four knockout mice. In the serotonin transporter knockout mice however, the contralateral retinal fibres failed to retract from the mediodorsal dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus, an abnormality that was reversed by early treatment with parachlorophenylalanine and in the serotonin transporter/5-HT(1B) double knockout. OUR OBSERVATIONS INDICATE: (1) that the lack of 5-HT transporter and the associated changes in 5-HT levels impair the segregation of retinal axons in both the superior colliculus and the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus; (2) that 5-HT and 5-HT(1B) receptors are necessary for the normal refinement of the ipsilateral retinal fibres in the superior colliculus, but are not essential for the establishment of eye-specific segregation in the thalamus. Thus, both an excess and a lack of 5-HT affect the refinement of the superior colliculus retinal projection, while the establishment of eye-specific patterns in the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus appears not to be sensitive to the lack of 5-HT or 5-HT(1B) receptors.
Collateral sprouting of cutaneous nociceptive axons into the adjacent denervated skin critically depends on the nerve growth factor, presumably originating from the degenerated neural pathways and denervated skin. We hypothesised that the degenerated neural pathways are necessary, but not sufficient, to induce collateral sprouting of nociceptive axons, and, in addition, that the interaction between the injured and non-injured neurones within a dorsal root ganglion can trigger sprouting of nociceptive axons also in the absence of the denervated skin. End-to-side nerve anastomosis, made in female Wistar rats by suturing the end of an excised peroneal nerve segment to the side of the intact sural nerve, was used as a model for sprouting which allowed us to study the putative induction mechanisms separately. If the nerves adjacent to the sural nerve were transected concomitantly with the coaptation of the end-to-side anastomosis, robust nociceptive axon sprouting into the anastomosed nerve segment was observed by the nerve pinch test and counting of myelinated axons. Collateral sprouting did not occur, however, either if the cells in the anastomosed nerve segment were killed by freezing and thawing, or if the adjacent nerves had not been injured. However, if the ipsilateral dorsal cutaneous nerves, having their neurones in the same dorsal root ganglia as the sural nerve, were transected, but no other nerves were injured, then the sural nerve axons sprouted in abundance through the anastomosis even in the absence of denervated skin around the sural nerve terminals. From these results we suggest that cells (probably proliferating Schwann cells) in the degenerated neural pathways are necessary but not sufficient to induce collateral sprouting of nociceptive axons, and that interactions between the injured and non-injured neurones within the dorsal root ganglion (i.e. direct or indirect interneuronal signalling) are important in this regard.
Calbindin-D(28K)-immunoreactive cells are tightly packed within a discrete region of the caudal aspect of the suprachiasmatic nuclei of hamsters. These cells receive direct retinal input and are Fos-positive in response to a light pulse. Knowledge of their afferent and efferent connections is necessary to understand suprachiasmatic nucleus organization. The first aim of the present study is to identify interconnections between calbindin and other peptidergic cells of the suprachiasmatic nuclei, using epi- and confocal microscopy and intra-suprachiasmatic nucleus tract tracing. The results indicate that essentially all calbindin cells receive numerous appositions from vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP), neuropeptide Y and serotonin fibers and that most receive appositions from gastrin releasing peptide (GRP) and cholecystokinin (CCK) fibers. Reciprocal connections are seen from VIP, GRP and CCK cells but surprisingly, not from dorsomedial vasopressin cells. Injection of biotinylated dextran amine into the suprachiasmatic nucleus indicates that the ventrolateral suprachiasmatic nucleus projects to the entire nucleus, while the dorsal and medial regions of the suprachiasmatic nucleus project densely to most of the nucleus, except to the calbindin region. Analysis of colocalization of the peptides in the calbindin cell region shows that 91% of the substance P cells, 42% of the GRP cells and 60% of the VIP cells in the calbindin subnucleus coexpress calbindin-D(28K). Our results reveal a highly specialized topographical organization of connections among suprachiasmatic nucleus cells.
Several immediate-early genes have been shown to be induced in the rodent circadian pacemaker, the suprachiasmatic nucleus, by retinal illumination at night. We compared spontaneous and light-evoked levels of the immediate-early gene protein ZIF268 (NGFI-A) in the Syrian hamster and C57BL/6J mouse suprachiasmatic nucleus. Exposure of both hamsters and mice to light pulses early and late in the subjective night caused increased ZIF268 immunoreactivity in the region of the suprachiasmatic nucleus that receives retinal innervation. In contrast to hamsters, mice also showed spontaneous increases in ZIF268 at both subjective night phases at the lateral edges of the suprachiasmatic nucleus. Light also evoked a significant increase in ZIF268 levels during the subjective day in the lateral suprachiasmatic nucleus, with few labeled cells in the ventral and dorsal suprachiasmatic nucleus. These results demonstrate a novel circadian pattern and regional differentiation of ZIF268 immunoreactivity in the suprachiasmatic nucleus of mice that differ from those in other rodents. There are pronounced species differences in both spontaneous and light-evoked expression of ZIF268 immunoreactivity.
There is a good deal of evidence that in the rodent, an internal model of the external world is encoded by hippocampal pyramidal cells, called 'place cells'. During free exploration, the activity of place cells is higher within a small part of the space, called the firing field, and virtually silent elsewhere. We have previously shown that the spiking activity during passes through the firing field is characterized not only by the high firing rate, but also by its very high variability ('overdispersion'). This overdispersion indicates that place cells carry information in addition to position. Here we demonstrate by simulations of an integrate-and-fire neuronal model that while a rat is foraging in an open space this additional information may arise from a process that alternatingly modulates the inputs to place cells by about 10% with a mean period of about 1 s. We propose that the overdispersion reflects switches of the rats attention between different spatial reference frames of the environment. This predicts that the overdispersion will not be observed in rats that use only room-based cues for navigation. We show that while place cell firing is overdispersed in rats during foraging in an open arena, the firing is less overdispersed during the same behavior in the same environment, when the rats have been trained to use only room-based and not arena-based cues to navigate.
Expression of the normal cellular form of prion protein is both necessary and rate-limiting in the spread of prion disease, yet its cellular expression in vivo is poorly understood. To optimise immunohistochemical labelling of this protein in mouse brain, we have developed novel antibodies that recognise cellular prion protein in glutaraldehyde-fixed tissue. Expression was found to be predominantly neuronal, and to differ between different classes of neurone. Thus, neurones immunoreactive for GABA expressed very high levels of normal prion protein; most projection neurones expressed much lower levels, particularly on their axons in the major fibre tracts, and some neurones (e.g. those positive for dopamine) displayed no detectable prion protein. In marked contrast, all neurones, even those that were immunonegative, expressed high levels of message for prion protein, shown by non-radioactive in situ hybridisation. Glia expressed very low levels of message, and undetectable levels of prion protein. We conclude that the steady-state level of prion protein, which differs so markedly between different neuronal types, is primarily controlled post-transcriptionally, possibly by differences in protein trafficking or degradation. These marked differences in the way different neurones produce and/or degrade their normal cellular prion protein may influence the selective spread and neurotoxic targeting of prion diseases within the CNS.
The distribution of neuropeptide Y (NPY) Y1 receptor-like immunoreactivity (Y1R-LI) has been studied in detail in the CNS of rat using a rabbit polyclonal antibody against the C-terminal 13 amino acids of the rat receptor protein. The indirect immunofluorescence technique with tyramide signal amplification has been employed. For specificity and comparative reasons Y1 knock-out mice and wild-type controls were analyzed. The distribution of Y1R mRNA was also studied using in situ hybridization. A limited comparison between Y1R-LI and NPY-LI was carried out.A widespread and abundant distribution of Y1R-LI, predominantly in processes but also in cell bodies, was observed. In fact, Y1R-LI was found in most regions of the CNS with a similar distribution pattern between rat and wild-type mouse. This staining was specific in the sense that it was absent in adjacent sections following preadsorption of the antibody with 10(-5) M of the antigenic peptide, and that it could not be observed in sections of the Y1 KO mouse. In contrast, the staining obtained with an N-terminally directed Y1R antiserum did not disappear, strongly suggesting unspecificity. In brief, very high levels of Y1R-LI were seen in the islands of Calleja, the anterior olfactory nucleus, the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus, parts of the habenula, the interpeduncular nucleus, the mammillary body, the spinal nucleus of the trigeminal, caudal part, the paratrigeminal nucleus, and superficial layers of the dorsal horn. High levels were found in most cortical areas, many thalamic nuclei, some subnuclei of the amygdaloid complex, the hypothalamus and the nucleus of the stria terminalis, the nucleus of the solitary tract, the parabrachial nucleus, and the inferior olive. Moderate levels of Y1R-LI were detected in the cornu Ammonis and the subicular complex, many septal, some thalamic and many brainstem regions. Y1R staining of processes, often fiber and/or dot-like, and occasional cell bodies was also seen in tracts, such as the lateral lemniscus, the rubrospinal tract and the spinal tract of the trigeminal. There was in general a good overlap between Y1R-LI and NPY-LI, but some exceptions were found. Thus, some areas had NPY innervation but apparently lacked Y1Rs, whereas in other regions Y1R-LI, but no or only few NPY-positive nerve endings could be detected. Our results demonstrate that NPY signalling through the Y1R is common in the rat (and mouse) CNS. Mostly the Y1R is postsynaptic but there are also presynaptic Y1Rs. Mostly there is a good match between NPY-releasing nerve endings and Y1Rs, but 'volume transmission' may be 'needed' in some regions. Finally, the importance of using proper control experiments for immunohistochemical studies on seven-transmembrane receptors is stressed.
The vanilloid receptor subtype 1 (VR1) is expressed in a sub-population of small dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurones in mammals and serves as the common transducer of the pain-producing signals, such as noxious heat, acids and capsaicin [Caterina et al., Nature 389 (1997) 816-824; Tominaga et al., Neuron 21 (1998) 531-543]. On the extracellular side, VR1 has three cysteine residues at positions 616, 621 and 634. Here we report that dithiothreitol (DTT) (2-60 mM), an agent that maintains -SH groups of cysteines in a reduced state, greatly facilitates membrane currents induced by noxious heat or capsaicin (1 microM) in cultured DRG neurones from the rat and in VR1-transfected HEK293 cells. The effects of DTT are concentration-dependent and fully reversible. We suggest that the ratio between free sulfhydryl groups and disulfide bonds of the cysteine residues of VR1 pre-sets sensitivity of primary nociceptors to algogens and may represent a new target for treating some pain states in humans.
Intracellular recordings were made from neurones in laminae I and II of the dorsal horn of a longitudinal, parasagittal spinal cord slice from the neonatal rat. Their responses to peripheral nerve stimulation were first tested. Then the responses to bath application of [Sar(9),Met(O(2))(11)]-substance P and [D-Ala(2),N-MePhe(4),Gly-ol(5)]-enkephalin, neurokinin 1 (NK(1)) and mu-opioid receptor agonists respectively, were studied. Finally, the structure of each neurone was investigated by injecting neurobiotin intracellularly following recording, and immunocytochemical studies were performed on post-fixed tissues to reveal whether they expressed the NK(1) receptor. Nine lamina I neurones where shown to express NK(1) receptor and these were depolarised by [Sar(9),Met(O(2))(11)]-substance P. These neurones typically received a powerful C-fibre input that was strongly inhibited, presynaptically, by the mu-opioid receptor agonist.The structure, afferent input, opioid sensitivity and intrinsic properties of these neurones are all consistent with the view that they are a major relay for nociceptive information leading to intense pain. The characteristics of 10 other neurones studied in which the NK(1) receptor was not found to be expressed at levels detectable by immunocytochemistry are briefly described for comparison. These results contribute to the emergent view that the large neurones in the most dorsal neuronal layer (lamina I) of the spinal cord, which express the principal receptor for substance P (NK(1)) over their entire soma and dendrites, are a major relay for information leading to intense pain. Inhibition of the relay of information by these neurones would be predicted to result in analgesia and hence, a detailed knowledge of their unique neurochemical characteristics is of paramount importance.
We examined the effects of the activation of metabotropic P2Y receptors on the intracellular Ca(2+) concentration and the release of neuropeptide calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) in isolated adult rat dorsal root ganglion neurons. In small-sized dorsal root ganglion neurons (soma diameter&lt;30 microm) loaded with fura-2, a bath application of ATP (100 microM) evoked an increase in intracellular Ca(2+) concentration, while the removal of extracellular Ca(2+) partly depressed the response to ATP, thus suggesting that the ATP-induced increase in intracellular Ca(2+) concentration is due to both the release of Ca(2+) from intracellular stores and the influx of extracellular Ca(2+). Bath application of uridine 5'-triphosphate (UTP; 100 microM) also caused an increase in intracellular Ca(2+) concentration in small-sized dorsal root ganglion neurons and the P2 receptor antagonists suramin (100 microM) and pyridoxalphosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulfonic acid (PPADS; 10 microM) virtually abolished the response, indicating that the intracellular Ca(2+) elevation in response to UTP is mediated through metabotropic P2Y receptors. This intracellular Ca(2+) increase was abolished by pretreating the neurons with thapsigargin (100 nM), suggesting that the UTP-induced increase in intracellular Ca(2+) is primarily due to the release of Ca(2+) from endoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+) stores. An enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay showed that an application of UTP (100 microM) significantly stimulated the release of CGRP and that suramin (100 microM) totally abolished the response, suggesting that P2Y receptor-mediated increase in intracellular Ca(2+) is accompanied by CGRP release from dorsal root ganglion neurons. These results suggest that metabotropic P2Y receptors contribute to extracellular ATP-induced increase in intracellular Ca(2+) concentration and subsequent release of neuropeptide CGRP in rat dorsal root ganglion neurons.
Axonal injury has been proposed as the basis of permanent deficits in the inflammatory, demyelinating disease, multiple sclerosis. However, reports on the degree of injury are highly variable, and the responsible mechanisms are poorly understood. We examined the relationships among long-term demyelination, inflammation, axonal injury, and motor function in a model of multiple sclerosis, in which mice develop chronic, immune-mediated demyelination of the spinal cord resulting from persistent infection with Theiler's virus. We studied two strains of mice, inbred SJL/J and C57BL/6x129 mice deficient in beta(2)-microglobulin and therefore CD8 lymphocytes. After 8 months of disease, SJL mice had considerably worse motor function than beta(2)-microglobulin-deficient mice. Motor dysfunction correlated linearly with the extent of demyelinated lesions in the spinal cord (lesion load) within each strain, but no difference in lesion load was present between strains. Also, the extent of remyelination did not differ between strains. Instead, the disparity in motor deficits reflected differences in the integrity of descending neurons. That is, retrograde labeling of reticulospinal, vestibulospinal, and rubrospinal neurons, although reduced in all chronically diseased mice, was two to seven times higher in beta(2)-microglobulin-deficient mice. The labeling was superior in beta(2)-microglobulin-deficient mice despite the fact that lesion expanse and therefore the number of axons traversing lesions were similar in both strains. Thus, by all criteria axons were equivalently demyelinated in SJL and beta(2)-microglobulin-deficient mice, but the extent of axonal injury differed significantly. These results indicate that mechanisms of demyelination and axonal injury are at least partly separable, and are consistent with the hypothesis that cytotoxic CD8 lymphocytes may selectively injure demyelinated axons. Additionally, the data suggest that axonal injury obligatorily results from chronic inflammatory demyelination and significantly contributes to neurological deficits.
Mechanisms underlying neuropathic pain states are poorly understood. We have compared mechanisms mediating enhanced nociception of four established models of neuropathic pain produced by very different types of insults to the peripheral nervous system: streptozotocin-induced hyperalgesia, a model of diabetic (metabolic) peripheral neuropathy, vincristine-induced hyperalgesia, a model of chemotherapeutic agent (toxic) peripheral neuropathy, and chronic constriction injury and partial nerve ligation, models of trauma-induced painful neuropathies. All four models resulted in prolonged mechanical hyperalgesia (&gt;30% decrease in mechanical nociceptive threshold) and allodynia (detected by 10-209-mN-intensity von Frey hairs). In vincristine- and streptozotocin-induced hyperalgesia, the protein kinase A, protein kinase C and nitric oxide second messenger pathways in the periphery contributed to the hyperalgesia, while N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-mediated events were not detected. None of these second messengers nor the NMDA receptor, which can contribute to peripheral sensitization of nociceptors, contributed to chronic constriction injury- and partial nerve ligation-induced hyperalgesia. In all four models the hyperalgesia was not antagonized by peripheral administration of a mu-opioid agonist.Our findings support the presence of a common abnormality in second messenger signaling in the periphery to the maintenance of two very different models of non-traumatic neuropathic pain, not shared by models of trauma-induced neuropathic pain.
Dopaminergic projections to the forebrain arising from the mesencephalic ventral tegmentum modulate information processing in cortical and limbic sites. The lateral hypothalamus is crucial for the coordination of behavioral responses to interoceptive cues. The presence of a hypothalamic input to the ventral tegmental area has been known for some time, but the organization of this pathway has received little attention. Among the neuropeptides found in the hypothalamus are the orexins, which are selectively expressed in the lateral hypothalamus and adjacent perifornical area and are critically involved in homeostatic regulatory processes, including arousal and feeding. We examined the anatomical relationships between orexin and dopamine neurons in rats, with particular attention to characterizing the lateral hypothalamic projection to midbrain dopamine neurons. Iontophoretic deposits of the retrograde tracer FluoroGold into the ventral tegmental area revealed a large number of retrogradely-labeled cells that formed a band extending from the medial perifornical area arching dorsally over the fornix and then ventrolaterally into the lateral hypothalamus; approximately 20% of these cells expressed orexin A-like immunoreactivity. Moreover, axons that were anterogradely labeled from the lateral hypothalamus were seen throughout the ventral tegmental area, and were often in close proximity to the dendrites and somata of dopamine neurons. Dopamine and orexin fibers were found to codistribute in the medial prefrontal cortex; orexin fibers were present in lower density in the medial shell of the nucleus accumbens, and the central and posterior basolateral nuclei of the amygdala. We conclude that the lateral hypothalamic/perifornical projection represents an anatomical substrate by which interoceptive-related signals may influence forebrain dopamine function.
Differences in arrival time and intensity (or level) of sound between the ears serve as cues for localization of sound in many animals. Barn owls use interaural time difference (ITD) and interaural level difference (ILD) for localization in azimuth and elevation, respectively. The owl's brain processes these two cues in separate pathways. The nucleus laminaris is the first site that detects ITDs by methods of delay lines and coincidence detection. The nucleus ventralis lemnisci lateralis, pars posterior is the first site of processing ILDs. The two pathways merge in the inferior colliculus to give rise to sensitivity to combinations of ITD and ILD. This selectivity is relayed to the optic tectum where neurons are sensitive to both visual and auditory stimuli. The present paper reports the results of manipulating inhibition in the nucleus laminaris and its effects on the optic tectum neurons. Injection of GABA or muscimol (a GABA(A) receptor agonist) in the nucleus laminaris reduces the responses of its neurons to ITD. This finding proves that GABA(A) receptor-mediated inhibition acts on the nucleus laminaris neurons. The same treatment did not affect the neurons of the nucleus ventralis lemnisci lateralis, pars posterior, whereas it reduced the response of the optic tectum neurons to ITD-ILD pairs. We conclude that although the two pathways are independent, the process of combining ITD and ILD creates a new relationship in which the output of the neuron varies with the amplitude of either input. This conclusion is consistent with the recent finding that the combination sensitivity is due to a multiplication of ITD and ILD inputs.
The superior colliculus of higher mammals is a laminated structure of the midbrain that receives visual input in superficial layers, and visual, auditory and somatosensory input in deep layers. The superior colliculi on either side are interconnected via the intercollicular commissure, which has been proposed to play a role in visual transfer and gaze orienting. Intercollicular connections have been anatomically demonstrated in various species including macaque monkeys but not in man. Here we describe the organization of commissural connections of the superior colliculus in man. A single injection of the carbocyanine tracer 1,1'-dioctadecyl-3,3,3',3'-tetramethylindocarbocyanine perchlorate was made into the superior colliculus in five post-mortem brains. Contralateral to the injection, labelled axons formed a dense bundle in the deep collicular layers and isolated axons were present in the superficial layers. Synaptic-like boutons were found in all collicular layers. Injections placed at different rostro-caudal levels revealed a roughly topographical organization; the bulk of the labelled axons were found opposite to the injection, with a progressive decrease in labelling at more rostral and caudal levels. Our results demonstrate that superficial and, to a larger extent, deep layers participate in intercollicular connections, and suggest that visual information crosses at the collicular level.
Cholinergic and glutamatergic cells in the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus are a principal source of excitatory input to midbrain dopamine neurons projecting to the striatum. Disruption of these brainstem inputs has been shown to respectively enhance and reduce psychostimulant and opiate self-administration in rats. In the present study, d-amphetamine- and morphine-induced behaviors and dorsal striatal dopamine efflux, measured using in vivo chronoamperometry, were investigated 21 days after bilateral excitotoxic (ibotenate) lesions of the pedunculopontine in rats. Compared to sham-operated controls, pedunculopontine lesions enhanced stereotyped behaviors induced by a challenge injection of d-amphetamine (1.5 mg/kg, i.p.) to an extent that markedly interfered with the expression of locomotor behavior. A significant augmentation in striatal dopamine efflux was also observed in these lesioned animals under urethane anesthesia in response to a similar challenge injection of d-amphetamine (1.5 mg/kg, i.v.) 2 days following these behavioral observations. In direct contrast, pedunculopontine lesions in a separate group of rats significantly attenuated morphine-induced (2 mg/kg, i.p.) stereotyped activity, although no significant differences were observed in locomotion compared to sham-operated animals. Under urethane anesthesia, these lesions attenuated striatal dopamine efflux evoked by a similar challenge injection of morphine (2 mg/kg, i.v.). These findings indicate that the pedunculopontine differentially mediates the pharmacological actions of two diverse drugs of abuse on striatal dopamine neurotransmission and resultant behaviors. These results also imply that the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus may serve as a major striatal-motor interface in the processing of salient environmental stimuli, and their incentive rewarding impact on dopamine-mediated behavioral responses.
Motor-control models of basal ganglia function have emphasized disinhibition through reduction of tonic, inhibitory output. Although these models have shed important light on basal ganglia operations, evidence emerging from electrophysiological studies of behaving primates suggests that disinhibition alone may not adequately explain the role of the basal ganglia in movement. To assess this role in the rat, the most frequently used subject in studies of basal ganglia function, we recorded neuronal activity in the primary output nucleus, the substantia nigra pars reticulata, during an operant task. After rats were trained to nosepoke into an illuminated hole for access to a 10% sucrose solution delivered through a spout, single- and multiple-unit activity was recorded during 60-120 nosepoke trials. Compared to the period 60 s before the start of the first trial in the task, 110 of 225 reticulata units increased firing &gt;200% while 17 of 225 decreased to 40% of baseline. Of these 225 units, &gt;60% responded coincident with specific task events such as nosepokes and spout licking. Most nosepoke-responsive units showed either excitation (&gt;50%) or a combination of excitation and inhibition (&gt;25%) rather than inhibition alone (&gt;20%). Increases in firing were also common during approach and licking at the spout, with inhibitions alone comprising 30% of responses. In some units, there was evidence of reward-related responding, with changes occurring in anticipation of reward delivery or during the delivery of sucrose, but not the persistent licking that continued for several seconds after its offset. While 70% of units responded during both nosepokes and spout licking, changes in firing were typically unique depending on the motor behavior required (i.e. nosepoking vs. licking). Our results, which indicate a prominent role for increases in nigra reticulata activity during movement, add to growing evidence that although inhibitions may allow desired motor responses to emerge, excitations may help shape behavioral output by suppressing competing motor programs.
The pharmacological induction of rotational (circling) behavior is widely used to assess the effects of lesions to the dopaminergic system and the success of treatment strategies in rat models of Parkinson's disease. While the number of rotations under apomorphine, L-DOPA and amphetamine is related to the extent of dopamine depletion after unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesion of the nigrostriatal dopamine system, the relationship of the intensity of rotational behavior to the degree of impairment in motor behavior is unclear. The present study examined this question by correlating rotational behavior and motor abilities in a rat analogue for Parkinson's disease produced by unilateral nigrostriatal bundle lesion with 6-hydroxydopamine. Ipsiversive and contraversive rotation was measured in the rats following systemic administration of low and high doses of apomorphine, the dopamine precursor L-DOPA, and amphetamine. The motor assessment included end point and qualitative measures of fore- and hindlimbs assessed in a skilled reaching task and a skilled ladder rung walking task. The intensity of drug-induced rotation did not correlate with the measures of motor performance. We conclude that independence of rotational behavior and motor performance argues that both the assessment of 6-hydroxydopamine behavioral deficits and potential treatments for the functional deficits require comprehensive assessment, including both measures of rotation and motor behavior.
Mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons have been found to be involved in affective processes. Their implication in cognitive processes appears less well understood. The use of latent inhibition paradigms is a means of studying these kinds of processes. In this study, we investigated the involvement of dopaminergic projections in the core, the dorsomedial shell and the ventromedial shell of the nucleus accumbens, in latent inhibition in olfactory aversive learning. Variations in extracellular dopamine levels induced by an aversively conditioned olfactory stimulus were monitored in the three parts of the nucleus accumbens in the left hemisphere, after pre-exposure to the olfactory stimulus using in vivo voltammetry in freely moving rats. The parallel between dopamine changes and place preference or aversion toward the stimulus were analyzed in pre-exposed and non-pre-exposed animals. Results showed that dopaminergic neurons innervating the nucleus accumbens are differentially involved in the latent inhibition phenomenon. Dopaminergic neurons innervating the core and the dorsomedial shell subregions of the nucleus accumbens appeared to be involved in latent inhibition processes, unlike those reaching the ventromedial shell. Nonetheless dopamine in the ventromedial shell was found to be involved in affective perception of the stimulus.The present data suggest that dopaminergic neurons innervating the three nucleus accumbens subregions are functionally related to networks involved in parallel processing of the cognitive and affective values of environmental information, and that interaction between these systems, at some levels, may lead to a given behavioral output. These data may provide new insights into the pathophysiology of schizophrenic psychoses.
We examined the effects of 4-aminopyridine (4-AP) on isolated horizontal (superficial, middle and deep) rat neocortical slices in order to study laminar synchronous network behavior directly. Application of 4-AP induced spontaneous synchronized activity in all of these types of slices. In middle and deep layer slices the activities were similar to those of coronal slices, consisting of periodic short- and long-duration discharges. In superficial slices distinct spontaneous rhythmic multiphasic burst discharges were induced. Ionotropic glutamate receptor antagonists blocked the 4-AP-induced synchronous activities in middle and deep layer slices, but those in superficial slices persisted. The GABA(A) receptor antagonist picrotoxin suppressed this spontaneous synchronous activity resistant to 3-(2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)propyl-1-phosphonic acid (a NMDA receptor antagonist) and 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (a non-NMDA receptor antagonist), in superficial slices, leaving small, slow spontaneous events. In superficial slices with intact excitatory amino acid transmission, picrotoxin attenuated the 4-AP-induced spontaneous synchronous discharges, even in this highly convulsant environment. By contrast, conventional coronal slices showed robust spontaneous epileptiform discharges under these circumstances. In intact coronal slices focal 4-AP application in superficial layers induced spontaneous inhibitory GABAergic events, while delivery into deep layers led to epileptiform discharges. From these results we conclude that: (1) 4-AP-induced population discharges are driven by glutamatergic transmission in middle and deep layer horizontal slices, and by GABAergic transmission in superficial layers; (2) only superficial layers are capable of supporting synchronized GABAergic activity independent of excitatory amino acid transmission; (3) superficial layers do not sustain epileptiform activity in the absence of deep layer neurons; and (4) synchronized superficial networks can inhibit deep layer neuronal activity.
Five different genes encode the muscarinic acetylcholine receptors. The muscarinic receptor subtypes M1, M3, and M5 are typically coupled to activation of the Galpha(q/11)-phosphatidyl inositol pathway, whereas the M2 and M4 subtypes are typically linked to Galpha(i) and adenylyl cyclase inhibition. In order to localize muscarinic receptors in the rat cochlea, we applied polyclonal antibodies for subtypes M1, M2, M3, and M5, and monoclonal antibody for subtype M4 to paraffin sections. In the organ of Corti, outer hair cells exhibited strong immunoreactivity for M3 and weak immunoreactivity for M1. Deiters' cells were strongly immunoreactive to antibodies for the M1 and M2 subtypes, with weak staining observed for M3, and weaker yet for M5. Inner hair cells showed moderate immunoreactivity for the M1 subtype, weaker staining for the M5 subtype, and slight staining for the M3 subtype. Among the spiral ganglion neurons, weak to moderate immunoreactivity was detected for M3 and M5 subtypes and weak staining was observed for the M1 subtype. The efferent fibers of the intraganglionic spiral bundle were positive for M2 and M5. In the lateral wall, weak to moderate staining was detected for M5 in the stria vascularis corresponding in position to the basolateral extensions of marginal cells. Staining for M3 was observed associated with capillaries. Fibrocytes of the spiral ligament exhibited limited but selective subtype immunoreactivity. No immunoreactivity was detected in the cochlea for the M4 subtype. From the present findings we suggest that M3 is the primary muscarinic receptor subtype in outer hair cells mediating a postsynaptic response to the medial olivocochlear cholinergic efferent input. The muscarinic receptor subtypes M1, M3, and M5 appear to subserve the action of cholinergic lateral olivocochlear efferent stimulation on postsynaptic responses in type I afferents. Whether M1, M3, and M5 protein in inner hair cells indicates constitutive or vestigial expression remaining from development is unknown. M2 and M5 muscarinic receptors expressed presynaptically may modulate the efferent signal. Finally, expression by Deiters' cells of several muscarinic subtypes raises the possibility that cholinergic efferents couple to these non-sensory cells through muscarinic receptors.
In vitro intracellular studies have shown that norepinephrine modulates cellular excitability and synaptic transmission in the cortex. Based on these effects, norepinephrine has been proposed to enhance the signal-to-noise ratio and to improve functional selectivity by potentiating strong synaptic responses and reducing weak ones. Here we have studied the functional effects of iontophoretic applications of norepinephrine during in vivo extracellular and intracellular recordings from neurons of the primary visual cortex of kittens and adult cats. Analysis of extracellular data concentrated on norepinephrine-induced changes in spontaneous and evoked activities, in signal-to-noise ratio, and in orientation and direction selectivity. Analysis of the intracellular data concentrated on actions of norepinephrine on spike firing accommodation, which has been shown to be reduced by norepinephrine in vitro, and on synaptic responses. Application of norepinephrine resulted in a depression of both spontaneous and evoked spiking activity. However, no systematic change in signal-to-noise ratio was observed. The suppressive effect of norepinephrine was exerted with no significant sharpening of direction or orientation selectivity tuning. The overall reduction in visual activity by norepinephrine affected the orientation tuning curves in a way compatible with a divisive effect, that is a normalization or gain control with no change in tuning width. Norepinephrine applied during intracellular recordings reduced the visually evoked depolarizing potentials whereas no change in the responsiveness of the cell to current-induced depolarizations was observed. In conditions of optimal visual stimulation which produced large depolarizations of several hundreds of milliseconds and sustained repetitive firing comparable to that obtained by direct current injection, we were unable to observe a facilitation of the evoked responses by norepinephrine as it would be expected from the well-documented increase in excitability induced by norepinephrine in vitro. In conclusion, from these results we suggest that norepinephrine released in the primary visual cortex primarily reduces the level of cortical activation by afferent signals, without affecting the cortical functional selectivity nor increasing the signal-to-noise ratio.
Mutations in dystrophin cause muscular dystrophy but also affect the CNS, including information processing in the retina. To better understand the molecular basis of these CNS deficits, we analyzed the molecular composition and developmental appearance of dystrophin and of the dystrophin-associated protein complex (DPC) in the embryonic and adult avian retina. We detected a concentration of the DPC at the vitreal border and in the outer plexiform layer of the adult retina. At both locations the complex had a different molecular composition and different developmental expression pattern. At the vitreal border, the complex was composed of utrophin, alpha-dystrobrevin-1, and dystroglycan, and was present at all stages of retinal development even before neurogenesis and gliogenesis. On the other hand, the complex in the outer plexiform layer consisted of dystrophin, beta-dystrobrevin and dystroglycan. The distribution of this complex changed from a diffusely distributed to an aggregated form during development concomitant with synapse formation in the outer plexiform layer. Solubilization of the retinal extracellular matrix by intravitreal injection of collagenase resulted in a redistribution of the complex at the retinal vitreal border but had no influence on the distribution of the dystrophin-associated proteins in the outer plexiform layer. These results demonstrate two types of dystrophin-like complexes in the chick retina with differential molecular compositions, different anchorage to the extracellular matrix, and different developmental expression patterns, suggesting distinct functions for the DPC at both locations.
Recent studies of the accessory olfactory bulb have shown that the expression of immediate-early genes, e.g., c-fos, c-jun and egr-1, can be used as a marker of neuronal activity in response to pheromonal cues. In this study, we analyzed the expression pattern, in response to mating, of the novel immediate-early gene product Arc (an activity-regulated cytoskeleton-associated protein). Arc is hypothesized to play a role in activity-dependent neuronal plasticity in the hippocampus. In a control group of male rats, only a small number of Arc-immunoreactive cells were observed in the accessory olfactory bulb. In a mating group, however, a marked increase in the number of Arc-immunoreactive cells was observed only in the granule cell layer of the accessory olfactory bulb. The increase in the number of Arc-immunoreactive cells after mating was similar to that observed for other immediate-early genes. However, for the mating group, the increase in Arc-positive cells was limited to the granule cell layer. Granule cells have been shown to exhibit a strong synaptic plasticity in response to pheromonal stimulation. From these findings we suggest that Arc plays an important role in neuronal plasticity in the accessory olfactory bulb.
GABA, the major inhibitory neurotransmitter involved in information processing in the olfactory bulb, is hypothesized to act through GABA(B) receptors by depressing primary neurotransmitter release at the level of olfactory nerve axon endings. The present study was designed to analyze GABA(B) receptor-mediated inhibition mechanisms by performing whole-cell patch-clamp recordings of mitral/tufted cell activity in the rat in vitro. To do so, GABA(B) receptor-mediated action was mimicked by baclofen and antagonized by saclofen. Our protocol led us to provide an original description of GABA(B) receptor-mediated inhibition exerted on mitral/tufted cells. First, their spontaneous activity was shown to be drastically abolished by baclofen. Second, their responses to olfactory nerve electrical stimulation were graded by GABA(B) receptor-mediated inhibition. Indeed, this inhibition may be described as inducing effects ranked from a slight increase in response latency to a complete response suppression.Altogether, our results corroborate the hypothesis of a presynaptic extrasynaptic GABA(B) receptor-mediated inhibition influencing mitral/tufted cell olfactory nerve responsivity. However, the involvement of postsynaptic receptors, with different properties or with different anatomical locations, cannot be ruled out, particularly in the control of spontaneous activity. In conclusion, we underline that, in the vertebrate olfactory bulb, GABA(B) receptor-mediated action appears to contribute to make mitral/tufted cell responses more salient by reducing their resting activity.
GABA is the main inhibitory neurotransmitter of the CNS. It is well established that activation of GABA(A) receptors favors sleep. Three generations of hypnotics are based on these GABA(A) receptor-mediated inhibitory processes. The first and second generation of hypnotics (barbiturates and benzodiazepines respectively) decrease waking, increase slow-wave sleep and enhance the intermediate stage situated between slow-wave sleep and paradoxical sleep, at the expense of this last sleep stage. The third generation of hypnotics (imidazopyridines and cyclopyrrolones) act similarly on waking and slow-wave sleep but the slight decrease of paradoxical sleep during the first hours does not result from an increase of the intermediate stage. It has been shown that GABA(B) receptor antagonists increase brain-activated behavioral states (waking and paradoxical sleep: dreaming stage). Recently, a specific GABA(C) receptor antagonist was synthesized and found by i.c.v. infusion to increase waking at the expense of slow-wave sleep and paradoxical sleep. Since the sensitivity of GABA(C) receptors for GABA is higher than that of GABA(A) and GABA(B) receptors, GABA(C) receptor agonists and antagonists, when available for clinical practice, could open up a new era for therapy of troubles such as insomnia, epilepsy and narcolepsy. They could possibly act at lower doses, with fewer side effects than currently used drugs. This paper reviews the influence of different kinds of molecules that affect sleep and waking by acting on GABA receptors.
Electrophysiological analysis of human embryonic kidney 293 cells stably expressing recombinant channels was used to compare how the biophysical properties of the low-voltage-activated Ca(2+) channels encoded by the alpha(1G) (Ca(V)3.1) or alpha(1I) (Ca(V)3.3) subunits shape their responses to excitatory synaptic potentials. In medium containing 2 mM extracellular Ca(2+) standard current-voltage relationships demonstrated both channel types to be clearly low-voltage activated with significant slowly activating current responses being observed at -66 mV. At all test potentials examined, activation of Ca(V)3.3 was substantially slower than that of Ca(V)3.1. To probe how these different T-type channels might respond to excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs), mock EPSPs with different kinetic profiles were created from the sum of exponentials. These waveforms were then used as command templates in voltage-clamp experiments. Ca(V)3.1-mediated channels responded effectively to both rapidly decaying mock EPSPs and slowly decaying EPSPs. In contrast, Ca(V)3.3-mediated channels were poorly gated by rapidly decaying EPSPs but were effectively activated by the more prolonged synaptic response. When activated with mock EPSPs Ca(V)3.3-mediated currents were more resistant to steady-state depolarisation of the pre-stimulus holding potential. Ca(V)3.3 currents were also more resistant to repetitive application of prolonged EPSPs, which caused substantial inactivation of Ca(V)3.1-mediated currents. The addition of a single mock action potential to the peak of a rapidly decaying EPSP voltage-clamp template greatly enhanced the currents produced by either Ca(V)3.1 or Ca(V)3.3-expressing cells. This facilitatory effect was considerably greater for Ca(V)3.3-mediated channels. From these data we suggest that the slow activation kinetics of Ca(V)3.3-mediated T-type channels enable them to respond selectively to either slow or suprathreshold synaptic potentials.
Previous experiments have shown that prolonged low frequency stimulation of presynaptic inputs causes excitation of AH neurones that considerably outlasts the period of stimulation in the guinea-pig small intestine. The present experiments compare the responses of S neurones (which are motor neurones and interneurones) with responses of AH neurones (intrinsic primary afferent neurones) to low frequency stimulation of synaptic inputs. Neurones in the myenteric plexus of isolated segments of guinea-pig small intestine were recorded from with intracellular microelectrodes. During their impalement, the neurones were filled with a marker dye and they were later processed to reveal their shapes and immunohistochemical properties. One group of neurones, inhibitory motor neurones to the circular muscle, was depolarised by stimulation of synaptic inputs at 1 Hz for 100 s to 4 min. With 4-min trains of stimuli, peak depolarisation was 21+/-2 mV (mean+/-S.E.M.), which was reached at about 110 s. Depolarisation was accompanied by increased excitability; before stimulation, a test intracellular pulse (500 ms) triggered 3 action potentials, at the peak of excitability this reached 16 action potentials. Depolarisation began to decline immediately at the end of stimulation. This contrasts with responses of AH neurones, in which depolarisation persisted after the end of the stimulus (peak depolarisation at 300 s). The excitation and depolarisation of inhibitory motor neurones was blocked by the neurokinin 1 tachykinin receptor antagonist, SR140333 (100 nM), but excitation of AH neurones was not affected. Small or no responses to 1 Hz stimulation were recorded from descending filamentous interneurones, longitudinal muscle motor neurones and excitatory circular muscle motor neurones. In conclusion, this study indicates that sustained slow postsynaptic excitation only occurs in AH neurones, and that one type of S neurones, inhibitory motor neurones to the circular muscle, responds substantially, but not beyond the period of stimulation, to activation of synaptic inputs at 1 Hz. This slow excitatory postsynaptic potential evoked by low frequency stimulation is mediated by tachykinins.
Neuronal population discharges within the CNS and in somatic and sympathetic motor nerves often display oscillations. Peripheral oscillations may provide a window into central mechanisms, as they often show coherence with population activity of subsets of central neurones. The reduction in heat loss through the cutaneous circulation during fever may be mediated via sympathetic premotor neurones not utilised during normal temperature regulation. Consequently, here we assessed, in anaesthetised rats, whether the frequency signature of population sympathetic discharge observed in neurones innervating the tail (thermoregulatory) circulation changed during a fever-like response induced by intracerebroventricular injection of prostaglandin E(1). We found that when core temperature was raised to 38.8-40.5 degrees C sympathetic activity was abolished. Following administration of prostaglandin (400 ng or 1 microg per rat), activity was restored to levels seen prior to heating (154+/-53.5%; n=10). Injection of vehicle had no effect (n=7). Prior to heating when most animals were in central apnoea (14/18) two peaks were observed in autospectra of sympathetic activity: one at 0.68-0.93 Hz (T-peak) and another at the frequency of ventilation (2 Hz). Central respiratory drive was recruited during hyperthermia where it was 1:2 locked to the frequency of ventilation and following prostaglandin administration, an additional peak in sympathetic autospectra was seen at this frequency. Time-evolving spectra indicated that this peak resulted from the dynamic locking of the 'T-peak' to central respiratory drive. Our data show that during a fever-like response the dominant oscillations in sympathetic activity controlling a thermoregulatory circulation and their dynamic coupling to respiratory-related inputs are similar to those seen under normal conditions. Therefore, during this fever-like response, the neural substrate(s) underlying the oscillations is not reconfigured and remains capable of sculpturing the pattern of sympathetic neuronal discharge that may be regulated by several descending pathways.
Vagal efferent neurons innervating the digestive tract are mainly contained in the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus. Previous studies have suggested that neurokinins and their neurokinin-1 and neurokinin-3 receptors are involved in the parasympathetic control of digestive functions. The purpose of the present study was to analyze the distribution of neurokinin-1 and neurokinin-3 receptors amongst vagal efferent neurons innervating the stomach, the duodenum, the ileum and the cecum. The immunocytochemical detection of neurokinin-1 and neurokinin-3 receptors was combined with the immunocytochemical detection of retrogradely transported cholera toxin-B subunit, previously injected in the gut wall. Neurokinin-1 and neurokinin-3 receptors were present in 19+/-7% and 8+/-3% of retrogradely labeled neurons innervating the stomach. Almost half of the labeled neurons innervating the duodenum (46+/-7%) expressed neurokinin-1 receptors but less than 0.5% contained neurokinin-3 receptors. None of the retrogradely labeled vagal efferent neurons innervating the ileum and the cecum were immunoreactive for neurokinin-1 and neurokinin-3 receptors. We conclude that neurokinin-1 and neurokinin-3 receptors are located on vagal efferent neurons which innervate the stomach and that neurokinin-1 receptors are common, whereas neurokinin-3 receptors are rare on neurons projecting to the duodenum. Additionally, the distal part of the rat small intestine is innervated by vagal efferent neurons that do not express neurokinins receptors on their membrane. This suggests that neurokinins may influence the parasympathetic control of different regions of the gastro-intestinal tract in specific ways.
Adult rat sensory neurones were maintained in short-term tissue culture and their response to histamine was studied by monitoring changes in intracellular [Ca(2+)] with Fura-2. The proportion of histamine-sensitive neurones increased as the concentration increased from 10 microM to 10 mM. The fraction of responding cells did not change significantly over the first week in culture. About 60% of histamine-sensitive cells were insensitive to capsaicin and these cells tended to be of small diameter. The integrated calcium response to histamine was greatest at 100 microM when the response consisted of two phases: an initial short-lasting transient followed by a sustained plateau that was dependent on extracellular calcium. This response was blocked by the histamine H(1) receptor antagonist mepyramine but not by cimetidine or thioperamide which block H(2) and H(3) receptors, respectively. Moreover, application of histamine increased the intracellular concentration of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate -- an effect blocked by mepyramine. These data show that the response is mediated by H(1) receptors. The phospholipase C inhibitor U73122 blocked the response to 100 microM histamine and significantly reduced the fraction of cells responding to 1 mM and 10 mM histamine as did removal of extracellular calcium. A combination of U73122 and calcium-free medium abolished all responses to histamine. These data suggest that in addition to activating phospholipase C, high concentrations of histamine gate an influx of calcium that is independent of store depletion. The implications of these results for the transduction of pruritic stimuli is discussed.
Our previous findings showed that the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS) mediated part of the tachycardia evoked during somatic noxious stimulation. Here, we investigated the interaction between somatic nociceptor- and peripheral chemoreceptor-evoked cardiac changes. We sought to determine whether this interaction occurred within the NTS, the primary site of termination of chemoreceptor afferents. In a working heart-brainstem preparation of rat, mechanical noxious activation of a forelimb evoked a tachycardia of 17.5+/-3 (mean+/-S.E.M.) b.p.m., whereas sodium cyanide (7-30 microg) stimulation of peripheral chemoreceptors produced a sub-maximal bradycardia of -140+/-15 b.p.m. During nociceptor stimulation the sodium cyanide-evoked bradycardia was attenuated to -42.6+/-12 b.p.m. but could be prevented by a multiple bilateral NTS microinjection of bicuculline (i.e. -173+/-18 b.p.m.). Furthermore, the activity of NTS neurones responding to peripheral chemoreceptor stimulation increased from 2.8+/-1.3 to 9.4+/-1.9 Hz during sodium cyanide injection (n=7; P&lt;0.01). The latter response was attenuated reversibly to 2.9+/-0.9 Hz during simultaneous stimulation of the brachial nerve. Pressure ejection of bicuculline abolished this inhibitory action of brachial-nerve stimulation on the chemoreceptor-evoked excitatory synaptic response. We conclude that somatic noxious stimulation attenuates the chemoreceptor reflex-evoked bradycardia via a GABA(A)ergic mechanism in the NTS.
Considerable evidence has focused on the interaction between endogenous opioid peptides and the dopaminergic mesocorticolimbic system in behavioral responses to stress. Recently, it has been proposed that the CNS synthesizes and secretes neuropeptides that act as part of a homeostatic system to attenuate the effects of morphine or endogenous opioid peptides. Among these antiopioids, neuropeptide FF (NPFF) is particularly interesting since both NPFF immunoreactive-like terminals and NPFF binding sites are located in the vicinity of the dopaminergic cell bodies within the ventral tegmental area (VTA) suggesting an interaction at this level. The purpose of the present study was to evaluate the respective implication of opioid and antiopioid peptides at the level of the VTA in the locomotor response to novelty in rats. The results indicate that s.c. naloxone pretreatment, an opiate receptor antagonist, reduced locomotor activity in rats placed in a novel environment without having any effect in a familiar environment. This effect takes place in the VTA since intra-VTA administration of naloxone methobromide diminished similarly and dose-dependently the motor response to novelty. This effect is mainly dependent on opioid peptides released at VTA level since local injections of thiorphan, an inhibitor of enkephalin degradation, strongly increased locomotor response to novelty and this effect is completely prevented by the co-administration of naloxone methobromide. When injected in the VTA, NPFF is acting as an antiopioid compound, i.e. it reduces the locomotor activity triggered by exposure to novelty to the level recorded in a familiar environment. Moreover, NPFF decreased dose-dependently the potentiation of novelty-induced locomotor response produced by VTA injection of thiorphan. Taken together, these results suggest that NPFF neurons may participate at the level of the VTA to a homeostatic regulating process counteracting opioid effects induced by a mild stress such as novelty.
Pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating peptide is densely distributed in the suprachiasmatic nucleus, which functions as the circadian pacemaker. A receptor for pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating peptide, denoted as PAC(1), exists in six variant forms. We used reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction to identify the PAC(1) variants that are expressed in the suprachiasmatic nucleus. Dominant variant forms of PAC(1) in the suprachiasmatic nucleus were PAC(1)short, PAC(1)hip, and PAC(1)hop1. By in situ hybridization, we examined 24-h profiles of mRNAs for the identified receptor variants in the suprachiasmatic nucleus in constant darkness and during the light-dark cycle. In constant darkness there were clear circadian rhythms in PAC(1)short mRNA with a peak at circadian time 4 but no rhythmicity was observed in PAC(1)hip mRNA or PAC(1)hop1 mRNA. In light-dark cycles, on the other hand, PAC(1)hip mRNA displayed a bimodal rhythm with troughs at zeitgeber time 4 and 16 but PAC(1)hop1 mRNA stayed constant during the day. These results suggest that PAC(1) splice variants are differentially regulated in the rat suprachiasmatic nucleus.
The aim of the present work was to determine whether paraventricular neurons possess functional acetylcholine nicotinic receptors. Using infrared videomicroscopy and differential interference contrast optics, we performed whole-cell recordings in hypothalamic slices containing the paraventricular nucleus. Acetylcholine, locally applied by pressure microejection in the presence of the muscarinic antagonist atropine, evoked a rapidly rising inward current in paraventricular magnocellular endocrine neurons. This current persisted in the presence of blockers of synaptic transmission. It could be reversibly suppressed by nanomolar concentrations of methyllycaconitine, a selective antagonist of alpha 7-containing nicotinic receptors, but was insensitive to micromolar concentrations of dihydro-beta-erythroidine, an antagonist acting preferentially on non-alpha 7 nicotinic receptors. In addition, the effect of acetylcholine could be mimicked by exo-2-(2-pyridyl)-7-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptane, a recently synthesized nicotinic agonist specific for alpha 7 receptors. Acetylcholine also desensitized paraventricular nicotinic receptors. Desensitization was pronounced and recovery from desensitization was rapid, consistent with the notion that paraventricular nicotinic receptors contain the alpha 7 subunit. Nicotinic currents could not be evoked in paraventricular parvocellular neurons, suggesting that these neurons are devoid of functional nicotinic receptors. The electrophysiological data were corroborated by light microscopic autoradiography, showing that [(125)I]alpha-bungarotoxin binding sites are present in all the magnocellular divisions of the paraventricular nucleus but are undetectable in other areas of this nucleus. Immunohistochemistry, performed using antibodies directed against vasopressin and oxytocin, indicated that responsiveness to nicotinic agonists was a property of vasopressin as well as of oxytocin magnocellular endocrine neurons, in both the paraventricular and the supraoptic nucleus. We conclude that nicotinic agonists can influence the magnocellular neurosecretory system by directly increasing the excitability of magnocellular neurons. By contrast, they are probably without direct effects on paraventricular parvocellular neurons.
Neurons expressing the preprotachykinin A gene, which encodes the sequences of substance P, neurokinin A, neuropeptide gamma and neuropeptide K, exemplify peptide co-existence. Furthermore, there is also evidence that substance P fragments have biological activity. However, the relative contribution of each of these peptides to tachykinin signalling is still poorly understood. An important factor which will determine the characteristics of the signal mediated by co-localised peptides is their clearance from the extracellular space. The striatum, in which tachykinins are present and exert neuromodulatory roles, can be used as a model to investigate this aspect. Therefore, in this study we characterised in vivo in the striatum the metabolism and clearance of substance P and of the other three co-expressed peptides. After intrastriatal administration of 1 pmol, tritiated substance P disappeared too rapidly for metabolites to be detected. However, when 10 nmol substance P and 1 pmol tritiated substance P were co-injected, substance P(1-4) and substance P(1-7), which are biologically active, were detected as major metabolites. Under these conditions, the rate of decay of tritiated substance P was 0.2 nmol/min. The effects of the peptidase inhibitors thiorphan, bestatin and captopril suggested that neutral endopeptidase 24.11 and aminopeptidases were involved in primary substance P cleavages, whereas angiotensin-converting enzyme was involved in secondary cleavages. The monitoring of the decay of unlabelled substance P by high-performance liquid chromatography gave a rate of 0.16 nmol/min. Using high-performance liquid chromatography with capillary electrophoresis, the rates of decay of 10 nmol neurokinin A or neuropeptide gamma were five and seven times faster than that of substance P. In contrast, over the time course of the experiment, no significant decay of neuropeptide K was detected. These results show that substance P disappears rapidly from the extracellular space, and supports the formation in vivo of major N-terminal active substance P metabolites. Our study also highlights significant differences in the clearance of co-expressed tachykinins and suggests that certain species may disappear relatively slowly from the extracellular space, and thus may make a significant temporal and spatial contribution to signalling.
The ventral striatum is the part of the striatum associated with reward and goal-directed behaviors, which are mediated in part by inputs from the amygdala. The ventral striatum is divided into 'shell' and 'core' subterritories which have different connectional, histochemical and pharmacological properties. Behavioral studies also indicate that subterritories of the ventral striatum are differentially involved in specific goal-directed behaviors. The amygdala is a heterogeneous structure which has multiple nuclei involved in processing emotional information. While the existence of an amygdalostriatal pathway has long been established, the relationship between amygdaloid afferents and specific subterritories of the ventral striatum is not known. In this study we operationally defined the ventromedial striatum as the region receiving cortical inputs primarily from the orbital and medial prefrontal cortex. We placed retrograde tracer injections into subregions of the ventromedial striatum of macaques monkeys to determine the relative contribution of specific amygdaloid inputs to each region. Calbindin-D28k immunostaining was used to further define the shell subterritory of the ventromedial striatum. Based on these definitions, the amygdala innervates the entire ventromedial striatum, and has few to no inputs to the central striatum. The basal and accessory basal nuclei are the major source of input to the ventromedial striatum, innervating both the shell and ventromedial striatum outside the shell. However, a restricted portion of the dorsomedial shell receives few basal nucleus inputs. Afferent inputs from the basal nucleus subdivisions are arranged such that the parvicellular subdivision projects mainly to the ventral shell and core, and the magnocellular subdivision targets the ventral shell and ventromedial putamen. In contrast, the intermediate subdivision of the basal nucleus projects broadly across the ventromedial striatum avoiding only the dorsomedial shell. The shell has a specific set of connections derived from the medial part of the central nucleus and periamygdaloid cortex. Within the shell, the dorsomedial region is distinguished by additional inputs from the medial nucleus. The ventromedial caudate nucleus forms a unique transition zone with the shell, based on inputs from the periamygdaloid cortex. Together, these results indicate that subterritories of the ventromedial striatum are differentially modulated by amygdaloid nuclei which play roles in processing olfactory, visual/gustatory, multimodal sensory, and 'drive'-related stimuli.
The dopaminergic innervation of the developing caudate-putamen (patches and matrix) and nucleus accumbens (shell and core) of the rat was examined with light and electron microscope immunocytochemistry, using antibodies against dopamine. Light microscopic analysis showed, in accordance with previous studies, that early in life, dopaminergic fibers were relatively thick and present throughout the striatum. Their distribution was heterogeneous, showing dense aggregations, the so-called dopamine islands. The pattern of innervation became more uniform during the third postnatal week with most of the dopamine islands no longer detectable. For electron microscopic analysis, parts of the caudate-putamen containing dopamine islands or matrix, and of the nucleus accumbens, from the shell and the core of the nucleus, were selected. This analysis revealed that symmetrical synapses between immunoreactive profiles and unlabeled dendritic shafts predominated throughout development but, at the late stages, symmetrical axospinous synapses also became a prominent feature. These findings indicate that: (1) although the caudate-putamen and the nucleus accumbens have different connections and functions, they exhibit similar types of dopaminergic synapses, and (2) the relatively late detection of dopaminergic axospinous synapses suggests that the development of the dopaminergic system in the striatum is an active process, which parallels the morphological changes of striatal neurons and may contribute to their maturation.
Functional studies in epileptic tissue indicate that neuropeptide Y and some of its peptide analogs potently inhibit seizure activity. We investigated seizure susceptibility in transgenic rats overexpressing the rat neuropeptide Y gene under the control of its natural promoter. Seizures were induced in adult transgenic male rats and their wild-type littermates by i.c.v. injection of 0.3 microg kainic acid or by electrical kindling of the dorsal hippocampus. Transgenic rats showed a significant reduction in the number and duration of electroencephalographic seizures induced by kainate by 30% and 55% respectively (P&lt;0.05 and 0.01). Transgenic rats were also less susceptible to epileptogenesis than wild-type littermates as demonstrated by a 65% increase in the number of electrical stimuli required to induce stage 5 seizures (P&lt;0.01). This phenotype was associated with a strong and specific expression of neuropeptide Y mRNA in area CA1, a brain area involved in the seizure network. We conclude that endogenous neuropeptide Y overexpression in the rat hippocampus is associated with inhibition of seizures and epileptogenesis suggesting that this system may be a valuable target for developing novel antiepileptic treatments.
Gene expression in neurones can vary in response to neuronal activation. In this study, to analyse the spatio-temporal dynamics of the transcriptional response of three genes following the induction of long-term potentiation within the entire dentate gyrus in vivo, two new complementary approaches based on in situ hybridisation were developed: three-dimensional reconstruction of the pattern of mRNA expression within the entire dentate gyrus; and radioactive co-detection of two mRNA species allowing quantification of two different mRNAs in the same brain section. Zif268, Homer and syntaxin 1B genes were studied, and their regulated expression was examined three times after the induction of long-term potentiation. Constitutive expression of each gene under control conditions was homogeneous, but the spatial distribution of mRNA was heterogeneous along the rostro-caudal axis of the dentate gyrus following the induction of long-term potentiation, and different for each gene. In addition, the intensity of each gene-specific pattern of expression varied over time following the induction of long-term potentiation. Our results reveal that long-term potentiation differentially modulates the expression of mRNA species in cells of the dentate gyrus depending on their position along the rostro-caudal axis, on the gene and on time. We suggest that there are several molecular mechanisms of long-term potentiation, differing from one cluster of cells of the dentate gyrus to another, or that the different signaling pathways involved in long-term potentiation are used with varying efficiencies by different cells.
The Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein phosphatase, calcineurin, modulates a number of key Ca(2+) signaling pathways in neurons, and has been implicated in Ca(2+)-dependent negative feedback inactivation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors and voltage-sensitive Ca(2+) channels. In contrast, we report here that three mechanistically disparate calcineurin inhibitors, FK-506, cyclosporin A, and the calcineurin autoinhibitory peptide, inhibited high-voltage-activated Ca(2+) channel currents by up to 40% in cultured hippocampal neurons, suggesting that calcineurin acts to enhance Ca(2+) currents. This effect occurred with Ba(2+) or Ca(2+) as charge carrier, and with or without intracellular Ca(2+) buffered by EGTA. Ca(2+)-dependent inactivation of Ca(2+) channels was not affected by FK-506. The immunosuppressant, rapamycin, and the protein phosphatase 1/2A inhibitor, okadaic acid, did not decrease Ca(2+) channel current, showing specificity for effects on calcineurin. Blockade of L-type Ca(2+) channels with nimodipine fully negated the effect of FK-506 on Ca(2+) channel current, while blockade of N-, and P-/Q-type Ca(2+) channels enhanced FK-506-mediated inhibition of the remaining L-type-enriched current. FK-506 also inhibited substantially more Ca(2+) channel current in 4-week-old vs. 2-week-old cultures, an effect paralleled by an increase in calcineurin A mRNA levels. These studies provide the first evidence that calcineurin selectively enhances L-type Ca(2+) channel activity in neurons. Moreover, this action appears to be increased concomitantly with the well-characterized increase in L-type Ca(2+) channel availability in hippocampal neurons with age-in-culture.
Amyloid beta(1-42), a major component of amyloid plaques, binds with exceptionally high affinity to the alpha 7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor and accumulates intracellularly in neurons of Alzheimer's disease brains. In this study, we investigated the possibility that this binding plays a key role in facilitating intraneuronal accumulation of amyloid beta(1-42). Consecutive section immunohistochemistry and digital imaging were used to reveal the spatial relationship between amyloid beta(1-42) and the alpha 7 receptor in affected neurons of Alzheimer's disease brains. Results showed that neurons containing substantial intracellular accumulations of amyloid beta(1-42) invariably express relatively high levels of the alpha 7 receptor. Furthermore, this receptor is highly co-localized with amyloid beta(1-42) within neurons of Alzheimer's disease brains. To experimentally test the possibility that the binding interaction between exogenous amyloid beta(1-42) and the alpha 7 receptor facilitates internalization and intracellular accumulation of amyloid beta(1-42) in Alzheimer's disease brains, we studied the fate of exogenous amyloid beta(1-42) and its interaction with the alpha 7 receptor in vitro using cultured, transfected neuroblastoma cells that express elevated levels of this receptor. Transfected cells exhibited rapid binding, internalization and accumulation of exogenous amyloid beta(1-42), but not amyloid beta(1-40). Furthermore, the rate and extent of amyloid beta(1-42) internalization was related directly to the alpha 7 receptor protein level, since (1) the rate of amyloid beta(1-42) accumulation was much lower in untransfected cells that express much lower levels of this receptor and (2) internalization was effectively blocked by alpha-bungarotoxin, an alpha 7 receptor antagonist. As in neurons of Alzheimer's disease brains, the alpha 7 receptor in transfected cells was precisely co-localized with amyloid beta(1-42) in prominent intracellular aggregates. Internalization of amyloid beta(1-42) in transfected cells was blocked by phenylarsine oxide, an inhibitor of endocytosis. We suggest that the intraneuronal accumulation of amyloid beta(1-42) in Alzheimer's disease brains occurs predominantly in neurons that express the alpha 7 receptor. In addition, internalization of amyloid beta(1-42) may be facilitated by the high-affinity binding of amyloid beta(1-42) to the alpha 7 receptor on neuronal cell surfaces, followed by endocytosis of the resulting complex. This provides a plausible explanation for the selective vulnerability of neurons expressing the alpha 7 receptor in Alzheimer's disease brains and for the fact that amyloid beta(1-42) is the dominant amyloid beta peptide species in intracellular accumulations and amyloid plaques.
Hypoxia and ischemia regulate the expression of several important genes at the level of transcription and of mRNA stability. Two isoforms of a 40-kDa poly(C)-binding protein, previously identified as RNA-binding proteins, bind to a hypoxia-inducible protein-binding site in the 3'-untranslated region of erythropoietin and tyrosine hydroxylase mRNAs and regulate mRNA stability. To determine if poly(C)-binding proteins show changes in expression -- which might regulate mRNA stability -- in hypoxic or ischemic neuronal cells, we examined poly(C)-binding protein 1 and poly(C)-binding protein 2 expression in hypoxic cortical neuron cultures and in rat cerebral cortex after focal ischemia. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and western blotting showed hypoxic up-regulation of poly(C)-binding protein 1, and down-regulation of poly(C)-binding protein 2, mRNA and protein expression. Hypoxia-inducible expression of poly(C)-binding protein 1 was mediated by p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase, while hypoxia-reducible expression of poly(C)-binding protein 2 was mediated by protein kinase C. Immunostaining showed that poly(C)-binding protein 1, but not poly(C)-binding protein 2, expression was increased in the ischemic boundary zone (penumbra) of the frontal cortex after 90 min of ischemia, and persisted for at least 72 h after reperfusion. These results demonstrate that poly(C)-binding protein 1 and poly(C)-binding protein 2 in cortical neurons are differentially affected by hypoxic/ischemic insults, suggesting that there are functional differences between poly(C)-binding protein isoforms. Since we observed no poly(C)-binding protein expression in astroglia, alternative mRNA stability mechanisms may exist in these cells.
In the present study we investigated the effects of spinal morphine on the electrically and naturally evoked responses of gracile nuclei neurones in a rat model of neuropathy, induced by the tight ligation of lumbar L5/6 spinal nerves. Two weeks after surgery, animals were prepared for electrophysiological recordings and neuronal responses were characterised to a range of controlled natural (brush, low- and high-intensity von Frey filaments, heat 45 degrees C) and peripheral electrical stimuli. Morphine (0.1, 0.25, 1 and 5 microg) was applied spinally and its effect was compared to that in sham-operated or naive animals. Following surgery, all neuropathic rats exhibited signs of mechanical allodynia. Nerve injury induced a significant increase in the receptive field size of gracile nuclei neurones, and also produced a non-significant increase in the proportion and level of spontaneous activity in these neurones. The baseline electrical and natural evoked responses remained unaltered. Spinal morphine reduced both the Adelta-fibre- and C-fibre-evoked responses of gracile nuclei neurones, and similarly inhibited the heat-evoked responses of neuropathic, sham-operated and naive rats. Morphine, however, produced only minor reductions (&lt;30% inhibition of pre-drug control responses) of the Abeta-fibre- and brush-evoked responses of gracile nuclei neurones. These drug effects were similar in all animal groups. In complete contrast, morphine produced a marked inhibition of the low-intensity punctate mechanical evoked responses (von Freys 2 and 9 g) after nerve injury, an effect that was totally lacking in the sham-operated or naive animal groups. This dramatic shift was selective for the low-intensity punctate mechanical stimuli and such an effect was not seen with the noxious mechanical punctate stimulus (von Frey 75 g) where there was a modest inhibition in all groups. Our results suggest that there is plasticity in the opioid modulation of dorsal column projection pathways following spinal nerve ligation and these alterations appear to interact with sensory pathways conveying low-threshold punctate stimuli.
Introduction of GTP-gamma-S into a neuronal cell spontaneously results in G-protein activation. A possible contribution to this mechanism is that some receptors have a constitutive activity that stimulates GDP/GTP exchange resulting in increased GTPase activity of G-protein alpha subunits, leading to a facilitation of GTP-gamma-S binding. It follows that partial or complete uncoupling of receptors and G-proteins could inhibit Ca(2+) current modulation by GTP-gamma-S. This possibility was tested in acutely isolated rat dorsal raphe neurons by uncoupling the receptor and G-protein using N-ethylmaleimide and pertussis toxin. Since these compounds have been suggested to differentially block voltage-dependent inhibition, relative to voltage-independent, we investigated whether the apparent voltage-independent component of Ca(2+) channel modulation by 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) shares the same mechanism as the voltage-dependent component. N-ethylmaleimide inhibited the response to 5-HT by about 50% but had no effect on the response to GTP-gamma-S. In dorsal raphe neurons 28.9% of the total response to 5-HT was voltage-independent. N-ethylmaleimide had identical effects on the voltage-dependent and -independent components as measured by tail current inhibition. The response to 5-HT was completely sensitive to pertussis toxin, and completely uncoupling the receptors and G-proteins did not affect the maximal response to GTP-gamma-S. Our results suggest that the apparent voltage-independent component of Ca(2+) channel modulation by 5-HT in dorsal raphe neurons might share the same mechanism as does the voltage-dependent component. In addition, these experiments provided evidence that partial or even complete uncoupling of receptors and G-proteins did not affect Ca(2+) current modulation by direct activators of G-proteins.
In the present investigation, we address the question of whether the expression of GluR2-R4 subunits mRNAs and GluR2 and GluR4 subunits protein of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate (AMPA)-selective glutamate receptors are modulated in the vestibular nuclei following unilateral labyrinthectomy. Specific GluR2-R4 radioactive oligonucleotides were used to probe sections of rat vestibular nuclei according to in situ hybridization methods. The signal was detected by means of film or emulsion photography. GluR2 and GluR4 subunit expression were also measured in control and operated rats by use of specific monoclonal GluR2 and GluR4 antibodies. Animals were killed at different stages following the lesion: 1, 3 or 8 days for the in situ hybridization study and 4 and 8 days for the immunohistochemical study. In normal animals, several brainstem regions including the lateral, medial, superior and inferior vestibular nuclei expressed all the GluR2, GluR3 and GluR4 subunit mRNAs. Moreover, numerous vestibular nuclei neurons are endowed with AMPA receptors containing the GluR2 and the GluR4 subunits. In unilaterally labyrinthectomized rats, no asymmetry could be detected on autoradiographs between the two medial vestibular nuclei probed with the GluR2 and the GluR4 oligonucleotide probes regardless of the delay following the lesion. However, compared to control, a bilateral decrease (-22%) in GluR3 gene expression was observed in the medial vestibular nuclei 3 days after the lesion followed by a return to normal at day 8 post-lesion. No significant asymmetrical changes in the density of GluR2- and GluR4-immunopositive cells could be detected between the intact and deafferented sides in any part of the vestibular nuclear complex and at any times (day 4 or day 8) following the lesion. Our data show that the removal of glutamatergic vestibular input induced an absence of modulation of GluR2 and GluR4 gene and subunits expression. This demonstrates that GluR2 and GluR4 expression do not play a role in the recovery of the resting discharge of the deafferented medial vestibular nuclei neurons and consequently in the functional restoration of the static postural and oculomotor deficits. The functional role of the slight and bilateral GluR3 mRNA decrease in the vestibular nuclei remains to be elucidated.
Dopamine-containing neurones of the ventral tegmental area express neurotensin receptors which are involved in regulating cell firing and dopamine release. Although indirect evidence suggests that some neurotensin receptors may be localised on the nerve terminals of dopaminergic neurones in the striatum and thus locally regulate dopamine release, a clear demonstration of such a mechanism is lacking and a number of indirect sites of action are possible. We have taken advantage of a simplified preparation in which cultured rat ventral tegmental area dopaminergic neurones establish nerve terminals that co-release glutamate to determine whether neurotensin can act at presynaptic sites. We recorded glutamate-mediated synaptic currents that were generated by dopaminergic nerve terminals as an index of presynaptic function. The neurotensin receptor agonist NT(8-13) caused an inward current and an enhancement of the firing rate of dopaminergic neurones together with an increase in the frequency of spontaneous glutamate receptor-mediated excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs). Incompatible with a direct excitatory action on nerve terminals, NT(8-13) failed to change the amplitude of individual action potential-evoked EPSCs or the frequency of miniature EPSCs recorded in the presence of tetrodotoxin. However, NT(8-13) reduced the ability of terminal D2 dopamine receptors to inhibit action potential-evoked EPSCs in isolated dopaminergic neurones. Taken together, our results suggest that in addition to its well-known somatodendritic excitatory effect leading to an increase in firing rate, neurotensin also acts on nerve terminals. The main effect of neurotensin on nerve terminals is not to produce a direct excitation, but rather to decrease the effectiveness of D2 receptor-mediated presynaptic inhibition.
Considerable evidence suggests that a dysfunction of the dopamine and serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine or 5-HT) neurotransmitter systems contributes to a diverse range of pathological conditions including schizophrenia, depression and drug abuse. Recent electrophysiological and behavioral studies suggest that 5-HT modulates dopaminergic neurons in the ventral tegmental area via activation of 5-HT(2A) receptors. It is currently unknown if 5-HT(2A) receptors mediate their actions on dopaminergic neurons in the ventral tegmental area via direct or indirect mechanisms. This study investigated whether 5-HT(2A) receptors were localized on dopamine cells within the A10 dopamine subnuclei of the rat, including the ventral tegmental area. We discovered that 5-HT(2A) receptor-like immunoreactivity colocalized with tyrosine hydroxylase, a marker for dopamine neurons, throughout the A10 dopamine cell population. Colocalization was most prominent in rostral and mid A10 regions, including the paranigral, parabrachial, and interfascicular subnuclei. Though more rare, non-dopaminergic neurons also expressed 5-HT(2A) receptor immunoreactivity in the ventral tegmental area. Additionally, although a dense population of 5-HT(2A) immunoreactive cells was observed in the rostral dorsal raphe nucleus, rarely were these cells immunoreactive for tyrosine hydroxylase. The linear raphe A10 dopamine subdivisions also displayed a low degree of 5-HT(2A) receptor and tyrosine hydroxylase colocalization. These findings provide an anatomical basis for the physiological modulation of dopamine neurons in the rostral ventral tegmental area either directly, by 5-HT(2A) receptors localized on dopamine cells, or indirectly, through a non-dopaminergic mechanism. Interestingly, 5-HT(2A) receptors were expressed on dopamine neurons in several A10 subnuclei that project to mesolimbic forebrain regions implicated in drug addiction, and recent evidence indicates that ventral tegmental area 5-HT(2A) receptor activation may modulate reward-related behavior in rodents. 5-HT(2A) receptors were also expressed on dopamine cells in A10 subnuclei that project to forebrain areas that have been implicated in schizophrenia, and atypical antipsychotic drugs have high affinities for 5-HT(2A) receptors. Thus, findings in this study could have important implications for understanding 5-HT and dopamine circuitry dysfunction in schizophrenia.
The hypothalamo-neurohypophysial system, containing arginine vasopressin and oxytocin, is well known to show reversible morphological reorganization for both neurons and glial cells during chronic physiological stimulation. To determine the molecular background for these morphological changes, we investigated the expression of tubulin and microtubule-associated protein (MAP) 2d in the neurohypophysial astrocytes, pituicytes of adult rats by using reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, western blot, and immunohistochemistry. The mRNA of MAP2d was expressed at higher levels than that of MAP2c in the neurohypophysis, cerebral cortex, and cerebellum. In contrast, predominant expression of mRNA of MAP2c was detected in the olfactory bulb. Western blot analysis showed the presence of MAP2d in the neurohypophysis, however the amount was below the detection level in the cerebral cortex and cerebellum. A double labeling study using a confocal laser scanning microscope showed intense tubulin immunoreactivity in the glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-positive pituicytes of the intact neurohypophysis. Almost no tubulin immunoreactivity was observed in the astrocytes of the intact cerebral cortex, cerebellum, and supraoptic nucleus, in contrast to strong tubulin immunoreactivity in neuronal dendrites and somata. Interestingly, intense tubulin immunoreactivity was also observed in the GFAP-positive reactive astrocytes in the immediate vicinity of the artificial lesion of the cerebral cortex. Electron microscopic observation further demonstrated the presence of a lot of microtubules in the pituicytes of intact rats.The present results demonstrate that pituicytes in the adult rat neurohypophysis expresses high levels of tubulin and MAP2d compared with normal brain astrocytes, and suggest that the ability of astrocytic morphological alteration may be at least partly ascribed to this high expression of microtubule proteins.
The amygdaloid complex has a key role in the modulation of behavioral responses in life-threatening situations, including the direction of attentional responses to sensory stimuli. The pathways from the amygdala to the basal forebrain cholinergic system, which projects to the cortex, are proposed to contribute to the modulation. To further explore the topography and postsynaptic targets of these pathways, we investigated the projections from the different divisions of the lateral, basal, accessory basal, and central nuclei of the amygdala to the cholinergic basal forebrain in rat using a sensitive anterograde tracer, Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin. The most substantial projections from the amygdala to the basal forebrain are directed to the ventrolateral and dorsomedial aspects of the substantia innominata and the fundus of the striatum. The heaviest projections originate in the capsular, lateral, and intermediate divisions of the central nucleus as well as in the magnocellular and parvicellular divisions of the basal nucleus. Light microscopic analysis of double-stained preparations revealed that the distribution of amygdaloid efferents and cholinergic neurons overlaps most prominently in the ventrolateral substantia innominata. Despite the fact that the central nucleus efferents and cholinergic elements overlap in the ventrolateral substantia innominata, electron microscopic analysis revealed, first, that the postsynaptic targets of the central nucleus efferents are non-cholinergic, probably GABAergic, neurons. Second, 80% of the synaptic contacts were symmetric. The present data extend previous observations showing that the different amygdaloid nuclei provide projections to the selective basal forebrain areas. Further, the central nucleus efferents modulate cholinergic neurons in the basal forebrain indirectly via the GABAergic interneurons.
It has been recognized that protein kinase C (PKC) pathway is involved in the synaptic plasticity. The present study was then designed to examine the changes in G(q/11alpha) and G(betagamma) subunits and PKC activity on sensitization to the morphine-induced hyperlocomotion. Repeated subcutaneous administration of morphine every 72 h produced sensitization to the morphine-induced hyperlocomotion. In morphine-sensitized mice, the protein level of G(q/11alpha) subunit in the limbic forebrain including the nucleus accumbens, but not in the lower midbrain containing the ventral tegmental area, was markedly increased, whereas the levels of G(betagamma) subunit were not altered in either areas. Under these conditions, the levels of membrane-bound phosphorylated-PKC in the limbic forebrain was clearly up-regulated by intermittent morphine treatment. We also found the lack of changes in the level of the regulator of G protein signaling 4, which is a specific G(q/11alpha)-dependent GTPase activating protein, in the limbic forebrain obtained from morphine-sensitized mice. These results indicate that the up-regulation of membrane-bound PKC following intermittent morphine treatment results from the increase in levels of G(q/11alpha) protein. In order to investigate the direct involvement of PKC in the morphine-induced hyperlocomotion, the locomotion induced by acute morphine treatment in the presence or absence of a PKC inhibitor was measured. A specific PKC inhibitor Ro-32-0432 given intracerebroventricularly caused a dose-dependent inhibition of morphine-induced hyperlocomotion. These findings suggest that the up-regulation of G(q/11alpha)-dependent PKC activity in membranes of the limbic forebrain is implicated in the development of sensitization to morphine-induced hyperlocomotion in mice.
The globus pallidus (external pallidum of primates) is an essential nucleus within basal ganglia circuitry, in part because it receives at least one-half of striatal efferent projections. Neurons of the globus pallidus can be divided into subpopulations based on anatomical, physiological, and chemical features. Globus pallidus neurons project to several structures (the striatum, subthalamic nucleus, entopeduncular nucleus, and substantia nigra pars reticulata), have one of two alternative waveforms (positive/negative versus negative/positive), contain either the calcium binding protein parvalbumin or the neuropeptide precursor preproenkephalin mRNA and show differential immediate early gene responses to dopamine receptor agonists and antagonists. The objective of the present study was to characterize in greater detail the preproenkephalin mRNA-containing pallidal neurons using Sprague-Dawley rats. In situ hybridization for preproenkephalin mRNA was combined with immunocytochemical detection of: (i) the neuron-specific nuclear protein, NeuN, (ii) FluoroGold-labeled pallidostriatal and pallidosubthalamic cells, or (iii) Fos induced by either systemic combined D1-class/D2-class dopamine receptor agonists or a D2-class receptor antagonist. These experiments demonstrated that a substantial population (42%) of globus pallidus neurons contains preproenkephalin mRNA, and that globus pallidus neurons retrogradely labeled after FluoroGold injections into the striatum are more frequently preproenkephalinergic, compared to the population of pallidosubthalamic neurons. Furthermore, systemic administration of a D2 receptor antagonist, eticlopride, induced Fos immunoreactivity predominantly in globus pallidus neurons expressing preproenkephalin mRNA, while combined administration of D1 and D2 receptor agonists induced Fos predominantly in pallidal neurons lacking preproenkephalin mRNA.These results support the conclusion that preproenkephalin mRNA identifies one of the two major subpopulations of pallidal neurons. This preproenkephalin mRNA-expressing pallidal subpopulation preferentially targets the striatum and is more readily activated in its immediate early gene expression by D2 receptor antagonists than by dopamine receptor agonists. This projection provides a pallidal substrate for the dopaminergic regulation of striatal information processing.
The nucleus accumbens comprises of two anatomically distinct subterritories: an inner core and an outer shell region. The distinct pattern of the core and shell input and output targets suggests that these two regions may mediate different behavioral processes. Using N-methyl-D-aspartate excitotoxic lesions in either the core or shell region, we investigated whether we can dissociate functionally these two subterritories. N-Methyl-D-aspartate-lesioned, sham-lesioned and non-operated animals were tested for locomotor activity in an open field and in two behavioral paradigms known to evaluate attentional deficits, namely the pre-pulse inhibition of the acoustic startle reflex and latent inhibition, measured in a two-way active avoidance paradigm. The shell-lesioned animals showed a small but significant hyperactivity in the open field when compared to the core-lesioned and to control animals. In the pre-pulse inhibition paradigm, core-lesioned animals demonstrated reduced pre-pulse inhibition to the two high pre-pulse intensities (80 dB[A], 84 dB[A]). In the active avoidance paradigm, whereas no lesion effects were detected in the non-pre-exposed groups, clear attenuation of latent inhibition was found in the shell-lesioned rats, in comparison to both core-lesioned and control rats, due to improved avoidance performance of the shell-pre-exposed group. From these results we suggest that the two subterritories of the nucleus accumbens are differentially involved in attention-related processes: the core lesion leads to significant disruption of pre-pulse inhibition while the shell lesion leads to heightened activity and significant attenuation of latent inhibition.
Ras signal transduction pathways have been implicated as key regulators in neuroplasticity and synaptic transmission in the brain. These pathways can be modulated by Ras guanyl nucleotide exchange factors, (GEF) which activate Ras proteins by catalysing the exchange of GDP for GTP. Ras guanyl nucleotide-releasing protein (RasGRP), a recently discovered Ras GEF, that links diacylglycerol and probably calcium to Ras signaling pathways, is expressed in brain as well as in T-cells. Here, we have used a highly selective monoclonal antibody against RasGRP to localize this protein within the striatum and related forebrain structures of developing and adult rats. RasGRP immunolabeling was found to be widespread in the mature and developing rat forebrain. Most notably, it presented a prominent patchy distribution throughout the striatum at birth and at all postnatal ages examined. These patches were found to correspond with the striosomal compartment of the striatum, as identified by micro-opioid receptor labeling in the adult. RasGRP-immunoreactivity was also observed in the matrix-like compartment surrounding these patches/striosomes but appeared later in development and was always weaker than in the patches. In both striatal compartments, RasGRP was exclusively expressed by medium-sized spiny neurons and showed no preference for neurons that project either directly or indirectly to the substantia nigra. At the ultrastructural level, immunogold labeling of RasGRP was confined to the cell bodies and dendritic shafts of these output neurons. We conclude that the prominent expression of RasGRP in striosomes may be of significance for diacylglycerol signaling in the striatum, and could be of importance for the processing of limbic-related activity within the basal ganglia.
Although it is now established that neurogenesis of dentate gyrus granule cells increases after experimental seizures, little is currently known about the function of the new granule cells. One question is whether they become integrated into the network around them. Recent experiments that focused on the newly born granule cells in the hilus showed that indeed the new cells appear to become synchronized with host hippocampal neurons [Scharfman et al. (2000) J. Neurosci. 20, 6144-6158]. To address this issue further, we asked whether the new hilar granule cells were active during spontaneous limbic seizures that follow status epilepticus induced by pilocarpine injection. Thus, we perfused rats after spontaneous seizures and stained sections using antibodies to c-fos, a marker of neural activity, and calbindin, a marker of the newly born hilar granule cells [Scharfman et al. (2000) J. Neurosci. 20, 6144-6158]. We asked whether calbindin-immunoreactive hilar neurons were also c-fos-immunoreactive.C-fos was highly expressed in calbindin-immunoreactive hilar neurons. Approximately 23% of hilar cells that expressed c-fos were double-labeled for calbindin. In addition, other types of hilar neurons, i.e. those expressing parvalbumin or neuropeptide Y, also expressed c-fos. Yet other hippocampal neurons, including granule cells and pyramidal cells, had weak expression of c-fos at the latency after the seizure that hilar neuron expression occurred. In controls, there was very little c-fos or calbindin expression in the hilus.These results indicate that calbindin-immunoreactive hilar cells are activated by spontaneous seizures. Based on the evidence that many of these cells are likely to be newly born, the data indicate that new cells can become functionally integrated into limbic circuits involved in recurrent seizure generation. Furthermore, they appear to do so in a manner similar to many neighboring hilar neurons, apparently assimilating into the local environment. Finally, the results show that a number of hilar cell types are activated during chronic recurrent seizures in the pilocarpine model, a surprising result given that many hilar neurons are thought to be damaged soon after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus.
Voltage-dependent calcium channels, the initial components in the calcium signalling cascade, are increasingly being recognised as relevant factors in the pathology of epilepsy. To further characterise their role in temporal lobe epilepsy associated with Ammon's horn sclerosis, we investigated the immunohistochemical distribution of five different voltage-dependent calcium channel alpha(1) subunits (alpha(1A), alpha(1B), alpha(1C), alpha(1D), alpha(1E)) in 14 hippocampal specimens of patients with Ammon's horn sclerosis in comparison with eight autopsy control cases. In epilepsy specimens an increased immunoreactivity was observed for alpha(1A), alpha(1B), alpha(1D) and alpha(1E) in the neuropil of the dentate gyrus molecular layer. Dentate gyrus granule cells and residual CA3 pyramidal neurones showed enhanced immunoreactivity for alpha(1A), while labelling of these neurones was decreased for alpha(1C). Astrocytes in Ammon's horn sclerosis specimens were strongly immunoreactive for the alpha(1C) subunit contrasting with an absent astrocytic alpha(1C) labelling in controls. Our results suggest that the expression of calcium channels in neurones and glial cells is dynamically regulated in temporal lobe epilepsy, supporting the relevance of calcium signalling pathways for this disease.
Changes in the distribution of immunoreactive cytochrome c and protein nitration were studied in the rat cerebral cortex after oxygen and glucose deprivation by bright field, confocal and electron microscopy. In control cerebral cortex, nitrotyrosine immunoreactivity indicating protein nitration was found mostly in the neuronal nuclear region, with only a small amount distributed in the cytosol, whereas cytochrome c immunoreactivity was found at the inner membrane and in the intermembrane space of the mitochondria. During the recovery phase after oxygen and glucose deprivation, cytochrome c immunoreactivity was released from the intermembrane space of swollen mitochondria into the surrounding cytosol. The cytosol now also displayed nitrotyrosine immunoreactivity, which had diminished in the nuclear region. Both immunoreactivities were dispersed throughout the soma and processes of the cortical neurons. These changes were largely prevented by the administration of cyclosporin A, which inhibits both the mitochondrial permeability transition and the neuronal isoform of nitric oxide synthase while blocking the induction of the inducible isoform. Ischemia/reperfusion injury increases the production of nitric oxide, reactive oxygen species and intracellular factors that damage the mitochondria and liberate apoptotic factors. We suggest that translocation of cytochrome c from the mitochondria to the cytosol, which has been shown to precede the mitochondrial permeability transition, could result from peroxynitrite-mediated nitration. This phenomenon is attenuated by cyclosporin A administration, suggesting a neuroprotective role for this agent.
During a critical period in its postnatal development the mammalian visual cortex displays susceptibility to experience-dependent alterations of neuronal response properties. Plasticity represents an integrated set of developmental processes controlled by a transcriptional hierarchy that coordinates the action of many genes. To illuminate the expression of these critical genes, we examined gene expression patterns of 18371 non-redundant cDNAs in the visual cortex of cats at birth, at eye opening, at the peak of the critical period of eye dominance plasticity and in the adult cat using filter-based cDNA arrays and software-based hierarchical cluster analysis. We identified a small set of genes that were selectively expressed during the peak of the critical period for plasticity. We further examined the patterns of expression of these genes by analyzing the gene expression pattern of dark-reared chronologically older animals that are known to retain this ocular dominance plasticity beyond the chronologically defined critical period. This additional cluster assessment allowed us to separate age-related changes in the patterns of gene expression from plasticity-related changes, thus identifying a subset of genes that we define as plasticity candidate genes. Those plasticity candidate genes that have previously characterized functions include participants in second messenger systems, in cell adhesion, in transmitter recycling and cytokines, among others. Comparison of cDNA array quantitation with reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction showed almost identical expression profiles for three genes that we examined. The expression pattern of one identified gene, opioid binding cell adhesion molecule, from the cDNA array analysis, is also in agreement with immunocytochemical results. We conclude that the approach of high-density cDNA array hybridization can be used as a useful tool for examining a complex phenomenon of developmental plasticity since it is amenable to multiple developmental stage gene expression comparisons.
A family of seven facilitative glucose transporters (Glut1-5, 7 and 8) mediates the cellular uptake of glucose. In the brain, Glut2, Glut5 and Glut8 are found at relatively low levels whereas Glut1, Glut3 and Glut4 were reported in abundance in several brain regions. Using immunofluorescence, this study investigated, compared and quantified the localization of the brain major glucose transporters, Glut1, Glut3 and Glut4, in the different cerebral areas of CD1 mice. Most of the staining of Glut1, Glut3 and Glut4 in the mouse brain coincides with observations made in rats. The results confirm the cortical neuropil distribution of Glut3, the prominence of this transporter in the mossy fiber field of the hippocampus and the Glut3 and Glut4 immunostaining of the hippocampal pyramidal cell layer. The present study also reports novel localizations of the transporters such as the presence of Glut3 in neuronal perikarya, Glut4-labeled neurons in the CA3 of the hippocampus and the subiculum. In the cerebellum, Glut3 shows subcellular localization to the base of the Purkinje cell bodies near the axon hillock. Furthermore, an important population of Golgi cells was found to be strongly immunostained for Glut4 in the granular cell layer of the cerebellum. The quantification results suggest that the relative abundance of Glut1 in the frontal and motor cortices coincides well with the high-energy demands of these brain regions. However, the Glut4-selective abundance in cerebral motor areas supports its suggested role in providing the energy needed for the control of the motor activity. The reported neuropil distribution of Glut3 seems to uphold its suggested role in synaptic energy provision and neurotransmitter synthesis. We conclude that the cellular and regional distributions of the glucose transporters in the rodent brain seem to be relevant to their corresponding functions.
We investigated the roles of bare morphogenetic protein (BMP), sonic hedgehog (SHH) and fibroblast growth factor (FGF)-expressing signaling centers in regulating the patterned outgrowth of the telencephalic and optic vesicles. Implantation of BMP4 beads in the anterior neuropore of stage 10 chicken embryos repressed FGF8 and SHH expression. Similarly, loss of SHH expression in Shh mutant mice leads to increased BMP signaling and loss of Fgf8 expression in the prosencephalon. Increased BMP signaling and loss of FGF and SHH expression was correlated with decreased proliferation, increased cell death, and hypoplasia of the telencephalic and optic vesicles. However, decreased BMP signaling, through ectopic expression of Noggin, a BMP-binding protein, also caused decreased proliferation and hypoplasia of the telencephalic and optic vesicles, but with maintenance of Fgf8 and Shh expression, and no detectable increase in cell death. These results suggest that optimal growth requires a balance of BMP, FGF8 and SHH signaling. We suggest that the juxtaposition of Fgf8, Bmp4 and Shh expression domains generate patterning centers that coordinate the growth of the telencephalic and optic vesicles, similar to how Fgf8, Bmp4 and Shh regulate growth of the limb bud. Furthermore, these patterning centers regulate regional specification within the forebrain and eye, as exemplified by the regulation of Emx2 expression by different levels of BMP signaling. In summary, we present evidence that there is cross-regulation between BMP-, FGF- and SHH-expressing signaling centers in the prosencephalon which regulate morphogenesis of, and regional specification within, the telencephalic and optic vesicles.
Regulation of vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) release by nitric oxide (NO) was investigated in the hamster jejunum. Electrical field stimulation and applied NO (3-100 microM) evoked biphasic hyperpolarizations consisting of an initial transient hyperpolarizing component followed by a second more slowly developing component (late component). The NO synthase inhibitor N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (200 microM) abolished the biphasic inhibitory junction potential evoked by electrical field stimulation. The NO scavenger oxyhemoglobin (50 microM) and the guanylate cyclase inhibitor 1H-[1,2,4]oxadiazolo-[4,3-a]quinoxalin-1-one (ODQ; 10 microM) abolished both components of the inhibitory junction potentials and the NO-induced hyperpolarizations. VIP(6-28) (1 microM), which abolished VIP (3 microM)-induced hyperpolarizations, also inhibited the late components of the inhibitory junction potentials and the NO-induced hyperpolarizations. ODQ inhibited VIP release and cAMP production by electrical field stimulation and NO application. N(6)-2,0-Dibutyryladenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (0.1-3 mM) caused a membrane hyperpolarization. These results suggest that NO may stimulate VIP release from enteric nerves in the hamster jejunum. In addition, we propose that NO and NO-stimulated VIP contribute to the early and late components of the inhibitory junction potentials, respectively, in the circular smooth muscle cells of the hamster jejunum.
White matter strips extracted from adult guinea-pig spinal cords were maintained in vitro and studied physiologically using a double sucrose gap technique and anatomically using a horseradish peroxidase assay. The amplitude of compound action potentials was monitored continuously before, during, and after elongation. Three types of conduction blocks resulting from stretch injury were identified: an immediate, spontaneously reversible component, which may result from a transient increase in membrane permeability and consequent disturbance of ionic distribution; a second component that was irreversible within 30-60 min of recording, perhaps resulting from profound axolemmal disruption; and a third component, which may be due to perturbation of the myelin sheath, that was reversible with application of 100 microM of the potassium channel blocker, 4-aminopyridine. The intensity of the conduction deficits correlated with the extent of initial stretch over a full range of severity. Stimulus-response data indicate that mechanical damage to axons in stretch was evenly distributed across the caliber spectrum. Morphological examinations revealed that a small portion of axons exhibited membrane damage at 2 min following stretch and appeared to be largely sealed at 30 min after injury. Further, in the entire length of the cord strip subjected to stretch, axons closer to the surface were found to be more likely to suffer membrane damage, which distinguished stretch injury from compression injury. In summary, we have developed an in vitro model of axonal stretch that provides the ability to monitor changes in the properties of central myelinated axons following stretch injury in the absence of pathological variables related to vascular damage. This initial investigation found no evidence of secondary deterioration of axons in the first 30 min after stretch in vitro, although there was evidence of both transient and lasting physiological and anatomical damage to axons and their myelin sheaths.
Several lines of evidence show that endogenous and exogenous cannabinoids modulate pain transmission at the spinal level through specific cannabinoid-1 (CB1) receptors. Since anatomical data concerning spinal CB1 receptors are rather contradictory, we studied the cellular and subcellular localizations of the CB1 receptors by immunocytochemistry. Results show a dual pre- and postsynaptic localization of CB1 receptors. Presynaptic receptors are evidenced by the labeling of (1) heterogeneous dorsal root ganglion neurons and (2) axons of Lissauer's tract. Postsynaptic receptors are shown by the labeling of numerous interneurons in the outer part of lamina II. Double immunolabelings show that lamina II outer CB1 neurons, probably islet cells, may also contain GABA or nitric oxide synthase. Numerous CB1-containing neurons in lamina X are also immunostained with anti-nitric oxide synthase (NOS) antibody. Under the electron microscope, CB1 immunoreactivity is exclusively localized postsynaptically in both somatic and dendritic compartments. The absence of labeling on primary afferent axon terminals is discussed and compared to the absence of labeling on terminals or vesicle-containing dendrites of islet cells, where a presynaptic localization was expected according to data of the literature.
Expression of the cannabinoid 1 (CB1) receptor and its regulation were studied in the different nociceptive and non-nociceptive sub-populations of cultured primary sensory neurones of adult rats. Bandairaea simplicifolia isolectin B4 (IB4) binding and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) immunostaining were used to distinguish between the glial cell-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF)- and nerve growth factor (NGF)-responsive nociceptive and the non-nociceptive primary sensory neurones while a specific CB1 receptor antibody was used to study the expression of the CB1 receptor protein. About half of the total number of primary sensory neurones (47+/-3.2%) cultured for 1 day in the presence of both neurotrophic factors (50 ng/ml each) showed CB1 receptor-like immunostaining, whereas 21.8+/-3.3% and 32.7+/-5.6% of the neurones showed CGRP-like immunopositivity and IB4 binding, respectively. A proportion of the CB1 receptor-like immunopositive neurones was immunostained for CGRP (31.7+/-5%) and IB4 (48.2%+/-7.5), with a minimal (1%) co-expression of CGRP and IB4 binding. About a fifth of the CB1 receptor-like immunopositive neurones did not show either CGRP-like immunostaining or IB4 binding. To find out whether CB1 receptor expression in nociceptive primary sensory neurones is regulated by GDNF or NGF, cultures were grown in the presence or absence of the neurotrophic factors for 7 days. Vanilloid receptor 1 (VR1) immunostaining was used as a control marker to monitor the effect of the neurotrophins. In cultures maintained in the presence of both factors (50 ng/ml each) 51+/-2.6% and 42.4+/-1.2% of the cells showed CB1 receptor-like and VR1-like immunostaining, respectively. In cultures grown for 7 days in the absence of either of the neurotrophic factors the relative number of VR1-like immunopositive cells decreased to 13.4+/-2.7%, whereas the relative number of CB1 receptor-like immunopositive neurones was unchanged (50.6+/-1.1%). Our data suggest that the CB1 receptor is expressed in all of the three major sub-populations of primary sensory neurones and that the CB1 receptor expression is not regulated by either NGF or GDNF.
NESP55 (neuroendocrine secretory protein of M(r) 55000) is a novel member of the chromogranin family. In the present study, we have investigated the distribution, axonal transport and proteolytic processing of NESP55 in the peripheral nervous system. The amount of NESP55 immunoreactivity in adrenal gland was more than 240 times higher than that in the vas deferens. Double or triple immunostaining demonstrated that NESP55 immunoreactivity was highly co-localized with tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity in bundles of thin axons and postganglionic sympathetic neurons; that NESP55 immunoreactivity also co-existed with vesicular acetylcholine transporter immunoreactivity in large-sized axons in sciatic nerves, and that NESP55 immunoreactivity overlapped with calcitonin gene-related peptide immunoreactivity in some large-sized axons, but NESP55 immunoreactivity was not detected in sensory neurons. Strong NESP55 immunoreactivity was found in cell bodies and axons, but it was not detectable in any terminal region by immunohistochemistry. In crush-operated sciatic nerves, NESP55 immunoreactivity could be found as early as 1 h after operation, and accumulated amounts increased substantially with time. However, NESP55 immunoreactivity was only observed in axons proximal to the crush, but none or very little distal to the crush, which was consistent with the data from radioimmunoassay. Finally, extracts of the normal and crushed sciatic nerve and vas deferens were subjected to high-performance liquid chromatography followed by radioimmunoassay. The results indicate that NESP55 is processed slowly to small peptides (GAIPIRRH) during axonal transport. NESP55 immunoreactivity was only detected in axons proximal to the crush. The data in the present study indicate that NESP55 immunoreactivity is widely distributed in adrenergic, cholinergic, and peptidergic neurons, but not in sensory neurons, and that this peptide is anterogradely, but not retrogradely, transported with fast axonal transport and slowly processed to smaller peptides during axonal transport in the peripheral nervous system.
Transient proton-activated currents induced by rapid shifts of the extracellular pH from 7.4 to &lt; or =6.8 were recorded in different neurons freshly isolated from rat brain (hypoglossal motoneurons, cerebellar Purkinje cells, striatal giant cholinergic interneurons, hippocampal interneurons, CA1 pyramidal neurons and cortical pyramidal neurons) using whole-cell patch clamp technique. Responses of hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons were weak (100-300 pA) in contrast to other types of neurons (1-3 nA). Sensitivity of neurons to rapid acidification varied from pH(50) 6.4 in hypoglossal motoneurons to 4.9 in hippocampal interneurons. Proton-activated currents were blocked by amiloride (IC(50) varied from 3.6 to 9.5 microM). Reversal potential of the currents was close to E(Na), indicating that the currents are carried by sodium ions. The data obtained suggest that the proton-activated currents in the neurons studied are mediated by acid-sensitive ion channels. Strong acidification (pH&lt;4) induced biphasic responses in all neuron types: the transient current was followed by a pronounced sustained one. Sustained current was not blocked by amiloride and exhibited low selectivity for sodium and cesium ions. Slow acidification from pH 7.4 to 6.5 did not induce detectable whole-cell currents. At pH 6.5, most of the channels are desensitized and responses to fast pH shifts from this initial level are decreased at least 10 times. This suggests that slow acidification which is well known to accompany some pathological states should rather desensitize than activate acid-sensitive ion channels and depress their function. Our results provide evidence for a widespread and neuron-specific distribution of acid-sensitive ion channels in the brain. The large amplitudes and transient character of currents mediated by these channels suggest that they could contribute to fast neuronal signaling processes.
The goal of this study was to determine the origin and transmission pathway of respiratory drive to hypoglossal motoneurons. First we recorded intracellularly from 28 antidromically activated inspiratory hypoglossal motoneurons (resting membrane potential, -50+/-3 mV), and found that injection of chloride ions had no discernible effect on the shape of their membrane potential trajectories. We concluded that the membrane potential trajectories of these hypoglossal motoneurons were determined primarily by inspiratory excitation. To determine the origin of this excitation we cross-correlated the extracellular discharge of medullary inspiratory neurons, including those in the hypoglossal motor nucleus, with the hypoglossal nerve discharge. We found 27 inspiratory neurons within the hypoglossal motor nucleus that were not antidromically activated from the ipsilateral hypoglossal nerve; their cross-correlograms featured either central peaks (1.7+/-0.2 ms) alone (n=14; 39%), or central peaks (1.3+/-0.2 ms) followed by troughs (1.3+/-0.1 ms) at short latencies (1.1+/-0.4 ms) (n=13; 36%), and suggest that these neurons are hypoglossal interneurons. We recorded from 238 inspiratory neurons throughout the rest of the medulla; the cross-correlograms of 19 neurons (8%), located mostly in the lateral tegmental field, displayed narrow half-amplitude peaks (1.0+/-0.1 ms) at short latencies (0.9+/-0.1 ms), which we interpreted as evidence for monosynaptic excitation of hypoglossal motoneurons.We conclude that the respiratory control of hypoglossal motoneurons originates from inspiratory premotor neurons scattered throughout the lateral tegmental field and interneurons within the hypoglossal motor nucleus.
Intracranial leptin alters food consumption and body weight. To systematically characterize the effects of extended continuous spinal intrathecal delivery on such regulation, female rats received continuous lumbar spinal infusion (14 days) through catheters connected to osmotic minipumps of a vehicle or one of several doses of recombinant murine leptin (0.03-10 microg/day). The following observations were made. (1) Leptin resulted in a dose-dependent suppression in body weight and food consumption at doses above 0.3 microg/day. (2) Food consumption was initially reduced. Weight fell for 7 days and then plateaued at a level proportional to dose. (3) The ratio of food consumed to body weight was constant for control animals across the study. Leptin-infused rats slowed the initial fall in weight by increasing food consumption, such that the food to body weight ratio returned to that of control values. Rats were thus regulating food consumption to sustain body weight as defined by leptin dose. (4) On day 14, cisternal cerebrospinal fluid was obtained and leptin measured. Concentrations covaried in a log linear fashion with infusion dose. Body weight and food consumption covaried similarly with cisternal leptin concentrations across dose groups. Our data suggest that steady state infusions of leptin induce a degree of appetite suppression that leads to a steady state level of body weight loss and not simply to a simple block of consumatory behavior. The unexpected potency of the observed effects of intrathecal leptin relative to doses that are required after i.c.v. delivery suggests that at least a portion of the effects of intrathecal leptin may reflect a medullary action. The observed correlation of cisternal leptin levels with the behavioral effects is also consistent with a reliable distribution of the infused leptin to target supraspinal sites.
Ligands of the delta-opioid receptor tonically influence sympathetic outflow. Some of the actions of delta-opioid receptor agonists may be mediated through C1 adrenergic neurons in the rostral ventrolateral medulla. The goal of this study was to determine whether C1 adrenergic neurons or their afferents contain delta-opioid receptors. Single sections through the rostral ventrolateral medulla were labeled for delta-opioid receptor using the immunoperoxidase method and the epinephrine synthesizing enzyme phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase (PNMT) using the immunogold method, and examined at the light and electron microscopic level. Few ( approximately 5% of 903) profiles dually labeled for PNMT and delta-opioid receptor were detected; most of these were dendrites with diameters &lt; 1.5 microm. delta-Opioid receptor immunoreactivity was affiliated with multivesicular bodies in dually labeled perikarya, whereas delta-opioid receptor immunoperoxidase labeling appeared as isolated clusters within both singly and dually labeled dendrites. The majority ( approximately 83% of 338) of delta-opioid receptor-immunoreactive profiles were axons and axon terminals. delta-Opioid receptor-immunoreactive terminals averaged 0.75 microm in diameter, contained numerous large dense-core vesicles and usually formed appositions or asymmetric (excitatory-type) synapses with their targets. The majority (&gt;50% of 250) of delta-opioid receptor-immunoreactive axons and axon terminals contacted PNMT-immunoreactive profiles. Most of the contacts formed by delta-opioid receptor-immunoreactive profiles ( approximately 75% of 132) were on single-labeled PNMT-immunoreactive dendrites with diameters &lt;1.5 microm. The prominent localization of delta-opioid receptors to dense-core vesicle-rich presynaptic profiles suggests that delta-opioid receptor activation by endogenous or exogenous agonists may modulate neuropeptide release. Furthermore, the presence of delta-opioid receptors on axon terminals that form excitatory-type synapses with PNMT-immunoreactive dendrites suggests that delta-opioid receptor ligands may modulate afferent activity to C1 adrenergic neurons. The observation that some PNMT-immunoreactive neurons contain delta-opioid receptor immunoreactivity associated with multivesicular bodies and other intracellular organelles suggests that some C1 adrenergic neurons may present, endocytose and/or recycle delta-opioid receptors.
Protein kinase C (PKC) is a key molecule for the expression of long-term depression at the parallel fiber-Purkinje cell synapse in the cerebellum, a well known model for synaptic plasticity. We have recently shown that activity of PKC also profoundly affects the dendritic morphology of Purkinje cells in rat cerebellar slice cultures suggesting that synaptic efficacy and dendritic development may be controlled by similar intracellular signalling pathways. Here we have analyzed the role of the gamma-isoform of protein kinase C (PKCgamma), which is strongly and specifically expressed in Purkinje cells, during dendritic development. After pharmacological treatment with PKC modulators, phosphorylation of PKCgamma at serine 660 was altered in cerebellar slices suggesting that a change of PKCgamma activity by these treatments was taking place within the Purkinje cells. In PKCgamma-deficient mice, Purkinje cell dendritic trees were enlarged and had an increased number of branching points compared to wild-type mice indicating a role for the PKCgamma isoform as a negative regulator of dendritic growth and branching. Furthermore, the branching-stimulating effects of the PKC inhibitors 2-[1-(3-dimethylaminopropyl)indol-3-yl]-3-(indol-3-yl)maleimide and G6976 found in wild-type cultures were abolished in the absence of PKCgamma. In contrast, the strong inhibitory effect on dendritic growth by the PKC activator phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate (PMA) did not require the presence of the PKCgamma isoform since it was still present in the cultures of PKCgamma-deficient mice. Our results clearly demonstrate an involvement of PKCgamma in Purkinje cell dendritic differentiation in cerebellar slice cultures.
During perinatal development in rodents, ipsilateral retinofugal projection spreading over the superior colliculus is eventually restricted to the rostromedial region. Since this restriction is accompanied by the apoptotic death of more than half of the retinal ganglion cells (RGCs), cell death is believed to play a major role in the restriction of transient ipsilateral projection from the retina to the superior colliculus. To determine the role of RGC death in the establishment of ipsilateral retinofugal projection, we examined the projection pattern in the superior colliculus and the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus of transgenic mice overexpressing the human bcl-2 gene, which protects against cell death in the CNS. Retrograde labeling of RGCs showed that the number of ipsilaterally projecting RGCs in adult transgenic mice was approximately twice that in adult wild-type mice, indicating that the naturally occurring death of RGCs was prevented in these mutant mice. However, anterograde labeling of ipsilateral retinofugal pathways revealed that the innervation of retinogeniculate and retinocollicular projections was as restricted in transgenic mice as in wild-type mice. From these results we suggest that restriction of ipsilateral retinofugal projection during development is due to retraction or elimination of excessive terminals rather than to naturally occurring RGC death.
Optic nerve transection results in apoptotic cell death of most adult rat retinal ganglion cells that begins at 4 days and leaves few surviving neurons at 14 days post-injury [Berkelaar et al. (1994) J. Neurosci. 14, 4368-4374]. The small heat shock protein Hsp27 has recently been shown to play a role in sensory neuron survival following peripheral nerve axotomy [Lewis et al. (1999) J. Neurosci. 19, 8945-8953]. To investigate the role of Hsp27 in injured CNS sensory neurons, we have studied the induction and cell-specific expression of Hsp27 in rat retinal ganglion cells 1-28 days after optic nerve transection. Immunohistochemical results indicate that Hsp27 is not present at detectable levels in the ganglion cell layer of control (uninjured) or sham-operated control rats. In contrast, Hsp27 is detected in retinal ganglion cells from 4 to 28 days following axotomy. Furthermore, the percentage of surviving retinal ganglion cells that are Hsp27-positive increased over the same time period. Hsp27 is also detected in glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive astrocytes in the optic layer of the superior colliculus from 4 to 28 days after optic nerve transection. These experiments demonstrate that transection of the optic nerve results in the expression of Hsp27 in three distinct regions of the rat visual system: sensory retinal ganglion cells in the eye, glial cells of the optic tract, and astrocytes in the optic layer of the superior colliculus. Hsp27 may be associated with enhanced survival of a subset of retinal ganglion cells, providing evidence of a protective role for Hsp27 in CNS neuronal injury.
The p75 low-affinity neurotrophin receptor (p75(LNTR)) appears to have various functions that include enhancing nerve growth factor (NGF)-mediated survival by increasing TrkA (high-affinity NGF receptor) efficiency, and mediating apoptosis by acting as a ligand-regulated pro-apoptotic receptor. Here, we investigated the role of p75(LNTR) for adult cholinergic basal forebrain neurons by comparing neuronal responses to injury in control and p75(LNTR)-deficient mice. In both types of mice, approximately 70% of the cholinergic neurons in the ipsilateral medial septum had lost their markers choline acetyltransferase and tyrosine kinase A by 28 days following unilateral transection of the dorsal septohippocampal pathway (fimbria fornix). A 7-day delayed infusion of NGF that started 28 days after the injury resulted in reversal of choline acetyltransferase expression and cell atrophy in control, but not in p75(LNTR)-deficient, mice. This lack of response to delayed NGF treatment in p75(LNTR)-deficient mice was most likely not due to cell death, as all of the septohippocampal neurons, labeled with Fluorogold before the lesion, were present at 28 days post-lesion, similar to control mice. p75(LNTR)-deficient cholinergic neurons can respond to NGF as they were protected by NGF infusions that started immediately after the injury. These observations, the fact that lesioned p75(LNTR)-deficient neurons atrophy faster, and that non-lesioned neurons hypertrophy in response to NGF in control but not in p75(LNTR)-deficient mice, suggest that p75(LNTR) is needed for tyrosine kinase A and NGF signaling efficiency.In conclusion, during adulthood p75(LNTR) appears to play a beneficial role in the response of cholinergic neurons to injury, consistent with the proposed role of p75(LNTR) in the enhancement of TrkA signaling and the transport of neurotrophins by these neurons.
Acetylcholinesterase is one of the most prominent constituents of central cholinergic pathways. It terminates the synaptic action of acetylcholine through hydrolysis and yields the choline moiety that is necessary for transmitter recycling. Despite these pivotal relationships, mice nullizygous for acetylcholinesterase established all principal anatomical components of central cholinergic pathways. No compensatory increase in the distribution of butyrylcholinesterase was detected. However, both the wild-type and nullizygous mice showed that butyrylcholinesterase enzyme activity extended to all parts of the brain receiving cholinergic innervation and that it could hydrolyze the acetylcholine surrogate acetylthiocholine. As opposed to acetylcholinesterase which was mostly of neuronal origin, butyrylcholinesterase appeared to be mostly of glial origin. These experiments lead to the unexpected conclusion that acetylcholinesterase is not necessary for the establishment of cholinergic pathways. They also show that butyrylcholinesterase can potentially substitute for acetylcholinesterase and that this enzyme is likely to play a constitutive (rather than just back-up) role in the hydrolysis of acetylcholine in the normal brain. The inhibition of butyrylcholinesterase may therefore provide a desirable feature of cholinergic therapies, including those aimed at treating Alzheimer's disease.
Arc (also termed activity-regulated cytoskeleton-associated protein or Arg3.1), is an effector immediate early gene whose upregulation has been demonstrated during events of synaptic plasticity. In the present study, the possibility that Arc would be specifically upregulated in rats during the acquisition of a quickly learned behavioral task but not in overtrained animals was investigated. Three groups of rats, pseudotrained, newly trained and overtrained, were examined with respect to Arc expression following training on a simple operant lever-pressing task. Newly trained animals were killed 30 min following the session in which they demonstrated acquisition of the task, and overtrained animals were trained on the same task for 13-14 days and then killed. Relative to base level measures taken 6 h following the session, all three groups demonstrated significant levels of induction of Arc mRNA; however, newly trained animals exhibited heightened induction of Arc mRNA relative to both pseudotrained and overtrained animals. The increased levels of Arc mRNA in newly trained animals were located in the CA1 and CA3 fields of hippocampus, the subiculum, and the anterior cingulate, piriform, infra/prelimbic, perirhinal and entorhinal cortical areas. Additionally, Arc mRNA was expressed differentially across the above anatomic structures in a relative pattern that was the same in all three groups. Finally, levels of Arc mRNA in specific brain regions of newly trained animals correlated negatively with the rate of task acquisition, such that slow learners exhibited higher levels of Arc mRNA than fast learners. From these results we suggest that Arc is upregulated in an experience-dependent manner, with higher levels of induction occurring during the initial stage of learning. Furthermore, the finding of increased Arc levels in slow versus fast learners indicates that Arc expression may be associated with the length of time required to: (1) form new associations or (2) remodel existing connections. These results confirm other reports that Arc is a critical substrate for the synaptic plasticity underlying the acquisition of new behaviors.
Although mild traumatic brain injury is associated with behavioral dysfunction and histopathological alterations, few studies have assessed the temporal pattern of regional apoptosis following mild brain injury. Anesthetized rats were subjected to mild lateral fluid-percussion brain injury (1.1-1.3 atm), and brains were evaluated for the presence of in situ DNA fragmentation (terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP-biotin nick end-labeling, TUNEL) and morphologic characteristics of apoptotic cell death (nuclear and cytoplasmic condensation, presence of apoptotic bodies). Significant numbers of apoptotic TUNEL(+) cells were observed in the injured parietal cortex and underlying white matter up to 72 h post-injury (P&lt;0.05 compared to sham-injured-injured), with maximal numbers present at 24 h. Apoptosis was confirmed by the presence of 180-200 bp nuclear DNA fragments in tissue homogenates. The appearance of apoptotic TUNEL(+) cells in the injured cortex was preceded by a marked decrease in immunoreactivity for the anti-cell death protein, Bcl-2, as early as 2 h post-injury. This decrease in cellular Bcl-2 staining was not accompanied by a concomitant loss of staining for the pro-cell death Bax protein, suggesting that post-traumatic neuronal death in the cortex may be dependent on altered cellular ratios of Bcl-2:Bax. In the hippocampus, no significant increase in apoptotic TUNEL(+) cells was observed compared to sham-injured-injured animals. However, selective neuronal loss was evident in the CA3 region at 24 h post-injury, that was preceded by an overt loss of neuronal Bcl-2 immunoreactivity at 6 h. No changes in either cellular Bcl-2 or Bax expression were observed in the thalamus or white matter at any time post-injury. Taken together from these data, we suggest that apoptosis contributes to cell death in both gray and white matter, and that decreases in cellular Bcl-2 may, in part, be associated with both apoptotic and non-apoptotic cell death following mild brain trauma.
The effects of exogenous vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) on angiogenesis, blood-brain barrier permeability and astroglial proliferation in the adult rat CNS in situ were investigated. Recombinant human VEGF(165) (25 or 50 ng/ml) was delivered for up to 1 week using either intracerebral osmotic minipumps or less traumatic subdural gelatin sponge placement. By 3 days, VEGF delivery caused significantly increased cerebral angiogenesis (25 ng/ml was most effective) in both experimental models when compared to saline controls; VEGF infusion resulted in a 100% increase in an index of vascular proliferation, and gelatin sponge delivery produced a 65% increase. The blood-brain barrier hallmark endothelial glucose transporter-1 was not present in nascent vascular sprouts. Infusion of VEGF produced extensive protein leakage that persisted after saline-induced permeability was mostly resolved, while gelatin sponge administration caused milder barrier dysfunction. Administration of the angiogenic factor had unexpected proliferative effects on astroglia in both models, resulting in an 80-85% increase in mitotically active astroglia when compared to controls. Immunohistochemical results and semi-quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction indicated that the VEGF receptors flk-1 and flt-1 were up-regulated in response to the infusion trauma; flt-1 was localized to reactive astroglia, while flk-1 was expressed in vascular endothelium but predominantly in neuronal somata and processes adjacent to the delivery site. mRNA for the VEGF(121), VEGF(165) and VEGF(188) isoforms was also increased after delivery of the recombinant protein. These data show that VEGF application has substantial proliferative effects on CNS endothelium and astroglia and causes up-regulation of its own message. Flt-1 and flk-1 receptor mRNAs and proteins are up-regulated in both vascular and non-vascular cell types following infusion trauma. From these results we suggest that administered VEGF has heretofore unanticipated pleiotrophic effects in the adult CNS.
Effects of the lysophospholipids sphingosine-1-phosphate and lysophosphatidic acid were studied in cultured murine microglia using the patch-clamp and video imaging techniques. Both lysophospholipids induced transient membrane hyperpolarization and K(+) current activation. The lysophospholipid-induced K(+) current was blocked by charybdotoxin or iberiotoxin, but was unaffected by apamin. In recordings with 1 microM intracellular free Ca(2+), Ca(2+)-dependent K(+) currents of microglia showed a similar pharmacological profile to lysophospholipid-induced currents. The Ca(2+)-dependent K(+) channels activated in microglia by lysophospholipids are most likely encoded by the IKCa1 channel gene. The presence of IKCa1 mRNA in microglia was demonstrated by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction studies. Ca(2+) imaging experiments revealed increases in the intracellular free Ca(2+) concentration of microglia to a mean value of about 400 nM after application of 1 microM sphingosine-1-phosphate or 1 microM lysophosphatidic acid. We suggest that the transient membrane hyperpolarization seen in microglia following exposure to sphingosine-1-phosphate or lysophosphatidic acid is caused by activation of IKCa1 Ca(2+)-dependent K(+) channels. Increases in the concentration of intracellular free Ca(2+) evoked by the lysophospholipids are sufficient to activate microglial Ca(2+)-dependent K(+) channels.
alpha(2)-Adrenergic receptors play an essential role in regulating neurotransmitter release from sympathetic nerves and from adrenergic neurons in the CNS. However, the role of each of the three highly homologous alpha(2)-adrenergic receptor subtypes (alpha(2A), alpha(2B), alpha(2C)) in this process has not been determined unequivocally. To address this question, the regulation of norepinephrine and dopamine release was studied in mice carrying deletions in the genes encoding the three alpha(2)-adrenergic receptor subtypes. Autoradiography and radioligand binding studies showed that alpha(2)-receptor density in alpha(2A)-deficient brains was decreased to 9 +/- 1% of the respective wild-type value, whereas alpha(2)-receptor levels were reduced to 83 +/- 4% in alpha(2C)-deficient mice. These results indicate that approximately 90% of mouse brain alpha(2)-receptors belong to the alpha(2A) subtype and 10% are alpha(2C)-receptors. In isolated brain cortex slices from wild-type mice a non-subtype-selective alpha(2)-receptor agonist inhibited release of [(3)H]norepinephrine by maximally 96%. Similarly, release of [(3)H]dopamine from isolated basal ganglion slices was inhibited by 76% by an alpha(2)-receptor agonist. In alpha(2A)-receptor-deficient mice, the inhibitory effect of the alpha(2)-receptor agonist on norepinephrine and dopamine release was significantly reduced but not abolished. Only in tissues from mice lacking both alpha(2A)- and alpha(2C)-receptors was no alpha(2)-receptor agonist effect on transmitter release observed. The time course of onset of presynaptic inhibition of norepinephrine release was much faster for the alpha(2A)-receptor than for the alpha(2C)-subtype. After prolonged stimulation with norepinephrine, presynaptic alpha(2C)-adrenergic receptors were desensitized. From these data we suggest that two functionally distinct alpha(2)-adrenergic receptor subtypes, alpha(2A) and alpha(2C), operate as presynaptic inhibitory receptors regulating neurotransmitter release in the mouse CNS.
The effect of the i.c.v. administration of antisense oligodeoxynucleotides directed against the alpha subunit of different Gi-proteins (anti-Gi alpha(1), anti-Gi alpha(2), anti-Gi alpha(3)) on the antinociception induced by the H(1)-antihistamines was evaluated in the mouse hot-plate test. The administration of diphenhydramine (20 mg kg(-1) s.c.), pyrilamine (15 mg kg(-1) s.c.) and promethazine (6 mg kg(-1) s.c.) produced an increase of the pain threshold which peaked 15 min after injection. Pretreatment with anti-Gi alpha(1) (12.5 microg per mouse i.c.v.), anti-Gi alpha(2) (25 microg per mouse i.c.v.) and anti-Gi alpha(3) (25 microg per mouse i.c.v.), administered 24 and 18 h before test, prevented the antihistamine-induced antinociception. At the highest effective doses, none of the compounds used impaired motor coordination, as revealed by the rota rod test, nor modified spontaneous motility and inspection activity, as revealed by the hole board test. These results suggest an important role played by the Gi-protein pathway in the transduction mechanism involved in the enhancement of the pain threshold produced by H(1)-antihistamines.
Axons containing serotonin descend from brainstem to spinal cord and are thought to contribute to stimulation-produced and opioid analgesia, partly by a direct inhibitory action of serotonin on projection neurones. The density of serotoninergic innervation is highest in lamina I, which contains many nociceptive projection neurones. Two sets of anatomical criteria have been used to classify lamina I projection neurones: somatodendritic morphology and presence or absence of the neurokinin 1 receptor. To test whether the strength of serotoninergic innervation of lamina I projection neurones was related to morphology or neurokinin 1 receptor expression, we used confocal microscopy to determine the density of serotoninergic contacts on 60 cells retrogradely labelled from the caudal ventrolateral medulla. The contact density on neurones with the neurokinin 1 receptor was variable, with some cells receiving heavy input and others having few contacts. However, on average they received significantly more contacts (5.64 per 1000 microm(2) plasma membrane +/- 0.47, S.E.M.) than neurones which lacked the receptor (2.49 +/- .36). Among the neurokinin 1 neurones, serotoninergic innervation density was not related to morphology. Since the majority of serotoninergic boutons in lamina I of rat spinal cord do not appear to form synapses, we carried out electron microscopy on three heavily innervated neurokinin 1 receptor-immunoreactive projection neurones. Symmetrical synapses were found at 89% of serotoninergic contacts. These results indicate that serotoninergic innervation of lamina I projection neurones in the rat spinal cord is related to expression of neurokinin 1 receptors, but not to morphology, and that (at least on heavily innervated neurones) most serotonin-containing boutons which are in contact form synapses.
Previous findings have shown that the capsaicin sensitivity of sensory fibres is due to the expression of a specific membrane protein, the vanilloid receptor type 1 (VR1). In the present work we studied the distribution, morphology and the neurochemical content of nerve fibres expressing this receptor in the rat urinary tract. Immunolabelling was performed against the VR1 and the positive fibres were examined by light and electron microscopy. Colocalisation of VR1 and substance P or calcitonin gene-related peptide immunoreactivities, and isolectin B4 binding, was evaluated under the confocal microscope. In addition, the effect of intravesical administration of resiniferatoxin, an ultra-potent vanilloid receptor agonist, in the receptor expression in the bladder was also studied. Numerous VR1-immunoreactive fibres were found in the mucosa and muscular layer of the entire urinary tract except the kidney. In the bladder, most fibres were also substance P- or calcitonin gene-related peptide-immunoreactive but did not bind isolectin B4. Under the electron microscope VR1 immunoreactivity was confined to unmyelinated axons and varicosities containing small clear and large dense-core synaptic vesicles. They occurred beneath or among epithelial cells or closely apposed to smooth muscle cells. Intravesical resiniferatoxin decreased VR1 immunoreactivity transiently. These data indicate that primary sensory fibres expressing VR1 are extremely abundant in the rat urinary tract and that, in contrast to the skin, they belong almost exclusively to the peptide-containing sub-population of primary afferents. As capsaicin-sensitive bladder afferents are involved in nociception and reflex micturition control, the numerous free terminal nerve endings expressing VR1 in the mucosa seem more adequate to accomplish the former function. However, the close apposition between VR1-expressing fibres and smooth muscle cells suggests that they may also encode the tonus of the muscular layer.
The distribution of different metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs 1a, 1b, 1c, 2/3, 4 and 5) has been compared in the superior colliculus of the rat, cat and ferret using immunohistochemical techniques and light microscopy. We found that although there are differences in labelling patterns between the species, there are also substantial similarities. In general, there was only light staining for the various mGluR1 splice variants, whereas labelling for the other Group I receptor, mGluR5, was heavier and with a pattern which suggested that at least some label arose from retinal afferents to the superficial superior colliculus. A further consistent feature in all species was labelling of astrocytes in the optic nerve/optic tract, superficial superior colliculus and brain at the collicular level with the antibody directed towards the Group II receptors, mGluR2 and mGluR3. Staining for the Group III receptor, mGluR4, was dense in the superficial superior colliculus in all species, with characteristics suggesting nerve fibre staining. mGluR4 staining was seen in the cat optic nerve/optic tract. One source of mGluR4 staining in the superior colliculus may thus be retinal axons, although other sources cannot be entirely excluded. These results demonstrate that distributions of mGluRs in these species have significant similarities but also some differences, suggesting that within the superior colliculus there may be some preservation of functional roles for some of the different receptor types. This is particularly so for the Group II and Group III receptors, which appear to have specific and distinct roles in the modulation of visual responses.
Circadian rhythms of physiology and behavior in mammals are driven by a circadian pacemaker located in the suprachiasmatic nucleus of the hypothalamus. The majority of neurons in the suprachiasmatic nucleus are GABAergic, and activation of GABA receptors in the suprachiasmatic nucleus can induce phase shifts of the circadian pacemaker both in vivo and in vitro. GABA also modulates the phase shifts induced by light in vivo, and photic information is thought to be conveyed to the suprachiasmatic nucleus by glutamate. In the present study, we examined the interactions between GABA receptor agonists, glutamate agonists, and light in hamsters in vivo. The GABA(A) receptor agonist muscimol and the GABA(B) receptor agonist baclofen were microinjected into the suprachiasmatic nucleus at circadian time 13.5 (early subjective night), followed immediately by a microinjection of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA). Both muscimol and baclofen significantly reduced the phase shifting effects of NMDA. Further, coadministration of tetrodotoxin with baclofen did not alter the inhibition of NMDA by baclofen, suggesting a postsynaptic mechanism for the inhibition of NMDA-induced phase shifts by baclofen. Finally, the phase shifting effects of microinjection of muscimol into the suprachiasmatic nucleus during the subjective day were blocked by a subsequent light pulse. These data suggest that GABA regulates the phase of the circadian clock through both pre- and postsynaptic mechanisms.
The type of social behavior displayed by an individual is profoundly influenced by its immediate social environment or context and its prior social experience. Although oxytocin is important in the expression of social behavior in several species, it is not known if social factors alter the ability of oxytocin to influence behavior. The purpose of the present study was to test the hypothesis that social experience and social context alter the ability of oxytocin to regulate flank marking (a form of scent marking) in female Syrian hamsters. Oxytocin was microinjected into the medial preoptic anterior hypothalamic continuum (MPOA-AH) of socially experienced, dominant female hamsters which were then tested with either a subordinate partner, with a novel partner, or alone. Oxytocin induced flank marking in a dose-dependent manner but only when the experienced dominant hamsters were tested with their familiar, subordinate partners. Oxytocin did not induce flank marking when injected into socially naive female hamsters that were tested with an opponent or alone. In males, by contrast, oxytocin induced flank marking in dominant hamsters when they were tested with their subordinate partner or alone. These data support the hypothesis that social experience and social context interact to regulate the ability of oxytocin to stimulate flank marking by its actions in the MPOA-AH in female hamsters.
Nicotine and other nicotinic receptor agonists have been found in a variety of studies to improve memory, while nicotinic receptor blockade can impair memory. The critical neural mechanisms for nicotinic involvement with memory are still under investigation. Initial evidence supports the involvement of the ventral hippocampus. Lesions in this area block nicotine-induced memory improvement and mecamylamine-induced impairment. Local ventral hippocampal application of the nicotinic channel blocker mecamylamine impairs memory in the 8-arm radial maze. Both alpha 4 beta 2 and alpha 7 nicotinic receptors seem to be involved. Ventral hippocampal infusions of high doses of the alpha 4 beta 2 nicotinic antagonist dihydro-beta-erythrodine (DH beta E) and the alpha 7 nicotinic antagonist methyllycaconitine (MLA) impair memory performance on the 8-arm radial maze. However, high doses of these drugs may limit specificity and they cause preconvulsant effects, which in themselves may affect memory. The current study used the more challenging 16-arm radial maze to determine the effects of lower doses of these drugs on memory and to differentiate effects on working and reference memory. Adult female Sprague-Dawley rats were trained on a working and reference memory task in the 16-arm radial maze and then were implanted with bilateral chronic guide cannulae directed to the ventral hippocampus. After recovery from surgery, the rats received acute intrahippocampal infusions of dose combinations of DH beta E and MLA. In the first study, DH beta E (0 and 6.75 microg/side) and MLA (0, 6.75, 13.5 and 27 microg/side) were administered in a counter-balanced order. In the second study, lower doses of DH beta E (0, 1.6375, 3.275 and 6.75 microg/side) were administered alone or with MLA (0 and 6.75 microg/side) in a counter-balanced order. In the first study, DH beta E caused a significant increase in both working and reference memory errors. MLA at a dose of 27 microg/side caused a significant increase in working memory errors, but this dose had no significant effect on reference memory errors. Interestingly, no additive effects were seen with combined administration of DH beta E and MLA in this study, and at the doses used, no effects were seen on response latency. In the second study, lower doses of DH beta E did not cause a significant deficit in working memory performance. Co-administration of MLA with these subthreshold doses did precipitate a memory impairment. The current results confirm the specificity of the memory deficits caused by these drugs. These results support the involvement of alpha 4 beta 2 and alpha 7 nicotinic receptors in the ventral hippocampus as being critical for memory function.
The correlation between the expression of a 72 kDa heat shock protein and vulnerability of hippocampal CA1, CA3, and dentate gyrus regions to glutamate toxicity was investigated using a highly specific antisense oligonucleotide technique. Glutamate (1 mM, 15 min) caused region-dependent neuronal damage in cultured hippocampal slices 24 h after exposure and the most severe damage was observed in CA1. When slices were heat-shocked (43.5 degrees C, 30 min) before exposure to glutamate, neuronal damage in CA1 was attenuated. The strongest protection was observed when the interval between the heat shock and the exposure to glutamate was 3 days, which coincided with the maximal induction of a 72 kDa heat shock protein in neurons. When the expression of a 72 kDa heat shock protein was suppressed by the antisense oligonucleotide, the protective effect of the heat shock was completely inhibited. Glutamate itself also induced a 72 kDa heat shock protein in neurons, region-dependently, 24 h after the exposure. The signal of a 72 kDa heat shock protein in CA3 and dentate gyrus was significantly stronger than that in CA1. When the antisense oligonucleotide was applied, the damage in CA3 and dentate gyrus was exaggerated dose-dependently, and this effect was more remarkable in CA3 than in the dentate gyrus. Based on these data, we concluded that: (i) a 72 kDa heat shock protein has a protective effect against the selective vulnerability of CA1 neurons, (ii) a 72 kDa heat shock protein is an essential factor for the tolerance exhibited by CA3 neurons, and (iii) dentate gyrus tolerance is based on mechanisms other than those mediated through a 72 kDa heat shock protein.
A GABA(A) receptor delta subunit-deficient mouse line was created by homologous recombination in embryonic stem cells to investigate the role of the subunit in the brain GABA(A) receptors. High-affinity [(3)H]muscimol binding to GABA sites as studied by ligand autoradiography was reduced in various brain regions of delta(-/-) animals. [(3)H]Ro 15-4513 binding to benzodiazepine sites was increased in delta(-/-) animals, partly due to an increment of diazepam-insensitive receptors, indicating an augmented forebrain assembly of gamma 2 subunits with alpha 4 subunits. In the western blots of forebrain membranes of delta(-/-) animals, the level of gamma 2 subunit was increased and that of alpha 4 decreased, while the level of alpha1 subunits remained unchanged. In the delta(-/-) forebrains, the remaining alpha 4 subunits were associated more often with gamma 2 subunits, since there was an increase in the alpha 4 subunit level immunoprecipitated by the gamma 2 subunit antibody. The pharmacological properties of t-butylbicyclophosphoro[(35)S]thionate binding to the integral ion-channel sites were slightly altered in the forebrain and cerebellum, consistent with elevated levels of alpha 4 gamma 2 and alpha 6 gamma 2 subunit-containing receptors, respectively.The altered pharmacology of forebrain GABA(A) receptors and the decrease of the alpha 4 subunit level in delta subunit-deficient mice suggest that the delta subunit preferentially assembles with the alpha 4 subunit. The delta subunit seems to interfere with the co-assembly of alpha 4 and gamma 2 subunits and, therefore, in its absence, the gamma 2 subunit is recruited into a larger population of alpha 4 subunit-containing functional receptors. These results support the idea of subunit competition during the assembly of native GABA(A) receptors.
Changes in the pattern of adrenomedullin expression in the rat cerebral cortex after ischemia-reperfusion were studied by light and electron microscopic immunohistochemistry using a specific antibody against human adrenomedullin (22-52). Animals were subjected to 30 min of oxygen and glucose deprivation in a perfusion model simulating global cerebral ischemia, and the cerebral cortex was studied after 0, 2, 4, 6, 8, 10 or 12 h of reperfusion. Adrenomedullin immunoreactivity was elevated in certain neuronal structures after 6-12 h of reperfusion as compared with controls. Under these conditions, numerous large pyramidal neurons and some small neurons were intensely stained in all cortical layers. The number of immunoreactive pre- and post-synaptic structures increased with the reperfusion time. Neurons immunoreactive for adrenomedullin presented a normal morphology whereas non-immunoreactive neurons were clearly damaged, suggesting a potential cell-specific protective role for adrenomedullin. The number and intensity of immunoreactive endothelial cells were also progressively elevated as the reperfusion time increased. In addition, the perivascular processes of glial cells and/or pericytes followed a similar pattern, suggesting that adrenomedullin may act as a vasodilator in the cerebrocortical circulation. In summary, adrenomedullin expression is elevated after the ischemic insult and seems to be part of CNS response mechanism to hypoxic injury.
Abnormalities in the anterior cingulate cortex have been reported in patients with schizophrenia, and have been implicated in the pathophysiology of this disorder. In the present study, we have examined antipsychotic-sensitive binding sites in the left anterior cingulate cortex of schizophrenia patients and controls. Using quantitative autoradiography and [(3)H]spiperone as a ligand, both saturation and competition experiments were performed in post-mortem brain tissue obtained from six schizophrenia and six control cases. Saturation experiments revealed that the maximum number of [(3)H]spiperone binding sites was significantly reduced by 31% in the schizophrenia group as compared to the control group (65.3+/-5.6 fmol/mg tissue versus 94.2+/-7.3 fmol/mg tissue). Increased dissociation constant was also observed in the schizophrenia group (2.2+/-0.4 nM versus 1.3+/-0.2 nM), but was not statistically significant (P=0.07). Competition experiments were performed in order to examine the pharmacological profile of [(3)H]spiperone binding, and revealed that: (i) displacement of [(3)H]spiperone binding by clozapine and mianserin was significantly reduced in the schizophrenia group as compared to the control group (-26% and -16% respectively); (ii) the order of displacement potency of the drugs tested was: haloperidol&gt;mianserin&gt;butaclamol approximately risperidone&gt;clozapine&gt;2-amino-6,7-dihydroxy-1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphthalene. Our results suggest a reduction of antipsychotic-sensitive binding sites in the anterior cingulate cortex of patients with schizophrenia. Such abnormality could lead to an imbalance in neurotransmitter regulation in the anterior cingulate cortex which may contribute to the emergence of some symptoms of schizophrenia.
Recent neuroimaging studies have suggested that similar cortical motor areas are recruited both by kinesthetic sensations elicited by tendon vibration and by voluntarily imaging one's own movements of the same joints. Little is known, however, as to whether kinesthetic motor imagery interacts with kinesthetic illusion. We examined such interaction by behavioral analysis in which 19 subjects imagined wrist flexion or extension, with or without illusory flexion induced by tendon vibration. Electromyograms were also recorded to monitor the peripheral modulations caused by the interaction. The kinesthetic motor imagery had a psychophysical effect on kinesthetic illusion in the absence of overt movement. It was confirmed that the subjects could imagine wrist movements without facilitating muscle activities in the absence of vibration stimuli. The electromyogram activity of the vibrated extensor muscles was significantly higher than that of non-vibrated flexor muscles. Motor imagery of wrist extension, when illusory flexion was experienced, reduced the angle of illusory flexion while enhancing extensor muscle activities in comparison with the control. On the other hand, flexion motor imagery increased the angle of illusory flexion with or without enhancement of flexor muscle activities. Our results indicate that motor imagery interacts with kinesthetic illusion with or without enhancement of activities of the related muscles. This suggests (1) that common neural substrates shared by imagery and by illusion exist and (2) that different physiological mechanisms contribute to the enhancement of muscle activities of vibrated muscles and their antagonists.
Recent work has shown that behaviorally meaningful sensory information processing is accompanied by the induction of several transcription factors in the barrel cortex of rodents. It is now generally accepted that stimulus-transcription coupling is an important step in the sequence of events leading to long-term plastic changes in neuronal structure and function. Nevertheless, so far few data are available as to what types of neurons are involved in such a genomic response. Here, we determined the morphological and neurochemical identity of neurons in rat barrel cortex showing a c-Fos-immunoreactive nucleus after exploration of an enriched environment. Double stainings of c-Fos and glial fibrillary acidic protein excluded astrocytes as a possible cell type expressing this transcription factor. By morphological phenotyping with intracellular Lucifer Yellow injections, it was found that a large majority were probably excitatory pyramidal cells, but inhibitory interneurons were also found to contain c-Fos-immunoreactive nuclei. By neurochemical phenotyping of GABAergic interneurons with specific antibodies, a significant induction was found, in a layer-dependent manner, for the populations of glutamic acid decarboxylase-, parvalbumin-, calbindin- and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-immunoreactive neurons but not for calretinin-immunoreactive cells in experimental compared to control columns. From these data we conclude that thalamic afferents effectively drive cortical excitatory as well as inhibitory intracortical circuits. Thus, the adaptations of receptive field properties of cortical neurons after different manipulations of the sensory periphery are likely to be caused by plastic changes in excitatory and inhibitory networks.
Cortical pyramidal neurons are considered to be less excitable in the immature cortex than in adults. Our previous report revealed that a negative feedback regulation of membrane excitability is highly correlated with a novel form of calcium release from inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP(3))-sensitive calcium stores (IP(3)-assisted calcium-induced calcium release) in neocortical pyramidal neurons under muscarinic cholinergic activation. As a step to understand the ground for the low membrane excitability in immature tissue, we examined development of IP(3)-assisted calcium-induced calcium release. In visual cortex neurons from 'juvenile' rats (2-3 weeks of age), an enhancement of spike-frequency adaptation occurred at high spike-frequencies (16-22 Hz), whereas the reduction was observed at low frequencies (6-10 Hz). IP(3)-assisted calcium-induced calcium release occurred at the higher frequencies only. In 'early' postnatal tissue (1 week of age), by contrast, at neither high nor low frequencies did this form of calcium release occur, and muscarinic cholinergic activation always induced a reduction of spike-frequency adaptation at any spike-frequencies. The mechanism for the failure of induction of IP(3)-assisted calcium-induced calcium release in 'early' postnatal tissue was investigated. Both an ample supply of calcium influx, elicited by higher frequency spike trains, and a supplementary injection of IP(3) through whole-cell pipets, combined together or applied alone, failed to enable IP(3)-assisted calcium-induced calcium release in 'early' postnatal tissue. Muscarinic cholinergic activation alone induced a conventional IP(3)-induced calcium release similar to that observed in neurons from 'juvenile' tissue. Together, it is most likely that functional IP(3)Rs and calcium channels are already present and functional, but are not yet adequately assembled to allow IP(3)-assisted calcium-induced calcium release in cortical pyramidal neurons from rats of 1 week old.
We reported a novel type of calcium release from inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP(3))-sensitive calcium stores synergistically induced by muscarinic acetylcholine receptor (mAchR)-mediated increase in IP(3) and action potential-induced calcium influx (IP(3)-assisted calcium-induced calcium release, IP(3)-assisted CICR). To clarify its functional significance, the effects of IP(3)-assisted CICR on spike-frequency adaptation were examined in layer II/III neurons from rat visual cortex slices. IP(3)-assisted CICR was enabled with a high concentration of the mAchR agonist carbachol (10 microM). The magnitude of this CICR was the more augmented at higher firing frequencies. With 10 microM carbachol, spike-frequency adaptation was reduced for spike trains at 'low' firing frequencies (6-10 Hz), but was rather enhanced at 'high' firing rates (16-22 Hz): excitability was down-regulated at 'high' frequencies. With 1 microM carbachol, by contrast, IP(3)-assisted CICR failed to occur, and spike-frequency adaptation was always reduced at any spike frequencies. Intracellular injection of the IP(3) receptor blocker heparin prevented both the mAchR-mediated occurrence of IP(3)-assisted CICR and enhancement of spike-frequency adaptation with 10 microM carbachol. Both of these mAchR-mediated effects were reproduced by intracellular IP(3) injection, and were shown to be associated with each other by simultaneous recordings of membrane potential and intracellular calcium increase. We propose that IP(3)-assisted CICR offers a novel way to protect these cortical neurons from hyperexcitability and presumably from excitotoxic cell death.
The transcription factor, activator protein 1 (AP-1) complexes (c-Jun and c-Fos heterodimers) has been shown to interact with transforming growth factor beta signaling in mammalian cells and Drosophila embryo. Here we show that c-Jun alone is involved in the anti-neuralizing activity of bone morphogenetic protein 4, a transforming growth factor beta superfamily member, in Xenopus neurogenesis. Co-injection of mRNAs encoding c-jun and a dominant negative bone morphogenetic protein receptor completely inhibits dominant negative bone morphogenetic protein receptor-induced neuralization and reverses the epidermal fate in the animal cap. Surprisingly, a dominant negative c-Jun does not induce neural tissue in the animal cap, but it synergizes with dominant negative bone morphogenetic protein receptor for neural induction. Temporal analysis using a dexamethasone-inducible c-Jun shows that exogenous c-Jun activity must be turned on before or at stage 11 to fulfill the anti-neuralizing effect. Neural inhibition by c-Jun does not occur until stage 13 suggesting that c-Jun probably acts by suppressing neural maintenance rather than neural initiation. This is also supported by the fact that c-Jun does not inhibit expression of the neural-initializing gene Zic-r1 but the neural cofactor Sox2, and that ectopic expression of Sox2 attenuates the anti-neuralizing effect of c-Jun. Finally, we display that the c-Jun effect is enhanced by an auto-regulatory loop between c-Jun and bone morphogenetic protein. These studies suggest that c-Jun/AP-1 is a converging point in both the fibroblast growth factor and transforming growth factor beta signaling pathways. Based on our findings, we propose that c-Jun synergizes with bone morphogenetic protein 4 signaling to inhibit neural development in Xenopus ectoderm.
Netrin-1 is a bifunctional secreted protein that directs axon extension in various groups of developing axonal tracts. The transmembrane DCC (deleted in colorectal cancer) receptor is described as netrin-1 receptor and is involved in the attractive effects of netrin-1. In this study, we examined the spatio-temporal expression patterns of both netrin-1 and DCC in the rat olfactory system at different stages of development and during axonal regeneration following unilateral bulbectomy. High DCC expression was detected on the pioneer olfactory axons as they are extending toward the telencephalon. This expression was transient since from embryonic day 16 onwards, DCC was no longer detected along the olfactory nerve path. From embryonic day 14 until birth, DCC was also expressed within the mesenchyme surrounding the olfactory epithelium. During the same period, netrin-1 protein was detected along the trajectory of olfactory axons up to the olfactory bulb and its expression pattern in the nasal mesenchyme largely overlapped that of DCC. Moreover, netrin-1 continued to be present during the two first post-natal weeks, and a weak protein expression still persisted in the dorso-medial region of the olfactory epithelium in adult rats. While unilateral bulbectomy induced a transient up-regulation of netrin-1 in the lamina propria, particularly in the dorso-medial region of the neuroepithelium, no DCC expression was detected on the regenerating olfactory axons. In the developing olfactory bulb, the extension of mitral cell axons was associated with DCC presence while netrin-1 was absent along this axonal path. DCC was also highly expressed in the newly formed glomeruli after birth, and a weak DCC expression was still detected in the glomerular layer in adult rats. Taken together, these data support the notion that netrin-1, via DCC expressed on axons, may play a role in promoting outgrowth and/or guidance of pioneering olfactory axons toward the olfactory bulb primordium. Moreover, association of netrin-1 with mesenchymal DCC may provide a permissive environment to the growth of both pioneer and later-growing axons. The maintenance of netrin-1 expression in the nasal mesenchyme of adult rats as well as its regional up-regulation following unilateral bulbectomy infer that netrin-1, even in the absence of DCC, may be involved in the process of axonal growth of newly differentiated olfactory receptor neurons probably through the use of other receptors.
Differential screening-selected gene aberrative in neuroblastoma (DAN) belongs to a novel gene family that includes the Xenopus head-inducing factor, Cerberus and the dorsalizing factor, Gremlin. It has been suggested that members of this family control diverse processes in growth, development and the cell cycle.Here, we demonstrate that the DAN protein is produced in the small neurons of the dorsal root ganglion and is transported to the nerve terminals in the spinal dorsal horn in adult rats. Furthermore, intrathecal injection of an antibody to the DAN protein suppressed inflammatory pain caused by the introduction of complete Freund's adjuvant or carrageenan into the rat hindpaw. The amount of mRNA for DAN in dorsal root ganglion neurons and of its expressed protein in the spinal dorsal horn were both increased in inflammatory models.Together, these data suggest that the DAN protein may be a novel neuromodulator in primary nociceptive nerve fibers.
The present study used Fos-like immunoreactivity to examine neuronal activation in response to colorectal distension in rats at 1 day or 30 days following spinal cord transection or sham transection. Fifty-five Wistar rats were anesthetized and an incision was made to expose the T(5) spinal segment. The dura was reflected away in all rats and a complete transection at the rostral end of the T(5) segment was given to the lesioned group. At 1 day (acute) or 30 days (chronic) post-surgery, conscious rats were subjected to a 2 h period of intermittent colorectal distension. Rats were perfused and spinal segments L(5)-S(2) were removed and processed for Fos-like immunoreactivity. Spinal cord transection alone had no effect on Fos-labeling in either acute or chronic rats. In acute rats, colorectal distension produced significant increases in Fos-labeling in the superficial and deep dorsal horn regions. In chronic rats, colorectal distension produced a three-fold increase in Fos-labeled neurons that was manifest throughout all laminar regions. These results indicate that the number of neurons expressing Fos in response to colorectal distension is much greater after a chronic spinal cord transection than after an acute transection. Since Fos is an indicator of neuronal activation, the results show that many more neurons become active in response to colorectal distension following a chronic spinal injury. This suggests that a functional reorganization of spinal circuits occurs following chronic spinal cord transection. This may ultimately result in altered visceral and somatic functions associated with spinal cord injury in humans.
In the present study we localized glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), and the high affinity receptor for GDNF (GFRalpha-1) in the rat retina. We also examined the effects of neurturin on the survival of axotomized retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) and compared neurturin-mediated RGC rescue to GDNF and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) neuroprotection. We administered combined injections of neurturin with BDNF or GDNF in order to determine if these factors rescue RGCs by different mechanisms. GDNF immunoreactivity was localized to RGCs, photoreceptors, and retinal pigment epithelial cells. GFRalpha-1 immunoreactivity was localized to RGCs, Mller cells, and photoreceptors. RGC densities in control retinas decreased from the original value of 2481+/-121 (RGCs/mm(2)+/-S.D.) to 347+/-100 at 14 days post-axotomy. Neurturin treatment significantly increased RGC survival after axotomy (745+/-94) similar to GDNF (868+/-110). BDNF treatment resulted in higher RGC survival (1109+/-156) than either neurturin or GDNF. Combined administration of neurturin with BDNF had additive effects on the survival of axotomized RGCs (1962+/-282), similar to combined administration of GDNF and BDNF (1825+/-269). Combined administration of neurturin and GDNF (1265+/-178) had an enhanced effect on RGC survival. These results suggest that neurturin, GDNF, and BDNF act independently to rescue injured RGCs. Our results also suggest that RGCs and retinal Mller cells may be responsive to GDNF because they both express GFRalpha-1. The present findings have implications for the rescue of injured retinal ganglion cells, as well as other CNS neurons that are responsive to neurturin, GDNF, and BDNF, including midbrain dopaminergic neurons and motor neurons.
The contribution of subclasses of K(+) channels to the response of mammalian neurons to anoxia is not yet clear. We investigated the role of ATP-sensitive (K(ATP)) and Ca(2+)-activated K(+) currents (small conductance, SK, big conductance, BK) in mediating the effects of chemical anoxia by cyanide, as determined by electrophysiological analysis and fluorometric Ca(2+) measurements in dorsal vagal neurons of rat brainstem slices. The cyanide-evoked persistent outward current was abolished by the K(ATP) channel blocker tolbutamide, but not changed by the SK and BK channel blockers apamin or tetraethylammonium. The K(+) channel blockers also revealed that ongoing activation of K(ATP) and SK channels counteracts a tonic, spike-related rise in intracellular Ca(2+) ([Ca(2+)](i)) under normoxic conditions, but did not modify the rise of [Ca(2+)](i) associated with the cyanide-induced outward current. Cyanide depressed the SK channel-mediated afterhyperpolarizing current without changing the depolarization-induced [Ca(2+)](i) transient, but did not affect spike duration that is determined by BK channels. The afterhyperpolarizing current and the concomitant [Ca(2+)](i) rise were abolished by Ca(2+)-free superfusate that changed neither the cyanide-induced outward current nor the associated [Ca(2+)](i) increase. Intracellular BAPTA for Ca(2+) chelation blocked the afterhyperpolarizing current and the accompanying [Ca(2+)](i) increase, but had no effect on the cyanide-induced outward current although the associated [Ca(2+)](i) increase was noticeably attenuated. Reproducing the cyanide-evoked [Ca(2+)](i) transient with the Ca(2+) pump blocker cyclopiazonic acid did not evoke an outward current. Our results show that anoxia mediates a persistent hyperpolarization due to activation of K(ATP) channels, blocks SK channels and has no effect on BK channels, and that the anoxic rise of [Ca(2+)](i) does not interfere with the activity of these K(+) channels.
The pretectum is composed of numerous small nuclei that control various oculomotor functions. In all the non-human mammals investigated, the different pretectal nuclei have been named uniformly according to their structural and functional homology. However, the human pretectal nuclei still bear their traditional, in most cases misleading, nomenclature.In order to reveal the presumed chemoarchitectonic similarities between human and non-human pretectal nuclei, neuropeptide Y (NPY)- and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP)-immunohistochemistry was performed in the human pretectum, after being utilised successfully for the identification of different pretectal nuclei in the cat. No VIP neurones were observed in the human pretectal area, but numerous NPY cells were found in the 'nucleus lentiformis', and in the anterior bulge of the pretectum, while the 'nucleus sublentiformis' contained an abundant NPY fibre network. Some NPY neurones were present in the 'principal pretectal nucleus' as well. The olivary pretectal nucleus possessed NPY fibres, too. In the accessory optic system, the lateral terminal nucleus contained both NPY and VIP neurones, while in the dorsal terminal nucleus only NPY neurones were found. Our chemoanatomical findings were compared to the standard cytoarchitecture as well. Based on the homotopies in the spatial distribution pattern of NPY neurones in the cat and human pretectum, the current, widely accepted non-human anatomical nomenclature was applied to the morphologically homologous nuclei of the human pretectum. Accordingly, the 'nucleus lentiformis' (which contains numerous NPY cells) corresponds to the nucleus of the optic tract, the 'nucleus sublentiformis' (containing a dense network of NPY fibres) to the posterior pretectal nucleus, and the 'nucleus of the pretectal area' corresponds to the medial pretectal nucleus. We identified the anterior part of the pretectum as the human equivalent of the anterior pretectal nucleus in non-humans, including its two compact and reticular subdivisions. In addition, two accessory optic nuclei were verified chemoarchitectonically in the human brain.
The identification of leptin and a range of novel anorectic and orexigenic peptides has focussed attention on the neural circuitry involved in the genesis of food intake and the reflex control of thermogenesis. Here, the neurotropic virus pseudorabies has been utilised in conjunction with the immunocytochemical localisation of a variety of neuroactive peptides and receptors to better define the pathways in the rat hypothalamus directed polysynaptically to the major thermogenic endpoint, brown adipose tissue. Infected neurones were detected initially in the stellate ganglion, then in the spinal cord followed by the appearance of third-order premotor neurones in the brainstem and hypothalamus. Within the hypothalamus these were present in the paraventricular nucleus, lateral hypothalamus, perifornical region, and retrochiasmatic nucleus. At slightly longer survival times virus-infected neurones appeared in the arcuate nucleus and dorsomedial hypothalamus. Neurones in the retrochiasmatic nucleus and in the adjacent lateral arcuate nucleus which project to the brown adipose tissue express cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript, pro-opiomelanocortin and leptin receptors. Neurones in the lateral hypothalamus, a site traditionally associated with the promotion of feeding, project to brown adipose tissue and large numbers of these contained melanin-concentrating hormone and orexin A and B. These data provide part of an anatomical framework which subserves the regulation of energy expenditure.
Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors modulate the release of GABA, glutamate, acetylcholine and dopamine in the brain. Here we describe a novel choline-sensitive nicotinic acetylcholine receptor that mediates enhanced GABA release in the chick ventral lateral geniculate nucleus. Whole-cell recordings in slices demonstrated that choline (0.03-10 mM), generally considered an alpha7-selective agonist, and carbachol (3-300 microM), a non-selective cholinergic agonist, both increased the frequency of spontaneous GABAergic events in ventral lateral geniculate nucleus neurons. Tetrodotoxin (0.5 microM) partially reduced responses to carbachol, but eliminated responses to choline. During long-term (5 min) exposure to choline the GABA enhancement was maintained until choline was washed out. Choline (300 microM) enhanced the frequency of spontaneous GABAergic events by 4.28-fold in control artificial cerebrospinal fluid. This choline-mediated enhancement was significantly reduced by the following nicotinic acetylcholine receptor antagonists: 1 microM dihydro-beta-erythroidine (1.49-fold increase, P&lt;0.001), 1 microM methyllycaconitine (1.53-fold, P&lt;0.001) and 0.2 microM alpha-conotoxin ImI (1.84-fold, P&lt;0.001). In contrast, no significant change was seen in the presence of 0.1 microM dihydro-beta-erythroidine, 0.1 microM methyllycaconitine, 0.1 microM alpha-bungarotoxin, 0.1 microM alpha-conotoxin MII, 0.1 microM kappa-bungarotoxin, or 1 microM alpha-conotoxin AuIB. These results indicate that choline, at concentrations as low as 100 microM, activates a nicotinic acetylcholine receptor that is distinct from the classical alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors previously known to be activated by choline.
Estradiol exerts beneficial effects on neurodegenerative disorders associated with the decline of cognitive performance. The present study was designed to further investigate the effect of 17beta-estradiol on learning and memory, and to evaluate its neuroprotective action on cholinergic cells of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis, a neural substrate of cognitive performance. Female rats were ovariectomized at an age of 6 months. Three weeks later they received injections of either a mid-physiological dose of 17beta-estradiol or vehicle (oil), every other day for 2 weeks. The effect of estradiol on cognitive performance was tested in two associative learning paradigms. In the two-way active shock avoidance task estradiol-replaced animals learned significantly faster, while in the passive shock avoidance test no differences were observed between the experimental groups. Subsequent unilateral infusion of N-methyl-D-aspartate in the nucleus basalis magnocellularis resulted in a significant loss of cholinergic neurons concomitant with the loss of their fibers invading the somatosensory cortex. Estradiol treatment did not affect the total number of choline-acetyltransferase-immunoreactive neurons and their coexpression of the p75 low-affinity neurotrophin receptor either contralateral or ipsilateral to the lesion. In contrast, cholinergic fiber densities in estradiol-treated animals were greater both in the contralateral and ipsilateral somatosensory cortices as was detected by quantitative choline-acetyltransferase and vesicular acetylcholine transporter immunocytochemistry. However, estradiol treatment did not affect the lesion-induced relative percentage loss of cholinergic fibers. A significant decline of synaptophysin immunoreactivity paralleled the cholinergic damage in the somatosensory cortex of oil-treated animals, whereas an almost complete preservation of synaptic density was determined in estradiol-treated rats. Our results indicate that estradiol treatment enhances the cortical cholinergic innervation but has no rescuing effect on cholinergic nerve cells in the basal forebrain against excitotoxic damage. Nevertheless, estradiol may restore or maintain synaptic density in the cerebral cortex following cholinergic fiber loss. This estradiol effect may outweigh the lack of cellular protection on cholinergic cells at the functional level.
There is evidence that early environmental conditions have profound effects on the morphology of the dentate granule cells. The aim of the present study was to obtain information about the effects of early environment on neuron morphology in the hippocampal field CA3, a structure closely linked to the dentate gyrus. The dendritic trees and the somata of field CA3a pyramidal neurons were quantified in Golgi-stained brains of guinea-pigs of both sexes raised in either a social or an isolated environment. Two pyramidal neuron types were found in CA3a, characterized by either a long or a short shaft. Environment affected the apical tree of the long-shaft neurons only in males and that of the short-shaft neurons in both sexes. In isolated males the long-shaft neurons had a decrease in the number of dendritic intersections (62-82%), branching points (76%) and length (71%) in the middle third of the apical tree. The short-shaft neurons had a decrease in the number of intersections at two distal levels only in both isolated males (26, 83%) and females (77, 82%). The shaft spine density was affected by environment in the long-shaft neurons of males only, with a density increase (110%) in isolated males. In both sexes the basal tree of only the long-shaft neurons was affected by environment. Isolated males had a decrease in the number of dendritic intersections (65-88%), primary dendrites (80%) and dendritic length (88%) and isolated females had a decrease in the number of intersections (51-89%), branching points (77%) and dendritic length (85%). The soma major axis of only the long-shaft neurons was affected by environment with a reduction in isolated males (90%) but an increase in isolated females (111%). These results demonstrate dendritic atrophy of CA3a pyramidal neurons following early isolation and a different reactivity to environment of the two CA3a pyramidal neuron types, their apical and basal trees and the two sexes. The dendritic atrophy of CA3a neurons caused by isolation is likely to be associated with an impairment in the physiology of the hippocampal formation and in the forms of memory in which the hippocampal formation plays a major role.
The neostriatum caudolaterale, in the chick also referred to as dorsocaudal neostriatal complex, is a polymodal associative area in the forebrain of birds that is involved in sensorimotor integration and memory processes. We have used whole-cell patch-clamp recordings in chick brain slices to characterize the principal cell types of the neostriatum caudolaterale. Electrophysiological properties distinguished four classes of neurons. The morphological characteristics of these classes were examined by intracellular injection of Lucifer Yellow. Type I neurons characteristically fired a brief burst of action potentials. Morphologically, type I neurons had large somata and thick dendrites with many spines. Type II neurons were characterized by a repetitive firing pattern with conspicuous frequency adaptation. Type II neurons also had large somata and thick dendrites with many spines. There was no clear morphological distinction between type I and type II neurons. Type III neurons showed high-frequency firing with little accommodation and a prominent time-dependent inward rectification. They had thin, sparsely spiny dendrites and extensive local axonal arborizations. Electrophysiological and morphological properties indicated them as being interneurons. Type IV neurons had a longer action potential duration, a larger input resistance, and a longer membrane time constant than the other classes. Type IV neurons had small somata and short dendrites with few spines. The long axon collaterals of neurons in all spiny cell classes (types I, II, IV) followed similar patterns, suggesting that neurons from all these types can contribute to the projections of the neostriatum caudolaterale to sensory, limbic and motor areas. The electrophysiological and anatomical characterization of the major classes of neurons in the caudal forebrain of the chick provides a framework for the investigation of sensorimotor integration and learning at the cellular level in birds.
Zinc-rich synaptic boutons in the neocortex arise from the neocortex itself. However, the precise organisation of these circuits is not known. Therefore, the laminar and areal pattern of zinc-rich cortico-cortical connections between visual areas was studied by retrograde tracing using intracerebral injections of sodium selenite. This tracer was injected in supragranular and infragranular layers in various cortical visual areas in order to precipitate zinc in the synaptic boutons, which was retrogradely transported to neuronal somata. Supragranular injections led to retrogradely labelled neurones in layer II-III, ipsilaterally and contralaterally. Neurones often appeared in groups or clusters. Infragranular injections labelled neurones in layers II-III, VI and, to a lesser extent, in layer V, both ipsilaterally and contralaterally. Neurones in layer VI formed a wide continuous band. Concerning the connections between visual (=occipital) areas, injections in occipital area 2, lateral part (Oc2L), rendered the largest number of retrogradely labelled neurones, which were located in occipital area 1 (Oc1), occipital area 2, medial part (Oc2M) and outside the visual cortex. Callosal zinc-rich projections were dense in the homotopic area but sparse in Oc1 and temporal cortex. Injections in Oc1 rendered moderate numbers of labelled neurones in occipital areas, in both hemispheres. Injections in Oc2M labelled moderate numbers of neurones in occipital areas in both hemispheres and in the frontal and cingulate cortices. These results indicate that zinc-rich cortico-cortical connections are organised into two segregated systems arising from either supragranular or infragranular neurones. In addition, in the visual cortex, zinc-rich systems appear to converge on Oc2L. Zinc-rich connections appear as an extensive, highly organised association system.
During rapid eye movement (REM) sleep, activity of non-retinal origin is propagated into central visual-system pathways in a manner similar, in pattern and intensity, to central visual-system activity that is exogenously generated in waking. It has been hypothesized that REM sleep, which is more abundantly represented early in life than later, functions to provide adjunct 'afferent' input for shaping synaptic connectivity during brain maturation. Here we present data that support this proposal. Recent studies have described a developmentally regulated form of in vitro long-term potentiation (LTP) in the visual cortex that is experience- and age-dependent. In immature rats, suppression of retinal activation of the visual system by removal of visual experience (dark rearing) extends the age when the developmentally regulated form of LTP can be produced. This study tests whether suppression of REM-state activation of the visual system also lengthens the developmental period in which this specific form of LTP can be elicited. Young rats were deprived of REM sleep by the multiple-small-platforms-over-water method during the typically latest week for induction of such LTP in slices of visual cortex. After this week, we could still induce LTP in slices from nearly all the REM-sleep-deprived rats (8/9) but not from age-matched rats that had not lost REM sleep (0/5). The control rats had been housed on large platforms that allow the animals to obtain REM sleep. Only body weights and the concentration of thyrotrophin-releasing hormone in the hypothalamus distinguished home-caged, normal-sleeping controls from both groups of platform animals. On all measures, stress levels were not dissimilar in the two platforms groups. After 7 days of behavioral suppression of REM sleep in immature rats, and consequent reduction of the intense, extra-retinal activity endogenously generated during this sleep state, we found that the period was extended in which developmentally regulated synaptic plasticity (LTP) could be elicited in slices of visual neocortex. These studies support the role of REM sleep and its associated neuronal activity in brain maturation.
BTB/POZ proteins can influence the cell cycle and contribute to oncogenesis. Many family members are present in the mammalian CNS. Previous work demonstrated elevated NAC1 mRNA levels in the rat nucleus accumbens in response to cocaine. NAC1 acts like other BTB/POZ proteins that regulate transcription but is unusual because of the absence of identifiable DNA binding domains. cDNAs were isolated encoding two NAC1 isoforms differing by only 27 amino acids (the longer isoform contains 514 amino acids). The mRNAs for both isoforms were simultaneously expressed throughout the rat brain and peripheral tissues. Semi-quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction analysis revealed that the mRNA of the longer isoform was more abundant than the mRNA of the shorter isoform. Western blot analysis demonstrated a similar unequal distribution between the isoforms in the CNS. The longer isoform was the more abundant of the two NAC1 proteins and the ratio between them differed throughout the rat brain. The shorter isoform was not detected in most of the examined peripheral tissues, suggesting differences from the CNS in post-transcriptional processing. Both isoforms repressed transcription in H293T cells using a Gal4-luciferase reporter system. However, the shorter isoform did not repress transcription as effectively as the longer isoform. Transfection of different ratios for both isoforms, in order to replicate the relative amounts observed throughout the CNS, supported an interaction between the isoforms. The net effect on transcriptional repression was determined by the ratio of the two NAC1 isoforms. Each isoform exhibited the subnuclear localization that is characteristic of many BTB/POZ proteins. A rapid and transient increase in the level of the shorter isoform occurred in the nucleus accumbens 2 h following a single i.p. cocaine injection. We conclude that the two isoforms of NAC1 may differentially affect neuronal functions, including the regulation of cocaine-induced locomotion.
Group III metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) are selectively activated by L-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyrate (L-AP4), which produces depression of synaptic transmission. The relative contribution of different group III mGluRs to the effects of L-AP4 remains to be clarified. Here, we assessed the distribution of mGluR4 in the rat and mouse brain using affinity-purified antibodies raised against its entire C-terminal domain. The antibodies reacted specifically with mGluR4 and not with other mGluRs in transfected COS 7 cells. No immunoreactivity was detected in brains of mice with gene-targeted deletion of mGluR4. Pre-embedding immunocytochemistry for light and electron microscopy showed the most intense labelling in the cerebellar cortex, basal ganglia, the sensory relay nuclei of the thalamus, and some hippocampal areas. Immunolabelling was most intense in presynaptic active zones. In the basal ganglia, both the direct and indirect striatal output pathways showed immunolabelled terminals forming mostly type II synapses on dendritic shafts. The localisation of mGluR4 on GABAergic terminals of striatal projection neurones suggests a role as a presynaptic heteroreceptor. In the cerebellar cortex and hippocampus, mGluR4 was also localised in terminals establishing type I synapses, where it probably operates as an autoreceptor. In the hippocampus, mGluR4 labelling was prominent in the dentate molecular layer and CA1-3 strata lacunosum moleculare and oriens. Somatodendritic profiles of some stratum oriens/alveus interneurones were richly decorated with mGluR4-labelled axon terminals making either type I or II synapses. This differential localisation suggests a regulation of synaptic transmission via a target cell-dependent synaptic segregation of mGluR4. Our results demonstrate that, like other group III mGluRs, presynaptic mGluR4 is highly enriched in the active zone of boutons innervating specific classes of neurones. In addition, the question of alternatively spliced mGluR4 isoforms is discussed.
Spikelets, or fast prepotentials as they are frequently referred to, are a common feature of the electrophysiology of central neurones and are invariably correlated with the presence of electrotonic coupling via gap junctions. Here we report that in the presence of the metabotropic glutamate receptor agonists, trans-ACPD or DHPG, thalamocortical neurones of the cat dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus maintained in vitro exhibit stereotypical spikelets that possess similar properties to those described in other brain areas. These spikelets were routinely observed in the presence of antagonists of fast chemical synaptic transmission, were resistant to the application of a variety of voltage-dependent Ca(2+) channel blockers but were abolished by tetrodotoxin. In addition, spikelets were reversibly blocked by the putative gap junction blocker carbenoxolone and were nearly always accompanied by dye-coupling. These results indicate that thalamocortical neurones may be electrotonically coupled via gap junctions with spikelets representing attenuated action potentials from adjoining cells. We suggest that the presence of electrotonic communication between thalamocortical neurones would have major implications for the understanding of both physiological (Steriade et al., 1993; Sillito et al., 1994; Alonso et al., 1996; Neuenschwander and Singer, 1996; Weliky and Katz, 1999) and pathological (Steriade and Contreras, 1995; Pinault et al., 1998) synchronised electrical activity in the thalamus.
Involvement of both the serotonergic and the endogenous opioid systems in the onset of depressive behavior has been suggested. Previously we showed that serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine) facilitates beta-endorphin release in the nucleus accumbens (NAcc). Herein, the microdialysis method was used to assess in vivo the effects of serotonin on beta-endorphin release in a rat model of depressive behavior (the Flinders sensitive line, FSL), before and after antidepressant treatment. The basal extracellular level of beta-endorphin in the NAcc of FSL rats did not differ significantly from that in control rats. However, serotonin-induced beta-endorphin release was impaired in FSL rats. Chronic treatment (18 days) with desipramine or paroxetine did not significantly affect the extracellular levels of beta-endorphin in the NAcc of either the FSL or control rats. However, the chronic antidepressant treatment did normalize the serotonin-induced release of beta-endorphin in FSL rats, as well as their behavioral manifestation of depressive behavior. Our results show that depressive behavior may relate to an impaired effect of serotonin on beta-endorphin release in the NAcc in a rat model of depression, and suggest a possible new mode of action of antidepressant drugs.
The peptide FMRFamide (Phe-Met-Arg-Phe-NH(2)) is known to modulate the circadian pacemaker found in the eye of the marine snail Bulla gouldiana. In the present study, we investigated the cellular mechanisms underlying this modulation by examining the effects of FMRFamide on the membrane properties of the circadian pacemaker cells, known as basal retinal neurons in this preparation. Bath application of FMRFamide (0.1-1 microM) increased the membrane conductance, and hyperpolarized the membrane potential of these neurons. Next, perforated-patch recordings were used to demonstrate that FMRFamide reversibly increased the outward current amplitude due to an augmentation of a non-inactivating calcium-independent current. Reversal potential of the tail currents and its dependence on extracellular potassium concentration suggested potassium ions as the charge carrier for this current. The peptide-modulated outward current was blocked by 54% after bath application of the potassium channel blocker tetraethylammonium chloride and completely blocked by substituting cesium for intracellular potassium. Voltage dependence, activation kinetics and tail current kinetics of the FMRFamide-modulated current were consistent with values found for the delayed rectifier current.Overall, our data suggest that FMRFamide modulates a delayed rectifier potassium current and at least one other, less voltage-dependent conductance. This provides a mechanistic explanation for FMRFamide's ability to both shift the phase and attenuate light-induced phase shifts of the circadian pacemaker in B. gouldiana.
The effects of serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine or 5HT) on chick alpha7 nicotinic receptors have already been described. However similar studies on human alpha7 receptors have been lacking. To begin to fill this deficiency, studies were made on wild-type and mutant human alpha7 (halpha7) receptors expressed in Xenopus oocytes or human BOSC 23 cells. In oocytes wild-type halpha7 receptors were blocked by 5HT, and this block was voltage-dependent. In contrast, 5HT acted as an agonist on halpha7-mutant receptors (L248T). Outside-out membrane-patches from BOSC 23 cells expressing halpha7-mutant receptors exhibited spontaneous channel openings of two conductance levels (59 pS and 76 pS) and short mean open time (0.9 ms). halpha7-Mutant channels activated by nicotine or 5HT displayed similar conductances and high Ca(2+) permeability; but longer duration (2.7 ms) than the spontaneous openings. Mutations at Cys190 and Cys191, in the extracellular N-terminus of the human alpha7 gene, did not prevent receptor expression and incorporation in the oocyte membrane (determined by alpha-bungarotoxin binding). However, both 5HT and nicotine were incapable of gating the channels, indicating that the mutated Cys residues are in, or near, the 5HT- and nicotine-binding site. This is the first report that alpha7 receptors have spontaneous openings; and that 5HT is an agonist of halpha7-mutant receptors, and an antagonist of halpha7-wild-type receptors, through interactions at, or near the acetylcholine-binding sites.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) synthesized in peripheral organs plays a critical role in the development and maintenance of the nervous system and also participates in processing nociceptive stimuli. Previous studies suggest that reproductive hormones may regulate the expression of NGF. Ovariectomies were performed on female mice, and mice were killed 24 h after hormone replacement to evaluate the effects of estrogen and progesterone on NGF in peripheral organs, specifically the uterus, bladder, heart, and salivary gland. Sham-operated intact mice and untreated ovariectomized mice served as controls. Immunohistochemistry demonstrated the presence of NGF, estrogen receptor-alpha, estrogen receptor-beta, and progesterone receptors in these organs. Ovariectomy caused a significant decrease in NGF protein content in the uterus, and short term treatment of ovariectomized mice with estrogen and/or progesterone increased uterine NGF mRNA and restored NGF protein to concentrations similar to intact control mice. Ovariectomy did not affect NGF protein concentrations in the salivary gland, but treatment of ovariectomized mice with estrogen alone or in conjunction with progesterone stimulated concentrations of NGF protein that exceeded those observed in intact control or ovariectomized, untreated mice. NGF mRNA was increased in salivary glands from ovariectomized mice treated with progesterone alone or in combination with estrogen relative to other groups. NGF protein content of the hearts of ovariectomized mice treated with estrogen alone or in conjunction with progesterone was increased relative to intact controls and ovariectomized, untreated mice, but neither ovariectomy or hormone replacement affected NGF mRNA content in the heart. NGF protein content of the bladder was unaffected by ovariectomy or hormone treatment, and bladder NGF mRNA was unaffected by ovariectomy or hormone treatment. Collectively, these results indicate that reproductive hormones have the capacity to regulate NGF message and protein in a manner that varies among organs. Fluctuations in the expression of NGF, in conjunction with other factors, may help to explain gender differences in pain sensation and inflammatory response.
Individual skeletal muscle fibers in newborn vertebrates are innervated at a single endplate by several motor axons. During the first postnatal weeks, the polyneuronal innervation decreases in an activity-dependent process of synaptic elimination by axonal competition. Because synaptic activity depends strongly on the influx of calcium from the external media via presynaptic voltage-dependent calcium channels, we investigate the relationship between calcium channels, synaptic activity and developmental axonal elimination. We studied how several calcium channel blockers affect (after 1 h of incubation) the total number of functional axons per muscle fiber (poly-innervation index) of the Levator auris longus muscle of 6-day-old rats. We determined the poly-innervation index by gradually raising the stimulus amplitude and recorded the recruitment of one or more axons that produced a stepwise increment of the endplate potential.The L-type channel blocker nitrendipine (1 microM) increased the mean poly-innervation index (35.79% +/- 3.91; P&lt;0.05). This effect was not washed out with normal Ringer, although the poly-innervation index returned to the control value when high-calcium Ringer (5 mM) was used. The P-type channel blocker omega-agatoxin-IVA (100 nM) also increased the number of recruitable endplate potentials (27.49% +/- 1.78; P&lt;0.05), whereas N-type channel blocker omega-conotoxin-GVIA (1 microM) was ineffective (P&gt;0.05). However, neither nitrendipine nor omega-agatoxin-IVA modified the poly-innervation index on high-calcium Ringer (P&gt;0.05 in both cases). A more intense inhibition of calcium influx (by the sequential use of two calcium channel blockers) did not recruit any additional silent synapses. Moderately increasing the magnesium ions (by 500 microM) in the physiological solution produces a synaptic recruitment (36.78% +/- 2.1; P&lt;0.05) similar to that with L- and P-type calcium channel blockers incubation. This magnesium effect was not washed with normal Ringer but a Ringer that is high in calcium can reverse it. The recruited endings were identified by selective activity-dependent loading with styryl dyes. Rhodaminated alpha-bungarotoxin-labeled acetylcholine receptors were present in the postsynaptic counterpart. Based on these findings we suggest that, before their complete retraction, functionally silent nerve terminals can be manifested or recovered if calcium influx is reduced by a calcium channel blocker or if external magnesium is increased. The normal activation of this calcium-dependent silencing mechanism during development may be related to the final loss of the supernumerary axons.
In this study we investigated whether cultured dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons from the adult rat express binding sites for calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP). These were identified on fixed cells by using CGRP labeled at the N-terminal site with 1.4-nm gold particles. After 1 day in culture, about 20% of small to medium-sized DRG neurons showed CGRP-gold binding. Binding of CGRP-gold was dose-dependently reduced by coadministration of CGRP. The calcium imaging technique in living cells revealed that the bath administration of CGRP evoked an increase of the intracellular calcium in up to 30% of the DRG neurons tested. Both depletion of intracellular calcium stores by thapsigargin or using a calcium-free medium blocked the CGRP-mediated increase of cytosolic calcium in most neurons. Thus intracellular and extracellular sources of calcium are relevant for the CGRP response. Using the whole-cell patch-clamp technique, about 30% of the neurons were found to exhibit an inward current and a depolarization upon administration of CGRP close to the neurons. Immunocytochemical double-labeling techniques showed that most of the CGRP-gold binding sites were expressed in unmyelinated (neurofilament 200-negative) DRG neurons. Most of the neurons with CGRP-gold binding sites also expressed the tyrosine kinase A receptor, and all of them showed CGRP-like immunoreactivity. This study shows, therefore, that a subpopulation of unmyelinated, peptidergic primary afferent neurons express CGRP binding sites that can be activated by CGRP in an excitatory direction. The binding sites may serve as autoreceptors because all of these neurons also synthesize CGRP. The activation of CGRP binding sites may sensitize primary afferent neurons and influence the release of mediators.
Receptors for ATP have been reported on peripheral nerve terminals. It is a widespread assumption that the axonal membrane does not possess this kind of chemosensitivity, although P2X purinoceptors have been found in isolated rat vagus nerve. Therefore, in the present study, effects of ATP and analogues were tested on the excitability of unmyelinated axons in isolated rat sural nerve, mouse dorsal roots, and human sural nerve. Bath application of ATP to all three types of axonal preparations increased axonal excitability, but the underlying receptors appear to differ in the various preparations. In rat sural nerve, alpha,beta-adenosine-5'-methylene triphosphate produced the strongest excitation. This effect was blocked by pyridoxal-phosphate-6-azophenyl-2',5'-disulphonic acid and indicates the presence of P2X receptors. In mouse dorsal roots, differences were found between fast and slow C-fibres. The latter responded to both P2X receptor and adenosine receptor agonists. In contrast, effects of ATP on faster-conducting C-fibres seem to be caused exclusively by effects of ATP on adenosine receptors. Application of ATP also excited C-fibres in fascicles of isolated human nerve. The pharmacological profile indicates activation of A(2B) adenosine receptors. However, we could not detect P2X receptors in this preparation with our techniques. These data show that the ATP sensitivity of sensory neurones is not restricted to their terminals. Activation of axonal purinergic receptors may contribute to the transduction of sensory, including nociceptive, stimuli.
We studied the synaptic input from the nucleus interpositus of the cerebellum to the magnocellular division of the red nucleus (RNm) in the mouse using combined electrophysiological and neuroanatomical methods. Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings were made from brain slices (125-150 microm) cut in a horizontal plane oriented to pass through both red nucleus and nucleus interpositus. Large cells that were visually selected and patched were injected with Lucifer Yellow and identified as RNm neurons. Using anterograde tracing from nucleus interpositus in vitro, we examined the course of interposito-rubral axons which are dispersed in the superior cerebellar peduncle. In vitro monosynaptic responses in RNm were elicited by an electrode array placed contralaterally in this pathway but near the midline. Mixed excitatory post-synaptic potentials (EPSPs)/inhibitory post-synaptic potentials (IPSPs) were observed in 48 RNm neurons. Excitatory components of the evoked potentials were studied after blocking inhibitory components with picrotoxin (100 microM) and strychnine (5 microM). All RNm neurons examined continued to show monosynaptic EPSPs after non-N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) glutamate receptor components were blocked with 10 microM 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione or 5 microM 2,3-dihydro-6-nitro-7-sulfamoyl-benzo(f)-quinoxaline (NBQX; n=12). The residual potentials were identified as NMDA receptor components since they (i) were blocked by the addition of the NMDA receptor antagonist, D,L-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (APV), (ii) were voltage-dependent, and (iii) were enhanced by Mg(2+) removal. Inhibitory components of the evoked potentials were studied after blocking excitatory components with NBQX and APV. Under these conditions, all RNm neurons studied continued to show IPSPs. Blockade of GABA(A) receptors reduced but did not eliminate the IPSPs. These were eliminated when GABA(A) receptor blockade was combined with strychnine to eliminate glycine components of the IPSPs. Thus, IPSPs evoked by midline stimulation of the superior cerebellar peduncle, while blocking alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid (AMPA) and NMDA receptors, raise the possibility of direct inhibitory inputs to RNm from the cerebellum. In summary we propose that the special properties of the NMDA receptor components are considered important for the generation of RNm motor commands: their slow time course will contribute a steady driving force for sustained discharge and their voltage dependency will facilitate abrupt transitions from a resting state of quiescence to an active state of intense motor command generation.
Physiological, pharmacological and morphological properties of superficial superior colliculus neurones (n=93) were characterised using whole-cell patch-clamp recordings in rat brain slices. Six cell types (narrow- and wide-field vertical, horizontal, piriform, marginal and stellate) were identified based on Lucifer Yellow labelling but no cell type-specific spike pattern could be identified. Resting membrane potentials were homogeneous (mean: -67.1 +/- 0.7 mV, n=48), and spike frequencies ranged from 10 to 70 Hz (80 pA current injection). About 66% of the cells displayed regular and sustained spike production, throughout all neuronal categories. Rebound spikes and spontaneous activity were observed frequently in all cell types. Synaptically evoked action potentials appeared as single spikes (mean amplitude: 76.0 +/- 3.2 mV, n=34) followed by a fast after-hyperpolarising potential (mean amplitude: 25.4 +/- 1.4 mV, n=34) and variable late potentials (late after-depolarising and/or -hyperpolarising). Pharmacologically, a characterisation using GABA and its subtype-specific agonists indicated a strong inhibitory influence of this transmitter system on &gt;90% of cells. The GABA(A) receptor agonist, 4,5,6,7-tetrahydroisoxazolo[5,4-c]pyridin-3-ol (100 microM), caused a reversible hyperpolarisation (approximately 9 mV) and spike inhibition of all neurones studied. This was more pronounced for intrinsic than for synaptically evoked spikes. Assessment of the GABA(C) receptor agonist, cis-4-aminocrotonic acid (1 mM), also revealed a hyperpolarisation (approximately 3 mV) and an inhibitory action on firing, but this was not as potent and homogeneous, compared to the GABA(A) receptor agonist. Further, the GABA(B) receptor agonist, baclofen (50-100 microM), had more variable (hyperpolarising, depolarising or no change) effects on the membrane potential. It showed little modulation of current-induced action potentials but fully blocked synaptic spikes. Assessment of GABA receptor antagonist actions revealed the presence of weak tonic and strong phasic GABA(A) receptor-mediated inhibition in the superficial superior colliculus: application of the GABA(A) receptor antagonist, bicuculline (100 microM), led to a generally enhanced excitability and depolarisation (approximately 5 mV). Intrinsic firing was somewhat enhanced, but synaptic spiking was drastically potentiated and prolonged. In contrast, 1,2,5,6-tetrahydro-(pyridin-4-yl) methylphosphinic acid (TPMPA; 100 microM), the GABA(C) receptor antagonist, produced little effect on these physiological parameters. The GABA(B) receptor antagonist, CGP35348 (200 microM), caused a partial inhibition of late after-hyperpolarising potentials (approximately 30%). Uptake of GABA contributes little to endogenous inhibition in the superior colliculus slice preparation, as suggested by the action of GABA uptake inhibitors SKF89976 (50-100 microM) and nipecotic acid (200-500 microM), both had no obvious effect on physiological parameters. However, in the presence of these compounds, sub-maximal inhibitory actions of GABA were potentiated. In conclusion, different cell types in the superficial superior colliculus do not display distinct physiological properties and are subject to strong inhibitory modulation. We therefore suggest that signal processing in this brain region does not require cell type-specific encoding of information. In line with evidence provided by previous in vivo investigations, identification of visual stimuli and orientation responses appears to be realised via the network properties of the receptive fields that form topographic maps.
The neural circuits that modulate the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of the rat were studied with the retrograde transneuronal tracer--pseudorabies virus. First-order afferents were also identified using cholera toxin beta subunit. Olfactory processing regions (viz., main olfactory bulb, anterior olfactory nucleus, taenia tecta, endopiriform nucleus, medial amygdaloid nucleus, piriform cortex, and posteriomedial cortical amygdaloid nucleus) were virally labeled. The subfornical organ directly innervates SCN; two other circumventricular organs: organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis and area postrema provide multisynaptic inputs. Direct limbic afferents arise from lateral septum, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, amygdalohippocampal zone, and ventral subiculum; multineuronal connections come from the basolateral and basomedial amygdaloid nuclei, ventral hippocampus, amygdalopiriform area, as well as lateral entorhinal, perirhinal, and ectorhinal cortices. Most preoptic regions project directly to SCN. Multisynaptic inputs come from the lateral preoptic region. Hypothalamic inputs originate from the anterior, arcuate, dorsal, dorsomedial, lateral, paraventricular, posterior, periventricular posterior, retrochiasmatic, subparaventricular, ventromedial and tuberomammillary nuclei. Paraventricular thalamic nucleus, intergeniculate leaflet and zona incerta directly innervate SCN. Polyneuronal inputs arise from the subparafascicular parvicellular thalamic nucleus. Brainstem afferents originate from the pretectum, superior colliculus, periaqueductal gray matter, parabrachial nucleus, pedunculopontine nucleus, raphe system, locus coeruleus, nucleus incertus and reticular formation. Nucleus tractus solitarius, C3 catecholamine region, rostral ventrolateral medulla and spinal trigeminal nucleus provide indirect inputs. We propose that the SCN receives feedback primarily from interoceptive systems such as the circumventricular, autonomic, and neuroendocrine systems that are important in the central regulation of glucose metabolism (e.g., insulin and glucocorticoids).
The posteromedial lateral suprasylvian area of the cat is known to be involved in the analysis of motion and motion in depth. However, it remains unclear whether binocular cells in the posteromedial lateral suprasylvian area rely upon phase or positional offsets between their receptive fields in order to code binocular disparity. The present study aims at clarifying more precisely the neural mechanisms underlying stereoperception with two objectives in mind. First, to determine whether cells in the posteromedial lateral suprasylvian area code phase disparities. Secondly, to examine whether the cells sensitive to phase disparity are the same as those which code for position disparities or whether each group represent a different sub-population of disparity-sensitive neurons. We investigated this by testing both types of disparities on single neurons in this area. The results show that the vast majority of cells (74%), in the posteromedial lateral suprasylvian area, are sensitive to relative interocular phase disparities. These cells showed mostly facilitation (95%) and a few (5%) summation interactions. Moreover, most cells (81%) were sensitive to both position and phase disparities. The results of this study show that most binocular cells in the posteromedial lateral suprasylvian area are sensitive to both positional and phase offsets which demonstrate the importance of this area in stereopsis.
The loss of dopaminergic neurones in the substantia nigra with Parkinson's disease may result from inflammation-induced proliferation of microglia and reactive macrophages expressing inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS). We have investigated the effects of the supranigral administration of lipopolysaccharide on iNOS-immunoreactivity, 3-nitrotyrosine formation and tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive neuronal number, and retrogradely labelled fluorogold-positive neurones in the ventral mesencephalon in male Wistar rats. Following supranigral lipopolysaccharide injection, 16-18 h previously, there was intense expression of NADPH-diaphorase and iNOS-immunoreactivity in non-neuronal, macrophage-like cells. This was accompanied by intense expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein-immunoreactive astrocytosis in the substantia nigra. There were also significant reductions in the number of tyrosine hydroxylase(50-60%)- and fluorogold (65-75%)-positive neurones in the substantia nigra. In contrast, tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactivity in the ventral tegmental area was not altered. Pre-treatment of animals with the iNOS inhibitor, S-methylisothiourea (10 mg kg(-1), i.p.), led to a significant reduction of lipopolysaccharide-induced cell death. Similar reduction of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactivity and fluorogold-labelled neurones in the substantia nigra following lipopolysaccharide administration suggests dopaminergic cell death rather than down-regulation of tyrosine hydroxylase. We conclude that the expression of iNOS- and 3-nitrotyrosine-immunoreactivity and reduction of cell death by S-methylisothiourea suggest the effects of lipopolysaccharide may be nitric oxide-mediated, although other actions of lipopolysaccharide (independent of iNOS induction) cannot be ruled out.
(+/-)3,4-Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA, &quot;ecstasy&quot;) is an increasingly popular drug of abuse that acts as a neurotoxin to forebrain serotonin neurons. The neurochemical effects of the serotonin depletion following high doses of MDMA were investigated in response to acute immobilization stress. Male rats were treated with a neurotoxic dosing regimen of MDMA (10 mg/kg, i.p. every 2 h for four injections) or equivalent doses of saline. Seven days after treatment, in vivo microdialysis was used to assess extracellular dopamine and serotonin in the dorsal hippocampus and prefrontal cortex during 1 h of immobilization stress. In saline treated control rats, serotonin in the hippocampus and serotonin and dopamine in the prefrontal cortex were increased during immobilization stress. Rats pretreated with MDMA, however, showed blunted neurotransmitter responses in the hippocampus and the prefrontal cortex. In the drug pretreated rats, basal serotonin levels in the hippocampus, but not the prefrontal cortex, were lower compared to saline pretreated controls. Stress-induced increases in plasma corticosterone and body temperature were not affected by the pretreatment condition. From these studies we suggest that depletion of serotonin stores in terminal regions with the neurotoxin MDMA compromises the ability of the serotonergic neurons to activate central systems that respond to stressful stimuli. This altered responsiveness may have implications for long-term functional consequences of MDMA abuse as well as the interactions between the serotonergic system and stress.
Several lines of evidence suggest that integrin receptors play a pivotal role in consolidation of long-term potentiation (LTP), but which of the many integrin dimers are involved remains to be discovered. The present study used an LTP reversal paradigm to test if alpha3 integrins make an important contribution. Function blocking alpha3 monoclonal antibodies or vehicle were locally infused into recording sites in field CA1 of rat hippocampal slices and LTP induced with theta burst stimulation. Low frequency trains of pulses were applied 30 min after the theta bursts. Previous work indicates that low frequency stimulation reverses LTP when applied immediately after induction but is largely ineffective after 30-45-min delays. If the antibodies were to block consolidation, then they should extend the period over which potentiation is vulnerable to disruption. There was no detectable difference between the two groups in the initial degree of LTP or within slice decay of potentiation 1-10 min after induction; a small but reliable decay occurred from 10 to 30 min with antibody treatment (P&lt;0.01) but not in control slices. Percent potentiation was not statistically different for vehicle (55 +/- 19%, mean +/- S.D.) and anti-alpha3 (43 +/- 21%) slices at 30 min post-theta bursts. Five-Hz stimulation (&quot;theta pulse&quot; stimulation) 30 min after induction caused a reduction of LTP. The percent loss of potentiation after the 1-min trains was greater in the antibody-treated slices than in controls (98 +/- 4% vs. 62 +/- 28%, P&lt;0.01, U-test) and correlated (r=0.84, alpha3 slices) with the percent LTP present prior to low frequency stimulation, as expected if the stimulation reversed potentiation. Recovery occurred in both groups but percent LTP was significantly smaller in experimental slices at 10 min post-theta pulses (5 +/- 11% vs. 36 +/- 15%, P&lt;0.01). Recovery continued for 20 min after theta pulses and, in accordance with earlier work, was nearly complete for the control slices (50 +/- 19% vs 55 +/- 15%, 40 min post- vs. immediately pre-theta pulses). LTP remained depressed after 40 min of recovery in the anti-alpha3 slices (23 +/- 19% vs. 43 +/- 21%) at which point it was substantially less than that found in controls (P&lt;0.01). Western blots with anti-alpha3 antibodies identified a polypeptide with the molecular mass (155 kDa) expected for the alpha3 subunit and further showed that it is broadly distributed in brain. Subcellular fractionation experiments demonstrated that alpha3 is concentrated in synaptic membranes over homogenates to about the same degree as the GluR1 subunit of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate-type glutamate receptor. From these results we suggest that alpha3-containing integrins are localized to synapses and are needed to stabilize a slowly decaying form of LTP. The findings also show that vulnerability to reversal can be used in place of extended recording sessions in studying consolidation.
Thyroid hormone is essential for the normal maturation and function of the mammalian CNS. Thyroid hormone deficiency during a critical period of development profoundly affects cognitive functions such as learning and memory. However, the possible electrophysiological alterations that could underlie these learning deficits in hypothyroid animals remain largely unexplored. In this work, we have studied the possible effect of thyroid hormone on short-term synaptic plasticity, which is hypothesized to be a neural substrate of short-term memory. We compared short-term modification of the excitatory postsynaptic potential in hippocampal slices between control and hypothyroid rats. Electrophysiological studies reveal that paired-pulse facilitation is strongly altered in the hypothyroid rats. In addition, hypothyroid rats exhibit an increase in the Ca(2+)-dependent neurotransmitter release. These alterations are basically reversible when thyroid hormone is administered. In order to examine the possible molecular mechanisms underlying these synaptic changes, we compared the expression of synapsin I, synaptotagmin I, syntaxin, and alpha-Ca(2+)/calmodulin kinase II between control and hypothyroid hippocampus. Our results show that the levels of synapsin I and synaptotagmin I are increased in the hypothyroid rats, which suggests that the genes encoding these proteins are implicated in the action of thyroid hormone on neurotransmitter release. Taken together, the results from this study suggest that thyroid hormone may modulate the probability of neurotransmitter release.
The mechanisms for the establishment and maintenance of cell polarity in neurons are not well understood. Axon regeneration from dendrites has been reported after axotomy near the cell body in vivo. We report here in vitro a reversal of neuronal polarity characterized by the conversion of dendrites into axons. We isolated neurons from the neonatal rat cerebral cortex. Neurons that exhibited an apical dendrite with a length of &gt;100 microm were monitored for 3 days in culture. In 66% of neurons examined, a new axon, as identified by reactivity with an antibody to dephosphorylated tau or by lack of reactivity with an antibody to the a and b isoforms of microtubule-associated protein 2, appeared to form from the tip of the original dendrite. Further analysis of such neurons revealed that the distal half of the original dendrite became positive for dephosphorylated tau or negative for microtubule-associated protein 2. Time-lapse video microscopy demonstrated the conversion of the original dendrite into an axon without dendritic retraction. Axon regeneration from dendritic tips required a significantly longer time than axon regeneration from minor processes. Our observations thus demonstrate in vitro a time-consuming reversal of neuronal polarity and the conversion of a dendritic cytoskeleton into an axonal one.
Astrocytes have been proved to play a critical role in neuromodulation, neuroprotection, pH maintenance, axon guidance control during development, homeostasis preservation and blood brain barrier maintenance in the CNS (Kimmelberg and Norenberg, 1989). Quantitative changes in the expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), a cytoskeletal intermediate filament protein exclusively expressed in astrocytes (Bignami et al, 1972), have been observed after administration of alcohol (Framke, 1995), morphine (Beitner-Johnson et al., 1993), amphetamine and its derivates (Aguirre et al., 1999), cannabinoids (Suarez et al., 2000), nicotine (Janson and Moller, 1993), caffeine (Marret et al., 1993) and prenatal exposure to cocaine (Clarke et al., 1996; Nassogne et al., 1998). However, the general astrocytic response to drugs of abuse is still far from being defined. In the present study we examined the in vivo astroglial response to cocaine in mouse dentate gyrus, the hippocampus being a common target of neurotoxic agents (Walsh and Emerich, 1988) which has a prominent effect on learning and memory processes (Eichenbaum et al., 1992). Quantitative changes in immunoreactivity of GFAP were investigated 24 h after acute and repeated daily administration of intraperitoneal cocaine (20 mg/kg). Drug-induced morphological alterations and spatial distribution of astrocytes were evaluated by means of confocal microscope. The results show that, compared to control animals, GFAP expression is two-fold enhanced after a single cocaine injection, still significantly higher after seven consecutive daily administrations, but not statistically different after prolonged (14 days) drug treatment. Moreover, morphological and morphometric analyses reveal significant modifications in astrocytic numbers, cell size and shape complexity. These data demonstrate that in mouse dentate gyrus, cocaine exposure differently affects the expression of GFAP and induces strong changes in astrocytes proliferation rate and cell morphology. Taken together, our findings provide the first in vivo quantitative and qualitative evaluation of astrocytic response to several regimens of cocaine in adult animals brain.
Axonal injury to CNS neurons results in apoptotic cell death. The processes by which axotomy signals apoptosis are diverse, and may include deprivation of target-derived factors, induction of injury factors, bursts of reactive oxygen species (ROS), and other mechanisms. Our previous studies demonstrated that death of a dissociated retinal ganglion cell, an identified CNS neuron, is ROS-dependent. To better define the mechanisms by which ROS induce retinal ganglion cell death after axotomy, we studied their effects in dissociated neonatal rat retinal cultures. Postnatal day 2-4 Long-Evans rat retinal ganglion cells were retrogradely labeled with the fluorescent tracer 1,1'-dioctadecyl-3,3,3',3'-tetramethylindocarbocyanine (DiI). Postnatal day 7-9 retinas were dissociated and cultured in the presence of specific ROS generating systems, scavengers, or redox modulators. Retinal ganglion cells were identified by DiI positivity and viability determined by metabolism of calcein-acetoxymethyl ester. We found that ROS scavengers protected against retinal ganglion cell death after acute dissociation, and the effects of ROS appeared to be due to shifts in the redox potential, as retinal ganglion cell survival was critically dependent on redox state, with greatest survival under mildly reducing conditions. Culture of retinal ganglion cell with the non-thiol-containing reducing agent tris(carboxyethyl)phosphine resulted in long-term survival equivalent to or better than with neurotrophic factors. Our data suggest that axotomy-associated neuronal death induced by acute dissociation may be partly dependent on ROS production, acting to shift the redox state and oxidize one or more key thiols. Understanding the mechanisms by which ROS signal neuronal death could result in strategies for increasing their long-term survival after axonal injury.
Opioid antinociception appears to be mediated at least in part by a pathway that projects from the periaqueductal gray (PAG) to the rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM), but the relationship between opioid receptors and PAG-RVM projection neurons is unclear. Previous electrophysiological studies have suggested that opioids act directly on some PAG neurons projecting to the RVM. However, immunoreactivity for neither the cloned mu-opioid receptor (MOR1) nor the cloned delta-opioid receptor (DOR1) has been observed in PAG cells retrogradely labeled from the RVM. In the present study, we examined the expression of DOR1 and MOR1 mRNAs in PAG neurons projecting to RVM using quantitative in situ hybridization and retrograde tract-tracing. Mesencephalic neurons were labeled in three male Sprague-Dawley rats by microinjection of Fluoro-Gold into the RVM. Five micrometer cryostat sections were cut and in situ hybridization was performed using full-length cRNA probes labeled with 35S-UTP. Retrogradely labeled neurons that were also labeled for MOR1 or DOR1 mRNA were observed in the dorsomedial, lateral, and ventrolateral portions of the PAG. Quantification was performed in the dorsomedial and ventrolateral PAG using the physical disector. We found that of 219 retrogradely labeled neurons, 50 +/- 14% expressed DOR1 mRNA. In a second set of 120 Fluoro-Gold-labeled neurons, 27 +/- 8% expressed MOR1 mRNA. Significantly more PAG-RVM projection neurons were labeled for MOR1 mRNA in the ventrolateral subregion of the PAG than in the dorsomedial subregion. However, no significant difference was observed in the proportions of retrogradely labeled neurons labeled for DOR1 mRNA in the ventrolateral subregion compared to the dorsomedial subregion. We conclude that opioids are likely to exert direct effects on PAG-RVM projection neurons through both delta- and mu-opioid receptors. In addition, direct effects on PAG-RVM projection neurons from activation of MOR1 appear more likely to be exerted in the ventrolateral PAG than in the dorsomedial PAG.
The mechanism of action of conventional antidepressants (e.g. imipramine) has been linked to modulation of central monoamine systems. Substance P (NK1) receptor antagonists may have antidepressant and anxiolytic effects in patients with major depressive disorder and high anxiety but, unlike conventional antidepressants, are independent of activity at monoamine reuptake sites, transporters, receptors, or monoamine oxidase. To investigate the possibility that substance P receptor antagonists influence central monoamine systems indirectly, we have compared the effects of chronic administration of imipramine with that of the substance P receptor antagonist L-760735 on the spontaneous firing activity of locus coeruleus neurones. Electrophysiological recordings were made from brain slices prepared from guinea-pigs that had been dosed orally every day for 4 weeks with either L-760735 (3 mg/kg), imipramine (10 mg/kg), or vehicle (water), or naive animals. Chronic, but not acute, treatment with the substance P receptor antagonist L-760735, induced burst firing of neurones in the locus coeruleus. This effect resembles that of the conventional antidepressant imipramine. However, their effects are dissociable since, in contrast to chronic imipramine treatment, chronic L-760735 treatment does not cause functional desensitisation of somatic alpha2 adrenoceptors. The mechanism by which chronic substance P receptor antagonist or conventional antidepressant treatment influences the pattern of firing activity of norepinephrine neurones remains to be elucidated. However, an indirect action in the periphery or distant brain nuclei has been excluded by the use of the in vitro slice preparation, suggesting a local site of action in the locus coeruleus.
Injections of formalin into the rodent paw elicit a rapid orientation of the head and mouth to the source of discomfort, followed by licking and biting the injected area. Previous work has shown this response is dependent on the integrity of the midbrain superior colliculus. The present experiments were initiated to examine the ontogeny of this oral nocifensive reaction and to determine whether it is correlated with the functional maturation of collicular responses to noxious stimuli (as indicated by c-fos immunohistochemistry). Rat pups at various postnatal ages received formalin injections in either the hindpaw or perioral regions. Behaviour was videotaped, and after 120 min, animals were killed and the brain and spinal cord processed for Fos-like immunoreactivity. Uninjected controls were treated identically. Formalin-induced oral responses following injections into the hindpaw and the expression of Fos in the superior colliculus were virtually absent until 10 days postnatal, despite the presence of Fos-like immunoreactivity in many other structures (e.g. spinal cord, parabrachial area, periaqueductal grey). In contrast, animals from day 1 were able to use limbs to localise the perioral injection site. From day 10 onward, there was a progressive increase in oral nocifensive behaviours and Fos expression in the superior colliculus. Our observations are consistent with the hypothesis that the normal elaboration of pain-induced oral behaviour is initiated only after a functionally active superior colliculus has developed, and support previous observations that link the colliculus particularly with oral nocifensive behaviours.
The activity of dopamine neurons in the ventral tegmental area is modulated by excitatory (glutamatergic) and inhibitory (GABAergic) afferents. GABA, released by intrinsic neurons and by projection neurons originating in the nucleus accumbens and other regions, inhibits dopamine neurons via activation of GABA(A) and GABA(B) receptor subtypes. Using in vivo microdialysis in freely moving rats, we investigated the role of ventral tegmental area GABA(B) receptors in modulating levels of dopamine and glutamate within the ventral tegmental area, both in naive rats and in rats treated repeatedly with saline or amphetamine (5 mg/kg i.p., for 5 days). In naive rats, administration of a potent and selective GABA(B) receptor antagonist (CGP 55845A) into the ventral tegmental area elicited a concentration-dependent increase in dopamine levels, but did not alter glutamate levels. In rats tested 3 days after discontinuing repeated amphetamine administration, 50 microM CGP 55845A increased dopamine levels to a greater extent than in saline controls. This difference was no longer present in rats tested 10-14 days after discontinuing repeated amphetamine injections. CGP 55845A (50 microM) had no effect on glutamate levels in the ventral tegmental area of saline-treated rats. However, it produced a robust increase in glutamate levels in rats tested 3 days, but not 10-14 days, after discontinuing repeated amphetamine injections. These results suggest that somatodendritic dopamine release is normally under strong tonic inhibitory control by GABA(B) receptors. Repeated amphetamine administration enhances GABA(B) receptor transmission in the ventral tegmental area during the early withdrawal period, increasing inhibitory tone on both dopamine and glutamate levels. This is the first demonstration, in an intact animal, that drugs of abuse alter GABA(B) receptor transmission in the ventral tegmental area.
The effects of dehydroepiandrosterone, estradiol and testosterone on 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridium (MPP+)-induced neurotoxicity of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system were examined in rat. They were subjected to a unilateral intrastriatal infusion of the following treatment conditions: MPP+ alone or co-injection of MPP+ plus each hormone. Four days after injection, concentrations of dopamine and their metabolites were determined from the corpus striatum. To corroborate the neurochemical data an immunohistochemical analysis of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive fibers and acetylcholinesterase histochemistry in the striatum was performed. Moreover, we performed a dose-response study of the three hormones on the high-affinity dopamine transport system in rat striatal synaptosomes. Rats co-injected within the striatum with MPP+ and either dehydroepiandrosterone or estradiol had significantly greater concentrations of dopamine and less tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive fibers and acetylcholinesterase fiber density loss compared with their respective controls. In addition, 4 days after injection, the brain was fixed and cut into coronal sections, and was immunostained with major histocompatibility complex class II antigens for activated microglia, and glial fibrillary acidic protein for activated astrocytes. Dehydroepiandrosterone also attenuated microglial cell activation. In contrast, testosterone showed reductions in dopamine concentrations similar to those obtained by MPP+. The protective effect of dehydroepiandrosterone against the MPP+ neurotoxic dopaminergic system may be produced by its partial prevention of MPP+ inhibition of NADH oxidase activity, whereas the estradiol may function as a neuroprotectant by reducing the uptake of MPP+ into dopaminergic neurons. Our findings we suggest indicate that dehydroepiandrosterone and estradiol by a non-genomic effect may have an important modulatory action, capable of attenuating degeneration within the striatum, and in this way serve as neuroprotectants of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system.
Somatostatin is synthesized and released by aspiny interneurons of the neostriatum. This work investigates the actions of somatostatin on rat neostriatal neurons of medium size (ca. 6 pF). Somatostatin (1 microM) reduces both calcium action potentials (20 mM tetraethylammonium) by ca. 24% and calcium currents by ca. 35%, in all cells tested. This action was produced in the presence of tetrodotoxin and in dissociated cells and was blocked by cyclo(-7-aminoheptanoyl-phe-d-try-lys-O-benzyl-thr) acetate (CPP-1), a somatostatin receptor antagonist. Except for nitrendipine (5 microM), several calcium channel antagonists, 1 microM omega-conotoxin GVIA, 400 nM omega-agatoxin TK, and 1 microM omega-conotoxin MVIIC, partially occluded somatostatin action. According to the calcium channel types known to be blocked by these antagonists, P/Q-type channels appeared to be the channels mainly modulated by somatostatin, followed by N-type channels. Since these channel types generate the afterhyperpolarizing potential in spiny neurons, we investigated the action of somatostatin on this event. Somatostatin reduces the amplitude of the afterhyperpolarizing potential by ca. 39%. This action is occluded by omega-agatoxin TK and omega-conotoxin MVIIC but not by omega-conotoxin GVIA or nicardipine. Thus, the action of somatostatin on the afterhyperpolarizing potential is mainly mediated by P/Q-type calcium channels. The block of the slow afterhyperpolarizing potential made most neurons exhibit an irregular firing mode, suggesting that ion currents other than calcium may also be affected by somatostatin. We conclude that somatostatin exerts a direct postsynaptic effect on neostriatal neurons via the activation of somatostatin receptors. This action affects non-L-type calcium channels and therefore modifies the afterhyperpolarizing potential and the firing pattern. It is proposed that somatostatin and its analogues may have profound effects on the motor functions controlled by the basal ganglia.
Fetal hippocampal CA3 cells show excellent survival when homotopically grafted into the kainic acid-lesioned CA3 region of the young adult hippocampus, a model of temporal lobe epilepsy. However, survival of these cells in the kainic acid-lesioned CA3 region of the aging hippocampus is unknown. We hypothesize that fetal CA3 grafts into the lesioned CA3 region of the middle-aged and aged hippocampus exhibit significantly diminished cell survival compared with similar grafts in the lesioned young adult hippocampus unless pre-treated and transplanted with factors that augment graft cell survival. We analyzed cell survival of 5'-bromodeoxyuridine-labeled embryonic day 19 CA3 grafts following their transplantation into the lesioned CA3 region of the middle-aged and aged rat hippocampus. Grafts were placed 4 days after an i.c.v. administration of kainic acid, and absolute cell survival of grafts was quantified 1 month after grafting using 5'-bromodeoxyuridine immunostaining of serial sections and the optical fractionator counting method. Grafts into both middle-aged and aged hippocampus exhibited analogous but significantly diminished cell survival (30% of injected cells) compared with similar grafts into the young adult hippocampus (72% cell survival). However, the extent of cell survival of CA3 grafts pre-treated and transplanted with a combination of neurotrophic factors brain-derived neurotrophic factor and neurotrophin-3 and the caspase inhibitor acetyl-tyrosinyl-valyl-alanyl-aspartyl-chloro-methylketone was significantly enhanced in both middle-aged and aged hippocampus (51-63% cell survival). These results underscore that aging impairs the conduciveness of the CA3 region for robust survival of homotopic fetal CA3 grafts after lesion. However, a combined neurotrophic supplementation and caspase inhibition significantly enhances survival of fetal CA3 cells in the lesioned aging hippocampus. Thus, pre-treatment and grafting of donor cells with a combination of factors that support growth of specific donor cells may considerably enhance survival and integration of fetal grafts into the lesioned aging CNS in clinical trials.
The mechanisms by which long-term changes in synaptic efficacy (e.g., long-term potentiation) are maintained are not well understood. There is evidence that reorganization of the neuronal actin cytoskeleton is important for consolidation of long-term potentiation. In non-neuronal cells, phosphoinositide 3-kinase and p70 S6 kinase have been shown to regulate actin polymerization. We have investigated the subcellular localization of these enzymes in cultured hippocampal pyramidal neurons and their possible role in hippocampal long-term potentiation. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed enrichment of both enzymes in the growth cones and filopodia of extending neurites, whereas p70 S6 kinase was also present at the soma. Antibodies to the phosphorylated form of p70 S6 kinase confirmed its activity in these locations. Interestingly, both enzymes displayed strong colocalization with F-actin in discrete regions of developing neurites. In hippocampal slices, the maintenance of long-term potentiation was attenuated by either rapamycin or 2-(4-morpholinyl)-8-phenyl-1(4H)-1-benzopyran-4-one, inhibitors of p70 S6 kinase and phosphoinositide 3-kinase, respectively. Our findings provide evidence for a novel biochemical pathway involving phosphoinositide 3-kinase and p70 S6 kinase that is important for the maintenance of hippocampal long-term potentiation, possibly via regulation of actin dynamics.
In vivo fluctuations in gonadal hormones alter hippocampal excitability and modulate both physiological and pathological hippocampal processes. To assess hormonal effects on excitability within a functional hippocampal circuit, extracellular CA1 field responses were compared in slices from intact male, intact female, orchidectomized male, and ovariectomized female rats. Secondly, the effects of in vitro applications of 17-beta estradiol, progesterone, or testosterone on baseline excitability of slices from gonadectomized rats were assessed versus pre-hormone baseline measures. Finally, using the in vitro kindling model of slice epileptogenesis, steroid hormone effects on interictal-like activity were also examined. Significant sex differences in excitatory postsynaptic potential amplitude were observed, with slices from males having larger excitatory postsynaptic potential amplitudes than those from females. Gonadectomy significantly decreased excitatory postsynaptic potential amplitude in slices from male rats. Slices from gonadectomized male and female rats also showed a decreased dendritic excitatory postsynaptic potential slope relative to slices from intact male and females rats. In vitro application of testosterone significantly increased excitatory postsynaptic potential amplitudes in slices from both orchidectomized males and ovariectomized females and the population spike amplitude of slices from ovariectomized females. Following in vitro kindling, slices from intact males showed greater spontaneous burst rates than slices from intact females, further suggesting an excitatory effect of testosterone. These results suggest: (1) a sex difference in the level of baseline excitability between slices from intact males and females as measured by excitatory postsynaptic potential amplitudes, (2) testosterone has excitatory effects on baseline physiology and kindled hippocampal responses, and (3) slices from males show a greater level of excitability than those from females in the in vitro kindling model.
The behavioral sensitization produced by the repeated administration of D-amphetamine is known to involve dopaminergic neurons in the mesoaccumbens pathway. Induction of this process is dependent on action of the drug in the ventral tegmental area while its expression involves action in the nucleus accumbens. We studied here the putative involvement of dopaminergic projections other than the mesoaccumbens in this phenomenon. We examined the influence of dopaminergic lesion of the medial prefrontal cortex, the amygdala and the entorhinal cortex in the behavioral sensitization produced by repeated injections of amphetamine either peripherally or directly into the ventral tegmental area of the brain. The repeated administration of amphetamine induced a behavioral sensitization, with the ventral tegmental area a critical site for induction of the process. This sensitization to amphetamine cross-reacted with morphine and was still observed 2 weeks after cessation of the treatment. Bilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesion of dopaminergic terminals in either the medial prefrontal cortex or the amygdala, but not in the entorhinal cortex, prevented the development of behavioral sensitization to amphetamine and the cross-sensitization with morphine, whether the amphetamine pretreatment was administered peripherally or directly into the ventral tegmental area. In conclusion, these results indicated that behavioral sensitization to amphetamine, which involves dopaminergic neurons of the ventral tegmental area, is also dependent on dopaminergic neurotransmission of the medial prefrontal cortex and amygdala but not of the entorhinal cortex.
The aging brain is characterized by selective neurochemical changes involving several neural populations. A deficit in the cholinergic system of the basal forebrain is thought to contribute to the development of cognitive symptoms of dementia. Attempts to prevent age-associated cholinergic vulnerability and deterioration therefore represent a crucial point for pharmacotherapy in the elderly. In this paper we provide evidence for the protective effect of nicergoline (Sermion) on the degeneration of cholinergic neurons induced by nerve growth factor deprivation. Nerve growth factor deprivation was induced by colchicine administration in rats 13 and 18 months old. Colchicine induces a rapid and substantial down-regulation of choline acetyltransferase messenger RNA level in the basal forebrain in untreated adult, middle-aged and old rats. Colchicine failed to cause these effects in old rats treated for 120 days with nicergoline 10 mg/kg/day, orally. Moreover, a concomitant increase of both nerve growth factor and brain-derived neurotrophic factor content was measured in the basal forebrain of old, nicergoline-treated rats. Additionally, the level of messenger RNA for the brain isoform of nitric oxide synthase in neurons of the basal forebrain was also increased in these animals. Based on the present findings, nicergoline proved to be an effective drug for preventing neuronal vulnerability due to experimentally induced nerve growth factor deprivation.
Androgens are known to affect cognitive and mnemonic aspects of spatial processing. The cholinergic system is thought to play an important role in cognition and memory, but little is known about the interaction between androgen and cholinergic neurons. The present study focused on the effects of testosterone on the cholinergic neurons in the anterior cingulate cortex, the posterior parietal cortex, the hippocampus, and the basal forebrain including the medial septum, i.e., regions related to spatial processing. We examined choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) immunoreactivity in three groups of adult male rats: sham-operated (Sham), 28-day gonadectomized (GDX), and 28-day gonadectomized with immediate implantation of testosterone propionate (GDX+TP). Comparison of the Sham and GDX+TP groups demonstrated that the GDX group had significantly decreased cell counts of ChAT-immunoreactive neurons in anterior cingulate cortex layer II/III, posterior parietal cortex layer II/III, and the medial septum, but not in the other basal forebrain subregions examined (the horizontal part of the diagonal band of Broca and the substantia innominata). The GDX group also had significantly reduced hippocampal ChAT-immunoreactive fiber pixel density. The GDX+TP group maintained ChAT-immunoreactive cell counts in the anterior cingulate cortex, posterior parietal cortex, and medial septum equivalent to those in the Sham group. Less than 1% of identified cells showed colocalization of immunoreactivity for ChAT and androgen receptor in the cell bodies of the cortex and basal forebrain. Our observations demonstrate that the presence or absence of testosterone for 4 weeks influenced the cholinergic population region-specifically in the adult rat brain.
Subpopulations of cortical pyramidal neurons have been distinguished based on the projection target of their principal axons or by their dendritic morphology. In this study, we sought to test the hypothesis that pyramidal neurons in monkey prefrontal cortex that furnish callosal or ipsilateral projections have distinctive dendritic morphologies. Retrogradely-labeled, Fast Blue-containing callosal and ipsilateral neurons were intracellularly filled with Lucifer Yellow, immunoconverted, and reconstructed. Quantitative measurements of the size and complexity of the dendritic arbor, including total dendritic length, horizontal extent, number of branch points, maximum branch order, and number of segments, as well as spine density, were made. In general, callosal neurons had larger and more complex dendritic arbors for both apical and basilar dendritic trees than did ipsilateral neurons. The greatest difference was in total dendritic length; the apical and basilar trees of callosal neurons were 34 and 25% longer, respectively. In addition, spine density was also significantly greater on the apical and basilar dendrites of callosal neurons. These findings could not be explained by differences in somal size or completeness of dendritic filling between callosal and ipsilateral neurons. Our observations support the hypothesis that callosal and ipsilateral neurons differ on a number of measures of dendritic size and complexity. Furthermore, these findings imply that these two subpopulations of pyramidal cells differ in the number and perhaps types of excitatory inputs that they receive. Finally, differences in the dendritic morphology of callosal and ipsilateral neurons have implications for understanding the functional attributes of these two populations of cells, as well as for the characterization of pyramidal neurons in human disease states.
The cannabinoid receptor type 1 (CB1) displays unusual properties, including the dual capacity to inhibit or stimulate adenylate cyclase and a brain density considerably higher than the majority of G protein-coupled receptors. Together with overlapping expression patterns of dopamine and serotonin receptors this suggests a potential of CB1 to modulate the function of the dopamine and serotonin system. Indeed, pharmacological studies provide evidence for cross-talks between CB1 and receptors of these neurotransmitter systems. In trying to obtain further insights into possible functional and/or structural interactions between CB1 and the dopamine receptors and the serotonin receptors, we performed double-label in situ hybridization at the cellular level on mouse forebrain sections by combining a digoxigenin-labelled riboprobe for CB1 with 35S-labelled riboprobes for dopamine receptors D1 and D2, and for serotonin receptors 5-HT1B and 5-HT3, respectively. As a general rule, we found that CB1 colocalizes with D1, D2 and 5-HT1B only in low-CB1-expressing cells which are principal projecting neurons, whereas CB1 coexpression with 5-HT3 was also observed in high-CB1-expressing cells which are considered to be mostly GABAergic. In striatum and olfactory tubercle, CB1 is coexpressed to a high extent with D1, D2 and 5-HT1B. Throughout the hippocampal formation, CB1 is coexpressed with D2, 5-HT1B and 5-HT3. In the neocortex, coexpression was detected only with 5-HT1B and 5-HT3. In summary a distinct pattern is emerging for the cannabinoid system with regard to its colocalization with dopamine and serotonin receptors and, therefore, it is likely that different mechanisms underlie its cross-talk with these neurotransmitter systems.
A mouse model of Niemann-Pick type C disease has been found that exhibits neuropathology similar to the human condition. There is an age-related neurodegeneration in several brain regions and a lack of myelin in the corpus callosum in these mice. The purpose of the present study was to examine the Niemann-Pick mouse and determine whether: (1) microglia and astrocytes exhibit ultrastructural pathology similar to that found in neurons; (2) nerve fiber number is reduced when the myelin sheath is absent; and (3) the lysosomal hydrolase, cathepsin-D, is involved in the neurodegenerative process. Using light and electron microscopic methods, and immunocytochemistry, Niemann-Pick and control animals were examined at several ages. Cathepsin-D content was semi-quantitatively measured in neurons and glial cells in brain regions known to exhibit neurodegeneration, as was the density of glial fibrillary acidic protein-labeled astrocytes. The Niemann-Pick mouse exhibited: (1) an age-related increase in inclusion bodies in microglia and astrocytes, similar to that observed within neurons; (2) an almost complete absence of myelin in the corpus callosum by 7-8 weeks of age, along with a 30% reduction in the number of corpus callosum axons; (3) a mild age-related increase in cathepsin-D content within nerve cells in many brain regions. However, the cathepsin-D elevation was greatest in microglial cells; (4) an age-related increase in the number of microglial cells containing intense cathepsin-D immunoreactivity in both the thalamus and cerebellum. Both of these brain regions have been shown previously to exhibit an age-related loss of neurons; and (5) an increase in the number of reactive astrocytes immunostained for glial fibrillary acidic protein, especially in the thalamus and cerebellum. These data indicate that glial cells are a major target for pathology in the Niemann-Pick mouse. The lack of myelin within the corpus callosum may be related to the loss of nerve fibers in this structure. The increase in cathepsin-D-laden microglial cells, in brain regions previously shown to undergo neurodegeneration, is consistent with a role for microglia in the phagocytosis of dead neurons and in actively contributing to the neurodegenerative process. The activation of astrocytes in regions that undergo neurodegeneration is also consistent with a role for these glial cells in the neurodegenerative process.
Arrestins are adaptor proteins involved in homologous desensitization and trafficking of G protein-coupled receptors. Arrestins bind to activated phosphorylated receptors thus precluding further signal transduction. Two subtypes of non-visual arrestins, arrestin2 and arrestin3, have been cloned. Recently, specificity of various receptors to arrestins and differences in kinetics of receptor desensitization mediated by arrestins have been demonstrated. Both arrestins are expressed in the rat brain. However, quantitative assessment of their expression and detailed distribution are lacking. Here, we used quantitative ribonuclease protection assay and western blot to measure arrestin2 and arrestin3 mRNA and protein in the rat brain during postnatal development. In situ hybridization histochemistry was employed to study the detailed distribution of arrestin mRNAs in the adult and developing brain. Both arrestins were expressed from birth in all regions studied. Arrestin2 mRNA levels increased with development until the 14th postnatal day and then decreased, whereas arrestin2 protein levels continued to rise. Arrestin3 mRNA was maximal in neonates and then decreased, while arrestin3 protein changed little. In newborns and adults, the concentration of arrestin2 mRNA was two- to three-fold higher than that of arrestin3. In neonates, the excess of the arrestin2 protein over arrestin3 was commensurate with the excess of the arrestin2 mRNA (three-fold) but in the adult, the ratio was much higher (10-20-fold). Each arrestin demonstrated a unique distribution, although in many areas there was overlap suggesting co-localization. Both arrestins were highly expressed in the cortex and hippocampus. Arrestin2 was abundant in the thalamus, particularly in the anterior, intralaminar, and midline nuclei, while arrestin3 was abundant in the medial habenular. Arrestin3 was relatively abundant in most hypothalamic nuclei and extended amygdala. In the developing brain, arrestin3 was highly expressed in the subventricular zone, whereas arrestin2 was more abundant in differentiated areas. Our data demonstrate that arrestin2 is the major arrestin subtype in the rat brain, although arrestin3 is expressed in specific cell populations including postnatal proliferative zones. Because each arrestin appears to mediate receptor desensitization in a specific way, different kinetics of trafficking of the same receptor should be expected in different cells due to varying arrestin2/arrestin3 ratios. Thus, the response of receptors to specific drugs stimulating or blocking these receptors may depend on complement of arrestins in their target cells.
We observed the onset time and distribution pattern of beta2 isoform of Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase I (CaMKIbeta2) in the CNS of the rat during the embryonic period until birth using an immunohistochemical method. The expression of CaMKIbeta2 started at embryological day 10 when the three primary brain vesicles and neural tube are generated from the neural plate. During the embryonic period, highly immunoreactive products were ubiquitously detected in neurons in the CNS, although neurons in the caudate-putamen and globus pallidus were faintly immunostained or immunonegative. High expression of CaMKIbeta2 persisted in the olfactory bulb, lymbic system, neocortex, septal nuclei, amygdala complex, some hypothalamic nuclei, pontine nuclei, Purkinje cells and granule cells in the cerebellar cortex through the developing period. At the subcellular level, CaMKIbeta2 was strongly expressed in nuclei of neurons but faintly in their cytoplasm, suggesting that this protein has an important role in the nuclear signaling pathway. This study demonstrates that expression of CaMKIbeta2 begins at the earliest developmental stage of the rat CNS and persists through the developing period.
Several neurophysiological and computational theories of the rodent navigational system suggest that the differing cortices of the frontal lobe and thalamus share information and therefore undergo changes in synaptic strength. We examine here for the first time three forms of synaptic plasticity in the projection from the anterior thalamic nuclei to the anterior cingulate cortex: we demonstrate that this projection is capable of expressing paired-pulse facilitation, long-term potentiation, and short-term depression. Furthermore, input/output curves show that field excitatory post-synaptic potential amplitude increased at all stimulus intensities following high-frequency stimulation. These findings add important information to our understanding of synaptic plasticity in this important pathway, which has been widely hypothesized to play important roles in memory and spatial representation in the rodent.
In rats, intradermal or intraarticular injection of glutamate or selective excitatory amino acid receptor agonists acting at peripheral excitatory amino acid receptors can decrease the intensity of mechanical stimulation required to evoke nocifensive behaviors, an indication of hyperalgesia. Since excitatory amino acid receptors have been found on the terminal ends of cutaneous primary afferent fibers, it has been suggested that increased tissue glutamate levels may have a direct sensitizing effect on primary afferent fibers, in particular skin nociceptors. However, less is known about the effects of glutamate on deep tissue afferent fibers. In the present study, a series of experiments were undertaken to investigate the effect of intramuscular injection of glutamate on the excitability and mechanical threshold of masseter muscle afferent fibers in anesthetized rats of both sexes. Injection of 1.0 M, but not 0.1 M glutamate evoked masseter muscle afferent activity that was significantly greater than that evoked by isotonic saline. The mechanical threshold of masseter muscle afferent fibers, which was assessed with a Von Frey hair, was reduced by approximately 50% for a period of 30 min after injection of 1.0 M glutamate, but was unaffected by injections of 0.1 M glutamate or isotonic saline. Injection of 25% dextrose, which has the same osmotic strength as 1.0 M glutamate, did not evoke significant activity in or decrease the mechanical threshold of masseter muscle afferent fibers. Magnetic resonance imaging experiments confirmed that injection of 25% dextrose and 1.0 M glutamate produced similar edema volumes in the masseter muscle tissue. Co-injection of 0.1 M kynurenate, an excitatory amino acid receptor antagonist, and 1.0 M glutamate attenuated glutamate-evoked afferent activity and prevented glutamate-induced mechanical sensitization. When male and female rats were compared, no difference in the baseline mechanical threshold or in the magnitude of glutamate-induced mechanical sensitization of masseter muscle afferent fibers was observed; however, the afferent fiber activity evoked by injection of 1.0 M glutamate into the masseter muscle was greater in female rats. The results of the present experiments show that intramuscular injection of 1.0 M glutamate excites and sensitizes rat masseter muscle afferent fibers through activation of peripheral excitatory amino acid receptors and that glutamate-evoked afferent fiber activity, but not sensitization, is greater in female than male rats.
Annexins and S100 proteins constitute two multigenic families of Ca2+-modulated proteins that have been implicated in the regulation of both intracellular and extracellular activities. Some annexins can interact with certain S100 protein dimers thereby forming heterotetramers in which an S100 dimer crosslinks two copies of the partner annexin. It is suggested that S100 protein binding to an annexin might serve the function of regulating annexin function and annexin binding to an S100 protein might regulate S100 function. In the present study, annexin V, annexin VI (or ANXA5 and ANXA6, respectively, according to a novel nomenclature), S100A1 and S100B were analyzed for their subcellular localization in developing and adult avian skeletal muscles by confocal laser scanning microscopy, immunogold cytochemistry, and western blotting, and for their ability to form annexin-S100 heterocomplex in vivo by immunoprecipitation. These four proteins displayed distinct expression patterns, ANXA5 being the first to be expressed in myotubes (i.e. at embryonic day 8), followed by ANXA6 (at embryonic day 12) and S100A1 and S100B (between embryonic day 12 and embryonic day 15). The two annexins and the two S100 proteins were found associated to different extents with the sarcolemma, membranes of the sarcoplasmic reticulum, and putative transverse tubules where they appeared to be co-localized from embryonic day 18 onwards. No one of these proteins was found associated with the contractile apparatus of the sarcomeres. Immunoprecipitation studies indicated that ANXA6/S100A1 and ANXA6/S100B complexes formed in vivo. Whereas, ANXA5 was not recovered in S100A1 or S100B immunoprecipitates. From our data we suggest that: (i) ANXA5 and ANXA6, and S100A1 and S100B can be used as markers of skeletal muscle development; (ii) ANXA6 and S100A1 and S100B appear strategically located close to or on skeletal muscle membrane organelles that are critically involved in the regulation of Ca2+ fluxes, thus supporting previous in vitro observations implicating S100A1 and ANXA6 in the stimulation of Ca2+-induced Ca2+ release; and (iii) ANXA6/S100A1 and ANXA6/S100B complexes can form in vivo thereby regulating each other activities and/or acting in concert to regulate membrane-associated activities.
In order to study biological properties of the corticospinal tract, we have reconstructed this system in an in vitro slice culture preparation. Motor cortex and spinal cord slices, prepared from newborn rats, were co-cultured on pored membranes for 16-24 days. Anterograde labeling with biocytin showed that substantial neural connections had formed between the cortex and spinal cord slices. Retrograde labeling with horseradish peroxidase or 1,1'-dioctadecyl-3,3,3',3'-tetramethylindocarbocyanine perchlorate demonstrated that the parent cells were located primarily in the deeper layer of the cortex, as is found in vivo. Stimulation of the deep layer of the cortex elicited extracellular postsynaptic responses and intracellular excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) in the co-cultured spinal cord that were mediated by the 1-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate/ kainate-type glutamate receptor. The intracellular injection of biocytin after EPSPs were recorded showed that one-third of these cells were large stellate cells, which are thought to be motoneurons, while a large portion of the remaining labeled cells were bipolar cells of smaller sizes. Using this reconstructed in vitro preparation, we recorded field EPSPs (fEPSPs) along a 100-microm-interval lattice in the spinal gray matter, which allowed the quantitative evaluation of synapse formation. The fEPSP amplitudes were more than two-fold larger when the forelimb cortex was co-cultured with cervical cord rather than lumbar cord. However, hindlimb cortex did not show this preference. The fEPSP amplitudes were more than twice as large when the dorsal side of the spinal cord was adjacent to the cortex than the ventral side. In summary, we have reconstructed the corticospinal projection and synapses in vitro using cortical and spinal explants. This system allows for an efficient quantitative evaluation of synapse formation and for studies of postsynaptic cells. Our results suggest that synapse formation shows preferences along and perpendicular to the neuraxis of the spinal cord.
Although intrathecal administration of nociceptin, an endogenous ligand of the opioid receptor-like1 receptor, exhibits an antinociceptive effect in various pain models, cellular mechanisms underlying this action are still unknown. Here, we investigated the effects of nociceptin on excitatory and inhibitory synaptic transmission to substantia gelatinosa neurones of an adult rat spinal cord slice with an attached dorsal root by use of the blind whole-cell patch-clamp technique; this was done under the condition of a blockade of a hyperpolarising effect of nociceptin. In about 70% of the neurones examined, nociceptin (1 microM) reduced the amplitude of glutamatergic excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) which were monosynaptically evoked by stimulating Adelta- or C-afferent fibres; the inhibition of C-fibre EPSCs (50+/-6%, n=11) was larger than that of Adelta-fibre EPSCs (30+/-5%, n=23; P&lt;0.05). Each of the nociceptin actions was dose-dependent in a concentration range of 0.1 to 1 microM, and was largely suppressed by a selective opioid receptor-like1 receptor antagonist, 1-[(3R,4R)-1-cyclooctylmethyl-3-hydroxymethyl-4-piperidyl]-3-ethyl-1,3-dihydro-2H-benzimidazol-2-one (3 microM). Nociceptin (1 microM) also decreased miniature EPSCs frequency by 22+/-6% (n=7) while not affecting their amplitude. Responses of substantia gelatinosa neurones to bath-applied alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate (10 microM) were not changed by nociceptin. Both electrically evoked and miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents, mediated by either the GABA(A) or glycine receptor, were unaffected by nociceptin. These results indicate that nociceptin suppresses excitatory but not inhibitory synaptic transmission to substantia gelatinosa neurones through the activation of the opioid receptor-like1 receptor; this action is pre-synaptic in origin. Considering that the substantia gelatinosa is the main part of termination of Adelta- and C-fibres transmitting nociceptive information, the present finding would account for at least a part of the inhibitory action of nociceptin on pain transmission. Nociceptin could inhibit more potently slow-conducting than fast-conducting pain transmission.
There is evidence for interactions between leptin and cholecystokinin in controlling food intake. Since cholecystokinin acts on vagal afferent neurones, we asked whether the leptin receptor was also expressed by these neurones. Primers for different forms of the leptin receptor were used in reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) of rat and human nodose ganglia. RT-PCR yielded products corresponding to the long (functional) form as well as short forms of the rat leptin receptor. Moreover, RT-PCR revealed the long form of the leptin receptor in a human nodose ganglion. The identities of RT-PCR products were confirmed by sequencing. Primers corresponding to leptin itself did not give RT-PCR products in nodose ganglia. Immunocytochemical studies revealed leptin-receptor immunoreactivity in neuronal cell bodies. Many neurones co-expressed the leptin and cholecystokinin type A receptors, or leptin receptor and cocaine- and amphetamine-related transcript. We conclude that vagal afferent neurones that express the cholecystokinin type A receptor and cocaine- and amphetamine-related transcript, may also express the long form of the leptin receptor providing a neurochemical basis for observations of interactions between cholecystokinin and leptin.
As neurones develop they are faced with choices as to which genes to express, to match their final phenotype to their role in the nervous system. A number of processes can guide these decisions. Within the autonomic and sensory nervous systems, there are a handful of examples that suggest that one mechanism that may match phenotype to function is the presence of target-derived differentiation factors. We tested whether the rat pineal gland controls the expression of a neuropeptide (neuropeptide Y) and a calcium-binding protein (calbindin) in sympathetic postganglionic neurones that innervate it. We first showed that the chemical phenotype of sympathetic neurones innervating the rat pineal includes the expression of both neuropeptide Y and the calcium-binding protein, calbindin. After transplanting the pineal gland of neonatal rats into the submandibular salivary gland of neonatal hosts, it was innervated by sympathetic axons from the surrounding salivary gland tissue, which do not normally express neuropeptide Y and calbindin. The presence of the pineal gland led to the appearance of neuropeptide Y and calbindin in many of the postganglionic neurones that innervated the graft. From these findings we suggest that, like the rodent sweat gland, the pineal gland generates a signal that can direct the neurochemical phenotype of innervating sympathetic neurones.
The role of ATP in anoxic activation of ATP-sensitive K+ (KATP) channels was studied in dorsal vagal neurons of mouse brainstem slices. In the whole-cell configuration, cyanide-induced chemical anoxia evoked within 10 s a 300-pA outward current that gave rise to a hyperpolarization of 24 mV. These responses were mimicked by nitrogen-aerated saline, rotenone or diazoxide and abolished by tolbutamide. The cyanide-induced hyperpolarization was due to activation of 70 pS K(ATP) channels that were half-maximally blocked by 5 microM internal ATP. Dialyzing the cells with either 1, 20 or 0 mM ATP did not, however, affect the time to onset, the kinetics or the magnitude of the cyanide-induced hyperpolarization. Impairment of ATP consumption by ouabain, vanadate or reduced temperature had no effect either. Thus, anoxia-induced activation of these KATP channels cannot be explained by a fall of cellular ATP or a concomitant rise of ADP. Anoxia-related changes of the actin cytoskeleton or the composition of the plasma membrane are also not likely to be involved, as cytochalasin D did not affect the cyanide-evoked hyperpolarization and phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate failed to decrease the ATP sensitivity of single KATP channels. Finally, because of a lack of effects of reduced/oxidized glutathione and the oxidase blocker diphenyliodonium on the cyanide-induced hyperpolarization, cellular redox state does not appear to be involved. Our results indicate that despite a high sensitivity to ATP in excised patches, anoxic activation of KATP channels is independent of cellular ATP. Rather the ATP block seems to be removed as a consequence of impaired mitochondrial function.
The modulation of spontaneous miniature GABAergic inhibitory postsynaptic currents (mIPSC) by the metabotropic glutamate receptors was investigated in the mechanically dissociated rat nucleus basalis of Meynert neurons using the conventional whole-cell patch recording configuration. An application of (+/-)-1-aminocyclopentane-trans-1,3-dicarboxylic acid (tACPD) reversibly reduced the frequency of mIPSC without affecting the current amplitude distribution. The application of K+ channel blockers such as 4-aminopyridine, Cs+, Ba2+ or tetraethylammonium increased the mIPSC frequency, but failed to inhibit the tACPD action on mIPSC. Although the removal of Ca2+ from the extracellular solution reduced the mIPSC frequency, the inhibitory effect of tACPD on mIPSC was unaltered. These results suggested that neither voltage-dependent K+ or Ca2+ channels are involved in the inhibitory effect of tACPD on mIPSC frequency. Forskolin, an activator of adenylate cyclase, facilitated the mIPSC frequency in a concentration-dependent manner and inhibited the tACPD-induced suppression of mIPSC frequency. 8-Br-cAMP, a membrane permeable analog of cAMP, also prevented the inhibitory action of tACPD. However, Sp-cAMP, an activator of protein kinase A, could not prevent the inhibitory action of tACPD. L-CCG-I and (2R,4R)-APDC, group II mGluR agonists, mimicked the tACPD action on mIPSC frequency, but L-AP4, a group III mGluR agonist, had no such effect. MCCG, a group II mGluR antagonist, fully blocked the tACPD action. It was concluded that the activation of group II mGluR on the GABAergic presynaptic nerve terminals projecting to the rat nucleus basalis of Meynert neurons therefore inhibits the GABA release by reducing the activity of the cAMP-dependent pathway.
The specific combination of homeobox genes is proposed to be decisive in the terminal differentiation of neuronal systems. In order to identify combined expression of homeobox genes in the ventral forebrain, a reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction strategy using degenerated primers was employed. We identified, amongst others, Lhx7 and Gbx1, displaying a marked overlapping expression in septal and pallidal areas. Gbx1 and Lhx7 were both expressed in those adult brain nuclei that collectively form the basal forebrain cholinergic system, a prime target of neurodegeneration in Alzheimer's disease. Indeed, we detected Lhx7 within cholinergic neurons, whereas the related Lhx6 gene was found in adjacent neurons. From these data we suggest that combined expression of Lhx7 and Gbx1 plays a role in the development of the cholinergic system of the basal forebrain. It is speculated that both genes remain participating in molecular processes in the adult cholinergic neurons, and can be employed to study regulation and survival of these neurons under normal and pathological conditions.
Previous work has shown that nicotine treatment protects against nigrostriatal degeneration in rodents, findings that may be of relevance to the decreased incidence of Parkinson's disease in cigarette smokers. In the present studies, we investigated the effect of nicotine against 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium-induced toxicity in dopaminergic ventral mesencephalic cultures to identify the nicotinic receptor population that may be involved. [3H]Epibatidine, a ligand that binds to receptors containing alpha2-alpha6 subunits, bound to at least two populations of sites that were up-regulated by nicotine in a time and dose dependent manner. We next examined the effect of nicotine on cultures treated with 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium, a neurotoxin that selectively damages nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons. Pre-treatment with nicotine, at 10(-7)-10(-4) M, partially prevented the toxin-induced decline in dopaminergic cells. Pre-exposure to nicotine for 24 h resulted in optimal protection, suggesting that receptor up-regulation may contribute to the observed neuroprotective effect. Nicotine-mediated protection was blocked by pre-incubation with the nicotinic receptor antagonist d-tubocurarine (10(-4) M), but not the alpha7 receptor-selective antagonist alpha-bungarotoxin (10(-7) M). Our results show that nicotinic receptor activation partially protects nigral dopaminergic neurons from 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium-induced toxicity in culture and that this appears to occur through an interaction at non-alpha7 containing receptors.
The stimulation of glutamate receptors plays a relevant role in the development of behavioral sensitization to psychostimulants, while less clear results have been obtained on their role in morphine sensitization. We addressed this issue by comparing the development of cocaine and morphine sensitization under a continuous s.c. infusion of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonist dizocilpine (0.1 mg/kg/24 h). Moreover, we studied the expression of NMDA and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate (AMPA) receptor subunits in discrete limbic areas of rats sensitized to morphine or cocaine with or without the concomitant dizocilpine infusion. It was observed that dizocilpine infusion did not prevent the development of morphine sensitization, while it prevented the development of tolerance to morphine-induced analgesia. Finally, morphine-sensitized animals did not present any modification in the subunit expression of glutamate receptors in the brain areas examined. In agreement with previous results, we found that dizocilpine infusion prevented the development of cocaine sensitization. Moreover, we observed that rats sensitized to cocaine presented a significant increase in the levels of GLUR1, NR1 and NR2B, in the nucleus accumbens, and of NR2B in the hippocampus compared to control animals. Such modifications were absent in rats administered cocaine under dizocilpine infusion. We conclude that: (i) morphine sensitization is a neuroadaptive phenomenon which does not appear to require NMDA receptor activity in order to develop; (ii) cocaine sensitization is clearly dependent on NMDA receptor activity, as dizocilpine infusion prevented the occurrence of glutamate receptors modifications as well as the development of sensitization.
Corticotropin-releasing hormone plays an important role in the coordination of various responses to stress. Previous research has implicated both corticotropin-releasing hormone and the serotonergic system as causative factors in the development and course of stress-related psychiatric disorders such as major depression. To delineate the role of the corticotropin-releasing hormone receptor type 1 (CRH-R1) in the interactions between corticotropin-releasing hormone and serotonergic neurotransmission, in vivo microdialysis was performed in CRH-R1-deficient mice under basal (home cage) and stress (forced swimming) conditions. Hippocampal dialysates were used to measure extracellular levels of serotonin and its metabolite 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid, and free corticosterone levels to monitor the status of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical axis. Moreover, behavioural activity was assessed by visual observation and a scoring paradigm. Both wild-type and heterozygous mutant mice showed a clear diurnal rhythm in free corticosterone. Free corticosterone concentrations were, however, lower in heterozygous mutant mice than in wild-type animals and undetectable in homozygous CRH-R1-deficient mice. Homozygous CRH-R1-deficient mice showed enhanced hippocampal levels of 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid but not of serotonin during the light and the dark phase of the diurnal cycle, which may point to an enhanced synthesis of serotonin in the raphe-hippocampal system. Moreover, the mutation resulted in higher behavioural activity in the home cage during the light but not during the dark period. Forced swimming caused a rise in hippocampal serotonin followed by a further increase after the end of the stress paradigm in all genotypes. Homozygous and heterozygous mutant mice showed, however, a significantly amplified serotonin response to the forced swimming as compared to wild-type control animals. We conclude that CRH-R1-deficiency results in reduced hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical axis activity, in enhanced synthesis of serotonin during basal conditions, and in an augmented response in extracellular levels of serotonin to stress. These data provide further evidence for the intricate relationship between corticotropin-releasing hormone and serotonin and the important role of the CRH-R1 herein.
We report the presence of dehydroepiandosterone (DHEA) and DHEA sulphate (DHEA-S) in the day-old-chick brain, and their possible role in memory formation. DHEA and DHEA-S were present in the brain at higher concentrations than in the plasma. Radioimmunoassay examination of the intermediate medial hyperstriatum ventrale 5 or 30 min after training or the lobus parolfactorius 60 or 120 min after training on the passive avoidance task did not show learning-related differences in absolute levels of DHEA or DHEA-S. However, bilateral intracerebral injections of DHEA or DHEA-S before or after training on the weak passive avoidance task enhanced recall 24 h after training. Memory retention was enhanced by administration of DHEA and DHEA-S 15 min before training or 30 and 60 but not 180 min after training. Neurosteroids are present in high concentrations in regions of the chick brain known to be associated with learning and memory for an aversive one-trial task. Our study demonstrates that memory retention for this task is enhanced by administration of the neurosteroids DHEA-S and DHEA. These findings provide additional evidence that these neurosteroids have memory-enhancing properties and, thus, if common to other tasks and species, that DHEA-S and DHEA may constitute potential therapeutic tools for the treatment of cognitive deficits.
The findings reported in this work show that pretreatment with polyunsaturated fatty acids, particularly linolenic acid, present in vegetable oils, can provide a potent tolerance against neurodegeneration in two models of neuronal death-generating treatments such as kainic acid injection and global ischemia. Rats were injected i.v. with 500 nmol/kg of linolenic acid as long as 3 days prior to 6 min global ischemia or received an injection of linolenic acid as long as 3 days prior to a dose of 7.5 mg/kg kainic acid. Neuronal degeneration, assessed by analysis of neuronal density on Cresyl Violet-stained hippocampal sections, was significantly reduced in linolenic acid-treated rats (94-85% of cell survival in the ischemic model and 99-79% of cell survival in the epileptic model in respective CA1 and CA3 subfields). The neuroprotection observed following the injection of linolenic acid 3 days prior to induction of a severe ischemic or epileptic challenge was associated with the induction of the neuroprotective HSP70 heat shock protein within the time window of protection. The injection of 500 nmol/kg of linolenic acid induced a maximal HSP70 expression of 387% at 72 h. In contrast, the overexpression of one well-known protein inducer of neuronal cell death, Bax, which is induced by both ischemic and kainic acid-induced epileptic insults, was prevented by linolenic acid in the 3-day window of protection. These results strengthen the idea of an interesting potential therapeutical value of polyunsaturated fatty acids in neuronal protection.
The present study addresses mineralocorticoid receptor and glucocorticoid receptor effects on hippocampal neuron viability after experimental traumatic brain injury. Rats were pretreated for 48 h with vehicle, the mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist spironolactone, or the glucocorticoid receptor antagonist mifepristone (RU486) and subsequently subjected to sham operation or unilateral controlled cortical impact injury. To determine the effects of receptor antagonist pretreatments on cell survival, neurons in regions CA1, CA3, and dentate gyrus of the hippocampal formation were counted 24 h post-injury using the optical fractionator method. Injury decreased the number of viable neurons in CA1 and CA3 of vehicle-pretreated animals. Notably, this cell loss was prevented in CA1 by RU486 pretreatment. Neuronal loss was also observed in dentate gyrus. The effects of receptor blockade and injury on the expression of viability-related genes were also assessed by comparing relative bcl-2, bax, and p53 messenger RNA levels using in situ hybridization analysis. Spironolactone and RU486 decreased basal bcl-2 messenger RNA levels in CA1 and dentate gyrus but did not affect basal bax or p53 levels. Injury decreased bcl-2 messenger RNA levels in dentate gyrus but did not affect bax or p53 levels in vehicle-pretreated animals. These data demonstrate that RU486 pretreatment prevents the loss of CA1 pyramidal neurons 24 h after traumatic brain injury. RU486 modulation of bcl-2, bax, or p53 messenger RNA expression does not predict neuronal viability at this time point, suggesting that RU486-mediated preservation of CA1 neurons does not involve transcriptional regulation of these cell death-related genes.
In the nervous system, apoptosis is a major process during embryonic and postnatal stages. In chick, experimental cell death can be obtained by axotomy. We have compared the responses of olfactory neurons to axotomy at embryonic stage E17 and postnatal stages.Forty-three chicken embryos and 32 young chickens less than 3 weeks old were used. We combined optic microscopy, electronic microscopy, terminal (TdT)-mediated dUTP-nick end labeling (TUNEL) method and gel electrophoresis of genomic DNA to analyze cell death. Cells in synthetic phase were labeled by bromodeoxyuridine injected i.p. and detected by immunohistochemistry. Apoptotic index and 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) labeling index were calculated for each stage. The Wilcoxon test was used for statistical analysis. A P value &lt;0.05 was considered significant. Within 3 days following axotomy in E17 chicken embryos, there was no significant increase of apoptosis on the lesion side analyzed 3, 6, 12, 18, 24, 48 or 56 h later. A slight increase of bromodeoxyuridine incorporation appeared at 3 h, was weakly significant at 24 h (P=0.045) and the return to basal rate took place at 48 h. In postnatal stages, an apoptotic wave appeared 12 h after axotomy, reached a maximum at 24 h, and then decreased between 48 h and 72 h. A significant elevation of bromodeoxyuridine incorporation occurred on 48 h with a 24 h delay after the peak of apoptotic death. This differential response to axotomy in embryos and postnatal chickens might be due to a less complete maturation and higher plasticity of embryonic olfactory neurons corresponding to different requirement for survival and differentiation factors. Thus the embryonic or immature neurons would depend more on local epithelial environment and mature or postnatal neurons would require target-derived survival factors and die from apoptosis after their shortage resulting from axotomy.
During periods of high-frequency stimulation the maintenance of synaptic transmission depends on a continued supply of synaptic vesicles. Local recycling in the terminals ensures synaptic vesicle replenishment, but the intermediate steps are still a matter of debate. We analyzed changes in synaptic vesicle pools and endosome-like organelles near the active zone in central nerve terminals during depolarization at the ultrastructural level by electron microscopy. A short, 100 ms, depolarization-induced recruitment of synaptic vesicles was observed from a reserve pool to a recruited pool, within 150 nm of the active zone, and the docked pool at the active zone was increased as well. Prolonged, 15 s or 3 min, depolarization decreased the total amount of synaptic vesicles, which was accompanied by a parallel increase in size and amount of endosome-like organelles. After a period of rest, the number of endosome-like organelles decreased and the amount of synaptic vesicles was restored to control level. The endocytotic nature of part of the endosome-like organelles after 15 s and 3 min depolarization was indicated by their labeling with extracellularly added horseradish peroxidase (HRP). In addition, a small number of synaptic vesicles entrapped HRP under these conditions. After repolarization, the number of HRP-loaded endosome-like structures decreased. Simultaneously, a strong increase in amount of HRP-loaded small vesicles did occur. These results indicate that during sub-second depolarization, synaptic vesicles were rapidly recruited from the reserve pool to replenish the releasable pool, whereas prolonged depolarization (s-min) induced local endocytosis in at least two ways, i.e. either directly as vesicles or via endosome-like organelles from which synaptic vesicles were reformed.
The brainstem trigeminal somatosensory complex, while sharing many common aspects with the spinal somatosensory system, displays features specific to orofacial information processing. One of those is the redundant representation of peripheral structures within the various subnuclei of the complex. A functional redundancy also exists since a single sensory modality, e.g. nociception, may be processed within different subnuclei. In the present study, we addressed the question whether anatomical connections from the caudal part to the oral part of the spinal trigeminal nucleus may support topographical and functional redundancy within the rat trigeminal somatosensory complex. The retrograde tracer tetramethylrhodamine-dextran was injected iontophoretically into the oral subnucleus of anaesthetised rats. Cell bodies labelled retrogradely from the oral subnucleus were observed in laminae III-IV and V of the ipsilateral caudal subnucleus consistently, and to a lesser degree in lamina I. Such a distribution of retrogradely labelled cells suggested that specific subsets of neurones may relay nociceptive information, and others non-nociceptive information. Furthermore, intratrigeminal connections conserved the somatotopic distribution of primary afferents in the two subnuclei. First, injections of tracer in the dorsomedial and ventrolateral parts of the oral subnucleus resulted in retrograde labelling of the dorsal and ventral parts of the caudal subnucleus respectively. Second, animals that received tracer into the ventrolateral oral subnucleus displayed more caudal labelling than animals that were injected into the dorsomedial oral subnucleus. These findings show the existence of anatomical connections from the caudal part to the oral part of the spinal trigeminal nucleus in the rat. The connections conserve the somatotopic distribution of primary afferents in the two subnuclei. They provide an anatomical substrate for the indirect activation of trigeminal oral subnucleus neurones by somatosensory stimuli through the caudal subnucleus.
Spiral ganglion neurones provide the afferent innervation to cochlear hair cells. Little is known of the molecular physiological processes associated with the differentiation of these neurones, which occurs up to and beyond hearing onset. We have identified novel A-type (inactivating) potassium currents in neonatal rat spiral ganglion neurones in situ, which have not previously been reported from the mammalian cochlea, presumably as a consequence of altered protein expression associated with other preparations. Under whole-cell voltage clamp, voltage steps activated both A-type and non-inactivating outward currents from around -55 mV. The amplitude of the A-type currents was dependent on the holding potential, with steady-state inactivation relieved at hyperpolarised potentials. At -60 mV (close to the resting potential in situ) the currents were approximately 30% enabled. The inactivation kinetics and the degree of inactivation varied between cells, suggesting heterogeneous expression of multiple inactivating currents. A-type currents provided around 60% of total conductance activated by depolarising voltage steps from the resting potential, and were very sensitive to bath-applied 4-aminopyridine (0.01-1 mM). Tetraethylammonium (0.1-30 mM) also blocked the majority of the A-type currents, and the non-inactivating outward current, but left residual fast inactivating A-type current. Under current clamp, neurones fired single tetrodotoxin-sensitive action potentials. 4-Aminopyridine relieved the A-type current mediated stabilisation of membrane potential, resulting in periodic small amplitude action potentials. This study provides the first electrophysiological evidence for A-type potassium currents in neonatal spiral ganglion neurones and shows that these currents play an integral role in primary auditory neurone firing.
In adult Sprague-Dawley rats we have investigated retinal ganglion cell survival after transient intervals of retinal ischemia of 30, 45, 60, 90 or 120 min duration, induced by ligature of the ophthalmic vessels. Animals were killed 5, 7, 14, 21, 30, 60, 90 or 180 days later and densities of surviving retinal ganglion cells were estimated in retinal whole mounts by counting cells labelled with diAsp. This dye was applied, 3 days prior to death, to the ocular stump of the intraorbitally transected optic nerve. We found that retinal ganglion cell loss after retinal ischemia proceeds for different lengths of time. All the ischemic intervals induced loss of retinal ganglion cells whose severity and duration was related to the length of the ischemic interval. Following 30 or 45 min of ischemia, cell loss lasted 14 days and caused the death of 46 or 50%, respectively, of the population of retinal ganglion cells. Sixty, 90 or 120 min of retinal ischemia were followed by a period of cell loss that lasted up to 90 days and caused the death of 75%, 87% or 99%, respectively, of the population of retinal ganglion cells. We conclude that retinal ganglion cell loss after retinal ischemia is an ongoing process that may last up to 3 months after the injury and that its severity and duration are determined by the ischemic interval.
Excessive nitric oxide formation may contribute to the pathology occurring in diseases affecting central white matter, such as multiple sclerosis. The rat isolated optic nerve preparation was used to investigate the potential toxicity of the molecule towards such tissue. The nerves were exposed to a range of concentrations of different classes of nitric oxide donor for up to 23 h, with or without a subsequent period of recovery, and the damage assessed by quantitative histological methods. Degeneration of axons and macroglia occurred in a time- and concentration-dependent manner, the order of susceptibility being: axons&gt;oligodendrocytes&gt;astrocytes. Use of NONOate donors differing in half-life indicated that nitric oxide delivered in an enduring manner at relatively low concentration was more toxic than the same amount supplied rapidly at high concentration. The mechanism by which nitric oxide affects axons was studied using a donor [3-(n-propylamino)propylamine/NO adduct, PAPA/NO] with an intermediate half-life that produced selective axonopathy after a 2-h exposure (plus 2 h recovery). Axon damage was abolished if, during the exposure, Na(+) or Ca(2+) was removed from the bathing medium or the sodium channel inhibitors tetrodotoxin or BW619C89 (sipatrigine) were added. In electrophysiological experiments, the donor elicited a biphasic depolarisation. The second, larger component (occurring after 7-10 min) was associated with a block of nerve conduction and could be inhibited by tetrodotoxin. Coincident with the secondary depolarisation was a reduction in ATP levels by about 50%, an effect that was also inhibited by tetrodotoxin. It is concluded that nitric oxide, in submicromolar concentrations, can kill axons and macroglia in white matter. The findings lend support to the hypothesis that nitric oxide may be of importance to white matter pathologies, particularly those in which inducible nitric oxide synthase is expressed. The axonopathy, at least when elicited over relatively short time intervals, is likely to be caused by metabolic inhibition. As in anoxia and anoxia/aglycaemia, nitric oxide-induced destruction of axons is likely to be caused by the Ca(2+) overload that follows a reduction in ATP levels in the face of continued influx of Na(+) through voltage-dependent channels.
The effects of activation of mu and delta-opioid receptors in the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM) on somato-sympathetic, baroreceptor and chemoreceptor reflexes, as well as respiratory rhythmicity in sympathetic nerves, were examined in urethane anaesthetized (1.1-1.2 g/kg) and artificially ventilated Sprague-Dawley rats. Microinjection of the delta-opioid receptor agonist [D-Pen(2,5)]-enkephalin (DPDPE; 8 mM, 50 nl) bilaterally into the RVLM potently inhibited the post-inspiratory-related burst discharges of lumbar sympathetic nerve activity (LSNA) but had only limited effects on splanchnic sympathetic nerve activity (SSNA) and phrenic nerve discharge. Injection of DPDPE into the RVLM strongly attenuated the somato-sympathetic reflex (approximately 50-80%) evoked in the lumbar sympathetic nerve and splanchnic sympathetic nerve by tibial nerve stimulation but had no effect on baroreceptor reflexes and chemoreceptor reflexes evoked by aortic nerve stimulation and brief hypoxia, respectively. Injection of the mu-opioid receptor agonist, [D-Ala(2),N-Me-Phe(4),Gly-ol(5)]-enkephalin (DAMGO; 4 mM, 50 nl), also elicited a greater inhibition of LSNA than SSNA accompanied by an abolition of phrenic nerve discharge. Injection of DAMGO inhibited the baroreceptor reflex without significant effect on either the somato-sympathetic or the chemoreceptor reflexes. We propose that opioid peptides diminish specific excitatory and inhibitory inputs to the presympathetic neurons in RVLM via distinct presynaptic receptor subclasses.
Previous studies have shown that serotonergic neurons of the median raphe nucleus have a suppressive effect on theta synchronization in the hippocampus. Median raphe lesion, suppression of 5-HT neuronal activity by administration of GABA(A) receptor antagonist or by glutamate blockade or depletion produced long-lasting non-interrupted hippocampal theta in freely behaving rats independent of behavior and in rats anesthetized with urethane. Serotonergic neurons show a characteristic sleep-wake pattern of activity and there is evidence that GABAergic mechanisms play an important role in their regulation. In this study we analyzed the distribution and subcellular localization of GABA(B) receptors in the midbrain raphe complex using combined 5-HT/GABA(B) receptor immunohistochemistry at the light and electron microscopic levels and studied the effects of their pharmacological manipulation on hippocampal electroencephalographic activity in urethane-anesthetized rats. We found that sustained infusion of the GABA(B) receptor agonist baclofen into the median raphe nucleus, using the microdialysis technique, elicited lasting theta activity in the hippocampus. The effect was antagonized by selective GABA(B) receptor antagonists. The predominant localization of GABA(B) receptors in the median, as well as in dorsal raphe was found on serotonergic neurons which strongly indicates that the increase in theta occurrence after baclofen injection resulted from suppression of the serotonergic output originating from the median raphe. On the electron microscopic level, we found GABA(B) receptors located extrasynaptically indicating that these receptors are preferentially activated by strong inputs, i.e. when GABA released from the synaptic terminals is sufficient to spill over from the synaptic cleft. Such conditions might be satisfied during rapid eye movement sleep when GABAergic neurons in the raphe are firing at their highest rate and in rhythmic synchronized bursts. Our data indicate that midbrain raphe GABA(B) mechanisms play an important role in behavioral state control and in hippocampal activity, in particular.
Proteoglycans may modulate axon growth in the intact and injured adult mammalian CNS. Here we investigate the distribution and time course of deposition of a range of proteoglycans between 4 and 14 days following unilateral axotomy of the nigrostriatal tract in anaesthetised adult rats. Immunolabelling using a variety of antibodies was used to examine the response of heparan sulphate proteoglycans, chondroitin sulphate proteoglycans and keratan sulphate proteoglycans. We observed that many proteoglycans became abundant between 1 and 2 weeks post-axotomy. Heparan sulphate proteoglycans were predominantly found within the lesion core (populated by blood vessels, amoeboid macrophages and meningeal fibroblasts) whereas chondroitin sulphate proteoglycans and keratan sulphate proteoglycans were predominantly found in the lesion surround (populated by reactive astrocytes, activated microglia and adult precursor cells). Immunolabelling indicated that cut dopaminergic nigral axons sprouted prolifically within the lesion core but rarely grew into the lesion surround. We conclude that sprouting of cut dopaminergic nigral axons may be supported by heparan sulphate proteoglycans but restricted by chondroitin sulphate proteoglycans and keratan sulphate proteoglycans.
Chronic administration of typical neuroleptics is associated with tardive dyskinesia in some patients. This dyskinetic syndrome has been associated with loss of GABAergic markers in the basal ganglia but the cause of these GABAergic depletions remains uncertain. Haloperidol, a commonly prescribed typical neuroleptic, is known to be toxic in vitro, possibly as a consequence of its conversion to pyridinium-based metabolites and potentially by raising glutamate-mediated transmission. We report here that the in vivo, acute administration of a large dose of haloperidol resulted in a microglial response indicative of neuronal damage. This was accompanied by an increase in the number of apoptotic cells in the striatum (especially in the dorsomedial caudate putamen) and in the substantia nigra pars reticulata. These apoptotic cells were characterised by the stereotaxic injection of a retrograde neuroanatomical tracer into the projection targets of the striatum and substantia nigra pars reticulata prior to the systemic injection of haloperidol. This procedure confirmed that the dying cells were neurones and demonstrated that within the striatum the majority were striatopallidal neurones though relatively high levels of apoptotic striatoentopeduncular neurones were also seen.The possibility that chronic administration of haloperidol could induce cumulative neuronal loss in the substantia nigra pars reticulata and thereby induce the pathological changes which lead to tardive dyskinesia is discussed.
Transgenic R6/1 mice incorporate a human genomic fragment containing promoter elements exon 1 and a portion of intron 2 of the Huntingtin gene responsible for Huntington's disease. They develop late-onset neurological deficits in a manner similar to the motor abnormalities of the disorder. As essential fatty acids are phospholipid components of cell membranes which may influence cell death and movement disorder phenotype, R6/1 and normal mice were randomised to receive a mixture of essential fatty acids or placebo on alternate days throughout life. Over mid-adulthood, topographical assessment of behaviour revealed R6/1 transgenics to evidence progressive shortening of stride length, with progressive reductions in locomotion, elements of rearing, sniffing, sifting and chewing, and an increase in grooming. These deficits were either not evident or materially diminished in R6/1 transgenics receiving essential fatty acids. R6/1 transgenics also showed reductions in body weight and in brain dopamine D(1)-like and D(2)-like quantitative receptor autoradiography which were unaltered by essential fatty acids.These findings indicate that early and sustained treatment with essential fatty acids are able to protect against motor deficits in R6/1 transgenic mice expressing exon 1 and a portion of intron 2 of the Huntingtin gene, and suggest that essential fatty acids may have therapeutic potential in Huntington's disease.
Two types of GABAergic interneurone are known to express cholecystokinin-related peptides in the isocortex: basket cells, which preferentially innervate the somata and proximal dendrites of pyramidal cells; and double bouquet cells, which innervate distal dendrites and dendritic spines. In the hippocampus, cholecystokinin immunoreactivity has only been reported in basket cells. However, at least eight distinct GABAergic interneurone types terminate in the dendritic domain of CA1 pyramidal cells, some of them with as yet undetermined neurochemical characteristics. In order to establish whether more than one population of cholecystokinin-expressing interneurone exist in the hippocampus, we have performed whole-cell current clamp recordings from interneurones located in the stratum radiatum of the hippocampal CA1 region of developing rats. Recorded neurones were filled with biocytin to reveal their axonal targets, and were tested for the presence of pro-cholecystokinin immunoreactivity. The results show that two populations of cholecystokinin-immunoreactive interneurones exist in the CA1 area (n=15 positive cells). Cholecystokinin-positive basket cells (53%) preferentially innervate stratum pyramidale and adjacent strata oriens and radiatum. A second population of cholecystokinin-positive cells, previously described as Schaffer collateral-associated interneurones [Vida et al. (1998) J. Physiol. 506, 755-773], have axons that ramify almost exclusively in strata radiatum and oriens, overlapping with the Schaffer collateral/commissural pathway originating from CA3 pyramidal cells. Two of seven of the Schaffer collateral-associated cells were also immunopositive for calbindin. Soma position and orientation in stratum radiatum, the number and orientation of dendrites, and the passive and active membrane properties of the two cell populations are only slightly different. In addition, in stratum radiatum and its border with lacunosum of perfusion-fixed hippocampi, 31.6+/-3.8% (adult) or 26.8+/-2.9% (postnatal day 17-20) of cholecystokinin-positive cells were also immunoreactive for calbindin. Therefore, at least two populations of pro-cholecystokinin-immunopositive interneurones, basket and Schaffer collateral-associated cells, exist in the CA1 area of the hippocampus, and are probably homologous to cholecystokinin-immunopositive basket and double bouquet cells in the isocortex. It is not known if the GABAergic terminals of double bouquet cells are co-aligned with specific glutamatergic inputs. However, in the hippocampal CA1 area, it is clear that the terminals of Schaffer collateral-associated cells are co-stratified with the glutamatergic input from the CA3 area, with as yet unknown functional consequences. The division of the postsynaptic neuronal surface by two classes of GABAergic cell expressing cholecystokinin in both the hippocampus and isocortex provides further evidence for the uniform synaptic organisation of the cerebral cortex.
Rapid uptake of synaptically released glutamate via the high affinity glutamate transporter 1 (GLT1; EAAT2) is important for limiting transmitter signalling and prevents a harmful receptor overstimulation. So far, in the adult brain GLT1 protein has only been detected in astrocytes. Here, we describe the cDNA cloning of a variant of GLT1 from rat brain which is generated by alternative splicing at the 3'-end of the GLT1 cDNA. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction revealed that the GLT1 variant message was present not only in brain, but also in peripheral organs. Northern blot analysis showed that in brain the mRNA of GLT1 (approximately 11 kb) is predominant while in the retina the mRNA of GLT1 variant (approximately 12.5 kb) prevails. In situ hybridization using cRNA and oligonucleotide probes, and immunocytochemistry using an antibody against a synthetic GLT1v peptide were applied in order to identify the cell types expressing GLT1 variant in the adult rat nervous system. GLT1 variant is preferentially expressed in neurons of the CNS and PNS, but is also detected in glial cells (oligodendrocytes, ependymal cells, epithelial cells of the plexus choroideus, satellite cells, and Schwann cells). In contrast to GLT1, GLT1 variant was only occasionally detected in astrocytes. Immunolabelling revealed a preferentially cytoplasmic (frequently granular) staining of neurons and glial cells, suggesting a localization of GLT1 variant protein in vesicle membranes. The studies provide evidence that the cellular expression of the GLT1 variant in the CNS is almost complementary to that of GLT1 and that the GLT1 variant does not seem to be restricted to the CNS.
A monoclonal antibody to excitatory amino acid transporter 1 (EAAT1) has been generated which robustly stains paraffin-embedded, formaldehyde-fixed as well as snap-frozen human post-mortem brain tissue. We have used this antibody to map the distribution of EAAT1 throughout normal human CNS tissue. In addition this antibody has been used to perform a semi-quantitative immunohistochemical analysis of the expression of EAAT1 in motor cortex and cervical cord tissue taken from motor neurone disease cases (n=17) and neurologically normal controls (n=12). By comparing the relative optical density measurements of identical regions of motor cortex and cervical spinal cord an increase in the expression levels of EAAT1 was observed in motor neurone disease tissue compared to the control tissue and in both motor cortex and cervical spinal cord (9-17% and 13-33% increases respectively). EAAT1 was observed to be the most abundant transporter in more &quot;caudal&quot; brain regions such as the diencephalon and brainstem and its expression in other regions was frequently more uniform than that of EAAT2. In the motor cortex, EAAT1 immunoreactivity was present in all grey matter laminae, with some staining of individual astrocytes in the white matter. In spinal cord, EAAT1 immunoreactivity was strongest in the substantia gelatinosa. In the ventral horn, motor neurones were surrounded with a dense rim of perisomatic EAAT1 immunoreactivity, and the neuropil showed diffuse staining. Additional studies using double-labelling immunocytochemistry demonstrated that astrocytic co-localisation of EAAT1 and EAAT2 may occasionally be seen, but was not widespread in the human CNS and that in general astrocytes were positive for either EAAT1 or EAAT2. These results demonstrate that the EAAT1 has a widespread abundance throughout all regions of the human CNS examined and that there exist discrete populations of astrocytes that are positive solely for either EAAT1 or EAAT2. Furthermore, there is evidence to suggest that altered EAAT1 expression in motor neurone disease follows a different pattern to the reported changes of EAAT2 expression in this condition, indicating that the role of glutamate transporters in the pathogenesis of motor neurone disease appears more complex than previously appreciated.
A search for genes differentially expressed in the rat striatum revealed a gene fragment with a ventral to dorsal striatal expression pattern. The sequence of the fragment was used to isolate mouse and rat clones that upon sequencing were identified as homologous to human guanine deaminase. Here we report the distribution of guanine deaminase in the rodent brain. In situ hybridization localization of the encoding mRNA showed a distribution primarily in forebrain areas including cortical pyramidal neurons, ventral striatal medium spiny neurons, hippocampal pyramidal neurons in CA3-CA1 and granule cells in the dentate gyrus, and neurons of the amygdala. Immunohistochemistry using antibodies raised against peptide fragments derived from the guanine deaminase protein sequence showed localization of guanine deaminase in areas predicted by the mRNA distribution. In addition to immunolabeling of neurons in the cerebral cortex, hippocampus, striatum and amygdala there was also labeling in the terminal fields of these neurons including the thalamus, globus pallidum and substantia nigra. A functional histochemical assay that demonstrates the site of guanine deamination shows guanine deaminase activity in a pattern that matched the immunohistochemical localization. The cellular distribution of guanine deaminase to distal areas of the cell including terminals and dendrites was additionally demonstrated by the expression of recombinant guanine deaminase in transformed cortical neurons in culture. In summary we have described the isolation and characterization of mouse and rat guanine deaminase. The expression of guanine deaminase is primarily restricted to forebrain neurons. A histochemical assay was used to localize guanine deaminase activity to the dendrites and axons of neurons expressing guanine deaminase.
The appearance of 14-3-3 proteins in the cerebrospinal fluid is characteristic of some neurodegenerative conditions which include sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. Although 14-3-3 proteins are physiochemically well characterised and are known to be present in neuronal cells little is known of the neuroanatomical localisation of the individual isoforms. Using 14-3-3 isoform specific antibodies we have examined the distribution of the isoforms in normal murine brain and the changes observed during neurodegeneration as a result of ME7 scrapie infection. In normal brain there are two major patterns of immunolabelling. The beta, gamma, eta and zeta isoforms which exhibit a similar distribution pattern showing labelling of neuronal cell bodies often in particular anatomical nuclei. However the individual isoforms exhibit variation revealing subtle differences in location. The tau isoform was found only in the hippocampus and medulla, and the epsilon isoform was found throughout grey matter of the CNS. In the scrapie-infected murine brain, where severe pathological changes occur during the course of the disease, significant differences in the 14-3-3 isoform distribution were observed in the hippocampus and in the thalamus. Importantly, both the 14-3-3 eta isoform and prion protein were seen in the same neurones in both the cerebellar roof nuclei and in the lateral hypothalamic nuclei. Our study of 14-3-3 isoform distribution in adult murine brain clearly demonstrates a heterogeneous pattern of neurolocation for specific 14-3-3 isoforms. The fact that isoform labelling in terminal scrapie CNS is lost in some brain areas, but increases in others, suggests that the processing of these proteins during neurodegeneration may be much more complex than previously recognised.
It is generally believed that only L-amino acids have a physiological role in species other than bacteria. Recently, the existence of some D-amino acids, particularly D-aspartate, in various organs of several higher animals has been reported. Here we demonstrate that naturally occurring free D-aspartate is localized subcellularly to the heterochromatin in the nucleoli (but not in either the dendrites or axonal terminals) of magnocellular neurosecretory neurons in the rat hypothalamus, and also of microglia and pericytes in the posterior pituitary. Our results imply that naturally occurring free D-aspartate might have a physiological role in nuclear function in mammals. The findings provide new insight for the biological function of D-stereoisomers of amino acids as well as the organization of the nucleus of at least some eukaryotic cells.


We present a 2-year old boy with accidental ingestion of a tricyclic antidepressant and outline the clinical features, management and prevention. Despite ingesting a high dose of amitriptyline (20mg/kg) and showing serum levels above the toxic range (1380 ng/ml), our patient did not develop any life threatening complications. Gastric lavage followed by instillation of activated charcoal, repeated at 6 hours, along with supportive measures led to complete recovery in 48 hours. As children are often exposed to tricyclic antidepressant poisoning, their carers and physicians need to be well aware of the disorder and its management.








Stroke is a leading cause of serious and long-term disability and death worlwide, with approximately 750,000 strokes occuring annually in the United States of America. The risk of stroke doubles each decade for people over 55 years. Cerebral angiography conducted soon after the onset of stroke demonstrates arterial occlusion in 70%-80% of cases. Recanalization of an occluded cerebral artery may assist in the recovery of reversibly ischemic tissue and limit the neurological disability. In June 1996, the recombinant tissue plasminogen activator was approved as a safe and an effective intravenous treatment for acute ischemic stroke, especially if given within 3 hours of onset of symptoms. Since approval, less than 5% of all stroke patients are receiving recombinant tissue plasminogen activator. In this review we try to answer the question of whether recombinant tissue plasminogen activator therapy should be the first-line treatment for acute ischemic stroke. The result of major recombinant tissue plasminogen activator trials will be summarized and reviewed critically.
Inherited neurodegenerative disorders are common in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia as a result of the high rate of consanguinity. This is a complex field with a multitude of different disorders characterized by a variety of clinical manifestations, complex molecular biology, and a long list of potential investigations. As a result, this is often a confusing and difficult area for non-specialists, resulting in delays in reaching the diagnosis. Reaching a specific diagnosis is of clear importance for providing appropriate therapy, prognosis, and genetic counseling. This paper is intended to provide a simplified practical approach to guide residents and generalists in the initial diagnostic evaluation of children with suspected neurodegenerative disorders. Emphasis is placed on useful clinical signs, diagnostic tips, potential pitfalls, and recent advances in therapy.

The motor neuron, the Schwann cell and the muscle cell are highly specialized at the vertebrate skeletal neuromuscular junction (NMJ). The muscle cell surface contains a high local density of acetylcholine (ACh) receptors (AChRs), acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and their interacting macromolecules at the NMJ, forming the postsynaptic specializations. During the early stages of development, the incoming nerve terminal induces the formation of these postsynaptic specializations; the nerve secretes agrin and neuregulin (NRG), which are known to aggregate existing AChRs and to increase the expression of AChR at the synaptic region, respectively. In addition, adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) is stored at the motor nerve terminals and is coreleased with ACh during muscle contraction. Recent evidence suggests that ATP can play a role in forming and maintaining the postsynaptic specializations by activating its corresponding receptors. In particular, one of the nucleotide receptor subtypes, the P2Y(1) receptor, is specifically localized at the NMJs. The gene expression of AChR and AChE is upregulated after the activation of P2Y(1) receptors. Thus, the synaptic ATP together with agrin and NRG can act as a synapse-organizing factor to induce the expression of postsynaptic functional effectors.
Activation of G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) leads to stimulation of classical G protein signaling pathways. In addition, GPCRs can activate the mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) such as the extracellular signal-regulated kinases, c-Jun NH(2)-terminal kinases (JNKs), and p38 MAPKs, and thereby influence cell proliferation, cell differentiation and mitogenesis. Cross talk between GPCRs and receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs) is an incredibly complex process, and the exact signaling molecules involved are largely dependent on the cell type and the type of receptor that is activated. In this review we investigate recent advances that have been made in understanding the mechanisms of cross talk between GPCRs and RTKs, with a focus on GPCR-mediated activation of the Ras/MAPK pathway, GPCR-induced transactivation of RTKs, GPCR-mediated activation of JNK, and p38 MAPK, integration of signals by RhoGTPases, and activation of G protein signaling pathways by RTKs.

Isoflavonoids are plant estrogens that are increasingly advocated as a natural alternative to estrogen replacement therapy (ERT) and are available as dietary supplements. As weak estrogen agonists/antagonists with a range of other enzymatic activities, the isoflavonoids provide a useful model for the actions of endocrine disruptors. This paper reviews the responses of rodents to diets containing coumestrol or an isoflavone supplement in comparison to animals fed the phytoestrogen-free AIN76A diet. Neural mechanisms were investigated by examining isoflavonoid effects on ER(alpha)-dependent (regulation of oxytocin receptor [OTR] binding in the ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus [VMN]) and ERbeta-dependent (regulation of ERbeta mRNA in the paraventricular nucleus [PVN]) endpoints. Activational as well as organizational effects on sexual behavior and gonadotropin secretion were observed for coumestrol. Treatment of rat dams with a 100-ppm coumestrol diet from birth to postnatal day (PND) 21 induced premature anovulation in female offspring, and treatment from birth to PND 10 suppressed sexual behavior in male offspring. One-week treatment of ovariectomized (OVX) female rats with the same coumestrol diet increased ERbeta mRNA expression in the PVN, an effect opposite to that of estradiol. Ten days of treatment with a 200-ppm coumestrol diet increased LH secretion in OVX wild-type mice, an effect opposite to the normal negative feedback effects of estradiol. No effects were observed in ER(alpha) knockout (ER(alpha)KO)-OVX females, indicating that coumestrol's action on LH was mediated through ER(alpha). Similar activational effects were observed for the isoflavone diet. The lordotic response to estrogen was significantly reduced by 2 days of treatment of OVX adult females with an isoflavone diet providing 13 ppm genistein and 33 ppm daidzein. One week of treatment with the same isoflavone diet produced an effect opposite to that of estradiol in the PVN, increasing ERbeta mRNA expression above control levels. These investigations show that, in spite of their preferential affinity for ERbeta, isoflavonoids act through both ER(alpha) and ERbeta. Moreover, their neurobehavioral actions were antiestrogenic, either antagonizing or producing an action in opposition to that of estradiol. This work demonstrates that even small, physiologically relevant exposure levels can alter estrogen-dependent gene expression in the brain and complex behavior.
Phytoestrogens, plant-derived nonsteroidal estrogens found in high abundance in most soy food products, have been studied for their potential beneficial effects against hormone-dependent cancers and age-related diseases. However, little is known about the influence of phytoestrogens on the brain or behavior. This brief review describes mainly our own studies in rodents that have examined the influence of dietary soy isoflavones on certain aspects of brain structure, learning, memory and anxiety along with the brain androgen-metabolizing enzyme, aromatase. These studies used a commercially available diet rich in phytoestrogens (Phyto-rich) vs. a custom diet relatively free of phytoestrogens (Phyto-free). The phytoestrogen content of each diet was determined by high-performance liquid chromatography analysis, circulating plasma phytoestrogen levels were quantified by gas chromatography mass spectroscopy and concentrations of phytoestrogens in specific brain regions were measured by time-resolved fluoroimmunoassay (TR-FIA). Our studies showed that brain aromatase levels were not significantly altered by phytoestrogen diet treatments in perinatal, maternal or adult rats. However, volumes of the sexually dimorphic nucleus of the preoptic area (SDN-POA) were significantly affected by the Phyto-free diet treatment in male rats during adulthood, where SDN-POA volumes were smaller compared to Phyto-rich male values. Additionally, the Phyto-rich diet fed to adult male and female rats produced anxiolytic effects as assessed in the elevated plus maze vs. Phyto-free fed animals. Finally, when learning and memory parameters were examined in a radial arm maze testing visual-spatial memory (VSM), the diet treatments significantly changed the typical sexually dimorphic pattern of VSM. Specifically, adult Phyto-rich fed females outperformed Phyto-free fed females, while in males on the same diets, the opposite pattern of maze performance was observed. When female vs. male performance was compared, Phyto-rich females executed the VSM task in a manner similar to that of Phyto-free fed males, while Phyto-free fed female's VSM was comparable to Phyto-rich males. These results indicate that consumption of dietary phytoestrogens resulting in very high plasma isoflavone levels (in many cases over a relatively short interval of consumption in adulthood) can significantly alter sexually dimorphic brain regions, anxiety, learning and memory. The findings of these studies identify the biological actions of phytoestrogens, specifically isoflavones and their metabolites, found in animal soy-containing diets on brain and behavior and implicate the importance of phytoestrogens given the recognized significance of estrogens in brain and neural disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease, especially in women.
Overactive bladder dysfunction is an expression of defective neuromuscular control of the lower urinary tract. The causes and the way to classify this problem are currently under debate. In some patients the overactive bladder is one sign of a neurological disorder, in so called &quot;idiopathic detrusor instability&quot; the cause is less obvious. That an overactive bladder has a neurogenic cause is a reasonable hypothesis. We made a detailed neurological investigation in 45 patients with idiopathic overactive bladder. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) was examined and blood tests for vitamin B(12)and folic acid deficiency were checked, too. In 37 of the 45 patients (82%) pathological signs were observed in the neurological tests. The most common finding was central or peripheral paresis of the legs appearing in 24 patients (53%). Of the 45 patients, eight received a neurological diagnosis, definite or possible MS or dorsal column sensation neuropathy. The results of this study give an indication of the importance of the neurological examination and suggest that neuropathy might not be uncommon in patients with so-called idiopathic detrusor instability. This also invites to reconsideration of the current classification. It is possible that a new classification based on a functional view could provide a better fundament in the search of etiologic and pathogenetic factors and also guide in the selection of the treatment most optimal for the individual patient.
According to the defense-defeat model of stress, the defense reaction is associated with behavioral activation and the defeat reaction with behavioral inhibition. The aim of this study was to investigate the associations of stress-induced changes of physical activity to certain psychological and behavioral problems among young females. A random sample of 726 females, aged 18-23 years, responded on a self-report questionnaire. Groups were defined by the given response on an item addressing changed levels of physical activity during periods of emotional stress. Groups of increased, decreased and unchanged drive to activity were compared regarding the results on various items. Subjects reporting stress-induced behavioral activation reported significantly higher amounts of habitual physical exercise and activity than did compared groups. They were also more prone to engage in compensatory activities against being overweight. Conversely, subjects reporting stress-induced behavioral inhibition during emotional stress reported more frequent depressive symptoms. Stress-induced changes of physical activity seem to be associated with certain patterns of emotional and behavioral problems among young females.


Studies assessing attitudes towards homosexuals have revealed widespread homophobia. The first aim of this study was to assess potential changes in public attitudes after important legislative changes related to homosexuals in Sweden. The second aim was to test whether the attitudes differ: 1) between people who believe in biological vs. people who believe in psychological theories in explanation of homosexuality, 2) between men and women, and 3) between the older and younger age groups. To this end, a questionnaire survey of a representative, randomly selected, national sample of 992 adult Swedish residents was carried out. The response rate was 67%, which is considered high in this context. In conclusion, this study demonstrates a clear-cut change towards more tolerant attitudes towards homosexual men and women compared to earlier studies. The reasons for this change is discussed; among factors of importance are anti-discrimination legislation, increased visibility of homosexual people, and that more people currently regard homosexuality as a biologically determined, natural variant of human sexuality than was the case 10 years ago. In accordance, this study gave further support to the notion that those who believe that homosexuality is caused by biological factors have a less restrictive view on homosexuality than do people who hold a psychological view.
The study describes personality traits and the presence of personality disorders and mental disorders in a consecutive series of 130 male prisoners in Swedish jails sentenced for serious criminality. The investigation included a psychiatric examination by means of the Structured Clinical Interview (SCID) as well as information taken from criminal records. Personality assessments were made by means of self-report questionnaires, the Karolinska Scales of Personality (KSP) and the DSM-IV and ICD-10 Personality Disorder Questionnaire (DIP-Q). The most common mental disorders were alcohol and drug abuse/dependence, which were present in 55% of the subjects. Personality disorders, too, were common, being present in 56% of the subjects. In the KSP, high scores were found in scales related to impulsiveness, sensation-seeking, nervous tension and distress, cognitive-social anxiety, hostility and aggression. Very low scores were found in the Socialization scale, reflecting a high degree of psychopathy-related personality traits. Despite the high morbidity, the global level of functioning was unexpectedly high, 66 according to GAF. The male prisoners sentenced for heavy criminality had a high degree of both mental disorders and personality disorders. Furthermore, psychopathy-related personality traits were common.
In smooth muscle, transient subsarcolemma increases in Ca2+ of approximately 200 nM from the sarcoplasmic reticulum activate Ca2+-activated K+ channels (KCa) in the sarcolemma giving rise to spontaneous transient outward currents (STOCs). In the present study we have examined whether (1) STOCs are spatially restricted membrane currents, (2) single KCa channel activity is regulated by changes in bulk average cytosolic Ca2+ concentrations ([Ca2+]c) without concomitant local subsarcolemma Ca2+ changes, and (3) a relationship exists between the voltage-dependent Ca2+ current (ICa) and KCa channel activity. Guinea-pig single colonic myocytes were voltage clamped in the whole cell configuration (to measure macroscopic currents) and bulk average [Ca2+]c measured simultaneously using the dye Fura-2. Single channel activity was also recorded with a second electrode, on the same cell, in the cell-attached mode. KCa activity was identified by reversal potential and conductance measurements. If STOCs are not spatially restricted events but reflect increased KCa channel activity throughout the sarcolemma, the voltage-dependence of single KCa channels should be similar to that of STOCs. Prolonged depolarization (-60 mV to +50 mV) increased [Ca2+]c, the amplitude and frequency of STOCs, and single KCa channel activity. [Ca2+]c peaked around -20 mV. Between -50 and -20 mV, the increase in STOC frequency was markedly voltage-dependent (e-fold for 5 mV depolarization); beyond -20 mV less so. Single KCa channel activity increased about e-fold for a 20 mV depolarization and thus was demonstrably different in this respect from that of STOC activity, evidence consistent with the proposed spatially restricted nature of STOCs. Simultaneous depolarization (3 s) of both the whole cell and the membrane patch, from -70 to 0 mV, elevated [Ca2+]c to about 800 nM and evoked single KCa channel activity, the latter began after about 10 ms, peaked around 100 ms, then declined. On repolarization to -70 mV KCa channel activity ceased abruptly. Depolarization (to 0 mV) of the whole cell only, with the patch transmembrane potential maintained at -70 mV, increased [Ca2+]o to about 800 nM but, importantly, did not increase KCa channel activity. Conversely depolarization (to 0 mV) of the patch alone, the whole cell being maintained at -70 mV, did not alter the bulk [Ca2+]c but evoked single KCa channel activity. The time course of KCa channel activity was remarkably similar to that of ICa suggesting that Ca2+ influx through voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels may serve as a trigger for KCa channel activation. Together these results suggest that STOCs are spatially restricted membrane currents and that KCa channels are sensitive to both depolarization and local subsarcolemma Ca2+ increases but not to alterations in [Ca2+]c.
The blood-brain barrier (BBB) is formed by the endothelial cells lining the brain microvessels. Complex tight junctions linking adjacent endothelial cells make brain capillaries around 100 times tighter than peripheral capillaries to small hydrophilic molecules. As a result, drugs required to act in the brain, including anti-epileptic drugs (AEDs), have generally been made lipophilic, and are thus able to cross the brain endothelium via the lipid membranes. However, such lipophilic drugs are potential substrates for efflux carriers of the BBB, particularly P glycoprotein (Pgp), predominantly located on the endothelial luminal membrane. It is estimated that up to 50% of drug candidates may be substrates for Pgp. The barrier phenotype of the brain endothelium is induced and maintained by chemical factors released by brain cells, particularly perivascular astrocytic end feet. In several neuropathological conditions, the BBB is disturbed, either as a result of pathology of the endothelium, or of the cells responsible for barrier induction and maintenance. During epileptic attacks, there may be transient BBB opening in the epileptogenic focus. There is evidence that under such pathological conditions, 'second line defence' mechanisms in perivascular glia may be up-regulated, including expression of Pgp and other drug efflux transporters. This complicates interpretation of drug resistance in epilepsy, and therapeutic strategies.
Nearly a dozen genes encode different Na channels, sharing a common overall motif but with subtly different amino acid sequences. Physiological signatures have now been established for some Na+ channels and it is clear that, from a functional point of view, Na+ channels are not all the same: different channels can have different physiological characteristics, and they can play different roles in the physiology of excitable cells. Moreover, the expression of Na+ channels within neurons is not a static process. Plasticity of Na+ channel gene expression occurs in the normal nervous system, where it accompanies transitions between different physiological states (e.g. low-frequency versus high-frequency firing states) in some types of neurons. Maladaptive changes in Na+ channel gene expression also occur in some pathological neurons. For example, transection of the peripheral axons of spinal sensory neurons triggers downregulation of some Na+ channel genes and up-regulation of others, resulting in changes in Na+ current expression that produce hyperexcitability, thereby contributing to chronic pain. There is also recent evidence for the expression of normally silent Na+ channel genes in Purkinje cells in experimental models of demyelinating diseases and in a human disease, multiple sclerosis; this dysregulation of Na+ channel expression may interfere with neuronal function in these disorders. The diversity and dynamic nature of Na+ channel expression introduce a high degree of complexity into the nervous system and present challenges for neuroscientists. In addition, they may present therapeutic opportunities as selective modulators for various Na+ channel subtypes become available.
NAD-299 is a selective 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonist that is currently developed as a putative antidepressant drug. [(11)C]NAD-299 was examined in the cynomolgus monkey brain with positron emission tomography (PET). After radioligand injection high accumulation of radioactivity was observed in the frontal and temporal cortex and the raphe nuclei, regions known to contain a high density of 5-HT(1A) receptors. Peak equilibrium appeared already at about 10 min after i.v. injection. Pre-treatment with a high dose of the antagonist WAY-100635 reduced the amount of radioactivity in the cortex and the raphe to the level of the cerebellum. A strong pre-treatment effect could also be achieved using pindolol, a partial agonist at the 5-HT(1A)-receptors. The appearance of labeled metabolites in monkey plasma was measured with HPLC. At 45 minutes after injection 49% (range 27-55%, n = 5) of radioactivity in monkey plasma represented unchanged radioligand. [(11)C]NAD-299 was metabolized to more polar labeled metabolites of which one has the same chromatographic mobility as the descyclobutyl analogue of NAD-299 (NAD-272). The results indicate that [(11)C]NAD-299 has potential as a PET radioligand for studies of 5-HT(1A) receptors in the primate brain.

SUMMARY Public awareness and understanding of the professions of occupational therapy and physical therapy are limited. In this study, we examined perceptions of young school-aged children about occupational therapy and physical therapy as part of a larger grant project funded by the National Institute on Drug Abuse (R25 DA 12168 and R25 DA13522). One hundred three elementary school children (55 boys and 48 girls), grades 3 to 7, from local schools attended a one-day neuroscience and allied health profession exposition held at a local Boys &amp; Girls Club. Children's understanding of occupational therapy and physical therapy was assessed through a pre/post questionnaire prior to and immediately after attending the exposition. At five of the 18 exhibition booths, faculty members and students from occupational therapy and physical therapy introduced and explained what occupational and physical therapists do at their work through interactive demonstrations. The results of the current study revealed that prior to attending the exposition, children's understanding of occupational therapy and physical therapy was limited. On pre-test, children reported they have some understanding of occupational therapy (18.6%) and physical therapy (34.9%). Children's understanding of occupational therapy and physical therapy, however, dramatically increased after the exposition (75.6% vs. 18.6%, 98.9% vs. 34.9%, respectively). Furthermore, the scope and depth of children's understanding also improved considerably. This finding suggests that an interactive neuroscience exposition including occupational therapy and physical therapy is an effective way to promote children's awareness and understanding of the professions. Implications for practice and future research directions are discussed in the study.
Faculty members in the Occupational Therapy Department at Belmont University needed to determine if an alternative teaching method, consisting of lecture and problem-based learning (PBL), was more effective than a traditional lecture method in maximizing student achievement in neuroscience. This study was undertaken to determine if students who participated in an alternative methodology (experimental group) would perform differently on a comprehensive final exam than students who experienced a traditional lecture approach (control group). A second purpose was to determine if the experimental group achieved a greater score on higher-level thinking test questions than the control group. There were two research questions for this study. First, &quot;Will there be a significant difference in the mean final unit test score of the experimental group in comparison with the control group?&quot; Second, &quot;Will there be a significant increase in the mean final unit test score on higher-level thinking items between the experimental and control groups? For research question one, a two-tailed independent samples t-test was used to compare mean test scores of the two groups. Based on a P value of. 846, it was determined that there was not a significant difference in total test scores between the two groups. For research question two, a one-tailed independent samples t-test resulted in a P value of. 491; therefore, it was determined that there was not a significant difference on higher-level thinking test scores between the two groups. However, a bi-modal distribution of the scores for the experimental group suggests that some performed well under PBL conditions while some did not. Potential implications of this bimodal distribution are discussed to assist OT educators in choosing appropriate instructional methodologies. The findings suggest that faculty should continue to explore variables that may affect performance under PBL conditions and achievement in neuroscience.
This is a review of studies that have investigated the proposed rehabilitative benefit of tinted lenses and filters for people with low vision. Currently, eye care practitioners have to rely on marketing literature and anecdotal reports from users when making recommendations for tinted lens or filter use in low vision. Our main aim was to locate a prescribing protocol that was scientifically based and could assist low vision specialists with tinted lens prescribing decisions. We also wanted to determine if previous work had found any tinted lens/task or tinted lens/ocular condition relationships, i.e. were certain tints or filters of use for specific tasks or for specific eye conditions. Another aim was to provide a review of previous research in order to stimulate new work using modern experimental designs. Past studies of tinted lenses and low vision have assessed effects on visual acuity (VA), grating acuity, contrast sensitivity (CS), visual field, adaptation time, glare, photophobia and TV viewing. Objective and subjective outcome measures have been used. However, very little objective evidence has been provided to support anecdotal reports of improvements in visual performance. Many studies are flawed in that they lack controls for investigator bias, and placebo, learning and fatigue effects. Therefore, the use of tinted lenses in low vision remains controversial and eye care practitioners will have to continue to rely on anecdotal evidence to assist them in their prescribing decisions. Suggestions for future research, avoiding some of these experimental shortcomings, are made.
The aim of this study was to determine the cues used to signal avoidance of difficult driving situations and to test the hypothesis that drivers with relatively poor high contrast visual acuity (HCVA) have fewer crashes than drivers with relatively poor normalised low contrast visual acuity (NLCVA). This is because those with poorer HCVA are well aware of their difficulties and avoid dangerous driving situations while those poorer NLCVA are often unaware of the extent of their problem. Age, self-reported situation avoidance and HCVA were collected during a practice based study of 690 drivers. Screening was also carried out on 7254 drivers at various venues, mainly motorway sites, throughout the UK. Age, self-reported situation avoidance and prior crash involvement were recorded and Titmus vision screeners were used to measure HCVA and NLCVA. Situation avoidance increased in reduced visibility conditions and was influenced by age and HCVA. Only half of the drivers used visual cues to signal situation avoidance and most of these drivers used high rather than low contrast cues. A statistical model designed to remove confounding interrelationships between variables showed, for drivers that did not report situation avoidance, that crash involvement decreased for drivers with below average HCVA and increased for those with below average NLCVA. These relationships accounted for less than 1% of the crash variance, so the hypothesis was not strongly supported.
In order to clarify the functional role of glutamate receptors of the gracile nucleus neurons in rats with nerve injury-induced hyperalgesia, pharmacological, electrophysiological and in situ hybridization techniques were used in rats with chronic constriction nerve injury (CCI) of the sciatic nerve. A total of 54 wide dynamic range neurons were recorded from the gracile nucleus in the rats with CCI. Mechanical evoked responses were significantly depressed following application of AMPA receptor antagonist, CNQX, with noxious and non-noxious responses being similarly affected. AP-5, an NMDA receptor antagonist, induced depression of the pressure-evoked response only after application of the 1-microM concentration of this drug. The size of the receptive fields was significantly decreased after CNQX, but not MK-801 or AP-5, application. Afterdischarge was significantly depressed following the application of CNQX (1000 microM). The expression of ionotropic glutamate receptor subunit mRNAs in the gracile nucleus was studied using the in situ hybridization technique. The signals for NMDA subunits, NR2A, -2B and -2C, in the gracile nucleus neurons were not prominent, suggesting a low level expression of functional NMDA receptor complex. AMPA receptor subunits GluR1, -R2, -R3 and -R4 mRNAs were expressed in a large number of gracile nucleus neurons. These data are consistent with the pharmacological results that AMPA receptor antagonists depressed nociceptive neuronal activity, but NMDA receptor antagonists showed limited effects. These results suggest that the ionotropic glutamate receptors, i.e. the AMPA and NMDA receptors, are differentially involved in modulation of the wide dynamic range neuronal activity in the gracile nucleus following peripheral nerve injury.

Satoyoshi syndrome is a rare, slowly progressive disorder of unknown etiology with a poor long-term prognosis. The syndrome consists of the following clinical features: (1) painful, intermittent muscle spasms; (2) alopecia; (3) diarrhea; and (4) skeletal abnormalities in cases of juvenile onset. The age of onset is typically less than 20 years of age, although three adult onset cases had been reported. There had been no case report of Satoyoshi syndrome with strict unilateral presentation. We present a 25-year-old man with progressive unilateral hair loss and muscle spasms. Although previous literature had postulated malabsorption and autoimmune mechanism as pathogenic for Satoyoshi syndrome, the presence of a strictly unilateral presentation argues against those hypotheses. However, these hypotheses should still be considered, as our patient did not fit a typical Satoyoshi syndrome. Therefore, more research is needed to understand the pathophysiology and develop an effective treatment to prevent the progression of the disease.
Mitochondrial ornithine transporter deficiency, or HHH syndrome, is a metabolic disorder resulting in various neurologic symptoms, including mental retardation, spastic paraparesis with pyramidal signs, cerebellar ataxia, and episodic disturbance of consciousness or coma caused by hyperammonemia. Several mutations have been reported in the ORNT1 gene encoding mitochondrial ornithine transporter of patients with this disorder. In this article, we report a new patient, a male 15 years of age, who had typical clinical features of HHH syndrome. Because the patient did not have any of the three mutations previously described in other Japanese patients with HHH syndrome, and the only material available from the patient was peripheral leukocytes, we established a genomic polymerase chain reaction method using intronic primers to amplify every exon of the ORNT1 gene, and we directly sequenced the polymerase chain reaction products. Using this method, we documented a novel mutation in this patient, P126R, and demonstrated that HHH syndrome is genetically heterogeneous, even in the Japanese population.
A tilted furnished room can induce strong visual reorientation illusions in stationary subjects. Supine subjects may perceive themselves upright when the room is tilted 90 degrees so that the visual polarity axis is kept aligned with the subject. This 'upright illusion' was used to induce roll tilt in a truly horizontal, but perceptually vertical, plane. A semistatic tilt profile was applied, in which the tilt angle gradually changed from 0 degrees to 90 degrees, and vice versa. This method produced larger illusory self-tilt than usually found with static tilt of a visual scene. Ten subjects indicated self-tilt by setting a tactile rod to perceived vertical. Six of them experienced the upright illusion and indicated illusory self-tilt with an average gain of about 0.5. This value is smaller than with true self-tilt (0.8), but comparable to the gain of visually induced self-tilt in erect subjects. Apparently, the contribution of nonvisual cues to gravity was independent of the subject's orientation to gravity itself. It therefore seems that the gain of visually induced self-tilt is smaller because of lacking, rather than conflicting, nonvisual cues. A vector analysis is used to discuss the results in terms of relative sensory weightings.

Human subjects misjudge the position of a target that is flashed during a pursuit eye movement. Their judgments are biased in the direction in which the eyes are moving. We investigated whether this bias can be reduced by making the appearance of the flash more predictable. In the normal condition, subjects pursued a moving target that flashed somewhere along its trajectory. After the presentation, they indicated where they had seen the flash. The mislocalisations in this condition were compared to mislocalisations in conditions in which the subjects were given information about when or where the flash would come. This information consisted of giving two warning flashes spaced at equal intervals before the target flash, of giving two warning beeps spaced at equal intervals before the target flash, or of showing the same stimulus twice. Showing the same stimulus twice significantly reduced the mislocalisation. The other conditions did not. We interpret this as indicating that it is not predictability as such that influences the performance, but the fact that the target appears at a spatially cued position. This was supported by a second experiment, in which we examined whether subjects make smaller misjudgments when they have to determine the distance between a target flashed during pursuit and a reference seen previously, than when they have to determine the distance between the flashed target and a reference seen afterwards. This was indeed the case, presumably because the reference provided a spatial cue for the flash when it was presented first. We conclude that a spatial cue reduces the mislocalisation of targets that are flashed during pursuit eye movements. The cue does not have to be exactly at the same position as the flash.
A horizontally moving vertical grating viewed through a diamond-shaped aperture can be made to appear to move either upwards or downwards by introduction of appropriate depth-ordering cues at the boundaries of the aperture (Duncan et al. 2000 Journal of Neuroscience 20 5885-5897). The grating is perceived to move towards (and sliding under) occluding 'near' surfaces, and parallel to 'far' surfaces. Here we show that these depth-ordering cues affect the perceptual interpretation of the motion aftereffect (MAE) as well. After adaptation to unambiguous horizontal motion, the MAE direction deviates from horizontal towards near surfaces. However, the influence of depth-ordering cues on the illusory motion of the MAE is generally less than that seen for 'real' motion. Implications for theories of depth-motion and depth-MAE interactions are discussed.
The completed draft of the human genome sequence has facilitated a revolution in neuroscience research. This sequence information and the development of new technologies used to analyze gene expression on a genomic scale provides a new and powerful means to investigate brain disorders of unknown etiology and to isolate novel drug targets for these disorders. The term functional genomics broadly describes a set of technologies and strategies directed at the problem of determining the function of genes, and understanding how the genome works together to generate whole patterns of biological function. The most powerful of these functional genomics approaches, expression profiling or DNA microarrays, can be used to analyze the expression of thousands of genes simultaneously. The results to date from the application of DNA microarray methods to postmortem diseased human brain tissue, animal models and cell culture models of brain disorders provide an exciting glimpse into the future of this field.
Cytochrome P450 (P450) is a superfamily of enzymes which mediates metabolism of xenobiotics including drugs. Alprazolam, an anti-anxiety agent, is metabolized in rat and human liver by P4503A1 and P4503A4 respectively, to 4-hydroxy alprazolam (4-OHALP, pharmacologically less active) and alpha-hydroxy alprazolam (alpha-OHALP, pharmacologically more active). We examined P450 mediated metabolism of alprazolam by rat and human brain microsomes and observed that the relative amount of alpha-OHALP formed in brain was higher than liver. This biotransformation was mediated by a P450 isoform belonging to P4503A subfamily, which is constitutively expressed in neuronal cells in rat and human brain. The formation of larger amounts of alpha-OHALP in neurons points to local modulation of pharmacological activity in brain, at the site of action of the anti-anxiety drug. Since hydroxy metabolites of alprazolam are hydrophilic and not easily cleared through blood-CSF barrier, alpha-OHALP would potentially have a longer half-life in brain.
The norepinephrine, dopamine and serotonin transporters (NET, DAT and SERT, respectively), limit cellular signaling by recapturing released neurotransmitter, and serve as targets for antidepressants and drugs of abuse, emphasizing the integral role these molecules play in neurotransmission and pathology. This has compelled researchers to search for polymorphisms in monoamine (MA) transporter genes. Studies support linkage and association of MA transporter genetic variation in psychiatric and other complex disorders. Understanding the contribution of MA transporter polymorphisms to human behavior, disease susceptibility and response to pharmacotherapies will involve further progress in linkage and association that will be aided by both definition of highly selective phenotypes and utilization of a large number of polymorphic markers. The relationship of polymorphisms to alterations in transport capacity, likely a complex interaction, involving genetic background, disease state, and medication, will elucidate the means by which MA transporter genetic variability contributes to our individuality.
The goal of the present study was to investigate effects of alcohol intoxication on the object recognition learning task. Male C57BL/6J mice habituated to saline injections and exploratory arena received different doses of ethanol (0, 1.6 or 2.4 g/kg) before or after a 10-min training session. During training, animals were exposed to a small object (a marble or a die). On the next day, during a 10-min testing session, animals were exposed to two objects: the familiar object from the previous day and a novel object. Analysis of behavior during testing showed that mice injected with 0 and 1.6 g/kg of ethanol before training spent more time exploring a novel than a familiar object during testing. In contrast, mice injected with 2.4 g/kg ethanol spent equal amounts of time exploring the novel and the familiar object. Mice injected with this dose of ethanol after training did not show a decreased ratio of object exploration during testing. Analysis of behavior during training showed that mice injected with this dose of ethanol spent less time exploring the object, although their locomotor activity was not decreased. Our results show that in C57BL/6J mice, ethanol intoxication interferes with exploratory activity during object exploration, but not with consolidation of memory.
The opioid peptide, [Met(5)]-enkephalin (termed opioid growth factor, OGF), is an autocrine growth factor that serves as a constitutively active inhibitory agent. OGF crosses the placenta and depresses DNA synthesis in the fetus. The role of OGF in pregnancy and parturition, and the influence exerted on prenatal and neonatal features of the offspring, were studied in rats. Females received daily injections of 10 mg/kg OGF throughout gestation; all offspring were cross-fostered to lactating noninjected dams at birth. No effects on the length of gestation, course of pregnancy, behavior of the pregnant dam, maternal weight gain, or food and water intake throughout gestation were recorded in OGF-treated mothers. Moreover, nociceptive response in these females was not altered by chronic OGF exposure, and no signs of physical dependence or withdrawal could be observed following a challenge by the opioid antagonist naloxone. Litter size and the number of live births per litter of OGF-treated mothers were reduced by 25% from control subjects and a fourfold increase in stillborns was noted for mothers receiving OGF compared to control levels. Histopathologic analysis confirmed the stillborns to have died in utero. OGF-exposed neonates were normal in body weight and crown-to-rump length, but these pups were observed to be lethargic and cyanotic, and had subnormal weights of many organs. Body weights of 10-, 15-, and 21-day-old OGF-exposed rats were reduced 11-27% from control levels. Wet and dry organ weights of the rats maternally subjected to OGF were decreased from control values in six of the eight organs evaluated at 10 days. At weaning, some organs were subnormal in weight. These data lead us to hypothesize that a native opioid peptide-OGF-is integral to certain aspects of maternal, neonatal, and postnatal well-being, and that disruptions in this opioid peptide have serious repercussions on the course of pregnancy and fetal outcome.
Injection of 30 mg/kg of pilocarpine 24 h after systemic injection of lithium (3 mEq/kg) results in overt limbic motor seizures within about 30 min. Results of several experiments indicated that whereas food deprivation or repeated nociceptive stimulation during the previous 24 h decreased seizure onset times (SOTs) by about 11 to 12 min, food restriction, continuous lighting, or, handling during the previous 7 to 14 days increased SOTs by comparable durations. Early handling before weaning but not injections of clomimpramine also decreased SOTs. A difference of 18 min in the means of SOTs was produced by injecting either 1.0 (increased SOT) or 1.5 mg/kg (decreased SOT) of dexamethasome during the previous 24 h. A strong (multiple r=.87) association between SOTs and the amount of damage within five specific thalamic-limbic nuclei was observed. These results, in conjunction with blood corticosterone levels taken before and after induction of the seizures, suggest the neurochemical mechanisms affecting the range in SOTs could involve the adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH)-corticosterone system and influence the amount of post-seizure-induced damage.
It has been suggested that anticholinergic drugs impair immediate memory and working memory in patients with schizophrenia. Opinions remain divided as to the influence of anticholinergic drug withdrawal on the psychopathology and extrapyramidal side effects (EPS) in these patients. In our previous study, regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) was reduced in all regions of patients taking anticholinergic drugs. Anticholinergic drugs were withdrawn in 21 schizophrenic inpatients. Immediate and verbal working memory, rCBF, psychopathology, and EPS were investigated before and after anticholinergic withdrawal. There was improvement in immediate memory, verbal working memory, and psychopathology, as well as an increase in rCBF after withdrawal from anticholinergic drugs. EPS showed no significant changes. Factors that may predict the improvement of immediate memory after withdrawal of anticholinergic drugs are more severe baseline psychopathology and use of a higher anticholinergic drug dose at baseline. Improvement of working memory may be predicted by a higher baseline rCBF in the left anterior cerebral artery region. Withdrawal from anticholinergics should be considered in schizophrenic patients, and it is important to taper these drugs over at least four weeks.
Pharmacological analysis alone has failed to clarify the role of the three alpha(1)-adrenoceptor subtypes in modulating vascular tone, due to a lack of sufficiently selective antagonists, particularly for the alpha (1B)-adrenoceptor, and the complexity when three receptor subtypes are potentially activated by the same agonist. We adopted a combined genetics/ pharmacology strategy based on the alpha(1B)-adrenoceptor knockout (KO) mouse. The potency of three alpha(1)-adrenoceptor antagonists vs. phenylephrine was tested in aorta, carotid, mesenteric, and caudal isolated arteries from KO and wild-type (WT) mice. In the KO mouse the pharmacology became straightforward, showing alpha(1D) in two major conducting arteries (aorta and carotid) and alpha(1A) in two distributing arteries (mesenteric and caudal). By combining antagonist pharmacology and genetics, we provide a simplified analysis of alpha(1)-mediated vasoconstriction, demonstrating that alpha(1D) and alpha(1A) are the major subtypes involved in vasoconstriction, with a minor but definite contribution from alpha(1B) in every vessel.
Changes in extracellular space (ECS) diffusion parameters, DC potentials and extracellular potassium concentration were studied during single and repeated cortical spreading depressions (SD) in 13-15 (P13-15), 21 (P21) and 90-day-old (adult) Wistar rats. The real-time iontophoretic method using tetramethylammonium (TMA+)-selective microelectrodes was employed to measure three ECS parameters in the somatosensory cortex: the ECS volume fraction alpha (alpha = ECS volume/total tissue volume), ECS tortuosity lambda (increase in diffusion path length) and the nonspecific TMA+ uptake k'. SD was elicited by needle prick. SD was significantly longer at P13-15 than at P21 and in adults. During SD, alpha in all age groups decreased from 0.21-0.23 to 0.05-0.09; lambda increased from 1.55-1.65 to 1.95-2.07. Ten minutes after SD, alpha (in adults) and lambda (all age groups) increased compared to controls. This increase persisted even 1 hour after SD. When SD was repeated at 1 hour intervals, both alpha and lambda showed a gradual cumulative increase with SD repetition. Our study also shows that cortical SD is, as early as P13, accompanied by severe ECS shrinkage and increased diffusion path length (tortuosity) with values similar to adults, followed by a long-lasting increase in ECS volume and tortuosity when compared to pre-SD values.
Over the last few decades, there have been considerable improvements in the outcome of stroke patients both as regards mortality and disability. At least some of these improvements can be attributed to better organization of services and improved rehabilitation. Many patients, however, remain severely disabled and we will need to develop new strategies in which the focus will be on reversing impairments rather than simply helping patients to adapt to unaltered impairments. For this to happen, neurological rehabilitation research will have to develop therapies that have a clearly defined rationale and are rooted in neurosciences, are clinically described, are addressed to a well-characterized target population and are evaluated using appropriate outcome measures. Few studies at present meet all these criteria. The recent revolution in our understanding of the nervous system as being soft-wired, of the potential for recovery through reorganization and of the central role of afferent information associated with normal activity is ground for optimism and indicates the direction in which future therapies should be sought. The paper considers some approaches to providing appropriate afferent information, including inputs such as that from electrotherapy, novel approaches to assisted activity and constraint-induced therapy. We are on the verge of a revolution in neurological rehabilitation. If we exploit the new understanding of the nervous system arising from basic neurosciences in developing and evaluating therapies we should be able to build on the achievements of the last few decades so that fewer of our patients have to carry the burden of severe disability.
We have recently reported the presence of aromatase P450 in the rat hypophysis. This enzyme is responsible for the aromatization of testosterone to estradiol. Since the induction of prolactinomas has been demonstrated in the rat following chronic treatment with estradiol, the aim of the present study was to analyze whether a relationship exists between the presence of pituitary aromatase and the appearance of spontaneous prolactinomas in aged rats. Of a series of 90 adenomas studied, 53% showed prolactin immunoreactive cells and were classified as prolactinomas; only 33% of the adenomas were pure prolactinomas and the other 20% were multi-hormonal protactinomas. Moreover, 60% of the adenomas were aromatase-positive tumors. Interestingly, 100% of the pure prolactinomas were aromatase-positive while only 60% of the multi-hormonal prolactinomas expressed the enzyme. Western blotting with anti-aromatase antibodies revealed a 3.8-fold increase in expression of aromatase in pituitary tumors as compared to normal rat pituitary gland. Double immunohistochemical labeling detected the coexistence of prolactin and aromatase P450 in prolactinoma cells. ACTH- and LH-positive adenomas were considered as controls; only multi-hormonal ACTH and LH tumors display aromatase-positive cells and all of these also contained prolactin-positive cells. Our results demonstrate for the first time that aromatase is expressed in pituitary adenomas and that it is related to the functional nature of the tumor, especially in the case of pure prolactinomas, suggesting the possibility that an abnormally high conversion of testosterone into estradiol in pituitary cells may contribute to the genesis of spontaneous prolactinomas in aged rats.
It has been known for sometime that neurotransmission in the gastrointestinal tract is complex and involves multiple transmitters, receptors and intracellular signaling mechanisms. Studies of these diverse mechanisms have focused on GPCRs and slow synaptic transmission. It is now apparent that diversity in neurotransmission in the gut extends to multiple ligand-gated ion channels and fast synaptic transmission. Acetylcholine acting at nAChRs is the predominant fast excitatory synaptic transmitter in the autonomic nervous system. However, myenteric neurons also use noncholinergic mechanisms of fast synaptic transmission. ATP acting at P2X receptors is one noncholinergic fast excitatory synaptic transmitter. Noncholinergic mechanisms of fast excitatory synaptic transmission may provide new targets for drugs that could be useful in the treatment of gastrointestinal motility disorders.
We hypothesized that Tourette's syndrome (TS) patients would display abnormal control of saccades because of overlap between brain areas suspected in TS pathophysiology and those involved saccade control. Subjects were required to look toward (pro-saccade) or away from (anti-saccade) a visual target. Saccadic reaction times were elevated among TS subjects in all tasks. The occurrence of reflexive pro-saccades in the immediate anti-saccade task was normal, suggesting that the ability to inhibit reflexive saccades was not impaired in TS. However, timing errors (eye movements made prior to GO signal in delayed saccade tasks) were increased in TS indicating that ability to inhibit or delay planned motor programs is significantly impaired in TS.
To reach for an object the brain must transform visual input from the eye into motor output of the arm. Recent neurophysiological experiments have shown that this transformation maps onto a network of brain areas including the posterior parietal (PPC) and premotor (PMC) cortices. In this chapter, we review evidence from our own experiments which demonstrate that this network can only partially complete the transformation when the eye and limb movement amplitudes are dissociated. We also discuss the effects of disrupting either the PPC or PMC using transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) on the ability to carry out the transformation successfully.
The spatial-temporal allocation of attention during smooth pursuit eye movements is poorly understood. In this chapter we review evidence showing that attention contributes to both saccades and smooth pursuit. We then discuss results from our own recent studies using a dual-task paradigm in which subjects pursued a moving stimulus and pressed a button when targets appeared in the periphery. The results from these studies are consistent with the hypothesis that the allocation of attention is biased to a location just in front of the pursuit stimulus and that this bias can be altered by pursuit velocity.
The most important factor allowing the generation of pursuit eye movements prior to target onset is confidence in the likelihood of imminent target appearance. We show how these anticipatory pursuit responses are essentially ballistic motor primitives and how the signal that drives them in normally defined by stored information concerning target speed, duration and direction. But we also show how static cues may be used to grade the level of these motor primitives 'on-line'. We further demonstrate that, when concatenated, these graded motor primitives can be rapidly combined to form predictive smooth movement trajectories in response to complex multi-ramp sequences.
Recent change detection research demonstrates impressively that we do not retain and fuse the pictorial content of successive fixations. This raises two distinct issues: (1) when and how is point-by-point information lost or replaced? and (2) might more abstract information be extracted and retained from fixations? In this chapter I explore both of these issues. I consider the evidence for a very short-term richly detailed visual representation of the current target of fixation that survives the saccade but is overwritten by the content of each new fixation shortly after it begins. The possibility of abstract representations of the visual surroundings is then discussed. Under conditions of competitive, parallel processing, as are present in real life situations, multiple types of information are extracted and retained from complex natural scenes. Time courses for extraction vary between different types of information. The inclusion of eye movement data reveals a crucial role for fixations in information extraction. The data suggest that information assimilation into the representations tested here is dominated by the fovea and is integrated and accumulated from multiple foveations. From these studies we are able to construct a rudimentary framework, in which representational faithfulness and richness depend upon fixation history of that part of the visual scene, thus producing an efficient and potentially task-specific representation.
Recent neuroanatomical, neurophysiological, clinical, and brain imaging studies have generated a wealth of data describing the neural control of saccadic eye movements and visual fixation. These studies have identified many of the cortical and subcortical structures involved in controlling the behavior. Critical nodes in the network include regions of the parietal and frontal cortices, basal ganglia, thalamus, superior colliculus, cerebellum, and brainstem reticular formation. Specific functions are likely not localized to only one brain area, but rather, they may be distributed across multiple areas. This commentary is used to review briefly the neural circuitry controlling saccadic eye movements and visual fixation.
By the time you have reached this point, your daily count of alternating saccades and fixations will have increased considerably. So too will have your understanding of the dynamic interactions model. In the superior colliculi, visual fixation and saccadic initiation may be viewed as independent motor plans that compete for dominance across the intermediate layers. Extrinsic input modifies a point location on the retinotopic motor map that is shaped into a motor plan through the intrinsic circuitry of the superior colliculi. Independent motor plans compete for selection in a push-pull fashion and when a saccadic plan ultimately reaches threshold, it produces a strong burst of action potentials that shuts down the remaining regions of the intermediate layers. Modifying the activity of the intermediate layers changes these dynamic interactions in predictable ways. Enhancing the activity of one region facilitates nearby locations and inhibits distant locations. Diminishing the activity of one region inhibits nearby locations and facilitates distant locations. Such effects have been demonstrated in the neurophysiological activity of single cells (Munoz and Istvan, 1998; Olivier et al., 1999) and in behavior (Hikosaka and Wurtz, 1985; Munoz and Wurtz, 1993b). In addition to explaining visual fixation and saccadic initiation during basic saccadic tasks, the dynamic interactions model can explain changes in the timing of saccadic initiation that are observed when this task is modified. Namely, the gap effect, or decreased saccadic reaction times as a consequence of a gap period, occurs because removing fixation decreases the activity of fixation regions and, correspondingly, increases the excitability of saccadic regions. Express saccades, are a special instance of such dynamic interactions, in which decreased fixation activity and heightened motor preparation signals cause the target-related activity to be translated into a saccadic signal immediately. Finally, the slowing of saccadic initiation for antisaccades, can be interpreted as the consequence of multiple competing signals across the intermediate layers. It should be emphasized that the dynamic interactions that we have described in this chapter are not limited to the superior colliculi. On the contrary, similar interactions take place at many levels of the neuraxis (Moschovakis et al., 1996; Leigh and Zee, 1999; Schall and Thompson, 1999; Hikosaka et al., 2000; Munoz et al., 2000; Glimcher, 2001; Scudder et al., 2002). At this juncture, however, the dynamic interactions involved in producing visual fixation and saccadic initiation are better understood in the superior colliculi because of its well-organized motor map and its well-characterized neuronal elements. Although we are a long way from understanding how the brain controls visual fixation and saccadic initiation, we have made substantial progress in understanding these behaviors in the superior colliculi.



Unlike mammals, lower vertebrates can regenerate their optic nerves and certain other CNS pathways throughout life. To identify the molecular bases of this phenomenon, we developed a cell culture model and found that goldfish retinal ganglion cells will regenerate their axons in response to the purine nucleoside inosine. Inosine acts through a direct intracellular mechanism and induces many of the changes in gene expression that underlie regenerative growth in vivo, e.g., upregulation of GAP-43, T alpha-1 tubulin, and the cell-adhesion molecule, L1. N-kinase, a 47-49-kDa serine-threonine kinase, may mediate the effects of inosine and serve as part of the modular signal transduction pathway that controls axon growth. In vivo, inosine stimulates extensive axon growth in the mature rat corticospinal tract. Following unilateral transection of the corticospinal tract, inosine applied to the intact sensorimotor cortex stimulated layer 5 pyramidal cells to upregulate GAP-43 expression and to sprout axon collaterals. These collaterals crossed the midline at the level of the cervical enlargement and reinnervated regions whose normal connections had been served. Further understanding of the molecular changes that lie upstream and downstream of N-kinase may lead to new insights into the control of axon growth and to novel methods to improve functional outcome in patients with CNS injury.
This review of ECM molecules shows quite clearly the function of the ECM in development but more importantly in the mature CNS after injury. Most of the proteoglycans, especially the large CS-PGs, are able to inhibit neurite outgrowth and in vivo experiments are now in progress to specifically inhibit these important molecules. The nature of growth promoter ECM molecules in the CNS after injury, either within or distant from the injury is now becoming better appreciated and we suggest that the laminin family should be important targets for exploration. Indeed, a better understanding of the interaction of laminin with those ECM components that are inhibitory is a clear goal for the future. Our ultimate aim must be to change the balance of factors at lesion sites to allow the more permissive environment after CNS injury to predominate.
Earlier studies suggested that while after spinal cord lesions and transplants at birth, the transplants serve both as a bridge and as a relay to restore supraspinal input caudal to the injury (Bregman, 1994), after injury in the adult the spinal cord transplants serve as a relay, but not as a bridge. We show here, that after complete spinal cord transection in adult rats, delayed spinal cord transplants and exogenous neurotrophic factors, the transplants can also serve as a bridge to restore supraspinal input (Fig. 9). We demonstrate here that when the delivery of transplants and neurotrophins are delayed until 2 weeks after spinal cord transection, the amount of axonal growth and the amount of recovery of function are dramatically increased. Under these conditions, both supraspinal and propriospinal projections to the host spinal cord caudal to the transection are reestablished. The growth of supraspinal axons across the transplant and back into the host spinal cord caudal to the lesion was dependent upon the presence of exogenous neurotrophic support. Without the neurotrophins, only propriospinal axons were able to re-establish connections across the transplant. Studies using peripheral nerve or Schwann cell grafts have shown that some anatomical connectivity can be restored across the injury site, particularly under the influence of neurotrophins (Xu et al., 1995a,b; Cheng et al., 1996; Ye and Houle, 1997). Without neurotrophin treatment, brainstem axons do not enter [figure: see text] the graft (Xu et al., 1995a,b; Cheng et al., 1996; Ye and Houle, 1997). Similarly, cells genetically modified to secrete neurotrophins and transplanted into the spinal cord influence the axonal growth of specific populations of spinally projecting neurons (Tuszynski et al., 1996, 1997; Grill et al., 1997; Blesch and Tuszynski, 1997). Taken together, these studies support a role for neurotrophic factors in the repair of the mature CNS. The regrowth of supraspinal and propriospinal input across the transection site was associated with consistent improvements in hindlimb locomotor function. Animals performed alternating and reciprocal hindlimb stepping with plantar foot contact to the treadmill or stair during ascension. Furthermore, they acquired hindlimb weight support and demonstrated appropriate postural control for balance and equilibrium of all four limbs. After spinal cord injury in the adult, the circuitry underlying rhythmic alternating stepping movements is still present within the spinal cord caudal to the lesion, but is now devoid of supraspinal control. We show here that restoring even relatively small amounts of input allows supraspinal neurons to access the spinal cord circuitry. Removing the re-established supraspinal input after recovery (by retransection rostral to the transplant) abolished the recovery and abolished the serotonergic fibers within the transplant and spinal cord caudal to the transplant. This suggests that at least some of the recovery observed is due to re-establishing supraspinal input across the transplant, rather than a diffuse influence of the transplant on motor recovery. It is unlikely, however, that the greater recovery of function in animals that received delayed transplant and neurotrophins is due solely to the restoration of supraspinal input. Recent work by Ribotta et al. (2000) suggests that segmental plasticity within the spinal cord contributes to weight support and bilateral foot placement after spinal cord transection. This recovery of function occurs after transplants of fetal raphe cells into the adult spinal cord transected at T11. Recovery of function appears to require innervation of the L1-L2 segments with serotonergic fibers, and importantly, animals require external stimulation (tail pinch) to elicit the behavior. In the current study, animals with transection only did not develop stepping overground or on the treadmill without tail pinch, although the transplant and neurotrophin-treated groups did so without external stimuli. Therefore both reorganization of the segmental circuitry and partial restoration of supraspinal input presumably interact to yield the improvements in motor function observed. It is unlikely that the recovery of skilled forelimb movement observed can be mediated solely by reorganization of segmental spinal cord circuitry. We suggest that the restoration of supraspinal input contributes to the recovery observed. It is likely that after CNS injury, reorganization occurs both within the spinal cord and at supraspinal levels, and together contribute to the recovery of automatic and skilled forelimb function and of locomotion. In summary, the therapeutic intervention of tissue transplantation and exogenous neurotrophin support leads to improvements in supraspinal and propriospinal input across the transplant into the host caudal cord and a concomitant improvement in locomotor function. Paradoxically, delaying these interventions for several weeks after a spinal cord transection leads to dramatic improvements in recovery of function and a concomitant restoration of supraspinal input into the host caudal spinal cord. These findings suggest that opportunity for intervention after spinal cord injury may be far greater than originally envisioned, and that CNS neurons with long-standing injuries may be able to re-initiate growth leading to improvement in motor function.
Most human spinal cord injuries involve contusions of the spinal cord. Many investigators have long used weight-drop contusion animal models to study the pathophysiology and genetic responses of spinal cord injury. All spinal cord injury therapies tested to date in clinical trial were validated in such models. In recent years, the trend has been towards use of rats for spinal cord injury studies. The MASCIS Impactor is a well-standardized rat spinal cord contusion model that produces very consistent graded spinal cord damage that linearly predicts 24-h lesion volumes, 6-week white matter sparing, and locomotor recovery in rats. All aspects of the model, including anesthesia for male and female rats, age rather than body weight criteria, and arterial blood gases were empirically selected to enhance the consistency of injury.
Goal-directed movements of the limbs involve the coordinated activation of dozens of muscles. The neural signals activating these muscles are organized at spinal and supraspinal levels, the end result being trains of action potentials delivered to muscles by ensembles of spinal motoneurons (MNs). A new modelling approach has allowed us to visualize the activity of MNs controlling cat hindlimb locomotion. This reveals a rostrocaudal oscillation of MN activity distributed over about 30 mm of the lumbosacral spinal cord. The coordination and topographical distribution of MN pools thus revealed put an interesting perspective on the restoration of motor function with regeneration and neuroprosthetic techniques. Recent progress in the area of intraspinal microstimulation (ISMS) is reviewed, including the synthesis of locomotor movements with a small number of implanted microwires, eliciting movements after a spinal transection and facilitating weak voluntary movements with subliminal ISMS. We suggest that neuroprostheses may be useful in maximizing the benefits of neural regeneration in the future.


Current treatments for acute spinal cord injury are based on animal models of human spinal cord injury (SCI). These models have shown that the initial traumatic injury to cord tissue is followed by a long period of secondary injury that includes a number of cellular and biochemical cascades. These secondary injury processes are potential targets for therapies. Continued refinement of rat and mouse models of SCI, along with more detailed analyses of the biology of the lesion in these models, points to both necrotic and apoptotic mechanisms of cell death after SCI. In this chapter, we review recent evidence for long-term apoptotic death of oligodendrocytes in long tracts undergoing Wallerian degeneration following SCI. This process appears to be related closely to activation of microglial cells. It is has been thought that microglial cells might be the source of cytotoxic cytokines, such as tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), that kill oligodendrocytes. However, more recent evidence in vivo suggests that TNF-alpha by itself may not induce necrosis or apoptosis in oligodendrocytes. We review data that suggests other possible pathways for apoptosis, such as the neurotrophin receptor p75 which is expressed in both neurons and oligodendrocytes after SCI in rats and mice. In addition, it appears that microglial activation and TNF-alpha may be important in acute SCI. Ninety minutes after a moderate contusion lesion, microglia are activated and surround dying neurons. In an 'atraumatic' model of SCI, we have now shown that TNF-alpha appears to greatly potentiate cell death mediated by glutamate receptors. These studies emphasize that multiple mechanisms and interactions contribute to secondary injury after SCI. Continued study of both contusion models and other new approaches to studying these mechanisms will be needed to maximize strategies for acute and chronic therapies, and for neural repair.
This article reviews the use of therapeutic and functional electrical stimulation in subjects after a spinal cord injury (SCI). Muscles become much weaker and more fatigable, while bone density decreases dramatically after SCI. Therapeutic stimulation of paralyzed muscles for about 1 h/day can reverse the atrophic changes and markedly increase muscle strength and endurance as well as bone density. Functional electrical stimulation can also improve the speed and efficiency of walking in people with an incomplete SCI. Finally, a modified wheelchair is described in which electrical stimulation or residual voluntary activation of leg muscles can produce movements of a footrest that is coupled to the wheels. The wheelchair can provide greater mobility and fitness to persons who are not functional walkers and currently use their arms to propel a wheelchair.
In the central nervous system, information is traditionally thought to flow from synapses to dendrites to soma. Recent evidence, however, suggests that dendrites play more of an active role in signal processing than previously thought. This review will examine the evidence in support of dendritic spikes in magnocellular neurons. Additionally, it will shed light on a number of important roles these spikes may play in regulating the excitability of magnocellular neurons.
Rat magnocellular neurosecretory cells (MNCs) show an intrinsic sensitivity to acute changes in fluid osmolality. Experiments in acutely isolated supraoptic MNCs have shown that these responses are due to in part to the cell volume-dependent modulation of gadolinium-sensitive 33 pS stretch-inactivated cation (SIC) channels. Previous studies in vivo have shown that the slope (i.e. gain) of the 'osmosensory' relation between VP release and plasma osmolality can be increased or decreased under various physiological and pathological conditions. Here, we review recent work that shows how changes in external [Na] and excitatory neuropeptides such as angiotensin II (Ang II), cholecystokinin (CCK) and neurotensin (NT), may influence osmosensory gain in acutely isolated MNCs. Whole-cell and single-channel recording experiments have revealed that changes in external Na cause proportional changes in osmosensory gain as a result of modified SIC channel permeability and not by affecting mechanotransduction. In contrast, Ang II, CCK, or NT appear to convergently, and directly, stimulate the osmosensory cation conductance in MNCs. Preliminary analysis in current clamp further suggests that osmosensory gain may be increased upon exposure to these excitatory peptides. Whether such mechanisms contribute to the modulation of osmosensory gain in vivo remains to be established.
Oxytocin neurons in the supraoptic nucleus (SON) exhibit marked neuronal plasticity during each reproductive cycle. We have previously shown that this neuronal plasticity includes GABAA receptor subunit switching around the time of parturition. Here we focus on addition plasticity in short-term regulatory mechanisms of postsynaptic receptor function before and after parturition, i.e. alterations in metabotropic and allosteric modulation of GABAA receptor activity. Both short- and long-term regulation of the GABAA receptor function affects the electrical behaviour of the oxytocin neurons (Brussaard and Herbison, 2000); however, their causal linkage until recently remained unclear. Non-genomic gonadal steroid feedback to oxytocin neurons is mediated via the neurosteroid allopregnanolone (3 alpha-OH-DHP) that is an allosteric modulator of postsynaptic GABAA receptors. We recently found evidence to support the idea that (1) neurosteroids not only potentiate GABAA receptor function but also prevent its suppression by PKC (Brussaard et al., 2000), and (2) that neurosteroid sensitivity of GABAA receptor is not regulated by subunit switching, but instead, is dependent on the balance between endogenous phosphatase and PKC activity (Koksma et al., 2002). Thus, before pregnancy, the GABAA receptors are sensitive to 3 alpha-OH-DHP, due to a constitutively high level of phosphatase activity. At parturition, endogenous release of oxytocin within the SON shifts the intracellular balance towards a higher level of phosphorylation, leading to 3 alpha-OH-DHP insensitivity of the GABAA receptors. Here we discuss the putative mechanisms underlying these changes in receptor physiology, their causal relations and the functional significance for the hormonal output.
The magnocellular oxytocin (OT) and vasopressin (VP) neurons of the hypothalamo-neurohypophysial system are exceptional cell biological models to study mechanisms of cell-specific gene expression and neurosecretion of neuropeptides in the central nervous system. Single cell differential gene expression experiments have further defined these phenotypes by identifying novel and distinct regulatory molecules in these neurons. Transgenic mouse studies have led to the intergenic region (IGR) hypothesis, which states that the DNA sequences between the OT- and VP-genes contain critical enhancer sites for their cell-specific expression. The recent cloning and sequencing of the human IGR, and its comparison with the mouse IGR sequence has identified conserved sequences as putative, cell-specific enhancer sites which are now being evaluated by biolistic transfections of organotypic hypothalamic cultures. With these data, it is possible to target the gene expression of specific molecules to magnocellular neurons both in vivo and in vitro, in order to perturb and/or visualize neurosecretory and other processes.








A view that is emerging is that the brain has multiple forms of plasticity that must be governed, at least in part, by independent mechanisms. This view is illustrated by: (1) the apparent separate governance of some non-neural changes by activity, in contrast to synaptic changes driven by learning; (2) the apparent independence of different kinds of synaptic changes that occur in response to the learning aspects of training; (3) the occurrence of separate patterns of synaptic plasticity in the same system in response to different task demands; and (4) apparent dissociations between behaviorally induced synaptogenesis and LTP. The historical focus of research and theory in areas ranging from learning and memory to experiential modulation of brain development has been heavily upon synaptic plasticity since shortly after the discovery of the synapse. Based upon available data, it could be argued that: (1) synaptic, and even neuronal, plasticity is but a small fraction of the range of changes that occur in response to experience; and (2) we are just beginning to understand the importance of these other forms of brain plasticity. Appreciation of this aspect of the brain's adaptive process may allow us to better understand the capacity of the brain to tailor a particular set of changes to the demands of the specific experiences that generated them.

Cajal described both the morphology and plasticity of neurons. He summarized the structure of neurons as composed of membrane, protoplasm, Golgi apparatus, nucleus, spongioplasm and neurofibrils (cytoskeleton). He initially considered the cytoskeleton as absorbing excitation energy and forming a &quot;conductive pathway in the protoplasm&quot; within the neuron. Later, he viewed the neurofibrillary threads as independent, living entities and called them neurobiones. Cajal recognized neuroplasticity in development, memory, sleep, injury and dementia, as well as after exposure to cold and starvation. He noted cytoskeletal changes during these events. However, he did not causatively connect the plastic changes in neurons with the changes in cytoskeleton. Finally, Cajal proposed a theory of chemoaffinity in 1892, and modified his neurotropic theory over the next 40 years. Today we accept that changes in the cytoskeleton produce changes in neuronal morphology. The properties of the cytoskeleton and neurobione as described by Cajal are similar to those of microtubules. These long intraneuronal neurofibrils are polymers of the protein tubulin and, whilst not being living entities, are highly dynamic, sensitive to environmental stimuli, and stabilized by microtubule associated proteins (MAPs). Furthermore, Cajal was very specific in his characterization of the neurotropic factor derived from Schwann cells. Initially, he thought the chemicals attracted the axonal fibers, but later he wrote that the factor was not attractant but rather was involved in assimilation, growth and ramifications. The neurotropic hypothesis described by Cajal in Degeneration and Regeneration in the Nervous System is more similar to a neurite extension factor (NEF) than to a neurotrophic growth factor or specific chemoaffinity (attractant) molecule. S-100 beta is the major NEF found in PNS Schwann cells and CNS astroglial cells. In summary, the views of Cajal on neuroplasticity, its frequency and function, agree with the modern hypothesis of neuronal instability. This concept states that MAPs regulate microtubule stability by a S-100 beta sensitive phosphorylation processes. Serotonin, by acting on the astroglial 5-HT1A receptor, releases S-100 beta and regulates neuronal morphology and apoptosis. This neuronal-glial connection provides a fresh view for linking neuroplasticity, mental illness, and memory with changes in the cytoskeleton.

Throughout his life and his work, Cajal realized the potential of the neurons he was so carefully studying and how, grouped in systems, they served the special senses and the maintenance and proper functioning of the organism. Over the past 25 years, major depression and suicide have come to be recognized as associated with alteration in serotonergic neurons and their target receptors. We examined whether prefrontal cortical (PFC) serotonin transporter sites (SERT) differ in major depression and suicide by quantitative receptor autoradiography. Clinical information was obtained by psychological autopsy. We found regionally distinct neurobiological correlates of major depression and suicide. A diffuse reduction of SERT binding throughout the dorsoventral extent of the PFC in major depression may reflect a widespread impairment of serotonergic function consistent with the range of psychopathology in major depression. The localized reduction in SERT binding in ventral PFC found in suicide victims may reflect reduced serotonin input to that brain region, underlying the predisposition to act on suicidal thoughts. It is conceivable that Cajal envisioned that psychiatric illness would be the result of &quot;psychic neuron&quot; pathophysiology. Today's informed psychiatrists will not be able to deny the role of the brain in the mental ailments that afflict their patients.
About 100 years ago, Santiago Ramn y Cajal reported that sensory fibers entering the spinal cord have ascending and descending branches, and that each of them sends collaterals to the gray matter where they have profuse ramifications. To him this was a fundamental discovery and proposed that the intraspinal branches of the sensory fibers were &quot;centripetal conductors by which sensory excitation is propagated to the various neurons in the gray matter&quot;. In addition, he assumed that &quot;conduction of excitation within the intraspinal arborizations of the afferent fibers would be proportional to the diameters of the conductors&quot;, and that excitation would preferentially flow through the coarsest branches. The invariability of some elementary reflexes such as the knee jerk would be the result of a long history of plastic adaptations and natural selection of the safest neuronal organizations. There is now evidence suggesting that in the adult cat, the intraspinal branches of sensory fibers are not hard wired routes that diverge excitation to spinal neurons in an invariable manner, but rather dynamic pathways where excitation flow can be centrally addressed to reach specific neuronal targets. This central control of information flow is achieved by means of specific sets of GABAergic interneurons that produce primary afferent depolarization (PAD) via axo-axonic synapses and reduce transmitter release (presynaptic inhibition). The PAD produced by single, or by small groups of GABAergic interneurons in group I muscle afferents, can remain confined to some sets of intraspinal arborizations of the afferent fibers and not spread to nearby collaterals. In muscle spindle afferents this local character of PAD allows cutaneous and descending inputs to differentially inhibit the PAD in segmental and ascending collaterals of individual fibers, which may be an effective way to decouple the information flow arising from common sensory inputs. This feature appears to play an important role in the selection of information flow in muscle spindles that occurs at the onset of voluntary contractions in humans.
In this chapter we provide an extensive review of 100 years of research on the stability of neurons in the mammalian brain, with special emphasis on humans. Although Cajal formulated the Neuronal Doctrine, he was wrong in his beliefs that adult neurogenesis did not occur and adult neurons are dying throughout life. These two beliefs became accepted &quot;common knowledge&quot; and have shaped much of neuroscience research and provided much of the basis for clinical treatment of age-related brain diseases. In this review, we consider adult neurogenesis from a historical and evolutionary perspective. It is concluded, that while adult neurogenesis is a factor in the dynamics of the dentate gyrus and olfactory bulb, it is probably not a major factor during the life-span in most brain areas. Likewise, the acceptance of neuronal death as an explanation for normal age-related senility is challenged with evidence collected over the last fifty years. Much of the problem in changing this common belief of dying neurons was the inadequacies of neuronal counting methods. In this review we discuss in detail implications of recent improvements in neuronal quantification. We conclude: First, age-related neuronal atrophy is the major factor in functional deterioration of existing neurons and could be slowed down, or even reversed by various pharmacological interventions. Second, in most cases neuronal degeneration during aging is a pathology that in principle may be avoided. Third, loss of myelin and of the white matter is more frequent and important than the limited neuronal death in normal aging.
Without the aid of modern techniques Cajal speculated that cells in the visual cortex were connected in circuits. From Cajal's time until fairly recently, the flow of information within the cells and circuits of visual cortex has been described as progressing from input to output, from sensation to action. In this chapter we argue that a paradigm shift in our concept of the visual cortical neuron is under way. The most important change in our view concerns the neuron's functional role. Visual cortical neurons do not have static functional signatures but instead function dynamically depending on the ongoing activity of the networks to which they belong. These networks are not merely top-down or bottom-up unidirectional transmission lines, but rather represent machinery that uses recurrent information and is dynamic and highly adaptable. With the advancement of technology for analyzing the conversations of multiple neurons at many levels in the visual system and higher resolution imaging, we predict that the paradigm shift will progress to the point where neurons are no longer viewed as independent processing units but as members of subsets of networks where their role is mapped in space-time coordinates in relationship to the other neuronal members. This view moves us far from Cajal's original views of the neuron. Nevertheless, we believe that understanding the basic morphology and wiring of networks will continue to contribute to our overall understanding of the visual cortex.
Computational anatomical studies suggest that specific clusters of projection neurons in the basal forebrain together with specific prefrontal and posterior cortical associational regions constitute distributed parts of functional parallel circuits. The predictable sequence of cell clusters consisting of various types of noncholinergic cell populations in the basal forebrain suggests further subdivisions within these circuits. It is possible that similar to the parallel basal ganglia circuits (Alexander and Crutcher, 1990), large number of specialized channels and sub-channels exist within this triangular circuitry that permit parallel, multilevel processing concurrently. The location and size of the active modules may temporarily vary according to the prevalence of state-related diffuse ascending brain stem and specific telencephalic inputs. From this latter group of afferents, the prefrontal input may function as an external threshold control which allocates attentional resources via the basal forebrain to distributed cortical processes in a selective, self-regulatory fashion.
Cajal's many contributions to understanding the thalamus have been hidden by his body of work on the cerebral cortex. He delineated many thalamic nuclei in rodents, defined afferent fibers, thalamocortical relay neurons and interneurons, was first to demonstrate thalamocortical fibers and their terminations in the cortex, and recognized the feed-back provided by corticothalamic fibers. This presentation outlines modern methods for identifying classes of thalamic neurons, their chemical characteristics, synaptology and differential connections, and describes the intrinsic circuitry of the thalamus, showing how interactions between GABAergic cells of the reticular nucleus and glutamatergic relay cells underlie rhythmic activities of neurons in the thalamo-cortico-thalamic network, activities associated with changes in the conscious state, and which are generated and maintained by the corticothalamic projection. Corticothalamic fibers interact with reticular nucleus cells and relay cells through NMDA, AMPA and metabotropic receptors while interactions between reticular nucleus cells and relay cells are mediated by GABAA and GABAB receptors. Differing strengths of synaptic input to the two cell types, from which oscillatory behavior commences, depend upon differential expression at individual synapses of specific AMPA receptor subunits which modulate excitatory postsynaptic conductances. Two classes of relay cells can be distinguished by differential staining for calbindin and parvalbumin. The first forms a matrix in the thalamus, unconstrained by nuclear borders; the second is concentrated in certain nuclei in which it forms the topographically organized core. In projecting diffusely to the cortex, calbindin cells provide a substrate for binding together activities of multiple cortical areas that receive focused input from single thalamic nuclei. This, and the presence of specific and diffuse corticothalamic projections may serve to promote coherent activity of large populations of cortical and thalamic neurons in perception, attention and conscious awareness.
This overview highlights the presentations made by several authors, with sidelights commentaries on the topics covered in this session. The Neurotropic hypothesis, formulated by Cajal more than one century ago, has been one of the fundamental tenets of modern Neuroscience. Research work is unveiling highly complex molecular mechanisms by means of which neuronal processes grow in the right direction leading to the formation of neural networks. Another interesting topic covered in this session pertains to the remarkably conserved similarity of most parts of the brain between reptiles, birds and mammals. The presence of the neocortex, which occurs in mammals, is discussed on the basis of different migratory behavior during development. The question of neuronal stability throughout the life cycle raises interesting aspects on the generation of new neurons. This is a particularly timely topic because recent evidence, denied by others, has shown the generation of new neocortical neurons in the adult. In another session, it was discussed the evidence showing that pyramidal cells and intrinsic cells of the neocortex have different developmental origins. Finally, several modern analyses show the role of different transcription factors in the formation of brain cortical maps before the arrival of their proper afferent connections.
The marginal zone of the developing cerebral cortex is formed by different types of neurons, some of which were described more than one century ago. It is the case of Cajal-Retzius cells, which are known to synthesize and secrete Reelin, an extracellular matrix glycoprotein critically involved in the radial migration and early cortical cytoarchitectonic organization. These cells do not emit projection axons, a characteristic that bespeaks against these cells being considered as pioneer neurons. The true pioneer neurons of the marginal zone are part of a distinct cell entity: these are cells that emit the earliest descending axonal projection from the cerebral cortex into the subpallium, even before than subplate neurons, the other population of pioneer neurons in the cortical anlage. Finally, the marginal zone is a territory where cohorts of undifferentiated cortical interneurons migrate into the upper layers of the cerebral cortex. Marginal zone neurons, including Cajal-Retzius cells, tend to distribute non-uniformly over the cortical surface. Such a mosaic structural configuration points towards more complexities regarding their possible functions during cortical development.


After the collective work of many investigators, beginning with the early studies of Cajal, the following main [figure: see text] conclusions may be drawn regarding the morphology, biochemical characteristics and synaptic connections of interneurons: 1. Interneurons show a great variety of morphological, biochemical and physiological types. They constitute approximately 15-30% of the total population of neurons. 2. Because of the heterogeneity of interneurons and the lack of consensus as to which characteristics are essential for an individual neuron to be considered a member of a given cell type, there is no definitive classification of interneurons. Nevertheless, certain interneurons can be readily recognized by their unique morphological characteristics, or they can be more generally divided into subgroups on the basis of their biochemical characteristics, patterns of axonal arborization, or synaptic connections with pyramidal cells. 3. All interneurons have a more or less dense axonal arborization distributed near the cell body, mainly within the area occupied by their dendritic field. However, some interneurons may display, in addition, prominent long, horizontal or vertical axonal collaterals. [figure: see text] 4. Most interneurons form symmetrical synapses with both pyramidal cells and other interneurons, with the exception of chandelier cells, which only form synapses with the axon initial segment of pyramidal cells. Furthermore, interneurons are not only connected by chemical synapses (unidirectional connections), but they may also form electrical synapses through gap junctions (bidirectional) in a specific manner. 5. With the exception of chandelier cells, other types of interneurons include among their synaptic targets more than one type of postsynaptic element. But the degree of preference for these postsynaptic elements varies markedly between different types of interneurons. 6. The number of synapses made by a single axon originating from a given interneuron on another neuron is on the order of ten or less. Since, in general, cortical neurons receive many more interneuronal (symmetrical) synapses (on the order of a few hundred or thousand), a considerable convergence of various types of interneurons to pyramidal cells and interneurons appears to occur. 7. Most interneurons are GABAergic and also express a number of different neurotransmitters (or their synthesizing enzymes), neuropeptides and calcium-binding proteins. Thus, interneurons are, biochemically, widely heterogeneous. 8. Some of the morphologically identifiable neurons can be characterized by their particular biochemical characteristics, and some biochemically definable subgroups of interneurons display a particular morphology. However, different morphological types of GABAergic neurons may share one or several neurotransmitters, neuroactive substances and/or other molecular markers. Therefore, a great variety of subgroups of morphologically and biochemically identifiable neurons exist. 9. Some interneurons appear to be common to all species and, therefore, may be considered as basic elements of cortical circuits, whereas others may represent evolutionary specializations which are characteristic of particular mammalian subgroups and, thus, cannot be taken as essential, or general, features of cortical organization. 10. Given the complexity of cortical circuits and the areal and species differences, it is impossible to draw a &quot;sufficiently&quot; complete basic diagram of cortical microcircuitry that is valid for all cortical areas and species.
Intracellular recordings with concurrent visualization of the neuron as well as immunocytochemical studies in the last couple of decades confirmed the selectivity, and revealed additional complexity, in the synaptic connections in hippocampal circuits described by Santiago Ramn y Cajal. Even minor anatomical details began to gain functional meaning via the state-of-the-art combined approaches. The revolution of molecular biology brought about the rapid development of anatomy aimed at the localization of the numerous receptor subunits, ion channels, transporters and other proteins at the regional, cellular and subcellular levels that are being cloned every day (e.g., see Nusser, 2000). These fine-grain immunocytochemical data appear to have an immense predictive power for physiological and pharmacological studies and continue to serve as the ultimate test of hypotheses drawn from functional studies. Knowledge of the precise anatomical distribution of extrasynaptic receptors is required to understand the functional roles of various nonsynaptic mediators and diffuse pathways in the brain, as well as to the design of selective drugs for pharmacotherapy. Cajal would be delighted to see the revitalization of functional neuroanatomy, particularly of molecular anatomy, among the modern disciplines in the neurosciences today.
Santiago Ramn y Cajal made immense contributions to neuroscience, and the era in which his work is cited is likely to be longer than that for any other present or future neuroscientist. This commentary notes that there is qualification to the doctrine that neurons are distinct entities rather than reticular. Namely, gap junctions provide a private pathway between coupled cells that, at an ultramicroscopic scale, can be considered cytoplasmic continuity. Cytoplasmic continuity permits, but does not require, conduction in either direction across an electrical synapse. Furthermore, sites of impulse initiation can differ in the same or different cells; there is no universal direction of impulse propagation and it may differ in the same cell under different conditions; thus, there are exceptions to the law of &quot;dynamic polarization&quot;. Cajal leaves ample evidence in his writings that he would have no difficulty in accepting these very minor modifications to the vast body of his contributions.

Neuronal arborizations that were so elegantly demonstrated in the early drawings of Santiago Ramn y Cajal can now be viewed by high resolution electron microscopic immunocytochemical localization of vesicular and plasmalemmal neurotransmitter transporters and receptors. The subcellular distribution of these proteins confers both chemical selectivity and functional specificity to the dendritic and axonal arborizations described by Cajal. This is illustrated by central dopaminergic and cholinergic neurons. Dopamine terminals in the striatum and ventral pallidum, as well as dendrites of midbrain dopaminergic neurons in the ventral tegmental area and substantia nigra express the plasmalemmal dopamine transporter (DAT) and the vesicular monoamine transporter (VMAT2). In forebrain regions, the dopamine D2 receptor (D2R) autoreceptor is localized to dopamine terminals, but also is targeted to pre- and postsynaptic neuronal profiles at a distance from the dopamine terminals. In somata and dendrites of the midbrain dopaminergic neurons, D2R labeling is expressed in most dendrites that contain VMAT2 storage vesicles, as well as in both excitatory and inhibitory afferents. Together, these observations indicate that dopamine is stored in and released from vesicles in both dendrities and axons, and may activate either local or more distant receptors through volume transmission. By analogy, the vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VachT) is similarly localized to the membranes of axon terminals and tubulovesicles in dendrities in the mesopontine tegmental cholinergic nuclei, suggesting that there also may be release of acetylcholine from both dendrities and axons. These results identify chemically selective functional sites for neuronal signaling envisioned by Cajal and redefined by modern technology.

Ever since dendritic spines were first described in detail by Santiago Ramn y Cajal, they were assumed to underlie the physical substrate of long term memory in the brain. Recent time-lapse imaging of dendritic spines in live tissue, using confocal microscopy, have revealed an amazingly plastic structure, which undergoes continuous changes in shape and size, not intuitively related to its assumed role in long term memory. Functionally, the spine is shown to be an independent cellular compartment, able to regulate calcium concentration independently of its parent dendrite. The shape of the spine is instrumental in regulating the link between the synapse and the parent dendrite such that longer spines have less impact on the dendrite than shorter ones. The spine can be formed, change its shape and disappear in response to afferent stimulation, in a dynamic fashion, indicating that spine morphology is an important vehicle for structuring synaptic interactions. While this role is crucial in the developing nervous system, large variations in spine densities in the adult brain indicate that tuning of synaptic impact may be a role of spines throughout the life of a neuron.
Results from experimental studies in the past have suggested that early-life seizures have little consequence on brain development. However, the creation of new animal models is altering this view. This chapter briefly summarizes these new findings and suggests avenues for future study.
The effects of brief seizures during development depend on multiple factors such as underlying brain pathology, specific age of occurrence and frequency. Studies in rats are frequently used to determine the consequences of seizures in the developing brain. The shorter prepubertal development and life span of the rat compared to humans may suggest that brief seizures in the rat are not necessarily equivalent to brief seizures in humans. Nevertheless, there is substantial evidence that in the rat, the consequences of seizures are age-dependent. The immature brain is relatively resistant to morphological damage, especially in the hippocampus, and functional changes as measured by electrophysiology and behavior. Developmental kindling can be used as a model to study brief seizures early in life. Kindling permanently alters the brain so that rats stimulated again in adulthood require only few kindling stimuli for fully kindled seizures to occur although there are no apparent morphological and functional changes in the hippocampus resulting from kindling early in life. The appreciation that kindling can alter brain function without any discrete (to date) morphological changes may lead to the development of effective neuroprotective strategies to alter the process, but it is not clear that all kindling-induced changes are detrimental to the brain.
Glutamate, the most abundant excitatory neurotransmitter in the mammalian CNS, plays a central role in many neuronal functions, such as long-term potentiation, which is necessary for learning and memory formation. The fast excitatory glutamate neurotransmission is mediated by ionotropic receptors that include AMPA/kainate and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, while the slow glutamate responses are mediated through its interaction with metabotropic receptors (mGluRs) coupled to G-proteins. During seizures, massive release of glutamate underlies excitotoxic neuronal damage as it triggers an overflow of calcium in postsynaptic neurons mediated by NMDA-gated channels. The early upstream postsynaptic events involve the activation of phospholipases, with the release of membrane-derived signaling molecules, such as free arachidonic acid (AA), eicosanoids, and platelet-activating factor (PAF). These bioactive lipids modulate the early neuronal responses to stimulation as they affect the activities of ion channels, receptors, and enzymes; and when released into the extracellular space, they can contribute to the modulation of presynaptic neurotransmitter release/re-uptake, and/or affect other neighboring neuronal/glial cells. The downstream postsynaptic events target the nucleus, leading to activation of gene-expression cascades. Syntheses of new proteins are the basis for seizure-induced sustained physiological and/or pathological changes that occur hours, days, or months later, such as synaptic reorganization and repair, and apoptotic/necrotic neuronal death. The intricate mesh of signaling pathways converging to the nucleus, and connecting upstream to downstream synaptic events, are at present the focus of many research efforts. We describe in this chapter how seizure-induced glutamate release activates the hydrolysis of membrane AA-phospholipids via phospholipase A2 (PLA2), PLC, and PLD, thus releasing bioactive lipids that, in turn, modulate neurotransmission. We discuss mechanisms through which lipid messengers, such as AA and PAF, may turn into injury mediators participating in seizure-induced brain damage.
Four old (29 months) Brown Norway x Fischer 344 (BN x F344) rats received intracerebroventricular infusion of insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) and four middle-aged (18 months) and four old (29 months) rats received infusion of saline for 28 days. Sensorimotor cortex containing layer 2 was blocked and processed for electron microscopy. Thin (700 A) and semithin (1 microm) sections were collected from the same anatomical space for quantification of synapses and neurons, respectively, using the physical disector. Numerical density (Nv) of presumptive inhibitory synapses in layer 2 of sensorimotor cortex has been reported to decline with age Poe et al., 2001; Brunso-Bechtold et al. [Brain Res. 872 (2000) 125]. Infusion of IGF-1 did not affect the density of synapses or neurons when old IGF-1 animals were compared with old saline animals.
Planaria, the most primitive example of centralization and cephalization of the nervous system along phylogeny, shows specific stereotyped behavioral patterns following exposure to drugs acting on neural transmission. In this study, the authors investigated the effects of exposure to the synthetic cannabinoid receptor agonist WTN55212.2 on motor activity in planaria. WTN55212.2 produced dose-dependent stimulation of motor behavior. High doses of the drug caused stereotyped activities identical to those seen previously with opioid agonists. These effects were antagonized by coexposure to cannabinoid or opioid receptor antagonists. The results indicate that functional interactions between cannabinoid and opioid systems are highly conserved along phylogeny, at least at the behavioral level.
Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) was obtained from 32 patients with dementia, 19 healthy controls that were age-matched with the dementia patients, and 29 DSM-IV major depression patients and calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactivity (CGRP-LI) and calcitonin-like immunoreactivity (CT-LI) measured by RIA. CGRP-LI was lower in the dementia group compared to both the controls and depressed patients (P&lt;.01) after covarying out sex and age. CT-LI was decreased in the dementia and depressed patients (P&lt;.05) compared to the controls. A positive relationship between CGRP-LI and CT-LI was found in dementia. A logistic discriminant analysis with calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) and log calcitonin (CT) predicting diagnosis (three classes) revealed a significant overall fit (chi2 = 18.08, P = .0011), with an effect test showing contributions of both independent variables: CGRP (chi2 = 10.03, P&lt;.007), log CT (chi2 = 8.63, P = .013). In dementia, both CGRP-LI and CT-LI were decreased and their concentration ratio did not differ from that in controls, likely reflecting a general neuronal loss. Alternatively and more speculatively, but theoretically possible, expression of the alpha-CGRP/CT gene may be affected in dementia. In contrast, in depression, CT-LI but not CGRP-LI was decreased and the CGRP/CT concentration ratio was increased, which is consistent with a possibility of an altered splicing process favoring CGRP mRNA.
The effect of electrical vagus nerve stimulation (VNS) on sleep and behavior was analyzed in freely moving cats. Eight cats were prepared for 23-h sleep recordings. The left vagus nerve of four of them was stimulated during 1 min, five times at 1-h intervals, for 5 days. The VNS induces: ipsilateral myosis, blinking, licking, abdominal contractions, upward gaze, swallowing, and eventually yawning and compulsive eating, as well as an increase of ponto-geniculate-occipital (PGO) wave density and of the number of stages and total amount of rapid eye movement (REM) sleep. Besides, there was a sudden transition from waking stage to REM sleep. The present results suggest that VNS modifies sleep in the cat. This effect could be explained by an activation of the areas involved in the physiological mechanisms of sleep.
The highly unsaturated fatty acids (HUFA) of the n-6 and n-3 series are involved in cell signalling in normal and transformed cells and have recently been associated with pathways leading to tumour cell death. The antitumour activity of three HUFA (arachidonic acid, gamma linolenic acid and eicosapentaenoic acid) were studied in glioma cells and tissue. Using five glioma models, including primary cell suspensions prepared from 46 human glioma samples and an in vivo rat C6 glioma model, we obtained evidence that, following exposure to HUFA, either administered into the medium surrounding human glioma cells or in 16 preparations of multicellular spheroids derived from human and rodent glioma cell lines (C6, MOG, U87, U373) or administered intra-tumourally by infusion using osmotic mini-pumps in 48 rats, glioma regression and apoptosis were detected. Additionally, synergy between gamma irradiation and HUFA administration was observed in 13 experiments analyzing C6 glioma cell apoptosis in vitro. These pro-apoptotic and antiproliferative activities were observed using both C18 and C20 fatty acids of the n-6 and n-3 series, but not when saturated and monounsaturated C18 and C20 fatty acid preparations were used. In the glioma infusion model, in addition to the apoptosis detected in glioma tissue infused with HUFA for 3-7 days, preservation of normal neural tissue and vasculature in adjacent brain was observed. Also, there was little evidence of acute inflammatory infiltration in regressing tumours. Our findings suggest that intraparenchymal infusion of HUFA may be effective in stimulating glioma regression.

Psychological processes of learning may lead to biological changes in brain synapses, as was shown by Eric Kandel, Nobel laureate for 2000. Factors connected with learning (for instance, psychotherapeutic procedures) can modify the expression of genes occurring in brain cells. Current neurobiological research make it possible to explain some theoretical concepts and mechanisms of action of psychotherapy on the ground of basic medical sciences. Experimental and clinical studies point to a prominent role for early untoward life experiences in brain development and vulnerability for psychiatric disturbances. Neuroimaging studies demonstrated the existence of unconscious processes in both cognitive and emotional functions. In several studies, changes in brain function or in the biology of whole organism were measured, under the influence of psychotherapy. It was found that in such illnesses as depression or obsessive-compulsive disorder, similar changes in brain functions, as measured with neuroimaging methods, were observed either after pharmacotherapy or psychotherapy. The attempts have been also made to interpret psychotherapeutic mechanisms in the light of current concepts of memory processes, functioning of brain circuits or neurobiological theories of character and temperament.
This paper presents details of the development of recursive thought from early infancy to early childhood. During this period the child is said to face the task of developing a &quot;representational theory of mind.&quot; In earlier writings I have suggested eight developmental stages of modeling of mind emerging from brain development. My emphasis has been that the selectionist neural Darwinian nature of the phylogenetic background for human brains and the accompanying nurture of the prolonged infant learning period for minds have together fashioned clear-cut steps of what the mind has to learn about thinking during this period. Object relations development of increasing sophistication emerges naturally from the recursive, back and forth communications between people and internally self-reflective dialogues, which take place together. Both natural selection and social instruction based on that selection are seen as necessary aspects of this development. The contributions of Edelman, Tomasello, Barresi and Moore, and Fonagy and Target are each uniquely useful to catch these infant development concepts. My contributions of eight infant developmental stages by four-and-a-half years of age fit with the findings of these others.

The nature of the general factor of intelligence, or g, is examined. This article begins by observing that the finding of a general factor of intelligence appears to be inconsistent with current findings in neuroscience and cognitive science, where specific connections are argued to be critical for different intellectual abilities and the brain is argued to develop these connections in response to environmental stimuli. However, it is then observed that if people differed in neural plasticity, or the ability to adapt their connections to the environment, then those highly developed in one intellectual ability would be highly developed in other intellectual abilities as well. Simulations are then used to confirm that such a pattern would be obtained. Such a model is also shown to account for many other findings in the field of intelligence that are currently unexplained. A critical period for intellectual development is then emphasized.
Use or abuse of licit and illicit substances is often associated with environmental stress. Current clinical evidence clearly demonstrates neurobehavioral, somatic growth and developmental deficits in children born to drug-using mothers. However, the effects of environmental stress and its interaction with prenatal drug exposure on a child's development is unknown. Studies in pregnant animals under controlled conditions show drug-induced long-term alterations in brain structures and functions of the offspring. These cytoarchitecture alterations in the brain are often associated with perturbations in neurotransmitter systems that are intimately involved in the regulation of the stress responses. Similar abnormalities have been observed in the brains of animals exposed to other adverse exogenous (e.g., environmental stress) and/or endogenous (e.g., glucocorticoids) experiences during early life. The goal of this article is to: (1) provide evidence and a perspective that common neural systems are influenced during development both by perinatal drug exposure and early stress exposure; and (2) identify gaps and encourage new research examining the effects of early stress and perinatal drug exposure, in animal models, that would elucidate how stress- and drug-induced perturbations in neural systems influence later vulnerability to abused drugs in adult offspring.
It has long been believed that stress and drug abuse are related. Studies using animal models have repeatedly demonstrated that stressed animals more readily self-administer alcohol or other drugs. Similarly, human patients consistently report in clinical interviews that stress is one reason for taking drugs. There are also studies that document neurophysiological, neuroanatomical, neurochemical, and physiological changes to animals and humans who are stressed. Many of these changes occur within biological systems that are also affected by psychoactive drugs. Early response to stress also modifies neurodevelopment in permanent ways, and these neuroadaptations occur within the same neuronal systems which comprise the drug-reward circuit. But absent are studies in humans that link early stress and modifications of neurodevelopment with increased vulnerability to drug abuse. This article provides a glimpse of research relating stress to alteration of brain functions and to drug abuse, and points to the work of others in this volume for more details. We hope this attempt to understand how early stress affects the developing brain and increases vulnerability to drug abuse will lead to a new program of research in this emerging area.
Familial studies on obsessive-compulsive disorders (OCD) have suggested that OCD is a heterogeneous condition, with some cases being familial and others being isolated cases in their families. Nevertheless, no studies evaluated whether there are clinical differences between OCD cases with and without a familial component. The current report presents data on the prevalence of OCD in first-degree relatives of OCD probands and compares phenomenological characteristics of familial and non-familial OCD types. The family study and the family history methods were used to estimate the prevalence of OCD in first-degree relatives of 74 OCD probands. A statistical comparison between OCD probands with and without familial loading was performed using Pearson's chi(2) test, Fisher's exact test, or Student's t test when appropriate. The rate of OCD was 3.5% in directly interviewed first-degree relatives. Eleven percent of the probands had at least one family member with OCD. There were no differences between the two types of OCD (familial vs. non-familial) except for life events prior to the onset of OCD, which were more common and more severe in non-familial OCD subtypes. In conclusion, our results (1) confirm that there is a familial component in the expression of some forms of OCD and (2) indicate that familial OCD patients are not characterized by peculiar clinical features, but appear to have a lower threshold for precipitating events.


During listening to a musical piece, unexpected harmonies may evoke brain responses that are reflected electrically as an early right anterior negativity (ERAN) and a late frontal negativity (N5). In the present study we demonstrate that these components of the event-related potential can be evoked preattentively, that is, even when a musical stimulus is ignored. Both ERAN and N5 differed in amplitude as a function of music-theoretical principles. Participants had no special musical expertise; results thus provide evidence for an automatic processing of musical information in onmusicians.&quot;
Phase coupling between movement trajectories has been proposed as the basic mechanism of hand coordination in the production of bimanual rhythmic movements with a 1:2 frequency ratio. Here a central temporal coupling view is proposed as an alternative. Extending previous models of two-handed synchronic and alternate-hand tapping, we hypothesized that 1:2 tapping is performed under the control of a single internal timekeeper set at the frequency required for the fast hand. The fast hand is assumed to use every signal and the slow hand every other signal of the timekeeper, to produce actions coordinated in time. The model's predictions for the variance-covariance pattern of tap timing within and across hands were tested in an experiment that required tapping with both hands with 1:1 or 1:2 frequency ratio. The finger contact on the response plate was to be short or long, according to instruction. Prolonged finger contact entailed profound modifications in the movement trajectories but failed to modify the variance-covariance pattern of the tap timing. This pattern proved to conform to predictions under both the short and the long contact conditions, thus supporting the central temporal coupling hypothesis.

Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) is in close proximity to the brain and changes in the protein composition of CSF may be indicative of altered brain protein expression in neurodegenerative disorders. Analysis of brain-specific proteins in CSF is complicated by the fact that most CSF proteins are derived from the plasma and tend to obscure less abundant proteins. By adopting a prefractionation step prior to two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DE), less abundant proteins are enriched and can be detected in complex proteomes such as CSF. We have developed a method in which liquid-phase isoelectric focusing (IEF) is used to prefractionate individual CSF samples; selected IEF fractions are then analysed on SYPRO-Ruby-stained 2-D gels, with final protein identification by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionisation time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOFMS). To optimise the focusing of the protein spots on the 2-D gel, the ampholyte concentration in liquid-phase IEF was minimised and the focusing time in the first dimension was increased. When comparing 2-D gels from individual prefractionated and unfractionated CSF samples it is evident that individual protein spots are larger and contain more protein after prefractionation of CSF. Generally, more protein spots were also detected in the 2-D gels from prefractionated CSF compared with direct 2-DE separations of CSF. Several proteins, including cystatin C, IgM-kappa, hemopexin, acetyl-coenzyme A carboxylase-alpha, and alpha-1-acid glycoprotein, were identified in prefractionated CSF but not in unfractionated CSF. Low abundant forms of posttranslationally modified proteins, e.g. alpha-1-acid glycoprotein and alpha-2-HS glycoprotein, can be enriched, thus better resolved and detected on the 2-D gel. Liquid-phase IEF, as a prefractionation step prior to 2-DE, reduce sample complexity, facilitate detection of less abundant protein components, increases the protein loads and the protein amount in each gel spot for MALDI-MS analysis.
This report presents a highly automated procedure for the determination of drug concentrations in plasma samples. The method is generic, in that it has been applied without adaptation to many different drug candidate molecules, but is also flexible, in that variations in the nature and number of samples to be analyzed can be readily accommodated. The method includes preparation of dilutions of analyte stock solutions, spiking these into control plasma to generate analytical standards, and preparation of samples suitable for analysis by high-performance liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry (HPLC/MS/MS) by precipitation of plasma proteins with acetonitrile, centrifugation, and dilution of the supernatants with HPLC buffer. All of these steps, apart from centrifugation, are performed without manual intervention on an automated liquid-handling workstation using 96-well plates. Analysis is by HPLC/MS/MS, using a generic HPLC gradient. Commercially available software was used for optimization of parameters for analysis by HPLC/MS/MS, integration of chromatographic peaks, and quantification of drug concentrations. The use of this methodology in our laboratory has greatly facilitated the analysis of small sample sets for a large number of analytes, a situation regularly encountered in an early drug discovery environment.
Following exposure of anesthetized and unanesthetized rats to hypercapnic stress, arginine vasopressin (AVP)-containing neurons of the hypothalamic paraventricular (PVN) and supraoptic (SON) nuclei were examined for expression of the c-fos gene encoded protein (c-Fos). In addition, we determined whether AVP-containing PVN neurons activated by hypercapnia project to phrenic nuclei. In adult control rats, only scant c-Fos-like immunoreactive neurons were observed within the hypothalamic nuclei. A marked increase in c-Fos positive cells was induced after 2 h of breathing a gas mixture with elevated CO(2) (5% CO(2), 21% O(2) and 74% N(2), or 1 h following breathing of 12% CO(2,) 21% O(2,) and 67% N(2)). Colocalization studies of AVP and c-Fos protein revealed that in the PVN, 75% of AVP-containing cells expressed c-Fos immunoreactivity. c-Fos and AVP were coexpressed in 60% of SON neurons in anesthetized rats. In addition, retrograde labeling studies with cholera toxin b subunit (CTb) revealed that a subpopulation of PVN cells (15%) that project to phrenic nuclei are activated by hypercapnia, as indicated by c-Fos expression. These results indicate that (i) PVN and SON AVP-containing neurons are part of the neuronal networks that react to hypercapnic exposure; and (ii) a subset of CO(2) reactive PVN cells innervate phrenic nuclei.
How do organisms sense the amount of oxygen in the environment and respond appropriately when the level of oxygen decreases? Oxygen sensing and the molecular stratagems underlying the process have been the focus of an endless number of investigations trying to find an answer to the question: &quot;What is the identity of the oxygen sensor?&quot; Dynamic changes in pO2 constitute a potential signaling mechanism for the regulation of the expression and activation of reduction-oxidation (redox)-sensitive and oxygen-responsive transcription factors, apoptosis-signaling molecules and inflammatory cytokines. The transition from placental to lung-based respiration causes a relatively hyperoxic shift or oxidative stress, which the perinatal, developing lung experiences during birth. This variation in DeltapO2, in particular, differentially regulates the compartmentalization and functioning of the transcription factors hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha (HIF-1alpha) and nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB). In addition, oxygen-evoked regulation of HIF-1alpha and NF-kappaB is closely coupled with the intracellular redox state, such that modulating redox equilibrium affects their responsiveness at the molecular level (expression/transactivation). The differential regulation of HIF-1alpha and NF-kappaB in vitro is paralleled by oxygen-sensitive and redox-dependent pathways governing the regulation of these factors during the transition from placental to lung-based respiration ex utero. The birth transition period in vivo and ex utero also regulates apoptosis signaling pathways in a redox-dependent manner, consistent with NF-kappaB being transcriptionally regulated in order to play an anti-apoptotic function. An association is established between oxidative stress conditions and the augmentation of an inflammatory state in pathophysiology, regulated by the oxygen- and redox-sensitive pleiotropic cytokines.
This commentary summarises the evidence that nicotine has the pharmacological properties of a psychostimulant drug of dependence. Behaviourally it serves as a reinforcer in self-administration experiments. Within the brain, acute nicotine stimulates the release of dopamine (DA) in the shell of the nucleus accumbens whereas repeated nicotine results in selective sensitization of its effects on DA overflow in the accumbal core. These effects are thought to play a central role in the acquisition of responding for nicotine and the development of associations between delivery of the drug and cues that predict its delivery. These responses, therefore, are thought to be pivotal to its ability to cause dependence. The commentary also emphasises the evidence that cigarette smoke provides a vehicle for nicotine that maximises its addictive potential since it delivers nicotine directly into the lungs and, within 10-15 s, to the brain. For habitual cigarette smokers, this process is repeated frequently and regularly and in the context of many other sensory cues within the smoke that potentially provide additional conditioned reinforcers. This, it is argued, explains the strong addiction that many smokers develop to tobacco smoke. Smoking cessation is also associated with the expression of an abstinence syndrome that can, largely, be attributed to nicotine withdrawal and is also likely to contribute to the maintenance of the habit. The commentary closes with a brief review of the pharmacological mechanisms that may contribute to the efficacy of nicotine replacement therapy and Zyban (bupropion) as aids to smoking cessation.

During mammalian cerebral cortical development, neural stem cells (NSCs) present within periventricular generative zones give rise to successive waves of neurons and radial glia, followed by oligodendrocytes and astrocytes. The molecular and cellular mechanisms that orchestrate these precisely timed and progressive maturational events are still largely undefined. These developmental processes are likely to involve the dynamic interplay of environmental signals, cell-cell interactions and transcriptional regulatory events. The bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs), an expanding subclass of the transforming growth factor beta cytokine superfamily, may represent an important set of environmental cues for these progressive maturational events because of the broad profiles of developmental expression of the requisite BMP ligands, receptor subunits and intracellular transduction elements, and because of their versatile roles in promoting a spectrum of cellular processes intimately involved in progressive neural fate decisions. The BMPs also interact with complementary regional environmental signals such as the basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) and sonic hedgehog (Shh) that promote earlier stages of NSC expansion, self-renewal, lineage restriction and incipient lineage commitment. The ability of these cytokines and trophic signals to act within specific neurodevelopmental contexts may, in turn, depend on the composite actions of cell-cell contact-associated signals, such as Notch-Hes-mediated lateral inhibitory pathways, and additional transcriptional modulatory events, such as those mediated by members of the inhibitor of differentiation (ID) gene family that encode a novel set of negative basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factors. In this chapter, we will examine the distinct roles of these different classes of developmental cues in defining the biological properties of an integrated cerebral cortical developmental signaling network. Ongoing studies in this exciting area of mammalian central nervous system (CNS) development will help to identify important molecular and cellular targets for evolving pharmacological, gene and stem cell therapeutic interventions to combat the pathological sequelae of a spectrum of acquired and genetic disorders of the central nervous system.


The mammalian cerebral cortex requires the proper formation of exquisitely precise circuits to function correctly. These neuronal circuits are assembled during development by the formation of synaptic connections between hundreds of thousands of differentiating neurons. Although the development of the cerebral cortex has been well described anatomically, the cellular and molecular mechanisms that guide neuronal differentiation and formation of connections are just beginning to be understood. Moreover, despite evidence that coordinated patterns of activity underlie reorganization of brain circuits during critical periods of development, the molecular signals that translate activity into structural and functional changes in connections remain unknown. Recently, the neurotrophins have emerged as attractive candidates not only for regulating neuronal differentiation in the developing brain, but also for mediating activity-dependent synaptic plasticity. The neurotrophins meet many of the criteria required for molecular signals involved in neuronal differentiation and plasticity. They are present in the cerebral cortex during development and their expression is regulated by synaptic activity. In turn, the neurotrophins themselves strongly influence both short-term synaptic plasticity and long-term potentiation and depression. In addition to their functional effects, the neurotrophins also profoundly regulate the structural changes that underlie axonal and dendritic differentiation. Finally, the neurotrophins have been implicated in mediating synaptic competition required for activity-dependent plasticity during the critical period. This chapter presents and discusses the rapidly accumulating evidence that the neurotrophins are critical for neuronal differentiation and that they may be involved in activity-dependent synaptic refinement in the developing cerebral cortex.
Normal development of cerebral cortex depends on proper sequential genesis of cortical neurons and glia. Disruption of corticogenesis in ferret by short-term arresting of cell division using injections of methylazoxy methanol (MAM) leads to a specific constellation of effects, including disruption and early differentiation of radial glia into astrocytes and disorganization of reelin-containing Cajal-Retzius cells. We hypothesize that early interference of normal cortical development removes a factor instrumental in maintaining radial glia in their normal elongated shape. In support of this idea, coculture of MAM-treated slices with normal cortical plate restores radial glia and Cajal-Retzius cells to their normal positions. Recently, we found that conditioned medium obtained from normal organotypic cultures returned radial glia toward their normal morphology only in a fraction of 30-50 kDa molecular weight (MW). To assess whether restoring this factor would also improve effective migration into the cortical plate of E24 MAM-treated animals, we conducted experiments using cocultures of normal cortical plate with organotypic cultures of MAM-treated cortex, which received prior BrdU injections. In both the normal and E24 MAM-treated/normal cortical plate coculture, a greater percentage of BrdU positive cells migrated effectively into the cortical plate. We suggest that early interruption of cell division eliminates a population of cells and a factor important for maintaining proper cortical development, specifically providing cues maintaining elongation of radial glia.
During the development of the central nervous system, there is a fundamental requirement for synaptic activity in transforming immature neuronal connections into organized functional circuits (Katz 1996). The molecular mechanisms underlying activity-dependent adaptive changes in neurons are believed to involve regulated cascades of gene expression. Immediate early genes (IEGs) comprise the initial cascade of gene expression responsible for initiating the process of stimulus-induced adaptive change, and were identified initially as transcription factors that were regulated in brain by excitatory synaptic activity. More recently, a class of neuronal immediate early genes has been identified that encodes growth factors, signaling molecules, extracellular matrix and adhesion proteins, and cytoskeletal proteins that are rapidly and transiently expressed in response to glutamatergic neurotransmission. This review focuses on the neuronal immediate early gene (nIEG) response, in particular, the class of &quot;effector&quot; immediate early gene proteins that may directly modify neuronal and synaptic function.
During the development of the neocortex, cell proliferation occurs in two specialized zones adjacent to the lateral ventricle. One of these zones, the ventricular zone, produces most of the neurons of the neocortex. The proliferating population that resides in the ventricular zone is a pseudostratified ventricular epithelium (PVE) that looks uniform in routine histological preparations, but is, in fact, an active and dynamically changing population. In the mouse, over the course of a 6-day period, the PVE produces approximately 95% of the neurons of the adult neocortex. During this time, the cell cycle of the PVE population lengthens from about 8 h to over 18 h and the progenitor population passes through a total of 11 cell cycles. This 6-day, 11-cell cycle period comprises the &quot;neuronogenetic interval&quot; (NI). At each passage through the cell cycle, the proportion of daughter cells that exit the cell cycle (Q cells) increases from 0 at the onset of the NI to 1 at the end of the NI. The proportion of daughter cells that re-enter the cell cycle (P cells) changes in a complementary fashion from 1 at the onset of the NI to 0 at the end of the NI. This set of systematic changes in the cell cycle and the output from the proliferative population of the PVE allows a quantitative and mathematical treatment of the expansion of the PVE and the growth of the cortical plate that nicely accounts for the observed expansion and growth of the developing neocortex. In addition, we show that the cells produced during a 2-h window of development during specific cell cycles reside in a specific set of laminae in the adult cortex, but that the distributions of the output from consecutive cell cycles overlap. These dynamic events occur in all areas of the PVE underlying the neocortex, but there is a gradient of maturation that begins in the rostrolateral neocortex near the striatotelencephalic junction and which spreads across the surface of the neocortex over a period of 24-36 h. The presence of the gradient across the hemisphere is a possible source of positional information that could be exploited during development to establish the areal borders that characterize the adult neocortex.
The goal of acute stroke therapy is preservation of the ischemic penumbra, the geographic area of relatively less ischemia surrounding the profoundly ischemic center. Emergent intravenous revascularization is currently the only U.S. Food and Drug Administration-approved therapy, but intra-arterial revascularization has also been shown to improve outcome significantly. Intravenous therapy has significant limitations: the time window for therapy is short, the large dose of fibrinolytic agent required may increase the risk of hemorrhagic complications, and questions have been raised regarding efficacy in patients with large vessel occlusions. Intra-arterial delivery of the lytic agent can address these issues, and direct intracranial intra-arterial fibrinolysis has been shown to be effective. Thrombolytic agents differ in stability, half-life, and fibrin selectivity, but effective therapies for acute stroke therapy must provide one common denominator: restoration of flow. It now appears certain that direct intra-arterial delivery of fibrinolytic agent improves the efficacy of lysis of bulk thrombus. The Interventional Stroke Therapy Outcomes Registry is acquiring data on all forms of interventional stroke therapy from around the nation as well as outside the United States to identify best practices in the treatment of acute stroke.
The department of neurology is devoted to the diagnosis and medical treatment of organic diseases of central nervous system (brain and spinal cord) and peripheral nervous system (peripheral nerves and muscles). Basic and clinical research in neuroscience constitute an essential activity of the department that defines its academic character. Over the years, the department of neurology has evolved from providing general neurology services to a multifaceted unit that has developed the several subspecialties of clinical neuroscience. Main research areas have included neurooncology, neurophysiology, neuropsychology, cerebrovascular diseases, childhood epilepsy and conditions affecting the psychomotor development of children. Neurogenetics is a recent addition to the areas of the interest of the department; research in neurogenetics includes basic investigations as well as clinical studies and focuses on inherited ataxias and genetic epilepsies.
During the last 25 years, the clinical and experimental activity in nuclear medicine at Erasme hospital has been influenced by the implementation of positron emission tomography (PET) in 1990 as a method of brain functional investigation. The activity of the PET/biomedical cyclotron unit has been dedicated to various subjects in neurology, neurosciences, psychiatry, oncology and cardiology. This has been made possible by developments in radiochemistry. The radiochemistry laboratory has designed and produced original tracers such as 9-[(3-[18F]fluoro-1-hydroxy-2-propoxy)-methyl]guanine (FHPG), a tracer of viral thymidine kinase activity in gene therapy protocols. We have brought new applications of PET, such as its integration into stereotactic neurosurgical and radioneurosurgical techniques in order to improve their diagnostic and therapeutic performance in neurooncology. We have also conducted multiple studies on brain physiology and pathophysiology, in particular with the use of functional and metabolic brain mapping methods and the use of tracers of neurotransmission systems. The Department of nuclear medicine has also performed studies on bone metabolism and investigated in vivo imaging methods of infectious and immune processes.
Brain transplantation of neurons may reach two different targets: (1) drug delivery system: eg dopaminergic (DA) neurons in Parkinson's Disease (PD) or indirect gene therapy in Huntington's disease (HD), and (2) organotypic reconstruction: eg striatal neurons in HD. Most published reports are phase 1, pilot trials: not all patients are responders, graft is followed by a 30p.100 decrease of daily levodopa intake, with an improvement of duration and severity of defined &quot;off&quot; periods and a decrease of the UPDRS score measured in &quot;off&quot;. Only one phase 2 trial is completed. A moderate improvement of motor symptoms was observed along with a decrease of daily antiparkinsonian drug intake. PET imaging with labelled fluorodopa shows typically an increase of Ki, meaning an increase of uptake in the striatum as compared to the cortex. Dyskinesias seen in some patients suggest either a lesion effect into the striatum, or indicate that the heterotopy of the grafted neurons may be partially harmful to the motor pathways. Xenografts with porcine neurons led to poor survival. More than ten years following the first published results, whereas improvement of motor symptoms and reduction or cessation of dopaminergic drugs may be observed, transplantation remains a matter of technical and ethical concerns. It remains in the field of medical research. Many questions remain unanswered, namely: the best location and size of transplantation; the amount of grafted neurons; the need and duration of immunosuppressive treatments; the best source of neurons to be tarnsplanted and the long term effect as compared to other medical or surgical treatments. Nervertheless one can be convinced that this method may be not harmful to patients and thus deserves new clinical trials aimed at giving logical and documented answers to the many questions asked above.
The effects of deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) or the internal pallidum (GPi) on the parkinsonian triad and on levodopa-induced dyskinesias are very similar. The antiakinetic effect of STN DBS seems to be slightly better. On the contrary to pallidal DBS, stimulation of the STN allows to reduce dopaminergic treatment by more than 50p.100 on average. Moreover, the current drain is smaller in STN. Thus, the STN is a low budget target compared to the GPi. STN DBS seems to be as effective on PD tremor as stimulation of the classic thalamic target, the ventral intermediate nucleus (Vim), whereas Vim stimulation has no effect on akinesia and very little on levodopa-induced dyskinesias. Thus, the STN has become the main target nucleus for DBS in PD, which is most often performed bilaterally in one surgical procedure. There is a good correlation of the preoperative response to levodopa and postoperative effects of bilateral STN DBS and this defines the patient population. Given the large patient population, simple guidelines for patient selection are developed. The referring physician can preselect patients based mainly on age (less than 70), absence of dementia and presence of severe disability related to motor fluctuations or dyskinesias. It is the responsibility of the operating centre to determine the levodopa response, to confirm the diagnosis, to rule out contraindications and to make sure that the medical treatment cannot be further optimised. Severe surgical complications with permanent sequels are relatively rare, about 1p.100 per implanted side. The patient selection, the precision of the surgery and the quality of the postoperative follow-up are the three main determinants of success.
The fact that our brain is continuously shaped by the environment and experience presents many challenges. It was noted several decades ago that exposure of a laboratory rat to a complex environment alters its brain and improves problem solving in complex tasks. Rats that are housed in an enriched environment can better compensate for brain lesion-induced deficits and resist neurodegeneration. In this article, the role of an enriched environment on brain plasticity following experimentally-induced lesions is discussed.
The primary visual cortex is the first cortical area of the visual system that receives information from the external visual world. Based on the receptive field characteristics of the neurons in this area, it has been assumed that the primary visual cortex is a pure sensory area extracting basic elements of the visual scene. This information is then subsequently further processed upstream in the higher-order visual areas and provides us with perception and storage of the visual environment. However, recent findings show that such neural implementations are observed in the primary visual cortex. These neural correlates are expressed by the modulated activity of the late response of a neuron to a stimulus, and most likely depend on recurrent interactions between several areas of the visual system. This favors the concept of a distributed nature of visual processing in perceptual organization.
Many experiments in the past have demonstrated the requirement of de novo gene expression during the long-term retention of learning and memory. Although previous studies implicated individual genes or genetic pathways in learning and memory they did not uncover the collective behaviors of the genes. In view of the broad variety of genes and the cross-talk of genetic pathways, gene expression profiles offer a new dynamic and functional dimension to the exploration of learning and memory. This review illustrates how DNA microarray-based gene expression profiling may help to dissect and analyze the complex mechanisms involved in gene regulation during the acquisition and storage of memory.
We report a 34-year-old man who presented with alcohol-withdrawal delirium. In the early phase, diffusion-weighted MR imaging demonstrating a high intensity area in the corpus callosum, indicating Marchiafava-Bignami disease. T2-weighted MR imaging did not clearly show the lesion. He was treated and completely recovered in terms of clinical state and MRI findings. Although historically the most of Marchiafava-Bignami disease was not cured, it seems that the lesion is reversible by management in the early stage. We propose that diffusion-weighted MR imaging is useful for the early detection of Marchiafava-Bignami disease.
We used cDNA microarrays to examine the extent to which the expression of individual genes varies in mouse brain and in cultured N2A neuroblastoma cells mRNA extracted from sixC57B1/6J neonatal mouse brains and from four distinct cultures of N2A neuroblastoma cells was cross-hybridized with ten AECOM cDNA microarray chips to determine the individual gene expression variability. A mathematical algorithm reduced the effect of potential sources of variability not associated to the biological material by about 80%. The interval estimates of the standard deviation of individual gene expressionwere determined through chi-square statistics. The newly introduced relative expression variability, defined as the quotient of the middle of the interval estimate of the standard deviation and the mean expression ratio (and its inverse, gene transcription control), was used to rank the most unstably and the most stably transcribed genes. In brains of different animals and in separate cultures of N2A cells, unique sets ofgenes exhibited exceptional stability or were highly variable. Possible implications for such tight or loose transcriptional control are discussed.




Near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) can measure changes in the hemoglobin oxygenation state in the human brain. NIRS has been oriented toward use for clinical monitoring of tissue oxygenation. However, we and others have recently demonstrated that NIRS also has the potential for neuroimaging. NIRS instruments, which use continuous wave light (CW) as a light source, are now commercially available. These CW-type NIRS instruments have high temporal resolution (less than 1 second) and allow long-term and continuous measurements, though they do not provide absolute values of changes in hemoglobin concentrations. In contrast, time-resolved spectroscopy (TRS), which uses short pulsed laser diodes as light sources, makes quantification possible. Quantification is necessary for the imaging of brain activity. Topographical images can be obtained by the use of our recently developed 64-channel time-resolved optical tomographic imaging system (optical CT) or by combining the 1 channel TRS instrument with the multichannel CW-type NIRS instrument. NIRS is completely non-invasive and does not require strict motion restriction during measurements unlike PET and fMRI. It is, thus, expected that NIRS will open a window into brain physiology in subjects who are difficult to examine with PET and fMRI such as children, the elderly, and patients with psychoneurological problems.

Efforts to duplicate the genetic and molecular breakthroughs of autosomal dominant frontal lobe epilepsy have lead to increased interest in familial temporal lobe epilepsy. In this report we describe three kindreds. The epilepsy syndrome described manifests after the teenage years and was generally mild and treatment responsive. The predominant seizure types were simple and complex partial seizures, typical of mesial temporal onset. Some family members had febrile convulsions only and others had epilepsy without preceding febrile convulsions. Three patients had both febrile convulsions and temporal lobe epilepsy. High-resolution quantitative and qualitative MRI was normal. The syndrome in these three kindreds is distinct from temporal lobe epilepsy due to mesial temporal sclerosis and febrile convulsions and is probably a form of idiopathic localization related epilepsy. Its relation to other familial temporal lobe epilepsy phenotypes is discussed.
Although reduction in seizure frequency is the most common endpoint used to assess the antiepileptic efficacy, seizure frequency alone does not provide a complete picture of effectiveness, particularly in patients with refractory epilepsy. The aim of our study was to assess the effects of topiramate on seizure severity and health-related quality of life (HRQL), in addition to standard efficacy measures, in an open, multicentre, 6-month trial of patients with epilepsy uncontrolled on antiepileptic drugs other than topiramate. Two hundred and nine patients were enrolled and received topiramate for up to 6 months (initiated at 50 mg/day and titrated to a recommended dose of 200-400 mg/day) in addition to existing medication. The median reduction in seizure frequency from baseline to the post-titration period was 40.9% ( P&lt; 0.0001). Patients also demonstrated a mean reduction in the Liverpool Seizure Severity Scale (LSSS) of 5.3 ( P&lt; 0.0001), which was considered clinically significant. Statistically significant changes in HRQL were not observed with the SF-36, a generic measure. Tolerability of antiepileptic medication was good, with a low incidence of cognitive adverse events. The results indicate that topiramate significantly reduces seizure severity---an important aspect of HRQL---when administered as adjunctive therapy to anticonvulsant therapy.
Advances in physics, computing, and signal processing have provided a range of computerized brain imaging technologies that facilitate examination of the brain as a dynamical system. This article provides a review of brain imaging advances and their application in neuropsychiatry. The review encompasses (1) a description of the imaging technologies used in neuropsychiatry; (2) an outline of their temporospatial complementarity; (3) application to clinical applications; and (4) suggested future directions including an &quot;integrative neuroscience&quot; approach to neuropsychiatry (in which theoretical models, data and information concerning mechanisms are integrated). In the absence of a unified theory of the brain, an integrated approach is presented as one means of exploring converging brain-imaging evidence in relation to neuropsychiatric disorders.
2-deoxy-2-[18F] fluoro-D-glucose (18FDG) was developed in 1976 in a collaboration between scientists at the National Institutes of Health, the University of Pennsylvania, and Brookhaven National Laboratory. It was developed for the specific purpose of mapping brain glucose metabolism in living humans, thereby serving as a tool in the basic human neurosciences. With 18FDG it was possible for the first time to measure regional glucose metabolism in the living human brain. Around the same time, the use of 18FDG for studies of myocardial metabolism and as a tracer for tumor metabolism were reported. After the first synthesis of 18FDG via an electrophilic fluorination with 18F gas (produced via the 20Ne(d,alpha)18F reaction), small volume enriched water targets were developed that made it possible to produce large quantities of [18F]fluoride ion via the high-yield 18(p,n)18F reaction. This was followed by a major milestone, the development of a nucleophilic fluorination method that produced 18FDG in very high yield. These advances and the remarkable properties of 18FDG have largely overcome the limitations of the 110-minute half-life of 18F so that 18FDG is now available to most regions of the United States from a number of central production sites. This avoids the need for an on-site cyclotron and chemistry laboratory and has opened up the use of 18FDG to institutions that have a positron emission tomography (PET) scanner (or other imaging device) but no cyclotron or chemistry infrastructure. Currently, 18FDG is used by many hospitals as an off the shelf radiopharmaceutical for clinical diagnosis in heart disease, seizure disorders, and oncology, the area of most rapid growth. However, it remains an important tool in human neuroscience and in drug research and development.
In our hypothesis of focal dystonia, attended repetitive behaviors generate aberrant sensory representations. Those aberrant representations interfere with motor control. Abnormal motor control strengthens sensory abnormalities. The positive feedback loop reinforces the dystonic condition. Previous studies of primates with focal hand dystonia have demonstrated multi-digit or hairy-glabrous responses at single sites in area 3b, receptive fields that average ten times larger than normal, and high receptive field overlap as a function of horizontal distance. In this study, we strengthen and elaborate these findings. One animal was implanted with an array of microelectrodes that spanned the border between the face and digits. After the animal developed hand dystonia, responses in the initial hand representation increasingly responded to low threshold stimulation of the face in a columnar substitution. The hand-face border that is normally sharp became patchy and smeared over 1 mm of cortex within 6 weeks. Two more trained animals developed a focal hand dystonia variable in severity across the hand. Receptive field size, presence of multi-digit or hairy-glabrous receptive fields, and columnar overlap covaried with the animal's ability to use specific digits. A fourth animal performed the same behaviors without developing dystonia. Many of its physiological measures were similar to the dystonic animals, but receptive field overlap functions were minimally abnormal, and no sites shared response properties that are normally segregated such as hairy-glabrous combined fields, or multi-digit fields. Thalamic mapping demonstrated proportionate levels of abnormality in thalamic representations as were found in cortical representations.
Detailed electrophysiological maps of the representations of trunk and adjacent body parts in area 3b and area 1 of somatosensory cortex were obtained in three macaque monkeys (Macaca mulatta and Macaca radiata) of either sex. A total of 211 microelectrode penetrations 250-300 microm apart resulted in 1,190 recording sites. During penetrations deep into the posterior bank of the central sulcus, recordings were made every 300 microm to depths of 6-7 mm until sites unresponsive to somatic stimuli were reached. Cortex was later cut parasagittally and sections were stained for cytochrome oxidase (CO) or Nissl substance. Contrary to expectations from earlier reports, the genitalia were represented lateral to the representations of the foot in cortex along the area 3b/1 border. The gluteal skin including the gluteal pads and the base of the tail were also represented in this section of cortex. Only a small region of cortex was devoted to the genitalia, and neurons in this cortex had receptive fields that were large and typically included skin of the inner thigh and belly. The lower, middle and upper trunk were represented more laterally, followed by the neck, upper head and arm. The receptive fields on the trunk were roughly the same size as those for the middle and lower trunk and slightly smaller on the upper trunk.
Two groups of subjects were tested using the method of Absolute Magnitude Estimation (AME) to determine the effect of age on the subjective intensity of vibration delivered to the skin of the hand. The mean age of the younger group was 23.5 years and that of the older group was 68.6 years. Average thresholds in the older group were higher in both the Pacinian (P) and non-Pacinian channel (NP II). The subjective magnitude of vibration was substantially lower at all intensities in the older group. Individual results clearly showed that the P channel saturates near the detection threshold of the NP II channel.
It has long been accepted that action potentials arising from Pacinian corpuscles (PCs) originate at the first node of Ranvier located within the PC and that the mechanotransduction events (receptor potentials) are formed by stretch-activated channels selectively sensitive predominantly to Na+. Also, it has been shown previously that tetrodotoxin (TTX) affects the receptor potential suggesting that transduction may involve voltage-sensitive Na+ channels. To determine whether voltage-sensitive Na+ channels exist in the membrane thought to be responsible for transduction, immunocytochemical studies were performed using polyclonal antibodies raised in rabbit against the alpha subunit of rat type I and type II voltage-gated sodium channels. The results show the presence of label on the neurite and axolemma, as well as in the node regions. Interestingly, labeling is also found on the inner and outer lamellae that form the non-neural accessory structure surrounding the neurite. The presence of this label in the surrounding lamellae suggests that voltage-sensitive Na+ channels, that are involved in both transduction and action-potential generation, may be made available to the neurite via transport from the lamellae, a mechanism perhaps operating in parallel to axoplasmic transport.
The histamine-induced skin flare response has been considered of practical value in determining the level of a spinal cord lesion, but clinical observations have varied widely with regard to the nature and degree of change below the lesion. We have quantified cutaneous sensory axon-reflex vasodilatation in patients with complete spinal cord injury (SCI) above and below the lesion, and compared the findings with normal subjects. Axon-reflex vasodilatation was induced by intradermal histamine injection, and measured by (a) laser Doppler fluxmetry and (b) tracing the surface area of the flare. Axon-reflex vasodilatation was present in all SCI patients above and below the lesion, but was significantly diminished below the lesion by both measures (pflux rise = 0.0008; pflare = 0.023), and in comparison with controls (by 39%). The flux increase was significantly correlated with the area of flare (r = 0.82; p = 0.02). Axon-reflex vasodilatation and visual analogue scale (VAS) pain scores on histamine injection were not significantly different above the lesion in SCI patients from controls. Baseline laser Doppler flux was not different at any test site in SCI and normal subjects. The cutaneous sensory axon-reflex is thus significantly diminished in SCI patients below the level of the lesion, but the underlying mechanism is unclear. A possible explanation under investigation is that increased basal or reflex sympathetic vasoconstriction mediated via the isolated spinal cord may counteract the vasodilatation produced by the cutaneous sensory terminals.
Anatomical studies indicate that a relatively large percentage of spinohypothalamic tract (SHT) neurons are located within thoracic spinal segments. The aim of this study was to characterize the responses of SHT neurons in these segments of rats to innocuous and noxious stimulation of the skin and of a visceral structure, the bile duct. In addition, we attempted to determine the trajectories of the axons of the examined neurons within the diencephalon and brainstem. Fifty-three SHT neurons were recorded within segments T8-T13 in urethane anesthetized rats. Each cell was antidromically activated using current pulses &lt; or = 30 microA delivered from the tip of an electrode located within the contralateral hypothalamus. The recording points were located in the superficial dorsal horn (9) and deep dorsal horn (44). All examined SHT neurons had receptive fields on the posterior thorax and anterior and ventral abdomen of the ipsilateral side. Ninety percent of the 41 SHT neurons responded exclusively (13) or preferentially (24) to noxious cutaneous stimuli. Thirteen of 27 (48%) examined units were activated by forceful distention of the bile duct. Response thresholds ranged from 30 to 40 mmHg. Responses incremented as pressures were increased to 50-80 mmHg. The axons of 22 of 28 (79%) examined SHT neurons appeared to cross the midline within the hypothalamus and terminate in the ipsilateral hypothalamus, thalamus or midbrain. The results indicate that SHT neurons in thoracic spinal cord of rats are capable of conveying somatic and visceral nociceptive information from the bile duct directly to targets at various levels of the brain bilaterally.
Human orientation and spatial cognition partly depends on our ability to remember sets of visual landmarks and imagine their relationship to us from a different viewpoint. We normally make large body rotations only about a single axis which is aligned with gravity. However, astronauts who try to recognize environments rotated in 3 dimensions report that their terrestrial ability to imagine the relative orientation of remembered landmarks does not easily generalize. The ability of human subjects to learn to mentally rotate a simple array of six objects around them was studied in 1-G laboratory experiments. Subjects were tested in a cubic chamber (n = 73) and a equivalent virtual environment (n = 24), analogous to the interior of a space station node module. A picture of an object was presented at the center of each wall. Subjects had to memorize the spatial relationships among the six objects and learn to predict the direction to a specific object if their body were in a specified 3D orientation. Percent correct learning curves and response times were measured. Most subjects achieved high accuracy from a given viewpoint within 20 trials, regardless of roll orientation, and learned a second view direction with equal or greater ease. Performance of the subject group that used a head mounted display/head tracker was qualitatively similar to that of the second group tested in a physical node simulator. Body position with respect to gravity had a significant but minor effect on performance of each group, suggesting that results may also apply to weightless situations. A correlation was found between task performance measures and conventional paper-and-pencil tests of field independence and 2&amp;3 dimensional figure rotation ability.

In 139 patients, 260 consecutive retrogasserian glycerol rhizotomies for trigeminal neuralgia were retrospectively analyzed regarding technical surgical difficulties and immediate and early complications. Technical obstacles occurred in 47.3%. In 21 cases (8.1%), the surgical procedure had to be interrupted due to circumstances such as vasovagal reactions, cardiac arrest, or difficulties to find the trigeminal cistern. Complications or side effects, being either transient or persistent, occurred in 67.3%. In the vast majority, those unwanted effects were related to mild sensory deficits. However, in 28.1% the complications were other than mild affection of facial sensibility. These slightly graver complications included labial herpes (3.8%), anesthesia dolorosa (0.8%), moderate or severe affection of sensibility (18.8%), dysesthesia (22.7%), chemical meningitis (1.5%) and infectious meningitis (1.5%). In 5 patients (1.9%) hearing was affected. In one of them, this condition was also brought about by tinnitus, and in another patient a preexisting tinnitus deteriorated. Although the frequency of surgical difficulties was high, the success of the glycerol injection was hampered only in a minor number of procedures. The frequency of complications and side effects was high, but they were mostly mild due to their nature and non-disabling for the patient. However, long-lasting disabling side effects occurred, and this should not be neglected when informing patients preoperatively. The surgical training needed to perform the procedure is stressed, and the use of prophylactic antibiotics when accidentally penetrating the oral bucca is recommended. We consider retrogasserian glycerol rhizotomy to be a good surgical option for patients with trigeminal neuralgia not suitable for microvascular decompression and when pharmacological therapy is not sufficient or is not tolerated.
Extradural cortical stimulation for neurogenic pain is a recent addition to the field of functional neurosurgery. About 50% of patients with central pain draw benefit in the long run. However, there is an urgent need for prognostic factors in order to cut the costs of the procedure. In this paper we report a statistically significant correlation between the subhypnotic propofol test, transcranial magnetic cortical stimulation (TMS) and the actual short-term outcome of extradural cortical stimulation in 9 patients. The propofol test and TMS appear to predict short-term effects of extradural cortical stimulation.
There is an ongoing controversy about whether it is necessary to use microelectrode recording (MER) techniques in stereotactic surgery for Parkinson's disease and other movement disorders. This paper consists of a critical review of the published literature in order to analyze the value of MER in providing safe, efficient and accurate functional stereotactic surgery. Review of the literature revealed that MER techniques do not necessarily improve targeting accuracy or clinical results, compared to techniques using impedance monitoring and macrostimulation. In terms of safety for the patients, however, MER techniques are relatively safe, but non-Mer techniques, based on macrostimulation-guided surgery, are at least five times safer.
The subthalamic nucleus (STN) is now regarded as the optimal surgical target for the treatment of medically refractory idiopathic Parkinson's disease. In our center, a predominantly MRI-directed method has been developed for targeting the STN. The STN is localized on T2-weighted images from a 1.5-T MRI scanner. Long acquisition, high-resolution images are acquired in both the axial and coronal planes under strict stereotactic conditions with the patient under general anesthesia. The boundary of STN is co-registered in both planes to give optimal 3-dimensional target definition. Stereotactic coordinates of the dorsolateral STN are recorded and the trajectory is planned down the axis of the nucleus in the coronal plane. Initially, per-operative macrostimulation was used for adjustment at the target prior to unilateral subthalamotomy in 26 patients. Five patients were lost to follow-up. Assessments of the lesions in post-operative images confirmed successful localisation of the lesions within the dorsolateral STN in all of the remaining 21 cases. In a subsequent series of 19 patients treated by deep brain stimulation (DBS), unilateral in 1 patient and bilateral in 18, the STN was targeted using the same MRI-directed method, guide tubes and radio-opaque stylettes were implanted, and target verification was entirely MRI-based. Following implantation of the guide tubes and stylettes, assessments of the per-operative MRI images for the 37 STN targetings confirmed a mean target error, between the stylette and the desired target in the axial plane, of 0.3 mm mediolaterally (SD = 0.4) and 0.4 mm anteroposteriorly (SD = 0.4), with median errors of 0.5 mm. This study demonstrates that MRI-directed targeting of the STN through guide tubes is accurate, and allows direct verification and corrections as necessary. Cumulative frequencies predict that the majority of DBS electrodes placed in this manner will be within 0.5 mm of the planned target. Because physiological methods are not required, the whole procedure can be performed under general anesthesia. We feel that planning with reference to a standard atlas is unreliable and not significantly helped by the addition of microelectrode recording, the accuracy of which in the axial plane is dependent upon the distance between the recording trajectories, which is typically 2 mm.




There is increasing interest in the concept that neuromuscular mechanisms and the central nervous system (CNS) are somehow involved in the etiology and pathogenesis of idiopathic scoliosis (IS). Yet in the extensive neuroscience research of idiopathic scoliosis certain neurodevelopmental concepts have been neglected. These include: (1) a CNS body schema for posture and movement control generated during development and growth by establishing a long-lasting memory; (2) pruning of cortical synapses at puberty; and (3) neuromorphic engineering. Memory of developing posture and movement might be established in neurons of the CNS body schema in the form of novel proteins; these could be coded by modified genes obtained by the recombination (crossing over) of DNA in a similar way to that in the production of immunological antibodies and during meiosis. These concepts need evaluation in relation to (1) the etiopathogenesis of IS and (2) a possible new treatment approach to idiopathic scoliosis involving a neuromorphic device to control the output for muscle stimulators that are inserted and driven with telemetry.
Cerebellar granule cells (CGC) deprived of serum or trophic factors develop sensitivity to kainate neurotoxicity that is mediated by the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-isoxazole proprionic acid (AMPA) subtypes of glutamate receptors (GluR). The L-type voltage-gated calcium channel (L-type VGCC) blocker nifedipine increases the potency of kainate 50-fold. Thus, one goal of this laboratory is to determine the underlying protective mechanism triggered by calcium influx through this channel. The cell-permeable heavy metal chelator N,N,N',N'-tetrakis(2-pyridylmethyl)ethylenediamine effected complete protection against kainate treatment in the presence of nifedipine, as did the iron chelator deferoxamine. The chelatable heavy metal pool decreased approximately 70% immediately following treatment with kainate, but did not change following kainate/nifedipine treatment. Tetramethylrhhodamine ethyl ester (TMRE) fluorescence, an indicator of mitochondrial membrane potential, decreased approximately 70% following kainate treatment but displayed a more modest decrease ( approximately 15%) when CGC were treated with kainate/nifedipine. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) formation decreased in CGC immediately following kainate treatment but was slightly elevated following kainate/nifedipine treatment. Electron microscopic examinations of the CGC indicated severe swelling and distortion of mitochondria immediately following kainate/nifedipine treatment and the appearance of mitochondrial herniations, whorls, and bridges 2 h later, features that were rarely observed following kainate treatment. These results support the hypothesis that calcium entry through L-type VGCCs protects CGC during kainate treatment by lowering the chelatable heavy metal pool and the mitochondrial membrane potential, thereby mitigating the formation of ROS.
In a previous study, we have shown in unilaterally dopamine-depleted rats that increased behavioral responsiveness to the dopamine D1-receptor agonist SKF-38393, which was induced by pretreatment with L-DOPA, is paralleled by specific alterations in striatal neuropeptide mRNA levels. The behavioral 'priming' effect of L-DOPA is prevented if L-DOPA is preceded by the NMDA-receptor antagonist MK-801. In the present study, the question is addressed whether blockade of the increased behavioral responsiveness with MK-801 also prevents the observed changes in striatal neuropeptide mRNA levels. After a challenge with SKF-38393 (3 mg/kg, s.c.), the striatal levels of preprodynorphin, preprotachykinin, and preproenkephalin mRNA were compared between unilaterally dopamine-depleted rats that were either primed with a single administration of L-DOPA (50 mg/kg, i.p.) or with L-DOPA preceded by MK-801 (0.1 mg/kg, i.p.). Priming with L-DOPA enhanced the increase in dynorphin mRNA levels in the dorsolateral part of the dopamine-depleted striatum that occurred after SKF-38393. On the other hand, it had no significant effect on substance P or enkephalin mRNA levels. MK-801 prior to L-DOPA prevented the increased responsiveness of dynorphin regulation. However, it induced a decreased response to dopamine D1-receptor stimulation in the substance P mRNA levels in dorsal regions of the dopamine-depleted striatum. The levels of enkephalin mRNA after challenge with SKF-38393 were not affected by the MK-801 administration. These results demonstrate that the increased behavioral responsiveness to the D1-receptor agonist SKF-38393 after priming with L-DOPA is primarily related to the upregulation of dynorphin mRNA levels in the dopamine-depleted striatum.
Consciousness might help to mobilize and integrate brain functions that are otherwise separate and independent. Evidence for this 'conscious access hypothesis' was described almost two decades ago, in a framework called global workspace theory. The theory had little impact at first, for three reasons: because consciousness was controversial; the evidence, though extensive, was indirect; and integrative theory was unfashionable. Recent neuroimaging evidence appears broadly to support the hypothesis, which has implications for perception, learning, working memory, voluntary control, attention and self systems in the brain.
Recent neuroimaging studies show that human rapid-eye-movement (REM) sleep is characterized by a specific pattern of regional brain activity. Although this is usually interpreted in relation to physiological and cellular mechanisms, the specific regional distribution of brain activity during REM sleep might also be linked to specific dream features. Remarkably, several bizarre features of normal dreams have similarities with well-known neuropsychological syndromes after brain damage, such as delusional misidentifications for faces and places. We propose that neuropsychological analysis of dream content might offer new ways of interpreting neuroimaging maps of sleep, and make specific predictions for future neuroimaging studies.

Collaboration between social psychologists and cognitive neuroscientists is giving rise to a new approach that its practitioners call 'social cognitive neuroscience'. Scientists from each discipline are using the theories and techniques of the other to generate new answers to fundamental questions about attitudes, beliefs, the self, moral judgment, and other issues. Is this interdisciplinary endeavor an exercise in wishful thinking and good intentions, or is it a preview of psychology's future?
Odorant receptor genes comprise the largest known family of G-protein-coupled receptors in vertebrates. These receptor genes are tightly clustered in the genomes of every vertebrate organism investigated, including zebrafish, mice and humans, and they appear to have expanded and duplicated throughout evolution. In a mechanism that has yet to be elucidated, each olfactory neuron expresses a single receptor gene. This highly restricted expression pattern underlies the ability to distinguish between a wide variety of odorants. Here, we address the evolutionary expansion of odorant receptor genes and the role genomic organization of these genes might have in their tightly regulated expression.
John Walsh's research on electric fish, carried out between 1772 and 1775, proved fundamental for demonstrating that electricity might be involved in animal physiology, and, moreover, in favouring a period of great progress in both the physiology and physics of electrical phenomena. However, Walsh is hardly known to modern neuroscientists and is largely neglected by science historians also. One of the reasons for this neglect is that he never published his 'crucial experiment', that is the production of a spark from a discharge of the electric eel.
The amyloid cascade hypothesis has been the predominant model of molecular pathogenesis in Alzheimer's disease. The finding of tau mutations in other dementias has added weight to the hypothesis as it suggests that tau-pathology is a downstream but essential part of the dementing process. However, some observations remain difficult to reconcile with the hypothesis. In transgenic mice, for example, amyloid generation does not induce the predicted cascade and in man, plaques and tangles are separated temporally and spatially. One alternative possibility is that some common factor, loss of wnt signalling for example, might induce both plaques and tangles.
The Joint International and American Neurochemistry Society Meeting was held, in collaboration with SAN (Sociedad Argentina de Neuroqumica), in Buenos Aires, Argentina from 26-31 August 2001.
The IUPS Satellite Symposium on Synaptic Transmission in the Central Nervous System was held on Heron Island, Australia from 3-6 September 2001.
Hyperbaric oxygen therapy (HBQ) has been used for several years as a treatment for Mnire's disease, particularly in Sweden. In this study continuous variations in pressure (from 1.7 to 2.2 ATA; alternobaric oxygen therapy: ABOT) were used to decrease endolymphatic hydrops, the typical histopathological substrate of Mnire's disease by increasing hydrostatic pressure and mechanical stimulation of the endolymphatic flow toward the duct and the endolymphatic sac, which produces a consequent increase in the dissolved O2 content in the labyrinth liquid, which should contribute to recovering cell metabolism and restoring cochlear electrophysiological function to normal. An experimental group of 20 patients suffering from unilateral Mnire's disease received a total of 15 ABOT treatment sessions during the acute episodes. Treatment foresaw two days without therapy every five days of application. Maintenance treatment consisted of one session per day for five consecutive days every month for one year. Thereafter, during the second, third, and fourth years of treatment, patients were submitted to one session per day for five consecutive days every three months. A control group of 18 patients suffering from Mnire's disease was treated with 10% glycerol i.v. (during the acute episodes) and with betahistine (8 mg x 3/day) in the periods in between. Mean pure tone average (PTA in dBHL) hearing thresholds at octave frequencies from 500 to 3,000Hz, and frequency of episodes of vertigo and tinnitus, both after 15 days of treatment and at the end of a four-year follow-up, were compared for both groups according to the 1995 Committee on Hearing and Equilibrium criteria. No statistically significant differences were found between the two groups at the end of the first 15 days of treatment. However, at the end of the follow-up period, patients treated with ABOT had significantly fewer vertiginous episodes and improved PTAs and tinnitus compared to the controls. The results support the use of ABOT as a valid alternative to drugs in the long-term treatment of Mnire's disease.
Cytosolic carbonic anhydrases CAI, CAII, and CAIII from liver, and CAII, and CAIII from muscle of adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were purified to homogeneity. CAIII from liver and muscle had the same amino acid composition and were immunochemically similar. Their kinetic properties at 0 degrees C were also similar. Km(CO2) was 4 mM and kcat 3x105 s(-1). Ki was 0.4 and 0.2 M for acetazolamide and NaCl, respectively. Both CAIIIs ran as single bands on SDS-electrophoresis and high-speed centrifugation, with a mol wt of 29.3 kDa. Their hydrodynamic properties suggest that CAIII is a compact, nearly spherical molecule. It contained 0.9 M zinc per M protein. In both tissues isoelectric focusing identified neutral and acidic isoforms with pIs near 7.0 and 6.3, respectively. These forms were immunologically identical and had the same amino acid composition and mol wts. The acidic forms probably represent subspecies of CAIII in different states of oxidation. CAIII is the major soluble protein in rat liver and muscle. Its function is probably to protect proteins of these tissues from oxidation catalyzed by iron-containing degradation products of haemoglobin and myoglobin. Liver CAI and CAII and muscle CAII were identical to CAI and CAII of rat erythrocytes.
In situ freezing is a standard procedure, typically applied in neuroscience, to stop post-mortem metabolism and diffusion. However, the concentration of a compound under study may well change before the tissue is completely frozen. Knowing the approximate local freezing time should make it possible to control this problem. A mathematical model of in situ freezing in liquid nitrogen has recently been introduced, and freezing times derived from this model are presented here. The hope is that this information will be considered useful when in situ freezing of small rodent brains is applied.
IFN-gamma is released in the brain, not only during acute infectious diseases or immunological reactions, but also for extended periods of time after clearance of infectious virus and during viral latency. In this review, we focus on the role of IFN-gamma in the interaction between a neuron and a pathogen, that is, the role in implementation of microbial destruction, stasis or persistence, its potential neuroprotective or toxic effects, and how this cytokine may affect neuronal function and the behavior of an individual.
A recent genetic investigation found some species of prosimian to have an opsin gene polymorphism [Nature 402 (1999) 36]. In the present study the functional implications of this finding were explored in a correlated investigation of opsin genes and spectral sensitivity measurements of a diurnal prosimian, Coquerel's sifaka (Propithecus verreauxi coquereli). Spectra recorded using electroretinogram (ERG) flicker photometry reveal a cone photopigment polymorphism paralleling an opsin gene polymorphism detected by molecular methods. This species has two middle-to-long-wavelength cone pigments with peak sensitivities of about 545 and 558 nm and a short-wavelength-sensitive cone with a peak at about 430 nm. The distribution of these pigments among animals predicts the presence of both dichromatic and trichromatic forms of color vision.
Leptin, the product of the obese (ob) gene, is a hormone primarily produced in adipose cells, and also at smaller amounts in some other peripheral organs. It regulates food intake, energy expenditure, and body weight. Leptin is thought to promote weight loss, at least in rodents, by suppressing appetite and stimulating metabolism. Mutant mice that lack either leptin or functional leptin receptors, such as ob/ob and db/db mice, are hyperphagic, massively obese, and diabetic. Central hypothalamic targets are mainly responsible for the effects of leptin on food intake and weight loss. However, there are also direct effects on peripheral tissues. Recently, the taste organ was found to be one of the peripheral targets for leptin. The hormone specifically inhibits sweet taste responses in lean mice and not in db/db mice. Thus leptin appears to act as a modulator of sweet taste, provided a functional leptin receptor is expressed by the taste cells. This chapter reviews the genetics and molecular biology of leptin and its receptors, the receptor mechanisms for sweet taste, the modulating action of leptin on taste receptor cells, and the consequences for the regulation of food intake.
The realization, in the past decade or so, that bidirectional communication between the central nervous system and the immune system was likely has sparked an explosion of interest in the roles certain cytokines, particularly the proinflammatory cytokine interleukin-1 beta (IL-1 beta), might play in the brain. The observation that IL-1 type I receptor was expressed in highest density in the hypothalamus was of significance in identifying a role for IL-1 beta in neuroendocrine modulation. However, the finding that receptor expression was also high in the hippocampus, an area of the brain which plays a pivotal role in memory and learning, has led to uncovering a role for IL-1 beta in cognitive function. There is now a great deal of evidence suggesting that IL-1 beta plays a significant role in hippocampal synaptic function, and the possibility that IL-1 beta may trigger some of the detrimental changes in certain neurodegenerative diseases is currently being assessed. The review addresses some of the issues relating to the role of IL-1 beta in the brain, specifically in the hippocampus.
Transplantation of embryonic human neural tissue can restore dopamine neurotransmission and improve neurological function in patients with Parkinson's disease. Logistical and ethical factors limit the availability of human embryonic allogeneic tissue. Embryonic xenogeneic neural tissue from porcine donors is an alternative form of donor tissue, but effective immunomodulatory techniques are warranted for neural xenotransplantation to become clinically feasible. We transplanted embryonic porcine ventral mesencephalic tissue into the brains of adult untreated C57BL/6 mice, untreated CD40L-/-mice and CD40L-/-mice that received injections of anti-LFA-1, CTLA41g or both compounds. Double-treated CD40L-/-mice had large grafts with high numbers of dopaminergic neurons 4 wk after transplantation. The grafts were completely devoid of lymphocytes, macrophages and activated microglia. Untreated C57BL/6 mice had rejected their grafts. Untreated CD40L-/-mice and CD40L-/-mice treated with monotherapy of anti-LFA-1 or CTLA41g had smaller grafts and more microglial and lymphocytic infiltration than double-treated CD40L-/-mice. We conclude that immunomodulation with concomitant inhibition of LFA-1 and B7 signaling in the perioperative period in CD40L-/-mice prevented the rejection of discordant neural xenografts. The treatment most likely reduced antigen presenting capacity and interfered with the costimulatory signaling needed for T cell activation to occur.
The influence of the unconscious on psychosomatic medicine and psychotherapy: a comprehensive concept of unconscious processes based on empirical evidence. The theory of the Unconscious constitutes the basis of psychoanalysis and of psychodynamic therapy. The traditional description of the Unconscious as given by Freud is of historical significance and not only gained widespread acceptance but also attracted much criticism. The most important findings of neurobiology, the cognitive sciences, social psychology and emotion research in relation to the Unconscious are compared with this traditional definition. Empirical observations on defence mechanisms are of particular interest in this context. A comprehensive concept of unconscious processes is revealed: the fundamental process of brain function is unconscious. Parts of the symbolic-declarative and emotional-procedural processing by the brain are permanently unconscious. Other parts of these processing procedures are conscious or can be brought to the conscious or alternatively, can also be excluded from the conscious. Unconscious processes exert decisive influence on experience and behaviour; for this reason, every form of psychotherapy should take into account such unconscious processes.

Wnt signaling via the Frizzled (Fz) receptor controls cell polarity and movement during development, but the molecular nature of Wnt/Fz polarity signal transduction remains poorly defined. Here we report that in human cells and during Xenopus embryogenesis, Wnt/Fz signaling activates the small GTPase Rho, a key regulator of cytoskeleton architecture. Wnt/Fz activation of Rho requires the cytoplasmic protein Dishevelled (Dvl) and a novel Formin homology protein Daam1. Daam1 binds to both Dvl and Rho, and mediates Wnt-induced Dvl-Rho complex formation. Inhibition or depletion of Daam1 prevents Wnt/Fz activation of Rho and of Xenopus gastrulation, but not of beta-catenin signaling. Our study illustrates a molecular pathway from Wnt/Fz signaling to Rho activation in cell polarity signal transduction.
G gamma(13) is a divergent member of the G gamma subunit family considered to be a component of the gustducin G-protein heterotrimer involved in bitter and sweet taste reception in taste bud cells. G gamma(13) contains a C-terminal asparagine-proline-tryptophan (NPW) tripeptide, a hallmark of RGS protein G gamma-like (GGL) domains which dimerize exclusively with G beta(5) subunits. In this study, we investigated the functional range of G gamma(13) assembly with G beta subunits using multiple assays of G beta association and G beta gamma effector modulation. G gamma(13) was observed to associate with all five G beta subunits (G beta(1-5)) upon co-translation in vitro, as well as function with all five G beta subunits in the modulation of Kir3.1/3.4 (GIRK1/4) potassium and N-type (alpha(1B)) calcium channels. Multiple G beta/G gamma(13) pairings were also functional in cellular assays of phospholipase C (PLC) beta 2 activation and inhibition of G alpha(q)-stimulated PLC beta 1 activity. However, upon cellular co-expression of G gamma(13) with different G beta subunits, only G beta(1)/G gamma(13), G beta(3)/G gamma(13), and G beta(4)/G gamma(13) pairings were found to form stable dimers detectable by co-immunoprecipitation under high-detergent cell lysis conditions. Collectively, these data indicate that G gamma(13) forms functional G beta gamma dimers with a range of G beta subunits. Coupled with our detection of G gamma(13) mRNA in mouse and human brain and retina, these results imply that this divergent G gamma subunit can act in signal transduction pathways other than that dedicated to taste reception in sensory lingual tissue.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by a progressive loss of 70-80% of dopaminergic (DA) neurons in the substantia nigra. High concentrations of DA were suggested to induce oxidative stress and selective neurodegeneration. We evaluated the effect of insulin-like-growth-factor-1 (IGF-1) on DA toxicity in neuronal cultures. IGF-1 (0.5 microg/ml) suppressed cell death induced by exposure to DA (0.3 mM) after 2 and 4 days, in a rat cerebellar culture. Similarly, IGF-1 (0.5 and 1.0 microg/ml) antagonized DA (0.125 and 0.250 mM) neurotoxicity in a human neuroblastoma cell line (SK-N-SH). Flowcytometric analysis of neuroblastoma cells treated with DA (0.5 mM) showed increased apoptosis, which was significantly reduced by IGF-1. The effect of IGF-1 was associated with increased Bcl-2 expression as indicated by flowcytometry and Western blot analysis. We suggest that IGF-1 possesses a neuroprotective effect against DA-induced toxicity, and may have a potential role in the treatment of PD.
Unilateral epidural applications of nickel solution to motor cortex were followed in about 1 h by contralateral forelimb myoclonus. In rats which displayed frequent myoclonal jerking during the 45-min 2-deoxyglucose (2-DG) uptake and clearing period, autoradiographic analysis showed that glucose utilization at the nickel implant site was greater in the supragranular and infragranular layers than in the granular layer (in normal cortex, activity is greatest in the granular layer), and was also greater in the substantia nigra and other subcortical centers. The same cortical and most of the subcortical changes in 2-DG uptake were also observed when metabolic activity was assessed 1 h after myoclonus had stopped, indicating that it may not have been the seizure activity itself that had altered metabolic activity, but some process engendered by the seizures - possibly a tissue response to excitotoxic damage. In fact, rats which displayed infrequent myoclonus showed negligible increases in cortical and subcortical uptake. These results do not support an earlier claim that increased glucose consumption is the metabolic signature of the interictal activity produced by seizure-inducing metals. Indeed, the findings raise the possibility that tissue damage is responsible for interictal hypermetabolism when it is observed in animal models of epilepsy.
Local circuit neurons in the human anterior thalamus (AT) were identified on the basis of glutamic acid decarboxylase immunoreactivity (GAD-IR). GAD-IR neurons of the AT displayed small diameter somas with thin, sparsely-branching dendrites, consistent with the morphological characteristics of local circuit neurons found in the thalami of other mammals. Sampling techniques revealed an average of 42% of all neurons within the AT were GAD-IR, one of the highest reported percentages of local circuit neurons in the mammalian thalamus. The presence of high proportion of local circuit neurons in the AT may indicate the extent to which the Papez circuit has evolved within the human brain in comparison to other mammals.
Improgan is a derivative of cimetidine that induces non-opioid antinociception after intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) administration, but the mechanism of action of this compound remains unknown. Since activation of either supraspinal or spinal alpha(2) adrenergic receptors can induce antinociception, and since improgan showed affinity for these receptors in vitro, the effects of the alpha(2) antagonist yohimbine on improgan antinociception were presently studied in rats on the hot plate and tail flick tests. Systemic yohimbine pretreatment (4 mg/kg, i.p.) completely blocked improgan antinociception (80 microg, i.c.v.), suggesting a mediator role for alpha(2) receptors. However, i.c.v. pretreatment with yohimbine (30 microg) had no effect on improgan antinociception. Since this treatment completely antagonized clonidine antinociception (40 microg, i.c.v.), supraspinal alpha(2) receptors seem to mediate the antinociceptive effects of clonidine, but not that produced by improgan. In contrast, intrathecal (i.t.) yohimbine pretreatment (30 microg) completely blocked the antinociception elicited by i.c.v. improgan and i.c.v. morphine. These results suggest that spinal (but not supraspinal) alpha(2) adrenergic receptors play a significant role in the pain-relieving actions of improgan. Furthermore, although improgan shows some affinity at alpha(2) receptors, this drug does not act directly at these receptors to induce antinociceptive responses. Like several other classes of analgesics, improgan-like drugs seem to activate non-opioid, descending pain-relieving circuits.
This paper is the second in a series of studies on the light and electron microscopic distribution of filamentous actin (F-actin) in the rat central nervous system (CNS) using phalloidin tagged with the fluorophore eosin followed by fluorescence photooxidation. A previous report described the selective localization of high concentrations of F-actin in subpopulations of dendritic spines in hippocampus, cerebellum and neostriatum. Dendritic spines were the most intensely stained structures in the CNS, but several other structures were notable for their consistent staining for F-actin. Although the majority of cell bodies, axons and large dendrites were unlabeled, mossy fibers and Schaffer collaterals in the hippocampal formation, basket cell axons in the cerebellar pinceau, and granule cell dendrites in the glomeruli of the cerebellar cortex routinely showed strong F-actin labeling. Staining was observed in all three glial cell types. Labeling was consistently observed in the astrocytic processes surrounding the Purkinje cell soma and primary dendrite. Intense but sporadic staining was observed in the perinodal glia of the Node of Ranvier. A few examples of labeled oligodendrocyte processes were also seen in the neostriatum. Labeling was observed in microglia in every brain region examined, although the labeling was present in the lumen of the endoplasmic reticulum and the nuclear membrane, leading to questions about its specificity. Perycites apposed to the blood vessels also showed very consistent labeling. Our results suggest that selected structures in the adult CNS in addition to dendritic spines are enriched in F-actin.
The authors report on movement disorders that persist for a long duration following Japanese encephalitis (JE). Fifteen patients with diagnosed JE were followed up after an interval of 3 to 5 years. Of the four patients with a movement disorder, two were children with severe generalized dystonia in whom MRI revealed bilateral thalamic lesions. The two adult patients had parkinsonism. MRI in both adult patients showed lesions confined to the substantia nigra. Viral antibody and antigen were absent in the CSF of all patients.
Ischemic leukoaraiosis is a consistent concomitant of vascular dementia. Conventional MRI provides little information about underlying white matter tract disruption and correlates poorly with cognitive dysfunction. Diffusion tensor MRI may provide better markers of tract integrity. Changes in the normal-appearing white matter were demonstrated in 30 patients with ischemic leukoaraiosis compared with 17 age-matched control subjects. These changes correlated with executive dysfunction assessed by the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test.

The key role of the Rho family GTPases Rac, Rho, and CDC42 in regulating the actin cytoskeleton is well established (Hall, A. 1998. Science. 279:509-514). Increasing evidence suggests that the Rho GTPases and their upstream positive regulators, guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs), also play important roles in the control of growth cone guidance in the developing nervous system (Luo, L. 2000. Nat. Rev. Neurosci. 1:173-180; Dickson, B.J. 2001. Curr. Opin. Neurobiol. 11:103-110). Here, we present the identification and molecular characterization of a novel Dbl family Rho GEF, GEF64C, that promotes axon attraction to the central nervous system midline in the embryonic Drosophila nervous system. In sensitized genetic backgrounds, loss of GEF64C function causes a phenotype where too few axons cross the midline. In contrast, ectopic expression of GEF64C throughout the nervous system results in a phenotype in which far too many axons cross the midline, a phenotype reminiscent of loss of function mutations in the Roundabout (Robo) repulsive guidance receptor. Genetic analysis indicates that GEF64C expression can in fact overcome Robo repulsion. Surprisingly, evidence from genetic, biochemical, and cell culture experiments suggests that the promotion of axon attraction by GEF64C is dependent on the activation of Rho, but not Rac or Cdc42.


In this second article Winkler's and Von Monakow's views on the evolution of psychiatry and neurology (1900-1930) are described. They discussed a number of scientific subjects in their correspondence, such as the localisation of functions in the central nervous system and in particular Von Monakow's concept of 'diaschisis'. This concept explained the phenomenon that symptoms during the acute phase of central nervous system disorders are more extensive and of a different nature than those during the chronic phase. The controversy between the neuron theory and the reticular theory was also discussed in the correspondence. One of the reasons for the correspondence and meetings was the plan to compile an atlas of the brain although due to the outbreak of World War I this did not come to fruition. Finally there was an extensive correspondence concerning the psychoanalytic movement within the psychiatry, of which Winkler and Von Monakow, as biologically orientated neuropsychiatrists, were highly critical. German language neuropsychiatry has had a considerable influence in the Netherlands and this is in part due to the relationship Winkler had with German neuropsychiatrists and Von Monakow in particular.
We compared radioligand binding and functional data for histamine H(3) receptor ligands across different tissues or species to evaluate the basis for pharmacological evidence of receptor heterogeneity previously reported. Agonist binding affinities showed correlation coefficients near unity in comparing human, dog, rat, and guinea pig cerebral cortical histamine H(3) receptors. Antagonist binding affinities revealed lower correlations for human compared to dog, rat, or guinea pig, suggesting species-based pharmacological differences. The functional potencies of histamine H(3) receptor antagonists in field-stimulated guinea pig ileum were highly correlated to binding affinities for guinea pig, dog, and, to a lesser extent, rat cerebral cortex. However, antagonist binding affinity at human cerebral cortex did not correlate well with guinea pig ileum functional potency. These results suggest significant interspecies histamine H(3) receptor heterogeneity, consistent with recent receptor gene sequence data. Therefore, genetic heterogeneity, rather than peripheral and central histamine H(3) receptor diversity, is responsible for the pharmacological differences observed.
Presenilin 1 (PS1) regulates beta-catenin stability; however, published data regarding the direction of the effect are contradictory. We examined the effects of wild-type and mutant forms of PS1 on the membrane, cytoplasmic, nuclear, and signaling pools of endogenous and exogenous beta-catenin by immunofluorescence microscopy, subcellular fractionation, and in a transcription assay. We found that PS1 destabilizes the cytoplasmic and nuclear pools of beta-catenin when stabilized by Wnt or Dvl but not when stabilized at lower levels of the Wnt pathway. The PS1 mutants examined were less able to reduce the stability of beta-catenin. PS1 also inhibited the transcriptional activity of endogenous beta-catenin, and the PS1 mutants were again less inhibitory at the level of Dvl but showed a different pattern of inhibition toward transcription below Dvl. The transcriptional activity of exogenously expressed wild-type beta-catenin and two mutants, DeltaN89beta-catenin and DeltaSTbeta-catenin, were also inhibited by wild-type and mutant PS1. We conclude that PS1 negatively regulates the stability and transcriptional activity of beta-catenin at different levels in the Wnt pathway, that the effect on transcriptional activity appears to be independent of the GSK-3beta mediated degradation of beta-catenin, and that mutations in PS1 differentially affect the stability and transcriptional activity of beta-catenin.
Rearrangements of the actin cytoskeleton are involved in a variety of cellular processes from locomotion of cells to morphological alterations of the cell surface. One important question is how local interactions of cells with the extracellular space are translated into alterations of their membrane organization. To address this problem, we studied CASK, a member of the membrane-associated guanylate kinase homologues family of adaptor proteins. CASK has been shown to bind the erythrocyte isoform of protein 4.1, a class of proteins that promote formation of actin/spectrin microfilaments. In neurons, CASK also interacts via its PDZ domain with the cytosolic C termini of neurexins, neuron-specific cell-surface proteins. We now show that CASK binds a brain-enriched isoform of protein 4.1, and nucleates local assembly of actin/spectrin filaments. These interactions can be reconstituted on the cytosolic tail of neurexins. Furthermore, CASK can be recovered with actin filaments prepared from rat brain extracts, and neurexins are recruited together with CASK and protein 4.1 into these actin filaments. Thus, analogous to the PDZ-domain protein p55 and glycophorin C at the erythrocyte membrane, a similar complex comprising CASK and neurexins exists in neurons. Our data suggest that intercellular junctions formed by neurexins, such as junctions initiated by beta-neurexins with neuroligins, are at least partially coupled to the actin cytoskeleton via an interaction with CASK and protein 4.1.
Recent work suggests a role for PDZ domains in the targeting of binding partners to specific sites in the cell. To identify whether the PDZ domain of neuronal nitric-oxide synthase (nNOS) can play such a role, we performed affinity chromatography of brain extract with the nNOS PDZ domain. We identified the carboxyl-terminal-binding protein (CtBP), a phosphoprotein first identified as a binding partner to adenovirus E1A, as a nNOS binding partner. CtBP interacts with the PDZ domain of nNOS, and this interaction can be competed with peptide that binds to the PDZ peptide-binding site. In addition, binding of CtBP to nNOS is dependent on its carboxyl-terminal sequence -DXL, residues conserved between species that fit the canonical sequence for nNOS PDZ binding. Immunoprecipitation studies show that CtBP and nNOS associate in the brain. When CtBP is expressed in Madin-Darby canine kidney cells, its distribution is primarily nuclear; however, when CtBP is co-expressed with nNOS, its localization becomes more cytosolic. This change in CtBP localization does not occur when its carboxyl-terminal nNOS PDZ binding motif is mutated or when CtBP is co-expressed with postsynaptic density 95, another PDZ domain-containing protein. Taken together, our data suggest a new function for nNOS as a regulator of CtBP nuclear localization.
Learned enhancement of EEG frequency components in the lower beta range by means of biofeedback has been reported to alleviate attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) symptoms. In order to elucidate frequency-specific behavioural effects and neurophysiological mediators, this study applied neurofeedback protocols to healthy volunteers, and assessed impact on behavioural and electrocortical attention measures. Operant enhancement of a 12-15 Hz component was associated with reduction in commission errors and improved perceptual sensitivity on a continuous performance task (CPT), while the opposite relation was found for 15-18 Hz enhancement. Both 12-15 Hz and 15-18 Hz enhancement were associated with significant increases in P300 event-related brain potential amplitudes in an auditory oddball task. These relations are interpreted as stemming from band-specific effects on perceptual and motor aspects of attention measures.
Tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) may play a deleterious role after brain injury. Here, we compared the response to traumatic brain injury in tPA knockout (KO) and wildtype (WT) mice after controlled cortical impact. At 6 h after trauma, blood-brain barrier permeability was equally increased in all mice. However, by 24 h specific gravity measurements of brain edema were significantly worse in WT mice than in KO mice. At 1 and 2 days post-trauma, mice showed deficits in rotarod performance, but by day 7 all mice recovered motor function and there were no differences between WT and KO mice. At 7 days, cortical lesion volumes were significantly reduced in KO mice compared with WT mice. However, there were no significant differences in CA3 hippocampal neuron survival. These data suggest that tPA amplifies cortical brain damage and edema in this mouse model of traumatic brain injury.
In the present transectional study, Fas ligand (Fas-L) levels, either in membrane or in soluble form, in cells from multiple sclerosis (MS) patients were investigated. Expression of Fas was evaluated after PHA stimulation of peripheral blood mononuclear cells from MS patients with relapsing-remitting or secondary-progressive disease, and in healthy donors. There was statistically significant decreased expression (p = 0.001), as well as release of Fas-L, (p = 0.045) in lymphocytes from MS patients, in comparison with healthy donors. Moreover, levels of Fas-L production were inversely correlated with the EDSS scores of patients in an highly significant way. Impairment of Fas-L release in stimulated PBMC from MS patients might influence the ability to eliminate autoreactive clones in vivo.
Anoxic stress attenuates NMDA-induced pial arteriolar dilation via a mechanism involving actions of cyclooxygenase (COX)-derived reactive oxygen species (ROS). We examined whether the selective COX-2 inhibitor NS398 would protect neuronal function after global hypoxia/ischemia (H/I) in piglets. Pial arteriolar responses to NMDA (10-100 micromol/l) were determined using intravital microscopy in anesthetized piglets before and 1 h after H/I. Study groups received vehicle, 0.3, 1, or 5 mg/kg NS398, or 0.3 mg/kg indomethacin (n = 7, 6, 6, 5 and 8, respectively) i.v. 20 min prior to H/I. H/I reduced NMDA- induced dilation to 44 +/- 6% (100 micromol/l NMDA, mean +/- s.e.m.) of the pre-ischemic response in vehicle animals (p &lt; 0.05). However, NS398 dose-dependently protected arteriolar dilation to NMDA (77 +/- 8, 81 +/- 16, and 102 +/- 10% preservation at 0.3, 1 and 5 mg/kg, respectively). Indomethacin caused similar preservation. However, indomethacin but not NS398 reduced serum thromboxane B(2) levels to undetectable values. In conclusion, COX-2 appears to be a major source of ROS in the piglet cerebral cortex after H/I.
Patients with parkinsonism-dementia complex (PDC) of Guam showed moderate loss of choline acetyl transferase activity in the midfrontal and inferior parietal cortex, and severe loss in the superior temporal cortex. This deficit was similar to that seen in Alzheimer's disease and less severe than Lewy body disease. Thus, cholinergic deficits in the neocortex might contribute to some of the cognitive alterations in PDC of Guam.
To detect retinotopic activation in the human V5/MT, we obtained fMRI signals during optokinetic responses (OKR). We used two types of patterns, consisting of random dots plotted in either the central or peripheral regions, to stimulate the central and peripheral visual fields, respectively. These patterns moved at a constant speed of 20 degrees/s rightward and leftward alternately. Subjects were required to track the patterns with their eyes. The two types of visual stimuli elicited different patterns of brain activation; the area with the most significant response to central visual field stimuli was located posteriorly to that responding to peripheral visual field stimuli.
We have completed the first large-scale gene expression study of acute spinal cord injury (SCI) in rat. Oligonucleotide microarrays containing 1,200 gene-specific probes were used to quantify mRNA levels, relative to uninjured controls, in spinal cords injured using a standard contusion model. Our results revealed a marked loss of neuron-specific mRNAs at the injury site. The surviving cells showed a characteristic inflammatory response that started at the injury site and spread to the distal cord. Changes in several mRNA levels were associated with putative regenerative responses in the spinal cord. Notably, phosphodiesterase 4, nestin, glia-derived neurite promoting factor, and GAP-43 mRNAs increased significantly. Other mRNAs clustered temporally and spatially with these regeneration-associated genes. Thus we have described global patterns of gene expression following acute SCI, and we have identified targets for future study and possible therapeutic intervention.


We studied the distribution of the calcium binding proteins calretinin and calbindin in the hippocampal formation of the rat brain by means of double-label immunofluorescence - confocal laser scanning microscopy. Colocalization of calretinin and calbindin occurred mostly in large neurons located in the alveus and stratum oriens of field CA1. Some double-labeled cells were observed in the transition area between field CA1 and the subiculum. Finally, double-labeled cells were present in the deep layer of the ventral subiculum. The cells in field CA1 co-expressing both proteins resemble neurons which in neurophysiological experiments by others have been identified as O-LM cells, and we believe that these co-expressing cells should be considered a distinct subpopulation of the calretinin and calbindin populations of GABAergic hippocampal interneurons.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the effect of prenatal exposure to morphine (5-10 mg/kg twice daily on days 11-18 of gestation) on bicuculline seizure susceptibility and to examine the interaction of prenatal morphine exposure and hormonal background in adult male rats. The data demonstrate that prenatal morphine exposure does not affect clonic but decreases susceptibility to tonic-clonic bicuculline seizures in intact male rats. Thus, the present data support our previous work demonstrating alterations in seizure susceptibility of adult morphine-exposed animals.
Chronic treatment of rat cortical slices with a relative low concentration of mitochondrial inhibitor malonate leads to cortical motoneuron (CMN) death. In the neurodegenerative disease amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) corticospinal neurons, CMNs projecting to the spinal cord, degenerate. In the present study we compared the effect of chronic mitochondrial inhibition on the survival of CMNs located in the dorsal cortical areas (including corticospinal neurons) with that on ventrally located CMNs (non-corticospinal neurons) in vitro. In the explant culture model used, the dorsally located CMNs were less vulnerable to a 2-week period of mitochondrial inhibition with malonate as compared to ventrally located CMNs. Treatment with 5 mM malonate resulted in 50% surviving CMNs in the dorsal part and only 16% in the ventral part. Neuroprotection of the CMNs could be achieved with co-administration of the non-NMDA antagonist CNQX, the NMDA antagonist MK-801, or the glutamate release inhibitor riluzole, suggesting that chronic energy shortage leads to excitotoxicity. In the dorsal cortical areas CNQX, MK-801, and riluzole had a neuroprotective effect on the CMNs, whereas in the ventral cortical areas only MK-801 was neuroprotective. The sensitivity to energy depletion and consequently excitotoxicity may be related to glutamate receptor density and subunit composition in various cortical areas, but also to the projection length and input of CMNs in vivo. The present investigation gives insight in mechanisms leading to excitotoxic cell death of CMNs and may therefore be important for the development of treatment strategies in protection and survival of cortical motoneurons in ALS.
Activation of group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluR) has been implicated in the pathophysiology of acute central nervous system injury. However, the relative roles of the two group I subtypes, mGluR1 or mGluR5, in such injury has not been well examined. We compared the effects of treatment with the newly developed, selective mGluR5 antagonist 2-methyl-6-phenylethynylpyridine (MPEP) and the selective mGluR5 agonist (R,S)-2-chloro-5-hydroxyphenylglycine (CHPG) in a rat intraluminal filament model of temporary middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAo). Rats were administered MPEP or CHPG i.c.v. beginning 15 or 135 min after induction of ischemia for 2 h. Infarct size was measured after either 22 or 70 h of reperfusion, and neurological function was quantified at 2, 24, 48 and 72 h. Treatment with MPEP or CHPG at 15 min reduced 24 h infarct volume by 61 and 44%, respectively. The neuroprotective effects were dose dependent. Delaying MPEP treatment until 135 min eliminated the neuroprotective effects. In other studies, using early MPEP treatment (15 min) at optimal doses, infarct volume was reduced by 44% at 72 h and this was correlated with significant neurological recovery. These data suggest that both MPEP and CHPG are neuroprotective when administered after focal cerebral ischemia. In separate, recent studies we found that although MPEP does act as an mGluR5 antagonist and blocks agonist induced phosphoinositide hydrolysis, it also serves as a non-competitive NMDA antagonist; in contrast, other results indicate that CHPG mediated neuroprotection may reflect anti-apoptotic activity. Therefore, both types of compounds may prove to have therapeutic potential for the treatment of stroke.
Gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) regulates the hypothalamo-pituitary-gonadal (HPG) axis in all vertebrates studied. GnRH neurons that regulate the HPG axis are primarily derived from progenitor cells in the nasal compartment (NC) and migrate along olfactory system derived fibers across the cribriform plate to destinations in the forebrain. Across their long and uncommon migratory route many factors are likely important for their successful development. Several classes of molecules are being studied for their potential influences on migration, including those related to cell surface interactions (membrane receptors, adhesion molecules, extracellular matrix (ECM) molecules, etc.) and those related to communication across distances (neurotransmitters, peptides, chemoattractant or repellent molecules). Of the classes of molecules associated with cell surface interactions, glycoconjugates with terminal galactose, are temporally and spatially expressed on olfactory fibers that guide GnRH neurons and may play role(s) in migration. Of the molecules associated with communication across distances, the neurotransmitter gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) is associated with the GnRH migration pathway and influences the position and organization of GnRH neurons in vitro and in vivo. Furthermore, galactose-containing glycoconjugates and GABA are associated with GnRH neurons in species ranging from humans to lamprey. In mice and rats, GABA is found transiently within a subpopulation of GnRH neurons as they migrate through the NC. One of the key elements in considering regulators of GnRH neuron migration is the diversity of GnRH synthesizing cells. For example, only subpopulations of GnRH neurons also contain GABA, specific GABA receptors, or select glycoconjugates. Similarly, treatments that influence GnRH neuronal migration may only affect specific subsets and not the entire population. It is likely that we will not be able to characterize the migration of all GnRH neurons by a single factor. By combining molecular inquiries with genetic models, single cell analyses, and an in vitro migration model, we are beginning to decipher one of the most critical events in the establishment of the reproductive axis.
Experimental evidence shows that the inability to attribute mental states, such as desires and beliefs, to self and others (mentalizing) explains the social and communication impairments of individuals with autism. Brain imaging studies in normal volunteers highlight a circumscribed network that is active during mentalizing and links medial prefrontal regions with posterior superior temporal sulcus and temporal poles. The brain abnormality that results in mentalizing failure in autism may involve weak connections between components of this system.
The small 11-kDa proteins of B19 parvovirus contain three proline-rich regions which conform to consensus Src homology 3 (SH3) ligand sequences present in signaling molecules within the cell. We have shown that the B19 11-kDa proteins specifically interact with the growth factor receptor-binding protein 2 (Grb2) in vitro. Mutation of prolines within one of the three SH3 ligand-like sequences decreases the binding of B19 11-kDa proteins to Grb2, suggesting that the proline-rich region is involved in the B19 11-kDa/Grb2 interaction. Therefore, the B19 11-kDa proteins may function to alter Grb2-mediated signaling by disrupting SH3 domain/ligand interactions. These results implicate the 11-kDa proteins in B19 pathogenesis through perturbation of normal cellular signaling pathways.

Acetylcholine serves an important modulatory role in the central nervous system. Pharmacological evidence has suggested that cholinergic activity can modulate central dopaminergic transmission; however, the nature of this interaction and the receptors involved remain undefined. In this study we have generated mice lacking the M1 muscarinic acetylcholine receptor and examined the effects of M1 deletion on dopaminergic transmission and locomotor behavior. We report that M1 deficiency leads to elevated dopaminergic transmission in the striatum and significantly increased locomotor activity. M1-deficient mice also have an increased response to the stimulatory effects of amphetamine. Our results provide direct evidence for regulation of dopaminergic transmission by the M1 receptor and are consistent with the idea that M1 dysfunction could be a contributing factor in psychiatric disorders in which altered dopaminergic transmission has been implicated.
We have studied the function of the major central olfactory pathway in fruit flies. Key elements of this pathway, the projection neurons (PNs), connect the antennal lobes with the lateral protocerebrum both directly and indirectly, the latter via the mushroom bodies (MBs). Transgenic expression of tetanus toxin in the majority of PNs and few MB neurons leads to defects in odor detection and male courtship. Considering behavioral data from flies lacking MBs, our results argue that the direct PN-to-lateral protocerebrum pathway is necessary and sufficient to process these experience-independent behaviors. Moreover, the involvement of an olfactory pathway in male courtship suggests a role of volatile attractive female pheromones in Drosophila.
The system N transporter SN1 has been proposed to mediate the efflux of glutamine from cells required to sustain the urea cycle and the glutamine-glutamate cycle that regenerates glutamate and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) for synaptic release. We now show that SN1 also mediates an ionic conductance activated by glutamine, and this conductance is selective for H(+). Although SN1 couples amino acid uptake to H(+) exchange, the glutamine-gated H(+) conductance is not stoichiometrically coupled to transport. Protons thus permeate SN1 both coupled to and uncoupled from amino acid flux, providing novel mechanisms to regulate the transfer of glutamine between cells.
We examined the expression of hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) mRNA and its receptor, c-met mRNA, in the dorsal root ganglia (DRG) and spinal cord of naive adult rats using in situ hybridization histochemistry (ISHH) and the reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) technique. HGF mRNA was expressed in 25.0% of DRG neurons and 80.5% of HGF mRNA-positive neurons expressed trkA mRNA. In the lumbar spinal cord, c-met mRNA signals were observed in the superficial layer of dorsal horn. These results suggest that the HGF/cMet system may be involved in sensory transmission.
The purpose of this study was to determine if the absence of guanylate cyclase-1 (RetGC1, GC1), a key visual phototransduction cascade enzyme that is expressed in both retinal photoreceptors and pinealocytes, disrupts light regulation of pinopsin mRNA levels in the chicken pineal gland. In this series of experiments, we compared levels of pinopsin and tryptophan 5-hydroxylase mRNA in the pineal glands of GUCY1*B (*B) and normal chickens housed under either cyclic light or constant dark conditions. The *B chicken carries a null mutation in the gene encoding guanylate cyclase-1 that results in blindness in these animals at hatching. The results of our experiments show (1) that the amount of pinopsin mRNA in *B pineal is significantly higher than the amount in normal pineal in both light and dark conditions, (2) that light induces an increase in pinopsin mRNA levels in *B pineal, (3) that the relative magnitude of the light-induced increase in pinopsin mRNA in *B pineal is not significantly different from that observed in normal pineal, and (4) that the changes in the regulation of pinopsin mRNA levels in *B pineal gland are not accompanied by changes in the circadian expression of tryptophan 5-hydroxylase mRNA. These results show that the absence of guanylate cyclase-1 expression in the *B pineal gland leads to a significant increase in basal levels of pinopsin mRNA in this gland but does not alter the magnitude of the increase in pinopsin mRNA levels that is observed as a result of light stimulation.
The search for the biological basis of learning and memory has, until recently, been constrained by the limits of technology to classic anatomic and electrophysiologic studies. With the advent of functional imaging, we have begun to delve into what, for many, was a &quot;black box.&quot; We review several different types of imaging experiments, including steady state animal experiments that image the functional labeling of fixed tissues, and dynamic human studies based on functional imaging of the intact brain during learning. The data suggest that learning and memory involve a surprising conservation of mechanisms and the integrated networking of a number of structures and processes.

We report a case of a 40-year-old female with continuous muscle stiffness and painful muscle spasms. The symptoms worsened over a two-week period after onset. Electrophysiological examinations revealed continuous muscle discharge, which was markedly reduced by intravenous administration of diazepam. High levels of anti-glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) antibodies were detected in both serum and cerebrospinal fluid, suggesting that the patient suffered from stiff-person syndrome. Steroid pulse therapy and immunoadsorption therapy alleviated the clinical symptoms and decreased the anti-GAD antibody titer. A chest CT revealed the presence of an invasive thymoma. Neither anti-acetylcholine receptor (AChR) antibodies nor symptoms of myasthenia gravis (MG) were observed. The patient underwent a thymectomy and postoperative radiotherapy. These treatments further alleviated the clinical symptoms. The present case is the first that associates stiff-person syndrome with invasive thymoma, and not accompanied by MG. The autoimmune mechanism, in this case, may be triggered by the invasive thymoma.
Serotonin 5-HT(2A) receptors have been implicated in psychiatric illness and the psychotomimetic effects of hallucinogens. In brain slices, focal stimulation of 5-HT(2A) receptors in rat prefrontal cortex results in dramatically increased glutamate release onto layer V pyramidal neurons, as measured by an increase in &quot;spontaneous&quot; (nonelectrically evoked) EPSCs. This glutamate release is blocked by tetrodotoxin (TTX) and is thought to involve local spiking in thalamocortical axon terminals; however, the detailed mechanism has remained unclear. Here, we investigate parallels in EPSCs induced by either serotonin or the potassium channel blockers 4-aminopyridine (4-AP) or alpha-dendrotoxin (DTX). DTX, a selective blocker of Kv1.1-, Kv1.2-, and Kv1.6-containing potassium channels, has been shown to release glutamate in cortical synaptosomes, presumably by inhibiting a subthreshold-activated, slowly inactivating potassium conductance. By comparing DTX with other potassium channel blockers, we found that the ability to induce EPSCs in cortical pyramidal neurons depends on affinity for Kv1.2 subunits. DTX-induced EPSCs are similar to 5-HT-induced EPSCs in terms of sensitivity to TTX and omega-agatoxin-IVA (a blocker of P-type calcium channels) and laminar selectivity. The involvement of thalamocortical terminals in DTX-induced EPSCs was confirmed by suppression of these EPSCs by micro-opiates and thalamic lesions. More directly, DTX-induced EPSCs substantially occlude those induced by 5-HT, suggesting a common mechanism of action. No occlusion by DTX was seen when EPSCs were induced by a nicotinic mechanism. These results indicate that blockade of Kv1.2-containing potassium channels is part of the mechanism underlying 5-HT-induced glutamate release from thalamocortical terminals.
The cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) is believed to play a pivotal role in dopamine (DA) receptor-mediated nuclear signaling and neuroplasticity. Here we demonstrate that the significance of CREB for gene expression depends on the experimental paradigm. We compared the role of CREB in two different but related models: l-DOPA administration to unilaterally 6-hydroxydopamine lesioned rats, and cocaine administration to neurologically intact animals. Antisense technology was used to produce a local knockdown of CREB in the lateral caudate-putamen, a region that mediates the dyskinetic or stereotypic manifestations associated with l-DOPA or cocaine treatment, respectively. In intact rats, CREB antisense reduced both basal and cocaine-induced expression of c-Fos, FosB/DeltaFosB, and prodynorphin mRNA. In the DA-denervated striatum, CREB was not required for l-DOPA to induce these gene products, nor did CREB contribute considerably to DNA binding activity at cAMP responsive elements (CREs) and CRE-like enhancers. DeltaFosB-related proteins and JunD were the main contributors to both CRE and AP-1 DNA-protein complexes in l-DOPA-treated animals. In behavioral studies, intrastriatal CREB knockdown caused enhanced activity scores in intact control animals and exacerbated the dyskinetic effects of acute l-DOPA treatment in 6-OHDA-lesioned animals. These data demonstrate that CREB is not required for the development of l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia in hemiparkinsonian rats. Moreover, our results reveal an unexpected alteration of nuclear signaling mechanisms in the parkinsonian striatum treated with l-DOPA, where AP-1 transcription factors appear to supersede CREB in the activation of CRE-containing genes.
This study investigated the mechanisms underlying the recently reported fast spreading acidification and transient depression in the cerebellar cortex in vivo. Spreading acidification was evoked by surface stimulation in the rat and mouse cerebellar cortex stained with the pH-sensitive dye neutral red and monitored using epifluorescent imaging. The probability of evoking spreading acidification was dependent on stimulation parameters; greater frequency and/or greater amplitude were more effective. Although activation of the parallel fibers defined the geometry of the spread, their activation alone was not sufficient, because blocking synaptic transmission with low Ca(2+) prevented spreading acidification. Increased postsynaptic excitability was also a major factor. Application of either AMPA or metabotropic glutamate receptor antagonists reduced the likelihood of evoking spreading acidification, but stronger stimulation intensities were still effective. Conversely, superfusion with GABA receptor antagonists decreased the threshold for evoking spreading acidification. Blocking nitric oxide synthase (NOS) increased the threshold for spreading acidification, and nitric oxide donors lowered the threshold. However, spreading acidification could be evoked in neuronal NOS-deficient mice (B6;129S-Nos1(tm1plh)). The depression in cortical excitability that accompanies spreading acidification occurred in the presence of AMPA and metabotropic glutamate receptor antagonists and NOS inhibitors. These findings suggest that spreading acidification is dependent on extracellular Ca(2+) and glutamate neurotransmission with a contribution from both AMPA and metabotropic glutamate receptors and is modulated by nitric oxide. Therefore, spreading acidification involves both presynaptic and postsynaptic mechanisms. We hypothesize that a regenerative process, i.e., a nonpassive process, is operative that uses the cortical architecture to account for the high speed of propagation.
Visual pathways to the amygdala, a brain structure critical for classical fear conditioning, were investigated. Conditioned fear was measured in rats as increased acoustic startle amplitude in the presence versus absence of a light or an odor paired previously with foot shock (fear-potentiated startle). Post-training lesions of both the lateral geniculate body (LG) and lateral posterior nucleus (LP) of the thalamus together, but not lesions of LG or LP alone, completely blocked the expression of fear-potentiated startle to a visual conditioned stimulus (CS) but not to an olfactory CS. These lesions also did not block contextual fear conditioning using startle or freezing as measures. Local infusion of 1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-6-nitro-2,3-dioxo-benzo[f] quinoxaline-7-sulfonamide disodium, an AMPA antagonist, into the visual thalamus immediately before testing also blocked fear-potentiated startle to a visual CS, suggesting that the lesion effects were not attributable to damage of fibers of passage. Iontophoretic injections into the LP of the anterograde tracer biotinylated dextran amine resulted in heavy anterograde labeling in two amygdala-fugal cortical areas: area TE2 and dorsal perirhinal cortex (PR), and moderate labeling in the lateral amygdaloid nucleus (L). These results suggest that, during classical fear conditioning, a visual stimulus can be transmitted to the amygdala via either lemniscal (i.e., LG --&gt; V1, V2 --&gt; TE2/PR) or non-lemniscal (i.e., LP --&gt; V2, TE2/PR) thalamo-cortico-amygdala pathways, or direct thalamo-amygdala (i.e., LP --&gt; L) projections.
It has been suggested that NMDA receptor-dependent synaptic strengthening, like that observed after long-term potentiation (LTP), is a mechanism by which experience modifies responses in the neocortex. We report here that patterned (theta burst) stimulation of the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus reliably induces LTP of field potentials (FPs) evoked in primary visual cortex (Oc1) of adult rats in vivo. The response enhancement is saturable, long-lasting, and dependent on NMDA receptor activation. To determine the laminar locus of these changes, current source density (CSD) analysis was performed on FP profiles obtained before and after LTP induction. LTP was accompanied by an enhancement of synaptic current sinks located in thalamorecipient (layer IV and deep layer III) and supragranular (layers II/III) cell layers. We also examined immunocytochemical labeling for the immediate early gene zif-268 1 hr after induction of LTP. In concert with the laminar changes observed in CSD analyses, we observed a significant increase in the number of zif-268-immunopositive neurons in layers II-IV that occurred over a wide extent of Oc1. Last, we investigated the functional consequences of LTP induction by monitoring changes in visually evoked potentials. After LTP, we observed that the cortical response to a full-field flash was significantly enhanced and that responses to grating stimuli were increased across a range of spatial frequencies. These findings are consistent with growing evidence that primary sensory cortex remains plastic into adulthood, and they show that the mechanisms of LTP can contribute to this plasticity.
The proper guidance of migrating growth cones relies on the balance of multiple guidance cues in the embryonic environment. In addition to guidance cues, growth cones are in contact with other substrates that may contribute to the pathfinding of neurons. For example, in the developing insect peripheral nervous system, pioneer neurons migrate on and between layers of the basal lamina. Previous studies have demonstrated that one basal lamina molecule, laminin, promotes outgrowth of many classes of neurons in vitro. In this study, the simple grasshopper nervous system was used to investigate the role of laminin in neuronal pathfinding. Laminin expression precedes axonogenesis of the Tibial (Ti1) pioneer neurons in the developing limb bud, and expression continues during outgrowth and guidance of the pioneer neurons. The role of a nidogen-binding motif on laminin was investigated using subunit-specific antibodies and peptides as blocking reagents in vivo. Antibodies and peptides that block the nidogen-binding site on laminin resulted in stalled Ti1 axon migration, predominantly at the precise location where they normally turn ventrally. After prolonged culturing, Ti1 axons remained stalled at the same location. Therefore, although Ti1 axons were capable of outgrowth in the presence of blocking reagents, they were not able to navigate an essential turn. This study indicates that the interaction of the Ti1 growth cone with the nidogen-binding site on laminin is vital for neuronal pathfinding in vivo and suggests that permissive cues may be essential for growth cone steering.
Cortical neurons innervate many of their targets by collateral axon branching, which requires local reorganization of the cytoskeleton. We coinjected cortical neurons with fluorescently labeled tubulin and phalloidin and used fluorescence time-lapse imaging to analyze interactions between microtubules and actin filaments (F-actin) in cortical growth cones and axons undergoing branching. In growth cones and at axon branch points, splaying of looped or bundled microtubules is accompanied by focal accumulation of F-actin. Dynamic microtubules colocalize with F-actin in transition regions of growth cones and at axon branch points. In contrast, F-actin is excluded from the central region of the growth cone and the axon shaft, which contains stable microtubules. Interactions between dynamic microtubules and dynamic actin filaments involve their coordinated polymerization and depolymerization. Application of drugs that attenuate either microtubule or F-actin dynamics also inhibits polymerization of the other cytoskeletal element. Importantly, inhibition of microtubule or F-actin dynamics prevents axon branching but not axon elongation. However, these treatments do cause undirected axon outgrowth. These results suggest that interactions between dynamic microtubules and actin filaments are required for axon branching and directed axon outgrowth.
The adult mammalian cerebral cortex arises from a complex series of neuronal migrations. The primitive layer known as the preplate is split into an outer marginal zone and an inner subplate by invading cortical plate neurons in an &quot;inside-out&quot; pattern of layering with respect to time of neuronal origin. In cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5)-deficient mice (cdk5(-/-)), the earliest born cortical neurons split the preplate, but later born neurons arrest below the subplate, resulting in an ectopic &quot;outside-in&quot; layer of neurons normally destined for layers II-V. We have pursued this analysis in cdk5(-/-) &lt;--&gt; wild-type chimeric mice coupled with experiments in cell culture. In vitro migration assays show no difference in migrational ability between embryonic cdk5(-/-) and wild-type neurons. In cdk5(-/-) chimeras, layers I and VI are made up of both mutant and wild-type genotype neurons, whereas layers II-V contain predominantly wild-type cells. In addition, a thin layer of neurons is found below layer VI, made up of cdk5(-/-) cells; bromodeoxyuridine labeling suggests that these neurons were destined for layers II-V. Scattered cdk5(-/-) cells are found throughout layers II-V, but these neurons are always found to be GABAergic. The findings suggest that Cdk5 is not required for migration of either the deepest cortical plate neurons or the GABAergic neurons from the ganglionic eminences. The migration of layer II-V pyramidal neurons, however, is intrinsically blocked by Cdk5 deficiency, thus suggesting that different neuronal cell types use distinct mechanisms of migration.
The highly regulated expression of neurofilament (NF) proteins during axon outgrowth suggests that NFs are important for axon development, but their contribution to axon growth is unclear. Previous experiments in Xenopus laevis embryos demonstrated that antibody-induced disruption of NFs stunts axonal growth but left unresolved how the loss of NFs affects the dynamics of axon growth. In the current study, dissociated cultures were made from the spinal cords of embryos injected at the two-cell stage with an antibody to the middle molecular mass NF protein (NF-M), and time-lapse videomicroscopy was used to study early neurite outgrowth in descendants of both the injected and uninjected blastomeres. The injected antibody altered the growth dynamics primarily in long neurites (&gt;85 microm). These neurites were initiated just as early and terminated growth no sooner than did normal ones. Rather, they spent relatively smaller fractions of time actively extending than normal. When growth occurred, it did so at the same velocity. In very young neurites, which have NFs made exclusively of peripherin, NFs were unaffected, but in the shaft of older neurites, which have NFs that contain NF-M, NFs were disrupted. Thus growth was affected only after NFs were disrupted. In contrast, the distributions of alpha-tubulin and mitochondria were unaffected; thus organelles were still transported into neurites. However, mitochondrial staining was brighter in descendants of injected blastomeres, suggesting a greater demand for energy. Together, these results suggest a model in which intra-axonal NFs facilitate elongation of long axons by making it more efficient.
Na channel NaN (Na(v)1.9) produces a persistent TTX-resistant (TTX-R) current in small-diameter neurons of dorsal root ganglia (DRG) and trigeminal ganglia. Na(v)1.9-specific antibodies react in immunoblot assays with a 210 kDa protein from the membrane fractions of adult DRG and trigeminal ganglia. The size of the immunoreactive protein is in close agreement with the predicted Na(v)1.9 theoretical molecular weight of 201 kDa, suggesting limited glycosylation of this channel in adult tissues. Neonatal rat DRG membrane fractions, however, contain an additional higher molecular weight immunoreactive protein. Reverse transcription-PCR analysis did not show additional longer transcripts that could encode the larger protein. Enzymatic deglycosylation of the membrane preparations converted both immunoreactive proteins into a single faster migrating band, consistent with two states of glycosylation of Na(v)1.9. The developmental change in the glycosylation state of Na(v)1.9 is paralleled by a developmental change in the gating of the persistent TTX-R Na(+) current attributable to Na(v)1.9 in native DRG neurons. Whole-cell patch-clamp analysis demonstrates that the midpoint of steady-state inactivation is shifted 7 mV in a hyperpolarized direction in neonatal (postnatal days 0-3) compared with adult DRG neurons, although there is no significant difference in activation. Pretreatment of neonatal DRG neurons with neuraminidase causes an 8 mV depolarizing shift in the midpoint of steady-state inactivation of Na(v)1.9, making it indistinguishable from that of adult DRG neurons. Our data show that extensive glycosylation of rat Na(v)1.9 is developmentally regulated and changes a critical property of this channel in native neurons.
We studied paired-pulse depression (PPD) of GABA(A)ergic IPSCs under conditions of reduced transmitter release (caused by Cd(2+), baclofen, or reduced stimulus intensity) with whole-cell voltage clamp in CA1 pyramidal cells in vitro. The use-dependent model of paired-pulse responsiveness holds that a decrease in the probability of neurotransmitter release during the first stimulus will cause predictable changes in the paired-pulse ratio (PPR, the amplitude of the second IPSC divided by that of the first). However, the applicability of the use-dependent model to inhibitory synapses is controversial. Our results are inconsistent with this model, but are consistent with the hypothesis that random fluctuations in response size significantly influence PPR. PPR was sensitive to the extracellular stimulus intensity in all conditions. Changes in PPR were not correlated with changes in the first IPSC, but were correlated with changes in variability of the PPRs of individual traces. We show that spurious paired-pulse facilitation (PPF) can result from averaging randomly fluctuating PPRs because the method of calculating PPR as the mean of individual PPRs is biased in favor of high values of PPR. Spurious PPF can mask the intrinsic paired-pulse property of the synapses. Calculating PPR as the mean of the second response divided by the mean of the first avoids the error. We discuss a simple model that shows that spurious PPF depends on both the number of synapses recruited for release and the probability of release at each release site. The random factor can reconcile some conflicting published conclusions.
The ability of neurons to modify synaptic connections based on activity is essential for information processing and storage in the brain. The induction of long-lasting changes in synaptic strength requires new protein synthesis and is often mediated by NMDA-type glutamate receptors (NMDARs). We used a dark-rearing paradigm to examine mRNA translational regulation in the visual cortex after visual experience-induced synaptic plasticity. In this model system, we demonstrate that visual experience induces the translation of mRNA encoding the alpha-subunit of calcium/calmodulin-dependent kinase II in the visual cortex. Furthermore, this increase in translation is NMDAR dependent. One potential source for newly synthesized proteins is the translational activation of dormant cytoplasmic mRNAs. To examine this possibility, we developed a culture-based assay system to study translational regulation in neurons. Cultured hippocampal neurons were transfected with constructs encoding green fluorescent protein (GFP). At 6 hr after transfection, approximately 35% of the transfected neurons (as determined by in situ hybridization) expressed detectable GFP protein. Glutamate stimulation of the cultures at this time induced an increase in the number of neurons expressing GFP protein that was NMDAR dependent. Importantly, the glutamate-induced increase was only detected when the 3'-untranslated region of the GFP constructs contained intact cytoplasmic polyadenylation elements (CPEs). Together, these findings define a molecular mechanism for activity-dependent synaptic plasticity that is mediated by the NMDA receptor and requires the CPE-dependent translation of an identified mRNA.
Endocannabinoids are key intercellular signaling molecules in the brain, but the physiological regulation of the endocannabinoid system is not understood. We used the retrograde signal process called depolarization-induced suppression of inhibition (DSI) to study the regulation of this system. DSI is produced when an endocannabinoid released from pyramidal cells suppresses IPSCs by activating CB1R cannabinoid receptors located on inhibitory interneurons. We now report that activation of group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) enhances DSI and that this effect is blocked by antagonists of both mGluRs and of CB1R. We also found that DSI is absent in CB1R knock-out (CB1R(-/-)) mice, and, strikingly, that mGluR agonists have no effect on IPSCs in these mice. We conclude that group I mGluR-induced enhancement of DSI, and suppression of IPSCs, is actually mediated by endocannabinoids. This surprising result opens up new approaches to the investigation of cannabinoid actions in the brain.
The obese gene product leptin is an important signaling protein that regulates food intake and body weight via activation of the hypothalamic leptin receptor (Ob-Rb; Jacob et al., 1997). However, there is growing evidence that Ob-Rb is also expressed in CNS regions, not directly associated with energy homeostasis (Mercer et al., 1996; Hakansson et al., 1998). In the hippocampus, an area of the brain involved in learning and memory, we have found that leptin facilitates the induction of synaptic plasticity. Leptin converts short-term potentiation of synaptic transmission induced by primed burst stimulation of the Schaffer collateral commissural pathway into long-term potentiation. The mechanism underlying this effect involves facilitation of NMDA receptor function because leptin rapidly enhances NMDA-induced increases in intracellular Ca(2+) levels ([Ca(2+)](i)) and facilitates NMDA, but not AMPA, receptor-mediated synaptic transmission. The signaling mechanism underlying these effects involves activation of phosphoinositide 3-kinase, mitogen-activated protein kinase, and Src tyrosine kinases. These data indicate that a novel action of leptin in the CNS is to facilitate hippocampal synaptic plasticity via enhanced NMDA receptor-mediated Ca(2+) influx. Impairment of this process may contribute to the cognitive deficits associated with diabetes mellitus.
The purpose of this experiment was to assess the test-retest reliability of input-output parameters of the cortico-spinal pathway derived from transcranial magnetic (TMS) and electrical (TES) stimulation at rest and during muscle contraction. Motor evoked potentials (MEPs) were recorded from the first dorsal interosseous muscle of eight individuals on three separate days. The intensity of TMS at rest was varied from 5% below threshold to the maximal output of the stimulator. During trials in which the muscle was active, TMS and TES intensities were selected that elicited MEPs of between 150 and 300 microV at rest. MEPs were evoked while the participants exerted torques up to 50% of their maximum capacity. The relationship between MEP size and stimulus intensity at rest was sigmoidal (R2=0.97). Intra-class correlation coefficients (ICC) ranged between 0.47 and 0.81 for the parameters of the sigmoid function. For the active trials, the slope and intercept of regression equations of MEP size on level of background contraction were obtained more reliably for TES (ICC=0.63 and 0.78, respectively) than for TMS (ICC=0.50 and 0.53, respectively). These results suggest that input-output parameters of the cortico-spinal pathway may be reliably obtained via transcranial stimulation during longitudinal investigations of cortico-spinal plasticity.
Using a modification of Aghajanian and Rasmussen's techniques, we have developed an adult rat cervical spinal cord slice preparation in which motoneurons remain viable. Key factors are replacement of all sodium ions in the perfusion medium with sucrose during cutting and incubation, and gentle manipulation of the tissues to prevent root damage during removal. Intracellular recordings were confirmed as motoneuronal by intracellular injection of Lucifer yellow, allowing visualization of dendrites and cell body, and showing an axonal bleb at the cut end in the ventral root. Over 50 neurons were recorded for periods of between 30 min and 4 h. Cervical motoneurons (n=10) had an average membrane potential of -62 mV, average input resistance of 24 M(Omega), and showed no spontaneous activity. Ionophoresis application of the glutamate agonists, AMPA and NMDA, revealed potent excitation by AMPA but little or no response to NMDA. While NMDA receptors reportedly are prominent in developing rodent motoneurons, these observations indicate otherwise in the adult. Upon prolonged ionophoresis, or bath application, depolarizing responses to AMPA led to depolarization and spike inactivation that was often irreversible. The apparent lack of desensitization of AMPA responses, usually seen in other neurons, may underlie the unique vulnerability of motoneurons to excitotoxic damage.
DNA arrays are potentially powerful experimental tools within neuroscience but application of this technology to in vivo paradigms may, in practice, be limited by the sensitivity of transcript detection and inter-screen variation. Here we describe the use of brain punch micro-sampling, used in combination with commercially available cDNA arrays, for profiling brain gene expression in a mutant strain of rat (GAERS model of absence epilepsy). Furthermore, we describe a multi-step optimisation of analysis methods which provides for improved sensitivity and absence of bias in the selection of candidate genes which may be differentially expressed in the mutant. Our method has been validated through application to a second paradigm, rhythmic gene expression in the rat pineal gland. Our experimental design, and analysis method should therefore be generally applicable to subtle discriminations of transcript abundance within discrete brain areas.
The efficacy of anterograde labeling of the central projections of primary afferent fibers were compared between biotinylated dextran amine (BDA), neurobiotin (NB) and Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin (PHA-L) after injections into the L5 or T13 dorsal root ganglia (DRGs) of adult rats. Excellent labeling was obtained with BDA, which visualized fibers with fine terminal boutons in the L5 and T13 spinal cord segments, Clarke's nucleus and the gracile nucleus. Rarely observed crossed projections to the gracile nucleus and L5 ventral horn of the contralateral side could also be distinguished. Even in the most successful experiments, however, BDA labeled only about one-third of the axons originating from the injected dorsal root ganglion. BDA was also efficient as transganglionic tracer after application to the transected sciatic nerve. NB produced no significant labeling of the L5 primary afferents, and was only moderately effective on the T13 level. PHA injections resulted in sparse terminal labeling of the T13 and L5 afferents. Thus, BDA is an effective tracer for long-range labeling of primary afferent projections in the spinal cord and brain stem. Since not all stem fibers become labeled, however, the method does not allow quantification of all axon branches and terminals arising from the injected DRGs.
The use of chronically implanted electrodes for neural recordings in small, freely behaving animals poses several unique technical challenges. Because of the need for an extremely lightweight apparatus, chronic recording technology has been limited to manually operated microdrives, despite the advantage of motorized manipulators for positioning electrodes. Here we describe a motorized, miniature chronically implantable microdrive for independently positioning three electrodes in the brain. The electrodes are controlled remotely, avoiding the need to disturb the animal during electrode positioning. The microdrive is approximately 6 mm in diameter, 17 mm high and weighs only 1.5 g, including the headstage preamplifier. Use of the motorized microdrive has produced a ten-fold increase in our data yield compared to those experiments done using a manually operated drive. In addition, we are able to record from multiple single neurons in the behaving animal with signal quality comparable to that seen in a head-fixed anesthetized animal. We also describe a motorized commutator that actively tracks animal rotation based on a measurement of torque in the tether.
Iron accumulation in the brain occurs in a number of neurodegenerative diseases. Two new iron transport proteins have been identified that may help elucidate the mechanism of abnormal iron accumulation. The Divalent Metal Transporter 1 (DMT1), is responsible for iron uptake from the gut and transport from endosomes. The Metal Transport Protein 1 (MTP1) promotes iron export. In this study we determined the cellular and regional expression of these two transporters in the brains of normal adult and Belgrade rats. Belgrade rats have a defect in DMT1 that is associated with lower levels of iron in the brain. In the normal rat, DMT1 expression is highest in neurons in the striatum, cerebellum, thalamus, ependymal cells lining the third ventricle, and vascular cells throughout the brain. The staining in the ependymal cells and endothelial cells suggests that DMT1 has an important role in iron transport into the brain. In Belgrade rats, there is generalized decrease in immunodetectable DMT1 compared to normal rats except in the ependymal cells. This decrease in immunoreactivity, however, was absent on immunoblots. The immunoblot analysis indicates that this protein did not upregulate to compensate for the chronic defect in iron transport. MTP1 staining is found in most brain regions. MTP1 expression in the brain is robust in pyramidal neurons of the cerebral cortex but is not detected in the vascular endothelial cells and ependymal cells. MTP1 staining in Belgrade rats was decreased compared to normal, but similar to DMT1 this decrease was not corroborated by immunoblotting. These results indicate that DMT1 and MTP1 are involved in brain iron transport and this involvement is regionally and cellularly specific.
Intracellular membrane trafficking plays an essential role in the biogenesis and maintenance of myelin. Members of the Rab protein family are important components of the systems that regulate intracellular vesicle transport. We examine the function of rRab22b, a novel rat Rab protein cloned from an oligodendrocyte cDNA library, by visualizing and identifying in living Hela cells the organelles that contain rRab22b. Our results show that rRab22b is present in the trans Golgi/TGN and endocytic compartments. Trafficking of membranes from trans Golgi to endocytic compartments takes place via small tubulo vesicular organelles containing rRab22b. The formation of vesicles in the trans Golgi also appears to be regulated by rRab22b. Additionally, our results suggest that rRab22b controls the transport of vesicles from the trans Golgi to endocytic compartments that localize in oligodendrocyte processes. That rRab22b is involved in the transport of certain proteins from trans Golgi to myelin is suggested by the evidence that certain proteins being targeted to the plasma membrane are first transported from trans Golgi to endocytic compartments.
The effects of glutamate on [U-(13)C]glucose metabolism were studied in cerebellar astrocytes using (13)C magnetic resonance spectroscopy. Labeled glutamate, glutamine, aspartate, lactate, and alanine were observed both in the cell extracts and in media, and, additionally, labeled glycogen was detected in the cell extracts. However, only labeled lactate and alanine were quantifiable in the medium in addition to [U-(13)C]glucose. In the presence of unlabeled glutamate, the amount of [U-(13)C]glucose removed from the medium was decreased, indicating that glutamate might spare glucose as an energy substrate and thus decrease the uptake of glucose. Labeled glycogen, [4,5-(13)C]glutamate, [3,4,5-(13)C]glutamate, [3,4-(13)C]aspartate, and [U-(13)C]alanine were increased in the presence of glutamate. However, the increase in the amount of [3,4,5-(13)C]glutamate from the second turn in the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle was less pronounced than that of [4,5-(13)C]glutamate from the first turn in the TCA cycle. This indicates the dilution of label, probably resulting from the synthesis of unlabeled oxaloacetate from glutamate in the TCA cycle. Furthermore, exogenous glutamate had an inhibiting effect on pyruvate carboxylation, presumably by formation of oxaloacetate from 2-oxoglutarate derived from glutamate. It could be shown that glucose is a better substrate for energy production than glutamate; it is, however, less efficient in labeling amino acids than glutamate in cerebellar astrocytes.
The nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB family of transcription factors plays important roles in the regulation of many activities of neuronal cells, such as synaptic transmission, inflammation, neuroprotection, and neurotoxicity. In resting cells, NF-kappaB activity is present both in the cytoplasm, as an inducible-inactive complex, and in the nucleus, as a constitutive form. Regulation of its inducible activity relies on processing of IkappaB(s), which occurs through the proteasome. Here we show that in cerebellar granule cells (CGC) the induction of apoptosis, by potassium withdrawal (5 mM KCl), decreases the amount of nuclear NF-kappaB. To understand whether NF-kappaB was required for CGC survival, these cells, maintained under depolarizing conditions (25 mM KCl and serum), were treated with proteasome inhibitors. The results show that these treatments reduce the nuclear amount of NF-kappaB and increase p65 cytoplasmic levels, a process partially regulated via IkappaBalpha degradation. These events are also associated with an impairment in CGC survival, with changes in nuclear morphology, induction of DNA laddering, and oligonucleosome formation, consistent with apoptosis. According to the K+ deprivation model, PSI-induced apoptosis is reversed by inhibitors of transcription and translation as well as by specific caspase inhibitors. Together our results show an important role for NF-kappaB in maintaining CGC survival. Indeed, under conditions of mild depolarization (K25) necessary for CGC survival, NF-kappaB is distributed between cytosol and nucleus, whereas, under apoptotic conditions (K5), it is depleted from the nucleus, such as after proteasome inhibitor treatment. Therefore, NF-kappaB nuclear deprivation is involved in the induction of CGC apoptosis.
The Eph receptor ligands, the ephrins, are membrane-bound molecules that play important roles in establishing intercellular communication after neurogenesis by regulating cell migration, axon pathfinding, and topographic mapping. In diverse systems, such as embryonic day 17.5 (E17.5) hippocampal and cortical neurons, repulsive/inhibitory mechanisms underlie these cellular effects. However, although ligand/receptor expression occurs far earlier, during brain neurogenesis, little is known about potential ephrin functions in initial process outgrowth. We have examined ligand/receptor expression in E13.5 cortex in vivo and in culture, using alkaline phosphatase (AP)-conjugated reagents and RNase protection assay. B ephrins are highly expressed, including B1, B2, and B3, whereas A ephrins exhibit low expression levels. In contrast, the Eph receptors demonstrate an opposite pattern, exhibiting high levels of Eph A3, A4, and A5 mRNA transcripts and low levels of the B-class receptors. To examine effects on neurite outgrowth, soluble ephrins were incubated with antihuman IgG antibody, producing oligomeric agonist complexes, and dried onto culture dishes. Unexpectedly, both ephrin A and B complexes increased process outgrowth: Seventy to eighty percent of neuronal precursors exhibited long neurites on ephrins, whereas only 5-10% of cells had neurites on IgG control substrates, indicating that ephrins stimulated neuritogenesis by early cortical neurons. These observations suggest that ephrin ligand/receptor systems play ontogenetic roles not previously considered, activating mechanisms other than cellular repulsion. Ephrin systems may induce initial process elaboration by early cortical neurons that is restricted at later stages by well-characterized repulsive signaling mechanisms.
Differences in the time-of-arrival of sounds at the two ears, or interaural temporal disparities (ITDs), constitute one of the major binaural cues that underlie our ability to localize sounds in space. In addition, ITDs contribute to our ability to detect and to discriminate sounds, such as speech, in noisy environments. For low-frequency signals, ITDs are conveyed primarily by &quot;cycle-by-cycle&quot; disparities present in the fine-structure of the waveform. For high-frequency signals, ITDs are conveyed by disparities within the time-varying amplitude, or envelope, of the waveform. The results of laboratory studies conducted over the past few decades indicate that ITDs within the envelopes of high-frequency are less potent than those within the fine-structure of low-frequency stimuli. This is true for both measures of sensitivity to changes in ITD and for measures of the extent of the perceived lateral displacement of sounds containing ITDs. Colburn and Esquissaud (1976) hypothesized that it is differences in the specific aspects of the waveform that are coded neurally within each monaural (single ear) channel that account for the greater potency of ITDs at low frequencies rather than any differences in the more central binaural mechanisms that serve these different frequency regions. In this review, the results of new studies are reported that employed special high-frequency &quot;transposed&quot; stimuli that were designed to provide the high-frequency channels of the binaural processor with envelope-based information that mimics waveform-based information normally available only in low-frequency channels. The results demonstrate that these high-frequency transposed stimuli (1) yield sensitivity to ITDs that approaches, or is equivalent to, that obtained with &quot;conventional&quot; low-frequency stimuli and (2) yield large extents of laterality that are similar to those measured with conventional low-frequency stimuli. These findings suggest that by providing the high-frequency channels of the binaural processor with information that mimics that normally available only at low frequencies, the potency of ITDs in the two frequency regions can be made to be similar, if not identical. These outcomes provide strong support for Colburn and Esquissaud's (1976) hypothesis. The use of high-frequency transposed stimuli, in both behavioral and physiological investigations offers the promise of new and important insights into the nature of binaural processing.
1. The organization and pattern of cutaneous reflex modulation during rhythmic cyclical movements of the human upper limbs has received much less attention than that afforded the lower limb. Our working hypothesis is that control mechanisms underlying the modulation of cutaneous reflex amplitude during rhythmic arm movement are similar to those that control reflex modulation in the leg. Thus, we hypothesized that cutaneous reflexes would show task dependency and nerve specificity in the upper limb during rhythmic cyclical arm movement as has been demonstrated in the human lower limb. 2. EMG was recorded from 10 muscles crossing the human shoulder, elbow and wrist joints while bilateral whole arm rhythmic cyclical movements were performed on a custom-made, hydraulic apparatus. 3. Cutaneous reflexes were evoked with trains (5 x 1.0 ms pulses at 300 Hz) of electrical stimulation delivered at non-noxious intensities (approximately 2 x threshold for radiating parasthesia) to the superficial radial, median and ulnar nerves innervating the hand. 4. Cutaneous reflexes were typically modulated with the movement cycle (i.e. phase dependency was observed). There was evidence for nerve specificity of cutaneous reflexes during rhythmic movement of the upper limbs. Task-dependent modulation was also seen as cutaneous reflexes were of larger amplitude or inhibitory (reflex reversal) during arm cycling as compared to static contraction. 5. While there are some differences in the patterns of cutaneous reflex modulation seen between the arms and legs, it is concluded that cutaneous reflexes are modulated similarly in the upper and lower limbs implicating similar motor control mechanisms.
1. Subthreshold-operating transient (A-type) K(+) currents (I(SA)s) are important in regulating neuronal firing frequency and in the modulation of incoming signals in dendrites. It is now known that Kv4 proteins are the principal, or pore-forming, subunits of the channels mediating I(SA)s(.) In addition, accessory subunits of Kv4 channels have also been identified. These either have no effect or slow down the inactivation kinetics of Kv4 channels. However, in many neuronal populations the I(SA) is faster, not slower, than the current generated by channels containing only Kv4 proteins. 2. Evidence is presented for the presence in rat cerebellar mRNA of transcripts encoding a molecular factor, termed KAF, that accelerates the kinetics of Kv4 channels. Size-fractionation of cerebellar mRNA in sucrose gradients separated the high molecular weight mRNAs (4-7 kb) encoding KAF from the low molecular weight ones (1.5-3 kb) encoding factors that slow down the inactivation kinetics of Kv4 channels. The latter were identified as KChIPs using anti-KChIP antisense oligonucleotides. 3. Both anti-KChIP and anti-Kv4 antisense oligonucleotides failed to eliminate KAF's activity from the high molecular weight mRNA fraction, thus suggesting that KAF might be a novel subunit(s) that can contribute to generating native I(SA) channel diversity. 4. The time course of the currents expressed by KAF-modified Kv4 channels resembles more closely the time course of the native I(SA) in cerebellar granule cells.
Platelet [14C]serotonin uptake, the density of serotonin transporters and 5HT(2) receptors, and 5HT(2) and alpha(2) receptor function in platelets were investigated in 29 outpatients (15 women and 14 men) diagnosed as having a major affective disorder (21 bipolar and 8 unipolar). The data were compared with data for 26 healthy volunteers matched for age, sex and season. No differences were found in the mean values for the uptake velocity (V(max)) and the affinity (K(m)) of the transport carrier for serotonin between patients and controls. However, female patients had lower V(max) compared to male patients and female control subjects. A positive correlation between plasma lithium and V(max) and a tendency toward a negative correlation between plasma lithium and K(m) was observed. Furthermore, there were no differences in platelet B(max) and K(d) for [3H]paroxetine binding and K(d) for [3H]LSD binding between patients and controls. However, there was an increased number of platelet 5-HT(2) receptors and a difference in serotonin-mediated potentiation of platelet ATP secretion between patients compared to controls, especially in women. The findings in the present study suggest that lithium has a net ameliorating impact on serotonin uptake which may render it resistant to change. They also postulate that the effect of lithium may be attained by a dual influence on postsynaptic serotonergic structures, as it increases both the density and the sensitivity of 5-HT(2) receptors.
There is increasing interest in the role of the brain angiotensin AT4 receptor subtype in cognitive processing. This receptor subtype is activated by angiotensin IV (AngIV), is heavily distributed in the mammalian hippocampus, neocortex, and cerebellum, and has been linked with a learning and memory function. The present investigation utilized intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.)-infused scopolamine hydrobromide (scop), a muscarinic receptor antagonist, to disrupt acquisition of the circular water maze task of spatial memory. All animals received 2 days of training trials (five trials/day) using a visible platform in an effort to preclude subsequent confounding by scopolamine-induced sensory and/or motor impairments. In the first experiment, i.c.v.-infused scopolamine (70 nmol) was followed by 0, 10, 100, or 1000 pmol i.c.v. doses of Nle(1)-AngIV in separate groups of rats. Results indicated that each dose of Nle(1)-AngIV improved the poor acquisition of this task induced by scopolamine treatment. However, the 100- and 1000-pmol doses were most effective with respect to latency and distance to find the submerged pedestal. A second experiment demonstrated that treatment with a specific AT4 receptor antagonist, Nle(1), Leual(3)-AngIV (1000 pmol), blocked the ability of Nle(1)-AngIV (100 pmol) to improve the performance of scopolamine-compromised rats. These results support the notion that hippocampal AT4 receptors are involved in spatial memory processing, and that activation of these binding sites can overcome the disruption of spatial memory accompanying treatment with a muscarinic receptor antagonist.


The current review advances the argument that it is nave to ascribe a unitary function to the hippocampal formation (HPC). Rather, it is more productive to consider the hippocampal formation as consisting of a number of subsystems, each subsystem defined by its own particular neural circuitry. Among examples of neural circuitry appearing in current hippocampal literature are theta, beta and gamma oscillations, sharp waves, place cells and head orientation cells. Data are reviewed supporting the case that theta band oscillation and synchrony is involved in mechanisms underlying sensorimotor integration. Specifically, the neural circuitry underlying the production of oscillation and synchrony (theta) in limbic cortex and associated structures function in the capacity of providing voluntary motor systems with continually updated feedback on their performance relative to changing environmental (sensory) conditions. A crucial aspect of this performance is the intensity with which the motor programs are initiated and maintained. The ascending brainstem HPC synchronizing pathways make the primary contribution in this regard. These pathways originate in the rostral pontine region, ascend and synapse with caudal diencephalic nuclei, which in turn send projections to the medial septal region. The medial septum functions as the node in the ascending pathways, sending both cholinergic and GABA-ergic projections to the HPC. An updated version of the sensorimotor integration model including anatomical details is presented and discussed.
The long held view that the hippocampal formation is not only essential, but also solely responsible for declarative memory in humans (and by analogy non-human primates) has come into question. Based on extensive reciprocal connection patterns between the hippocampal formation and the orbitoventromedial prefrontal cortex in primates and rats, a central role for the hippocampal formation in the attentional control of behavior is emerging. In this paper, evidence is reviewed showing that the hippocampal-orbitomedial prefrontal cortex circuit may be involved in attentional monitoring of the internal sensorium. This attentional monitoring system, in a sense, is the working memory of viscero-emotional processing. The hippocampal formation can thus be viewed as a discrepancy detector with respect to the relative activational status of cognitive/emotional set in the orbitomedial prefrontal cortex. Discrepancies between the current representation of the internal milieu and the &quot;just-prior&quot; representation held &quot;on-line&quot; in orbitomedial prefrontal cortex associative working memory, are signaled from the hippocampus to the prefrontal cortex prospective attentional systems to activate, process, and reconcile internal (past) with external (present) environments, and finally to effectively alter active working emotional &quot;sets&quot; to exert cognitive-emotional control of behavior.
For years, the debate has been: &quot;Is the hippocampus the cognitive map?&quot; or &quot;Is the hippocampus the core of memory?&quot; These two hypotheses derived their original power from two key experiments--the cognitive map theory from the remarkable spatial correlates seen in recordings of hippocampal pyramidal cells and the memory theory from the profound amnesias seen in the patient H.M. Both of these key experiments have been reinterpreted over the years: hippocampal cells are correlated with much more than place and H.M. is missing much more than just his hippocampus. However, both theories are still debated today. The hippocampus clearly plays a role in both navigation and memory processing. The question that must be addressed is rather: &quot;What is the role played by the hippocampus in the navigation and memory systems?&quot; By looking at the navigation system as a whole, one can identify the major role played by the hippocampus as correcting for accumulation errors that occur within idiothetic navigation systems. This is most clearly experimentally evident as reorientation when an animal is lost. Carrying this over to a more general process, this becomes a role of recalling a context, bridging a contextual gap, or, in other words, it becomes a form of recognition memory. I will review recent experimental data which seems to support this theory over the more general spatial or memory theories traditionally applied to hippocampus.
Evidence has accumulated that the rat hippocampus plays a central role in spatial memory. In complement to lesion studies, reversible lidocane-induced inactivations have been used to investigate the time-course of the memory processes mediated by the hippocampus. A number of studies suggest that, in some conditions, the hippocampus is not necessary for online acquisition of spatial information. To test this hypothesis, we examined the effects of bilateral lidocane-induced inactivations of the dorsal hippocampus in the acquisition of new spatial information. After initial learning of a place navigation task in the water maze, rats were tested for acquisition of a new platform location and received injections of lidocane in the hippocampus prior to each daily four-trial block. The training blocks were separated by a 24-h period allowing the hippocampus to recover from inactivation. The results show that lidocane-injected rats were able to learn the new platform location like controls. Inactivations, however, was found to induce a within-block learning impairment. This suggests that the hippocampus can perform off-line processing and that another structure is able to handle spatial information during hippocampal inactivations. Parietal-lesioned rats that received an injection of lidocane were still able to learn the new platform location suggesting that the parietal cortex does not sustain this role. Overall, our results suggest that the hippocampus is not necessary for all stages of memory formation and co-operates with other brain, possibly cortical, structures which remain to be determined.
Animals navigate using cues generated by their own movements (self-movement cues or idiothetic cues), as well as the cues they encounter in their environment (distal cues or allothetic cues). Animals use these cues to navigate in two different ways. When dead reckoning (deduced reckoning or path integration), they integrate self-movement cues over time to locate a present position or to return to a starting location. When piloting, they use allothetic cues as beacons, or they use the relational properties of allothetic cues to locate places in space. The neural structures involved in cue use and navigational strategies are still poorly understood, although considerable attention is directed toward the contributions of the hippocampal formation (hippocampus and associated pathways and structures, including the fimbria-fornix and the retrosplenial cortex). In the present study, using tests in allothetic and idiothetic paradigms, we present four lines of evidence to support the hypothesis that the hippocampal formation plays a central role in dead reckoning. (1) Control but not fimbria-fornix lesion rats can return to a novel refuge location in both light and dark (infrared) food carrying tasks. (2). Control but not fimbria-fornix lesion rats make periodic direct high velocity returns to a starting location in both light and dark exploratory tests. Control but not fimbria-fornix rats trained in the light to carry food from a fixed location to a refuge are able to maintain accurate outward and homebound trajectories when tested in the dark. (3). Control but not fimbria-fornix rats are able to correct an outward trajectory to a food source when the food source is moved when allothetic cues are present. These, tests of spontaneous exploration and foraging suggest a role for the hippocampal formation in dead reckoning.
The relations between behavior, olfactory input (monitored by recording the activity of the olfactory mucosa), and the spontaneous field potentials of the dentate gyrus were studied in freely moving rats. Bursts of 30-80 Hz (gamma) waves were elicited in the dentate gyrus when a rat sniffed at a variety of objects but were not elicited by auditory, somesthetic, or visual inputs and were not related to the occurrence of locomotion. The presence of gamma wave activity was associated with an enhancement of the population spike elicited in the dentate gyrus by stimulation of the perforant path. Odorized air blown into a nostril via a cannula, inserted under light urethane anesthesia, elicited a gamma wave response bilaterally in the dentate gyrus. These and other data were reviewed to support the general hypothesis that the hippocampus is primarily an olfacto-motor mechanism and does not play any unique role in learning and memory, cognitive mapping, or emotion. The role of the hippocampus in the control of some forms of motor activity is supported by numerous anatomical and electrophysiological studies, studies of the effect of hippocampal lesions on behavior, and studies of the effects of electrical or chemical stimulation of the hippocampus on behavior.
We examined whether the postsynaptic responses of cells in the principal sensory nucleus of the trigeminal nerve (PrV) are subject to long-term changes in synaptic strength, and if such changes were correlated the whisker-specific patterning during and just after the critical period for pattern formation. We used an in vitro brainstem preparation in which the trigeminal ganglion (TG) and PrV remained attached. By electrically activating TG afferents, we evoked large-amplitude extracellular field potentials. These responses were postsynaptic in origin and blocked by the glutamate antagonist, DNQX. At P1, a time when barrelettes are consolidating, high frequency stimulation of their afferents led to an immediate (&lt;1 min) and long-lasting (&gt; or =90 min) reduction (35%) in the amplitude of the evoked response. At P3-7, when the pattern of barrelettes have stabilized, the same form of tetanus led to an immediate and long-lasting increase (40%) in the amplitude of the response. Both forms of synaptic plasticity were mediated by the activation of L-type Ca(2+) channels. Application of the L-type channel blocker, nitrendipine, led to a complete blockade of any the tetanus induced changes. These associative processes may regulate the patterning and maintenance of whisker-specific patterns in the brainstem trigeminal nuclei.
Glutamate is the main neurotransmitter in the olfactory bulb. Recently, postsynaptic-density 95 (PSD-95) and neuronal activity-regulated pentraxin (Narp) have been reported to be pivotal for targeting and clustering of NMDA receptors and AMPA receptors, respectively. We thus investigated the expressions of PSD-95 and Narp mRNAs in the rat developing olfactory bulb. PSD-95 mRNA was already expressed in most neurons on the first postnatal day (P1). On the other hand, Narp mRNA expression was weakly seen only in mitral cells on P1. Thereafter, we found initial expression of Narp mRNA on P7 in periglomerular cells, and on P14 in granular cells, indicating that in the developing olfactory bulb PSD-95 mRNA expression precedes Narp mRNA expression, and that the expression pattern of Narp mRNA seems to be well correlated with the maturation of the neurons. These results indicate that PSD-95 and Narp play important roles in making efficient excitatory synapses in the developing rat olfactory bulb, and suggest that olfactory neurons might first express PSD-95 for making efficient NMDA receptors and thereafter express Narp for efficient AMPA receptors.
Maturation of the nervous system and consequent behavior depends in part on prenatal nutritional factors and postnatal environmental stimulation. In particular, the hypothalamus and the hippocampus are two important CNS areas that are vulnerable to such pre- and postnatal manipulations. Therefore, the present study was undertaken to explore the effects of both prenatal protein malnutrition and neonatal isolation stress on hypothalamic and hippocampal functioning in infant rats. Specifically, we assessed the levels of plasma corticosterone, as well as dopamine, serotonin and their metabolites in both the hypothalamus and hippocampus in rat pups that had been prenatally malnourished (6% casein diet) and isolated from nest, dam, and siblings for 1 h daily during postnatal days (PND) 2 through 8. We found that on PND 9 malnourished pups weighed less, had smaller hypothalami and a suppressed corticosterone response to acute and chronic isolation stress. However, their dopamine metabolism in the hypothalamus was increased following acute isolation on PND 9 as seen in isolated controls. Prenatal protein malnutrition also resulted in a significant elevation in serotonin in both brain areas, increased 5HIAA in the hypothalamus, and decreased dopamine in the hippocampus. Repeated isolation caused a reduction in 5HIAA in both brain parts, but only in control pups. These pre- and postnatal challenges may each cause a specific pattern of modifications in the CNS and, in combination, may be additive, particularly in the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) stress response and the serotonergic functioning in both the hypothalamus and hippocampus, a finding with important clinical implications.
Mechanistic understanding of mammalian mRNA turnover remains incomplete. We demonstrate that the 3' to 5' exoribonuclease decay pathway is a major contributor to mRNA decay both in cells and in cell extract. An exoribonuclease-dependent scavenger decapping activity was identified that follows decay of the mRNA and hydrolyzes the residual cap. The decapping activity is associated with a subset of the exosome proteins in vivo, implying a higher-order degradation complex consisting of exoribonucleases and a decapping activity, which together coordinate the decay of an mRNA. These findings indicate that following deadenylation of mammal mRNA, degradation proceeds by a coupled 3' to 5' exoribonucleolytic activity and subsequent hydrolysis of the cap structure by a scavenger decapping activity.
In functional assays, A-315456, N-[3-(cyclohexylidene-(1H-imidazol-4-ylmethyl))phenyl]ethanesulfonamide, behaved as an alpha(1D)-adrenoceptor subtype selective antagonist (pA(2)=8.34) in the rat aorta. It was 83-fold less potent at the alpha(1B)-adrenoceptor subtype expressed in the rat spleen, and was inactive at the alpha(1A)-adrenoceptor subtype expressed in the rat vas deferens. Radioligand binding assays also revealed high affinity (pK(i)=8.71) for the alpha(1D)-adrenoceptor subtype and weaker affinities at the alpha(1A)-adrenoceptor (pK(i)=6.23) and alpha(1B)-adrenoceptor (pK(i)=7.86). In comparison to its potent affinity at the alpha(1D)-adrenoceptor subtype, A-315456 was 3020-, 794- and 38-fold weaker at the dopamine D(2)-, 5-HT(1A)-, and alpha(2a)-adrenoceptors, respectively. These studies indicate that A-315456 is a potent and selective alpha(1D)-antagonist that may serve as a useful pharmacological ligand to probe the physiological role of the alpha(1D)-adrenoceptor subtype in normal and disease states.
The present study investigated the effect of the administration of the GABA(B) receptor antagonists, SCH 50911 [(2S)(+)-5,5-dimethyl-2-morpholineacetic acid], CGP 46381 [(3-aminopropyl)(cyclohexylmethyl)phosphinic acid] and CGP 52432 (3-[[(3,4-dichlorophenyl)methyl]amino]propyl]diethoxymethyl)phosphinic acid), on spontaneous locomotor activity in mice. All drugs were acutely administered at the doses of 10 and 30 mg/kg (i.p.). The dose of 30 mg/kg of all drugs resulted in a significant stimulation of locomotor activity. The locomotor stimulation elicited by SCH 50911 was completely blocked by haloperidol (0.1 mg/kg, i.p.), suggesting that hyperactivity induced by blockade of the GABA(B) receptor is mediated by enhanced dopamine release. These results suggest the existence of a GABA(B) receptor-mediated tonic inhibition of dopamine neurons.
In Alzheimer disease (AD) brain, activities of protein phosphatase (PP)-2A/PP-1 which are known to be associated with microtubules are compromised and are probably a cause of neurofibrillary degeneration through hyperphosphorylation of microtubule proteins. In the present study, an increase of approximately 11 pmol phosphate/microg protein in 100,000 x g pellet from AD compared with age-matched control brains was found. Tau protein, which is hyperphosphorylated in AD can only account for approximately 4 pmol phosphate/microg protein, suggesting the presence of non-tau hyperphosphorylated proteins in the diseased brain. Western blot analysis with phosphoserine antibodies revealed a approximately 54 kDa non-tau protein to be significantly hyperphosphorylated in AD compared with age-matched control cases in the particulate fraction. The approximately 54 kDa protein was purified by preparative sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and identified as beta-tubulin by immunolabeling with specific antibodies, mass spectrometry analysis and by N-terminal amino acid sequencing. The purified protein was hyperphosphorylated at serine residues in AD.
Rapid entry of Ca(2+) or Zn(2+) kills neurons. Mitochondria are major sites of Ca(2+)-dependent toxicity. This study examines Zn(2+)-initiated mitochondrial cell death signaling. 10 nm Zn(2+) induced acute swelling of isolated mitochondria, which was much greater than that induced by higher Ca(2+) levels. Zn(2+) entry into mitochondria was dependent upon the Ca(2+) uniporter, and the consequent swelling resulted from opening of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore. Confocal imaging of intact neurons revealed entry of Zn(2+) (with Ca(2+)) to cause pronounced mitochondrial swelling, which was far greater than that induced by Ca(2+) entry alone. Further experiments compared the abilities of Zn(2+) and Ca(2+) to induce mitochondrial release of cytochrome c (Cyt-c) or apoptosis-inducing factor. In isolated mitochondria, 10 nm Zn(2+) exposures induced Cyt-c release. Induction of Zn(2+) entry into cortical neurons resulted in distinct increases in cytosolic Cyt-c immunolabeling and in cytosolic and nuclear apoptosis-inducing factor labeling within 60 min. In comparison, higher absolute [Ca(2+)](i) rises were less effective in inducing release of these factors. Addition of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore inhibitors cyclosporin A and bongkrekic acid decreased Zn(2+)-dependent release of the factors and attenuated neuronal cell death as assessed by trypan blue staining 5-6 h after the exposures.
The mechanisms that regulate oxidative phosphorylation in mammalian cells are largely unknown. To address this issue, cybrids were generated by fusing osteosarcoma cells devoid of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) with platelets from a patient with a stop-codon mutation in cytochrome c oxidase subunit I (COX I). The molecular and biochemical characteristics of cybrids harboring varying levels of mutated mitochondrial DNA were studied. We found a direct correlation between the levels of mutated COX I DNA and mutated COX I mRNA, whereas the levels of COX I total mRNA were unchanged. COX I polypeptide synthesis and steady-state levels were inversely proportional to mutation levels. Cytochrome c oxidase subunit II was reduced proportionally to COX I, indicating impairment in complex assembly. COX enzymatic activity was inversely proportional to the levels of mutated mtDNA. However, both cell respiration and ATP synthesis were preserved in cells with lower proportions of mutated genomes, with a threshold at approximately 40%, and decreased linearly with increasing mutated mtDNA. These results indicate that COX levels in mutated cells were not regulated at the transcriptional, translational, and post-translational levels. Because of a small excess of COX capacity, the levels of expression of COX subunits exerted a relatively tight control on oxidative phosphorylation.
Reflection is now a prerequisite for all nurses, midwives and health visitors (UKCC, 2001). It is the method endorsed by the UKCC to promote the development of informed, knowledgeable and safe practice, and qualified practitioners are required to maintain a personal professional profile containing evidence of reflection on practice. The aim of this article is to examine why qualified practitioners may be reluctant to reflect formally, to speculate on the possible barriers to reflection, and to suggest how reflection can be promoted positively as an integral part of nursing practice. The article begins with an examination of definitions of reflection, reflective theory and the purpose of reflection, and continues by questioning whether the concept of reflection has been embraced as eagerly by nurses at 'grass roots' as it has by academia, the nursing press and the UKCC. It is suggested that several barriers to effective reflection may create a division between practitioners and the professional hierarchy regarding the conceived common practice of reflection, and strategies are proposed that may help to overcome these barriers. The discussion concludes by prioritizing the need for a clear definition and concept analysis of reflection, supported by long-term investment into research that explores the effect of reflection on clinical practice and patient care.
Electrical stimulation of the vomeronasal organ in male hamsters activated Fos expression in neurons of the chemosensory pathways, as in experiments where animals were stimulated with female chemical stimuli. Fos was also activated in gonadotropin hormone releasing hormone (GnRH, or LHRH) neurons in the rostral medial preoptic region of the brain, a possible substrate for GnRH influence on chemosensory-dependent reproductive behavior.
PARP is a multifunctional protein that can affect genome stability, transcription control, telomere length and cell death. Recently we have reported that PARP binds to and enhances B-MYB transactivating potential. B-MYB is a potentially oncogenic transcription factor involved in mammalian cell proliferation, survival and differentiation. B-MYB gene expression is growth regulated and B-MYB protein is phosphorylated during S phase by cyclin A or E/cdk2 kinase, resulting in augmented transactivating potential. Here we show that PARP induces phosphorylation of B-MYB protein at cdk2 phosphorylation sites, since a B-MYB protein with mutated cdk2 phosphorylation sites is refractory to PARP-induced phosphorylation and co-activation in mammalian cells. We propose that PARP functions as a B-MYB co-factor by promoting cyclin/cdk2-dependent B-MYB phosphorylation. These results highlight a novel role for PARP as a factor that integrates cyclin-dependent kinases signaling with gene transcription.
What is the risk of thrombolysis in patients with acute stroke who might recover without treatment? In the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke rt-PA for Acute Stroke Trial, 2.6% of patients taking placebo showed spontaneous 24-hour recovery, compared to 11.5% of recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA)-treated patients (p &lt; 0.001). There were no symptomatic ICH in the patients taking placebo; one hypertensive, rt-PA-treated patient hemorrhaged. Assuming the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke protocol is followed rigorously, patients with acute stroke rarely recover spontaneously and the thrombolytic risk is low.
The two prominent nineteenth-century neurophysiologists/neurologists C.E. Brown-Squard and S.W. Mitchell maintained an active correspondence during their careers. These letters, never before studied as a unit, provide insight into the men's close collegial association in several domains. They shared camaraderie as pioneer physiologists who tried to bring experimental discoveries from the laboratory to the clinical setting. They critiqued each other's research and facilitated its publication in journals over which they had influence. Through letters of recommendation, they also helped foster each other's local careers. In a period of transition in neuroscience from a traditional anatomic focus to the emerging predominance of neurophysiology and neuropharmacology, their correspondence documents the views of two late nineteenth-century leaders in science and international academic medicine.

Detailed quantitative studies have demonstrated a topographical heterogeneity of nerve fibre densities in the cerebral arteries at the base of the brain as well as local changes in ageing and Alzheimer's patients. In this study, we test the hypothesis that local patterns of innervation are influenced by changes in flow fluctuations. This was investigated by inducing chronic anosmia and monitoring the nerve fibre density in the basal cerebral arteries in the adult rat. The olfactory epithelium was examined after staining with hematoxylin and eosin and showed a marked reduction of thickness in the anosmic group compared to the control group. The olfactory bulb was histochemically stained for succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) activity and showed a reduced staining in the anosmic group compared to the controls. Whole mount preparations of the basal cerebral arteries were immunostained for the general neural marker protein gene product (PGP) 9.5. The nerve fibre densities of the vessel walls were quantified by image analysis and expressed as area percentage and intercept density. This analysis showed a significant reduction in area percentage for the first part of the anterior cerebral artery, as well as for the second part of the anterior cerebral artery, and a significant reduction in intercept density for the second part of the anterior cerebral artery in the anosmic group. We conclude that peripherally induced anosmia decreases nerve fibre density in the anterior cerebral artery that may be due to a decreased metabolic activity in the rhinencephalon and, as a consequence, a reduction of flow fluctuations in the blood vessels supplying this area occurs.
Attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a highly heritable, common psychiatric disorder of childhood that probably involves several genes. There are several lines of evidence suggesting that the nicotinic system may be functionally significant in ADHD. First, nicotine promotes the release of dopamine and has been shown to improve attention in adults with ADHD, smokers, and nonsmokers. Second, ADHD is a significant risk factor for early initiation of cigarette smoking in children and maternal cigarette smoking appears to be a risk factor for ADHD. Finally, animal studies in rats and monkeys also suggest that nicotine may be involved in attentional systems and locomotor activity. The nicotinic system has previously been studied in schizophrenia where the neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor alpha 7 subunit gene (CHRNA7) has been implicated in decreased P50 inhibition and attentional disturbances in patients with schizophrenia and in many of their nonschizophrenic relatives. Three known microsatellite markers (D15S165, D15S1043, and D15S1360) near the nicotinic acetylcholine alpha 7 receptor gene, CHRNA7, were studied in 206 ADHD parent-proband trios of children aged 5-16 with ADHD according to DSM-IV criteria. Children with known major medical or psychiatric conditions or mental retardation (IQ &lt; 70) were excluded from the study. Markers D15S165 and D15S1360 were in linkage disequilibrium. The extended Transmission Disequilibrium Test analyses demonstrated no evidence that variation at the microsatellite markers D15S1360, D15S1043, and D15S165 influences susceptibility to ADHD. However, it remains possible that the CHRNA7 gene and other nicotinic system genes may be involved in conferring susceptibility to ADHD.
To gain insight into specific GABA(A) receptor configurations functionally expressed in the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS), we conducted several physiological and pharmacological assessments. NTS neurons were characterized in thin brain slices from 1-14 day old rats using whole-cell patch clamp recordings. GABA(A-) receptor-mediated currents were detected in all neurons tested, with an average EC(50) of 22.2 microM. GABA currents were consistently stimulated by diazepam (EC(50)=63 nM), zolpidem (EC(50)=85 nM), loreclezole (EC(50)=10.1 microM) and the neurosteroid 5alpha-pregnan-3alpha-hydroxy-20-one (3alpha-OH-DHP). In contrast, GABA-gated currents of the NTS were inhibited by the divalent cation Zn(2+) (IC(50)=33.6 microM) picrotoxin (IC(50)=2.4 microM) and blockade of endogenous protein tyrosine kinase. GABA-activated currents were insensitive to furosemide (10-1000 microM) in all NTS neurons tested. Collectively, the data suggest that in neonatal rats, the predominant alpha subunit isoform present in GABA(A) receptors of the NTS appears to be the alpha1 and/or alpha2 subunit. beta2 and/or beta3 subunits are the major beta isoform, while the predominant gamma subunit is likely gamma2. Our data suggest the contribution to NTS GABA currents by alpha3-alpha6, beta1, gamma1 and delta subunits, if present, is minor by comparison.
The distribution of iron in the brain of a vocal learning parrot, the budgerigar (Melopsittacus undulatus), was examined using iron histochemistry. In mammals, iron is a highly specific stain for the dorsal and ventral pallidal subdivision as well as specific cell groups in the brainstem, including the substantia nigra pars reticulata [Neuroscience 11 (1984) 595-603]. The purpose of this study was to compare the distribution of iron in the mammalian and avian brain focusing on pallidal and nigral cell groups. The results show that in the avian brain, iron stains oligodendrocytes, neurons and the neuropil. Cell staining changes dramatically along the rostrocaudal axis, with neuronal labeling confined to regions caudal to the thalamus and oligodendrocyte labeling denser in regions rostral to the dorsal thalamus. Many sensory forebrain regions contain appreciable iron labeling, including telencephalic vocal control nuclei. The dorsal and ventral subdivision of the avian pallidum, along with the basal ganglia component of the vocal control circuit, the magnicellular nucleus of the lobus parolfactorius, stain heavily for iron. Several brainstem regions, including nucleus rotundus, the medial spiriform nucleus (SpM), the principle nucleus of the trigeminal nerve, nucleus laminaris and scattered cell groups throughout the isthmus and pontine reticular formation stain intensely for iron. Within SpM neuronal labeling is more intense in the medial division while oligodendrocyte labeling is more intense in the lateral division. surprisingly no nigral iron staining was observed. Our results imply that iron is a conserved marker for the pallidum in birds and mammals, but that patterns of nigral staining have diverged in birds and mammals. Differences in iron staining patterns between birds and mammals may also reflect the relatively greater importance of the collothalamic visual pathways, pretectal-cerebellar pathways and specialized vocal learning circuitry in avian sensory and motor processing.
Layer I of the neocortex is a dense synaptic zone consisting of horizontal corticocortical and widespread layer VII projections, in addition to thalamic inputs. In order to determine the origin and extent of corticocortical and thalamocortical projections to layer I of the frontal/premotor area M2 of the rat neocortex, we have used fluorescent anatomical tracing methods to determine the precise sources of cortical and thalamic input to the rostral and caudal aspects of layer I of M2. Retrograde tracer diamidino yellow (DY), applied directly to the pial surface on rostral or caudal areas of rat M2 (RM2 and CM2, respectively) labeled cells ipsilaterally throughout layers II/III, V, and VII of the adjacent primary motor area and the parietal areas (SI and SII). In addition, retrograde transport labeled contralateral CM2 or RM2 in layers II/III and V at sites homotopic to either CM2 or RM2 application sites. Contralateral layer VII was retrogradely labeled by the application to layer I of CM2, but not by the RM2 application. Retrograde DY transport from layer I of RM2 or CM2 of was seen in the ventral medial (VM), ventral lateral (VL), and posterior (Po) thalamic nuclei. However layer I transport from CM2 additionally labeled the thalamic central medial (CM) nucleus, while the RM2 labeled the mediodorsal (MD) thalamic nucleus. Upon determination that thalamic nuclei VM and VL were of primary interest in this study, due to their dense retrograde labeling, injections of anterograde tracer rhodamine dextranamine (RDA) into VM or VL were performed in order to study the projection patterns of these nuclei to layer I of the frontal cortex. RDA injections into VM labeled fibers extending through layer I of both RM2 and CM2 and throughout the cingulate cortex. Injections of RDA into VL consistently labeled dense fibers in layer I of both CM2 and RM2, although labeling was sharply decreased anterior to CM2. This study adds to a growing body of evidence that projections to layer I from all sources of cortical input make a significant contribution to integration throughout the neocortex.
5-Hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)(1B) receptors mediate contraction in human pulmonary arteries, and 5-HT(1B) receptor-mediated contraction is enhanced in pulmonary arteries from hypoxic rats. Here we further examine the role of this receptor in the development of pulmonary hypertension (PHT) by examining (1) the effects of a 5-HT(1B/1D)-receptor antagonist (GR127935) on hypoxia-induced PHT (CHPHT) in rats and (2) CHPHT in 5-HT(1B)-receptor knockout mice. In rats, hypoxia increased right ventricular pressure and right ventricular hypertrophy and induced pulmonary vascular remodeling associated with an increase in pulmonary arterial wall thickness. GR127935 (3 mg. kg(-1). d(-1)) reduced all of these indices. 5-HT(1)-mediated contraction was enhanced in pulmonary arteries of the CHPHT rats. The effects of GR127935 on PHT indices were associated with an attenuation of the enhanced contractile responses to 5-HT and the 5-HT(1)-receptor agonist, 5-carboxamidotryptamine (5-CT), in isolated pulmonary arteries. In wild-type mice, hypoxia increased right ventricular hypertrophy, which was absent in 5-HT(1B)-receptor knockout mice. Hypoxia increased pulmonary vascular remodeling in wild-type mice, and this was reduced in the 5-HT(1B)-receptor knockout mice. Hypoxia increased 5-HT(1)-mediated contraction in pulmonary arteries from the wild-type mice and this was attenuated in the 5-HT(1B)-receptor knockout mice. In conclusion, the 5-HT(1B) receptor plays a role in the development of CHPHT. One possible mechanism may be via enhanced 5-HT(1) receptor-mediated contraction of the pulmonary arterial circulation.
Several effects of the proinflammatory cytokine, interleukin-1 beta (IL-1 beta), have been described in the central nervous system, and one area of the brain where marked changes have been reported is the hippocampus. Among these changes are an IL-1 beta-induced inhibition of long term potentiation (LTP) in perforant path-granule cell synapses and an attenuation of glutamate release in synaptosomes prepared from the hippocampus. Evidence suggests that, at least in circulating cells, the anti-inflammatory cytokine, IL-10, antagonizes certain effects of IL-1. We investigated the effect of IL-10 on IL-1 beta-induced inhibition of LTP and glutamate release. The evidence presented indicates that IL-1 beta stimulates the stress-activated protein kinase, c-Jun-activated protein kinase (JNK), and IL-1 receptor-associated kinase, which may explain its inhibitory effect on release and LTP, and that IL-10 reversed the IL-1 beta-induced stimulation of JNK activity and inhibition of release and LTP. We observed that IL-10 abrogated the stimulatory effect of IL-1 beta on superoxide dismutase activity and reactive oxygen species production, whereas the H(2)O(2)-induced inhibition of LTP was also blocked by IL-10. We present evidence that suggests that the action of IL-10 may be mediated by its ability to induce shedding of the IL-1 type I receptor.
The mechanisms that target various sodium channels within different regions of the neuronal membrane, which they endow with different physiological properties, are not yet understood. To examine this issue we studied the voltage-gated sodium channel Na(v)1.9/NaN, which is preferentially expressed in small sensory neurons of dorsal root ganglia and trigeminal ganglia and the nonmyelinated axons that arise from them. Our results show that the cell adhesion molecule contactin binds directly to Na(v)1.9/NaN and recruits tenascin to the protein complex in vitro. Na(v)1.9/NaN and contactin co-immunoprecipitate from dorsal root ganglia and transfected Chinese hamster ovary cell line, and co-localize in the C-type neuron soma and along nonmyelinated C-fibers and at nerve endings in the skin. Co-transfection of Chinese hamster ovary cells with Na(v)1.9/NaN and contactin enhances the surface expression of the sodium channel over that of Na(v)1.9/NaN alone. Thus contactin binds directly to Na(v)1.9/NaN and participates in the surface localization of this channel along nonmyelinated axons.
Astrocytic responses to activation of metabotropic glutamate receptors group I (mGluRs I) and alpha(1)-adrenoreceptors in cultured cells have been assessed using spectral analyzes and calcium imaging. Concentration-dependent changes were observed after stimulation with the mGluR I agonist (S)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG). These responses changed from a regular low frequency signal with sharp peaks at 1 microm to a pronounced stage of irregularity at 10 microm. After stimulation with 100 microm the signal was again homogenous in shape and regularity but occurred at a higher frequency. In contrast, the spectral properties after stimulation with the alpha(1)-adrenoreceptor agonist phenylephrine, exhibited considerable variation for all investigated concentrations. DHPG-induced increases in [Ca(2+)](i) were also associated with astroglial glutamate release, whereas no release was observed after noradrenergic stimulation. Both DHPG-mediated calcium signaling and glutamate release were inhibited by preincubation with 10 or 100 microm phenylephrine. Collectively, the present investigation provides new information about the spatial-temporal characteristics of astroglial intracellular calcium responses and demonstrates distinct differences between noradrenergic and glutamatergic receptors regarding intracellular calcium signaling and coupling to glutamate release. The noradrenergic modulation of DHPG-induced responses indicates that intracellular astroglial processes can be regulated in a bi-directional feedback loop between closely connected astrocytes and neurons in the central nervous system.
Anatomic structures have been linked to the mnemonic component of working memory, but the neural network underlying associated decision processes remains elusive. Here we present an event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging study that measured activity during the decision period of a delayed face recognition task. A double dissociation of activity between anterior cingulate cortex (ACC), and a network including left fusiform face area (FFA) and left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC), reflected whether a probe face matched the remembered face at the time of decision. Greater activity in the left FFA and left DLPFC correlated with probe faces that matched the remembered face; in contrast, activity in ACC was greater when the probe face did not match the remembered face. These results support a model where frontal regions act in concert with stimulus-specific temporal structures to make recognition decisions about visual stimuli.
Although functional neuromuscular junctions (NMJs) form in NCAM-deficient mice, they exhibit multiple alterations in presynaptic organization and function. Profound depression and unusual periodic total transmission failures with repetitive stimulation point to a defect in vesicle mobilization/cycling, and these defects were mimicked in (+/+) NMJs by inhibitors of myosin light chain kinase, known to affect vesicle mobilization. Two separate release mechanisms, utilizing different endocytic machinery and Ca(2+) channels, were shown to coexist in (-/-) terminals, with the mature process targeted to presynaptic membrane opposed to muscle, and an abnormally retained immature process targeted to the remainder of the presynaptic terminal and axon. Thus, NCAM plays a critical and heretofore unsuspected role in the molecular organization of the presynaptic NMJ.
Rhythmic gamma oscillations at 30-70 Hz in cortical and hippocampal slices depend on a maintained excitation and on interactions between interneurons and pyramidal cells. These interactions include gap-junctional connections between inhibitory cells and fast excitatory and inhibitory chemical synapses. Spike timing with precision in the range of several ms may be assured by biphasic signaling mechanisms operating at these different connections. Such temporal precision may be important in cognitive processing.
Several investigations have shown that illumination at night reduces melatonin level in the mammalian pineal, but the effect of night illumination on the retina is not known. In this study retinas were cultured in a flow-through apparatus and then were exposed to light at ZT 18. Light exposure reduced melatonin levels to the daytime level within 30 min. The reduction of melatonin levels was due to a rapid decrease in the activity of the enzyme AA-NAT; AA-NAT mRNA levels were not affected by illumination. Pre-incubation with lactacystin (25 microM) prevented light-induced reduction of AA-NAT activity and melatonin levels. These results demonstrate that melatonin levels in the mammalian retina are affected by light exposure at night, via proteosomal proteolysis of AA-NAT.
Integrity of early visual sensory processing in schizophrenia was assessed using the well characterized P1 and N1 components of the visual evoked potential (VEP) as our dependent measures. VEPs were recorded in response to successively less fragmented line drawings of common objects. P1 amplitudes were significantly reduced across all stimulus conditions for patients versus controls. Further, this decrement was relatively greater at parieto-occipital than occipito-temporal electrode sites. No differences in N1 amplitude were found. The finding of P1 deficits in patients, particularly over dorsal scalp, supports the view that schizophrenia is associated with impairment of early dorsal visual stream processing. On the other hand, the finding of normal N1 amplitudes in patients suggests that early stages of ventral stream processing may be relatively more intact. These results imply that the cognitive impairment seen in schizophrenia is not just due to deficits in higher order aspects of cognition but also encompasses significant deficits in early sensory processing.
We used positron emission tomography (PET) to test the hypothesis that illusory movement of the right wrist activates the motor-related areas that are activated by real wrist movements. We vibrated the tendons of the relaxed right wrist extensor muscles which elicits a vivid illusory palmar flexion. In a control condition, we vibrated the skin surface over the processes styloideus ulnae, which does not elicit the illusion, using the identical frequency (83 Hz). We provide evidence that kinesthetic illusory wrist movement activates the contralateral primary sensorimotor cortices, supplementary motor area (SMA) and cingulate motor area (CMA). These areas are also active when executing the limb movement.
The expression and localization of acidic fibroblast growth factor (aFGF; FGF-1) were examined in the spinal cord of patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and controls by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) method and immunohistochemistry. The RT-PCR experiments demonstrated that aFGF amplification products were clearly detected in all control cases but could be scarcely seen in ALS patients. aFGF immunoreactivity was detected in the anterior horn cells of the spinal cord. Double immunostaining for aFGF and choline acetyltransferase revealed that the majority (95.9%) of cholinergic neurons expressed aFGF. In ALS cases, the number and the staining intensity of aFGF-positive neurons were markedly decreased. These results suggest that aFGF is involved in ALS pathology.
Systemic administration of a dopamine D2 receptor blocker, haloperidol, but not vehicle, significantly increased the number of c-Fos-immunoreactive neurons in the globus pallidus (GP) in rats. Dual immunohistochemistry, a combination of c-Fos immunohistochemistry and retrograde tracing experiments with cholera toxin B (ChB), revealed that a subset of the c-Fos-immunoreactive GP neurons was pallidostriatal feedback neurons. Lesioning of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) by local injection of ibotenic acid inhibited the haloperidol-induced c-Fos expression in the GP neurons, suggesting that the activation of GP neurons is a result of increased excitatory drives from the STN. Therefore, the present findings are evidence of the existence of the subthalamo-pallido-striatal axis as a feedback system in the internal circuits of the basal ganglia.
Delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) has been shown to protect against focal and global ischemia. Hypothermia is thought to be one mechanism for this protection. These observations are important since brain hyperthermia is known to increase ischemic damage while hypothermia is protective. To establish the effect of THC on brain and body core temperature, brain and body temperature probes were inserted for chronic temperature monitoring (n = 20). THC treated groups were administered THC at either low (0.1 mg/kg) or high (10 mg/kg) dose for 1 week. Brain temperature was recorded during this period and for 1 week following the discontinuation of THC. Chronic administration of THC at either dose increased brain temperature (p &lt; 0.0001) but did not significantly change body core temperature (p = 0.4767) in the freely moving rat.
Steroid hormones synthesized in the brain, called 'neurosteroids', modulate neuronal activity. We treated neonatal rats with a main precursor of the neurosteroidogenesis, pregnenolone, and examined adenosine A2A receptor, 5- hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)1A and 5-HT7 receptor densities in the front-parietal cortex in juvenile and adult rats. In receptor binding assay using [3H]CGS21680 and [3H]8-OH-DPAT, it was shown that neonatal pregnenolone-treatment induced a significant decrease in the adenosine A2A receptor density with no significant effects on the 5-HT1A and 5-HT7 receptor densities.
The aim of this study was to determine whether hypoxic-ischemia from asphyxial cardiac arrest activates brain caspases-1 and -3, and the anti-apoptotic protein, XIAP. Asphyxial cardiac arrest in rats was used to induce hypoxic-ischemia. A pan-caspase inhibitor (zVAD) was given in the treatment group. At 72 h after reperfusion, caspase-3 and XIAP expression were present in multiple vulnerable brain regions, whereas caspase-1 was predominantly found in the CA1 hippocampus. zVAD significantly reduced expression of caspases and XIAP and the number of ischemic neurons in the CA1 hippocampus while neurological deficit scores were improved. We conclude that hypoxic-ischemia increases caspases-1 and-3, and XIAP expression. Treatment with zVAD significantly decreases caspase and XIAP expression in these brain regions and improves neurological outcome.
The capsaicin receptor (VR1) homologue, VRL1, is thought to be responsible for transducing high-threshold heat responses in Adelta-fiber neurons. In the present study, the expression of VRL1 by A- or C-fiber sensory neurons in rats was investigated by using a VRL1 and 200 kDa neurofilament (NF200, an A-fiber marker) double immunohistochemical staining method. Approximately 46% of VRL-positive neurons were NF200 positive. Though double-labeled neurons tended to be medium to large, many VRL1 single-labeled neurons were large. Dense VRL1 immunoreactivity was also found in laminae I and II of the spinal dorsal horn, where nociceptive Adelta- and C-fibers normally terminate. These results suggest that both C-fiber and Adelta-fiber primary sensory neurons express VRL1, and VRL1 may play an important role in nociception.
Changes in striatopallidal GABA are believed to play a significant role in the motor side effects produced by antipsychotic drugs (APDs). In the current study, we measured extracellular GABA in the globus pallidus (GP) of rats. GABA release was partially impulse- and Ca2+-dependent, as evidenced by decreased efflux following tetrodotoxin (TTX) or removal of Ca2+. In addition, GABA release was significantly increased by high K+ (100 mM KCl) stimulation. Reverse dialysis of the atypical APD, clozapine (1-100 microM), produced a concentration dependent decrease in extracellular GABA. In contrast, the typical APD, haloperidol (1-100 microM), had no significant effect on GABA levels. These results suggest that clozapine has direct actions within the GP, while the effects of haloperidol are most likely mediated through its effects in the striatum. The clozapine-induced decrease in pallidal GABA may account for its low motor side effect liability.
It has been proposed that associative learning is accomplished by the formation of cell assemblies and synchronous activity among the neurons of such an assembly. Induced gamma band responses (GBRs) and phase synchrony between electrode sites are discussed as a signature of activity within a cell assembly. To examine the activation of this network due to memory recall, a paired associate learning paradigm was used. EEG was analyzed in the frequency domain. Results showed a significant increase of induced GBRs at posterior and anterior electrode sites in the recall sequence of the learning condition. Furthermore, phase synchrony revealed a broad distribution pattern of phase synchrony between posterior and frontal electrode sites.
The mu-opioid receptor stimulates the activity of extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) in recombinant human embryonic kidney (HEK) 293 cells but this stimulatory response is abolished by prolonged opioid treatment. Chronic opioid treatment of the same cells has also been shown to induce adenylyl cyclase (AC) superactivation. This study examined the role of ERK1/2 activity in opioid-induced AC superactivation. Acute opioid treatment of HEK 293 cells expressing mu-opioid receptors resulted in the activation of ERK1/2, and this response was abolished in the presence of U0126, a MEK1/2 inhibitor. Despite a complete blockade of ERK1/2 phosphorylation, U0126 did not affect opioid-induced AC superactivation, indicating that ERK1/2 activity was not required for opioid-induced AC superactivation in HEK 293 cells.
To determine the possible therapeutic potential of neural stem cells (NSCs) introduced into the damaged central nervous system, we grafted adult hippocampus-derived NSCs into the hippocampus of rats with transient global ischemia. Transient four-vessel occlusion yielded 90-95% losses of pyramidal neurons in the hippocampal CA1 region. In this region, 1-3% of the grafted cells survived; and 3-9% of them expressed NeuN, a neuronal marker. Rats with more than 120 NeuN-positive cells showed partial improvement of impaired spatial learning in a water maze test. These results suggest that NSCs grafted in the ischemic brain are able to differentiate into neurons and to improve spatial recognition.
Chronic exposure to manganese causes Parkinson's disease (PD)-like clinical symptoms (Neurotoxicology 5 (1984) 13; Arch. Neurol. 46 (1989) 1104; Neurology 56 (2001) 4). Occupational exposure to manganese is proposed as a risk factor in specific cases of idiopathic PD (Neurology 56 (2001) 8). We have investigated the mechanism of manganese neurotoxicity in nigral dopaminergic (DA) neurons using the DA cell line, SN4741 (J. Neurosci. 19 (1999) 10). Manganese treatment elicited endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress responses, such as an increased level of the ER chaperone BiP, and simultaneously activated the ER resident caspase-12. Peak activation of other major initiator caspases-like activities, such as caspase-1, -8 and -9, ensued, resulting in activation of caspase-3-like activity during manganese-induced DA cell death. The neurotoxic cell death induced by manganese was significantly reduced in the Bcl-2-overexpressing DA cell lines. Our findings suggest that manganese-induced neurotoxicity is mediated in part by ER stress and considerably ameliorated by Bcl-2 overexpression in DA cells.
Olfaction plays a major role in host preference and blood feeding, integral behaviors for disease transmission by the malaria vector mosquito Anopheles gambiae sensu stricto (henceforth A. gambiae). We have identified four genes encoding candidate odorant receptors from A. gambiae that are selectively expressed in olfactory organs, contain approximately seven transmembrane domains, and show significant similarity to several putative odorant receptors in Drosophila melanogaster. Furthermore, one of the putative A. gambiae odorant receptors exhibits female-specific antennal expression and is down-regulated 12 h after blood feeding, a period during which substantial reduction in olfactory responses to human odorants has been observed. Taken together, these data suggest these genes encode a family of odorant receptors in A. gambiae, whose further study may aid in the design of novel antimalarial programs.
Hearing relies on active filtering to achieve exquisite sensitivity and sharp frequency selectivity. In a quiet environment, the ears of many vertebrates become unstable and emit one to several tones. These spontaneous otoacoustic emissions, the most striking manifestation of the inner ear's active process, must result from self-sustained mechanical oscillations of aural constituents. The mechanoreceptive hair bundles of hair cells in the bullfrog's sacculus have the ability to amplify mechanical stimuli and oscillate spontaneously. By comparing a hair bundle's spontaneous oscillations with its response to small mechanical stimuli, we demonstrate a breakdown in a general principle of equilibrium thermodynamics, the fluctuation-dissipation theorem. We thus confirm that a hair bundle's spontaneous movements are produced by energy-consuming elements within the hair cell. To characterize the dynamical behavior of the active process, we introduce an effective temperature that, for each frequency component, quantifies a hair bundle's deviation from thermal equilibrium. The effective temperature diverges near the bundle's frequency of spontaneous oscillation. This behavior, which is not generic for active oscillators, can be accommodated by a simple model that characterizes quantitatively the fluctuations of the spontaneous movements as well as the hair bundle's linear response function.
The auditory system's ability to interpret sounds over a wide range of amplitudes rests on the nonlinear responsiveness of the ear. Whether measured by basilar-membrane vibration, nerve-fiber activity, or perceived loudness, the ear is most sensitive to small signals and grows progressively less responsive as stimulation becomes stronger. Seeking a correlate of this behavior at the level of mechanoelectrical transduction, we examined the responses of hair bundles to direct mechanical stimulation. As reported by the motion of an attached glass fiber, an active hair bundle from the bullfrog's sacculus oscillates spontaneously. Sinusoidal movement of the fiber's base by as little as +/-1 nm, corresponding to the application at the bundle's top of a force of +/-0.3 pN, causes detectable phase-locking of the bundle's oscillations to the stimulus. Although entrainment increases as the stimulus grows, the amplitude of the hair-bundle movement does not rise until phase-locking is nearly complete. A bundle is most sensitive to stimulation at its frequency of spontaneous oscillation. Far from that frequency, the sensitivity of an active hair bundle resembles that of a passive bundle. Over most of its range, an active hair bundle's response grows as the one-third power of the stimulus amplitude; the bundle's sensitivity declines accordingly in proportion to the negative two-thirds power of the excitation. This scaling behavior, also found in the response of the mammalian basilar membrane to sound, signals the operation of an amplificatory process at the brink of an oscillatory instability, a Hopf bifurcation.
Alterations in peripheral myelin protein 22 (PMP22) gene expression are associated with a host of heritable demyelinating peripheral neuropathies, yet the function of the protein remains unknown. PMP22 expression is highest in myelinating Schwann cells of peripheral nerves; however, significant levels of PMP22 mRNAs can be detected in a variety of non-neural tissue, including epithelia. To date, PMP22 protein expression and localization in non-neural tissues have not been studied in detail. In adult rat liver and intestine, and cultured epithelial cells, we detected PMP22-like immunoreactivity associated with markers of the tight junctional complex, including zonula occludens 1 (ZO-1) and occludin. Upon disruption of intercellular contacts, PMP22 was internalized into vesicles that were immunoreactive for both anti-occludin and anti-PMP22 antibodies. Nonionic detergent extraction of cultured epithelial cells did not solubilize PMP22, as the majority of the protein remained in the detergent insoluble fraction, as did ZO-1 and occludin. We also observed the targeting of exogenous myc-tagged PMP22 to apical cell junctions in polarized epithelia and to anti-ZO-1 antibody immunoreactive cell contacts of L fibroblasts. These studies support a role for PMP22 at intercellular junctions of epithelia and may indicate a similar function in myelinating Schwann cells. Furthermore, our findings could provide an explanation for certain phenotypes of PMP22 neuropathy mice that cannot be accounted for by dysmyelination.
Swallowing is a complex motor behavior that relies on an interneuronal network of premotor neurons (PMNs) to organize the sequential activity of motor neurons that are active during the buccopharyngeal and esophageal phases. Swallowing PMNs are highly interconnected to multiple areas of the brain stem and the central nervous system and provide a potential anatomic substrate integration of swallowing activity with airway protective reflexes. Because these neurons have synaptic contact with both afferent inputs and motor neurons and exhibit a true central activity, they appear to constitute the swallowing central pattern generator. We studied the viscerotopic organization of the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS), the nucleus ambiguus (NA), the dorsal motor nucleus (DMN), and the hypoglossal nucleus (XII) using cholera toxin horseradish peroxidase (CT-HRP), a sensitive antegrade and retrograde tracer that effectively labels afferent terminal fields within the NTS as well as swallowing motor neurons and their dendritic fields within the NA, DMN, and XII. We used CT-HRP to provide a comprehensive description of the dendritic architecture of NA motor neurons innervating swallowing muscles. We also conducted studies using pseudorabies virus (PRV), a swine alpha-herpesvirus, to map central neural circuits after injection in the peripheral or central nervous systems. One attenuated vaccine strain, Bartha PRV, has preferential affinity for sites of afferent synaptic contact on the cell body and dendrites and a reactive gliosis that effectively isolates the infected neurons and provides a barrier to the nonspecific spread to adjacent neurons. The findings provide a basis for the central integration of swallowing and respiratory protective reflexes.
'Regulators of G protein signaling' (RGS proteins) are members of a large family of GTPase-activating proteins that are differentially expressed in various cell types and accelerate the termination of heterotrimeric G protein signaling. To identify RGS proteins that may affect autonomic regulation of atrial excitability, we screened the expression of nineteen RGS genes (RGS subfamilies A, B, C, and D) in single spontaneously beating rat atrial myocytes maintained in primary culture. Expression profiling by single-cell reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis revealed that seven distinct RGS genes are endogenously expressed in atrial myocytes which were also identified in poly(A)(+) mRNA from rat atria (RGS2, RGS3, RGS4, RGS6, RGS10, GAIP, and RGSZ2). Other RGS transcripts were detected in atrial poly(A)(+) mRNA but not single atrial myocytes (RGS5, RGS12, RGS16, and RGS18), and therefore are likely to originate from non-myocyte sources in atrial tissue. The single-cell RT-PCR experiments also led to the identification of putative splice variants for RGS6 and GAIP. Immunocytochemistry using RGS-specific antibodies confirmed the presence of selected RGS proteins in the cultured atrial myocytes. These results demonstrate a rich diversity of RGS expression in atrial myocytes whose specific role in G-protein signaling is yet to be determined. The identification of endogenous RGS proteins in atrial myocytes will facilitate targeted suppression and/or deletion studies to determine how each RGS protein may affect atrial excitability and its short-term and long-term regulation by G-protein signaling events.
The in vivo properties of a series of 2-arylindole NK(1) antagonists have been improved, by modification of the amide substituent. The 1-(2-methoxyphenyl)piperazine amide was identified as a major area of metabolism in the lead compound 1. Replacement of this amine moiety by a 4-benzyl-4-hydroxypiperidine resulted in a compound 18 with reduced clearance and improved central duration of action.
Diffusion-weighted MR (DWI) can detect changes in water diffusion associated with cellular dysfunction, which enables the differentiation of cytotoxic edema from vasogenic edema. In this study on DWI findings in central pontine (CPM) and extrapontine myelinolysis (EPM), DWI showed high signal intensities in the bilateral pons, midbrain, and genu of the corpus callosum. The corresponding apparent diffusion coefficient values were rather low. This suggests that cytotoxic edema does in fact exist in CPM and EPM and that DWI can be useful in the rapid diagnosis and prediction of the various types of edema occurring in active demyelinating diseases.
Motor fluctuations in parkinsonian patients can be reduced by intraduodenal infusion of levodopa. Between 1991 and 1998 continuous daytime administration of levodopa through a transabdominal port has been used in 28 very advanced patients over a total period of 1045 months. A stable suspension of levodopa and carbidopa (Duodopa) has been developed. Patients were characterized by early onset, long history of disease and levodopa therapy. The reason for infusion was in all cases related to on-off fluctuations. All patients experienced a general improvement after the introduction of continuous treatment. There have been no severe complications. Six patients have taken the decision to curtail their treatment. The mean daily levodopa consumption has been slightly reduced on infusion as compared to oral therapy. Nine of the first group of patients participating in the new therapy have been regularly evaluated by means of rating scales and movement analyses. Short-term results have already been published and a follow-up showing continued positive effect after 4-7 years of continuous duodenal infusion is presented.

The course and psychological correlates of disturbed sleep during middle childhood were investigated using parents' responses to questionnaires. Five specified sleep disturbances were explored in 614 5-8-y-old children, at baseline and at follow-up, 14 +/- 3 mo later. Difficulties falling asleep, in 6.2% of the children at baseline, persisted in 47.4% of the cases at follow-up; night-waking, in 18.6% at baseline, persisted in 45.5%; snoring, in 9.4% at baseline, persisted in 60%; nightmares, in 4.4% at baseline, persisted in 29.6%, and bedwetting, in 6% at baseline, persisted in 46%. Moreover, children with difficulties falling asleep at baseline frequently displayed bedtime resistance and shorter sleep at follow-up, while night-waking at baseline was related to co-sleeping at follow-up. Snoring at baseline was associated with a trend towards restless sleep at follow-up. Nightmares at baseline were related to several other sleep complaints as well as to behavioural difficulties during daytime at follow-up. Bedwetting at baseline was associated with tendencies towards hyperactivity at follow-up. Separate analyses of cases of persisting sleep disturbances showed that persisting difficulties falling asleep were associated with a need to remedy sleep problems, while persisting nightmares were strongly related to reports suggesting behavioural and emotional problems. Conclusion: During middle childhood, difficulties falling asleep, night-waking, snoring, nightmares or bedwetting commonly persist over the course of a year. Persistent nightmares frequently indicate significant psychological problems in affected children.

Chlorpromazine is a neuroleptic antipsychotic agent with a long history of clinical use. Its primary mode of action is thought to be through modulation of monoaminergic inter-neuronal communication; however, its side-effect profile indicates substantial activities in other systems. Recent work has begun to uncover actions of this compound on ion channels. In this light we have investigated the actions of chlorpromazine on the recombinant alpha1E subunit-encoded voltage-sensitive Ca2+ channel (VSCC) that is believed to encode drug-resistant R-type currents found in neurones and other cells. Chlorpromazine produced a dose-dependent antagonism of these channels that was reversed on drug removal. The mean IC50 was close to 10 microM. At this concentration, the level of antagonism observed was dependent on the membrane potential, with greater inhibition being observed at more negative test potentials. Furthermore, chlorpromazine induced substantial changes in the steady-state inactivation properties of alpha1Ebeta3-mediated currents, although it was not seen to elicit a corresponding change in inactivation kinetics. These results are discussed with regard to the possible clinical mechanisms of chlorpromazine actions.
At the University of Missouri-Columbia, the medical school employs a problem-based learning curriculum that began in 1993. Since the curriculum was changed, student performance on step 1 of the United States Medical Licensing Examination has significantly increased from slightly below the national average to almost one-half a standard deviation above the national mean. In the first and second years, classes for students are organized in classes or blocks that are 8 wk long, followed by 1 wk for evaluation. Initially, basic science endocrinology was taught in the fourth block of the first year with immunology and molecular biology. Student and faculty evaluations of the curriculum indicated that endocrinology did not integrate well with the rest of the material taught in that block. To address these issues, basic science endocrinology was moved into another block with neurosciences. We integrate endocrinology with neurosciences by using the hypothalamus and its role in neuroendocrinology as a springboard for endocrinology. This is accomplished by using clinical cases with clear neuroscience and endocrinology aspects such as Cushing's disease and multiple endocrine neoplastic syndrome type 1.
To characterize alpha(2)-adrenergic control of motor and sensory functions of gastrointestinal tract and colon, we studied dose-related effects of clonidine (placebo or up to 0.3 mg po) by random assignment in 55 healthy humans. Gastrointestinal transit was measured in all subjects; in 35, we assessed colonic compliance, tone, and sensations of gas and pain during phasic distensions. Clonidine did not significantly alter gastrointestinal or colonic transit, but it increased colonic compliance and reduced fasting tone without altering colonic response to a meal. Clonidine significantly reduced aggregate sensation to distensions overall and had significant linear dose-related sensory effects at 8- and 24-mmHg distensions. Effect on pain (including dose-response relationship) was due to 0.3-mg dose for distensions at 24 mmHg. We confirmed that clonidine relaxes fasting colonic tone and reduces sensation of pain. In this study, gut transit was not altered by clonidine, and novel dose-response characteristics and clonidine's effect on gas sensation are provided. Doses as low as 0.05 mg may be effective and potentially useful in reducing colonic tone and gas sensation.
Our past microdialysis studies in ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus (VMN) and lateral hypothalamic area (LHA) of changes in dopamine concentrations in response to changes in food intake [characterized as feeding pattern (changes in meal number and size)] in anorexia of cancer show abnormal presynaptic dopaminergic neurotransmission. To determine postsynaptic receptor status, studies were done in tumor-bearing (TB) and non-tumor-bearing (NTB) free-feeding control rats while continuously measuring their food intake via a rat eater meter. When TB rats developed anorexia, TB and control rats were killed, and postsynaptic D(1)- and D(2)-receptor mRNA expression in LHA and VMN were measured via RT-PCR. At anorexia, food intake decreased initially by a decrease in meal number, whereas a concurrent increase in meal size occurred for 24 h in an attempt to maintain food intake constant. Then meal size also decreased. At this time, D(1)- and D(2)-receptor mRNA expressions in LHA and VMN of TB vs. controls were significantly upregulated. Verification of D(1)- or D(2)-receptor changes to changes in meal number and size at anorexia was made by injection of intra-VMN or -LHA dopaminergic receptor antagonists. Intra-VMN D(1)-receptor antagonist (SCH-23390) in TB rats decreased food intake mainly via a decrease in meal size. Intra-VMN D(2)-receptor antagonist (sulpiride) in TB rats increased food intake via an increase in meal number and in NTB free-feeding rats by an increase in meal size. Intra-LHA D(1)-receptor antagonist in TB rats had no effect on food intake or feeding pattern. Intra-LHA D(2)-receptor antagonist in TB and in NTB free-feeding rats increased food intake via an increase in meal number. Our data provide evidence that postsynaptic dopaminergic receptor subtypes in the hypothalamus are involved in the regulation of meal size, meal number, and thus food intake in anorectic TB rats.
Cetacean (dolphin, whale, and porpoise) brains are among the least studied mammalian brains because of the formidable challenge of collecting and histologically preparing such relatively rare and large specimens. Magnetic resonance imaging offers a means of observing the internal structure of the brain when traditional histological procedures are not practical. Furthermore, internal structures can be analyzed in their precise anatomic positions, which is difficult to accomplish after the spatial distortions often accompanying histological processing. In this study, images of the brain of an adult bottlenose dolphin, Tursiops truncatus, were scanned in the coronal plane at 148 antero-posterior levels. From these scans a computer-generated three-dimensional model was constructed using the programs VoxelView and VoxelMath (Vital Images, Inc.). This model, wherein details of internal and external morphology are represented in three-dimensional space, was then resectioned in orthogonal planes to produce corresponding series of virtual sections in the horizontal and sagittal planes. Sections in all three planes display the sizes and positions of major neuroanatomical features such as the arrangement of cortical lobes and subcortical structures such as the inferior and superior colliculi, and demonstrate the utility of MRI for neuroanatomical investigations of dolphin brains.

We describe a novel method for the analysis of multivariate time series that exploits the dynamic relationships among the multiple signals. The approach resolves the multivariate time series into hierarchically dependent underlying sources, each driven by noise input and influencing subordinate sources in the hierarchy. Implementation of this hierarchical decomposition (HD) combines principal components analysis (PCA), autoregressive modeling, and a novel search strategy among orthogonal rotations. For model systems conforming to this hierarchical structure, HD accurately extracts the underlying sources, whereas PCA or independent components analysis does not. The interdependencies of cortical, subcortical, and brainstem networks suggest application of HD to multivariate measures of brain activity. We show first that HD indeed resolves temporal lobe ictal electrocorticographic data into nearly hierarchical form. A previous analysis of these data identified characteristic nonlinearities in the PCA-derived temporal components that resembled those seen in absence (petit mal) seizure electroencephalographic traces. However, the components containing these characteristic nonlinearities accounted for only a small fraction of the power. Analysis of these data with HD reveals furthermore that components containing characteristic nonlinearities, though small, can be at the origin of the hierarchy. This finding supports the link between temporal lobe and absence epilepsy.
Since the arrival of managed care, there has been a trend toward changing the basic terminology used to address clinicians and patients. Instead of the term &quot;patient&quot;, third party payors frequently use terms such as &quot;customer, client, consumer or recipient&quot;. One study demonstrated that patients prefer to be called patients. To investigate the preferred term to refer to patients and to be referred to by patients, we mailed a questionnaire to 100 physicians in four medical specialties each and to 100 psychologists. The overall response rate was 61%. Physicians overwhelmingly preferred to refer to patients by the patient's last name, their second preference was the patient's first name. Psychologists preferred to refer to the patients by first name, their second preference was the patient's last name. No group favored using terms such as client, customer, consumer, or recipient. Most physicians and psychologists preferred being referred to as doctors and nobody favored the term provider.
The last decade was very fruitful in neuropharmacology and notably in the therapeutic strategies of dementia and Alzheimer's disease (AD). The amount of data, information and breakthroughs is nevertheless difficult to apply in direct relationship with patients. The present review aims at classifying information according to their origins: epidemiology, clinical trials, neurosciences. A guide for drug prescription in Alzheimer's disease is thus warranted and becomes clearer, sure that, in the next future modifications and new strategies will appear. The main goal of the present review is to summarize the state-of-the-art for a non specialist in AD.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is an irreversible, progressive brain disorder that occurs gradually and results in memory loss, behavior and personality changes, and a decline in cognitive abilities. Although basic biological data suggest that estrogen may have neuroprotective and neuroenhancing functions, a number of studies have produced conflicting findings on the use of estrogen for maintaining cognitive function in older people. This review summarizes clinical studies that have examined the effects of estrogen in women with AD.
Spinocerebellar ataxia 12 (SCA12) is a recently identified form of autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia associated with the expansion of an unstable CAG repeat in the 5' untranslated region of the gene PPP2R2B. We analyzed 77 Indian families with autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia phenotype and confirmed the diagnosis of SCA12 in 5 families, which included a total of 6 patients and 21 family members. The sizes of the expanded alleles ranged from 55 to 69 CAG repeats, and the sizes of the normal alleles ranged from 7 to 31 repeats. We believe our study is the first to demonstrate that SCA12 may not be as rare in some populations as previously thought.


Multiple sclerosis is an autoimmune demyelinating disease of the human central nervous system with an unknown etiology. Crucial to its pathogenesis is the accumulation and activation of mononuclear cells in the central nervous system. Chemokines and their receptors are proposed to play a major role in the inflammatory recruitment of leukocytes. Besides analyses of relationships between chemokine or chemokine receptor gene polymorphisms and multiple sclerosis susceptibility and severity, analyses of chemokines and their receptors in patients with multiple sclerosis remain descriptive. In clinical material, chemokines and chemokine receptors can be examined in body fluids (blood and cerebrospinal fluid) and in brain tissues obtained via biopsy or autopsy. Research results will be summarized in this review, and a general model of leukocyte migration into the central nervous system under normal and inflammatory conditions will be proposed. Furthermore, opportunities and challenges for future investigations will be identified.
The purpose of this study was to compare the efficacy of high-dose intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) treatment with plasma exchange in patients suffering from moderate to severe myasthenia gravis (MG) in a stable phase. There are no controlled studies comparing IVIG with plasma exchange in patients who despite immunosuppressive treatment have persistent incapacitating MG symptoms. This was a controlled crossover study. Twelve patients with generalized moderate to severe MG on immunosuppressive treatment for at least 12 months were included. The patients were evaluated clinically using a quantified MG clinical score (QMGS) before and at follow-up visits after each treatment. One week after the treatments, the patients who received plasma exchange treatment showed a significant improvement in QMGS compared to baseline but although some improvement was seen after IVIG this did not reach statistical significance. Four weeks after both plasma exchange and IVIG treatments, there was a significant improvement in QMGS compared to baseline. One week and 4 weeks after treatment, no significant difference between the 2 treatments was found. Both treatments have a clinically significant effect 4 weeks out in patients with chronic MG, but the improvement has a more rapid onset after plasma exchange than after IVIG.


How should biological behaviour be modelled? A relatively new approach is to investigate problems in neuroethology by building physical robot models of biological sensorimotor systems. The explication and justification of this approach are here placed within a framework for describing and comparing models in the behavioural and biological sciences. First, simulation models--the representation of a hypothesis about a target system--are distinguished from several other relationships also termed &quot;modelling&quot; in discussions of scientific explanation. Seven dimensions on which simulation models can differ are defined and distinctions between them discussed: 1. Relevance: whether the model tests and generates hypotheses applicable to biology. 2. Level: the elemental units of the model in the hierarchy from atoms to societies. 3. Generality: the range of biological systems the model can represent. 4. Abstraction: the complexity, relative to the target, or amount of detail included in the model. 5. Structural accuracy: how well the model represents the actual mechanisms underlying the behaviour. 6. Performance match: to what extent the model behaviour matches the target behaviour. 7. Medium: the physical basis by which the model is implemented. No specific position in the space of models thus defined is the only correct one, but a good modelling methodology should be explicit about its position and the justification for that position. It is argued that in building robot models biological relevance is more effective than loose biological inspiration; multiple levels can be integrated; that generality cannot be assumed but might emerge from studying specific instances; abstraction is better done by simplification than idealisation; accuracy can be approached through iterations of complete systems; that the model should be able to match and predict target behaviour; and that a physical medium can have significant advantages. These arguments reflect the view that biological behaviour needs to be studied and modelled in context, that is, in terms of the real problems faced by real animals in real environments.
Rodents are able to rely on self-motion (idiothetic) cues and navigate toward a reference place by path integration. The authors tested the effects of dorsal hippocampal and parietal lesions in a homing task to dissociate the respective roles of the hippocampus and the parietal cortex in path integration. Hippocampal rats exhibited a strong deficit in learning the basic task. Parietal rats displayed a performance impairment as a function of the complexity of their outward paths when the food was placed at varying locations. These results suggest that the parietal cortex plays a specific role in path integration and in the processing of idiothetic information, whereas the hippocampus is involved in the calibration of space used by the path integration system.
The effect of medial temporal lobe damage on a 2-tone delay discrimination and reversal paradigm was examined in human classical eyeblink conditioning. Eight medial temporal lobe amnesic patients and their demographically matched controls were compared. Amnesic patients were able to distinguish between 2 tones during the initial discrimination phase of the experiment almost as well as control participants. Amnesic patients were not able to reverse the previously acquired 2-tone discrimination. In contrast, the control participants showed improved discrimination performance after the reversal of the tones. These findings support the hypothesis that the hippocampus and associated temporal lobe regions play a role in eyeblink conditioning that becomes essential in more complex versions of the task, such as the reversal of an acquired 2-tone discrimination.
Zonula occludens 2 (ZO-2) protein is a tight-junction phos phorylated protein that belongs to the membrane-associated guanylate kinase ('MAGUK') family. Here we study the interaction between ZO-2 and protein kinase C (PKC). We have constructed two ZO-2 fusion proteins of the middle (3PSG) and C-terminal (AP) regions of the molecule and demonstrate that they are phosphorylated by PKC isoenzymes beta, epsilon, lambda and zeta. To understand the physiological significance of the interaction between ZO-2 and PKC, we analysed the phosphorylation state of ZO-2 immunoprecipitated from monolayers with mature tight junctions or from cells that either lack them or have them disassembled through Ca(2+) chelation. We found that in the latter condition the phosphorylation level of ZO-2 is significantly higher and is due to the action of both PKC and cAMP-dependent protein kinase. These results therefore suggest that the phosphorylated state of ZO-2 restrains its capacity to operate at the junctional complex.
Methods to assess metabolism are important analytical tools in neuroscience. The fluorophore nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NADH) is a parameter of cellular metabolism. NADH fluorescence was measured using a laser-based fluorescence detector with spectral and temporal filters. Distribution and intensity of NADH fluorescence were investigated in frozen brain sections. In sections containing hippocampus the intensity of NADH fluorescence was correlated to brain structures. In order to investigate the consequences of neurotoxic lesions, 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine was injected into the dorsal raphe nucleus 4 to 240 days prior to the measurement. NADH fluorescence decreased in the affected region by 50%, indicating that no recovery in metabolic activity had occurred.
In this work the effect of the neurotoxic amino acid sequence, Abeta25-35, on brain mitochondrial permeability transition pore (PTP) was studied. For the purpose, the mitochondrial transmembrane potential (deltapsim), mitochondrial respiration and the calcium fluxes were examined. It was observed that Abeta25-35, in the presence of Ca2+, decreased the deltapsim, the capacity of brain mitochondria to accumulate calcium and led to a complete uncoupling of the respiration. However, the reverse sequence of the peptide Abeta25-35 (Abeta35-25) did not promote the PTP. The alterations promoted by Abeta35-25 and/or Ca2+ could be reversed when Ca2 was removed by EGTA or when ADP plus oligomycin were present. The pretreatment with CsA or ADP plus oligomycin prevented the deltapsim drop and preserved the capacity of mitochondria to accumulate Ca2+. These results suggest that Abeta25-35 can promote the PTP induced by Ca2+.
Association studies in outbred populations represent an important paradigm for investigation of complex traits, such as bipolar disorder, both to follow-up regions of interest from linkage studies (by systematic linkage disequilibrium mapping and positional candidate studies) and for pure functional studies. The advantages of the association method include its relative robustness to genetic heterogeneity and the ability to detect much smaller effect sizes than are detectable using feasible sample sizes in linkage studies. The candidate gene approach is potentially very powerful, particularly when used within the context of a VAPSE (variation affecting protein structure or expression) paradigm, but a major problem is that the efficiency in the choice of candidates is inevitably a function of the level of previous understanding of disease pathophysiology. To date, most candidate gene studies in bipolar disorder have focussed on the major neurotransmitter systems that are influenced by medication used in clinical management of the disorder. Early studies often used anonymous markers in the hope of detecting linkage disequilibrium but recently direct examination of polymorphisms of known or presumed functional relevance has become more usual. Most studies in the literature have been of the unrelated case-control design with samples rarely exceeding 200-300 subjects. No definitive findings have yet emerged although there have been some interesting preliminary findings including those with polymorphisms within the genes encoding catechol-o-methyl transferase (COMT), monoamine oxidase A (MAOA) and the serotonin transporter (hSERT; 5-HTT). In this article we critically review the current status of the literature within the context of the important methodological issues and limitations inherent in the use of association studies for genetic dissection of bipolar disorder. We conclude by examining likely future directions and developments in the field.
We present the case of a man developing a profound cerebellar syndrome within 24 h of a minor head injury. His neuroimaging was normal and no other cause was found for his cerebellar syndrome. We discuss the possible pathological substrate for such a focal neurological deficit after minor head trauma.
The C6 motor rootlets were avulsed from the spinal cord in six newborn lambs to simulate a birth lesion of the upper root of the brachial plexus. Six 1-year-old sheep were used for comparison, and treated in a similar manner. The injury was repaired immediately in each group using an autologous coaxial freeze-thawed skeletal muscle graft. The animals were allowed to recover for 1 year after the surgery. The C6 root was then examined electrophysiologically and morphologically. The results were compared with those obtained from a group of untreated intact 1-year-old sheep. The fibre and axon diameters and myelin sheath thickness were significantly different in the group repaired as lambs when compared with the group repaired at the age of 1 year. There was also a significantly increased maximum conduction velocity and a greater range of conduction velocities within the nerve in the lambs. Central motor latency was significantly slower in the sheep than in the lambs. These findings would suggest a greater potential for recovery in the lambs after brachial plexus root avulsion injuries.
In patients with primary progressive (PP) multiple sclerosis, brain MRI lesion activity and burden are low, despite the presence of severe neurological impairment. On the contrary, the degree of cord atrophy and diffuse tissue damage in the brain and cervical cord have been found to be associated with clinical disability. Against this background, this study aimed at providing an in vivo indirect assessment of brain and cervical cord pathology in a large cohort of PP multiple sclerosis patients, using conventional MRI and magnetization transfer imaging (MTI). Ninety-one PP multiple sclerosis patients, 36 secondary progressive (SP) multiple sclerosis patients and 30 healthy controls underwent brain and cervical cord MRI scans, using dual echo (brain) or fast short-tau inversion recovery (cervical cord) MTI and T(1)-weighted sequences. For the brain, T(2) hyperintense and T(1) hypointense lesion volumes were calculated and the volume of the whole of the brain tissue measured. For the cervical cord, the number and burden of lesions and the cross-sectional area were assessed. MTI scans were post-processed and analysed to obtain magnetization transfer ratio (MTR) histograms from the whole of the brain and cervical cord tissue and from the normal-appearing brain tissue in isolation. In PP multiple sclerosis patients, brain, normal-appearing brain tissue and cervical cord MTR histogram-derived metrics revealed the presence of diffuse tissue damage whose characteristics did not significantly differ from those of SP multiple sclerosis patients, even though SP multiple sclerosis patients had higher MRI-visible lesion burdens. None of the correlations between MRI or MTI measures obtained from the brain and the cord were significant. PP multiple sclerosis patients' disability was significantly, albeit weakly associated with a composite MR model including measures of loss and intrinsic damage of cervical cord tissue. Our data indicate the presence of a diffuse tissue damage undetectable by conventional MRI in PP multiple sclerosis patients, whose extent seems to match that of SP multiple sclerosis patients with similar levels of disability. They also suggest that the severity of multiple sclerosis pathology in the cervical cord is one of the factors contributing to neurological impairment in PP multiple sclerosis.
A large-scale virtual reality town was used to test the topographical and episodic memory of patients with unilateral temporal lobe damage. Seventeen right and 13 left temporal lobectomy patients were compared with 16 healthy matched control subjects. After they had explored the town, subjects' topographical memory was tested by requiring them to navigate to specific locations in the town. The ability to recognize scenes from and draw maps of the virtual town was also assessed. Following the topographical memory tests, subjects followed a route around the same town but now collected objects from two different characters in two different locations. Episodic memory for various aspects of these events was then assessed by paired forced-choice recognition tests. The results showed an interaction between laterality and test type such that the right temporal lobectomy (RTL) patients were worse on tests of topographical memory, and the left temporal lobectomy (LTL) patients worse on tests of context-dependent episodic memory. Specifically, the RTL group was impaired on navigation, scene recognition and map drawing relative to control subjects. They were also impaired on recognition of objects in the episodic memory task. The LTL group was impaired relative to control subjects on their memory for contextual aspects of the events, such as who gave them the objects, the order in which objects were received and the locations in which they received them. They were also mildly impaired on topographical memory, but less so than the RTL group. These results suggest that topographical memory is predominately mediated by structures in the right medial temporal lobe, whereas the context-dependent aspects of episodic memory in this non-verbal test are more dependent on the left medial temporal lobe.
We describe a pedigree in which eight individuals presented with a non-progressive disorder with onset between the ages of 12 and 50 years. It was characterized by predominantly distal, semi-continuous rhythmic myoclonus (all patients), generalized tonic-clonic seizures (all patients) and complex partial seizures (three patients). Most individuals had rarely suffered seizures and had a normal cognitive level, but three individuals with intractable seizures had mild mental retardation. The pattern of inheritance was autosomal dominant with high penetrance. We defined this disorder as autosomal dominant cortical myoclonus and epilepsy (ADCME). All patients had frontotemporal as well as generalized interictal EEG abnormalities. A neurophysiological study of the myoclonus suggested a cortical origin. Back-averaging of the data generated a series of waves with a frequency that mirrored the frequency of EMG bursts. Frequency analysis identified significant peaks with coherence between EMG and EEG, which were recorded over the contralateral rolandic area in five patients. The frequency of coherence was 8-25 Hz and phase spectra confirmed that EEG activity preceded EMG activity by 8-15 ms. In two individuals there was also significant coherence between the ipsilateral EEG and EMG, consistent with the transcallosal spread of myoclonic activity. The C-reflex at rest was enhanced and somatosensory and visual evoked potentials were of high amplitude. The resting motor threshold intensity to transcranial magnetic stimulation was significantly reduced (38%; SD +/- 7; P = 0.01) and the post-motor evoked potential silent period (101 ms; SEM +/- 10) was significantly shortened compared with the controls (137 ms; SEM +/- 18). These clinical and neuro- physiological characteristics suggest diffuse cortical hyperexcitability and high propensity for intra-hemispheric and inter-hemispheric cortical spread, as well as rhythmic myoclonic activity. Genome-wide linkage analysis identified a critical region spanning 12.4 cM between markers D2S2161 and D2S1897 in 2p11.1-q12.2, with a maximum two-point LOD score of 3.46 at Theta 0.0 for marker D2S2175. Multipoint LOD score values, reaching 3.74 around D2S2175, localize the ADCME gene to the centromeric region of chromosome 2. The exclusion of the locus for familial adult myoclonic epilepsy on chromosome 8q23.3-q24 from linkage to our family and the new localization of the responsible gene to chromosome 2cen, together with the different phenotype, define a new epilepsy syndrome. We hypothesize that the responsible gene causes cortical hyperexcitability that is widespread but particularly involves the frontotemporal circuits.
L1 cell adhesion molecule (L1CAM) gene mutations are associated with X-linked 'recessive' neurological syndromes characterized by spasticity of the legs. L1CAM knock-out mice show hypoplasia of the corticospinal tract and failure of corticospinal axonal decussation and projection beyond the cervical spinal cord. The aim of this study was to determine if similar neuropathology underlies the spastic diplegia of males hemizygous for L1CAM mutations. Studies were performed on eight carrier females and 10 hemizygous males. Transcranial magnetic stimulation excited the corticospinal tract and responses were recorded in biceps brachii and quadriceps femoris. In contralateral biceps and quadriceps the responses had high thresholds and delayed onset compared with normal subjects. Ipsilateral responses in biceps were smaller, with higher thresholds and delayed onsets relative to contralateral responses. Subthreshold corticospinal conditioning of the stretch reflex of biceps and quadriceps was abnormal in both hemizygous males and carrier females suggesting there may also be a reduced projection to inhibitory interneurones. Histological examination of post-mortem material from a 2-week-old male with an L1CAM mutation revealed normal corticospinal decussation and axonal projections to lumbar spinal segments. These data support a role for L1CAM in corticospinal tract development in hemizygous males and 'carrier' females, but do not support a critical role for L1CAM in corticospinal axonal guidance.
There is now persuasive evidence that trigeminal neuralgia is usually caused by demyelination of trigeminal sensory fibres within either the nerve root or, less commonly, the brainstem. In most cases, the trigeminal nerve root demyelination involves the proximal, CNS part of the root and results from compression by an overlying artery or vein. Other causes of trigeminal neuralgia in which demyelination is involved or implicated include multiple sclerosis and, probably, compressive space-occupying masses in the posterior fossa. Examination of trigeminal nerve roots from patients with compression of the nerve root by an overlying blood vessel has revealed focal demyelination in the region of compression, with close apposition of demyelinated axons and an absence of intervening glial processes. Similar foci of nerve root demyelination and juxtaposition of axons have been demonstrated in multiple sclerosis patients with trigeminal neuralgia. Experimental studies indicate that this anatomical arrangement favours the ectopic generation of spontaneous nerve impulses and their ephaptic conduction to adjacent fibres, and that spontaneous nerve activity is likely to be increased by the deformity associated with pulsatile vascular indentation. Decompression of the nerve root produces rapid relief of symptoms in most patients with vessel-associated trigeminal neuralgia, probably because the resulting separation of demyelinated axons and their release from focal distortion reduce the spontaneous generation of impulses and prevent their ephaptic spread. The role of remyelination in initial symptomatic recovery after decompression is unclear. However, remyelination may help to ensure that relief of symptoms is sustained after decompression of the nerve root and may also be responsible for the spontaneous remission of the neuralgia in some patients. In addition to causing symptomatic relief, vascular decompression leads to rapid recovery of nerve conduction across the indented root, a phenomenon that, we suggest, is likely to reflect the reversal of compression-induced conduction block in larger myelinated fibres outside the region of demyelination. Trigeminal neuralgia can occur in association with a range of other syndromes involving vascular compression and hyperactivity of cranial nerves. Clinical observations and electrophysiological studies support the concept that demyelination and ephaptic spread of excitation underlie most, if not all, of these conditions.
The modulatory influence of literacy on the cognitive system of the human brain has been indicated in behavioral, neuroanatomic, and functional neuroimaging studies. In this study we explored the functional consequences of formal education and the acquisition of an alphabetic written language on two- and three-dimensional visual naming. The results show that illiterate subjects perform significantly worse on immediate naming of two-dimensional representations of common everyday objects compared to literate subjects, both in terms of accuracy and reaction times. In contrast, there was no significant difference when the subjects named the corresponding real objects. The results suggest that formal education and learning to read and to write modulate the cognitive process involved in processing two- but not three-dimensional representations of common everyday objects. Both the results of the reaction time and the error pattern analyses can be interpreted as indicating that the major influence of literacy affects the visual system or the interaction between the visual and the language systems. We suggest that the visual system in a wide sense and/or the interface between the visual and the language system are differently formatted in literate and illiterate subjects. In other words, we hypothesize that the pattern of interactions in the functional-anatomical networks subserving visual naming, that is, the interactions within and between the visual and language processing networks, differ in literate and illiterate subjects.
Symptoms of X-linked recessive diseases are usually observed in males, but also observed in some female carriers because of nonrandom X inactivation in which the mutated X chromosome is active and the normal X chromosomes is inactive. Therefore, it is important to investigate the patterns of X-chromosome inactivation (XCI) for clinical assessment of carriers with an X-linked disease. We have recently developed a new assay for XCI studies based on a methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction (PCR) technique. The assay involves the chemical modification of DNA with sodium bisulfite and subsequent PCR amplification. The assay is more rapid than conventional cytogenetic assays and more accurate than the current PCR-based assay for XCI studies. Because the new assay produces not only the pattern of inactive X chromosomes but also the pattern of active X chromosomes, their combination turns out to be a more reliable XCI pattern-diminishing PCR artifact. In this review, I will discuss the basics of this new assay, and its clinical applications to various X-linked diseases, including a potential application for Rett syndrome research.
During the past 2 decades the collaboration across disciplines and the methodologic and conceptual advances of contemporary neuroscience have brought about a substantial modification of the traditional view of the cerebellum as a mere coordinator of autonomic and somatic motor functions. Growing insights in the neuroanatomy of the cerebellum and its interconnections, evidence from functional neuroimaging and neurophysiological research, and advancements in clinical and experimental neuropsychology have established the view that the cerebellum participates in a much wider range of functions than conventionally accepted. This increase of insight has brought to the fore that the cerebellum modulates cognitive functioning of at least those parts of the brain to which it is reciprocally connected. This article reviews the recently acknowledged role of the cerebellum in cognition and addresses in more detail experimental and clinical data disclosing the modulatory role of the cerebellum in various non-motor language processes such as lexical retrieval, syntax, and language dynamics. In agreement with the findings indicating a topographical organization of the cerebellar structures involved in language pathology we advance the concept of a &quot;lateralized linguistic cerebellum.&quot; In our view crossed cerebral diaschisis processes, reflecting a functional depression of supratentorial language areas due to reduced input via cerebellocortical pathways, might represent the relevant pathomechanism for linguistic deficits associated with cerebellar pathology.
A collection of 125 PHAL experiments in the rat has been analyzed to characterize the organization of projections from each amygdalar cell group (except the nucleus of the lateral olfactory tract) to the bed nuclei of the stria terminalis, which surround the crossing of the anterior commissure. The results suggest three organizing principles of these connections. First, the central nucleus, and certain other amygdalar cell groups associated with the main olfactory system, innervate preferentially various parts of the lateral and medial halves of the bed nuclear anterior division, and these projections travel via both the stria terminalis and ansa peduncularis (ventral pathway). Second, in contrast, the medial nucleus, and the rest of the amygdalar cell groups associated with the accessory and main olfactory systems innervate preferentially the posterior division, and the medial half of the anterior division, of the bed nuclei. And third, the lateral and anterior basolateral nuclei of the amygdala (associated with the frontotemporal association cortical system) do not project significantly to the bed nuclei. For comparison, inputs to the bed nuclei from the ventral subiculum, infralimbic area, and endopiriform nucleus are also described. The functional significance of these projections is discussed with reference to what is known about the output of the bed nuclei.
Dysfunction of surviving axons which traverse the site of spinal cord injury (SCI) appears to contribute to posttraumatic neurological deficits, though the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. Although demyelination of injured but surviving axons following trauma appear to be a major contributor of axonal conduction deficits, altered activity of ion channels may also play an important role. It has been theorized that exposure of K+ channels as a result of demyelination would result in a reduced safety factor of action potential propagation across the demyelinated region of the axon. This theory and electrophysiological studies using K+ channel blockers on animal nerve preparations prompted the investigation of 4-aminopyridine (4-AP), a blocker of rapidly activating voltage-gated K+ channels, as a therapeutic agent in both multiple sclerosis and spinal cord injured patients. Several preliminary clinical trials have already demonstrated therapeutic benefit of 4-AP in both multiple sclerosis and spinal cord injured patients. In this review, we shall give a comprehensive summary of the mechanisms of axonal dysfunction following SCI and how axonal dysfunction may have resulted due to specific pathological changes following trauma including the ultrastructural and molecular changes that occur to myelinated axons. The pathology of spinal cord injury is very complex and many different mechanisms may contribute to axonal conduction deficits and the associated sensory and motor loss.
[35S]GTPgammaS binding autoradiography is a novel method to study the distribution and function of neurotransmitter receptors in tissue sections. This technique unifies the advantages of receptor-autoradiography and [35S]GTPgammaS binding, providing anatomical and functional information at the same time. Due to these two main features, it can also be called 'functional autoradiography'. [35S]GTPgammaS binding has long been used to study the first step of the intracellular signaling pathway, but until the mid 1990s it has only been performed on cell membrane extracts. Functional autoradiography evolved from this biochemical assay and ligand autoradiography, and is based on the increase in guanine nucleotide exchange at G-proteins upon agonist stimulation. With the technique, activation of G-protein-coupled receptors upon agonist binding can be detected, and, at the same time, the location of activated receptors can also be visualized. Thus only those presumably active G-protein-coupled receptors are visualized that can be involved in signal transduction. In the past 5 years the technique has become more and more frequently used in neuroscience, and it has been adapted to several receptors in different species, including also the human brain. [35S]GTPgammaS binding autoradiography can be used to describe the distribution of G-protein-coupled receptors. Some inferences on their coupling efficiency can also be drawn. Besides the localization of ligand binding sites, it provides information on the action of the ligand on the receptor: agonists, antagonists, and inverse agonists can clearly be distinguished. Moreover, [35S]GTPgammaS binding autoradiography can successfully be combined with other in vitro assays, like receptor autoradiography, in situ hybridization histochemistry, or even with biochemical and electrophysiological experiments. This review presents an overview on the history and the development of this technique. Its main advantages and limitations are summarized, together with a few basic technical questions. A number of experiments performed with [35S]GTPgammaS binding autoradiography so far, and some possible applications for the future, are also reviewed.
We propose a new approach to address the question of how a single quantum of neurotransmitter is secreted from a presynaptic terminal whose clustered secretory vesicles are locally bathed in high levels of calcium ions [Proceedings of the Symposium on Bioelectrogenesis (1961) 297-309; The Physiology of Synapses (1964) Chapters 1, 4, 5, 6; How the Self Controls its Brain (1994) Chapters 1, 4, 5, 6; Science 256 (1992) 677-679]. This hypothesis, which we term 'porocytosis', posits that the post-synaptic quantal response results from transmitter secreted through an array of docked vesicle/secretory pore complexes. The transient increase in calcium ions, which results from the voltage activated calcium channels, stimulates the array of secretory pores to simultaneously flicker open to pulse transmitter. Porocytosis is consistent with the quantal nature of presynaptic secretion and transmission, and with available biochemical, morphological and physiological evidence. It explains the frequency dependency of quantal size as a function of the secretion process. It permits a signature amount of transmitter release for different frequencies allowing a given synapse to be employed in different behavioral responses. The porocytosis hypothesis permits fidelity of secretion and the seemingly apposed characteristic of synaptic plasticity. The dynamics inherent in an array insure a constant quantal size as a function of the number of units within the array. In this hypothesis, plasticity is a consequence of concurrent pre- and post-synaptic changes due to a change in array size. Changes in the number of docked vesicle-secretory pore complexes composing the array can explain facilitation, depletion, graded excitation-secretion and long term plasticity.
Recently, endomorphin-1 (Tyr-Pro-Trp-Phe-NH2; EM1), an endogenous peptide that has high affinity and selectivity for the mu-opiate receptor, has been shown to modulate emotional behavior in mice and social behavior in Syrian hamsters. Endomorphin-1 (EM1) is present throughout the central nervous system in rats, mice, and guinea pigs; however, the distribution of EM1 in hamsters has not been described. The purpose of the present study was to investigate the distribution of EM1-like immunoreactivity (EM1L-IR) in the limbic system of Syrian hamsters using immunocytochemistry. Perikarya containing EM1L-IR were present in the anterior area, dorsomedial, ventromedial, periventricular, posterior, and arcuate nuclei of the hypothalamus. Fibers expressing EM1L-IR were present in the nucleus accumbens, caudate putamen, septum, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, amygdaloid complex, and hypothalamus. The distribution of EM1 suggests a potential endogenous role for this peptide in major processes modulated by opiates, including affective states and social behavior.
The present study explored whether the N400 semantic priming effect is based on semantic similarity or lexical associations, or both. The event-related potentials showed N400 priming effects for both semantically similar and lexically associated word pairs in the 250-375 ms time-window. However, the effect lasted for a longer time for lexical associates, particularly in frontal and central electrode sites in the 375-500 ms time-window, suggesting that different types of processing may contribute to the N400 priming effects evoked by the two types of relationships.
This article is a transcription of an electronic symposium held on February 5, 2001 by the Brazilian Society of Neuroscience and Behavior (SBNeC) during which eight specialists involved in clinical and experimental research on sleep and dreaming exposed their personal experience and theoretical points of view concerning these highly polemic subjects. Unlike most other bodily functions, sleep and dreaming cannot, so far, be defined in terms of definitive functions that play an ascribable role in maintaining the organism as a whole. Such difficulties appear quite clearly all along the discussions. In this symposium, concepts on sleep function range from a protective behavior to an essential function for maturation of the nervous system. Kleitman's hypothesis [Journal of Nervous and Mental Disease (1974), 159: 293-294] was discussed, according to which the basal state is not the wakeful state but sleep, from which we awake to eat, to protect ourselves, to procreate, etc. Dreams, on the other hand, were widely discussed, being considered either as an important step in consolidation of learning or simply the conscious identification of functional patterns derived from the configuration of released or revoked memorized information.
This article is an edited transcription of a virtual symposium promoted by the Brazilian Society of Neuroscience and Behavior (SBNeC). Although the dynamics of sensory and motor representations have been one of the most studied features of the central nervous system, the actual mechanisms of brain plasticity that underlie the dynamic nature of sensory and motor maps are not entirely unraveled. Our discussion began with the notion that the processing of sensory information depends on many different cortical areas. Some of them are arranged topographically and others have non-topographic (analytical) properties. Besides a sensory component, every cortical area has an efferent output that can be mapped and can influence motor behavior. Although new behaviors might be related to modifications of the sensory or motor representations in a given cortical area, they can also be the result of the acquired ability to make new associations between specific sensory cues and certain movements, a type of learning known as conditioning motor learning. Many types of learning are directly related to the emotional or cognitive context in which a new behavior is acquired. This has been demonstrated by paradigms in which the receptive field properties of cortical neurons are modified when an animal is engaged in a given discrimination task or when a triggering feature is paired with an aversive stimulus. The role of the cholinergic input from the nucleus basalis to the neocortex was also highlighted as one important component of the circuits responsible for the context-dependent changes that can be induced in cortical maps.
The development of the nervous system requires a strict control of cell cycle entry and withdrawal. The olfactory epithelium (OE) is noticeable by its ability to yield new neurons not only during development but also continuously during adulthood. The aim of our study was to investigate, by biochemical and immunohistochemical methods, which cell cycle regulators are involved in the control of neuron production during OE development and maturity. At birth, olfactory neural progenitors, the basal cells, exhibited a high mitogenic and neurogenic activity, decreasing in the following weeks together with the drop in expression of several cell cycle regulators. p27Kip1 and p18Ink4c, at birth, were expressed in the whole basal cell layer, whereas p16Ink4a, p19Ink4d, and p21Cip1 were rather located in differentiating or mature neurons. CDK inhibitors may thus act sequentially during this developmental neurogenic process. By comparison, in the adult OE, in which most neural precursors were quiescent, these cells still exhibited p18Ink4c expression but only occasionally p27Kip1 expression. It suggests that p18Ink4c may contribute to maintain basal cells in a quiescent state, whereas p27Kip1 expression in these cells may be rather linked to their neurogenic activity, which declines with age. In keeping with this hypothesis, transgenic mice that lacked p27Kip1 expression displayed a higher rate of cell proliferation versus differentiation in their OE. In these mice, a down-regulation of positive cell cycle regulators was observed that may contribute to compensate for the absence of p27Kip1. Taken together, the present data suggest distinct functions for CDK inhibitors, either in the control of cell cycle exit and differentiation during neurogenesis (respectively, p27Kip1 and p19Ink4d) or in the maintenance of a quiescent state in neural progenitors (p18Ink4c) or neurons (p21Cip1) in adults.
1. The blood-brain barrier (BBB) protects the brain from circulating xenobiotic agents. The pathophysiology, time span, spatial pattern, and pathophysiological consequences of BBB disruptions are not known. 2. Here, we report the quantification of BBB disruption by measuring enhancement levels in computerized tomography brain images. 3. Pathological diffuse enhancement associated with elevated albumin levels in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) was observed in the cerebral cortex of 28 out of 43 patients, but not in controls. Four patients displayed weeks-long focal BBB impairment. In 19 other patients, BBB disruption was significantly associated with elevated blood pressure, body temperature, serum cortisol, and stress-associated CSF 'readthrough&quot; acetylcholinesterase. Multielectrode electroencephalography revealed enhanced slow-wave activities in areas of focal BBB disruption. Thus, quantification of BBB disruption using minimally invasive procedures, demonstrated correlations with molecular, clinical, and physiological stress-associated indices. 4. These sequelae accompany a wide range of neurological disorders, suggesting that persistent, detrimental BBB disruption is considerably more frequent than previously assumed.
In view of the evidence for a role for extracellular ATP in both pancreatic endocrine and exocrine functions, we have investigated the expression of P2X and P2Y receptors in this tissue in neonate and aged rat and mouse. Using immunohistochemistry it was shown that P2X(1), P2X(4), P2X(7), P2Y(1) and P2Y(2) receptors were present in different regions of the rat and mouse pancreas; P2X(3) and P2X(6) receptors were not found, and P2X(5) immunolabelling was only found in some nerves. The pancreatic vasculature of both rat and mouse expressed P2X(1), P2X(2), P2Y(1) and P2Y(2) receptors in the smooth muscle. P2X(1) and P2X(4) receptors were absent in the islets of the neonate pancreas, but were progressively upregulated with age after birth. In contrast, the greatest expression of P2Y(1) in cells from the duct system was in neonate pancreas, while there was no P2Y(1) expression in aged rat pancreas. P2X(7) receptors had a consistent pattern of distribution in all of the groups examined, being located in the outer periphery of the islet. Using antibodies raised against insulin, somatostatin and glucagon, double-labelling immunofluorescence was used to identify P2X(7)-positive cells in different islet of Langerhans cell populations. Our results demonstrated a clear immunoreaction to P2X(7) receptors in islet alpha cells, while no P2X(7) was expressed in beta and delta cells. The significance of the differential expression of P2 receptors in the pancreas during development and ageing, and a possible role for the proliferation and death of the islet cell population are discussed.
Little is known about trigeminal nociception-induced cerebral activity and involvement of cerebral structures in pathogenesis of trigeminovascular headaches such as migraine. Neuroimaging has demonstrated cortical, hypothalamic and brainstem activation during the attack and after abolition with sumatriptan. This has led to the conclusion that the dorsal raphe and locus coeruleus may initiate events that generate migraneous headache. Using a conscious rat model of trigeminal nociception and cerebral Fos expression as histochemical markers of neuronal activity, we characterized the pattern of brain activity after noxious trigeminal stimulation with capsaicin (250 and 1000 nm). A significantly increased Fos immunoreactivity was found in the trigeminal nucleus caudalis (layers I and II), the area postrema, the nucleus of the solitary tract, the parvicellular reticular nucleus, the locus coeruleus, the parabrachial nucleus and the raphe nuclei. In addition, the ventrolateral periaqueductal grey, the intralaminar thalamic and various hypothalamic areas, showed an enhanced Fos expression after the intracisternal administration of capsaicin. Other responding areas were the amygdala, the upper lip and forelimb regions of the primary somatosensory cortex, and the insula. Many of these areas participate in (anti)-nociception, although we cannot exclude the possibility that in conscious animals the pain-associated physiological and behavioural responses that are an intrinsic and necessary part of coping with pain have generated the increased Fos expression. Trigeminal stimulation-induced locus coeruleus, dorsal raphe and hypothalamic activation are opposed to a suggested pathogenic role of these nuclei in migraine and cluster headache, respectively.
Using event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), the neural correlates of memory encoding can be studied by contrasting item-related activity elicited in a study task according to whether the items are remembered or forgotten in a subsequent memory test. Previous studies using this approach have implicated the left prefrontal cortex in the successful encoding of verbal material into episodic memory when the study task is semantic in nature. In the current study, we asked whether the neural correlates of episodic encoding differ depending on type of study task. Seventeen volunteers participated in an event-related fMRI experiment in which at study, volunteers were cued to make either animacy or syllable judgements about words. A recognition memory test followed after a delay of approximately 15 min. For the animacy task, words that were subsequently remembered showed greater activation in left and medial prefrontal regions. For the syllable task, by contrast, successful memory for words was associated with activations in bilateral intraparietal sulcus, bilateral fusiform gyrus, right prefrontal cortex and left superior occipital gyrus. These findings suggest that the brain networks supporting episodic encoding differ according to study task.
During development, a cerebral cortex appears in the wall of the telencephalic vesicle in reptiles and mammals. It arises from a cell-dense cortical plate, which develops within a primordial preplate. The neurons of the preplate are essential for cortical development; they regulate the neuronal migration of the cortical plate neurons and form the first axonal connections. In the reptilian cortex and in the hippocampus of the mammalian cerebral cortex, most ingrowing afferent axons run above the cortical plate, in the zone where the receptive tufts of apical dendrites of the cortical pyramidal neurons branch extensively. In the mammalian neocortex, however, axons enter mainly from below the cortical plate where they do not encounter the apical tufts of these pyramidal neurons. In this paper, we discuss the idea that this difference in cortical development has relieved a functional constraint in the expansion of the cortex during evolution. We hypothesize that the entrance of axons below the cell-dense cortical plate, together with the inside-out migration of cortical neurons, ensures that the neocortex remains an &quot;open&quot; system, able to differentiate into new (sub)layers and more cortical areas.
The mechanism by which chronic, high frequency, electrical deep brain stimulation (HF-DBS) suppresses tremor in Parkinson's disease is unknown. Rest tremor in subjects with Parkinson's disease receiving HF-DBS was recorded continuously throughout switching the deep brain stimulator on (at an effective frequency) and off. These data suggest that the stimulation induces a qualitative change in the dynamics, called a Hopf bifurcation, so that the stable oscillations are destabilized. We hypothesize that the periodic stimulation modifies a parameter affecting the oscillation in a time dependent way and thereby induces a Hopf bifurcation. We explore this hypothesis using a schematic network model of an oscillator interacting with periodic stimulation. The mechanism of time-dependent change of a control parameter in the model captures two aspects of the dynamics observed in the data: (1) a gradual increase in tremor amplitude when the stimulation is switched off and a gradual decrease in tremor amplitude when the stimulation is switched on and (2) a time delay in the onset and offset of the oscillations. This mechanism is consistent with these rest tremor transition data and with the idea that HF-DBS acts via the gradual change of a network property. (c) 2001 American Institute of Physics.

We report two patients with pure word deafness (PWD) with tumour in the III ventricle region with obstructive hydrocephalus. A diagnosis of PWD was made in these two patients in view of impaired verbal comprehension in the presence of adequate hearing, intact acoustic stapedius reflex and well preserved environmental sound perception. Return of verbal comprehension following the radiation therapy observed is probably due to the reduction of the tumour mass and the release of thalamocortical auditory pathways from its compressive effect. Our findings support the hypothesis of the presence of discrete auditory pathways for mediation of verbal and non-verbal stimuli independently.
This paper focuses on treatments for schizophrenia (SZ)--treatments we have now and those we hope to have in the future. The treatments we have are based on serendipity, but are effective nonetheless. Pharmacologic characteristics of the most-prescribed drugs are reviewed. It is apparent that a spectrum of effective drugs exist to support individualized therapy. With a view to future discovery, a strategy is proposed for rational antipsychotic drug development. A few concrete examples from the author's own laboratory illustrate an application of the proposal. These data would support the existence of a drug target in the anterior cingulate and/or hippocampal cortex. The studies suggest a focus on the limbic cortex for SZ pathophysiology. It would depend on future discovery to test whether this proposal will be productive. For sure, the rapid advance of basic neuroscience provides untold promise for the future
It is widely held that people use multiple strategies to categorize their experiences in the world. We conducted a pair of neuroimaging experiments to identify the neural correlates of two of these strategies--rule application and exemplar similarity. Participants were instructed to perform either a rule- or an exemplar-based categorization task while changes in cerebral blood flow were measured using positron emission tomography. Patterns of neural activity were consistent with the predictions of cognitive models of rule-versus exemplar-based categorization and with existing neuroscience data. The identification of strategy-specific neural patterns offers future researchers a diagnostic tool for assessing strategy use in other situations.
We have constructed and characterized transgenic Drosophila lines with modified Na(+),K(+)-ATPase activity. Using a temperature dependent promoter from the hsp70 gene to drive expression of wild-type alpha subunit cDNA, we can conditionally rescue bang-sensitive paralysis and ouabain sensitivity of a Drosophila Na(+),K(+)-ATPase alpha subunit hypomorphic mutant, 2206. In contrast, a mutant alpha subunit (alpha(D369N)) leads to increased bang-sensitive paralysis and ouabain sensitivity. We can also generate temperature dependent phenotypes in wild-type Drosophila using the same hsp70 controlled alpha transgenes. Ouabain sensitivity was as expected, however, both bang sensitive paralysis or locomotor phenotypes became more severe regardless of the type of alpha subunit transgene. Using the Gal4-UAS system we have limited expression of alpha transgenes to cell types that normally express a particular Drosophila Na(+),K(+)-ATPase beta (Nervana) subunit isoform (Nrv1 or 2). The Nrv1-Gal4 driver results in lethality while the Nrv2-Gal4 driver shows reduced viability, locomotor function and uncontrolled wing beating. These transgenic lines will be useful for disrupting function in a broad range of cell types.



Cladribine, an adenosine deaminase inhibitor, has been developed and launched by Ortho Biotech in collaboration with The Scripps Research Institute for the treatment of several neoplasms, including acute myelogenous leukemia, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, chronic myelogenous leukemia, cutaneos T-cell lymphoma, hairy-cell leukemia and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. It was first launched in the US in February 1993. Ortho Biotech and The Scripps Research Institute have since been developing the compound for its potential use in multiple sclerosis (MS). In 1997, Ortho filed air NDA in the US for the use of cladribine in the treatment of relapsing-remitting and secondary progressive MS. An FDA drug advisory committee was planning to meet in January 1999 to discuss the NDA. However, Ortho cancelled the meeting. Following an FDA inspection during December 1998 and January 1999, the Scripps Clinic received a warning letter from the FDA in April 1999 regarding violations in the clinical studies of cladribine for MS, and Ortho withdrew the NDA after concluding that further clinical studies would be necessary. Cladribine has been known since the 1960s as an intermediate for the synthesis of 2-deoxynucleotides and its potential for the treatment of leukemia was disclosed in 1984. The Scripps Research Institute and the Johnson &amp; Johnson group hold several patents claiming preparation methods (US 05208327), and additional indications, such as multiple sclerosis (WO-09316706) and rheumatoid arthritis (US-05310732). The associated patent, WO-09323508, is the only one among those patents that claims the use of unmodified cladribine for the treatment of leukemia, but it focuses particularly on a specific form of the disease, chronic myelogenous leukemia. Analysts at UBS Warburg predicted in October 2001, that the product would make US sales of $50 million in 2004 for its MS indication.
Hippocampal principal neurons-'place cells'-exhibit location-specific firing. Recent work addresses the link between place cell activity and hippocampal memory function. New tasks that challenge spatial memory allow recording from single neurons, as well as ensembles of neurons, during memory computations, and insights into the cellular mechanisms of spatial memory are beginning to emerge.
Recent studies have provided important information concerning the neural signals that subserve vocal learning in songbirds: advanced signal processing techniques are beginning to clarify the behavioral trajectories followed by developing birds; single-unit physiology in behaving animals is providing important clues about sensory and motor representations during learning; in vitro whole-cell recordings are revealing patterns of synaptic communication; and experimental alterations in song behavior have advanced our understanding of specific structure-function relationships. The construction of theoretical and computational models will be crucial in integrating such disparate experimental results.
Now that recordings of multiple, individual action potentials are being made with chronic electrodes, it seems that previous work showing simple encoding of movement parameters in these spike trains can be used as a real-time control signal for prosthetic arms. Efficient extraction algorithms can compensate for the limited ensemble sample acquired with this emerging technology.
Recent single-unit recording studies have clarified how multiple parameters of movement are signaled by individual cortical and cerebellar neurons, and also that multiple coordinate frames are utilized. Cognitive processes also modulate the firing of these neurons. The various signals and coordinate systems vary in time and evolve throughout a behavioral sequence, consistent with the demands of the task and the required sensorimotor transformations.
The lysosomal disease concept was developed by Hers in 1963. At the time, few could have imagined the breadth and depth of knowledge about cell biology that these disorders would reveal. With a collective hindsight of nearly four decades, it is fair to say that we have learned more about the lysosomal system of cells through the study of these rare diseases than by any other means. Given the advancements of the past year, it is apparent that some of the most significant insights are yet to come, as we delineate the last remaining and most enigmatic of these diseases.
Clinical experience seems to indicate that botulinum toxin injections can, in selected patients with upper motor neurone syndrome, reduce spasticity and improve voluntary movement and active function. However, double-blind placebo-controlled trials have had difficulty showing active functional improvement, despite the clear ability of botulinum toxin to reduce spasticity. This prompts a re-analysis of the basic assumption that spasticity impairs voluntary movement and a review of the methodology of the clinical trials. Motor dysfunction is usually caused by weakness and the other &quot;negative&quot; features of upper motor neurone syndrome, rather than muscle overactivity. Recent research has explored the pathophysiological basis of the voluntary movement disorder, in particular the role of the various forms of motor overactivity, which might be amenable to botulinum toxin treatment. The failure of double-blind placebo-controlled clinical trials to show improvement in active function is, to a large extent, a result of their methodology, especially patient selection, injection protocols, and the choice of outcome measures. Clinical trials need to be re-designed and based upon expert experience and a better understanding of the pathophysiology of the motor disorder.
Despite no clear explanation of the mechanism underlying chronic daily headache, sensitization of central nociceptive neurons is one possibility. Either prolonged activation of peripheral nociceptors or any factors that can alter the endogenous pain control system can trigger this process. A decrease in platelet serotonin has been observed in patients with chronic tension-type headache as well as migraine patients with medication-induced headache. It was also shown that chronic analgesic exposure led to changes in the serotonin content and the density of the 5-HT(2A) receptor in the cerebral cortex. The plasticity of the serotonin-dependent pain control system may facilitate the process of sensitization and results in the development of chronic daily headache.
A basic problem in the discovery and development of novel drugs to be used in the treatment of neurological and psychiatric disorders is the absence of relevant in vitro or in vivo animal models that can yield results which can be extrapolated to man. Drug research now benefits from the fast development of functional imaging techniques such as positron emission tomography (PET) which trace radiolabelled molecules directly in the human brain. PET uses molecules that are labelled with short-lived radionuclides and injected intravenously into experimental animals, human volunteers or patients. The most frequent approach is to study how an unlabelled drug inhibits specific binding of a well characterised selective PET radioligand. The alternative direct approach is to radiolabel a new potential drug and to trace its uptake, anatomical distribution and binding in brain. Furthermore, the effects of a novel drug on physiological-biochemical parameters, such as glucose metabolism or blood flow, can also be assessed. The demonstration of quantitative relationships between drug binding in vivo and drug effects in patients is used to validate targets for drug action, to correlate pharmacological and physiological effects, and to optimise clinical treatment.
The adult cerebral cortex contains nicotinic acetylcholine (ACh) receptors vital to cortical function. However, little is known about the assembly of embryonic nicotinic receptor subunits into functional receptors or whether they play an active role in cortical development. We now report evidence of functional nicotinic acetylcholine receptor channels in fetal mouse cerebral cortex as early as embryonic day 10 (E10), when the cortex consists of dividing stem and progenitor cells. Patch-clamp electrophysiological measurements indicate that nicotine and ACh evoke sizable inward currents characteristic of nicotinic receptors, that are strongly rectifying with a reversal potential near 0 mV. Three different nicotinic agonists, ACh, nicotine, and dimethylphenylpiperazinium, evoked cytosolic Ca(2+) signals. Agonist-evoked Ca(2+) signals and electrophysiological responses were found in greater than 70% of all E10-E11 cells tested and were blocked by nicotinic receptor antagonists. The Ca(2+) response to nicotinic agonists was markedly prolonged in cells from early embryonic stages relative to later stages of development. alpha3, alpha4, and alpha7 receptor subunit proteins were detected immunocytochemically in cortical cells from E10 to birth. The incidence of each subunit declined with embryonic age, suggesting a role in early development. We discuss the possible function of nicotinic receptors in early cortical development and their role as a target for nicotine in the developmental pathologies associated with the fetal tobacco syndrome.
Molecular genetic analysis has yielded a detailed mechanistic understanding of invertebrate and vertebrate circadian oscillators, but we still know little about how such molecular oscillators are connected to rhythmic physiological processes. Two recent papers in Cell and Neuron now address this scientific issue through the use of gene chip technology to identify clock-regulated genes in an animal species.
Neuralized acts in a subset of Notch-dependent cell fate decisions including lateral inhibition in Drosophila neurogenesis. Three recent papers reveal that Neuralized acts as a ubiquitin ligase and triggers endocytosis of the ligand Delta.
Small eye rats, which have a mutation in a gene encoding transcription factor Pax6, exhibit impaired migration of the midbrain neural crest cells, thereby showing severe craniofacial defects. Orthotopic grafting of the midbrain neural crest cells taken from the wild-type into Pax6 mutant embryos has suggested environmental defects along the migratory pathway of the midbrain crest cells. In the present study we found that the HNK-1 carbohydrate epitope was ectopically localized in the frontonasal epithelium of Pax6 mutant embryos. The GlcAT-P gene, encoding an enzyme for the synthesis of the HNK-1 epitope, was also expressed ectopically in the frontonasal epithelium of the mutant. In explant cultures, the migration rate of neural crest cells from the midbrain, but not from the forebrain, was significantly less in HNK-1-coated dishes than in non-coated dishes. These results suggest that the arrested migration of the midbrain crest cells in Pax6 mutant embryos may, at least in part, be due to the inhibitory effect of the HNK-1 epitope ectopically localized in the frontonasal epithelium.
Little is known about chronic posttraumatic headache (PTH) in children and adolescents. In this study we report on symptoms, clinical findings, and management of all children seen in our headache clinic who presented with recurrent headache following head injuries. A total of 23 children were identified over a period of 4 years. Twenty-one children (13 male, eight female; mean age 11.2 years, age range 3.3 to 14.9 years, median 12.1 years) fulfilled the International Headache Society's clinical criteria for the diagnosis of chronic PTH. Mean duration of headache was 13.3 months (range 2 to 60 months, median 7 months). Children were followed up for a period of 5 to 29 months (mean 12.5 months, median 9 months). Head injuries were classified as serious in four patients and minor in 17. Clinical variables were compared between children with PTH and those without a history of head injury. The headaches were migraine in five patients, tension type in 13, and mixed in three patients. Tension-type headache was significantly more common in children with chronic PTH than in those with no history of head injury, but the clinical course was comparable in the two groups.
Amphiphysin family members are implicated in synaptic vesicle endocytosis, actin localization and one isoform is an autoantigen in neurological autoimmune disorder; however, there has been no genetic analysis of Amphiphysin function in higher eukaryotes. We show that Drosophila Amphiphysin is localized to actin-rich membrane domains in many cell types, including apical epithelial membranes, the intricately folded apical rhabdomere membranes of photoreceptor neurons and the postsynaptic density of glutamatergic neuromuscular junctions. Flies that lack all Amphiphysin function are viable, lack any observable endocytic defects, but have abnormal localization of the postsynaptic proteins Discs large, Lethal giant larvae and Scribble, altered synaptic physiology, and behavioral defects. Misexpression of Amphiphysin outside its normal membrane domain in photoreceptor neurons results in striking morphological defects. The strong misexpression phenotype coupled with the mild mutant and lack of phenotypes suggests that Amphiphysin acts redundantly with other proteins to organize specialized membrane domains within a diverse array of cell types.
Most studies on the origin of oligodendrocyte lineage have been performed in the spinal cord. By contrast, molecular mechanisms that regulate the appearance of the oligodendroglial lineage in the brain have not yet attracted much attention. We provide evidence for three distinct sources of oligodendrocytes in the mouse telencephalon. In addition to two subpallial ventricular foci, the anterior entopeduncular area and the medial ganglionic eminence, the rostral telencephalon also gives rise to oligodendrocytes. We show that oligodendrocytes in the olfactory bulb are generated within the rostral pallium from ventricular progenitors characterized by the expression of PLP: We provide evidence that these Plp oligodendrocyte progenitors do not depend on signal transduction mediated by platelet-derived growth factor receptors (PDGFRs), and therefore propose that they belong to a different lineage than the PDGFRalpha-expressing progenitors. Moreover, induction of oligodendrocytes in the telencephalon is dependent on sonic hedgehog signaling, as in the spinal cord. In all these telencephalic ventricular territories, oligodendrocyte progenitors were detected at about the same developmental stage as in the spinal cord. However, both in vivo and in vitro, the differentiation into O4-positive pre-oligodendrocytes was postponed by 4-5 days in the telencephalon in comparison with the spinal cord. This delay between determination and differentiation appears to be intrinsic to telencephalic oligodendrocytes, as it was not shortened by diffusible or cell-cell contact factors present in the spinal cord.
In both invertebrate and lower vertebrate species, decussated commissural axons travel away from the midline and assume positions within distinct longitudinal tracts. We demonstrate that in the developing chick and mouse spinal cord, most dorsally situated commissural neuron populations extend axons across the ventral midline and through the ventral white matter along an arcuate trajectory on the contralateral side of the floor plate. Within the dorsal (chick) and intermediate (mouse) marginal zone, commissural axons turn at a conserved boundary of transmembrane ephrin expression, adjacent to which they form a discrete ascending fiber tract. In vitro perturbation of endogenous EphB-ephrinB interactions results in the failure of commissural axons to turn at the appropriate dorsoventral position on the contralateral side of the spinal cord; consequently, axons inappropriately invade more dorsal regions of B-class ephrin expression in the dorsal spinal cord. Taken together, these observations suggest that B-class ephrins act locally during a late phase of commissural axon pathfinding to specify the dorsoventral position at which decussated commissural axons turn into the longitudinal axis.
We have examined the role of the two closely related homeobox genes Gsh1 and Gsh2, in the development of the striatum and the olfactory bulb. These two genes are expressed in a partially overlapping pattern by ventricular zone progenitors of the ventral telencephalon. Gsh2 is expressed in both of the ganglionic eminences while Gsh1 is largely confined to the medial ganglionic eminence. Previous studies have shown that Gsh2(-/-) embryos suffer from an early misspecification of precursors in the lateral ganglionic eminence (LGE) leading to disruptions in striatal and olfactory bulb development. This molecular misspecification is present only in early precursor cells while at later stages the molecular identity of these cells appears to be normalized. Concomitant with this normalization, Gsh1 expression is notably expanded in the Gsh2(-/-) LGE. While no obvious defects in striatal or olfactory bulb development were detected in Gsh1(-/-) embryos, Gsh1/2 double homozygous mutants displayed more severe disruptions than were observed in the Gsh2 mutant alone. Accordingly, the molecular identity of LGE precursors in the double mutant is considerably more perturbed than in Gsh2 single mutants. These findings, therefore, demonstrate an important role for Gsh1 in the development of the striatum and olfactory bulb of Gsh2 mutant mice. In addition, our data indicate a role for Gsh genes in controlling the size of the LGE precursor pools, since decreasing copies of Gsh2 and Gsh1 alleles results in a notable decrease in precursor cell number, particularly in the subventricular zone.
The present study is part of a research program designed to better understand the neurochemical mechanisms underlying the abuse liability of 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) in humans. In these studies, MDMA will be compared to prototypical dopamine (D-amphetamine) and serotonin (meta-chlorophenylpiperazine, mCPP) releasing agents on a variety of measures related to dependence. In order to determine an acceptable dose range (safe but active) of MDMA and mCPP for these studies, moderate MDMA users were administered escalating doses of MDMA (75, 110 and 145 mg/70 kg) and mCPP (17.5, 35 and 52.5 mg/70 kg). Each participant received a single dose under controlled laboratory conditions, i.e. this was a six-group design with a separate group for each dose. There were five participants tested in each group. MDMA increased blood pressure and heart rate whereas mCPP had no effect on these physiological measures. MDMA produced increases in subjective effects indicative of both stimulant (increases in POMS Elation, ARCI Amphetamine, VAS High and Stimulated scale scores) and hallucinogenic effects (increases on five of the six scales of the Hallucinogenic Rating Scale). mCPP produced similar stimulant effects (e.g. increases on POMS Elation, VAS High and Stimulated), as well as hallucinogenic effects (four of the six scales of the Hallucinogenic Rating Scale), which has not been observed in previous studies.
The effects of morphine on extracellular dopamine levels in brain have never been studied over a wide range of doses within a single study. This has made it difficult to make definitive interpretations of drug interactions with morphine. An inhibition of morphine-induced increases in dopamine could be interpreted as either antagonism or potentiation depending the shape of the morphine dose-response curve. Accordingly, the aim of the present study was to determine the effects of a wide range of morphine doses (0, 5, 10, 20 and 30 mg/kg, i.p.) on extracellular dopamine, DOPAC and HVA levels in the nucleus accumbens and striatum of awake and freely moving female Sprague-Dawley rats. The results show that, in both brain regions, the dose-response curve for morphine-induced increases in dopamine is non-monotonic while the dose-response curve for morphine-induced increases in DOPAC and HVA is monotonic in the nucleus accumbens. The results of this study are discussed in terms of their implications for interpreting drug interactions with morphine and with relationship to morphine's mode of action at mu and kappa opioid receptors.
We report a case of acute-onset unilateral tinnitus in a 25-year-old woman. Analysis of imaging studies indicated that the tinnitus was likely caused by an acute hemorrhage of a small cavernous angioma that was located adjacent to the contralateral primary auditory cortex. This case provides substantial support for the concept that central tinnitus might indeed represent a pathologic activation of neural networks of nonspecific auditory perception.
A large number of chemical pollutants including phthalates, alkylphenolic compounds, polychlorinated biphenyls and polychlorinated dibenzodioxins, organochlorine pesticides, bisphenol A, and metals including lead, mercury, and cadmium have the ability to disrupt endocrine function in animals. Some of these same chemicals have been shown to alter cognitive function in animals and humans. Because hormonally mediated events play a central role in central nervous system development and function, a number of researchers have speculated that the changes in cognitive function are mediated by the endocrine-like actions of these chemicals. In this paper we review the evidence that cognitive effects of chemicals classified as environmental endocrine disruptors are mediated by changes in hormonal function. We begin by briefly reviewing the role of gonadal steroids, thyroid hormones, and glucocorticoids in brain development and brain function. We then review the endocrine changes and cognitive effects that have been reported for selected endocrine-disrupting chemicals, discuss the evidence for causal relationships between endocrine disruption and cognitive effects, and suggest directions for future research.

Permanent cognitive impairment is common following status epilepticus (SE) in both humans and animals. We examined the effect of the NMDA antagonist ketamine administered after SE onset on two forms of associative learning in the rat: conditioned taste aversion and fear-conditioned analgesia. Following the onset of lithium/pilocarpine-induced SE, rats were administered either ketamine (100 mg/kg) or acepromazine (25 mg/kg). Acepromazine-treated animals show marked deficits in both learning measures at 1 month after SE. In contrast, ketamine-treated and nonepileptic control animals did not differ in performance for either task. Although studies have shown that ketamine is ineffective at controlling electrographic seizures early in SE, these results are consistent with previous studies showing that ketamine can preserve learning proficiency if administered shortly after seizure onset. As a clinically available drug, ketamine may prove useful in the treatment of SE when combined with conventional antiepileptic strategies.
The study aimed to describe the neuropsychological profiles in patients with treated Wilson's disease (WD). The series included 19 symptomatic and 2 asymptomatic patients with a mean age of 35.3 +/- 9.2 years. They were tested with the Automated Psychological Test system (APT), a comprehensive computerised neuropsychological test battery. APT comprised eleven separate tests and assessed five essential types of neuropsychological functions: motor functions, basic neuropsychological functions, specific cognitive functions, memory, and executive functions. The results were compared to current norms of the test battery. The symptomatic WD patients had significantly lower performance than the norms on all finger tapping tasks, the simple reaction time, the simultaneous capacity background task, the short-term memory test, the index of word decoding speed, the grammatical reasoning test, and the perceptual maze test. They were significantly higher on the index of impulsive errors, and used a significantly more global processing mode in the test of selective attention. The female symptomatic patients displayed more pronounced neuropsychological deficits than the males in the complex tasks. WD patients displayed a specific profile of moderate neuropsychological impairment. The results are theoretically interesting and have practical implications for the management of WD patients, e.g. some patients confronted with the results have had increased compliance.
Reliable measurement of different tissue volumes in the living brain is of great importance for human brain research. In this article, we report on the inter- and intraoperator reliability and scan-rescan reproducibility of segmented intracranial tissue volumes from MR images using the image analysis software suite BRAINS. The absolute data of tissue volume measurements are also presented. The reliability and consistency of the measurements of the segmented volumes were excellent. The segmentation is robust and rapid and the volume measurements are plausible and suitable for quantitative studies in clinical brain research.
We report here the isolation and functional expression of a neuropeptide Y (NPY) receptor from the river lamprey, Lampetra fluviatilis. The receptor displays approximately 50% amino-acid sequence identity to all previously cloned Y1-subfamily receptors including Y1, Y4, and y6 and the teleost subtypes Ya, Yb and Yc. Phylogenetic analyses point to a closer relationship with Y4 and Ya/b/c suggesting that the lamprey receptor could possibly represent a pro-orthologue of some or all of those gnathostome receptors. Our results support the notion that the Y1 subfamily increased in number by genome or large-scale chromosome duplications, one of which may have taken place prior to the divergence of lampreys and gnathostomes whereas the second duplication probably occurred in the gnathostome lineage after this split. Functional expression of the lamprey receptor in a cell line facilitated specific binding of the three endogenous lamprey peptides NPY, peptide YY and peptide MY with picomolar affinities. Binding studies with a large panel of NPY analogues revealed indiscriminate binding properties similar to those of another nonselective Y1-subfamily receptor, zebrafish Ya. RT-PCR detected receptor mRNA in the central nervous system as well as in several peripheral organs suggesting diverse functions. This lamprey receptor is evolutionarily the most distant NPY receptor that clearly belongs to the Y1 subfamily as defined in mammals, which shows that subtypes Y2 and Y5 arose even earlier in evolution.
We investigated the possibility that estrogen and exercise interact in the hippocampus and regulate brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), a molecule increasingly recognized for its role in plasticity and neuron function. An important aspect of this study is to examine the effect of different time intervals between estrogen loss and estrogen replacement intervention. We demonstrate that in the intact female rat, physical activity increases hippocampal BDNF mRNA and protein levels. However, the exercise effect on BDNF up-regulation is reduced in the absence of estrogen, in a time-dependent manner. In addition, voluntary activity itself is stimulated by the presence of estrogen. In exercising animals, estrogen deprivation reduced voluntary activity levels, while estrogen replacement restored activity to normal levels. In sedentary animals, estrogen deprivation (ovariectomy) decreased baseline BDNF mRNA and protein, which were restored by estrogen replacement. Despite reduced activity levels in the ovariectomized condition, exercise increased BDNF mRNA levels in the hippocampus after short-term (3 weeks) estrogen deprivation. However, long-term estrogen-deprivation blunted the exercise effect. After 7 weeks of estrogen deprivation, exercise alone no longer affected either BDNF mRNA or protein levels. However, exercise in combination with long-term estrogen replacement increased BDNF protein above the effects of estrogen replacement alone. Interestingly, protein levels across all conditions correlated most closely with mRNA levels in the dentate gyrus, suggesting that expression of mRNA in this hippocampal region may be the major contributor to the hippocampal BDNF protein pool. The interaction of estrogen, physical activity and hippocampal BDNF is likely to be an important issue for maintenance of brain health, plasticity and general well-being, particularly in women.
The associative inhibitory control of behaviour is a major component of Pavlovian learning theory, but little is known about its functional neuroanatomy. The associative effects of differential inhibition of conditioned behaviour were investigated by mapping learning-related changes in brain activity of the rat with fluorodeoxyglucose autoradiography. Of interest was how a tone is processed in auditory and extra-auditory systems of the rat brain under similar behavioural, but different associative conditions. Conditioned emotional suppression to drink was used to assess training, and summation tests were used to verify that the tone became an inhibitor of conditioned behaviour. In the Inhibitor group, presentations of a tone stimulus alone were intermixed with presentations of a light stimulus followed by footshock. In the Pseudorandom group, the same numbers of tone, light and footshock presentations were used, but they were presented in a pseudorandom fashion. After training, fluorodeoxyglucose uptake was measured during tone presentations. Behavioural responding to the tone was similar during fluorodeoxyglucose uptake in the two groups, yet associative effects were found in brain activity. In the auditory system, the tone produced reduced fluorodeoxyglucose uptake in major relay nuclei (cochlear nucleus and inferior colliculus) in the Inhibitor group relative to the Pseudorandom group. The tone inhibitor produced similar decreases in the septohippocampal system and the retrosplenial cortex. In contrast, the tone inhibitor produced activity increases in somatosensory and reticulocerebellar systems. The findings provide the first detailed map of neural regions involved in the learned associations controlling differential inhibition of conditioned behaviour.
To study the role of glutamate in cocaine-conditioned responses, we developed a rat model in which conditioned locomotion is produced by repeated pairing of cocaine with discrete stimuli (flashing light and metronome). &quot;Paired&quot; subjects received cocaine (15 mg/kg) prior to six exposures to stimuli for 30 min in the test environment. &quot;Unpaired&quot; subjects received equivalent presentations of the stimuli yet received cocaine in home cages. Tests with the stimuli alone demonstrated that the conditioned locomotion displayed by Paired subjects was evident at 3 or 10 days post-training and resistant to two sessions of testing. The degree of conditioned locomotion was not correlated with the subjects' response to novelty or cocaine. Administration of the noncompetitive AMPA receptor antagonist GYKI 52466 (2.5 mg/kg, a dose without effect on spontaneous activity) attenuated the expression of conditioned activity. In vivo microdialysis revealed that Paired subjects had significantly lower basal glutamate levels in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) than did Unpaired subjects when no stimuli were presented. Presentation of the conditioned stimuli resulted in significant increases in glutamate levels in the NAc in the Paired group whilst glutamate levels in the Unpaired group remained unchanged. The associative control of glutamate levels in the NAc by stimuli formerly paired with a drug of abuse is an unprecedented finding. It is likely to reflect the convergence of excitatory inputs that the NAc receives from limbic structures.
The role of the pedunculopontine nucleus (PPN) in the pathophysiology of Parkinson's disease is still unclear. Using microrecordings, we investigated the changes occurring in PPN neurons after lesions of the substantia nigra compacta (SNc) and the role of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) in these changes. In normal rats the firing rate of PPN neurons was 10.6 +/- 1.4 spikes/s, the majority of neurons (91%) having a regular firing pattern, 6% irregular and 3% in bursts. In rats with 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of the SNc, the firing rate increased significantly to 18.3 +/- 3.0 spikes/s compared with normal rats. In addition, the firing pattern changed significantly: 70% of the neurons discharged regularly, 27% irregularly and 3% in bursts. In rats with ibotenic acid lesions of the STN, the firing rate decreased significantly to 7.2 +/- 0.9 spikes/s and the firing pattern changed significantly: 50% of the neurons discharged regularly, 43% irregularly and 7% in bursts. The rats with combined SNc and STN lesions showed no change in the firing rate (8.5 +/- 1.0 spikes/s) compared to normal rats. The firing pattern changed significantly: 69% of the cells discharged regularly, 26% irregularly and 5% in bursts. These findings demonstrate that PPN neurons are overactive and more irregular in the 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats, suggesting the implication of this nucleus in the pathophysiology of parkinsonism. Moreover, the fact that STN lesions induced a reduction in the firing rate of the PPN in normal rats and a normalization of the firing rate in rats with 6-hydroxydopamine lesions suggests that this nucleus is under major control of the STN.
Long-term potentiation (LTP) in both area CA1 and the dentate gyrus is attenuated by stress and the evidence is consistent with the view that this is a consequence of increased activation of glucocorticoid receptors, in the hippocampus, following the stress-induced increase in circulating corticosterone. It has been shown that expression of the pro-inflammatory cytokine, interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta), is increased in hippocampus in response to stress; this finding together with the observation that IL-1beta exerts an inhibitory effect on LTP, suggests that IL-1beta may play a key role in mediating this inhibitory effect of stress on LTP. In this study, we explore this possibility and report that stress is also associated with increased reactive oxygen species production. The evidence presented supports the view that this is secondary to the stress-induced increase in IL-1beta concentration, as IL-1beta increased activity of superoxide dismutase and increased reactive oxygen species accumulation in hippocampus in vitro. We report that the inhibitory effect of stress on LTP is mimicked by H2O2, which increases reactive oxygen species accumulation, and by IL-1beta, the effect of which is overcome by the antioxidant, phenylarsine oxide. The hypothesis that the stress-induced increase in reactive oxygen species production may underlie the suppression of LTP is further supported by the finding that the effect of stress is abrogated by dietary manipulation with antioxidant vitamins E and C.
Dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons respond to ATP with transient, persistent or biphasic inward currents. In contrast, the ATP responses in nodose neurons are persistent. These sustained currents are also heterogeneous, with one component being accounted for by P2X2/3 receptors, and the residual response probably mediated by P2X2 receptors, although the direct evidence for this has been lacking. In the present study, we examined the P2X receptors on DRG and nodose neurons from P2X3-deficient (P2X3-/-) mice, using whole cell voltage-clamp recording and immunohistochemistry. We found that all P2X3-/- DRG neurons lacked rapidly desensitizing response to ATP, and both DRG and nodose neurons from P2X3-null mutant mice no longer responded to alpha,beta-methylene ATP (alphabetameATP). In contrast, ATP evoked persistent inward current in 12% of DRG neurons and 84% of nodose neurons from P2X3-/- mice. This retained persistent response to ATP on nodose neurons had an EC50 for ATP of 77 microm, was antagonized by Cibacron blue and pyridoxal-5-phosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulphonic acid, potentiated by Zn2+ and acidification, but not enhanced by ivermectin or diinosine pentaphosphate. 2',3'-O-Trinitrophenyl-ATP antagonized this response with an IC50 of 8 microm. All these properties are consistent with those of recombinant P2X2 homomeric receptors. Furthermore, specific P2X2 receptor immunoreactivity detected in wild-type sensory neurons was unaltered in null mutant mice. Therefore, the alphabetameATP-insensitive persistent responses on nodose neurons are likely to be mediated by P2X2 homomers, which contribute to 60% of currents evoked by 100 microm ATP in the wild type.
Excitotoxic neuronal cell death is characterized by an overactivation of glutamate receptors, in particular of the NMDA subtype, and the stimulation of the neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS), which catalyses the formation of nitric oxide (NO) from l-arginine (L-Arg). At low L-Arg concentrations, nNOS generates NO and superoxide (O2(.)(-)), favouring the production of the toxin peroxynitrite (ONOO-). Here we report that NMDA application for five minutes in the absence of added L-Arg induces neuronal cell death, and that the presence of L-Arg during NMDA application prevents cell loss by blocking O2(.)(-) and ONOO- formation and by inhibiting mitochondrial depolarization. Because L-Arg is transferred from glial cells to neurons upon activation of glial glutamate receptors, we hypothesized that glial cells play an important modulator role in excitotoxicity by releasing L-Arg. Indeed, as we further show, glial-derived L-Arg inhibits NMDA-induced toxic radical formation, mitochondrial dysfunction and cell death. Glial cells thus may protect neurons from excitotoxicity by supplying L-Arg. This potential neuroprotective mechanism may lead to an alternative approach for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases involving excitotoxic processes, such as ischemia.

The identification of the genetic defect underlying the obese phenotype of the viable yellow mouse, ectopic overexpression of the agouti protein which acts as antagonist at the melanocortin-4 receptor, together with the demonstration that the brain melanocortin system was one major downstream effector pathway of leptin signaling has put forward melanocortin receptors as drug targets for obesity. The lack of compounds acting as melanocortin receptor antagonists was the reason why pharmacological studies had not recognized melanocortin receptors as important drug targets earlier. Blockade of brain melanocortin receptors results in increased food intake and body weight, whereas stimulation of the brain melanocortin system results in decreased food intake and activation of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis. Anorexia nervosa is characterized by decreased body weight and food intake accompanied by changes in neuroendocrine systems such as strong activation of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis. Since agouti-related protein suppresses the activity of the melanocortin system, the AgRP gene was investigated as candidate gene in anorexia nervosa. One variant of the AgRP gene was associated with anorexia nervosa, thus putting forward melanocortin receptor blockade as putative pharmacotherapy. Investigating variations in candidate genes in disease populations appears to be a fruitful approach towards the identification of drug targets.
The dopamine transporter is a plasma membrane protein that controls the spatial and temporal domains of dopamine neurotransmission through the accumulation of extracellular dopamine. The dopamine transporter may play a role in numerous dopamine-linked neuropsychiatric disorders. We review the cloning and organization of the human dopamine transporter gene, polymorphisms in its coding and noncoding sequence, and emerging data on its transcriptional regulation.
Currently the therapy of anorexia nervosa is a relevant clinical problem. The percentage of patients who respond to short-term pharmacotherapy and psychotherapy is still low and the condition often leads to chronic pathology or death. The present study aims to determine outcome predictors beyond personality traits, eating psychopathology, or particular clinical features. Forty patients with restricter type anorexia nervosa were tested, at T0 and after 180 days, with psychometric tests and clinical evaluation instruments. Patients were then divided into two groups. One group included patients who showed relevant clinical improvement; the other included not-yet-improved patients. A lower Novelty Seeking, higher levels of Ascetism and Maturity Fears characterised the not-yet-improved group. Correlation showed evidence of diverse bonds between personality and psychopathology in the improved and not-yet-improved groups. The psychopathology of non-yet-improved patients seemed to be more linked to their temperamental features, whereas improved patients seemed to be more influenced by their character. Different levels of psychological functioning can be expressed. The present data suggest focusing pharmacotherapy and psychotherapy, even family counseling, with a progression more strictly related to the current personality functioning level and psychopathology of each patient.
Aggressive behaviour in psychiatric inpatients was assessed before and after a training course for staff members. The Social Dysfunction Aggression Scale (SDAS) was used to report and assess aggressive behaviour over time, and the Staff Observation Aggression Scale (SOAS) to report and assess single aggressive incidents. In addition, the numbers of nursing staff members who were on sick leave because of injuries in the periods before and after the course were recorded and compared. No statistically significant reduction was found in the number of aggressive patients or in the number of staff members on sick leave. One interesting finding was a lower reporting on the SOAS of perceived aggressive incidents after the training course in comparison with the SDAS reports. Directed verbal aggressiveness and violence towards things were found to be predictors of violence.
Extracellular field potentials, evoked by stimulation of the cortico-NAcc border, were recorded from the nucleus accumbens (NAcc) in horizontal slices of rat ventral forebrain. The peak amplitude of the population spike/excitatory postsynaptic potential complex (PEC, N2 component) was reduced by 78+/-2% ( n=44) by the antagonist of AMPA-type glutamate receptors, 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2, 3-dione (CNQX, 10 microM). Dopamine (100 microM) reversibly depressed the peak amplitude of the PEC by 40+/-3% ( n=44). The GABA(A) receptor antagonists picrotoxin (10, 30 microM), or bicuculline methiodide (BMI, 20 microM), significantly reduced the PEC depression caused by dopamine (100 microM) to 9+/-3% ( n=20), 12+/-7% ( n=8) and 13+/-3% ( n=4) of control respectively, which, in the case of BMI, was reversible on washout of BMI. In slices with the frontal cortex removed (decorticated), dopamine (100 microM) was without effect on the PEC ( n=14). In contrast, the inhibition of the PEC by adenosine (by 40+/-9% in control, n=4), which was blocked by the A1 receptor antagonist 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine (DPCPX, 200 nM), was unaffected by picrotoxin (50 microM, n=4), and persisted in decorticated slices, albeit increased to 88+/-2% ( n=4) of control. These results indicate that the depression of the cortico-NAcc synaptic transmission by dopamine in this preparation is due to an action in frontal, possibly piriform, cortex, which may involve modulation of intracortical GABAergic circuitry. In contrast, depression by adenosine is consistent with a presynaptic action via A1 receptors on intra-NAcc glutamate-releasing terminals, although there may be an additional action of adenosine within the cortex that also influences the cortico-NAcc PEC.
The postural response to translation of the support surface may be influenced by the performance of an ongoing voluntary task. This study was designed to test this proposal by applying lateral perturbations while subjects handled a load in the frontal plane. Measurements were made of medio-lateral displacement of the centre of pressure, angular displacement of the trunk and thigh in the frontal plane and intra-abdominal pressure. Subjects were translated randomly to the left and right in a variety of conditions that involved standing either quietly or with a 5 kg load in their left hand, which they were required either to hold statically or to lift or lower. The results indicate that when the perturbation occurred towards the loaded left side the subjects were able to return their centre of pressure, trunk and thigh rapidly and accurately to the initial position. However, when the perturbation occurred towards the right (away from the load) this correction was delayed and associated with multiple changes in direction of movement, suggesting decreased efficiency of the postural response. This reduced efficiency can be explained by a conflict between the motor commands for the ongoing voluntary task and the postural response, and/or by the mechanical effect of the asymmetrical addition of load to the trunk.
The question of how multijoint movement is controlled can be studied by discovering how the variance of joint trajectories is structured in relation to important task-related variables. In a previous study of the sit-to-stand task, for instance, variations of body segment postures that leave the position of the body's center of mass (CM) unchanged were significantly greater than variations of body segment posture that varied the CM position. The present experiments tested the hypothesis that such structuring of joint configuration variability is accentuated when the mechanical or perceptual task demands are made more challenging. Six subjects performed the sit-to-stand task without vision (eyes closed), either on a normal or on a narrow support surface. An additional constraint on the postural task was introduced in a third condition by requiring subjects to maintain light touch (less than 1 N) with the fingertips while coming to a standing position on the narrow base of support. The joint configurations observed at each point in normalized time were analyzed with respect to trial-to-trial variability. The task variables CM and head position were used to define goal-equivalent sets of joint configurations (&quot;uncontrolled manifolds,&quot; UCMs) within which variation of joint configuration leaves the task variables unchanged. The variability of joint configurations across trials was decomposed into components that did not affect (within the UCM) and that did affect (orthogonal to the UCM) the values of these task variables. Our results replicate the earlier finding of much larger variability in directions of joint space that leave the CM unchanged compared with directions that affect CM position. This effect was even more pronounced here than in the previous experiment, probably because of the more difficult perceptual conditions in the current study (eyes closed). When the mechanical difficulty of the task was increased, the difference between the two types of joint variability was further accentuated, primarily through increase in goal-equivalent variance. This provides evidence for the hypothesis that under challenging task constraints increased variability is selectively directed into task-irrelevant degrees of freedom. Because differential control along different directions of joint space requires coordination among joint angles, this observation supports the view that the CNS responds to increased task difficulty through enhanced coordination among degrees of freedom. The adaptive nature of this coordination is further illustrated by the similar enhanced use of goal-equivalent joint combinations to achieve a stable CM position when subjects stood up under the additional constraint of maintaining light touch with the fingertips. This was achieved by channeling goal-equivalent variability into different directions of joint configuration space.
We examined brain activation patterns occurring during the production and encoding of a motor sequence. Participants performed a variant of the serial reaction-time task under two conditions. The first condition was designed to foster the engagement of explicit mechanisms of knowledge acquisition. The second condition was intended to encourage the engagement of implicit learning mechanisms that would be more typical of the standard serial reaction-time task. In the first condition, the acquisition of explicit knowledge about an 8-element ordered sequence led to a significant and rapid decline in reaction time. By contrast, the second condition, the task in which a sequence was presented unbeknownst to participants, did not yield changes in reaction time. Several brain regions, including prefrontal cortex, superior and inferior parietal lobules, and cerebellum, exhibited explicit learning-related activation. The prefrontal cortex and inferior parietal lobules increased their levels of activation between the beginning and end of the experiment, while primary motor, primary sensory, and cerebellar cortex decreased their levels of activation from the beginning to the end of the experiment. We propose a model in which two processes, a learning-related increase and a habituation process might interact to produce the activation patterns observed during movement sequence acquisition. In short, the prefrontal cortex and inferior parietal lobule together direct and recruit superior parietal lobule and cerebellum to encode and perform the sequence. The increased activation in prefrontal cortex and inferior parietal lobule may represent the activity of a working memory circuit that functions in the acquisition and recall of sequence information.
Recent studies implicate inflammation and complement mediated attack as early events in drusen biogenesis. The investigations described here sought to determine whether primary sites of complement activation could be identified within drusen substructure, and whether known inhibitors of the terminal pathway of complement are present in drusen and/or retinal pigmented epithelial (RPE) cells that lie in close proximity to drusen. Immunohistochemical examination shows two fluid phase regulators of the terminal pathway, vitronectin (Vn, S-protein) and clusterin (apolipoprotein J), to be present in drusen; Vn also accumulates in the cytoplasm of RPE cells that are closely associated with drusen. The membrane associated complement inhibitor, complement receptor 1, is also localized in drusen, but it is not detected in RPE cells immunohistochemically. In contrast, a second membrane associated complement inhibitor, membrane cofactor protein, is present in drusen associated RPE cells, as well as in small, spherical substructural elements within drusen. These previously unidentified elements also show strong immunoreactivity for proteolytic fragments of complement component C3 that are characteristically deposited at sites of complement activation. It is proposed that these structures represent residual debris from degenerating RPE cells that are the targets of complement attack. It is likely that RPE cell debris entrapped between the RPE monolayer and Bruch's membrane serves as a chronic inflammatory stimulus and a potential nucleation site for drusen formation. Thus, the process of drusen biogenesis may be envisaged as a secondary manifestation of primary RPE pathology that is exacerbated by consequences of local inflammatory processes.
The long-term relationship between the peripheral nerve trunk and its vascular supply, the vasa nervorum, has not been considered in the context of denervation and regeneration. While the microvessels of peripheral nerve are not thought to influence Wallerian degeneration itself, in this work we explored how vasa nervorum respond to denervation of the nerve trunk. Our hypotheses were that the presence of axons had a significant impact on the vasa nervorum and that the absence of reinnervation might eventually lead to an unfavorable ischemic regenerative microenvironment. We studied rat sciatic nerve trunks for up to 6 months following transection and either prevented regeneration or allowed it to proceed. Vasa nervorum were studied in several ways: (i) measurements of local endoneurial blood flow using microelectrode hydrogen clearance polarography; (ii) measurements of erythrocyte flux (flow) in the extrinsic nerve plexus using laser Doppler flowmetry; (iii) India ink perfusion of microvessels in unfixed nerve; (iv) mRNA expression of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) using reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction. Early after injury, there were rises in endoneurial and extrinsic flow, microvessel numbers, and VEGF mRNA expression. Angiogenesis was apparently confined to the epineurial and perineurial compartments. Later, however, there were substantial declines in flow observed in long-term (6-month) denervated sciatic nerve trunks associated with declines in the caliber of new microvessels. Reinnervated sciatic nerves had restored endoneurial blood flow. The findings confirm important relationships between axon presence and local blood flow. Angiogenesis is a feature of the injured peripheral nerve, but long term denervated nerve trunks have declines of flow despite retaining new microvessels.

5-HT(2) family serotonin receptors, principal sites of action of serotonin in the brain, represent major molecular targets for drugs used in treating a variety of diseases including schizophrenia, depression, anxiety, eating disorders, obsessive-compulsive disorder, chronic pain conditions and obesity. The 5-HT(2) family of receptors has three members: 5-HT(2A), 5-HT(2B) and 5-HT(2C). Therefore, it is likely that subtype-selective compounds will be needed to avoid serious side effects and to enhance therapeutic indices. Unfortunately, recent insights into the structure and function of 5-HT(2A) receptors have revealed that structurally-diverse agonists and antagonists have distinct modes of interacting with 5-HT(2A) receptors, complicating efforts at structure-based drug-design. These distinct binding modes would not have been predicted based on conventional structure-activity relationships or static docking models. Fortunately, these complicated binding modes can be predicted and simulated using molecular dynamics, allowing for the possibility of structure-based drug design. Thus, provided appropriately sophisticated drug design strategies are employed, it is likely that uniquely valuable medications will result which could have great potential for treating a variety of mental and physical illnesses.
Microglia respond to any disturbance in the CNS which poses a threat to physiological homeostasis. Although these responses are secondary, mainly to neuronal alterations, the way the microglial response evolves in many situations promotes further damage to the CNS. The list of clinical conditions in which this situation is a major problem is continuously growing and includes neurodegenerative diseases, stroke, trauma, demyelinating disorders and neuropathic pain. The significance of microglia for the pathogenesis of neurological and neuropsychiatric conditions has led to a rapidly expanding search for therapeutic possibilities to regulate microglial activity. As will be clear from this review, treatments which are currently available appear to offer some positive effects but are still far from satisfactory. A major challenge is to understand the mechanisms that determine whether activated microglia will develop into a cytotoxic or a cytoprotective component.
Ubiquitin-B+1 (UBB+1) is a mutant ubiquitin that accumulates in the neurones of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Here we report on the biochemical and functional differences between ubiquitin and UBB+1 and the effect of the mutant protein on neuronal cells. UBB+1 lacks the capacity to ubiquitinate, and although it is ubiquitinated itself, UBB+1 is not degraded by the ubiquitin-proteasomal system and is quite stable in neuronal cells. Overexpression of UBB+1 in neuroblastoma cells significantly induces nuclear fragmentation and cell death. Our results demonstrate that accumulation of UBB+1 in neurones is detrimental and may contribute to neuronal dysfunction in AD patients.
We found that mutations in small bristles (sbr) affect several tissues during the development of the fruit fly. In sbr embryos, neurons have defects in pathfinding and the body wall muscles have defective morphology. As adults, sbr flies have smaller and thinner bristles with a reduced diameter, suggesting a defective cytoskeleton within. The phenotypes we observe are consistent with defects in cell morphogenesis. We identified DmNXF1, the Drosophila homolog of a mRNA export protein that has been characterized in human (NXF1/TAP) and yeast (Mex67p) as the protein encoded by the small bristles locus. Given that a global decrease in mRNA export in these mutants is likely, the phenotypes we observe suggest that certain tissues are acutely sensitive to lower levels of cytoplasmic mRNA and the resultant decrease in protein synthesis during key stages of cellular morphogenesis.
The N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors are glutamate-regulated ion channels that are critically involved in important physiological and pathological functions of the mammalian central nervous system. We have identified and characterized the gene encoding the human NMDA receptor subunit NR3A (GRIN3A), as well as the gene (GRIN3B) encoding an entirely novel subunit that we named NR3B, as it is most closely related to NR3A (57.4% identity). GRIN3A localizes to chromosome 9q34, in the region 13-34, and consists of nine coding exons. The deduced protein contains 1115 amino acids and shows 92.7% identity to rat NR3A. GRIN3B localizes to chromosome 19p13.3 and contains, as does the mouse NR3B gene (Grin3b), eight coding exons. The deduced proteins of human and mouse NR3B contain 901 and 900 amino acid residues, respectively (81.6% identity). In situ hybridization shows a widespread distribution of Grin3b mRNA in the brain of the adult rat.
The effect of depolarization and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor blockade on insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I), IGF binding protein-2 (IGFBP-2) and IGFBP-4 expression was analysed in vivo. Depolarization was induced in adult rat brains by applying 3 M KCl to the exposed cortex for 10 min. A subgroup of animals also received daily injections of MK-801. Four days after KCl exposure, the brains were analysed by in situ hybridization, immunohistochemistry and TUNEL. A significant upregulation of IGFBP-2 mRNA and protein was detected in astrocytes after KCl exposure This upregulation was reduced by MK-801 treatment. No alterations in IGF-I or IGFBP-4 mRNA levels were noted. We did not detect TUNEL positive cells, morphological signs of necrosis or apoptosis, or neuronal loss in the depolarized zone. Taken together, these findings indicate that upregulation of IGFBP-2 by depolarization is mediated by NMDA receptors, and, as no neuronal damage was detected, astrocytic NMDA receptors may be responsible for this upregulation.
Because homologies between mice and human genomes are well established and hereditary abnormalities are similar in both, mice present a valuable animal model to study hereditary hearing disorders in humans. One of the manifestations of hereditary hearing disorders might be in the structure of cochlear elements, such as the gross morphology of the cochlea. Cochlear dimensions, however, are one factor that determines inner ear mechanics and thus hearing function. Therefore, gross cochlear dimension might be important when different strains of mice are compared regarding their hearing. Although several studies have examined mouse inner ear structures on a sub-cellular level, only few have studied cochlear gross morphology. Moreover, the sparse data available were acquired from fixed and dehydrated tissue. Dehydration, however, produces severe distortion of gel-like cochlear structures such as the tectorial membrane and the basilar membrane hyaline matrix. In this study, the hemicochlea technique, which allows fresh mouse cochlear material to be viewed from a radial perspective, was used to provide an itemized study of the dimensions of gross cochlear structures in four mouse strains (CBA/CaJ, 129/SvEv, 129/CD1 and C57BL/6J). Except for the CBA/CaJ, these strains are known to possess genes for age-related hearing loss. The measurements showed no major differences among the four strains. However, when compared with previous data, the thickness measures of the basilar membrane were up to 10 times larger. Such differences are likely to result from the different techniques used to process the material. The hemicochlea technique eliminates much of the distortion caused by dehydration, which was present in previous experiments.
The history of disease contributes to a better understanding of the growth of ideas in medicine. The colonial period was marked by a rapid increase in the variety of diseases that were known to European practitioners. We have studied the diary of Dr Charles Smith who worked in Bangalore in the nineteenth century. We feel that some of his descriptions tally with later accounts of cysticercosis. He also comments on a wide range of behavioural symptoms, and attempts to correlate neuropathological observations to these. This neuropsychiatric perspective was prominent in the nineteenth century. Infective causes of psychiatric disorders are once again considered important; this account highlights the fact that similar ideas were prevalent in British India, even 150 years ago. In addition, Dr Smith's comments describe the social mileu of 'western' medicine in India in the early colonial period.
A non-radioactive in situ hybridisation method is described for the detection of low intramuscular levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) mRNA at the electron microscope level. Application of high-grade silver-gold intensification of the diaminobenzidine end product of in situ hybridisation revealed that in adult rat muscle the constitutive expression of muscular BDNF is confined to the myofibres; satellite cells, Schwann cells, endothelial cells, fibroblasts or axons do not appear to contribute to BDNF production in normal muscle. Although muscular BDNF is a neurotrophic factor for innervating motoneurons and supposedly released only at the motor endplates, the production of BDNF mRNA appears to occur along the entire length of the myofibres and is not confined to nuclei in the postsynaptic regions.
Courtship behavior in frogs is an ideal model for investigating the relationships among social experience, gonadal steroids, and behavior. Reception of mating calls causes an increase in androgen levels in listening males, and calling, in turn, depends on the presence of androgens. However, previous studies found that androgen replacement does not always restore calling to intact levels, and the relationship between androgens and calling may be context dependent. We examined the influence of androgens on calling behavior in the presence and the absence of social signals in male green treefrogs (Hyla cinerea). We categorized calling during an acoustic stimulus (mating chorus or tones) as evoked and calling in the absence of a stimulus as spontaneous. Intact males received a cholesterol implant, castrated males were castrated and received a cholesterol implant, and T-implanted males were castrated and received a testosterone implant. The androgen levels (mean +/- SE ng/ml of plasma) achieved by the implants were as follows: castrated males, 1.2 +/- 0.2; intact males 21.9 +/- 7.0; T-implanted males, 254.6 +/- 39.5. As in other frogs, calling depends on the presence of androgens, as castration abolished and T replacement maintained calling. However, among intact and T-implanted males, the influence of androgens on calling differed between spontaneous and evoked calling. There was a positive effect of androgen treatment on spontaneous call rate and a positive correlation between spontaneous call rate and androgen levels. The influence of androgen levels on evoked call rate was more complex and interacted with acoustic treatment. Surprisingly, T implants suppressed the chorus-specific increase in calling that is evident in intact males. In addition, in response to the chorus, T-implanted males called less than did intact males, in spite of higher androgen levels. Furthermore, variation in androgens did not explain variation in evoked call rate. These data indicate that androgens influence the motivation to call, but that, when socially stimulated, androgens are necessary but insufficient for calling.
Chronic use of MDMA (3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine), or Ecstasy, is believed to lead to impaired psychological performance, including well-documented decrements in laboratory and field tests of retrospective memory. Less is known about the impact of Ecstasy on aspects of 'everyday' memory, despite obvious concerns about such effects. The three studies reported here focused on the impact of chronic Ecstasy use on prospective memory (PM), associated central executive function and other aspects of day-to-day cognition. In study 1 46 regular Ecstasy users were compared with 46 Ecstasy-free controls using the Prospective Memory Questionnaire (PMQ). Ecstasy users reported significantly more errors in PM (remembering to do something in the future); these findings persisted after controlling for other drug use and the number of strategies used to aid memory. No difference was found between representative subgroups on the Lies Scale of the Eysenck Personality Questionnaire. In study 2 a different group of 30 regular Ecstasy users and 37 Ecstasy-free controls was assessed on the PMQ and on a central executive task comprising verbal fluency measures. The results confirmed the significant impairments in long- and short-term PM and revealed corresponding impairments in verbal fluency. In study 3 15 Ecstasy users, 15 cannabis users and 15 non-drug users were assessed using the Cognitive Failures Questionnaire, which requires participants to provide ratings of the frequency of various day-to-day cognitive slips. The results indicate that the Ecstasy users did not perceive their general cognitive performance to be worse than that of controls. Taken together, these results suggest that Ecstasy users have impaired PM that cannot be explained by an increased propensity to exaggerate cognitive failures. These may be attributable, in part, to central executive deficits that are due to frontal lobe damage associated with Ecstasy use. Copyright 2001 John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd.
Human users of 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA, 'Ecstasy') users may be at risk of developing MDMA-induced neuronal injury. Previously, no methods were available for directly evaluating the neurotoxic effects of MDMA in the living human brain. However, development of in vivo neuroimaging tools has begun to provide insights into the effects of MDMA in the human brain. In this review, contributions of brain imaging studies on the potential neurotoxic effects of MDMA and functional consequences are highlighted. An overview is given of PET, SPECT and MR spectroscopy studies, most of which show evidence of neuronal injury in MDMA users. Different neuroimaging tools are discussed that have investigated potential functional consequences of MDMA-induced 5-HT neurotoxic lesions. Finally, the contribution of brain imaging in future studies is discussed, emphasising the crucial role it will play in our understanding of MDMA's short- and long-term effects in the human brain. Copyright 2001 John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd.




Nonpeptide antigens (including glycolipids of microbial origin) can be presented to T cells by CD1 molecules expressed on monocyte-derived dendritic cells. These HLA unrestricted responses appear to play a role in host immunity against Mycobacterium tuberculosis and other pathogenic bacteria. It is known that vaccination with Mycobacterium bovis bacillus Calmette-Gurin (BCG) has limited efficacy in many clinical settings, although the reasons for its inadequacy remain unclear. Here we have investigated the influence of BCG on the induction of CD1b on human monocytes by granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF), which is believed to be the principal inducer of this antigen-presenting molecule. Although BCG alone led to a slight induction of CD1b expression, this agent reduced markedly the ability of GM-CSF to induce high levels of CD1b that were typically observed in uninfected cells. Inhibition of CD1b expression in BCG-infected monocytes was apparent at both the mRNA transcript and CD1b protein levels. Down-regulation of CD1b expression by BCG was mediated, at least in part, by one or more soluble factors and could not be reversed with high concentrations of GM-CSF or a variety of other cytokines. The present results suggest that BCG could diminish the efficiency of CD1-restricted T-cell responses against nonpeptide mycobacterial antigens by reducing CD1 expression on antigen-presenting cells. These findings have potential implications for understanding the nature of the immune response elicited by BCG in humans and suggest potential strategies that could be important for the development of better vaccines for the prevention of tuberculosis.
We have developed a simple experimental technique which consists of explanting the mouse embryo anterior neural tube--the presumptive brain anlage--onto polycarbonate membranes. The neural epithelium of the explants maintained both its original topology and topography for at least two days in culture. Analysis of cell death in the explants by assaying propidium iodide uptake showed high viability of neuroepithelial cells during the culture period. Both the pattern of gene expression and the initial steps of neural cellular differentiation were well preserved, being similar to those which occur in the normal in vivo situation. We show here two applications of this tissue culture technique which is similar to that which has been previously employed for avian embryo models. The first involves neuroepithelial grafting experiments by heterotopic transplantation of the zona limitans intrathalamica (ZLI) into the mesencephalon and the second consists of fibroblast growth factor (FGF8) protein interaction studies using soaked bead insertions. This in vitro system constitutes a powerful experimental embryological tool which can have other applications including time-lapse imaging and electrophysiology.

The elevation of natural killer cell activity (NKCA) by laughter was not confirmed due to incomplete methodology of previous studies although positive emotion is believed to be favorable for health. To verify NKCA elevation by laughter in a crossover design, we measured NKCA before and after watching films, presenting 75-min comic film and non-emotional control film at different days to the same 21 healthy male subjects. Electromyogram of left major zygomatic muscle was obtained during the films to quantify the magnitude of laughter as an index of emotional expression. As indices of emotional experience, the self-rated pleasantness of the comic film and mood state before and after film were measured using visual analogue scale and Profiles of Mood State (POMS), respectively. The comic film significantly elevated NKCA (26.5-29.4%, p&lt;0.05), whereas the control film did not (27.1-24.8%, not significant). This is the first study to demonstrate NKCA elevation by laughter in a crossover designed study. To examine the contribution of experiential and expressive aspects of laughter to NKCA elevation, correlation of NKCA elevation with the self-rated pleasantness, mood scores before and after comic film and the magnitude of laughter was statistically tested. We found that NKCA elevation was negatively correlated with the scores of negative mood scales of POMS while NKCA elevation had no significant correlation with self-rated pleasantness and the magnitude of laughter. Further group analysis revealed that high scores of depression and anger-hostility suppressed NKCA elevation by laughter. We also found that NKCA before and after comic film had tendency of correlation with self-rated pleasantness of the comic film while NKCA had no correlation with the magnitude of laughter. These findings suggest that NKCA elevation and NKCA before and after comic film seem to be related with the experiential aspects of laughter rather than with the expressive aspects.
Glycine is an agonist at brain N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors and crosses the blood-brain barrier following high-dose oral administration. In a previous study, significant improvements in negative and cognitive symptoms were observed in a group of 21 schizophrenic patients receiving high-dose glycine in addition to antipsychotic treatment. This study evaluated the degree to which symptom improvements might be related to alterations in antipsychotic drug levels in an additional group of 12 subjects. Glycine treatment was associated with an 8-fold increase in serum glycine levels, similar to that observed previously. A significant 34% reduction in negative symptoms was observed during glycine treatment. Serum antipsychotic levels were not significantly altered. Significant clinical effects were observed despite the fact that the majority of subjects were receiving atypical antipsychotics (clozapine or olanzapine). As in earlier studies, improvement persisted following glycine discontinuation.
In a double-blind, placebo-controlled study, we examined the effects of nicotine (2 mg administered by inhalator) on the cognitive performance of male and female non-smoking students and on mood changes following a moderately stressful task. The groups were matched for age and IQ, and did not differ in pre-test measures of anxiety, depression, extroversion and neuroticism or in their weekly alcohol or daily caffeine intake. Nicotine did not change performance in tests of attention and memory. Exposure to moderate stress significantly increased ratings of anxiety, discontent and aggression and nicotine blocked these mood changes in females, but enhanced them in males. This suggests that young women may start regular smoking as a form of stress self-medication, which implies that preventative and smoking cessation programmes would be more successful in women if they addressed issues of stress and anxiety, which may be core factors underlying initiation and maintenance of regular smoking.
Central serotonergic function abnormalities are thought to be associated with the pathogenesis of affective disorder. Reduced serotonergic function, induced by tryptophan depletion, has in several studies transiently reversed the antidepressant effect of SSRIs in depressed patients in remission. Serotonergic pathways are suggested to be of importance in the mechanisms of the action of lithium. The purpose of this study was to investigate whether the stabilizing effect of lithium is dependent on short-term availability of serotonin. Tryptophan depletion was induced in thirty patients with affective disorder (20 bipolar and 10 unipolar), all stabilized on lithium treatment for at least one year. The study was performed using a randomized, double-blind, controlled design. Plasma tryptophan was reduced by 80% in the experimental group and 16% in the control group. However, no clinically relevant mood changes were observed. Transient reduction in serotonergic function does not seem to affect mood in affective-disorder patients stabilized on lithium treatment.
Leptin affects body weight by decreasing food intake, activating the sympathetic nervous system and regulating neuroendocrine function. This type of regulation is a hallmark of hypothalamic control, which typically integrates autonomic, endocrine and behavioral responses. We have performed a series of experiments investigating hypothalamic pathways underlying these actions of leptin. We found that leptin activates neurons that coexpress pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) and cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART) mRNA. These neurons innervate several sites, including sympathetic preganglionic neurons in the spinal cord, neurons in the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus (PVH), and melanin-concentrating hormone and orexin neurons in the lateral hypothalamic area (LHA). Following leptin administration, POMC neurons express both Fos and suppressor of cytokine signalling-3 (SOCS-3) mRNA. In contrast, leptin induced SOCS-3 expression in neuropeptide Y (NPY) neurons but not Fos, suggesting that leptin acts differentially on NPY and POMC cells. We also investigated potential downstream targets of leptin responsive NPY and POMC neurons by assessing the distribution of the melanocortin 4 receptor (MC4-R) mRNA and Y1 and Y5 NPY receptor mRNA in chemically defined neurons. We found dense MC4-R mRNA expression in several sites including the PVH and LHA. Using dual-label in situ hybridization we found that MC4-R mRNA is coexpressed in PVH cells expressing pro-TRH mRNA. We also found Y1 and Y5 NPY receptor mRNA in the PVH in patterns very similar to that of MC4R, suggesting that these receptors may be coexpressed on at least some PVH neurons. These results provide a neuroanatomic framework explaining the endocrine, autonomic and behavioral effects of leptin.
An anatomically distributed model of energy balance control contrasts with the widely held hypothalamic center model. The distributionist model is recommended by the observations that the caudal brainstem contains critical interoceptive, integrative and neurochemical mediating functions. A prominent example of interoceptive function is sensitivity to the adipose tissue-derived hormone, leptin. To complement the well established focus on hypothalamic leptin receptors (Ob-Rb), we describe an extensive distribution of Ob-Rb in the brainstem. These receptors, moreover, are functionally relevant given the intake suppressive effects of fourth-intracerebroventricular (i.c.v) and brainstem intraparenchymal (in dorsal vagal complex) delivery. A wide variety of intake relevant peptides receptors are found in hypothalamus, but these receptors are also widely distributed in the caudal brainstem. As an example of the functional relevance of these neurochemical mediators, we describe ingestive effects of ligands for melanocortin 3/4 and corticotrophin-releasing hormone receptors obtained with brainstem ventricular and parenchymal (dorsal vagal complex and parabrachial nucleus) delivery. It is clear that responses obtained from hypothalamic treatments can arise independently from stimulation of caudal brainstem receptors. We have used the chronic decerebrate preparation to ask whether the brainstem contains integrative substrates sufficient to mediate behavioral responses to variations in physiological state. The experiments reveal that the brainstem is indeed sufficient for the integration of taste and gastrointestinal signals that co-determine the size of meals in the short term. Decerebrate rats, however, do not respond to food deprivation or to reductions in the number of daily feeding opportunities. These results suggest that the brainstem in neural isolation from forebrain influence is not sufficient for ingestive response to systemic/metabolic signals that affect intake over the long term. The relative contribution of brainstem and forebrain substrates to long-term intake and body weight control in the neurologically intact animal, remains unclear. The data reviewed support a distributed anatomical model of energy balance and recommend increased attention to specific responses (behavioral, autonomic and endocrine) that are mediated by local (brainstem or forebrain) interoceptive and integrative processes, and those requiring bi-directional interactions.
The Stimulus-Preceding Negativity (SPN), a slow cortical potential, has been studied in relation to anticipatory attention. A review of the literature suggests that most instances of SPN are observed in anticipation of motivational stimuli, such as aversive stimuli and stimuli that provide Knowledge of Results. In the present study, SPN was recorded in 12 subjects in a threat-of-shock experiment. This manipulation induced fear, as shown by subjective ratings and potentiation of the eyeblink startle. The fear-induced SPN showed a frontocentral maximum and coarse source analysis suggested that it was generated in midline frontal areas, possibly by the anterior cingulate cortex. It is concluded that the fear-induced SPN is a manifestation of affective anticipation. Possible thalamocortical and amygdalocortical contributions to its generation are discussed.

This study investigated the performance of boys with psychopathic tendencies and comparison boys, aged 9 to 17 years, on two tasks believed to be sensitive to amygdala and orbitofrontal cortex functioning. Fifty-one boys were divided into two groups according to the Psychopathy Screening Device (PSD, P. J. Frick &amp; R. D. Hare, in press) and presented with two tasks. The tasks were the gambling task (A. Bechara, A. R. Damasio, H. Damasio, &amp; S. W. Anderson, 1994) and the Intradimensional/Extradimensional (ID/ED) shift task (R. Dias, T. W. Robbins, &amp; A. C. Roberts, 1996). The boys with psychopathic tendencies showed impaired performance on the gambling task. However, there were no group differences on the ID/ED task either for response reversal or extradimensional set shifting. The implications of these results for models of psychopathy are discussed.
The processing of emotional expressions is fundamental for normal socialisation and interaction. Reduced responsiveness to the expressions of sadness and fear has been implicated in the development of psychopathy (R. J. R. Blair, 1995). The current study investigates the sensitivity of children with psychopathic tendencies to facial expressions. Children with psychopathic tendencies and a comparison group, as defined by the Psychopathy Screening Device (PSD; P. J. Frick &amp; R. D. Hare, in press), were presented with a cinematic display of a standardised set of facial expressions that depicted sadness, happiness, anger, disgust, fear, and surprise. Participants observed as these facial expressions slowly evolved through 20 successive frames of increasing intensity. The children with psychopathic tendencies presented with selective impairments; they needed significantly more stages before they could successfully recognise the sad expressions and even when the fearful expressions were at full intensity were significantly more likely to mistake them for another expression. These results are interpreted with reference to an amygdala and empathy impairment explanation of psychopathy.
A community cohort of 1270 non-demented 75+ years old persons was followed to evaluate the influence of blood pressure on incidence of dementia. Two hundred and eighteen dementia cases were detected during an average of three years of follow-up. Subjects with baseline systolic pressure &gt;/= 180 mm Hg had an age- and gender-adjusted relative risk (RR) of 1.6 (95% to persons with systolic pressure of 141-160 mm Hg. This association persisted, although not statistically significant, when education, vascular diseases, and antihypertensive drug use were entered in the model (RR = 1.4; 95% systolic pressure were not related to dementia incidence. However, individuals with a decrease of 5--19 mm Hg and &gt;/= 20 mm Hg in systolic pressure from baseline to follow-up had a RR of 1.8 (95% 2.6) and 2.5 (95% also found in subjects with diastolic pressure reduction. In conclusion, our findings support an association between high systolic pressure and increased risk of dementia, whereas blood pressure reduction may be secondary to the dementia process itself.
Recent results from the author's efforts and others have indicated approaches that may eventually lead to new therapeutic strategies for combating neurodegenerative effects associated with dementia and Alzheimer's disease (AD). These strategies include unraveling mechanisms that decrease senile plaque accumulation and delay or slow the neurodegenerative progression associated with AD. Recent work addresses whether normally functioning inhibitory brain circuitry can protect and detour neurodegeneration. The aim of these research efforts is that one or a combination of these approaches will develop into an applied therapy that will enhance brain protection mechanisms and add to quality of life for patients with AD.
Cisplatin is a potent chemotherapeutic agent that is used to treat many human malignancies. Unfortunately, in addition to side effects such as ototoxicity, anaphylaxis, and bone marrow suppression, a significant percentage of patients receiving cisplatin develop severe nephrotoxicity. Mitochondrial dysfunction that is mediated via the generation of reactive oxygen species has been implicated in the pathogenesis of cisplatin-induced renal injury. To address the mechanism, it was hypothesized that overexpression of antioxidant enzymes, such as mitochondria-localized manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) or mitochondria-targeted catalase (mito-Cat), would be cytoprotective in cisplatin-induced cell injury. To this end, human MnSOD or a mito-Cat vector were stably transfected into human embryonic kidney 293 cells. Cells that overexpressed MnSOD exhibited significantly less cell rounding and detachment compared with both mito-Cat and vector controls after exposure to 20 microM cisplatin. Cell injury as assessed by DNA fragmentation and annexin V binding assays was significantly decreased in the cells that overexpressed MnSOD compared with vector alone and mito-Cat. In addition, elevated levels of MnSOD were strongly associated with increased clonogenic potential after cisplatin challenge. Thus, overexpression of MnSOD, and not catalase, protects against cisplatin-induced renal epithelial cell injury. These results demonstrate the importance of reactive oxygen species in the mechanism that underlies cisplatin-induced renal injury and specifically implicate the superoxide radical, and not hydrogen peroxide, as the mediator.
The behavioral effects of a variety of advanced candidate anticonvulsants for organophosphate-induced seizures were evaluated under two rodent 'counting' models. Rats pressed the left of two levers a number of times (a 'run') before pressing the right lever. The targeted performance was a run of 12. The training contingency was a targeted percentile schedule, which provided food if the current run was closer to 12 than two-thirds of the most recent runs. Baseline performance was well controlled by the target, with mean run lengths slightly less than 12. Once this performance was acquired, half the subjects were switched to a procedure providing food following runs of different lengths with a probability yoked to previous percentile schedule performance. The two procedures generate comparable baseline performances, but behavioral disruptions generate reinforcement loss only under the yoked procedure. Atropine, scopolamine, azaprophen, aprophen, trihexyphenidyl, procyclidine, benactyzine, biperiden and diazepam were tested. All produced dose-related decreases in overall run length and response rate. Responding was disrupted more readily under the yoked procedure than under the percentile procedure. Only atropine affected responding at doses below those effective against soman-induced seizures. Of the present candidates, trihexyphenidyl, procyclidine, benactyzine and biperiden appear most promising for further development.
Neurotrophin (NT)-3 is expressed in the neuronal target tissue of the developing rat cochlea and has been shown to promote the survival and neurite outgrowth of spiral ganglion (SG) neurons, suggesting a role for this protein during the innervation of the organ of Corti. In other neurons, NT-3 can mediate neuritogenesis and survival via a number of intracellular signal pathways. To date, the intracellular transduction pathways involved in the mediation of NT-3 effects have not been investigated in SG neurons. To determine whether the activities of NT-3 on SG neurons are dependent on the activation of mitogen-activated protein kinase kinases (MEK)/extracellular-signal-regulated kinases (ERK), Ras, and/or p38, SG explants from postnatal-day 4 rats were cultured with NT-3 and increasing concentrations of the MEK inhibitor U0126, the Ras farnesyl-transferase inhibitor (FTI)-277, and the p38 inhibitor SB203580. After fixation and immunocytochemical labeling, neurite growth was evaluated. A dose-dependent decrease of the effects of NT-3 on length and number of processes was observed in the U0126- and FTI-277-treated SG neurons. In contrast, SB203580 had no significant effect on NT-3-mediated stimulation of neurite growth, in terms of either number or length. The results suggest that NT-3 effects on SG neurons are mediated primarily by the Ras/MEK/ERK signaling pathway.
Autism is a pervasive developmental disorder of unknown etiology. It is likely caused by mutations in one or more genes. One approach to understanding the molecular changes that occur in autism is to measure gene expression in post-mortem brain samples from individuals diagnosed with autism. This may be accomplished with techniques such as cDNA microarrays or subtractive hybridization. In general, gene expression is regulated as a function of body region, developmental time, and physiological state. A premise of the approaches we describe is that gene expression is regulated in cells from autistic individuals as a consequence of the disease process. It may be useful to detect such changes in order to identify selective biological markers for autism. Additionally, the abnormal regulation of gene expression may reveal cellular pathways that have been disrupted, suggesting strategies for therapeutic intervention.
Autism is a severe neurodevelopmental disorder with potential genetic and environmental causes. Cerebellar pathology including Purkinje cell atrophy has been demonstrated previously. We hypothesized that cell migration and apoptotic mechanisms may account for observed Purkinje cell abnormalities. Reelin is an important secretory glycoprotein responsible for normal layering of the brain. Bcl-2 is a regulatory protein responsible for control of programmed cell death in the brain. Autistic and normal control cerebellar corteces matched for age, sex, and post-mortem interval (PMI) were prepared for SDS-gel electrophoresis and Western blotting using specific anti-Reelin and anti-Bcl-2 antibodies. Quantification of Reelin bands showed 43%, 44%, and 44% reductions in autistic cerebellum (mean optical density +/- SD per 30 microg protein 4.05 +/- 4.0, 1.98 +/- 2.0, 13.88 +/- 11.9 for 410 kDa, 330 kDa, and 180 kDa bands, respectively; N = 5) compared with controls (mean optical density +/- SD per 30 microg protein, 7.1 +/- 1.6, 3.5 +/- 1.0, 24.7 +/- 5.0; N = 8, p &lt; 0.0402 for 180 kDa band). Quantification of Bcl-2 levels showed a 34% to 51% reduction in autistic cerebellum (M +/- SD per 75 microg protein 0.29 +/- 0.08; N = 5) compared with controls (M +/- SD per 75 microg protein 0.59 +/- 0.31; N = 8, p &lt; 0.0451). Measurement of beta-actin (M +/- SD for controls 7.3 +/- 2.9; for autistics 6.77 +/- 0.66) in the same homogenates did not differ significantly between groups. These results demonstrate for the first time that dysregulation of Reelin and Bcl-2 may be responsible for some of the brain structural and behavioral abnormalities observed in autism.
Amyloid beta peptide (Abeta), the pathogenic agent of Alzheimer's disease (AD), is a physiological metabolite constantly anabolized and catabolized in the brain. We previously demonstrated that neprilysin is the major Abeta-degrading enzyme in vivo. To investigate whether or not manipulation of neprilysin activity in the brain would be an effective strategy for regulating Abeta levels, we expressed neprilysin in primary cortical neurons using a Sindbis viral vector and examined the effect on Abeta metabolism. The corresponding recombinant protein, expressed in the cell bodies and processes, exhibited thiorphan-sensitive endopeptidase activity, whereas a mutant neprilysin with an amino acid substitution in the active site did not show any such activity. Expression of the wild-type neprilysin, but not the mutant, led to significant decreases in both the Abeta40 and 42 levels in the culture media in a dose-dependent manner. Moreover, neprilysin expression also resulted in reducing cell-associated Abeta, which could be more neurotoxic than extracellular Abeta. These results indicate that the manipulation of neprilysin activity in neurons, the major source of Abeta in the brain, would be a relevant strategy for controlling the Abeta levels and thus the Abeta-associated pathology in brain tissues.
The mitochondrial permeability transition event is implicated in the activation phase of apoptosis and necrosis, and is therefore postulated to play a role in many disease states. Mitochondrial permeability transition is therefore of increasing pharmaceutical interest. Drug discovery requires the rapid screening of compound libraries to identify functionally active ligands. We report the development of two fluorescence-based approaches for screening compound libraries for effects on mitochondrial function. These assays use the fluorometric imaging plate reader in 96-well format, and two commercially available dyes: JC-1 and calcein-AM. We show here that a JC-1 assay proved highly amenable to HTS implementation. By combining this with a calcein-based assay, these approaches gave complementary information: JC-1 facilitates the discovery of modulators of mitochondrial polarization from a library of approximately 100,000 compounds screened at 8 microM, and the calcein assay identifies permeability transition pore-specific inhibitors.
In response to increased shear stress, vascular endothelial cells release adenosine triphosphate (ATP) by an unknown mechanism. We have investigated this mechanism using different approaches. First, we discovered that quinacrine, used to locate intracellular stores of ATP bound to peptides, displayed a granular fluorescence, typical of vesicular storage. Second, we found that two inhibitors of vesicular transport (monensin and N-ethylmaleimide) produced a highly significant reduction in the release of ATP from vascular endothelial cells in response to increased shear stress. Preliminary experiments using inhibitors of the cystic fibrosis transmembrane regulator, the sulfonylurea receptor, and the multidrug resistance protein showed no involvement of these ATP-binding cassette transporter proteins (previously characterized in endothelial cells) in the mechanism of release of ATP. We suggest, therefore, that the release of ATP from vascular endothelial cells, like that of nerve cells, is probably by vesicular exocytosis.

Astrocytes are intimately involved in both glutamate and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) synthesis, and ischemia-induced disruption of normal neuroastrocytic interactions may have important implications for neuronal survival. The effects of middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) on neuronal and astrocytic intermediary metabolism were studied in rats 30, 60, 120, and 240 minutes after MCAO using in vivo injection of [1-13C]glucose and [1,2- 13C]acetate combined with ex vivo 13C magnetic resonance spectroscopy and high-performance liquid chromatography analysis of the ischemic core (lateral caudoputamen and lower parietal cortex) and penumbra (upper frontoparietal cortex). In the ischemic core, both neuronal and astrocytic metabolism were impaired from 30 minutes MCAO. There was a continuous loss of glutamate from glutamatergic neurons that was not replaced as neuronal glucose metabolism and use of astrocytic precursors gradually declined. In GABAergic neurons astrocytic precursors were not used in GABA synthesis at any time after MCAO, and neuronal glucose metabolism and GABA-shunt activity declined with time. No flux through the tricarboxylic acid cycle was found in GABAergic neurons at 240 minutes MCAO, indicating neuronal death. In the penumbra, the neurotransmitter pool of glutamate coming from astrocytic glutamine was preserved while neuronal metabolism progressively declined, implying that glutamine contributed significantly to glutamate excitotoxicity. In GABAergic neurons, astrocytic precursors were used to a limited extent during the initial 120 minutes, and tricarboxylic acid cycle activity was continued for 240 minutes. The present study showed the paradoxical role that astrocytes play in neuronal survival in ischemia, and changes in the use of astrocytic precursors appeared to contribute significantly to neuronal death, albeit through different mechanisms in glutamatergic and GABAergic neurons.
Oxidative stress generated during stroke is a critical event leading to blood-brain barrier (BBB) disruption with secondary vasogenic edema and hemorrhagic transformation of infarcted brain tissue, restricting the benefit of thrombolytic reperfusion. In this study, the authors demonstrate that ischemia-reperfusion-induced BBB disruption in mice deficient in copper/zinc-superoxide dismutase (SOD1) was reduced by 88% ( P &lt; 0.0001) and 73% ( P &lt; 0.01), respectively, after 3 and 7 hours of reperfusion occurring after 1 hour of ischemia by the inhibition of matrix metalloproteinases. Accordingly, the authors show that local metalloproteinase-generated proteolytic imbalance is more intense in ischemic regions of SOD1 mice than in wild-type litter mates. Moreover, active in situ proteolysis is, for the first time, demonstrated in ischemic leaking capillaries that produce reactive oxygen species. By showing that oxidative stress mediates BBB disruption through metalloproteinase activation in experimental ischemic stroke, this study provides a new target for future therapeutic strategies to prevent BBB disruption and potentially reperfusion-triggered intracerebral hemorrhage.
Organ-specific autoimmune diseases have been postulated to be the result of T cell response against organ-specific self-peptides bound to MHC molecules. Contrary to this paradigm, we report here that transgenic mice lacking MHC class I expression and expressing an MHC class II I-A(b) molecule that presents only a single peptide (E alpha 52-68) spontaneously develops peripheral nervous system-specific autoimmune disease with many of the histopathological features found in experimental allergic neuritis. Reciprocal bone marrow chimeras produced using susceptible and resistant lines revealed that bone marrow-derived cells determined disease susceptibility. While the expression of the I-A(b)-E alpha 52-68 complex in the periphery was readily detectable in both lines, its expression on thymic dendritic cells responsible for tolerance induction was markedly lower in the susceptible line than in the resistant line. Consistent with this, CD4(+) T cells that can be activated by the I-A(b)-E alpha 52-68 complex were found in the susceptible line, but not in the resistant line. Such CD4(+) T cells conferred the disease to the resistant line by adoptive transfer, and administration of Ab specific for the I-A(b)-E alpha 52-68 complex inhibited disease manifestation in the susceptible line. These results indicate that disease development involves systemic T cell reactivity to I-A(b)-E alpha 52-68 complex, probably caused by incomplete negative thymocyte selection.

The objective of this paper was to study prospectively the course of clinically relevant thyroid dysfunction in a cohort of patients on long-term lithium treatment. Patients (N = 150) who had undergone a cross-sectional evaluation of their thyroid function in 1989, when they were at different stages of lithium treatment, were followed up for the presence of thyroid autoimmunity, hypothyroidism, and goiter during a further period of lithium exposure of up to ten years. The following annual rates of newly developed thyroid dysfunction were observed: autoimmunnity (1.4%), subclinical hypothyroidism (1.7%), and goiter (2.1%). Subjects with thyroid autoimmunity had a higher chance of requiring substitution treatment with levothyroxine for subclinical hypothyroidism compared with subjects with no evidence of thyroid autoimmunity (13/32 = 41% versus 7/118 = 6%). Subjects (N = 15) who were prescribed carbamazepine in addition to lithium showed a significant decrease of TSH concentrations. In patients already being treated with lithium for several years, the overall incidence of hypothyroidism, goiter, and thyroid autoimmunity were comparable with those reported for the general population. However, lithium exposure may represent an additional risk factor for hypothyroidism in women and/or in the presence of thyroid autoimmunity.
When not satiated prior to training, there were no differences between foragers and nurse honey bees in the acquisition of an appetitively based conditioned response in an olfactory associative learning assay, but when satiated foragers showed faster acquisition than did nurses. Satiation-related differences between foragers and nurses were more a function of behavioral state than age, because satiated precocious foragers also showed faster acquisition rates than did satiated nurse bees, despite their similar ages. Tests of sucrose responsiveness and retention of conditioned responses indicate that the observed performance differences between nurses and foragers were more likely due to differential sensitivity of sensory and motor processes related to satiation rather than differences in cognitive ability.
The functional morphology of venom injection in Crotalus atrox was explored using high-speed digital videography combined with direct recording of venom flow using perivascular flow probes. Although venom flow was variable, in most strikes the onset of venom flow was coincidental with fang penetration, and retrograde flow (venom suction) was observed prior to fang withdrawal. The duration of venom flow was consistently less than the duration of fang penetration. The occurrence of retrograde flow, 'dry bites' (which accounted for 35 % of the strikes) and unilateral strikes all support a hypothesis for venom pooling in the distal portion of the venom-delivery system. No significant difference in temporal or volumetric aspects of venom flow were found between defensive strikes directed at small and large rodents. With the species and size of target held constant, the duration of venom flow, maximum venom flow rate and total venom volume were all significantly lower in predatory than in defensive strikes.
In spiny lobsters and other decapod crustaceans, odorant-mediated searching behavior patterns are driven primarily by chemosensory neurons in the antennules. Two groups of antennular chemosensory neurons can be distinguished on the basis of the sensilla that they innervate and their central projections: those that innervate the aesthetasc sensilla on the lateral flagella and project into the glomerularly organized olfactory lobes, and those that innervate other (i.e. non-aesthetasc) sensilla on both lateral and medial flagella and project into the stratified and non-glomerularly organized lateral antennular neuropils. By ablating different groups of antennular sensory neurons or sensilla, we examined the role of aesthetasc and non-aesthetasc chemosensory neurons in regulating local searching behavior of Caribbean spiny lobsters, Panulirus argus, for food (squid) in a low-flow environment. The results show that odorant-mediated activation of searching and localization of food under these conditions requires only a subset of functional antennular chemosensory neurons, since neither aesthetasc chemosensory neurons nor non-aesthetasc chemosensory neurons are by themselves necessary for these types of behavior. However, ablation of aesthetasc chemosensory neurons together with subsets of non-aesthetasc chemosensory neurons from either the medial or lateral flagella impairs the ability of lobsters to locate the food. This reveals a large degree of functional redundancy but also some complementary functions between aesthetasc and non-aesthetasc chemosensory neurons, and hence between these dual antennular chemosensory pathways, in odorant-mediated searching behavior of lobsters under these conditions.
The electrophysiological basis of chemical communication in the specialized olfactory division of the vomeronasal (VN) organ is poorly understood. In total, 198 patch-clamp recordings were made from 42 animals (Sternotherus odoratus, the stinkpot/musk turtle) to study the electrically and chemically activated properties of VN neurons. The introduction of tetramethylrhodamine-conjugated dextran into the VN orifice permitted good visualization of the vomeronasal neural epithelium prior to dissociating it into single neurons. Basic electrical properties of the neurons were measured (resting potential, -54.5 +/- 2.7 mV, N=11; input resistance, 6.7 +/- 1.4 G Omega, N=25; capacitance, 4.2 +/- 0.3 pF, N=22; means +/- S.E.M.). The voltage-gated K(+) current inactivation rate was significantly slower in VN neurons from males than in those from females, and K(+) currents in males were less sensitive (greater K(i)) to tetraethylammonium. Vomeronasal neurons were held at a holding potential of -60 mV and tested for their response to five natural chemicals, female urine, male urine, female musk, male musk and catfish extract. Of the 90 VN neurons tested, 33 (34 %) responded to at least one of the five compounds. The peak amplitude of chemically evoked currents ranged from 4 to 180 pA, with two-thirds of responses less than 25 pA. Urine-evoked currents were of either polarity, whereas musk and catfish extract always elicited only inward currents. Urine applied to neurons harvested from female animals evoked currents that were 2-3 times larger than those elicited from male neurons. Musk-evoked inward currents were three times the magnitude of urine- or catfish-extract-evoked inward currents. The calculated breadth of responsiveness for neurons presented with this array of five chemicals indicated that the mean response spectrum of the VN neurons is narrow (H metric 0.11). This patch-clamp study indicates that VN neurons exhibit sexual dimorphism in function and specificity in response to complex natural chemicals.iol
The ability to recall information about the past is thought to emerge in the 2nd half of the 1st year of life. Although there is evidence from both cognitive neuroscience and behavioral psychology to support this hypothesis, there is little longitudinal evidence with which the question can be addressed. Infants' memory abilities were tested between the ages of 9 and 16 months using elicited and deferred imitation. Infants' memory for events was tested after delays ranging from 1 to 6 months. The results suggest that at 9 months of age, infants are able to store and retrieve representations over delays of as many as 4 weeks but not over long delays. In contrast, 10-month-olds have at their disposal a system that allows encoding and retrieval of event representations over delays of up to 6 months. These results support the idea that the system that underlies long-term ordered recall emerges near the end of the 1st year of life.
Five experiments demonstrated that adults can identify certain novel views of 3-dimensional model objects on the basis of knowledge of a single perspective. Geometrically irregular contour (wire) and surface (clay) objects and geometrically regular surface (pipe) objects were accurately recognized when rotated 180 degrees about the vertical (y) axis. However, recognition accuracy was poor for all types of objects when rotated around the y-axis by 90 degrees. Likewise, more subtle rotations in depth (i.e., 30 degrees and 60 degrees) induced decreases in recognition of both contour and surface objects. These results suggest that accurate recognition of objects rotated in depth by 180 degrees may be achieved through use of information in objects' 2-dimensional bounding contours, the shapes of which remain invariant over flips in depth. Consistent with this interpretation, a final study showed that even slight rotations away from 180 degrees cause precipitous drops in recognition accuracy.
J. Pratt, T. M. Spalek, and F. Bradshaw (1999) recently proposed that attentional momentum is the mechanism underlying the inhibition of return (IOR) effect. They suggested that momentum associated with an attentional movement away from a peripherally cued location and toward an uncued opposite location is essential and fundamental to the finding of an IOR effect. Although it is clear from the present study and from a reanalysis of data from Pratt et al. that response time can be facilitated at an uncued opposite location, this putative effect of attentional momentum is neither robust nor reliable. First, it occurs for only a minority of participants. Second, it occurs in only a subset of the cued display positions. And finally, it is uncorrelated with the occurrence of IOR. Together the data indicate that the attentional momentum hypothesis is an overgeneralization and that it does not underlie the robust and reliable IOR effect.
This review highlights the new &quot;immunological identity&quot; of neutrophils within the cytokine network and their role in biology of diseases, particularly in tumor biology. The latest preclinical evidence of their involvement in anti-cancer immunotherapeutic and prophylactic strategies will be discussed with particular reference to the real possibilities of transferring experimental results to a clinical setting.
Johannes Mller was the founder of the first school of physiology in Germany. His anatomical, morphological and physiological research as well as his epistemological view of scientific medicine opened the way to a deeper understanding of the structure and the function of the organism. With important discoveries like the law of sense energy, the reflex movement and the definition of different organic stimuli, he enriched the knowledge of neuroanatomy, neurophysiology and sensory physiology and smoothed the way to an experimental physiology. All his famous students like Hermann von Helmholtz, Emil Du Bois-Reymond, Ernst Brcke, Jakob Henle, Robert Remak, Rudolf Virchow and Ernst Haeckel solved many crucial research problems, which Mller identified and pointed out to them as open questions, due to the insufficient methods of investigation. Mller's research method, epistemological view of biological sciences, and his open-minded personal style encouraged the development of new methods adapted to particular problems.

The sympathetic blocks are useful in many ways for relief of chronic pain. The sympathetic block can be caused at pre- and paravertebral sympathetic ganglia eg, stellate ganglia, coeliac plexus and lumbar sympathetic ganglia. Indications for sympathetic blockade are: Complex regional pain syndrome, phantom limb pain, central pain, acute pancreatitis, pancreatic cancer and cancer pain from upper abdominal viscera. Stellate ganglion blockade is required for the diagnosis, prognosis and therapy for painful and other conditions associated with sympathetic dysfunctions of head, neck and upper extremity. Coeliac plexus block is indicated in pain due to intra-abdominal cancer, stemming from organs innervated by coeliac plexus. Lumbar sympathetic block is indicated for diagnosis, prognosis and therapy for painful and other conditions associated with sympathetic dysfunctions like complex regional pain syndrome I and II, herpes zoster, amputation stump pain and inoperable peripheral vascular vasospastic diseases of the lower limb. Indications for superior hypogastric block are the prognostic and therapeutic purposes of cancer pelvic organs--uterus, cervix, bladder, prostate, urethra, testes and ovaries.
African Americans have been underrepresented in clinical trials. However, African-American physician attitudes about clinical trials may influence patient recruitment. We identified the perceptions of African-American physician members of the Cook County Physicians Association (CCPA) about clinical trials in the Chicago Metropolitan area using a self-administered questionnaire. An 18-item, 2-page survey that included information about physician demographics, practice type, and specialty, and perceptions regarding clinical research was sent to each of the 609 active or inactive members of the CCPA, a predominantly African-American physician organization. Each survey was accompanied by a letter of explanation and a self-addressed, return envelope. Data from the surveys were stored and analyzed in a database. A total of 166 members (27%) completed the survey. Fifty percent of the respondents were men and 50% were women. The mean age of the group was 45 years, and almost half had participated previously as a local investigator, or assisted on a clinical or laboratory study. Factors identified by the members as possibly being disadvantages to participation in a clinical trial, or factors influencing African-American recruitment included: (a) lack of patient awareness of clinical trials (93%); (b) patient mistrust of the medical community (92%); (c) additional administrative tasks in conjunction with a patient enrolled in a study (56%); (d) blind drug assignment (41.6%). African-American physicians perceive inherent disadvantages from participation in clinical trials and have pinpointed factors that may influence patient recruitment. These factors may be addressed by focused physician and community education.
Neurotrophic factors that support neuronal survival are implicated in axonal regeneration after injury. Specifically, a strong role for BDNF in motor axonal regeneration has been suggested based on its pattern of expression after injury, as well as the expression of its receptors, trkB and p75. Despite considerable in vitro evidence, which demonstrate specific and distinct physiological responses elicited following trkB and p75 activation, relatively little is known about the function of these receptors in vivo. To investigate the roles of the trkB and p75 receptors in motor axonal regeneration, we have used a tibial (TIB)- common peroneal (CP) cross suture paradigm in p75 homozygous (-/-) knockout mice, trkB heterozygous (+/-) knockout mice, as well as in their wild-type controls. Contralateral intact TIB motoneurons, and axotomized TIB motoneurons that regenerated their axons 10 mm into the CP distal nerve stump were identified by fluorescent retrograde tracers and counted in the T11-L1 spinal segments. Regeneration was evaluated 2, 3, 4, 6, and 8 weeks after nerve repair. Compared to wild-type animals, there are significantly fewer intact TIB motoneurons in p75 (-/-), but not trkB (+/-) mice. The number of motoneurons that regenerated their axons was significantly increased in the p75 (-/-) knockout mice, but significantly attenuated in the trkB (+/-) mice compared to wild-type controls. These results suggest that p75 is important for motoneuronal survival during development, but p75 expression after injury serves to inhibit motor axonal regeneration. In addition, full expression of trkB is critical for complete axonal regeneration to proceed.
csp, a gene encoding a protein with high sequence identity to trypsinlike serine protease and CUB domains, was identified from a cDNA library from the olfactory organ (antennular lateral flagellum) of the spiny lobster Panulirus argus. The full-length cDNA sequence of csp is 1801 bp, encoding a protein of 50.25 kD, with three domains: signal peptide, trypsinlike serine protease, and CUB (named for a class of compounds including Complement subcomponents Clr/Cls, Uegf, and Bone morphogenic protein-1). RT-PCR, Northern blots, and immunoblots showed that csp is predominantly expressed in the lateral flagellum and eyestalk. Immunocytochemistry showed that Csp is present in olfactory (aesthetasc) sensilla around auxiliary cells (glia that surround the inner dendrites of olfactory receptor neurons, ORNs) and ORN outer dendrites. We propose that Csp is expressed and secreted by auxiliary cells, associates with ORN cell membranes or extracellular matrix via the CUB domain, and has trypsinlike activity. In the eyestalk, Csp is associated with cells surrounding axons between neuropils of the eyestalk ganglia. Possible functions in the olfactory organ and eyestalk are discussed. To our knowledge, this is the first report from any olfactory system of a gene encoding a protein with serine protease and CUB domains.
Mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative damage may play a role in the pathogenesis of Huntington's disease (HD). We examined concentrations of 8-hydroxy-2-deoxyguanosine (OH(8)dG), a well-established marker of oxidative damage to DNA, in a transgenic mouse model of HD (R6/2). Increased concentrations of OH(8)dG were found in the urine, plasma and striatal microdialysates of the HD mice. Increased concentrations were also observed in isolated brain DNA at 12 and 14 weeks of age. Immunocytochemistry showed increased OH(8)dG staining in late stages of the illness. These results suggest that oxidative damage may play a role in the pathogenesis of neuronal degeneration in the R6/2 transgenic mouse model of HD.
The exact molecular mechanism of ischemic neuronal death still remains unclear from rodents to primates. A number of studies using lower species animals have suggested implication of apoptosis cascade, while using monkeys the authors recently claimed necrosis cascade by calpain-induced leakage of lysosomal cathepsins (calpain-cathepsin hypothesis). This paper is to study implications of apoptotic versus necrotic cascades for the development of hippocampal CA1 neuronal death in the primate brain undergoing complete global ischemia. Here, we focused on two terminal cell death effectors; caspase-activated DNase (CAD) and lysosomal enzyme DNase II, in the monkey CA1 sector undergoing 18 min ischemia. The expressions of their mRNA and proteins, and the subcellular localizations as well as ultrastructure and specific DNA gel electrophoresis were examined. Expression of CAD was much less in the normal brain, compared with the lymph node or heart tissues. On day 1 after ischemia, however, CAD mRNA and protein were significantly increased in the CA1 sector, and then CAD protein immunohistochemically showed a translocation from the perikarya into the nucleus. Activated DNase II protein was significantly increased on days 2 and 3 after ischemia, and also showed a similar translocation indicating lysosomal leakage. Although the post-ischemic CA1 neurons showed positive terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP-biotin nick-end labeling (TUNEL) staining on days 3-5, they showed eosinophilic coagulation necrosis on light microscopy, and frank membrane disruption and mild chromatin condensation on electron microscopy. Furthermore, DNA smear pattern typical for necrosis was observed instead of DNA laddering. These data altogether suggest that the post-ischemic CA1 neuronal death of the monkey occurs not by apoptosis but by necrosis with participations of lysosomal enzymes DNase II and cathepsins as well as CAD. The interactions between apoptotic (caspase-3 and CAD) and necrotic (calpain, cathepsin and DNase II) cascades should be studied further.
Presenilin 2 (PS2) is a polytopic membrane protein that is mutated in some cases of familial Alzheimer's disease (AD). The normal functions of PS2 and its pathogenic role in AD remain unclear. We investigated the biological role of this protein in neurons, using adenovirus-mediated transduction of the PS2 gene into rat primary cortical neurons. Immunocytochemical analyses demonstrated increased PS2 immunoreactivity in most neurons infected with recombinant adenoviruses expressing PS2. Neurons infected with wild-type or mutant (N141I) PS2-expressing adenoviruses showed a significant increase in basal cell death, compared with those infected with control beta-galactosidase-expressing adenovirus. Moreover, PS2 overexpression markedly increased neuronal susceptibility to staurosporine-induced apoptosis. Mutant PS2 was more effective in enhancing apoptosis than its wild-type counterpart. Staurosporine-induced death was significantly inhibited by a specific caspase 3 inhibitor. Western analyses revealed that Bcl-2 protein expression was specifically down-regulated in neurons overexpressing PS2, which temporally corresponded to the accumulation of C- and N-terminal fragments of PS2. Additionally, expression of mutant, but not wild-type PS2, increased the production of beta-amyloid protein (Abeta) 42. These data collectively suggest that the pro-apoptotic effect of PS2 is mediated by down-regulation of Bcl-2. PS2 mutations may increase the susceptibility of neurons to apoptotic stimuli by perturbing the regulation of cell death.
In cells from the adrenal medulla, angiotensin II (AII) regulates both the activity and mRNA levels of catecholamine biosynthetic enzymes whose expression is thought to be under the control of cAMP-responsive element (CRE) binding protein (CREB). In this study, we evaluated the effect of AII stimulation on CREB phosphorylation at Ser133 (pCREB) in bovine adrenal chromaffin cells (BACC). We found that AII produces a rapid and AII type-1 receptor (AT1)-dependent increase in pCREB levels, which is blocked by the MEK1/2 inhibitor U0126 but not by H-89, SB203580 or KN-93, suggesting that it is mediated by the extracellular-regulated protein kinases 1 and 2 (ERK1/2) and not by cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA), p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (p38MAPK) or Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinases (CaMKs) dependent pathways. Gel-shift experiments showed that the increase in pCREB levels is accompanied by an ERK1/2-dependent upregulation of CRE-binding activity. We also found that AII promotes a rapid and reversible increase in the activity of the non-receptor tyrosine kinase Src and that the inhibition of this enzyme completely blocks the AII-induced phosphorylation of ERK1/2, the CREB kinase (p90)RSK and CREB. Our data support the hypothesis that in BACC, AII upregulates CREB functionality through a mechanism that requires Src-mediated activation of ERK 1/2 and (p90)RSK.
Rats exposed to acute unavoidable stress develop a deficit in escaping avoidable aversive stimuli that lasts as long as unavoidable stress exposure is repeated. A 3-week exposure to unavoidable stress also reduces dopamine (DA) output in the nucleus accumbens shell (NAcS). This study showed that a 7-day exposure to unavoidable stress induced in rats an escape deficit and a decrease in extraneuronal DA basal concentration in the NAcS. Moreover, animals had reduced DA and serotonin (5-HT) accumulation after cocaine administration in the medial pre-frontal cortex (mPFC) and NAcS, compared with control animals. After a 3-week exposure to unavoidable stress, escape deficit and reduced DA output in the NAcS were still significant at day 14 after the last stress administration. In the mPFC we observed: (i) a short-term reduction in DA basal levels that was back to control values at day 14; (ii) a decrease in DA accumulation at day 3 followed by a significant increase beyond control values at day 14; (iii) a significant reduction in 5-HT extraneuronal basal levels at day 3, but not at day 14. Finally, a significant decrease in 5-HT accumulation following cocaine administration was present in the NAcS and mPFC at day 3, but not at day 14. In conclusion, a long-term stress exposure induced long-lasting behavioral sequelae associated with reproducible neurochemical modifications.
Pathological-length polyglutamine (Q(n)) expansions, such as those that occur in the huntingtin protein (htt) in Huntington's disease (HD), are excellent substrates for tissue transglutaminase in vitro, and transglutaminase activity is increased in post-mortem HD brain. However, direct evidence for the participation of tissue transglutaminase (or other transglutaminases) in HD patients in vivo is scarce. We now report that levels of N(epsilon)-(gamma-L-glutamyl)-L-lysine (GGEL)--a 'marker' isodipeptide produced by the transglutaminase reaction--are elevated in the CSF of HD patients (708 +/- 41 pmol/mL, SEM, n = 36) vs. control CSF (228 +/- 36, n = 27); p &lt; 0.0001. These data support the hypothesis that transglutaminase activity is increased in HD brain in vivo.
The dopamine (DAT) and serotonin (SERT) transporter genes both contain variable number of tandem repeats (VNTR) in non-coding gene regions which have been correlated with a predisposition to a variety of CNS disorders. There is considerable homology between individual DAT and SERT repeat DNA sequences, which is reflected in their ability to compete with each other for specific protein binding as demonstrated by electrophoretic mobility shift assay. The SERT VNTR has recently been shown to act as a transcriptional enhancer. Because of the similarities between SERT and DAT VNTRs, the DAT VNTR may also enhance transcription. This study demonstrates by lipid transfection into an immortalized dopaminergic cell line and biolistic transfection into dopamine neurons in neonatal rat midbrain slices that the human nine-repeat DAT VNTR can enhance transcription. This enhancing activity suggests that the DAT VNTR may play a role in regulation of DAT gene expression.
Polyamines are ubiquitous cations that are essential for cell growth, regeneration and differentiation. Increases in polyamine metabolism have been implicated in several neuropathological conditions, including excitotoxicity. However, the precise role of polyamines in neuronal degeneration is still unclear. To investigate mechanisms by which polyamines could contribute to excitotoxic neuronal death, the present study examined the role of the polyamine interconversion pathway in kainic acid (KA) neurotoxicity using organotypic hippocampal slice cultures. Treatment of cultures with N1,N(2)-bis(2,3-butadienyl)-1,4-butanediamine (MDL 72527), an irreversible inhibitor of polyamine oxidase, resulted in a partial but significant neuronal protection, especially in CA1 region. In addition, this pre-treatment also attenuated KA-induced increase in levels of lipid peroxidation, cytosolic cytochrome C release and glial cell activation. Furthermore, pre-treatment with a combination of cyclosporin A (an inhibitor of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore) and MDL 72527 resulted in an additive and almost total neuronal protection against KA toxicity, while the combination of MDL 72527 and EUK-134 (a synthetic catalase/superoxide dismutase mimetic) did not provide additive protection. These data strongly suggest that the polyamine interconversion pathway partially contributes to KA-induced neurodegeneration via the production of reactive oxygen species.
Neuronal vulnerability to ethanol may be non-specific, i.e., vulnerability may be conferred by the developmental state of the population or by the site of derivation. To address these issues, the effect of developmental exposure to ethanol on three brainstem nuclei; the trigeminal motor (MoV), facial motor (MoVII) and medial superior olivary (MSO) nuclei was determined. MoVII and MSO are generated at the same time and from the same rhombomere, r4. MoV is generated earlier from r2. Macaca nemestrina were exposed to ethanol or a control solution one day per week for six or 24 weeks of gestation. Brainstems of the mature offspring were sectioned and stained. The number of neurons and volume of each nucleus were determined stereologically. Neuron number was lower in MoV and MSO following exposure to ethanol whereas MoVII appeared unaffected. No significant effects of ethanol exposure were seen on the volume and weight of the brainstem, or the volume of the individual nuclei. These findings show that ethanol differentially affects brainstem nuclei in a targeted, rather than non-specific, manner. Furthermore, they show that serious ethanol-induced neurological deficits can be present without gross morphological changes.
The importance of progesterone biosynthesis and metabolism to 5alpha-pregnan-3alpha-ol-20-one (3alpha,5alpha-THP), which exerts its effects via GABAA/benzodiazepine receptor complexes (GBRs) rather than intracellular progestin receptors (PRs), was investigated for its effects on sexual receptivity. Epostane, a 3beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase inhibitor, blocks progesterone and 3alpha,5alpha-THP biosynthesis. Finasteride, a 5alpha-reductase inhibitor, blocks the metabolism of progesterone to dihydroprogesterone (DHP), which is subsequently metabolized to 3alpha,5alpha-THP. Indomethacin, a 3alpha-hydroxysteroid oxidoreductase inhibitor, blocks DHP's metabolism to 3alpha,5alpha-THP, and its oxidation to DHP. Epostane, finasteride, indomethacin or vehicle were infused intracranially in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) of hormone-primed or naturally receptive rats and hamsters and sexual behaviour was recorded. Epostane, finasteride and indomethacin to the VTA significantly reduced lordosis, compared to vehicle infusions, in hormone-primed and behavioural oestrous rats and hamsters. Radioimmunoassay revealed that concentrations of midbrain 3alpha,5alpha-THP were reduced following epostane, finasteride or indomethacin infusions that significantly decreased lordosis. Immunocytochemistry for 3alpha,5alpha-THP revealed the number of immunoreactive cells were significantly reduced in the VTA following epostane, finasteride or indomethacin infusion to the VTA, but not other midbrain sites. These data suggest that biosynthesis of progestins, and the metabolism of progesterone to 3alpha,5alpha-THP in the VTA, are important for progestin-facilitated sexual receptivity of rats and hamsters.
Forced swimming, as an effective stressor, has been found to facilitate the development of pair bonds in male but to interfere with this behaviour in female prairie voles (Microtus ochrogaster). In the present study, we found that forced swimming differentially influenced the expression of messenger RNA for vasopressin, oxytocin and corticotrophin-releasing hormone (CRH) in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN) in the prairie vole brain. Forced swimming did not alter vasopressin mRNA labelling, but did induce a sustained decrease in oxytocin mRNA labelling and a progressive increase in CRH mRNA labelling in the PVN. The elevated CRH mRNA labelling appeared to be due to an increased number of cells synthesizing CRH mRNA and an enhanced ability of individual cells to produce CRH mRNA. Male and female prairie voles did not differ in the vasopressin, oxytocin or CRH mRNA expression either at the basal levels or in response to swimming stress. Together, these data indicate that the hypothalamic response of vasopressin, oxytocin and CRH messenger RNAs to swimming stress is regulated by distinct transcriptional factors. In addition, it seems unlikely that these changes are involved directly in the sex differences in pair bond formation.
Visual disturbances are common in multiple sclerosis (MS) and often a result of acute demyelinating optic neuropathy. Careful examination of MS patients, who have never suffered optic neuritis, may also reveal asymptomatic visual loss. This type of silent disease activity was investigated by computerised resolution perimetry, which has the potential to reflect the percentage of functional retino-cortical neural channels. The time of onset and the evolution of asymptomatic visual loss was investigated. One approach was to retrospectively select patients who never had suffered acute optic neuritis from a closely monitored MS population and re-examine them again. Sixteen patients were identified and vision was evaluated during a period of 5.5-9 years of follow-up and compared with that in 14 healthy controls. The mean channel percentage of the MS group was 89 +/- 19 % (SD) on entry into the study, compared with 110 +/- 15% (SD) of controls (p &lt; 0.003). At termination of the study the mean percentage was essentially unchanged both in MS patients (87 +/- 21%, SD) and controls (110 +/- 19%, SD). The second approach was to test a group of 7 patients with MS or strongly suspected MS, with the same method, in close connection with their first clinical exacerbation. All cases lacked visual symptoms and none had previously had acute visual loss. Again, virtually all performed subnormally in the vision tests, and to the same degree as in the first group of patients. Results were compared with those obtained from 25 MS patients who had experienced one or more attacks of optic neuritis. Compared with controls the loss of functional retino-cortical neural channels was 20% in patients without a previous history of optic neuritis and 30 % in patients who previously had experienced optic neuritis. We conclude that asymptomatic visual loss seems to be a universal feature of MS and has a substantial impact on the visual pathways, that it is present already at the time of clinical onset of the disease, and that any progression thereafter is slow enough to elude detection during several years of follow-up.
Clinical reports show that bilateral subthalamic nucleus (STN) stimulation is effective in improving parkinsonian gait. Quantitative analysis of the efficacy of STN stimulation on gait is of interest and can be carried out using a commercially available stride analyser. Ten parkinsonian patients (5 men, 5 women) with a mean age of 55.8, SD 9.6 years were included in our study. They had a mean duration of Parkinson's disease (PD) of 13.3, SD 4.5 years and a motor examination score (part III of the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale) (UPDRS) of 43, SD 13 in off-stimulation off-drug condition. All the patients had bilateral chronic STN stimulation which had started from 3 to 36 months before the study. Patients were evaluated in off-drug and on-drug conditions both with and without stimulation. We analysed the principal gait measures: velocity, cadence, stride length, gait cycle, duration of single and double limb support. The clinical parkinsonian signs were evaluated with the part III of the UPDRS. In the off-drug condition, STN stimulation significantly (p &lt; 0.05) improved velocity and stride length. The effect was similar to that of levodopa. When STN stimulation was switched on at the best of the levodopa induced effect, no further improvement was observed. The UPDRS motor score was significantly (p &lt; 0.001) decreased after both stimulation and levodopa. In conclusion, STN stimulation is effective on parkinsonian gait.
To define the incidence and type of neurological complications and associated factors, we reviewed 41 consecutive patients who had 45 procedures for liver transplantation. Encephalopathy occurred after 28 procedures (62%) with immediate onset and no significant recovery before death or re-transplantation in 11 (24%), slow recovery in eight (18%) and delayed onset (1-50 days, average 11) in six (13%). Intermittent confusion and agitation with full recovery followed three (6.6%), and focal and generalized seizures followed five (11%) procedures with multifocal myoclonus in two and status epilepticus in one; isolated focal seizures followed two and myoclonus or unclassified seizures, one each. All patients with seizures had encephalopathy. Three patients had neuropathy (2 generalised and 1 focal). Other complications included headache (2), tremors (2), fatigue (2), restlessness, nervousness, transient enuresis, intermittent dizziness, critical illness myopathy and detached retina. Brain imaging showed atrophy in three (6.6%) instances, intracerebral haemorrhage in two, multiple infarctions in one, and intracerebral and subarachnoid haemorrhage with infarction in one. Cerebrospinal fluid analysis showed increased protein in three, hemorrhage in one, and no abnormality in one patient. Of 12 patients (29%) who died before discharge, five in the first and three in the second week post-transplantation, 11 (92%) had encephalopathy post-operatively. Neurological complications after transplantation were associated with increased mortality. Post-operative hypomagnesaemia was associated with the development of nervous system complications. We did not identify any clear pre-operative predictors of development of post-operative neurological complications.
In several white matter diseases of the central nervous system (CNS), and in particular in multiple sclerosis (MS), conventional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has proved to be sensitive for detecting lesions and their changes over time. However, conventional MRI is not able to characterize and quantify the tissue damage within and outside such lesions. Other quantitative MR techniques, including proton MR spectroscopy (1H-MRS), magnetization transfer MRI (MT-MRI) and diffusion-weighted MRI (DW-MRI) have the potential to overcome this limitation and, as a consequence, to provide additional information about the nature and the extent of tissue damage, which would be inevitably lost when only conventional MRI is obtained. Metrics derived from MT- and DW-MRI can quantify the structural changes occurring within and outside lesions visible on conventional MRI scans. 1H-MRS could add information on the biochemical nature of such changes. The application of these MR techniques to the study of MS is increasing dramatically our understanding of how MS causes irreversible disability and it is likely to provide useful insights into the pathophysiology of other diseases of the CNS in the near future.

This paper considers neurocognitive models of aggression and relates them to explanations of the antisocial personality disorders. Two forms of aggression are distinguished: reactive aggression elicited in response to frustration/threat and goal directed, instrumental aggression. It is argued that different forms of neurocognitive model are necessary to explain the emergence of these different forms of aggression. Impairments in executive emotional systems (the somatic marker system or the social response reversal system) are related to reactive aggression shown by patients with &quot;acquired sociopathy&quot; due to orbitofrontal cortex lesions. Impairment in the capacity to form associations between emotional unconditioned stimuli, particularly distress cues, and conditioned stimuli (the violence inhibition mechanism model) is related to the instrumental aggression shown by persons with developmental psychopathy.

Demyelinating lesions of fiber bundles in and adjacent to the hypothalamus (i.e. the fornix. anterior commissure, internal capsule, and optic system) may be the basis for autonomic and endocrine alterations in multiple sclerosis (MS) patients. Therefore we investigated the presence and immunological activity of lesions in hypothalamic fiber bundles of 17 MS patients and 14 controls. In the MS group, 16 of 17 patients showed demyelinated lesions. The incidence of active lesions was high (60%) and outnumbered chronic inactive lesions in the internal capsule (p = 0.005). In 4 of 17 MS patients, axonal damage was observed and in 3 of 17 MS patients grey matter lesions were apparent. Duration of MS was inversely related to the active hypothalamic MS lesion score (r = -0.72, p = 0.001). Since comparison of hypothalamic lesions with MS lesions in other areas of the brain in the same patients (n = 7) showed a great similarity both as stage and appearance was concerned, this negative relation in all likelihood reflects the clinical consequences of high disease activity throughout the whole brain. In controls no demyelinating lesions were seen but in 11 control cases HLA expression was observed that was lower than that present in MS patients (p = 0.02). In the median eminence region that lacks a blood-brain barrier, all controls showed a strong HLA expression around the blood vessels. We conclude that systematic pathological investigation of the hypothalamus in MS patients reveals an unexpected high incidence of active lesions that may impact on hypothalamic functioning.
JNK and p38, two members of the MAP kinase family, are strongly induced by various stresses including oxidative stress and have been involved in regulation of apoptosis. As both kinases phosphorylate tau protein in vitro, we have investigated their immunohistochemical localization in a group of neurodegenerative diseases characterized by intracellular deposits of hyperphosphorylated tau. Cases included Alzheimer disease, Pick disease, progressive supranuclear palsy, corticobasal degeneration, Gerstmann-Strussler-Scheinker disease-Indiana kindred, and frontotemporal dementia with parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17. In all tissue samples, strong immunoreactivity for both MAP kinases was found in the same neuronal or glial cells that contained tau-positive deposits. By double immunohistochemistry, JNK and p38 colocalized with tau in the inclusions. Analysis of apoptosis-related changes (DNA fragmentation, activated caspase-3) showed that the expression of JNK and p38 was unrelated to activation of an apoptotic cascade. Our data indicate that phospho-JNK and phospho-p38 are associated with hyperphosphorylated tau in a variety of abnormal tau inclusions, suggesting that these kinases may play a role in the development of degenerative diseases with tau pathology.
Cultured spinal cord networks grown on microelectrode arrays display complex patterns of spontaneous burst and spike activity. During disinhibition with bicuculline and strychnine, synchronized burst patterns routinely emerge. However, the variability of both intra- and interculture burst periods and durations are typically large under these conditions. As a further step in simplification of synaptic interactions, we blocked excitatory AMPA synapses with 2,3-dioxo-6-nitro-1,2,3,4-tetrahydrobenzoquinoxaline-7-sulphonamide (NBQX), resulting in network activity mediated through the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor (NMDA(ONLY)). This activity was APV sensitive. The oscillation under NMDA(ONLY) conditions at 37 degrees C was characterized by a period of 2.9 +/- 0.3 s (16 separate cultures). More than 98% of all neurons recorded participated in this highly rhythmic activity. The temporal coefficients of variation, reflecting the rhythmic nature of the oscillation, were 3.7, 4.7, and 4.9% for burst rate, burst duration, and interburst interval, respectively [mean coefficients of variation (CVs) for 16 cultures]. The oscillation persisted for at least 12 h without change (maximum observation time). Once established, it was not perturbed by agents that block mGlu receptors, GABA(B) receptors, cholinergic receptors, purinergic receptors, tachykinin receptors, serotonin (5-HT) receptors, dopamine receptors, electrical synapses, burst afterhyperpolarization, NMDA receptor desensitization, or the hyperpolarization-activated current. However, the oscillation was destroyed by bath application of NMDA (20-50 microM). These results suggest a presynaptic mechanism underlying this periodic rhythm that is solely dependent on the NMDA synapse. When the AMPA/kainate synapse was the sole driving force (n = 6), the resulting burst patterns showed much higher variability and did not develop the highly periodic, synchronized nature of the NMDA(ONLY) activity. Network size or age did not appear to influence the reliability of expression of the NMDA(ONLY) activity pattern. For this reason, we suggest that the NMDA(ONLY) condition unmasks a fundamental rhythmogenic mechanism of possible functional importance during periods of NMDA receptor-dominated activity, such as embryonic and early postnatal development.
In hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons, action potentials are typically initiated in the axon and backpropagate into the dendrites, shaping the integration of synaptic activity and influencing the induction of synaptic plasticity. Despite previous reports describing action-potential propagation in the proximal apical dendrites, the extent to which action potentials invade the distal dendrites of CA1 pyramidal neurons remains controversial. Using paired somatic and dendritic whole cell recordings, we find that in the dendrites proximal to 280 microm from the soma, single backpropagating action potentials exhibit &lt;50% attenuation from their amplitude in the soma. However, in dendritic recordings distal to 300 microm from the soma, action potentials in most cells backpropagated either strongly (26-42% attenuation; n = 9/20) or weakly (71-87% attenuation; n = 10/20) with only one cell exhibiting an intermediate value (45% attenuation). In experiments combining dual somatic and dendritic whole cell recordings with calcium imaging, the amount of calcium influx triggered by backpropagating action potentials was correlated with the extent of action-potential invasion of the distal dendrites. Quantitative morphometric analyses revealed that the dichotomy in action-potential backpropagation occurred in the presence of only subtle differences in either the diameter of the primary apical dendrite or branching pattern. In addition, action-potential backpropagation was not dependent on a number of electrophysiological parameters (input resistance, resting potential, voltage sensitivity of dendritic spike amplitude). There was, however, a striking correlation of the shape of the action potential at the soma with its amplitude in the dendrite; larger, faster-rising, and narrower somatic action potentials exhibited more attenuation in the distal dendrites (300-410 microm from the soma). Simple compartmental models of CA1 pyramidal neurons revealed that a dichotomy in action-potential backpropagation could be generated in response to subtle manipulations of the distribution of either sodium or potassium channels in the dendrites. Backpropagation efficacy could also be influenced by local alterations in dendritic side branches, but these effects were highly sensitive to model parameters. Based on these findings, we hypothesize that the observed dichotomy in dendritic action-potential amplitude is conferred primarily by differences in the distribution, density, or modulatory state of voltage-gated channels along the somatodendritic axis.
Olfactory receptor neurons of the nasal epithelium project via the olfactory nerve (ON) to the glomeruli of the main olfactory bulb, where they form glutamatergic synapses with the apical dendrites of mitral and tufted cells, the output cells of the olfactory bulb, and with juxtaglomerular interneurons. The glomerular layer contains one of the largest population of dopamine (DA) neurons in the brain, and DA in the olfactory bulb is found exclusively in juxtaglomerular neurons. D2 receptors, the predominant DA receptor subtype in the olfactory bulb, are found in the ON and glomerular layers, and are present on ON terminals. In the present study, field potential and single-unit recordings, as well as whole cell patch-clamp techniques, were used to investigate the role of DA and D2 receptors in glomerular synaptic processing in rat and mouse olfactory bulb slices. DA and D2 receptor agonists reduced ON-evoked synaptic responses in mitral/tufted and juxtaglomerular cells. Spontaneous and ON-evoked spiking of mitral cells was also reduced by DA and D2 agonists, and enhanced by D2 antagonists. DA did not produce measurable postsynaptic changes in juxtaglomerular cells, nor did it alter their responses to mitral/tufted cell inputs. DA also reduced 1) paired-pulse depression of ON-evoked synaptic responses in mitral/tufted and juxtaglomerular cells and 2) the amplitude and frequency of spontaneous, but not miniature, excitatory postsynaptic currents in juxtaglomerular cells. Taken together, these findings are consistent with the hypothesis that activation of D2 receptors presynaptically inhibits ON terminals. DA and D2 agonists had no effect in D2 receptor knockout mice, suggesting that D2 receptors are the only type of DA receptors that affect signal transmission from the ON to the rodent olfactory bulb.
Zebrafish embryos have small and slow miniature end-plate currents (mEPCs), whereas only a few days later larval mEPCs are an order of magnitude larger and faster, being among the fastest of all neuromuscular synapses. To identify the bases for these changes we compared, in embryos and larvae, the properties and distributions of acetylcholine (ACh) receptors (AChRs) and acetylcholinesterase (AChE) as well as the ultrastructure of the developing neuromuscular junctions (NMJs). To mimic synaptic release, patches of muscle membrane were exposed briefly (for 1 ms) to a saturating concentration (10 mM) of ACh. The AChR deactivation kinetics were twice as slow in embryos compared with larvae. In both embryos and larvae, AChRs demonstrated open channel block by millimolar ACh, and this was detected during mEPCs, indicating that a high concentration of ACh is released at immature and mature NMJs. AChR and AChE distributions were compared using the selective fluorescently conjugated labels alpha-bungarotoxin and fasciculin 2, respectively. In larvae, punctate AChR clusters were detected whereas junctional AChE staining was less intense than that found at adult NMJs. Transmission electron microscopy revealed immature nerve endings in embryos that were closely juxtaposed to the surrounding muscle cells, whereas mature larval NMJs had a wider synaptic cleft with a conspicuous basal lamina over a limited region of synaptic contact. Our results indicate that ACh is released at high concentrations at immature NMJs, but its clearance is prolonged and the AChRs are dispersed, resulting in a slow mEPC time course until a mature cleft appears with densely packed faster AChRs and abundant AChE.
An emerging viewpoint is that the CNS uses synergies to simplify the control of the hand. Previous work has shown that static hand postures for mimed grasps can be described by a few principal components in which the higher order components explained only a small fraction of the variance yet provided meaningful information. Extending that earlier work, this study addressed whether the entire act of grasp can be described by a small number of postural synergies and whether these synergies are similar for different grasps. Five right-handed adults performed five types of reach-to-grasps including power grasp, power grasp with a lift, precision grasp, and mimed power grasp and mimed precision grasp of 16 different objects. The object shapes were cones, cylinders, and spindles, systematically varied in size to produce a large range of finger joint angle combinations. Three-dimensional reconstructions of 21 positions on the hand and wrist throughout the reach-to-grasp were obtained using a four-camera video system. Singular value decomposition on the temporal sequence of the marker positions was used to identify the common patterns (&quot;eigenpostures&quot;) across the 16 objects for each task and their weightings as a function of time. The first eigenposture explained an average of 97.3 +/- 0.89% (mean +/- SD) of the variance of the hand shape, and the second another 1.9 +/- 0.85%. The first eigenposture was characterized by an open hand configuration that opens and closes during reach. The second eigenposture contributed to the control of the thumb and long fingers, particularly in the opening of the hand during the reach and the closing in preparation for object grasp. The eigenpostures and their temporal evolutions were similar across subjects and grasps. The higher order eigenpostures, although explaining only small amounts of the variance, contributed to the movements of the fingers and thumb. These findings suggest that much of reach-to-grasp is effected using a base posture with refinements in finger and thumb positions added in time to yield unique hand shapes.
A central theme in neural coding concerns the role of response variability and noise in determining the information transmission of neurons. This issue was investigated in single cells of the lateral geniculate nucleus of barbiturate-anesthetized cats by quantifying the degree of precision in and the information transmission properties of individual spike train responses to full field, binary (bright or dark), flashing stimuli. We found that neuronal responses could be highly reproducible in their spike timing (approximately 1-2 ms standard deviation) and spike count (approximately 0.3 ratio of variance/mean, compared with 1.0 expected for a Poisson process). This degree of precision only became apparent when an adequate length of the stimulus sequence was specified to determine the neural response, emphasizing that the variables relevant to a cell's response must be controlled to observe the cell's intrinsic response precision. Responses could carry as much as 3.5 bits/spike of information about the stimulus, a rate that was within a factor of two of the limit the spike train could transmit. Moreover, there appeared to be little sign of redundancy in coding: on average, longer response sequences carried at least as much information about the stimulus as would be obtained by adding together the information carried by shorter response sequences considered independently. There also was no direct evidence found for synergy between response sequences. These results could largely, but not entirely, be explained by a simple model of the response in which one filters the stimulus by the cell's impulse response kernel, thresholds the result at a fairly high level, and incorporates a postspike refractory period.
Some musical chords sound pleasant, or consonant, while others sound unpleasant, or dissonant. Helmholtz's psychoacoustic theory of consonance and dissonance attributes the perception of dissonance to the sensation of &quot;beats&quot; and &quot;roughness&quot; caused by interactions in the auditory periphery between adjacent partials of complex tones comprising a musical chord. Conversely, consonance is characterized by the relative absence of beats and roughness. Physiological studies in monkeys suggest that roughness may be represented in primary auditory cortex (A1) by oscillatory neuronal ensemble responses phase-locked to the amplitude-modulated temporal envelope of complex sounds. However, it remains unknown whether phase-locked responses also underlie the representation of dissonance in auditory cortex. In the present study, responses evoked by musical chords with varying degrees of consonance and dissonance were recorded in A1 of awake macaques and evaluated using auditory-evoked potential (AEP), multiunit activity (MUA), and current-source density (CSD) techniques. In parallel studies, intracranial AEPs evoked by the same musical chords were recorded directly from the auditory cortex of two human subjects undergoing surgical evaluation for medically intractable epilepsy. Chords were composed of two simultaneous harmonic complex tones. The magnitude of oscillatory phase-locked activity in A1 of the monkey correlates with the perceived dissonance of the musical chords. Responses evoked by dissonant chords, such as minor and major seconds, display oscillations phase-locked to the predicted difference frequencies, whereas responses evoked by consonant chords, such as octaves and perfect fifths, display little or no phase-locked activity. AEPs recorded in Heschl's gyrus display strikingly similar oscillatory patterns to those observed in monkey A1, with dissonant chords eliciting greater phase-locked activity than consonant chords. In contrast to recordings in Heschl's gyrus, AEPs recorded in the planum temporale do not display significant phase-locked activity, suggesting functional differentiation of auditory cortical regions in humans. These findings support the relevance of synchronous phase-locked neural ensemble activity in A1 for the physiological representation of sensory dissonance in humans and highlight the merits of complementary monkey/human studies in the investigation of neural substrates underlying auditory perception.
Neurons of the avian nucleus magnocellularis transmit phase-locked action potentials of the auditory nerve in a pathway that contributes to sound localization based on interaural timing differences. We studied developmental changes in synaptic transmission that enable the end-bulb synapse to function as a synaptic relay. In chick, although the auditory system begins to function early in embryonic development, maturation of audition around the time of hatching suggested that synaptic transmission in the cochlear nucleus of young chicks may undergo further developmental changes. Synaptic physiology was investigated via patch-clamp recordings from bushy cells in brainstem slices during stimulation of auditory nerve fibers at 35 degrees C. Compared with embryonic synapses (embryonic day 18), post-hatch chicks (post-hatch days 1-11) exhibited high probability of firing a well timed postsynaptic action potential during high-frequency stimulation of the auditory nerve. Improvements in reliability and timing of postsynaptic spikes were accompanied by a developmental increase in steady-state EPSCs during stimulus trains and a decline in the extent of synaptic depression. Synchrony of EPSCs during stimulus trains improved with age. An increased pool of synaptic vesicles, lower release probability, larger and faster transmitter quanta, and reduced AMPA receptor desensitization contributed to these changes. Together, these factors improve the ability of cochlear nucleus magnocellularis neurons to faithfully transmit timing information encoded by the auditory nerve.
When depressing synapses are embedded in a circuit composed of a pacemaker neuron and a neuron with no autorhythmic properties, the network can show two modes of oscillation. In one mode the synapses are mostly depressed, and the oscillations are dominated by the properties of the oscillating neuron. In the other mode, the synapses recover from depression, and the oscillations are primarily controlled by the synapses. We demonstrate the two modes of oscillation in a hybrid circuit consisting of a biological pacemaker and a model neuron, reciprocally coupled via model depressing synapses. We show that across a wide range of parameter values this network shows robust bistability of the oscillation mode and that it is possible to switch the network from one mode to the other by injection of a brief current pulse in either neuron. The underlying mechanism for bistability may be present in many types of circuits with reciprocal connections and synaptic depression.
The spatial and temporal patterns of neocortex activation are determined not only by the dynamic character of the input but also by the intrinsic dynamics of the cortical circuitry. To study the role of afferent input frequency on cortical activation dynamics, the electrical activity of in vitro neocortex slices was imaged during white-matter electrical stimulation. High-speed optical imaging was implemented using voltage-sensitive dyes in guinea pig visual and somatosensory cortex slices concomitantly with intracellular recordings. Single white-matter electrical stimuli activated well-defined cortical sites with a radially oriented columnar configuration. This configuration was followed, over the next few milliseconds, by a lateral spread of excitation through cortical layers 5 and 6 and layers 2 and 3. Much of the optical response was eliminated in low extracellular calcium, indicating that it was primarily synaptically mediated. Repetitive stimuli at 10 Hz reproduced the spatiotemporal pattern observed for single stimuli. In contrast, repetitive stimulation in the gamma frequency range ( approximately 40 Hz) rapidly restrained the area of excitation to a small columnar site directly above the stimulating electrode. Intracellular recordings from cells lateral to the activated column revealed increased inhibitory synaptic activity and/or decreased excitatory responses during the train at 40 Hz, but not during a 10 Hz stimulation. Localized microinjections of GABA(A) antagonist produced a reorganization of the geometrical activity pattern that was dependent on the position of the microinjection site. These findings indicate that the frequency-dependent spatial organization of neocortex activation is determined by inhibitory sculpting attributable to local network dynamics.
We recorded behavioral, perceptual, and neural responses to targets that provided apparent visual motion consisting of a sequence of stationary flashes. Increasing the flash separation degrades the quality of motion, but for some separations evoked larger smooth pursuit responses from both humans and monkeys than did smooth motion. The same flash separations also produced an increase in perceived speed in humans. Recordings from single neurons in the middle temporal visual area (MT) of awake monkeys revealed a potential basis for the illusion in the population response. Apparent motion produced diminished neural responses relative to smooth motion. However, neurons with slow preferred speeds were more affected than were those with fast preferred speeds. Increasing the flash separation thus caused the population response to become diminished in amplitude and to shift so that the most active neurons had higher preferred speeds. The entire constellation of effects of apparent motion on the magnitude and latency of the initial pursuit response was accounted for if the MT population response was decoded by (1) creating an opponent motion signal for each neuron by treating its preferred and opposite direction responses as those of a pair of oppositely tuned neurons and (2) computing the vector average of these opponent motion signals. Other ways of decoding the population response recorded in MT failed to account for one or more aspects of behavior. We conclude that the effects of apparent motion on both pursuit and perception can be accounted for if target speed is estimated from the MT population response by a neural computation that implements a vector average based on opponent motion.
We used a murine model to investigate functional interactions between tumors and peripheral nerves that may contribute to pain associated with cancer. Implantation of fibrosarcoma cells in and around the calcaneus bone produced mechanical hyperalgesia of the ipsilateral paw. Electrophysiological recordings from primary afferent fibers in control and hyperalgesic mice with tumor revealed the development of spontaneous activity (0.2-3.4 Hz) in 34% of cutaneous C-fibers adjacent to the tumor (9-17 d after implantation). C-fibers in tumor-bearing mice exhibited a mean decrease in heat threshold of 3.5 +/- 0.10 degrees C. We also examined innervation of the skin overlying the tumor. Epidermal nerve fibers (ENFs) were immunostained for protein gene product 9.5, imaged using confocal microscopy, and analyzed in terms of number of fibers per millimeter of epidermal length and branching (number of nodes per fiber). Divergent morphological changes were linked to tumor progression. Although branching of ENFs increased significantly relative to control values, in later stages (16-24 d after implantation) of tumor growth a sharp decrease in the number of ENFs was observed. This decay of epidermal innervation of skin over the tumor coincided temporally with gradual loss of electrophysiological activity in tumor-bearing mice. The development of spontaneous activity and sensitization to heat in C-fibers and increased innervation of cutaneous structures within the first 2 weeks of tumor growth suggest activation and sensitization of a proportion of C-fibers. The decrease in the number of ENFs observed in later stages of tumor development implicates neuropathic involvement in this model of cancer pain.
Members of the epidermal growth factor (EGF) family are frequently implicated in the injury response of the mammalian nervous system. Although this implication is supported by extensive molecular evidence, it is not underpinned by conclusive functional data. Recently, we found that expression of an EGF homolog from the pond snail Lymnaea stagnalis (L-EGF) is upregulated after axotomy in the adult CNS, suggesting a role for this molecule in the injury response of the CNS. In the present study we asked whether L-EGF can promote axonal regeneration of three types of identified neurons in organ-cultured CNS. Treatment with purified L-EGF substantially enhanced axonal regeneration of all three types of neurons, an effect inhibited by submicromolar doses of PD153035, a specific EGF receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitor. In addition, PD153035 and K252a, a nonspecific kinase inhibitor, also reduced the degree of axonal regeneration that occurs without L-EGF supplementation, indicating that L-EGF or other EGFR ligands synthesized in the CNS participate in the regenerative response. An intriguing aspect of these results is that axonal regeneration of different, intrinsically L-EGF responsive and unresponsive neurons occurred in a coordinated manner. This observation suggests that indirect in addition to direct actions contribute to the beneficial effect of L-EGF. In conclusion, we provide functional evidence that an EGF homolog can promote axonal regeneration, substantiating existing molecular evidence implicating the EGF family in peripheral nerve regeneration and emphasizes the therapeutic potential of these molecules.
Little axonal regeneration occurs after spinal cord injury in adult mammals. Regrowth of mature CNS axons can be induced, however, by altering the intrinsic capacity of the neurons for growth or by providing a permissive environment at the injury site. Fetal spinal cord transplants and neurotrophins were used to influence axonal regeneration in the adult rat after complete spinal cord transection at a midthoracic level. Transplants were placed into the lesion cavity either immediately after transection (acute injury) or after a 2-4 week delay (delayed or chronic transplants), and either vehicle or neurotrophic factors were administered exogenously via an implanted minipump. Host axons grew into the transplant in all groups. Surprisingly, regeneration from supraspinal pathways and recovery of motor function were dramatically increased when transplants and neurotrophins were delayed until 2-4 weeks after transection rather than applied acutely. Axonal growth back into the spinal cord below the lesion and transplants was seen only in the presence of neurotrophic factors. Furthermore, the restoration of anatomical connections across the injury site was associated with recovery of function with animals exhibiting plantar foot placement and weight-supported stepping. These findings suggest that the opportunity for intervention after spinal cord injury may be greater than originally envisioned and that CNS neurons with long-standing injuries can reinitiate growth, leading to improvement in motor function.
The maintenance of synaptic strength and specificity in the CNS may depend on interactions among postsynaptic dendrites. We examined the effect of removing a neuron on synaptic organization. A single identified postsynaptic neuron in the adult cercal system of the cockroach was removed with photoablation. After a 30 d recovery period, the synaptic connectivity and morphology of the intact presynaptic and postsynaptic neurons were analyzed. The synaptic connectivity was reorganized in a manner that was consistent with functional plasticity. To associate anatomical changes with this reorganization, we analyzed the morphology of the presynaptic and postsynaptic neurons by quantitative morphometry. Both presynaptic and intact postsynaptic neurons maintained a stable morphology after removal of a neighboring postsynaptic neuron. Using the Hausdorff Match method (HM) (Mizrahi et al. 2000), we found that the spatial organization of the intact dendritic and axonal trees after ablation of a postsynaptic neuron remained stable. Thus, interactions with neighboring neurons were not necessary for maintaining dendritic morphology in the adult nervous system. However, adult central synapses were capable of adjusting to maintain normal function.
Some cases of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) are caused by mutations in the gene encoding cytosolic, copper-zinc superoxide dismutase (SOD1). We report here that rats that express a human SOD1 transgene with two different ALS-associated mutations (G93A and H46R) develop striking motor neuron degeneration and paralysis. As in the human disease and transgenic ALS mice, pathological analysis demonstrates selective loss of motor neurons in the spinal cords of these transgenic rats. In spinal cord tissues, this is accompanied by activation of apoptotic genes known to be activated by mutant SOD1 protein in vitro and in vivo. These animals provide additional support for the proposition that motor neuron death in SOD1-related ALS reflects one or more acquired, neurotoxic properties of the mutant SOD1 protein. The larger size of this rat model as compared with the ALS mice will facilitate studies involving manipulations of spinal fluid (implantation of intrathecal catheters for chronic therapeutic studies; CSF sampling) and spinal cord (e.g., direct administration of viral- and cell-mediated therapies).
A novel factor, termed Humanin (HN), antagonizes against neurotoxicity by various types of familial Alzheimer's disease (AD) genes [V642I and K595N/M596L (NL) mutants of amyloid precursor protein (APP), M146L-presenilin (PS) 1, and N141I-PS2] and by Abeta1-43 with clear action specificity ineffective on neurotoxicity by polyglutamine repeat Q79 or superoxide dismutase 1 mutants. Here we report that HN can also inhibit neurotoxicity by other AD-relevant insults: other familial AD genes (A617G-APP, L648P-APP, A246E-PS1, L286V-PS1, C410Y-PS1, and H163R-PS1), APP stimulation by anti-APP antibody, and other Abeta peptides (Abeta1-42 and Abeta25-35). The action specificity was further indicated by the finding that HN could not suppress neurotoxicity by glutamate or prion fragment. Against the AD-relevant insults, essential roles of Cys(8) and Ser(14) were commonly indicated, and the domain from Pro(3) to Pro(19) was responsible for the rescue action of HN, in which seven residues turned out to be essential. We also compared the neuroprotective action of S14G HN (HNG) with that of activity-dependent neurotrophic factor, IGF-I, or basic FGF for the antagonism against various AD-relevant insults (V642I-APP, NL-APP, M146L-PS1, N141I-PS2, and Abeta1-43). Although all of these factors could abolish neurotoxicity by Abeta1-43, only HNG could abolish cytotoxicities by all of them. HN and HN derivative peptides may provide a new insight into the study of AD pathophysiology and allow new avenues for the development of therapeutic interventions for various forms of AD.
In vertebrate neuromuscular junctions, ATP is stored at the motor nerve terminals and is co-released with acetylcholine during neural stimulation. Here, we provide several lines of evidence that the synaptic ATP can act as a synapse-organizing factor to induce the expression of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and acetylcholine receptor (AChR) in muscles, mediated by a metabotropic ATP receptor subtype, the P2Y(1) receptor. The activation of the P2Y(1) receptor by adenine nucleotides stimulated the accumulation of inositol phosphates and intracellular Ca(2+) mobilization in cultured chick myotubes. P2Y(1) receptor mRNA in chicken muscle is very abundant before hatching and again increases in the adult. The P2Y(1) receptor protein is shown to be restricted to the neuromuscular junctions and colocalized with AChRs in adult muscle (chicken, Xenopus, and rat) but not in the chick embryo. In chicks after hatching, this P2Y(1) localization develops over approximately 3 weeks. Denervation or crush of the motor nerve (in chicken or rat) caused up to 90% decrease in the muscle P2Y(1) transcript, which was restored on regeneration, whereas the AChR mRNA greatly increased. Last, mRNAs encoding the AChE catalytic subunit and the AChR alpha-subunit were induced when the P2Y(1) receptors were activated by specific agonists or by overexpression of P2Y(1) receptors in cultured myotubes; those agonists likewise induced the activity in the myotubes of promoter-reporter gene constructs for those subunits, actions that were blocked by a P2Y(1)-specific antagonist. These results provide evidence for a novel function of ATP in regulating the gene expression of those two postsynaptic effectors.
The Schaffer collateral pathway provides hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cells with a fairly homogeneous excitatory synaptic input that is spread out across several hundred micrometers of their apical dendritic arborizations. A progressive increase in synaptic conductance, with distance from the soma, has been reported to reduce the location dependence that should result from this arrangement. The excitatory synaptic contacts within this pathway primarily use AMPA- and NMDA-type glutamate receptors. To investigate the underlying mechanism of the increased distal excitatory postsynaptic conductance, we used outside-out patches and a fast application system to characterize the properties and distribution of synaptic glutamate receptors across the range of apical dendrites receiving Schaffer collateral input. We observed an approximately twofold increase in AMPA-mediated current amplitude (0.3-0.6 nA) in the range of CA1 apical dendrites that receive a uniform density of Schaffer collateral input (approximately 100-250 micrometer from soma). NMDA-mediated current amplitude, however, remained unchanged. We analyzed the current kinetics, agonist affinity, single-channel conductance, maximum open probability, and reversal potential of AMPA receptors and did not find any differences. Instead, the number of AMPA receptors present in our patches increased approximately twofold. These data suggest that an increase in the number of AMPA receptors present at distal synapses may play an important role in the distance-dependent scaling of Schaffer collateral synapses.
GABAergic IPSCs have a relatively slow decay (deactivation) that appears to result from GABA(A) receptor channel openings that occur well beyond the predicted duration of free GABA at central synapses. Open and desensitized states have been suggested to prevent dissociation of agonist from the receptor, thus prolonging deactivation. However, simultaneous assessment of GABA binding and channel gating has not been possible. We developed a functional assay for occupancy of the GABA binding site or sites to test the GABA &quot;trapping&quot; hypothesis. Deactivation currents were compared in the absence and presence of bicuculline, a competitive antagonist that also allosterically inhibits GABA(A) receptors. This provided a model-independent, functional test of the hypothesis that GABA is trapped on the receptor during gating: bicuculline could only inhibit the channel if it was open but unbound by GABA. Although bicuculline inhibited spontaneous and neurosteroid-activated GABA(A) receptor currents, it failed to alter the deactivation time course of GABA-activated GABA(A) receptor currents. Protection of deactivation current from bicuculline block indicated that GABA remained bound to the receptors while the channel was open, thus suggesting that all open states, as well as all closed and desensitized states from which channel opening can occur, must be GABA liganded states. Trapping may be specific to agonists, because the positive allosteric modulator diazepam unbound from GABA(A) receptors independent of GABA binding and channel activity.
The purpose of this evaluation was to determine the accuracy of a portable ultrasound instrument in assessing bladder volume in an acute care neuroscience population and the effect of ultrasound assessment on nursing practice in an acute care neuroscience unit. In a 6-week prospective evaluation, 105 paired ultrasound measurements were performed by 45 nurses on 30 patients suspected to be retaining urine. Sixty-seven catheterizations were performed, and volumes were compared with corresponding ultrasound readings. The first ultrasound volume readings slightly underestimated the catheterized volumes, but the volumes from the first ultrasound readings and the catheterized volumes were highly correlated. Volume readings from a second ultrasound, the average of the first and second ultrasound readings, and the higher of the two ultrasound readings did not add to the ability of the ultrasound instrument to predict catheterized volumes. Patient age and gender did not change the relationship between ultrasound and catheterized volumes. The ultrasound assessment changed nursing practice in 51% of the instances; the most common change (32%) was that nurses did not catheterize the patient. The ultrasound assessment did not change nursing practice in 49% of the instances; the most common reason (41%) was that the ultrasound confirmed the need to catheterize the patient. The instrument was therefore judged to be an accurate and reliable tool that changed nursing practice in an acute care neuroscience unit.
Abnormalities in energy metabolism and oxidative stress accompany many neurodegenerative diseases, including progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP). Previously, we showed decreased activities of a mitochondrial enzyme complex, alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase complex (KGDHC), and marked increases in tissue malondialdehyde levels in post-mortem superior frontal cortex from the patients with PSP. The current study demonstrates that KGDHC is also significantly diminished (-58%) in the cerebellum from patients with PSP (n = 14), compared to age-matched control brains (n = 13). In contrast to cortex, markers of oxidative stress, such as malondialdehyde, tyrosine nitration or general protein carbonyl modification, did not increase in cerebellum. Furthermore, the protein levels of the individual components of KGDHC did not decline. The activities of two other mitochondrial enzymes were measured to determine whether the changes in KGDHC were selective. The activity of aconitase, a mitochondrial enzyme with an iron/sulfur cluster, is also significantly diminished (-50%), whereas glutamate dehydrogenase activity is unchanged. The present results suggest that the interaction of metabolic impairment and oxidative stress is region-specific in PSP brain. In cerebellum, reductions in KGDHC occur in the absence of increases in common measures of oxidative stress, and may underlie the metabolic deficits and contribute to pathological and clinical manifestation related to the cerebellum in patients with PSP.
Cerebral edema and hepatic encephalopathy are major complications of acute liver failure. Brain herniation caused by increased intracranial pressure as a result of cell swelling is the major cause of death in this condition. Evidence available currently suggests that the rapid accumulation of ammonia by the brain is the major cause of the central nervous system complications of acute liver failure. Increased brain ammonia may cause cell swelling via the osmotic effects of an increase in astrocytic glutamine concentrations or by inhibition of glutamate removal from brain extracellular space. Acute liver failure results in altered expression of several genes in brain, some of which code for important proteins involved in CNS function such as the glucose (GLUT-1) and glutamate (GLT-1) transporters, the astrocytic structural protein glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) the &quot;peripheral-type&quot; benzodiazepine receptor (PTBR) and the water channel protein, aquaporin IV. Loss of expression of GLT-1 results in increased extracellular brain glutamate in acute liver failure. Experimental acute liver failure also results in post-translational modifications of the serotonin and noradrenaline transporters resulting in increased extracellular concentrations of these monoamines. Therapeutic measures currently used to prevent and treat brain edema and encephalopathy in patients with acute liver failure include mild hypothermia and the ammonia-lowering agent L-ornithine-L-aspartate.
To probe the effect of glutamine and GABA on metabolism of [U-(13)C]glutamate, cerebellar astrocytes were incubated with [U-(13)C]glutamate (0.5 mM) in the presence and absence of glutamine (2.5 mM) or GABA (0.2 mM). It could be shown that consumption of [U-(13)C]glutamate was decreased in the presence of glutamine and release of labeled aspartate and [1,2,3-(13)C]glutamate decreased as well, whereas the concentrations of these metabolites increased inside the cells. Glutamine decreased energy production from [U-(13)C]glutamate presumably by substituting for glutamate as an energy substrate. No additional effect was seen in the presence of both glutamine and GABA. When cerebellar granule neurons were incubated with [U-(13)C]glutamate (0.25 mM) and GABA (0.05 mM), less [U-(13)C]glutamate was used for energy production than in controls. Because the barbiturate thiopental did not elicit such response (Qu et al., 2000, Neurochem Int 37:207-215) it appears that GABA also has a metabolic function in the glutamatergic cerebellar granule neurons in contrast to the astrocytes.
Electron tomography was used to help redefine the membrane architecture of mitochondria in neurons of the brain. Investigations were conducted on unexplored questions of structural homogeneity between mitochondria in the four intensely studied regions of the brain and in the functionally distinct neuronal sub-compartments. These mitochondria have the majority of cristae composed of both tubular and lamellar segments with the tubes arranged more peripherally and the lamellae more centrally located. Cristae that are entirely tubular were not commonly seen and those that are entirely lamellar were rare. It was determined that cristae connect through narrow, sometimes very long tubular regions to the peripheral surface of the inner membrane. A structurally distinct type of contact site was revealed in brain mitochondria, which we named the bridge contact site. These bridges may play a role in the structural integrity of the outer and inner membrane systems. It was found that the membrane architecture in the various brain regions and neuronal compartments was strikingly uniform, including consistently tubular crista junctions. The functional consequences of this junctional architecture are discussed in relation to the segregation of proteins between the inner boundary membrane and the cristae membranes, and in relation to the model of microcompartmentation of macromolecules inside cristae.
Pyruvate carboxylation was studied in cerebellar astrocytes and granule neurons. The cells were incubated in medium containing [U-(13)C]glucose (2.5 mM) and [U-(13)C]lactate (1 mM) and varying amounts of 3-nitropropionic acid (3-NPA) plus/minus aspartate. 3-NPA alone clearly stopped tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle activity at the succinate dehydrogenase step in both culture types as evidenced by a buildup of succinate. Labeling of aspartate and glutamate was abolished in neurons in the presence of 3-NPA. In astrocytes, however, labeled glutamate and glutamine derived from pyruvate carboxylation was detected. Unchanged glucose and lactate metabolism in the absence of a functioning malate aspartate shuttle indicates the importance of the glycerol-3-phosphate shuttle in brain cells. To compensate for the loss of oxaloacetate in the presence of 3-NPA, unlabeled aspartate (0.25 mM) was added. In this case [1,2-(13)C] and [3,4-(13)C]aspartate were observed in neurons but not in astrocytes. This labeling pattern in aspartate occurs after a full turn of the TCA cycle and thus indicates only partial inhibition by 3-NPA in the neurons when aspartate is present. In astrocytes, however, aspartate derived from uniformly labeled pyruvate was observed clearly indicating pyruvate carboxylation. The present study has unequivocally demonstrated a quantitatively important pyruvate carboxylation in astrocytes but it was not possible to demonstrate the presence of such carboxylation in neurons. Based on the present results it may be safely concluded that neuronal pyruvate carboxylation is unlikely to be of quantitative significance.

The complement cascade has been suggested to be involved in the development of secondary brain injuries following brain contusions, based on animal experiments. The aim of the present study was to examine the possible involvement of the complement cascade following traumatic head injury in the human brain. Sixteen patients were included in this study, 12-77 years of age, treated at the neurointensive care unit for traumatic brain contusions. All of these patients were operated with frontal or temporal lobe resection due to intractable intracranial hypertension. The resected tissue was analyzed with regard to components related to complement activation. The time interval between accident and operation was 2-82 h. Brain tissue from three patients operated with hippocampectomy due to epilepsy, including temporal lobe resection, were used as controls. We found increased immunoreactivity for complement components C1q, C3b, and C3d and the membrane attack complex (MAC), C5b-9, in the immediate vicinity of neurons in the penumbra area of the contusion. These findings constitute histological evidence for activation of the complement cascade in the penumbra of cortical contusions in the human brain. Using in situ hybridization, we also found C3-mRNA in the penumbra, suggesting a local synthesis of complement. Furthermore, upregulation of the endogenous complement regulator clusterin was found in some neurons in the same area. We suggest that unknown compounds in the debris from injured neurons or myelin breakdown products trigger complement activation, including formation of C5b-9. Activated complement components may stimulate accumulation of inflammatory cells and formation of brain edema, as well as having membrane destructive effects by the end product MAC, thereby being mediators in the development of secondary brain damage.
Exercise activates endogenous opioid and adrenergic systems, but attenuation of experimental pain by exercise has not been shown consistently. In this study, effects of exercise on temporal summation of late pain responses to stimulation of unmyelinated (C) nociceptors were assessed. When a preheated thermode was applied repetitively to glabrous skin of the hand in a series of brief contacts at rates of 0.2 to 0.5 Hz, the perceived intensity of late thermal sensations increased after successive contacts. This summation of pain sensations provides information regarding the status of central opioid and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor systems. For normal subjects, temporal summation of late pain sensations was substantially attenuated when testing began 1.5 or 10 minutes after exercise. Individuals diagnosed with fibromyalgia syndrome (FMS) report generalized chronic pain that is increased after exercise. Therefore, we hypothesized that strenuous exercise would increase summation of late pain sensations in this cohort. Patients with FMS and control subjects exerted to similarly high metabolic rates, as shown by physiologic monitoring. Ratings of late pain sensations increased for patients with FMS after exercise, an effect opposite to a decrease in ratings for age/sex-matched control subjects. In contrast to this result for experimentally induced pain, clinical pain ratings were not substantially altered after strenuous exercise by patients with FMS.
Intrathecal administration of the human immunodeficiency virus-1 envelope glycoprotein, gp120, activates astrocytes and microglia to release products that induce thermal hyperalgesia and mechanical allodynia. Both pain states are disrupted by intrathecal CNI-1493, a p38 mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase inhibitor. Whether CNI-1493, or any other p38 MAP kinase inhibitor, can cross the blood-brain barrier to affect spinal cord function is unknown. Given that several such drugs are in clinical trials, it is of interest to determine whether they may be potentially useful in treating centrally mediated pain. The aim of the present studies was to determine whether systemic CNI-1493 could block intrathecal gp120-induced thermal hyperalgesia and/or mechanical allodynia. Because p38 MAP kinase inhibition would be expected to prevent proinflammatory cytokine release and/or signal transduction, we sought to determine from the same animals the likely mechanism by which CNI-1493 blocks gp120-induced pain states. These studies show that systemic CNI-1493 blocks intrathecal gp120-induced thermal hyperalgesia and mechanical allodynia. Because CNI-1493 did not block proinflammatory cytokine release, this may suggest disruption at the level of signal transduction. These studies provide the first evidence that systemic p38 MAP kinase inhibitors can prevent centrally mediated exaggerated pain states. Thus, CNI-1493 may provide a novel therapeutic approach for the treatment of pain.
Cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART) encodes a neuropeptide precursor protein that is highly abundant in cells of the hypothalamus. To date, the major research focus into the function of CART peptides has been feeding behavior. However, CART mRNA is found in other areas of the brain as well as some peripheral tissues, suggesting possible broader functions of this peptide. In this study, we investigated the effects of two CART peptides, CART 42-89 and CART 49-89, in several behavioral assays. Peptides were administered by i.c.v. route of administration. Both CART 42-89 and CART 49-89 inhibited food intake with the minimally effective dose of CART 42-89 (0.5 microg) being 5-fold greater than that of CART 49-89 (0.1 microg). Both peptides also produced significant antinociceptive effects in the hot-plate assay with similar potency differences. CART 42-89 significantly inhibited the acoustic startle response (ASR) of pulse alone trials at doses of 0.1 and 0.5 microg. In contrast, CART 49-89 did not affect ASR of pulse alone trials at doses of 0.05 and 0.1 (microg). For prepulse inhibition (PPI) trials, in general, both peptides appeared to enhance the magnitude of PPI and CART 42-89 was less potent than CART 49-89. Overall, these data suggest CART peptides may have multiple roles in central nervous system function and there may be biological differences between two processed forms of CART peptide.
The effects of the endocannabinoids anandamide (AEA) and 2-arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG) upon rat C6 glioma cell proliferation were examined and compared with a series of synthetic cannabinoids and related compounds. Cells were treated with the compounds each day and cell proliferation was monitored for up to 5 days of exposure. AEA time- and concentration-dependently inhibited C6 cell proliferation. After 4 days of treatment, AEA and 2-AG inhibited C6 cell proliferation with similar potencies (IC(50) values of 1.6 and 1.8 microM, respectively), whereas palmitoylethanolamide showed no significant antiproliferative effects at concentrations up to 10 microM. The antiproliferative effects of both AEA and 2-AG were blocked completely by a combination of antagonists at cannabinoid receptors (SR141716A and SR144528 or AM251 and AM630) and vanilloid receptors (capsazepine) as well as by alpha-tocopherol (0.1 and 10 microM), and reduced by calpeptin (10 microM) and fumonisin B(1) (10 microM), but not by L-cycloserine (1 and 100 microM). CP 55,940, JW015, olvanil, and arachidonoyl-serotonin were all found to affect C6 glioma cell proliferation (IC(50) values of 5.6, 3.2, 5.5, and 1.6 microM, respectively), but the inhibition could not be blocked by cannabinoid + vanilloid receptor antagonists. It is concluded that the antiproliferative effects of the endocannabinoids upon C6 cells are brought about by a mechanism involving combined activation of both vanilloid receptors and to a lesser extent cannabinoid receptors, and leading to oxidative stress and calpain activation. However, there is at present no obvious universal mechanism whereby plant-derived, synthetic, and endogenous cannabinoids affect cell viability and proliferation.
Anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) has a role in pain processing, however, little is known about opioid system organization and actions. This rodent study defines opioid architecture in the perigenual and midcingulate divisions of ACC, relates mu-opioid receptor binding and G-protein activation, and localizes such binding to afferent axons with knife-cut lesions and specifically to noradrenergic terminals with immunotoxin lesions (anti-dopamine beta-hydroxylase-saporin; anti-DBH-saporin). [(3)H]Tyr-D-AlaGly-MePhe-Gly-ol (DAMGO) binding was highest in perigenual areas 32 and 24 with a peak in layer I. Midcingulate area 24' and posterior cingulate area 29 had overall lower binding in each layer. In contrast, DAMGO-stimulated [(35)S]guanosine-5'-O-(gamma-thio)-triphosphate (GTPgammaS) binding in area 24' was similar to that in area 24, whereas area 29 had low and homogeneous binding. Undercut lesions reduced [(3)H]DAMGO binding in all layers with the greatest loss in layer I (-65%), whereas DAMGO-stimulated [(35)S]GTPgammaS binding losses occurred in only layers I-III. Anti-DBH-saporin reduced [(3)H]DAMGO binding in layer I of area 24; DAMGO-stimulated [(35)S]GTPgammaS binding was unchanged in areas 24' and 29. Correlation analysis of receptor and G-protein activation before and after undercut lesions suggested there were a greater number of DAMGO receptor sites for each G-protein on axons, than on somata and proximal dendrites. Finally, perigenual and midcingulate cortices have different opioid architectures due to a higher proportion of mu-opioid receptors expressed by afferent axons in areas 24 and 32.


Spontaneous spinal epidural abscess is a rare condition that is devastating and often fatal. Traditionally, surgery and antibiotics have been the treatment of choice; however, there has been some debate on the indications for their use. This technical note discusses a method for decompressing an acute multisegmental pyogenic spinal epidural abscess, thereby avoiding multilevel laminectomies.
Trigeminal sensory impairment is frequent in whiplash cases. The pathophysiology is unknown. The purpose of the present investigation was to prospectively study the trigeminal sensibility for temperature and vibration and to evaluate their relationship with the clinical symptoms. Thirty-four of 43 patients with whiplash injury were investigated through quantitative sensory tests with a mean of 6 weeks and 71 months after injury. Sensory disturbances over the trigeminal skin area persisted over the years ( r = 0.764. p &lt; 0.000). At follow-up, a significant correlation ( r = 0.614, p &lt; 0.000) was found between the sensory disturbances and the symptoms related to the central nervous system, whereas no significant relationship was found with the musculoskeletal symptoms. Trigeminal sensory impairment can either be explained by dysfunction in the central nervous system or by inhibitory mechanisms secondary to pain.
17alpha-methyl testosterone is a synthetic androgen with affinity for the androgen receptor. 17alpha-methyl testosterone is used widely as a component of hormone replacement therapy. Previous reports have indicated that contrary to testosterone, 17alpha-methyl testosterone is not aromatized. However, 17alpha-methyl testosterone still could affect local estrogen formation by regulating aromatase expression or by inhibiting aromatase action. Both possibilities have important clinical implications. To evaluate the effect of 17alpha-methyl testosterone on the expression and activity of aromatase, we tested the choriocarcinoma Jar cell line, a cell line that express high levels of P450 aromatase, and the macrophage-like THP-1 cells, which express aromatase only after undergoing differentiation. We found that in both cell lines, 17alpha-methyl testosterone inhibits aromatase activity in a dose-related manner. The curve of inhibition parallels that of letrozole and gives complete inhibition at 10(-4) M 17alpha-methyl testosterone, determined by the tritium release assay. 17alpha-methyl testosterone does not have detectable effects on aromatase RNA and protein expression by Jar cells. Undifferentiated THP-1 cells had no aromatase activity and showed no effect of 17alpha-methyl testosterone, but differentiated THP-1 (macrophage-like) cells had a similar inhibition of aromatase activity by 17alpha-methyl testosterone to that seen in Jar cells. The Lineweaver-Burke plot shows 17alpha-methyl testosterone to be a competitive aromatase inhibitor. Our results show for the first time that 17alpha-methyl testosterone acts as an aromatase inhibitor. These findings are relevant for understanding the effects of 17alpha-methyl testosterone as a component of hormone replacement therapy. 17alpha-methyl testosterone may, as a functional androgen and orally active steroidal inhibitor of endogenous estrogen production, also offer special possibilities for the prevention/treatment of hormone-sensitive cancers.
Three-dimensional reconstruction from electron micrographs requires the selection of many single-particle projection images; more than 10 000 are generally required to obtain 5- to 10-A structural resolution. Consequently, various automatic detection algorithms have been developed and successfully applied to large symmetric protein complexes. This paper presents a new automated particle recognition and pickup procedure based on the three-layer neural network that has a large application range than other automated procedures. Its use for both faint and noisy electron micrographs is demonstrated. The method requires only 200 selected particles as learning data and is able to detect images of proteins as small as 200 kDa.

On the basis of eight independent quantitative trait loci (QTL) studies of ethanol (alcohol) preference drinking in mice, a meta-analysis was carried out to examine the replicability of QTLs across studies and to enhance the power of QTL detection and parameter estimation. To avoid genetic heterogeneity, we analyzed only studies of mapping populations derived from the C57BL/6 (B6) and DBA/2 (D2) inbred progenitor strains. Because these studies were carried out in five different laboratories, there were substantial differences in testing procedure, data analysis, and especially in the choice of mapping population (BXD recombinant inbred strains, F2, backcross, selected lines, or congenic strains). Despite this, we found several QTLs that were sufficiently robust as to appear consistently across studies given the strengths and weaknesses of the mapping populations employed. These were on Chromosomes (Chrs) 2 (proximal to mid), 3 (mid to distal), 4 (distal), and 9 (proximal to mid). The P value for each of these QTLs, combined across all applicable studies, ranged from 10(-7) to 10(-15), with the additive effect of each QTL accounting for 3-5% of the trait variance extrapolated to an F2 population. Two other QTLs on Chrs 1 (distal) and 11 (mid) were less consistent, but still reached overall significance (P &lt;.0001).
Thiamine deficiency (TD) is a model of chronic impairment of oxidative metabolism that leads to neurodegeneration. TD induces oxidative stress and death in neurons, but does not kill astrocytes, microglia or brain endothelial cells. TD primary hippocampal neurons were either cultured alone, or co-cultured with primary astrocytes or microglia. After 7 days of TD, 50% of the neurons died, and the processes of many of the surviving neurons were severely truncated. When TD neurons were co-cultured with astrocytes or microglia, neurons did not die nor show decreased neurite outgrowth. Thus, neuronal-glial interactions are critical for maintaining neuronal homeostasis during chronic metabolic impairment.
Adrenal chromaffin cells and sympathetic neurons are related, but phenotypically distinct derivatives of the neural crest. Molecular cues that determine the chromaffin cell phenotype have not yet been identified; in contrast to a widely held belief, glucocorticoid signaling is apparently not relevant (Development 126 (1999) 2935). Transforming growth factor-betas (TGF-betas) regulate various aspects of embryonic development and are expressed in the environment of sympathoadrenal (SA) progenitor cells. We have previously shown that neutralization of endogenous TGF-beta from E4 to E8 in the quail embryo significantly increases numbers of adrenal tyrosine hydroxylase-positive cells. Whether endogenous TGF-beta may also be involved in influencing phenotypic development of adrenal chromaffin cells and their SA progenitors has not been analyzed. We now demonstrate that neutralization of endogenous TGF-beta1, -beta2 and -beta3 with a pan-anti-TGF-beta antibody in quail embryos during distinct time windows does not alter phenotypic development of chromaffin cells. In situ hybridizations revealed unaltered expression of neurofilament (NF-160), synaptotagmin I and neurexin I in adrenal glands. Likewise, the NF-associated antigen 3A10, and polyphosphorylated NF epitopes (RT 97) were unaltered. Most importantly, the typical ultrastructure of adrenal chromaffin cells including their large chromaffin secretory granules, a hallmark of the neuroendocrine phenotype, which distinguishes them from sympathetic neurons, was not affected. We therefore conclude that neutralization of endogenous TGF-beta influences chromaffin cell proliferation, but does not interfere with the development of the typical chromaffin cell phenotype.
This review intends to integrate recent data from the Drosophila olfactory system into an up-to-date account of the neuronal basis of olfaction. It focuses on (1) an electron microscopic study that mapped a large proportion of fruitfly olfactory sensilla, (2) large-scale electrophysiological recordings that allowed the classification of the odor response spectra of a complete set of sensilla, (3) the identification and expression patterns of candidate odorant receptors in the olfactory tissues, (4) central projections of neurons expressing a given odorant receptor, (5) an improved glomerular map of the olfactory center, and (6) attempts to exploit the larval olfactory system as a model of reduced cellular complexity. These studies find surprising parallels between the olfactory systems of flies and mammals, and thus underline the usefulness of the fruitfly as an olfactory model system. Both in Drosophila and in mammals, odorant receptor neurons appear to express only one type of receptor. Neurons expressing a given receptor are scattered in the olfactory tissues but their afferents converge onto a few target glomeruli only. This suggests that in both phyla, the periphery is represented in the brain as a chemotopic map. The major difference between mammals and fruitflies refers to the numbers of receptors, neurons, and glomeruli, which are largely reduced in the latter, and particularly in larvae. Yet, if activated in a combinatorial fashion, even this small set of elements could allow discrimination between a vast array of odorants.
Stimulation of parallel fibers in the cerebellar cortex triggers a transient calcium increase in Bergmann glial cells, a special form of astrocytes. Using patch-clamping and imaging techniques we have found that this form of neuron-glia interaction is mediated by nitric oxide (NO) since the response is blocked by the NO-synthase inhibitor N omega-nitro-l-arginine and mimicked by NO donors. None of the neurotransmitter receptors of Bergmann glia identified so far participates in or interferes with this signaling cascade. The NO-triggered increases in [Ca(2+)](i), as studied in Bergmann glial cells in the slice or in cultured astrocytes, are due to Ca(2+) influx and not to release from cytoplasmic stores. Thus, NO released from parallel fibers serves as a signaling substance to the neighboring glial elements.
Multiple system atrophy is an adult onset neurodegenerative disease, featuring parkinsonism, ataxia, and autonomic failure, in any combination. The condition is relentlessly progressive and responds poorly to treatment. Death occurs on average six to seven years after the onset of symptoms. No familial cases of multiple system atrophy have been reported, and no environmental factors have been robustly implicated as aetiological factors. However, analytical epidemiological studies are hampered because the condition is relatively rare. The discovery of the glial cytoplasmic inclusion (GCI) in 1989 helped to define multiple system atrophy as a clinicopathological entity, and drew attention to the prominent, if not primary, role played by the oligodendrocyte in the pathogenesis of the condition. Subsequently, GCIs were shown to be positive for alpha-synuclein, with immunostaining for this protein indicating that white matter pathology was more widespread than had previously been recognised. The presence of alpha-synuclein in GCIs provides a link with Parkinson's disease, dementia with Lewy bodies, and neurodegeneration with brain iron accumulation, type 1 (or Hallervorden-Spatz syndrome), in which alpha-synuclein is also found within Lewy bodies. This has led to the term &quot;synucleinopathy&quot; to embrace this group of conditions. The GCIs of multiple system atrophy contain a range of other cytoskeletal proteins. It is unknown how fibrillogenesis occurs, and whether there is primary oligodendrocytic dysfunction, which then disrupts the neurone/axon as a consequence of the glial pathology, or whether the oligodendrocytic changes merely represent an epiphenomenon. Further research into this devastating condition is urgently needed to improve our understanding of the pathogenesis, and also to produce new treatment approaches.
The most common neuropathy associated with diabetes mellitus is a distal sensory polyneuropathy. The relative importance of the direct effects of prolonged glycaemia on nervous tissue compared with indirect damage resulting from changes in blood vessels is not known. Although the importance of glycaemia is confirmed by a study showing that the incidence of neuropathy is greatly reduced by strict glycaemic control, many of the details of the deleterious effects of glycaemia on the peripheral nervous system (PNS) are not understood. These may be the result of direct damage to any of the cells in the PNS or the disruption of neuronal metabolism, axonal transport mechanisms, or repair capabilities; in addition, they may result from the effects of glycation on PNS connective tissue or a combination of some or all of the above mentioned mechanisms. The relative importance of these various mechanisms by which diabetes damages the PNS is a matter of conjecture. Therapeutic approaches targeting a specific mechanism such as those utilising aldose reductase inhibitors, or advanced glycation endproduct inhibitors have met with limited success. Clearly, it is difficult to design a treatment for diabetic neuropathy while its pathogenesis is still poorly understood.
Sex linked dystonia parkinsonism (XDP), also referred to as &quot;lubag&quot; in American literature, was described in 1975 occurring endemically in Panay, Philippines. It is an adult onset, sex linked, predominantly male, severe, progressive movement disorder with high penetrance and a high frequency of generalisation. The movement disorder is characterised by dystonic movements, usually starting in the 3rd or 4th decade, spreading to generalisation within two to five years. The dystonia coexists or is replaced by parkinsonism usually beyond the 10th year of illness. No treatment has been found to be effective. Neuroimaging shows caudate and putamenal atrophy in patients reaching the parkinsonian stage. Neuropathology reveals pronounced atrophy of the caudate and putamen, mostly in the cases with long standing illness. The sex linked pattern of inheritance has been established. Genetic studies have located the affected gene (DYT3) to Xq13.1, with one group mapping the XDP gene to a &lt; 350 kb locus in the DXS 7117-DXS 559 region.
High-affinity glycine transport in neurons and glial cells is a primary means of inactivating synaptic glycine. We have synthesized a potent selective inhibitor of glycine transporter 1 (GlyT1), and characterized its activity using a quail fibroblast cell line (QT6). The glycine transporters GlyT1A, GlyT1B, GlyT1C, and GlyT2 were stably expressed in QT6 cells. The transporters expressed in these cells exhibited appropriate characteristics as described previously for these genes: Na(+)/Cl(-) dependence, appropriate K(m) values for glycine uptake, and appropriate pharmacology, as defined in part by the ability of N-methyl glycine (sarcosine) to competitively inhibit glycine transport. Furthermore, the characteristics of the transporters in the cell lines recapitulate the characteristics of glycine transporters observed in tissue preparations. We developed a sarcosine derivative, (R)-(N-[3-(4'-fluorophenyl)-3-(4'-phenylphenoxy)propyl])sarcosine (ALX 5407), and examined its activity against the cloned glycine transporters. ALX 5407 completely inhibited glycine transport in the GlyT1 cells, with an IC(50) value of 3 nM, but had little or no activity at the human GlyT2 transporter, at other binding sites for glycine, or at other neurotransmitter transporters. The inhibition of glycine transport was essentially irreversible. ALX 5407 represents a novel tool in the investigation of N-methyl-D-aspartate-receptor function. This class of drug may lead to novel therapies in the treatment of schizophrenia.
The human beta1-adrenergic receptor (AR) and hamster beta2-AR transcripts can be post-transcriptionally regulated at the level of mRNA stability and undergo accelerated agonist-mediated degradation via interaction of their 3' untranslated regions (UTR) with RNA binding proteins. Using RNase protection assays, we have determined that chronic isoproterenol exposure of rat C6 glioma cells results in the accelerated reduction of beta1-AR mRNAs. To determine the role of cellular environment on the agonist-independent and agonist-mediated degradation of beta1-AR mRNAs, we transfected rat beta1-AR expression recombinants into both hamster DDT1MF2 cells and rat L6 cells. The rat beta1-AR mRNAs in the two transfectant cell pools retain longer agonist-independent half-lives than in the C6 environment and undergo accelerated degradation upon chronic agonist exposure. Using UV-cross-linking/immunoblot and immunoprecipitation analyses, we have determined that the rat beta1-AR 3' UTR recognizes a predominant M(r) 39,000 component, identified as the mammalian elav-like protein HuR, and several other minor components, including the heteronuclear protein hnRNP A1. HuR levels are more highly expressed in C6 cells than in DDT1MF2 and L6 cells and are induced after chronic isoproterenol treatment. Furthermore, C6 transfectants containing an HuR expression recombinant exhibit reduced beta1-AR mRNA half-lives that were statistically comparable with half-lives identified in isoproterenol-treated C6 cells. These results imply that HuR plays a potential role in the agonist-independent and agonist-mediated down-regulation of beta1-AR mRNAs.

Dopamine is vital for coordinated motion and for association learning linked to behavioral reinforcement. Here we show that the precise overlap of striatal dopaminergic and cholinergic fibers underlies potent control of dopamine release by ongoing nicotinic receptor activity. In mouse striatal slices, nicotinic antagonists or depletion of endogenous acetylcholine decreased evoked dopamine release by 90%. Nicotine at the concentration experienced by smokers also regulated dopamine release. In mutant mice lacking the beta2 nicotinic subunit, evoked dopamine release was dramatically suppressed, and those mice did not show cholinergic regulation of dopamine release. The results offer new perspectives when considering nicotine addiction and the high prevalence of smoking in schizophrenics.
All known eukaryotic organisms exhibit physiological and behavioral rhythms termed circadian rhythms that cycle with a near-24-hour period; in mammals, light is the most potent stimulus for entraining endogenous rhythms to the daily light cycle. Photic information is transmitted via the retinohypothalamic tract (RHT) to the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) in the hypothalamus, where circadian rhythms are generated, but the retinal photopigment that mediates circadian entrainment has remained elusive. Here we show that most retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) that project to the SCN express the photopigment melanopsin.


We study analytically a model of long-term synaptic plasticity where synaptic changes are triggered by presynaptic spikes, postsynaptic spikes, and the time differences between presynaptic and postsynaptic spikes. The changes due to correlated input and output spikes are quantified by means of a learning window. We show that plasticity can lead to an intrinsic stabilization of the mean firing rate of the postsynaptic neuron. Subtractive normalization of the synaptic weights (summed over all presynaptic inputs converging on a postsynaptic neuron) follows if, in addition, the mean input rates and the mean input correlations are identical at all synapses. If the integral over the learning window is positive, firing-rate stabilization requires a non-Hebbian component, whereas such a component is not needed if the integral of the learning window is negative. A negative integral corresponds to anti-Hebbian learning in a model with slowly varying firing rates. For spike-based learning, a strict distinction between Hebbian and anti-Hebbian rules is questionable since learning is driven by correlations on the timescale of the learning window. The correlations between presynaptic and postsynaptic firing are evaluated for a piecewise-linear Poisson model and for a noisy spiking neuron model with refractoriness. While a negative integral over the learning window leads to intrinsic rate stabilization, the positive part of the learning window picks up spatial and temporal correlations in the input.
Cisplatin is used in the treatment of ovarian and testicular cancer. Twenty percent of patients cannot be optimally treated because of sensory neurotoxicity. Human and animal studies demonstrate that the dorsal root ganglion neuron is the primary target of drug injury. We have previously demonstrated that cisplatin causes neuronal apoptosis in vitro. We now report a reproducible animal model of cell death induced by cisplatin. Drug was administered for 1 or 2 cycles of 5 days separated by 5 days. Total dose administered was 0, 5, 7.5, 10, or 15 mg/kg. Ganglia from 34 animals were processed and examined using in situ hybridization for cyclin D1 messenger RNA and digoxigenin coupled TUNEL staining. Overall, 2.9 +/- 3.9% of neurons were TUNEL positive in treated rats compared with 0.2 +/- 0.3% in controls (P &lt;.005). There was a strong positive correlation (r2 = 0.88; P = 0.018) between percentage of TUNEL stained DRG and cumulative dose of cisplatin. Two independent approaches to quantitation of in situ cyclin D1 hybridization were used; blinded grading by an observer and measurement of color density using digital image analysis. Both demonstrated dramatic upregulation of expression of cyclin D1 mRNA in treated compared with control rats. This demonstrates that apoptosis of neurons is preceded by aberrant reentry into G1 phase of the cell cycle in an animal model.
Mutations in the amyloid precursor protein (APP) gene result in elevated production and deposition of the 42 amino acid beta-amyloid (Abeta1-42) peptide and early-onset Alzheimer's disease (AD). To accurately examine the effect of the APP FAD mutations in vivo, we introduced yeast artificial chromosomes (YACs) containing the entire genomic copy of human APP harboring FAD mutations into transgenic mice. Our current results demonstrate that mutant APP YAC transgenic mice exhibit many features characteristic of human AD, including regional deposition of Abeta with preferential deposition of Abeta1-42, extensive neuritic abnormalities as evidenced by staining with APP, ubiquitin, neurofilament, and hyperphosphorylated tau antibodies, increased markers of inflammation, and the overlapping deposition of Abeta with apolipoproteins E and J. Our results also suggest that APP YAC transgenic mice possess unique pathological attributes when compared to other transgenic mouse models of AD that may reflect the experimental design of each model.
We investigated the relationship between changes in small intestinal motility and changes in blood pressure and heart rate in response to intestinal distension. Rats were maintained under stable anaesthesia with alpha-chloralose, and jejunal motility, blood pressure and heart rate were recorded. Pressure changes during propagated contractions of the circular muscle were recorded in the jejunum when the intraluminal pressure was maintained at 10 mmHg. Raising the pressure in 10 mmHg increments from 10 mmHg to 40 mmHg increased the frequency of propagated contractions from 0.30 +/- 0.06 min-1 (mean +/- SEM) to 1.29 +/- 0.09 per min. In contrast, amplitudes of contractions above baseline pressure decreased from 19.5 +/- 0.6 mmHg to 7.8 +/- 0.5 mmHg. Simultaneously, blood pressure and heart rate were both increased. Pretreatment of rats with capsaicin, or severing the mesenteric nerves acutely, prevented these cardiovascular responses, but did not influence the changes in propagated activity caused by distension. Propagated contractions were blocked by hexamethonium (10 mg kg-1, intravenously [i.v.]) and by local application of 2% lidocaine, but propulsion was unchanged by hyoscine (1 mg kg-1, i.v.). Phentolamine (1 mg kg-1, i.v.) increased the frequency of propagated contractions. The methods described in this work allow the effects of drugs on intrinsic intestinal reflexes to be distinguished from their effects on extra-intestinal, pseudoaffective reflexes. In addition, unlike other experiments using anaesthetized rats, blood pressure increased in response to distension, as it does in mammals that are not anaesthetized. The experiments demonstrate that the neural pathways for propagated contractions that rely on intrinsic nerve circuits, including intrinsic primary afferent neurones, and the neural pathways for extrinsic reflexes that signal pain or discomfort in the intestine, which involve capsaicin-sensitive spinal afferent neurones, are independent.
To validate a 13C-Spirulina platensis breath test for measurement of accelerated or delayed gastric emptying, we measured gastric emptying of egg containing 13C-S. platensis and 99mTc-sulphur colloid by breath 13 CO2 every 15 min over 3 h and scintigraphy every 15-30 min over 5 h in 57 healthy volunteers. Thirty-three received no treatment, 10 received erythromycin, and 14 atropine. A generalized linear regression model predicted half-emptying time by scintigraphy (t1/2S) from breath 13CO2 (t1/2B) data. Accuracy was assessed by standard deviation (SD) of differences between t1/2S and t1/2B and by receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves. Regression models using breath samples at baseline, and 45, 90, 105 and 120 min, predicted t1/2B (mean +/- SD) at 118 +/- 59 min, similar to t1/2S (118 +/- 67 min). Correlation between t1/2B and t1/2S was significant (r=0.88; P &lt; 0.0001). Differences between t1/2S and t1/2B were: 18-19.2 min for t1/2 &lt; 70-150 min, and 68.3 min for t1/2 &gt; 150 min. Breath test detected abnormal emptying with a sensitivity of 86% and specificity of 80%. Thus, the 13C-S. platensis test measures gastric emptying t1/2 for solids, which is accelerated or delayed to mimic a range of conditions from dumping syndrome to severe gastroparesis, with high sensitivity and specificity. Additional breath samples are needed to increase sensitivity in detecting accelerated gastric emptying.
Three-dimensional single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) imaging allows noninvasive measurement of human postprandial gastric accommodation. The aim of this study was to determine whether 99mTCO4-SPECT demonstrates effects on pre- and postprandial gastric volumes of intravenous (i.v.) erythromycin lactobionate and sublingual isosorbide dinitrate, as predicted from previous literature. Twenty volunteers received no medication (controls), while 12 were randomized to either i.v. erythromycin 2 mg kg-1 over 20 min, or 10 mg sublingual isosorbide. After a 10-min preprandial SPECT measurement, a standard 300-mL, 300-kcal liquid meal was ingested, followed by a 20-min postprandial measurement. Gastric images were reconstructed from transaxial images and total volume was measured using the Analyseeth software system. Fasting gastric volume was greater with isosorbide [223 +/- 14 (SE) mL vs. 174 +/- 9 mL, control; P &lt; 0.05], and postprandial volume was lower with erythromycin [393 +/- 27 mL vs. 582 +/- 17 mL, control; P &lt; 0.05]. The ratio of postprandial over fasting volume and mean difference between pre- and postprandial volumes were significantly lower in both drug groups compared to controls. We conclude that 99mTCO4-SPECT imaging is able to semiquantitatively demonstrate pharmacological modulation of fasting gastric volume and postprandial accommodation in humans.
Flat sheet preparations of guinea-pig ileum were stretched circumferentially and the propagation of circular muscle contractions along the preparation was investigated. Slow stretch, at 100 microm s-1, of a 50-mm long flat sheet of intestine, evoked circular muscle contraction orally, which propagated, without decrement, for up to 30 mm. This occurred despite circular muscle shortening being prevented, and in the absence of propulsion of contents. Thus, propagation in this flat sheet preparation could not explained on the basis of neuro-mechanical interactions, as previously proposed. Irrespective of the length of preparations, contraction amplitude decreased significantly in the most aboral 10-15 mm of intestine. This was not due to descending inhibitory pathways, but was associated with interruption of ascending excitatory pathways near the aboral end. Slow waves were not detected in circular muscle cells in any preparation (n=8). Smooth muscle action potentials evoked in circular muscle cells, in the presence of tetrodotoxin (TTX, 0.6 micromol L-1), did not propagate for more than 1 mm in the longitudinal axis. Propagation of circular muscle activity, evoked by slow stretch of flat sheet preparations, reveals the presence of a mechanism other than myogenic spread or the neuro-mechanical interactions previously proposed to account for propagation; the nature of this mechanism remains to be determined.
Recent neurocognitive studies show that perception and execution of actions are intimately linked. The mere observation of an action seems to evoke a tendency to execute that action. Since such imitative response tendencies are not adaptive in many everyday situations imitative response tendencies usually have to be inhibited. These inhibitory processes have never been investigated using brain imaging techniques. Former work on response inhibition and interference control has focused on paradigms such as the Stroop task or the go/no-go task. We have carried out an event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging study in order to investigate the cortical mechanisms underlying the inhibition of imitative responses. The experiment employs a simple response task in which subjects were instructed to execute predefined finger movements (tapping or lifting of the index finger) in response to an observed congruent or incongruent finger movement (tapping or lifting). A comparison of brain activation in incongruent and congruent trials revealed strong activation in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (middle frontal gyrus) and activation in the right frontopolar cortex and the right anterior parietal cortex, as well as in the precuneus. These results support the assumption of prefrontal involvement in response inhibition and extend this assumption to a &quot;new&quot; class of prepotent responses, namely, to imitative actions.
Performance monitoring can be implemented in the brain by two possible systems, one monitoring for response competition or one detecting errors. Two current models of performance monitoring have different views on these monitoring subsystems. While the error detection model proposes a specific error detection system, the response competition model denies the necessity of a specific error detector and favors a more general unitary system evaluating response conflict. Both models suggest that the frontomedian wall in the vicinity of the anterior cingulate sulcus plays an important role in performance monitoring. The present study investigates the hemodynamic and electrophysiological correlates of response competition and error processing. Twelve young healthy participants performed a speeded, modified flanker task, while fMRI signals and ERPs were measured in separate sessions. The event-related fMRI shows that networks involving the frontomedian wall are activated during both response competition and error processing. However, an anatomical dissociation was found: while error processing preferentially activates the human homologue of the cingulate motor area (CMA, BA 24c') in the depth of the anterior cingulate sulcus, response competition is accompanied by activation of the pre-SMA and mesial BA 8. The ERP waveforms for erroneous trials exhibit a large error-related negativity, which is most likely generated in the CMA. These results suggest that the CMA plays a major role in error processing. Further fMRI activations in the lateral prefrontal and primary motor cortex are discussed with respect to performance monitoring and its influence on task set reconfiguration.
The feasibility of recording event-related potentials (ERP) during functional MRI (fMRI) scanning using higher level cognitive stimuli was studied. Using responses to illusory figures in a visual oddball task, evoked potentials were obtained with their expected configurations and latencies. A rapid stimulation scheme using randomly varied trial lengths was employed, and class-wise characteristics of the hemodynamic response were obtained by a nonlinear analysis of the fMRI time series. Implications and limitations of conducting combined ERP-fMRI experiments using higher level cognitive stimuli are discussed. EEG/fMRI results revealed a sequential activation of striate and extrastriate occipital cortex along the ventral path of object processing for Kanizsa figures. Interestingly, Kanizsa figures activated the human motion area MT. Targets resulted in activations of frontal and parietal cortex which were not activated for standard stimuli.
This paper summarizes five major themes of discussion stemming from a recent workshop at the University of Toronto. The focus of the workshop was whether the phenomenology of cognition has a direct translation to the biological processes of the brain. The study of this translation is the goal of cognitive neuroscience. The themes were: (1) the influence of context on the understanding of brain function, in which regional activity may have different functional relevance depending on activity in the rest of the brain; (2) the merger of anatomy and function, emphasizing how interfacing at the systems level can have the potential to aid in the understanding of how anatomy constrains function; (3) the development of mathematical measures that take advantage of organizing principles of the nervous system; (4) the observation that the relation between &quot;top-down&quot; and &quot;bottom-up&quot; both neurally and conceptually could be better appreciated through a more principled mathematical approach; and (5) a central role for large-scale neural modeling to bridge basic neurophysiology and anatomy. Despite the consensus on these themes, there are several challenges for the field. Significant obstacles arise from the multidisciplinary nature of cognitive neuroscience, in which terms do not mean the same thing across disciplines (e.g., networks and systems). The imprecision of explanations for cognitive neuroscience data was also seen as a significant problem, suggesting that more principled attempts at explicit model specifications and prediction will be necessary for the field to develop.
Based on the evidence that hyperglycaemia aggravates ischaemic cerebral injury, it has been suggested that blood glucose levels be kept within 200 mg/dL during intracranial neurosurgery. Hypoglycaemia, however, can be a serious problem if glucose-containing solutions are avoided during the first four hours, as suggested in some studies. In order to explore the possibility of administering glucose in moderation so that the blood glucose levels are within acceptable limits, but at the same time the risk of hyoglycaemia is eliminated, we compared two intraoperative fluid regimens. Of the 52 neurosurgical patients studied, 32 patients received alternately 500 ml of 5% dextrose in normal saline and Ringer's lactate (DNS/RL Group) and 18 patients received alternately 500 ml of Ringer's lactate and normal saline (RL/NS Group). Blood glucose concentrations were determined at the end of each unit of fluid, until the patient received 4 units of fluid. In the DNS/RL group, blood glucose values peaked with the administration of each unit of DNS and tended to return towards the baseline with the subsequent RL, but remained higher than the previous control value. In the RL/NS group, there was a progressive increase in blood glucose values throughout the study period, but the increase was not statistically significant. The blood glucose levels were significantly different between the two groups after each unit of fluid except at the end of the fourth unit. Two patients in the RL/NS group had hypoglycaemia. In conclusion, the DNS/RL regimen maintains blood glucose levels within acceptable limits while avoiding the risk of hyperglycaemia. Withholding glucose completely, lowers blood glucose levels, but carries a risk of hypoglycaemia in some patients.
Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) is increasingly being reported over the last three decades as a result of heightened awareness of the disease. Various studies have reported annual incidence of 0.5-1.5 cases of CJD per million of general population. In India, the disease is still under reported. Over the period spanning from 1968-1997, National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS), Bangalore recorded 69 cases of CJD from different parts of India in the CJD registry. This paper describes the clinical experience with cases of CJD managed at the Department of Neurology, G.B. Pant Hospital, New Delhi from 1990-1998. In this series, the mean age of the patients was 53.80 (+/- 7.32) years and there were 5 females and 5 males. Myoclonus was present in all the cases and abnormal behaviour with or without other features was the presenting complaint in 7 of the 10 patients, while one patient of CJD had cerebellar ataxia as the presenting feature. One patient with occipital variant of CJD presented with acute onset cortical blindness and myoclonic jerks. One of the patients had acute psychosis precipitated by emotional stress at the onset. Extrapyramidal features were noted in 7 of the 10 patients before death. The mean duration of symptoms from the onset of disease to death was 6.6 (+/- 6.11) months. Classical EEG changes were observed in all the patients, except in one possible case of occipital variant of CJD, where we did not have access to EEG record. Brain biopsy could be undertaken in 3 patients, and in 2 patients the features of subacute spongiform encephalopathy (SSE) were noted.
The increased sensitivity of neuroimaging techniques has enabled the more frequent diagnosis of unruptured aneurysms. Because the most devastating complication of an unruptured aneurysm is subarachnoid hemorrhage, it has been considered desirable to treat these aneurysms before they rupture. However, the optimal treatment strategy for patients with unruptured aneurysms remains controversial. The management decision requires knowledge of the natural history and an accurate assessment of the risks related to various treatment options. On December 10, 1998 the New England Journal of Medicine published an article by the International Study of Unruptured Intracranial Aneurysms Investigators. The study retrospectively assessed the natural history of unruptured aneurysms in 1449 patients; in addition, treatment-related mortality and morbidity were examined in a prospective cohort of 1172 patients. The major finding was that the rate of rupture for aneurysms smaller than 10 mm in diameter in patients with no history of subarachnoid hemorrhage was 0.05% per year, and that the mortality and morbidity associated with surgery greatly exceeded the risk of rupture in such patients. This report has generated tremendous controversy in the treatment of unruptured aneurysms and has influenced our decision making. The results of this study are critically analyzed and potential flaws presented. To develop recommendations for treatment, the literature was reviewed. The conclusion of this search is that there is insufficient evidence to recommend a standard of management. Therapeutic guidelines are provided, particularly for patients with small incidental aneurysms and no history of subarachnoid hemorrhage.
Although radiation injuries to the brain are well documented, immediate early histological changes in the brain remain to be defined. The present study characterizes glial injury provoked in adult rat white matter within 24 h after a single irradiation of the whole brain (10 or 20 Gray). Irradiated brains were histologically and histochemically analyzed. TUNEL-positive cells exhibiting apoptotic morphology were counted in five representative regions of the white matter. Glial cell death was further evaluated by glial cell density 24 h after irradiation, which induced both dose (p &lt; 0.0001)- and time- (p &lt; 0.0001) dependent apoptosis in these cells. The overall apoptotic rate in the white matter peaked within 8 h after irradiation. Total glial cell density decreased significantly in the white matter 24 h after irradiation. TUNEL-positive cells were immunohistochemically negative for GFAP, a marker for astrocytes, but positive for CNP, a marker for oligodendrocytes. The apoptotic rate was highest in the external capsule (p &lt; 0.0001), followed by the fimbria and genu of the corpus callosum (p &lt; 0.0001). The rates were lowest in the internal capsule and cerebellum. These data indicated that brain irradiation induces rapid apoptotic depletion of the oligodendroglial population, which may participate in the development of radiation-induced pathological conditions.
Electroencephalography (EEG) has a long history in clinical evaluations of cerebrovascular disease. Distinct EEG abnormalities, such as increased slow delta activity, voltage depression and epileptiform discharge, have been identified in stroke patients. However, preclinical use of EEG analysis of cerebral ischaemia is less documented. We report a new rat model of EEG topographic mapping during permanent and transient middle cerebral artery occlusion. Ten EEG electrodes were implanted on the rat skull, symmetrically covering the cortical regions of two hemispheres. Monopolar EEG recordings were acquired from each animal at multiple time points during the initial 24 h, and again once daily for 7 days. Traditional EEG examinations, quantitative EEG (qEEG) spectral analysis and topographic EEG mapping were employed for comprehensive data analyses. Several distinct spatiotemporal EEG abnormalities were identified in the ischaemic rat brain. In the ipsilateral hemisphere, pronounced increase in delta activity was observed in each recorded area within 24 h of injury. While sharp waves and spike complexes dominated the parietal region, a nearly isoelectric EEG state was seen in the temporal region. After 48 h, spontaneous, albeit incomplete, recovery of EEG activities developed in all rats. Reperfusion appeared to promote delta and alpha recovery more efficiently. The contralateral EEG changes were also recorded in two phases: an acute moderate increase in delta activities with intermittent rhythmic activities, followed by a delayed and significant increase in beta activities across the hemisphere. The similarities of rat qEEG profiles identified in this study to that of stroke patients and the application of topographic mapping broaden our research technology for preclinical experimental studies of brain injury.
Data from experimental studies indicate that acute inflammation contributes to ischaemic brain damage. Tethering of neutrophils to brain endothelium is mediated by selectins, and subsequent adhesion and migration by endothelial intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) and neutrophil CD18. In experimental studies of ischaemia-reperfusion injury, brain damage has been ameliorated by administration of antibodies to these adhesion molecules. We studied the expression of P-selectin and ICAM-1 in sections of brain from patients who had experienced cardiac arrest or focal brain infarction, and who died 3.5 h to 9 days later. Endothelial immunopositivity for both adhesion molecules was maximal at about 2-3 days then declined. Between 1 day and 3 days, P-selectin was also detected on platelets in blood vessels within infarcted tissue. Within infarcts, but not sections of brain from cardiac arrest patients, P-selectin and ICAM-1 were again detectable at 1 week, when hyperplastic endothelial cells were labelled in capillaries in and immediately adjacent to the infarcted tissue. The finding that P-selectin and ICAM-1 are upregulated within focally infarcted brain tissue supports the concept that blocking neutrophil adhesion may be of benefit in treating atherothrombotic strokes in man.
This work describes the in vivo expression and distribution of glioma-associated gangliosides (GD3, GM2, 3'-isoLM1) in a novel human brain tumour nude rat xenograft model. In this model, the tumours, which are established directly from human glioblastoma biopsies, show extensive infiltrative growth within the rat brain. This model therefore provides an opportunity to study ganglioside expression not only within the macroscopic tumour, but also in brain areas with tumour cell infiltration. The ganglioside expression was studied by confocal microscopy of immunostained brain sections using antiganglioside monoclonal antibodies. Xenografts from four human glioblastoma multiformes were established in rats and the brains removed after 3-4 months. Ganglioside GD3 was expressed in the tumour parenchyma while ganglioside 3'-isoLM1 was more abundantly expressed in the periphery of the tumour associated with areas of tumour cell invasion. GM2 expression was only seen in one tumour, where it was located within the main tumour mass. Double staining with a pan antihuman monoclonal antibody (3B4) and the antiganglioside monoclonal antibodies confirmed that the ganglioside expression was associated with tumour cells. This work supports the concept of different biological roles for individual gangliosides and indicates that antibodies or ligands directed against GD3 and 3'-isoLM1 might be complementary when applied in the treatment of human glioblastomas.
After the discovery of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP), we acquired a good animal model of Parkinson's disease. The extraordinary recent growth in knowledge using MPTP parkinsonism has fostered increased understanding of Parkinson's disease. In the present paper, the discovery of MPTP and the biochemical, pathological, and clinical findings of MPTP parkinsonism are first reviewed briefly. Next, using MPTP parkinsonism, unresolved issuses such as the apoptosis of MPTP, levodopa toxicity, and neuroprotective effects of monoamine oxidase inhibitors or dopamine agonists are discussed. Finally, environmental factors such as the etiology of Parkinson's disease are examined. Some genetic factors that lead to familial Parkinson's disease have recently been reported, but most cases of Parkinson's disease are sporadic. Recent epidemiological evidence emphasizes an etiological relation of 18th and 19th century industrialization to Parkinson's disease. Man-made toxins, such as industrial chemicals and herbicides/pesticides, have been suggested to increase the risk of developing Parkinson's disease. I would like to highlight the significance of re-examination of environmental factors in the etiology of Parkinson's disease.
We describe two siblings, a girl and a boy, aged 4 and 2 years and 10 months respectively, born from non-consanguineous parents,with diffuse polymicrogyria, lower limb deformities, infantile spasms and developmental delay. Spasms had a good outcome under antiepileptic drug treatment. Clinical and imaging features were of identical severity in both siblings. Muscle biopsy,creatine kinase, metabolic investigations and chromosomal analysis were normal. This combination of anatomo-clinical features and their occurrence in siblings of both sexes suggests an autosomal recessive malformation syndrome.
Suicide and depression are associated with reduced serotonergic neurotransmission. In suicides, there is a reduction in serotonin transporter (SERT) sites and an increase in postsynaptic 5-HT(1A) receptors in localized regions of the prefrontal cortex. In depression, there is a diffuse decrease in SERT binding throughout the dorsoventral extent of the prefrontal cortex. Serotonergic innervation of the prefrontal cortex arises predominantly from neurons in the brainstem dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN). We, therefore, examined postmortem SERT binding and mRNA expression, as well as 5-HT(1A) autoreceptor binding in the DRN of 10 matched pairs of controls and depressed suicide victims. The concentration of SERT sites, SERT mRNA, and 5-HT(1A) binding was not different between controls and suicides (p &gt;.05). In the DRN of suicides, the volume of tissue defined by 5-HT(1A) binding was 40% smaller than controls. An index of the total number of 5-HT(1A) receptors (receptor binding x volume of receptor distribution) was 43.3% lower in the DRN of suicides, compared with controls. The suicide group had 54% fewer DRN neurons expressing SERT mRNA compared with controls. In the serotonin neurons that expressed the SERT gene, expression per neuron was greater in suicides. Less total 5-HT(1A) and SERT binding is consistent with results of in vivo studies in depression. Less feedback inhibition of serotonin DRN firing via 5-HT(1A) autoreceptors and enhancement of serotonin action due to less uptake of serotonin, is consistent with compensatory changes in response to hypofunction in depressed suicides.
The blockade of serotonin (5-HT) and norepinephrine (NE) transporters in vitro and in vivo by the dual 5-HT/NE reuptake inhibitors duloxetine and venlafaxine was compared. Duloxetine inhibited binding to the human NE and 5-HT transporters with K(i) values of 7.5 and 0.8 nM, respectively, and with a K(i) ratio of 9. Venlafaxine inhibited binding to the human NE and 5-HT transporters with K(i) values of 2480 and 82 nM, respectively, and with a K(i) ratio of 30. Duloxetine inhibited ex vivo binding to rat 5-HT transporters and NE transporters with ED(50) values of 0.03 and 0.7 mg/kg, respectively, whereas venlafaxine had ED(50) values of 2 and 54 mg/kg, respectively. The depletion of rat brain 5-HT by p-chloramphetamine and depletion of rat hypothalamic NE by 6-hydroxydopamine was blocked by duloxetine with ED(50) values of 2.3 and 12 mg/kg, respectively. Venlafaxine had ED(50) values of 5.9 and 94 mg/kg for blocking p-chloramphetamine- and 6-hydroxydopamine-induced monoamine depletion, respectively. Thus, duloxetine more potently blocks 5-HT and NE transporters in vitro and in vivo than venlafaxine.
St. John's wort is widely used as an herbal remedy for depression. Although its mechanism of action remains unknown, some evidence suggests that St. John's wort might act via brain serotonin (e.g., as a serotonin reuptake inhibitor). To determine whether St. John's wort affects the central serotonergic system, we monitored the discharge rate of serotonin-containing neurons in the dorsal raphe nucleus of awake cats following systemic administration of two clinical preparations of St. John's wort, Jarsin 300 (15-600 mg/kg, p.o.) and Hyperforat (0.5-4.0 ml, i.v.). Both preparations were found to have no effect on neuronal activity. This contrasts sharply with the action of fluoxetine and sertraline (2 mg/kg, p.o.), two selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), which markedly depressed neuronal activity by increasing the synaptic availability of serotonin at inhibitory somatodendritic 5-HT(1A) autoreceptors. The failure of St. John's wort to depress neuronal activity cannot be attributed to an impairment of the 5-HT(1A) autoreceptor mechanism, since pretreatment with Jarsin 300 (300 mg/kg, p.o.) did not alter the responsiveness of serotonergic neurons to the 5-HT(1A) agonist 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin (8-OH-DPAT) (10 microg/kg, i.v.). Overall, these findings indicate that the mode of action of St. John's wort is different from that of conventional antidepressant drugs, which elevate brain serotonin and evoke negative feedback control of serotonergic neurons.
Over the past three decades, research exploring potential neuronal replacement therapies have focused on replacing lost neurons by transplanting cells or grafting tissue into diseased regions of the brain. Over most of the past century of modern neuroscience, it was thought that the adult brain was completely incapable of generating new neurons. However, in the last decade, the development of new techniques has resulted in an explosion of new research showing that neurogenesis, the birth of new neurons, normally occurs in two limited and specific regions of the adult mammalian brain, and that there are significant numbers of multipotent neural precursors in many parts of the adult mammalian brain. Recent findings from our lab demonstrate that it is possible to induce neurogenesis de novo in the adult mammalian brain, particularly in the neocortex where it does not normally occur, and that it may become possible to manipulate endogenous multipotent precursors in situ to replace lost or damaged neurons. Elucidation of the relevant molecular controls may allow the development of neuronal replacement therapies for neurodegenerative disease and other CNS injuries that do not require transplantation of exogenous cells.

In nature, animals are exposed to a wide range of threats and dangers with predators being amongst the more prominent and intensely studied of these. The responses of prey to predators and various predator avoidance and antipredator behaviors have been extensively evaluated from ecological and ethological perspectives and more recent ethopharmacological and neuroscience approaches. Unfortunately, there has been relatively little interchange between the ecological-ethological and neuroscience areas with the latter often using responses to predators just simply as another 'model' system. There is, however, now a growing realization that integrative approaches incorporating ecological, evolutionary and neurobiological explanations are required for the understanding of behavior and its functions. This necessitates an incorporation of ecological and ethological concepts and validity with neuroscience approaches to the analysis of antipredator responses and defensive behavior. A number of selected ecological approaches that are used for the investigation of predator avoidance mechanisms and antipredator defensive behavior patterns are briefly reviewed here. These include examinations of how predation risk and its variation affect decision making in animals and how learning affects these responses. The trade-offs that are involved, how the risk of predation affects decisions concerning foraging behavior, mating and reproduction, as well as how varying levels of risk affect decisions relative to the type of defensive mechanisms utilized are briefly outlined. The utility of these approaches and their relevance to the design and interpretation of various neuroscience studies is addressed here.
The study of olfactory lateralization processes in humans has given rise to many publications, but the resulting data have not been homogeneous. Sensorial cerebral asymmetry depends on several factors (nature of task, characteristics of subjects, etc.) and could also depend on the quality of the stimulus, especially in olfaction. This field appears to be widely unexplored and the quality of odor is a complex property. The aim of this study was to investigate variations in psychophysiological measurements (bilateral electrodermal recordings) related to the quality of odors. Electrodermal asymmetries were used as a function of differential hemispheric activation. Two major characteristics of odor were explored, the hedonic valence (pleasant/unpleasant) and the trigeminal component (irritant/non-irritant). The results obtained in a sample of 30 right-handed subjects (15 males and 15 females) showed a predominance of the right hemisphere in the treatment of olfactory information not depending on the quality of odor, except the trigeminal-nerve activation.
Using near-infrared spectroscopy, we studied cerebral hemodynamic responses to electric median nerve stimulation in ten subjects. The recordings were conducted by optical fibers placed over the left scalp. Electric stimuli were delivered to contra- and ipsilateral median nerves, respectively. Hemodynamic responses in the secondary somatosensory cortex were observed following each median nerve stimulation, except for three drowsy subjects. The contralateral stimulation tended to induce a larger response. The degree of change in oxygenated hemoglobin was hardly related to stimulus intensities, and was augmented by attention. Four subjects showed long-lasting responses throughout the stimulus periods, while three other subjects revealed transient responses. Thus, taking account of the temporal activation patterns is necessary for proper interpretation of the hemodynamic response following electric nerve stimulation.
Target tissues contribute to the phenotype and function of sensory neurons. Due to lack of appropriate markers for trkA expressing sensory axons and terminals, the detailed peripheral projection of these neurons is unclear. In this study, the peripheral projections of trkA immunoreactive neurons are characterized using the combined techniques of immunohistochemistry and retrograde tracing. We found approximately 65% of all neurons projecting to the adrenal gland and kidney are trkA immunoreactive, whereas 6, 14 and 37% of neurons innervating whisker follicle, epidermis and footpad, respectively, are immunoreactive for trkA. A low proportion of trkA immunoreactive neurons innervating epidermis indicates that the majority of sensory neurons innervating epidermis are independent of trkA signalling for their normal function. We further investigated whether these epidermal projecting neurons can bind isolectin IB4. We found approximately 70% of all neurons innervating epidermis are IB4 binding neurons, but they did not express trkA. Thus, NGF sensitive neurons primarily project to viscera but not epidermis or other skin structures, whereas IB-4 positive neurons primarily project to epidermis in the adult rat.
It has been proposed that language is more strongly lateralized in males than in females. Recent imaging studies, however, have yielded a variety of seemingly contradictory observations. Here, we categorize these observations into three groups: (1) studies that employed sub-lexical tasks applicable to nonwords, which found sex-differences in the anterior language areas; (2) studies that employed tasks applicable to real individual words, which reported lateralized activation in both sexes (and thus no sex-differences); and (3) studies that employed passive listening to stories with a global language structure, which found clear sex-differences in the posterior language areas. We suggest that these differences in observations are explained, at least in part, by the amount of time demanded relative to the interhemispheric conduction delay.

Gene delivery to the nervous system represents perhaps the ultimate challenge of gene therapy in view of the complexity of this system, the wide variety of intractable neurological diseases, and the need to deliver the gene to nondividing cells. Although a variety of systems for such gene delivery are under development, herpes simplex virus has unique advantages in terms of its large genome size and its ability to naturally enter a latent state in neuronal cells. Considerable progress has been made in the effective disablement of this virus while retaining its ability to deliver genes and in producing long-term expression of the foreign gene. It is likely that these viruses may ultimately be of use in human gene therapy procedures for otherwise intractable neurological diseases such as Parkinson's disease.
Through the use of genetically amenable model systems, we have begun to form a relatively clear idea as to the molecular mechanisms that constitute a functioning circadian clock. It is now known that mechanisms that underlie overt rhythms are conserved across species. At the basic core of the clock lies a transcriptional/translational feedback loop. The primary components of this loop are called clock genes and are similar for the fruit fly, Drosophila melanogaster, and mammalian systems. However, many questions regarding their regulation remain unanswered. In addition to their localization in brain areas associated with pacemaking function, clock genes are also found in peripheral tissues where their presence may confer circadian regulation upon local, tissue-specific functions. The light-dark cycle is the primary environmental stimulus for the synchronization of the circadian clock. In Drosophila, light is known to induce the degradation of a clock component resulting in the synchronization of the core clock mechanism. Photic signals are transmitted to the clock, at least in part, by the blue light photoreceptor cryptochrome. Although expression of several mammalian clock gene products is also altered in response to light, the photoreceptor(s) involved have not yet been defined.

PAUL BROCA WAS an icon of neuroscience and neurosurgery who also happened to be intrigued by trepanned skulls. His anthropological work established that, thousands of years ago, individuals not only trepanned skulls but also successfully performed these operations on living persons. After first commenting on a pre-Columbian Peruvian skull in 1867 (the first case of trepanning on a living person widely recognized as such), he turned to even older trepanned skulls found on French soil. In the 1870s, he theorized that the procedure originated as a means to treat convulsions in infants. As he saw it, Neolithic man attributed such convulsions to evil spirits, for which trepanation provided a ready means of escape. Because simple infantile convulsions resolve on their own, the practice would have seemed successful, and therefore it would have been propagated and expanded by later generations. Broca's theory skillfully integrated his anthropological and medical knowledge and helped to create the exciting environment in which scientists pondered what Neolithic and primitive people really knew regarding the brain and surgery.





This study was designed to evaluate the DNA damaging effects of nitric oxide and to determine whether the endogenous generation of nitric oxide at low levels in the cell exerts a protective effect against this damage. Damage to mitochondrial and nuclear DNA in normal human epidermal keratinocytes (NHEK) was assessed after treatment of these cells with varying concentrations of S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine, which decomposes to release nitric oxide. The results showed that mitochondrial DNA was more vulnerable to nitric oxide-induced damage than was a similarly sized fragment of the beta-globin gene. To evaluate the effects on DNA damage by pretreatment of cells with low-levels of nitric oxide, NHEK cells were treated with the prodrug V-PYRRO/NO. This agent is metabolized inside these cells and releases small quantities of nitric oxide. The cells then were exposed to damaging amounts of nitric oxide produced by S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine. The results of these studies showed that pretreatment of NHEK cells with V-PYRRO/NO attenuated the mtDNA damage and loss of cell viability produced by exposure to S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine.
Neurological involvement in multiple endocrine neoplasia (MEN) syndrome is uncommon. Notalgia paresthetica (pruritus localized in an area between D2 and D6 dermatomes) is the neurological symptom more frequently described in patients with MEN 2A. The authors report the unusual case of a MEN 2A patient with a brain metastasis from a pheochromocytoma.

Although exogenous orexin can induce feeding, reports of increased orexin gene expression after caloric manipulations have been inconsistent. We hypothesized that orexin gene expression is increased only by extreme negative energy balance challenges. We measured hypothalamic orexin and NPY mRNA by in situ hybridization and orexin-A immunoreactivity in rats after food deprivation, streptozotocin-induced diabetes, and combined deprivation and diabetes. Neither food deprivation, nor diabetes, nor the combination affected orexin mRNA levels, although orexin-A immunoreactivity was increased by diabetes. NPY mRNA levels were increased by either treatment. These results suggest that increased orexin gene expression is not a consistent correlate of negative energy balance challenges.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD) are two prevalent neurodegenerative disorders for which the causes are unknown, except in rare familial cases. Several changes in neuropeptide levels as measured by radioimmunoassay (RIA) have been observed in these illnesses. Somatostatin (SOM) levels in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) are consistently decreased in AD and FTD. Neuropeptide Y (NPY) levels are decreased in AD, but normal in FTD. Galanin (GAL) levels increase with the duration of illness in AD patients. The majority of studies of neuropeptides in CSF have not been verified by HPLC. The observed decrease in a neuropeptide level as measured by RIA may therefore reflect an altered synthesis or extracellular processing, resulting in neuropeptide fragments that may or may not be detected by RIA. Matrix-assisted laser desorption time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-MS) has been shown to be a powerful technique in the analysis of biological materials without any pre-treatment, by detecting peptides and proteins at a specific mass-to-charge (m/z) ratio. We studied the processing of the neuropeptides NPY, NPY, SOM and GAL in the cerebrospinal fluid of patients with AD (n = 3), FTD (n = 3) and controls (n = 2) using MALDI-MS. We found that considerable inter-individual variability exists in the rate of neuropeptide metabolism in CSF, as well as the number of peptide fragments formed. Certain patients showed differences in the processing of specific neuropeptides, relative to other patients and controls. This analysis of the metabolic processing of neuropeptides in CSF yielded a large amount of data for each individual studied. Further studies are required to determine the changes in neuropeptide processing that can be associated with AD and FTD. With further investigations using MALDI-MS analysis, it may be possible to identify a neuropeptide fragment or processing enzyme that can be correlated to these disease states.
EEP is a tripeptide structurally similar to thyrotropin releasing hormone (TRH) and, like TRH, it is found in the mammalian brain. TRH has been found to increase in brain regions after seizures and to be neuroprotective. EEP has also been shown to increase in brain regions following seizure activity. We therefore sought to determine whether the similarities between these two peptides might be extended to include neuroprotection. Both TRH and EEP were found to be neuroprotective in vitro against an excitotoxic insult. Interestingly, the two tripeptides appeared to have different mechanisms of action. Even though EEP was as much as four times more neuroprotective than TRH, its ability to reduce glutamate-stimulated increases in intraneuronal Ca(2+) was about half that of TRH.
From elementary through high school, Japanese children are required to memorize a large number of distinct visual forms, i.e., roughly 2,000 Chinese characters, and tremendous effort is expended in learning to read and write them. We hypothesized that early training in memorizing Chinese characters and the use of these characters in daily life shapes brain development and facilitates recall of visual forms in general, including geometrical figures in visual recall tests. To demonstrate whether the learning of Chinese character is correlated with specific aspects of memory, we administered the Wechsler Memory Scale-Revised (WMS-R) to a representative sample of the normal Japanese population (316 persons, 100% Japanese) and compared their scores with data previously obtained from a representative sample of the normal U.S. population (316 persons, 82.5% Caucasian). The WMS-R has 12 memory subtests, each measuring a different aspect of memory and includes two visual recall subtests (Visual Reproduction I and II). Compared to the Americans, the Japanese group obtained significantly higher scores on these two visual recall subtests in each of the six age groups tested (16 to 74 years old). Further, the scores of Japanese on the two visual recall subtests did not decline across age groups as much as scores for the U.S. group. Japanese also scored significantly higher on the Visual Memory Span subtest in three age groups.
Nicotine has been reported to reduce anxiety in humans and in a number of animal tests. In the social interaction test of anxiety, administration of low doses of nicotine into the dorsal raph nucleus (DRN) increases the time spent in social interaction without producing accompanying changes in locomotor activity, suggesting that nicotine acts specifically to reduce anxiety in this brain region. The present study examined the ability of the high-affinity competitive nicotinic receptor antagonist dihydro-beta-erythroidine hydrobromide (DH beta E) to antagonise the anxiolytic effect of nicotine following intra-DRN infusion using the social interaction test. The increase in social interaction observed after administration of nicotine (5 ng) into the DRN was completely reversed by coadministration of 100 ng DH beta E. DH beta E (100 ng), when administered alone into the DRN, did not modify the time spent in social interaction. However, it did significantly increase locomotor activity, and this effect was not antagonised by coadministration of nicotine (5 ng) into the DRN. Because of the pharmacological profile of DH beta E, our results suggest that the anxiolytic effect of nicotine in the DRN is mediated by the alpha 4 beta 2 nicotinic receptor subtype.
In developed countries, tobacco use is estimated to be the largest single cause of premature death [Lancet 339 (1992) 1268]. Nicotine is the main addictive component of tobacco that motivates continued use despite the harmful effects. Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) are widely distributed throughout the mammalian central nervous system (CNS), where they normally respond to acetylcholine (ACh) and modulate neuronal excitability and synaptic communication. Nicotinic receptors are structurally diverse and have varied roles. Presynaptic and preterminal nAChRs enhance neurotransmitter release. Postsynaptic and somal nAChRs mediate a small proportion of fast excitatory transmission and modulate cytoplasmic second messenger systems. Although the impact of nicotine obtained from tobacco is not completely understood, a portion of nicotine's addictive power is attributable to actions upon the dopaminergic systems, which normally help to reinforce rewarding behaviors. As obtained from tobacco, nicotine activates and desensitizes nAChRs, and both processes contribute to the cellular events that underlie nicotine addiction.
During development of the nervous system, neurons extend axons over considerable distances in a highly stereospecific fashion in order to innervate their targets in an appropriate manner. This involves the recognition, by the axonal growth cone, of guidance cues that determine the pathway taken by the axons. These guidance cues can act to promote and/or repel growth cone advance, and they can act either locally or at a distance from their place of synthesis. The directed growth of axons is partly governed by cell adhesion molecules (CAMs) on the neuronal growth cone that bind to CAMs on the surface of other axons or non-neuronal cells. In vitro assays have established the importance of the CAMs (N-CAM, N-cadherin and the L1 glycoprotein) in promoting axonal growth over cells, such as Schwann cells, astrocytes and muscle cells. Strong evidence now exists implicating the fibroblast growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase as the primary signal transduction molecule in the CAM pathway. Cell adhesion molecules are important constituents of synapses, and CAMs appear to play important and diverse roles in regulating synaptic plasticity associated with learning and memory. Negative extracellular signals which physically direct neurite growth have also been described. The latter include the neuronal growth inhibitory proteins Nogo and myelin-associated glycoprotein, as well as the growth cone collapsing Semaphorins/neuropilins. Although less well characterised, evidence is now beginning to emerge describing a role for Rho kinase-mediated signalling in inhibition of neurite outgrowth. This review focuses on some of the major themes and ideas associated with this fast-moving field of neuroscience.
Neuroscientists, in the last half of the 20th century, provided major insights into the cellular and molecular mechanisms associated with seeing and remembering. We first identify some of the most important of these discoveries. This is done along lines familiar to neuroscientists who have read many of the recent books and reviews that provide an overview of neuroscientific discoveries. In general, these emphasize the scientific contributions this discipline has made to our understanding of the mechanisms that give rise to the psychological attributes of humans and other animals. In the next sections, we examine the claims made in these overviews; in particular, those by the standard-bearers of neuroscience, in an attempt to clarify what can and what cannot be justified in these claims. This requires a conceptual analysis of a kind that is unfamiliar to most neuroscientists. Our analysis begins with consideration of the conceptual confusions that ensue when neuroscientists attribute seeing, remembering and other psychological attributes to the brain rather than to the creature whose brain it is. Subsequently, we outline what we take to be the appropriate conceptual scheme for neuroscientists to adopt.
Over the past 21 years since the birth of SP into the diagnostic nomenclature, there have been significant gains in knowledge about effective pharmacologic and psychotherapeutic treatments. The SSRIs have emerged as the first-line pharmacologic treatment, although good evidence shows efficacy of benzodiazepines; MAOIs; and anticonvulsant agents, such as gabapentin and pregabalin. There is also emerging evidence about the efficacy of the novel antidepressant venlafaxine and also optimism for the potential utility of nefazodone and possibly bupropion. However, there are many areas requiring further investigation. There has been a great deal of excitement about the publication of the RUPP Anxiety Study, demonstrating efficacy for fluvoxamine in socially phobic youth. Given that SP starts in childhood and adolescence, more data are needed to support the use of pharmacotherapy in this age group because early intervention may prevent the sequelae of chronic SP. There needs to be more investigation into what is required for social phobic individuals who obtain a good response to pharmacotherapy to move into full-remission status. Additional research is needed regarding the evaluation of the comparative efficacy of different drug classes and to develop an improved capability of predicting treatment response to a particular type of treatment. In addition, more research is needed regarding treatment resistance. In most of the anxiety disorders that have been studied, combining CBT with psychopharmacologic treatment has shown little advantage over either treatment alone. These findings may be due to methodologic problems. Research is needed on how to sequence treatments to maximize the benefits of combining the two types of effective treatments together. Finally, many clinicians are seeing an emerging trend of individuals who have had untreated SP all of their lives and are now presenting for treatment in their &quot;golden years.&quot; The current established treatments need to be evaluated further in this geriatric population.
Recent studies on the familial distribution and longitudinal outcome of SAD emphasize developmental aspects of the syndrome, consistent with the developmental psychopathology perspective. Key questions in this area concern factors that mediate familial transmission and that predict outcome. Prior studies provide incomplete answers to these questions. Recent studies in affective neuroscience suggest potential avenues for answering these questions. As reviewed in the current article, fMRI studies of face processing provide examples of such potentially informative research directions.
The Psychiatry Primary Medical Care program of the Portland Veterans Affairs Medical Center teaches psychiatric residents to provide integrated psychiatric and medical care in a primary care setting. During the program's first year of operation, 34 patients received ongoing integrated care from seven residents. Patients, psychiatric residents, and medical faculty reported a high degree of satisfaction with the program. The duration and frequency of visits reflected the substantial mental health and primary care needs of the population. Patients frequently missed appointments. Barriers to starting and maintaining the program included space constraints and the amount of supervision required.
Distribution by age and sex of the dimensions of the Temperament and Character Inventory were assessed cross-culturally for samples in Sweden, Germany, and the USA. The Temperament and Character Inventory is a 240-item (Sweden, 238-item), self-administered, true-false format, paper-and-pencil test developed by Cloninger and his coworkers based on his unified biosocial theory of personality. The inventory measures the Temperament dimensions Novelty Seeking, Harm Avoidance, Reward Dependence, and Persistence as well as the Character dimensions, Self-directedness, Cooperativeness, and Self-transcendence. The samples consisted of 300 German subjects, 300 Swedish subjects, and 300 U.S. subjects matched by age cohort and sex. Stability of the personality dimensions was evaluated across samples as were their age and sex distributions. We found significant effects of age, sex, and culture in univariate and multivariate comparisons on the personality dimensions. However, several significant differences in the personality dimensions for both European samples appear to be similar compared with those of the U.S. sample. We have to conclude that sex- and age-specific norms for the dimensions of the Temperament and Character Inventory are necessary given the established significant differences.

The objectives of this paper are: (1) to review advances in our understanding of the mechanisms of respiratory plasticity elicited by episodic versus continuous hypoxia in short to intermediate time domains (min to h); and (2) to present new data suggesting that different patterns of hypercapnia also elicit distinct forms of respiratory plasticity. Episodic, but not continuous hypoxia elicits long-term facilitation (LTF) of respiratory motor output. Phrenic LTF is a serotonin-dependent central neural mechanism that requires: (a) activation of spinal serotonin receptors; and (b) spinal protein synthesis. Continuous and episodic hypercapnia also elicit different mechanisms of plasticity. Continuous, severe hypercapnia (25 min of approximately 10% inspired CO(2)) elicits long-term depression (LTD) of phrenic motor output (-33+/-8% at 60 min post-hypercapnia) in anesthetized rats. In contrast, 3,5 min hypercapnic episodes do not elicit LTD (9+/-17% at 60 min). We hypothesize that the response of respiratory motoneurons to serotonergic and noradrenergic modulation may contribute to pattern sensitivity to hypoxia and hypercapnia.

Recent advancements in magnetic resonance (MR) technology have revolutionized not only structural but also functional imaging. It is now possible to perform detailed analysis of all aspects of brain function non-invasively. From the neurological standpoint, analysis of gray matter can be categorized into (1) functional mapping and (2) neuron density measurement. Similarly, analysis of white matter can be categorized into (1) tract mapping and (2) axonal physiology. Corresponding techniques in MR imaging are functional MRI (fMRI), MR neuronography (MRN), MR tractography (MRT), and MR axonography (MRX). While fMRI is a T2* contrast based technique, the rest of the techniques are based on diffusion tensor analysis (DTA).
Deposition of amyloid beta protein (A beta) as senile plaques or cerebrovascular amyloid characterizes the brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). A beta are composed of 40-42 amino acids that are proteolytically produced from its precursor beta APP. We have shown that the deposition of A beta ending at the 42nd residue (A beta 42) is one of the earliest pathological changes in AD brains. Genetic and cell biological evidence strongly suggests that mutations in beta APP or presenilin (PS) 1 and 2 genes cause AD through increase in production of A beta 42. Recently. PS1 and PS2 are shown to be the catalytic subunits of gamma-secretase that cleaves the intramembrane segments of beta APP and Notch. beta-amyloid hypothesis that emphasizes the primacy of A beta in the pathogenesis of AD is currently being verified by the new experimental therapeutic approaches, e.g., A beta vaccine therapy or administration of inhibitors of beta- or gamma-secretases.
A large number of observations since the mid-nineteenth century have shown that damage to the left but not the right hemisphere destroys language function. These observations lead to the formation of the &quot;classic&quot; view that the left hemisphere has language function but not the right hemisphere. It thus came as a considerable surprise in the early 1960's when tests on commissurotomy or split-brain patients suggested the presence of a considerable capacity for reading comprehension in the right hemisphere. It has been suggested that the spared regions in the left hemisphere normally act to prevent the expression of latent language functions within the undamaged right hemisphere. Thus, only after the intact right hemisphere has been released from the disruptive and suppressive influences of the damaged left hemisphere by section of the corpus callosum, can its own residual function become effective. Some investigators have argued, however, that the split-brain evidence is misleading because the language of the split-brain patients is presented in both hemispheres even pre-operatively. Our investigation with functional MRI is in progress to decide which hypothesis is appropriate. In addition to the functional MRI study of split-brain patient, the functional MRI study of aphasia recovery will also provide opportunities to clarify the right hemisphere language function since the right hemisphere is generally intact in the right-handed aphasic.
Directed attention is a function to direct and shift the focus of awareness adequately to behaviorally relevant sensory events. Healthy subjects direct attention evenly to right and left hemispaces. Unilateral spatial neglect is a failure to respond normally to stimuli on the side opposite a cerebral lesion, which is considered to represent a unilateral disruption of directed attention. The established clinical observation that neglect usually occurs after right hemisphere lesions and the results of functional imaging studies suggest the right hemisphere dominance for directed attention. It is hypothesized that the right hemisphere distributes attention to space bilaterally, whereas the left hemisphere distributes attention primarily to right hemispace. However, patients with callosotomy show no apparent neglect with either right or left hand. Ishiai et al. (2001) reported detailed analyses of eye movements when a patient with a callosal infarction bisected lines. Left unilateral spatial neglect may appear, when use of the right hand induces a rightward bias in the attentional control of the left hemisphere and damage to its cingulate gyrus inhibits interhemispheric integration of attention. By contrast, the disconnected but intact right hemisphere may bisect a line accurately by integrating attention to the extents perceived in the left and right visual fields.
Clinical features of and genetic approach identifying the gene for autosomal dominant cortical cerebellar atrophy linked to chromosome 16q (16q-ADCCA) are presented. The clinical characteristics of our 6 families with 16q-ADCCA were slowly progressive pure cerebellar syndrome with late age of onset (average +/- SD years: 55.9 +/- 10.0), which contrasts with more earlier onset, prominent sensory neuropathy and pyramidal tract signs seen in spinocerebellar ataxia type 4 (SCA4) linked to the same chromosomal region. To identify the gene responsible for 16q-ADCCA, we refined the previously mapped region and found that all of our 6 families share haplotype for markers lying in about 3-cM region in 16q31-q22, indicating that the founder effect is present in this disease. We next constructed a BAC contig spanning this 3-cM region. The maximum size of this contig was estimated 5 megabase (Mb). By searching public genome databases, we first examined for the presence for expansion of tandem repeat sequences in our patients. We found more than 50 tandem repeats including 8 CAG repeats. However, we have not detected any expansion in our patients so far. We are currently examining remaining repeat sequences for expansion and also several genes that appear potential candidates from their expression and functional profiles.
We have developed five tau antibodies that recognize each of 6 human tau isoforms to examine tau lesions such as Alzheimer's neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) in Alzheimer's disease (AD) as well as other tauopachies. These five antibodies were designed to be specific to splicing-sites of exon 2, exon 3, or exon10 or to the amino acid sequence in exon 3 or exon10. All of newly prepared antibodies as well as anti-human tau stained corresponding recombinant tau isoforms and isolated hyperphosphorylated tau isoforms in an isoform-specific manner on western blot. All antibodies were also found to decorate immunohistochemically NFTs but to be present in unequal amounts in NFTs where two tau isoforms (tau1-352 and tau1-381) were the major species. It is not easy to compare immunoreaction based on immunohistochemical analysis with multiple antibodies. However, the present result strongly suggest unequal occurrence of tau isoforms in Alzheimer's NFTs, indicating other isoform selection in AD than tauopathies.
Basal ganglia lie between the cerebral cortex and the thalamus, and have dense fiber connections between them. These connections form 4-5 distinct loops to allow parallel processing of information. Among them, the most intensively studied is the motor loop, which comprises 2 distinct direct and indirect pathways. The direct pathway disinhibits the powerful inhibition of Gpi/SNr upon the thalamic VL nuclei with a net result of facilitatory influence upon the motor cortex. By contrast, the indirect pathway exerts an inhibitory effect. Overall this dual system provides a center-surround mechanism to focus its effect on selected cortical neurons. The functional role of the loop in motor control has not been precisely understood. Several lines of evidence have recently been presented to support the view that this mechanism is used to focus the output to a specific group of muscles required for performing a specific task. Recent observations in dystonia and Parkinsonism suggest that this operation is made possible through opening the sensory channel for the expected sensory feed-back afferents during movement. Thus one of the important functions of basal ganglia seems to be the gating of sensory input for motor control.

This essay studies the convergence of brain research with the physiology of emotions during the early twentieth century. It argues that the brain entered the laboratory of emotions not as an object of knowledge, but as a technique for producing emotions, in spite of the laboratory. The new brain-generated emotion signaled an epistemic break in the nature of studied emotion. It restructured the relationships between physiological and psychological forms of knowledge. It embodied the historical and political concerns of physiologists with pain. And it excluded the affectively experiencing subject from the study of &quot;emotion.&quot; The essay also suggests that the brain-generated emotion was an object suspended in time and abstracted from history. Its unique a-temporal and de-contextualized characteristic transformed emotion into a product of a laboratory whose mode of production mimicked the modern factory. The constitutive elements that were assembled in creating the brain as emotion-generator were instrumental for the important studies of James Papez, Paul MacLean, and for the modern concept of Limbic System.
The life of the pioneer electroencephalographer, William Grey Walter, initially appears to be a paradigmatic example of the process of network building and delegation identified by Michel Callon and Bruno Latour. In his professional career, Walter continually repositioned himself, moving from an unhappy beginning as an expert in the apparently unless and suspect technology of the EEG, to become a self-styled crucial mediator in subjects as diverse as medical diagnosis, forensic detection, marriage counseling, and international diplomacy. This position was achieved moreover through the construction and co-option of human and mechanical accomplices - laboratory assistants, electrical tortoises, and mechanical analyzers - which sustained his research and propagated his arguments. However in contrast to Callon and Latour's atomistic account of scientific power and agency, this paper will extend their analysis to explore the impact of network building and delegation on domestic life, human desire, and personal identity. Walter's engagement with the complexities of love and the human brain demonstrates how the transformative power of scientific rhetoric extends simultaneously into both the organization of the world and the subjectivity of the individual.
After more than half a century of eclipse, the mind (in contradistinction to brain and behavior) emerged in the 1950s as a legitimate object of experimental and quantitative research in natural science. This paper argues that the neural nets project of Warren S. McCulloch, in frequent collaboration with Walter Pitts, spearheaded this cognitivist turn in the 1940s. Viewing the project as a spiritual and poetic quest for the transcendental logos, as well as culturally situated epistemology, the paper focuses on McCulloch's and Pitts' efforts of logical modeling of the mind and on the social conditions that shaped that mission. From McCulloch's &quot;experimental epistemology,&quot; the mind - purposes that ideas - emerged out of the regularities of neuronal interactions, or nets. That science of mind thus became a science of signals based on binary logic with clearly defined units of perception and precise rules of formation and transformation for representing mental states. Aimed at bridging the gulf between body and mind (matter and form) and the technical gulf between things man-made and things begotten, neural nets also laid the foundation for the field of artificial intelligence. Thus this paper also situates McCulloch;'s work within a larger historical trend, when cybernetics, information theory, systems theories, and electronic computers were coalescing into a new science of communication and control with enormous potential for industrial automation and military power in the Cold War era. McCulloch's modeling the mind as a system of command and control contributed to the actualization of this potential.
The cerebral localization of mental functions is one of the centerpieces of modern brain research. Though the localization paradigm in its cultural and social interwovenness has been characterized as successful in the last third of the nineteenth century by a variety of historians of the neurosciences, there is also general agreement that localization came under threat around 1900. Besides the so-called holistic protest against the localization of mental functions, the neuroanatomical approach itself was challenged by experimental psychology, psychiatric nosology, and psychoanalysis. This story underestimates the fact that anatomically-based localization remained powerful in response to these multiple challenges. This meant a neuroanatomical revision of tools, concepts, and practices. But this meant also a shift in the cultivation of the cortex from a more philosophical agenda to rather concrete political claims. More specifically, the idea of the cortext as the noblest part of man was supplemented by suggestions concerning its &quot;Hherzchtung.&quot; I will analyze this re-orientation and radicalization in two steps. First, I briefly discuss the anatomical and philosophical account of Theodor Meynert and then turn to Paul Flechsig who in the late nineteenth century inscribed the ability to create culture and civilization into the cortext. Second, I focus on the neuroanatomists Oskar and Ccile Vogt, who began their careers around 1900 and expanded the cultivation of the cortext. Even before World War I, they proclaimed a &quot;cerebral hygiene.&quot; Consequently, the Vogts linked their innovative neuroanatomical researches with the rising field of genetics, racial hygiene, and eugenics. In the early Weimar Republic, the Vogts openly supported socialist ideas and were engaged in establishing an Institute for Brain Research in Soviet Moscow, where Lenin's brain was analyzed. By the end of the Weimar Republic, the rhetoric of the Vogts was bluntly authoritarian. Based on a few anatomical examinations of so-called elite brains and the brains of criminals, they made concrete suggestions for eugenics and the breeding of &quot;one-sidedly gifted leaders.&quot; Given the remarkable popularity of the Vogts around 1930, their program is an important example of the hubris of predicting and guiding future developments on the basis of scientific authority. It can be regarded as an ironic nemesis that the Vogts - never sympathizing with the political aims of the National Socialists - were forced to finish their careers as influential Kaiser Wilhelm scientists in Nazi-Germany.
Recent writers in the brain sciences and the philosophy of mind contrast modern biological theories of consciousness with a mind-body dualism supposedly dominant half-a-century ago which they regard as scientifically sterile. Reference to C. S. Sherrington often signals the rejected dualism. This paper re-examines Sherrington's highly qualified position and links it to the arguments of British scientists for whom he was a figurehead in the 1930s and 1940s. I interpret the mind-body literature as ancillary to debates about cultural values. From this perspective, dualism represents a defense of a threatened conservative culture. Dismissal of scientists' supposed &quot;dualism&quot; does little to illuminate the tension in their thought between defense of values traditionally associated with mind and hope for an integrated mind-body science. This leads to comments on Sherrington's own concept of integration. The conclusion relates these points to the new research in the brain sciences evident by the end of the 1940s.
There have been many major advances recently that have improved the identification and management of retinopathy of prematurity (ROP). This chapter describes the clinical features of ROP and then considers briefly the incidence and epidemiology of acute phase disease. This is followed by a discussion of the two ROP epidemics and ROP-induced disability in high, low and middle income countries, and how this has been impacted by treatment. The principles and specifics of screening for ROP are considered, focusing on certain topical issues such as whether one screening guideline suits all populations. Treatment has undergone several advances, so that now laser therapy has overtaken cryotherapy as the preferred mode of treatment, and treatment at an earlier stage is now being considered. Finally, the authors attempt to look into the future and wonder how the criteria for treatment will change, and whether innovations in ocular imaging will impact ROP screening in both high and middle income countries.
The revolution in neurological therapeutics means that an increasing number of neurologists will have the opportunity to participate in a drug development process that is long and complicated. The opportunity provides challenges as well as rewards, and should be undertaken only after thoughtful review of the Clinical Investigator's Brochure and protocol. Key questions that the neurologist should address prior to participation are reviewed herein.




The behavioral effects of psychostimulants, which are produced at least in part through inhibition of the dopamine transporter (DAT), are modulated by kappa-opioid receptors (KOR) in the nucleus accumbens (Acb). Using electron microscopic immunocytochemistry, we reveal that in the Acb KOR labeling is mainly, and DAT immunoreactivity is exclusively, presynaptic. From 400 KOR-labeled presynaptic structures, including axon terminals, intervaricosities, and small axons, 51% expressed DAT and 29% contacted another population of terminals exclusively labeled for DAT. Within axonal profiles that contained both antigens, DAT and KOR were prominently localized to plasma membrane segments that showed overlapping distributions of the respective immunogold-silver and immunoperoxidase markers. KOR labeling was also localized to membranes of small synaptic vesicles in terminals with or without DAT immunoreactivity. In addition, from 24 KOR-immunoreactive dendritic spines 42% received convergent input from DAT-containing varicosities and unlabeled terminals forming asymmetric, excitatory-type synapses. Our results provide the first ultrastructural evidence that in the Acb, KOR is localized to strategic sites for involvement in the direct presynaptic release and/or reuptake of dopamine. These data also suggest a role for KOR in the presynaptic modulation of other neurotransmitters and in the postsynaptic excitatory responses of single spiny neurons in the Acb. Dual actions on dopamine terminals and their targets in the Acb may account for KOR-mediated attenuation of drug reinforcement and sensitization.
Olfactory bulbectomy, neonatal clomipramine administration, and maternal deprivation have been employed as animal models of depression. Each model is unique with respect to the experimental manipulations required to produce &quot;depressive&quot; signs, expression and duration of these signs, and response to antidepressant treatments. Dendritic spines represent a possible anatomical substrate for the enduring changes seen with depression and we have previously shown that chronic antidepressant drug exposure alters the density of hippocampal dendritic spines in an enduring fashion. The purpose of the present study was to determine whether persistent alteration of hippocampal spine density is a common element in each of these different models of depression and whether such alterations could be reversed with chronic antidepressant treatment. The results show that olfactory bulbectomy reduced spine density in CA1, CA3, and dentate gyrus compared to sham-operated controls. Chronic treatment with amitriptyline, a tricyclic antidepressant, reversed the bulbectomy- induced reduction in dendritic spine density in CA1, CA3, and dentate gyrus, whereas treatment with mianserin, an atypical antidepressant, reversed this reduction only in dentate gyrus. On the other hand, neither neonatal clomipramine administration nor maternal deprivation affected hippocampal dendritic spine density. Repeated neonatal handling, however, as a control or as part of the maternal deprivation procedure, elevated spine density in dentate gyrus. These data suggest that long-lasting alterations in hippocampal dendritic spine density contribute to the neural mechanism underlying the olfactory bulbectomy model of depression, but not the neonatal clomipramine or maternal deprivation models.
Leptin is thought to relay metabolic information to the hypothalamic-pituitary- gonadal axis and to participate in the neuroendocrine control of puberty. To help elucidate the underlying mechanism, Cheung et al. recently performed a diverse series of experiments, the results of which undermine the prevailing hypothesis that leptin acts as a metabolic trigger for the initiation of puberty. Instead, their results suggest that leptin is one of many permissive metabolic factors that allow pubertal development to proceed.
More than 70 years ago, von Economo predicted a wake-promoting area in the posterior hypothalamus and a sleep-promoting region in the preoptic area. Recent studies have dramatically confirmed these predictions. The ventrolateral preoptic nucleus contains GABAergic and galaninergic neurons that are active during sleep and are necessary for normal sleep. The posterior lateral hypothalamus contains orexin/hypocretin neurons that are crucial for maintaining normal wakefulness. A model is proposed in which wake- and sleep-promoting neurons inhibit each other, which results in stable wakefulness and sleep. Disruption of wake- or sleep-promoting pathways results in behavioral state instability.
A fundamental problem in neuroscience has been the creation of suitable in vivo model systems to study basic neurological phenomena and pathology of the central nervous system (CNS). Somatic cell genetic engineering with viral vectors provides a versatile tool to model normal brain physiology and a variety of neurological diseases.

The concept of &quot;negative&quot; goes over the organodynamics of Henri Ey in its entirety. It is his fundamental concept. We owe him the epistemological unit of a theory that involves the body and the spirit, the biological aspects and the psychological ones, the chemotherapy and the psychotherapy. This unit has become valuable in our time of eclecticism multifactorial, always threatening of explosion or of division between neurosciences and psychotherapies with the consequences that one can imagine for our patients and for psychiatrist's profession.
1. Quercetin is a natural flavonoid present in vegetables, fruit and wine, and is known to inhibit sulphotransferase. Drugs are often taken orally and the intestinal mucosa is an early site of drug metabolism. The aims of this investigation were to study the inhibition of dopamine, (-)-salbutamol, minoxidil and paracetamol sulphation by quercetin in the duodenal mucosa and liver and to compare the IC50 in these tissues. 2. The rates (pmol min(-1) mg(-1)) of sulphation of 4-nitrophenol were 343+/-92 (liver) and 164+/-22 (duodenum; p = 0.031), of dopamine were 15+/-11 (liver) and 656+/-516 (duodenum; p = 0.049), of (-)-salbutamol 153+/-31 (liver) and 654+/-277 (duodenum; p = 0.018), of minoxidil were 156+/-47 (liver) and 105+/-7 (duodenum; n.s.), and of paracetamol were 229+/-86 (liver) and 328+/-187 (duodenum; n.s.). 3. The IC50 of quercetin for 4-nitrophenol was 48+/-11 nM (liver) and 56+/-1 nM (duodenum, n.s.), for dopamine was 5.7+/-0.7 microM (liver) and 170+/-12 microM (duodenum, p &lt; 0.0001), for (-)-salbutamol was 54+/-4 nM (liver) and 16+/-8 microM (duodenum; p = 0.025), for minoxidil was 134+/-22 nM (liver) and 3+/-0.3 microM (duodenum, p = 0.013), and for paracetamol was 57+/-7 nM (liver) and 35+/-1 microM (duodenum; p = 0.0002). 4. Quercetin inhibited the sulphation of 4-nitrophenol, dopamine, (-)-salbutamol, minoxidil and paracetamol both in liver and duodenum. With dopamine, (-)-salbutamol, minoxidil and paracetamol as substrates, quercetin was a more potent inhibitor in the liver than the duodenum. Such a difference may reflect the different composition of sulphotransferase forms in the liver and duodenum.


Tourette syndrome (TS), obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) and related conditions are prevalent disorders affecting as many as 0.3-3% of the population. They are frequently chronic and can be associated with marked impairment and disability. Although clinical care has improved over the past decade, a significant number of patients fail to respond adequately or experience intolerable side effects. The etiology of these disorders is unknown. Compelling evidence suggests that the vulnerability to develop TS and OCD is mediated by both genetic and environmental factors, and that neural systems located in the basal ganglia and functionally related brain structures are involved in their pathogenesis. Based on explicit models of pathogenesis for TS and OCD and building on work accomplished over the past two decades, an array of clinical, neuropsychological, genetic, neuroimaging, epidemiological neurobiological, and treatment studies have been completed or are underway at the Child Study Center at Yale University. A multidisciplinary team of investigators has joined forces to test specific hypotheses through the integration and translation of basic and clinical neuroscience research. All subjects have been studied using identical clinical, neuropsychological, genetic, neurobiological, and pharmacological techniques. Current conceptualizations of TS have been shaped by advances in clinical phenomenology, genetics, systems neuroscience and the emerging understanding of the role of the basal ganglia in implicit learning and habit formation, neuroimmunology and psychopharmacology. An appreciation of the premonitory urges that precede tics and temporal dynamics of tics have provided useful viewpoints from which to regard the natural history of TS. While the long-term outcome of TS can be relatively benign, the presence of comorbid conditions such as attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), OCD or a major affective disorder can have lasting untoward consequences. The identification of susceptibility genes in TS will doubtless point in new therapeutic directions for treatment, as will the characterization of the putative autoimmune mechanisms active in subgroup of patients. Continued success in functional in vivo neuroimaging studies will lead to the targeting of specific brain circuits for more intensive study. Although ideal anti-tic therapies are not available, recently completed clinical trials with alpha-adrenergic agents and atypical neuroleptics are encouraging. Given these developments, TS can be considered a model disorder to study the dynamic interplay of genetic vulnerabilities, epigenetic events, and neurobiological systems active during early brain development. It is likely that the research paradigms utilized in these studies and many of the empirical findings resulting from them, will be relevant to other disorders of childhood onset and to our understanding of normal development.
A functional gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) B receptor is the first metabotropic receptor known to be composed of two heteromeric subunits, GABA(B)R1 and GABA(B)R2. Our previous report [Neuroscience 99 (2000) 65] has demonstrated that subpopulations of neurons in the rat substantia nigra display distinct patterns of distribution of GABA(B)R1 receptor immunoreactivity. A robust level of GABA(B)R1 receptor is only found in the dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc). The objective of the present study was to determine the precise cellular localization of GABA(B)R2 subunit in the rat substantia nigra using double immunofluorescence. Neuropilar elements in the SNc and the substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr) were found to display GABA(B)R2 immunoreactivity. In addition, the tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive dopaminergic neurons and the parvalbumin-immunoreactive GABAergic neurons in the SNr were also found to display GABA(B)R2 immunoreactivity. The present results thus demonstrate that a functional GABA(B) receptor may be expressed by the dopaminergic neurons in the SNc. It is less clear whether neurons in the SNr express a functional GABA(B) receptor. The present findings have important functional implications in GABA neurotransmission in the substantia nigra.
Social defeat is a powerful experience that often leads to drastic physiological and behavioral changes in many animal species. An example of such a change is conditioned defeat in Syrian hamsters. The neurophysiological mechanisms that underlie such changes are not yet fully understood, however, there is evidence that the amygdala plays an essential role in behavioral and emotional responses to a variety of stressors. The goal of the present study was to determine whether GABAergic neurotransmission in the amygdala is a critical component of conditioned defeat in male Syrian hamsters. Experiment 1 examined whether infusion of the GABA(A) receptor agonist, muscimol (0.0, 4.4, 8.8 nmol), into the amygdala would block the acquisition of conditioned defeat. Experiment 2 examined whether infusion of muscimol into the amygdala prior to testing would block expression of conditioned defeat. Submissive behavior during testing was significantly reduced in animals receiving infusions of muscimol immediately prior to initial defeat training. Animals that received infusions of muscimol immediately prior to being tested with a non-aggressive intruder also displayed significantly less submissive behavior than did animals receiving vehicle control. These data indicate that infusion of muscimol into the amygdala can block the acquisition and expression of conditioned defeat, a finding that indicates that GABAergic neurotransmission within the amygdala is involved in the acquisition and expression of fear or stress-induced behavioral changes. This is the first evidence indicating that the neural circuits involved in Pavlovian fear conditioning are also involved in more ethologically-relevant models examining stress-related behavioral plasticity.
Muscle specific kinase (MuSK) mediates agrin-induced acetylcholine receptor (AChR) aggregation on muscle membrane at the neuromuscular junction (NMJ). To examine whether MuSK enhances NMJ formation during embryonic development in vivo, the level of expression of MuSK was manipulated in Xenopus embryos and the functional consequence at the NMJ was assessed. We found that overexpression of MuSK enhanced the formation of NMJ by increasing the aggregation of AChRs at innervated regions in developing embryos. The area of AChR aggregation increased by approximately 2-fold in MuSK injected embryos during the critical stages of NMJ formation. Interestingly, overexpression of MuSK in Xenopus embryos was found to induce the level of AChR transcript. Deletion of the Kringle domain in the MuSK construct did not attenuate the observed induction of AChR transcription and aggregation. Taken together, our findings provide the first demonstration that increased level of MuSK expression in vivo significantly elevate the aggregation and transcription of AChR at the NMJ in developing Xenopus embryos.
Calcineurin is a calcium-dependent protein phosphatase that has been implicated in various aspects of synaptic plasticity. By using conditional gene-targeting techniques, we created mice in which calcineurin activity is disrupted specifically in the adult forebrain. At hippocampal Schaffer collateral-CA1 synapses, LTD was significantly diminished, and there was a significant shift in the LTD/LTP modification threshold in mutant mice. Strikingly, although performance was normal in hippocampus-dependent reference memory tasks, including contextual fear conditioning and the Morris water maze, the mutant mice were impaired in hippocampus-dependent working and episodic-like memory tasks, including the delayed matching-to-place task and the radial maze task. Our results define a critical role for calcineurin in bidirectional synaptic plasticity and suggest a novel mechanistic distinction between working/episodic-like memory and reference memory.
Intramembranous cleavage of the beta-amyloid precursor protein by gamma-secretase is the final processing event generating amyloid-beta peptides, which are thought to be causative agents for Alzheimer's disease. Missense mutations in the presenilin genes co-segregate with early-onset Alzheimer's disease, and, recently, a close biochemical linkage between presenilins and the identity of gamma-secretase has been established. Here we describe for the first time that certain potent gamma-secretase inhibitors are able to interfere with the endoproteolytic processing of presenilin 1 (PS1). In addition, we identified a novel gamma-secretase inhibitor, [1S-benzyl-4R-[1-(5-cyclohexyl-2-oxo-2,3-dihydro-1H-benzo[e][1,4]diazepin-3(R,S)-ylcarbamoyl)-S-ethylcarbamoyl]-2R-hydroxy-5-phenyl-pentyl]-carbamic acid tert-butyl ester (CBAP), which not only physically interacts with PS1, but upon chronic treatment produces a &quot;pharmacological knock-down&quot; of PS1 fragments. This indicates that the observed accumulation of full-length PS1 is caused by a direct inhibition of its endoproteolysis. The subsequent use of CBAP as a biological tool to increase full-length PS1 levels in the absence of exogenous PS1 expression has provided evidence that wild-type PS1 endoproteolysis is not required either for PS1/gamma-secretase complex assembly or trafficking. Furthermore, in cell-based systems CBAP does not completely recapitulate PS1 loss-of-function phenotypes. Even though the beta-amyloid precursor protein cleavage and the S3 cleavage of the Notch receptor are inhibited by CBAP, an impairment of Trk receptor maturation was not observed.
Differential targeting of neuronal proteins to axons and dendrites is essential for directional information flow within the brain, however, little is known about this protein-sorting process. Here, we investigate polarized targeting of lipid-anchored peripheral membrane proteins, postsynaptic density-95 (PSD-95) and growth-associated protein-43 (GAP-43). Whereas the N-terminal palmitoylated motif of PSD-95 is necessary but not sufficient for sorting to dendrites, the palmitoylation motif of GAP-43 is sufficient for axonal targeting and can redirect a PSD-95 chimera to axons. Systematic mutagenesis of the GAP-43 and PSD-95 palmitoylation motifs indicates that the spacing of the palmitoylated cysteines and the presence of nearby basic amino acids determine polarized targeting by these two motifs. Similarly, the axonal protein paralemmin contains a C-terminal palmitoylated domain, which resembles that of GAP-43 and also mediates axonal targeting. These axonally targeted palmitoylation motifs also mediate targeting to detergent-insoluble glycolipid-enriched complexes in heterologous cells, suggesting a possible role for specialized lipid domains in axonal sorting of peripheral membrane proteins.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is a new method for investigating cortical information processing and for investigating therapeutic applications in psychiatry and neurology. A common problem of most studies in this field regards the localization of the magnetic coil with respect to the cortex. This article reviews the currently used methods and proposes a neuronavigational approach. The method of neuronavigated TMS is described and discussed in detail. It is used to guide the magnetic coil on an individual basis to a structurally or functionally predetermined cortical area while monitoring the location of the coil in relation to the subject's head in real time. Possible applications of TMS in combination with functional neuroimaging in clinical research within a cognitive neuroscience framework are discussed. Future applications of TMS should take individual anatomy into account, and neuronavigation provides the means to do so.
The use of scientific methods in the investigation of the central nervous system began at the beginning of the twentieth century, as gifted scientists like Gustav Adolf Guldberg (1854-1908), Fridtjof Nansen (1861-1930), and Georg Herman Monrad-Krohn (1884-1964) took up their research work. Dr Monrad-Krohn's renowned textbook, the so-called &quot;Blue Bible&quot;, appeared in 1914 and enhanced the reputation of Norwegian science among specialists internationally. More than any other Norwegian scientist, Professor Alf Brodal (1910-88) brought brain research to new heights. This article presents a portrait of him in relation to his area of research.
The aim of the present study was to investigate the capacity of repeated administration of cocaine (5 nmol/side) or the selective dopamine re-uptake inhibitor GBR 12909 (15 nmol/side) into the ventral tegmental area (VTA) to initiate behavioral sensitization to systemically administered cocaine (15 mg/kg, intraperitoneally). Following 1 week of withdrawal from intra-VTA treatment, cocaine or GBR 12909 pretreated animals displayed sensitized locomotor and rearing behavior to acute systemic cocaine administration. These data support the possibility that increased dopamine transmission in the VTA is involved in the cellular events that determine the initiation of behavioral sensitization to cocaine.
