Changes in electrochemical responses at stearate-modified and unmodified graphite paste electrodes were compared simultaneously by intrastriatal chronoamperometry in freely moving rats. Responses at the modified electrodes were unaffected by ascorbate administration, decreased by pergolide and increased by pargyline and haloperidol. The effects of haloperidol were reversed by gamma-butyrolactone but not by pargyline. In contrast, responses at the unmodified electrodes were increased by ascorbate or pergolide and decreased by pargyline. Haloperidol-induced increases at these electrodes were rapidly reversed by pargyline. Responses of the two electrodes differed significantly in both magnitude and temporal characteristics after amphetamine administration. The results demonstrate that the modified electrodes can selectively monitor released dopamine in the freely moving animal, even when there are simultaneous, large changes in ascorbate and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid.
The effects of chemically and electrically-induced convulsions on the binding of [3H]Ro 5-4864 to peripheral benzodiazepine receptors (PBR) was studied in both peripheral tissues and the central nervous system (CNS). Acute, maximal electroshock (MES) increased the density of PBR in mouse cerebral cortex as evidenced by a 30% increase in the Bmax of this archetypic ligand. These values returned to control levels by 60 minutes after MES treatment. In contrast, thirty and sixty minutes after convulsions induced by Ro 5-4864, strychnine, or pentylenetetrazol, neither the Bmax nor Kd of [3H]Ro 5-4864 binding to mouse cerebral cortical membranes was altered. The increase in [3H]Ro 5-4864 binding to cortex observed 30 minutes after MES was blocked by anticonvulsant doses of phenobarbital, phenytoin and clonazepam. No changes in the characteristics of [3H]Ro 5-4864 binding was observed in cerebellar or hippocampal membranes 30 minutes following acute MES. Further, after long-term MES administration (1 treatment/day, 5 days), no change in PBR density could be detected 30 minutes after the last MES. Finally, while no change in PBR density was noted in the kidneys 30 minutes after the MES, a significant increase in PBR density was seen in the cardiac ventricles. These results demonstrate a selective modulation of PBR density by MES, suggesting that the PBR could be involved in either the generation of seizures or in postictal compensatory processes.
The action of the delipidization step and the type of differentiation fluid was assessed for two stains, Harris' hematoxylin and thionin, in frozen sections of rat brains. For thionin, all procedural variations used produced a blue or purple cell staining. Myelin stained red when sections were delipidized and differentiated in acetic acid, acid-formalin, or acid-alcohol. Myelin remained white when the delipidization step was omitted or when differentiation was performed in alcohol. Myelin staining was achieved with Harris' hematoxylin when sections were delipidized and were differentiated in either acid-formalin or borax-ferricyanide. The former produced red fibers against a red-purple or light purple cell background with some cell staining. The latter produced purple fibers contrasting sharply with a buff background and minimal cell staining. Cells were further accentuated in the hematoxylin techniques by a thionin counterstain.
The effect of PGE2 on neurotransmission in the canine tracheal strip dissected free of epithelium was studied in the single sucrose gap and organ bath. PGE2 was a potent inhibitor of the initiation of excitatory junction potentials (ejps) by just submaximal nerve stimulation. In a concentration of 10(-9) or 10(-8) M PGE2 nearly or completely abolished them. Contractile responses to field stimulation in the sucrose gap at 27 degrees C or in muscle baths at 37 degrees C were also reduced or abolished by PGE2 in the same dose range; reductions were greater at low frequency. Responses to acetylcholine were also depressed but significantly less than to field stimulation. These are consistent with major presynaptic as well as some postsynaptic inhibitory actions of PGE2. No evidence was obtained that endogenous PGE2 affected excitatory junction potentials and contractions; i.e. they were stable for hours and unaffected by indomethacin 10(-6) and 10(-5) M under our conditions. Post-stimulus potentiation of ejps amplitude, maximum at 10 s, was observed and became more marked after the first ejp had been markedly reduced or abolished by PGE2. This potentiation was unaffected by indomethacin. It was suggested that a presynaptic process inhibited by PGE2 might participate in this potentiation. The canine trachea is a useful preparation when studied under the experimental condition used here for study of effects of products of arachidonate on neurotransmission.
The generation and development of muscle cells in the IVth hindlimb lumbrical muscle of the rat was studied following total or partial denervation. Denervation was carried out by injection of beta-bungarotoxin (beta-BTX), a neurotoxin which binds to and destroys peripheral nerves. Primary myotubes were generated in denervated muscles and reached their normal stable number on embryonic day 17 (E17). This number was not maintained and denervated muscles examined on E19 or E21 contained many degenerating primary myotubes. Embryos injected with beta-bungarotoxin (beta-BTX) on E12 or E13 suffered a partial loss of motoneurones, resulting in a reduced number of axons in the L4 ventral root (the IVth lumbrical muscle is supplied by axons in L4, L5 and L6 ventral roots) and reduced numbers of nerve terminals in the intrinsic muscles of the hindfoot. Twitch tension measurements showed that all myotubes in partly innervated muscles examined on E21 contracted in response to nerve stimulation. Primary myotubes were formed and maintained at normal numbers in muscles with innervation reduced throughout development, but a diminished number of secondary myotubes formed by E21. The latter was correlated with a reduction in number of mononucleate cells within the muscles. If beta-BTX was injected on E18 to denervate muscles after primary myotube formation was complete, E21 embryo muscles contained degenerating primary myotubes. After injection to denervate muscles on E19, the day secondary myotubes begin to form, E21 muscles possessed normal numbers of primary myotubes. In both cases, secondary myotube formation had stopped about 1 day after the injection and the number of mononucleate cells was greatly reduced, indicating that cessation of secondary myotube generation was most probably due to exhaustion of the supply of competent myoblasts. We conclude that nerve terminals regulate the number of secondary myotubes by stimulating mitosis in a nerve-dependent population of myoblasts and that activation of these myoblasts requires the physical presence of nerve terminals as well as activation of contraction in primary myotubes.
Numbers of myoblasts, primary myotubes and secondary myotubes in developing rat embryo hindlimb IVth lumbrical muscles were counted at daily intervals up until the time of birth, using electron microscopy. Motoneurone death at the spinal cord level supplying the lumbricals was assessed by counting axons in the 4th lumbar ventral root. Death of the motoneurones that supply the intrinsic muscles of the hindfoot was monitored by comparing the timecourse of development of total muscle choline acetyltransferase activity in control embryos with that in embryos where motoneurone death was inhibited by chronic paralysis with TTX, and by counting axons in the mixed nerve trunks at the level of the ankle at daily intervals. Condensations of undifferentiated cells marking the site of formation of the muscle were seen on embryonic day 15 (E15). Primary myotubes began to appear on E16 and reached a stable number (102 +/- 4) by E17. Secondary myotubes first appeared two days later, on E19, and numbered 280 at the time of birth (E22). The adult total of about 1000 muscle fibres, derived from both primary and secondary myotubes, was reached at postnatal day 7 (PN7) so considerable generation of secondary myotubes occurred after birth. There was a linear correlation between the number of undifferentiated mononucleate cells in a muscle and the rate of formation of secondary myotubes. The major period of motoneurone death in lumbar spinal cord was during E16-E17, when axon numbers in the L4 ventral root fell from 12,000 to 4000, but a discontinuity in the curve of muscle ChAT activity versus time indicated that death in the lumbrical motor pool occurred during E17-E19, after all primary myotubes had formed and before generation of secondary myotubes began. We suggest that motoneurone death, by regulating the final size of the motoneurone pool, regulates the ratio of secondary to primary myotube numbers in a muscle.


Ten subjects diagnosed as Psychalgia were taken for study. A multiple baseline design was adapted and clients were subjected to 30 sessions of autogenic training. They were assessed using physiological (EMG and thermal change) and behavioural measures (Visual analogue scale and behavioural symptom checklist). Findings revealed autogenic therapy to be effective in reducing tension headache.
A promising new &quot;ecumenical&quot; movement in psychiatry attempts to synthesize the two great intellectual traditions, psychoanalysis and neurobiology, so that we may avoid splitting the care of the patient into the partial domains of biotherapy that lacks the understanding of mental interrelations and purely psychological psychotherapy that lacks an appreciation of the embeddedness of mental processes in brain function. Recent synthetic work is assessed, taking as a point of departure an historic symposium in Pittsburgh, October 26-27, 1984, entitled &quot;Neurobiology and the Unconscious: Psychoanalysis Looks Toward the Future.&quot; The means of representation of meaning (whose description was begun by Freud) in such unconscious material as dreams and folklore show the imprint of the brain function in which they are imbedded. Our afferent and efferent processes, including language, are patterned by their neuromedical basis. Linkages will be sought of representational images to visual, vestibular, and neuromotor traces: evidence that the human &quot;thinking machine&quot; is a very human body rather than some disembodied psychological self or computer simulation by artificial intelligence programming. Illustrative material is in part drawn from the popular dream episodes cartooned by Winsor McCay, which were considered graphic masterpieces, and incorporated representations of many normal unconscious brain mechanisms, including unusual perspectives, vestibular sensations, neuromotor inhibitions, transformations; visual and linguistic distortions, bizarre bodily intrusions, and sexual symbols. J. Allen Hobson and R.W. McCarley's 1977 arguments for the determining the significance of the pontine dream generator may have been anticipated by McCay's 1905 Dreams of the Rarebit Fiend in which, at the end of each very Freudian nightmare, the dreamer wakes and swears off eating welsh rarebits as if they caused all his unconscious images. To avoid a biological reductiveness, Freud, whom Sulloway (1983) has described as a biologist of the mind, resorted to presenting psychoanalysis as a pure psychology, not because he ever doubted the neurological imbeddedness of mind, but only because he felt medical psychoanalysts were too easily seduced and distracted by neurological mechanisms of his day to appreciate properly the importance of psychodynamics. Increasing recognition of the imbeddedness of psychoanalysis in brain function is now timely and likely, providing fresh directions for both medical psychoanalysis and the neurosciences.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The retrograde transport of horseradish peroxidase (HRP) was used to trace afferents from the femoral-saphenous vein to the dorsal root ganglia in the cat. Afferents arising along the entire length of the vein projected to very localized spinal levels; 63% of the labeled cells counted were located in the L6 dorsal root ganglion, 37% were located in the L5 ganglion and less than 1% were located at other levels. Most of the cell bodies labeled by the application of HRP to the femoral-saphenous vein were small in size (diameter less than 35 microns). However, some large cell bodies (diameter greater than 50 microns) were also noted. It was estimated that over two-thirds of the femoral-saphenous venous afferents were C fibers; at least 15% were estimated to be A fibers. The largest venous afferents were predicted to conduct action potentials at approximately 60 m/s.
A Ca-dependent erythrolytic protein (perforin) was isolated from a cytotoxic T-cell line (CTLL2). Cellular extracts were fractionated on DEAE-cellulose and hydrophobic Phenyl-Sepharose columns. Lytic activity was tightly bound to the hydrophobic column and was eluted with 50% ethyleneglycol. The erythrolytic activity was dependent on the concentration of Ca2+ ions, and heparin accelerated the lysis of erythrocytes by perforin 10-fold, with a half maximal concentration of 12 ng/ml. The activity was strongly inhibited by micromolar concentrations of heavy metal ions, such as Zn2+ and Fe2+, and glycylarginine-methylcoumarinamide (Gly-Arg-MCA) in the presence of 100 ng/ml heparin.



Most research on the mechanism of action of antidepressant drugs and repeated electroconvulsive shock (ECS) has focussed on changes in monoamine chemistry and function. Most antidepressant treatments, on repeated administration, decrease the number of beta-adrenoceptors in the cortex, a change which does not occur if 5-HT pathways to the cortex are lesioned, suggesting that 5-HT neurones play a permissive role in the change and high-lighting the complex neurotransmitter interactions that are present. Several drugs and electroconvulsive shock also attenuate the function of alpha 2-adrenoceptors (shown both by the sedation response and change in MOPEG-SO4 that occurs after injection of clonodine). Repeated treatment with the majority of antidepressant drugs decreases the number of 5-HT2 receptor and function. However, repeated electroconvulsive shock increases both these parameters. In contrast the hypothermic response which follows injection of the 5HT1A receptor agonist 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)-tetralin-(8-OHDPAT) is attenuated not only after a range of diverse antidepressant drugs but also electroconvulsive shock. This suggests that the 5HT1A receptor is subsensitive after both antidepressant drugs and electroconvulsive shock. Recently, it has been demonstrated that a wide range of antidepressant drugs and electroconvulsive shock lead, on repeated administration, to an increase in the number of GABAB receptors and the enhancement of the degree of inhibition of release of 5-HT in cortical slices by the GABAB agonist baclofen suggests that a functional correlate of this change can be demonstrated.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Over the past ten to fifteen years, receptor mapping has expanded from a very minor technique, beseiged by problems and limited in its approach, to one that is widespread, extended beyond receptors and applied to clinical problems and populations with modern imaging and scanning techniques.
Electrophysiological studies using a cortical slice preparation revealed that MK-801 is a potent, non-competitive, antagonist of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-induced depolarisations. Also, MK-801 was a highly selective antagonist, exhibiting a high degree of use-dependency. It completely blocked responses to NMDA and quinolinic acid but had no effect on responses produced by kainic acid or quisqualic acid. Using [3H]MK-801, high affinity binding sites for MK-801 were detected in membranes of the rat brain. The pharmacological specificity and regional distribution of binding sites for MK-801 were consistent with an action of the compound at the level of the NMDA receptor-associated ion channel. Administered parenterally, MK-801 had a remarkable neuroprotective role. It caused essentially complete protection against loss of neurones produced by injection of neurotoxic doses of NMDA or quinolinic acid into the striatum or hippocampus. Furthermore, MK-801 was highly effective in preventing loss of hippocampal neurones following bilateral occlusion of the common carotid arteries in the gerbil.
This article reviews animal tests of anxiety and charts the contribution of behavioural studies to the neuropharmacology of anxiety. In particular it has been possible to distinguish several sites of action for anxiogenic drugs. Whilst great progress has been made to knowledge of the functioning of the GABA-benzodiazepine receptor complex, there has been little advance in the understanding of the other neurochemical pathways concerned with mediating changes in anxiety. The claim to have a drug that is a non-sedative anxiolytic should be based on firm behavioural evidence. The extent to which this has been realised for the existing candidates is reviewed.
In order to evaluate the regulation of neuropeptide stores in structures of the rat brain, the content of the specific messenger ribonucleic acid for the peptide precursor, of the precursor and of its biologically active peptide fragment, resulting from the precursor processing was measured. Enkephalin stores of the striatum, but not that of other structures, were upregulated by repeated daily doses of dopaminergic receptor antagonists of the D-1 type. Morphine tolerance failed to change stores of enkephalin in brain but produced a down-regulation of the synthesis of pro-opiomelanocortin in the hypothalamus. The regulation of diazepam binding inhibitor (DBI), the precursor of a family of putative endogenous ligands of the benzodiazepine recognition site, was studied during tolerance to benzodiazepines. Tolerance to diazepam increased the dynamic state of an octadecaneuropeptide (ODN), derived from DBI, in the cerebellum and cortex. The steady state or dynamic state of ODN were not changed in other structures of the brain of the rat, tolerant to diazepam.
Diazepam binding inhibitor (DBI) belongs to a family of newly discovered neuropeptides that, when acting on the benzodiazepine/beta-carboline recognition site, provide an allosteric modulation of the function of GABAA receptor. The molecular size of DBI (10K Da) and its amino acid sequence characteristics are compatible with the view that this polypeptide can function as a precursor of smaller biologically active neuropeptides. In neurons of the cerebral cortex of the neonatal rat, in primary culture, DBI coexists with at least 4 different processing products. These peptides immunoreact with an antiserum directed against a biologically active octadecaneuropeptide (ODN) amino acid sequence of which (QATVGDVNTDRPGLLDLK) is included in the middle portion of the amino acid sequence of DBI. One of the immunoreactive peptides extracted from neurons has a retention time in high pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC) identical to that of synthetic ODN. Double immunofluorescence staining of the cultured neurons with glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) and antibodies for ODN indicates that ODN and ODN-like peptides are localized with GABA in 58% of the GAD-positive neurons. Moreover, the proportion of the neuronal stores of GABA, ODN, DBI-like peptides and DBI that are released together following depolarization with veratridine is similar. These experiments provide evidence to suggest that ODN, ODN-like peptides derived from DBI, might participate as putative neuromodulators of physiological significance in changing the probability that a quantum of GABA opens specific chloride (Cl-) channels located on post-synaptic cell membranes.
Light microscopic study and cell counts of the inferior olivary nucleus were performed in adult mouse (+/sg), i.e. heterozygous for the staggerer gene. Two, six, and twelve-month-old animals were studied and compared to (+/+) C57BL6J mice of the same age. The number of cells and their repartition within the four subnuclei of the inferior olivary nucleus were normal in 2-month-old (+/sg) mice but a cell loss appears afterwards and mostly between 6 and 12 months so that about 30% of the olivary cells are missing in (+/sg) mice aged 12 months. The deficit affects the four inferior olivary nucleus subnuclei but predominates in the dorsal accessory olive. This cell loss is the first described expression of the mutation in the (+/sg) mouse, and it is not yet known if the inferior olivary nucleus represents a primary site of gene action or if the deficit is secondary to a hitherto unnoticed abnormality in the heterozygous (+/sg) mouse.
A total of 47 tectal neurons of the weakly electric fish, Eigenmannia, were studied physiologically and labelled by intracellular injection of Lucifer Yellow. With the exception of two cell types, all cells could be classified in accordance with the Golgi studies of Sas and Maler. The dominant stimulus modality of neurons was correlated with their laminar location. Neurons of the stratum opticum only responded to visual stimuli, such as modulations of the light level or the motion of an object. They showed, however, no directional preferences for motion. Neurons of the stratum griseum centrale were predominantly driven by electrosensory stimuli, most often those associated with the movement of an object, and generally were very sensitive to the direction of motion. Integration of different sensory modalities was found in neurons with dendrites invading laminae with different sensory inputs. In addition, small axons of interneurons appear to relay information across laminae. Large multipolar neurons in the deep tectum responded to the motion of objects, often preferring a particular direction of motion. Some of these large multipolar neurons of the deep tectum also discriminated the sign of the frequency difference between a mimic of a neighbor's sinusoidal electric organ discharge and the animal's own signal. These neurons are potential candidates for the control of the jamming avoidance response. These neurons were morphologically indistinguishable from large multipolar neurons of the deep tectum that either responded to moving objects or to acoustical stimuli. Individual large cells of the deep tectum project to various targets (Fig. 1) and probably contribute to the control of different behavioral responses. This suggests that the nature of such responses would then depend upon the constitution of sets of neurons recruited by a given stimulus situation, and the role of individual tectal neurons would neither be particularly specific nor very significant.
The incorporation rate of [3H]fucose, N-6-[3H]acetyl-D-glucosamine and [3H]proline has been compared in five regions of the mouse brain on postnatal day 6. The olfactory bulbs and the cerebellum showed a prevalence of incorporation of [3H]fucose over other brain regions. Less expressed, but still well evident regional differences were observed in [3H]proline incorporation while the incorporation of N-6-[3H]acetyl-D-glucosamine was almost equal in all brain regions. The regional differences were also apparent after considering an actual pool of free isotopes in the individual regions. Gel electrophoresis of [3H]fucose-labelled membrane fraction showed that the higher incorporation of [3H]fucose in the olfactory bulbs is partly due to higher synthesis of low molecular weight glycoproteins, especially in the molecular range of 30,000. The data showed that the protein synthesis and fucosylation, and/or a fast transport of the corresponding molecules, varies more within the brain than the incorporation of N-6-[3H]acetyl-D-glucosamine and possibly also than the &quot;core&quot; part of glycan molecule synthesis.
Transganglionic transport of horseradish peroxidase or lectin-conjugated horseradish peroxidase from an application site in the cervical trunk of the glossopharyngeal (IXth cranial) nerve of the rat produced extraperikaryal reaction product characteristic of axon terminal processes in three regions of the brain stem: (1) the nucleus of the tractus solitarius, from approximately 2.5 mm rostral to the obex to approximately 3 mm caudal to the obex; (2) the spinal trigeminal nucleus at the level of obex; (3) the cuneate fasciculus, approximately 3 mm caudal to the obex. In contrast, labelling of the carotid sinus nerve, a branch of the glossopharyngeal nerve which conveys chemoreceptor and baroreceptor afferent fibers from the carotid bifurcation, revealed a restricted central projection to within 1 mm of the obex and corresponding to the intermediate region of the glossopharyngeal nerve projection to the nucleus of the tractus solitarius. Two distinct aggregations of label were observed: (1) rostral to the obex, within the lateral and dorsomedial subnuclei of the nucleus of the tractus solitarius; (2) caudal to the obex, within the commissural and ventrolateral subnuclei of the nucleus of the tractus solitarius. Between these two sites the density of labelling was reduced. Retrogradely labelled neurons were demonstrated in the inferior salivatory nucleus and in the nucleus ambiguus after application of lectin-conjugated horseradish peroxidase to the glossopharyngeal nerve. Of the labelled neurons in the nucleus ambiguus (approximately 100), 25% contributed fibers to the carotid sinus nerve. The concentration of extraperikaryal reaction product located rostral to the obex after labelling of the carotid sinus nerve closely matches descriptions of the region of afferent terminations from carotid and aortic baroreceptors in the cat. The concentration of label caudal to the obex may therefore correspond to the region of afferent terminations from carotid chemoreceptors. This study may therefore provide some basis for a separation of the central synapses of primary afferent fibers from the carotid baroreceptors and chemoreceptors in the rat. The labelled neurons of the nucleus ambiguus provide the anatomical substrate for centrifugal control of carotid chemoreceptor activity.
The histopathologic effects of different doses of ethylcholine mustard aziridinium ion infused into the caudate-putamen complex or nucleus basalis were evaluated in rats. Although no non-specific tissue damage was observed at the lowest doses of ethylcholine mustard aziridinium ion examined--0.01 nmol in 1-microliter vehicle and 0.02 nmol in 2-, 5-, and 10-microliters vehicle in both the striatum and nucleus basalis--minimal but definite non-selective pathology, characterized by gliosis and loss of all neuronal elements in the region affected by the nitrogen mustard, was observed in both targets at a dose of 0.02 nmol 1 microliter and more severely at all doses containing 0.05 and 0.1 nmol ethylcholine mustard aziridinium ion. At doses of ethylcholine mustard aziridinium ion containing 0.2 nmol of the cytotoxin and greater amounts, non-specific cell loss in intact tissue and extensive cavitation became increasingly the most prominent histologic features of drug action. No statistically significant effects of ethylcholine mustard aziridinium ion on striatal choline acetyltransferase activities were found until doses of 0.4 nmol/1 microliter or greater were injected, concentrations of the cytotoxin at which appreciable non-specific pathology was also observed. Levels of dopamine in the caudate-putamen nucleus were reduced by comparatively greater amounts than choline acetyltransferase at doses of 2.5 nmol/2 microliters, 5.0 nmol/2 microliters and 10 nmol/2 microliters cytotoxin, but a significant effect of ethylcholine mustard aziridinium ion on striatal L-glutamate decarboxylase activity was found only at a dose of 10 nmol/2 microliters. As no dose of ethylcholine mustard aziridinium ion was found that reduced choline acetyltransferase without producing considerable non-specific tissue destruction, the usefulness of the cytotoxin in studying the behavioral and physiological consequences of selective cholinergic hypofunction in the brain must be questioned.
Transplantation of fetal preoptic area tissue containing gonadotropin-releasing hormone neurons into the third ventricle of male hypogonadal mice resulted in an elevation of pituitary gonadotropin levels and correction of hypogonadism. This reversal of the neuroendocrine deficit was correlated with innervation of the median eminence by gonadotropin-releasing hormone axons. The specificity of fiber outgrowth suggested that local neuromodulatory factors might guide these axons to the nearby median eminence. To test this hypothesis, 14 adult hypogonadal males received unilateral fetal preoptic area grafts into the lateral ventricle, a site distant from the median eminence. After four months, healthy grafts containing numerous gonadotropin-releasing hormone neurons were seen in 9 hosts. However, none of these grafts corrected the hypogonadism of the host and there was no gonadotropin-releasing hormone innervation of the median eminence in any of these animals, thus demonstrating that the presence of gonadotropin-releasing hormone neurons in the ventricular space is itself not sufficient to stimulate the pituitary-gonadal axis. Instead, gonadotropin-releasing hormone axons coursed in the host fimbria, fornix, corpus callosum, and stria terminalis. These fibers could be traced into the anterior hippocampal area, medial and lateral septum, and the anterior hypothalamus. The distribution of these fibers included a number of regions which receive gonadotropin-releasing hormone fiber input in the normal mouse. These findings show that gonadotropin-releasing hormone neurons transplanted into the lateral ventricle can survive and extend processes into the host brain, often projecting to sites of normal gonadotropin-releasing hormone innervation. Their success in contacting these sites suggests that gonadotropin-releasing hormone fiber outgrowth may be influenced by regionally specified trophic and/or guidance factors.
CG7 is a monoclonal antibody that recognizes cytochrome b561, a major protein component of adrenal medullary chromaffin granules. Immunocytochemical studies using this antibody have demonstrated that cytochrome b561 is present in many neural and endocrine tissues and that its distribution is correlated with the presence of either catecholamines or amidated peptides in the tissue. These tissues include neuronal cell bodies and/or fibers in the gut, blood vessels, retina, and posterior pituitary, endocrine cells of the gut, anterior and intermediate lobes of the pituitary, heart muscle, and all adrenal medullary chromaffin cells. The discovery of cytochrome b561 in many neuropeptide-containing tissues regardless of the presence of catecholamines is consistent with a general role for cytochrome b561 as a secretory granule membrane electron carrier. Its expression may be linked to an ascorbic acid requirement by both catecholamine and neuropeptide biosynthetic enzymes.
The distribution of atrial natriuretic factor-like immunoreactivity in the central nervous system of the frog Rana ridibunda was investigated by indirect immunofluorescence and the immunogold technique, using an antiserum generated in rabbits against synthetic atrial natriuretic factor (Arg 101-Tyr 126). A stereotaxic atlas of neurons containing atrial natriuretic factor-like material was prepared to show the widespread distribution of atrial natriuretic factor-positive cell bodies and fibres in the brain. Appreciable numbers of immunoreactive perikarya were observed in the dorsal and medial pallium, the medial septal nucleus, the anteroventral and ventrolateral areas of the thalamus, the lateral forebrain bundle, the posterocentral and posterolateral thalamic nuclei, the preoptic nucleus, the dorsal infundibular nucleus and the anteroventral tegmental nucleus of the mesencephalon. A heavy accumulation of atrial natriuretic factor-like immunoreactive cell bodies and very dense fibre bundles were noted in the interpeduncular nucleus of the mesencephalon. Fibres were generally seen where cell bodies were observed, particularly in all regions of the pallium and septum nuclei, in the ventral thalamus, the infundibular nucleus and the tegmental area. Moderate numbers of fibres were also noted in several regions where cell bodies were absent, mainly in the amygdala and the infundibular nucleus, the median eminence and most mesencephalic regions. At the electron microscopic level, the immunoreactivity was restricted to dense core vesicles and absent in clear vesicles. These results provide the first evidence for the presence of atrial natriuretic factor in the brain of a non-mammalian chordate. The localization of atrial natriuretic factor-positive material in the frog central nervous system suggests that this peptide may act as a neuromodulator or a neurotransmitter in amphibians.
The effects of 2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-7,8-dihydroxy-1-phenyl-1H-3-benzazepine (SKF 38393) (D1 agonist) on the motor behaviour of mice rendered hypokinetic with reserpine, were studied in the absence and presence of additional treatment with N-n-propyl-N-phenylethyl-p(3-hydroxyphenyl)ethylamine hydrochloride (RU 24213), lisuride (D2 agonists) or apomorphine (mixed D1/D2 agonist). Three hours after reserpine (5 mg/kg) stimulating dopamine D2 receptors evoked slow, ponderous walking and head-down sniffing. SKF 38393 (1.5-15 mg/kg) had no direct effect of its own, but greatly amplified the D2 response, giving more fluent locomotion, rearing and grooming. The facilitatory action of SKF 38393 was inhibited by the D1 antagonist (R)-(+)-8-chloro-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-3-methyl-5-phenyl-1H-3-benzazepin l -7-ol (SCH 23390) (0.05 mg/kg), whereas D2-mediated responses were sensitive both to SCH 23390 and the D2 antagonist metoclopramide (0.5 mg/kg). Mice treated with reserpine for 24 h became more sensitive to the motor stimulant actions of all four agonists. SKF 38393 now promoted rapid locomotion, rearing and grooming directly. The effects of D2 stimulation were weak by comparison and often antagonistic (not synergistic) with those of the D1 agonist. Both sets of agonists were now attenuated only by their respective antagonists. Reserpine caused pronounced falls in the concentrations of dopamine, 5-hydroxytryptamine and noradrenaline in the striatum, olfactory tubercle and cerebral cortex, with correspondingly elevated metabolite levels. These results indicate that D1 and D2 agonists at doses that are relatively ineffective at stimulating behaviour when given in isolation 3 h after reserpine, interact when given together to partially restore locomotion, rearing and grooming. This interaction is not apparent 24 h post-reserpine, a time at which D1 and D2 agonists produce significant effects of their own.
The generation of long-term potentiation of synaptic transmission in area CA1 of hippocampal slices of the guinea-pig has been examined in solutions containing low concentrations of magnesium ions. It was found that the induction of long-term potentiation is greatly facilitated in slices perfused with 0.1 mM magnesium but much less so with 0.5 mM magnesium solution. The long-term potentiation evoked by brief tetanization in 0.1 mM magnesium was prevented following application of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate. Moreover, the response to tetanization, recorded in the dendritic layer, contained a much greater than normal component blocked by 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate. The latter represents current through postsynaptic N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor channels, suggesting that the facilitation of long-term potentiation is related to a facilitated opening of these channels. The results support the notion that the generation of long-term potentiation is related to current through N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor channels which is under the control of extracellular magnesium ions.
Acetylcholine (ACh) was administered iontophoretically to single neurons in cat somatosensory cortex. Using extracellular recording techniques, neuronal responsiveness was determined at regular intervals from the number of action potentials produced either by iontophoretically applied glutamate or by tactile stimulation of the cutaneous receptive field. The responses were altered in only 21% (13/61) of the neurons following the application of ACh alone. In contrast, 75% (66/88) of the neurons displayed altered responses during administration of ACh simultaneously with either iontophoretically administered glutamate or with tactile stimulation of the receptive field. Forty-seven percent (29/62) of the responses potentiated in the presence of ACh remained enhanced for periods lasting from 8 min to over 1 h. The responsiveness of cortical neurons to afferent inputs changes during the reorganization of somatotopic maps that occurs after deafferentation, and perhaps during some forms of learning. As ACh has been implicated in some of these processes, it may be that the changes in responsiveness observed here following iontophoretically applied ACh are similar to those which facilitate the acquisition of neuronal responses to altered or novel afferent inputs.
Somatostatin 28- and neuropeptide Y-containing innervations were mapped in the human medial forebrain (eight control brains) with immunohistochemistry, using the sensitive avidin-biotin-peroxidase method. Peptidergic perikarya and fibers had an extensive distribution: they were densest in the ventral striatum (nucleus accumbens, olfactory tubercle and bed nucleus of the stria terminalis) and infralimbic cortex, of intermediate density in the medial septal area and of lowest density in the dorsal and caudal lateral septal nucleus. Somatostatin-like immunoreactive perikarya and fibers were generally more numerous than the neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactive ones, but more faintly labeled. Their pattern of distribution was strikingly similar in some of the limbic structures studied but clearly distinct in others. Excellent overlap of neuropeptide Y and somatostatin-like immunoreactivity was detected in: (1) the medial septal area, where innervation occasionally formed perivascular clusters; (2) the nucleus accumbens and olfactory tubercle, characterized by dense patchy innervation; and (3) the laterodorsal septal nucleus, scarcely innervated. In the latter structures, most peptidergic neurons were double-labeled. On the other hand, both peptidergic innervations clearly differed in the lateroventral septal nucleus and the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis which contained distinct clusters of somatostatin-like immunoreactive neurons devoid of neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity. Also, the perineuronal and peridendritic axonal plexuses ('woolly fibers') present in these structures were only labeled with somatostatin. In the infralimbic cortex, the relation between the peptides varied according to the cortical laminae. Coexistence of somatostatin and neuropeptide Y frequently occurred in layer VI and in the subcortical white matter, whereas layer V and particularly layers II and III contained a contingent of neurons labeled only with somatostatin. Dense horizontal terminal networks in layers I and VI however were similar for both peptides. These findings support the existence of two different types of somatostatin-like immunoreactive perikarya as regards colocalization with neuropeptide Y. Their particular topographical segregation within the cortical and subcortical structures analysed suggest that they could have different connections and functional properties.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The dendritic morphology of indoleamine amacrine cells in carp retina was investigated by identifying their fluorescent cell bodies by preloading with noradrenaline followed by iontophoretic injection of Lucifer Yellow in isolated and aldehyde-fixed preparations under microscopic control. Although two subpopulations of serotonin-like immunoreactive amacrine cells (small and large in soma size) were found, small cells were not seen in aldehyde-fixed preparations. Cells preloaded with noradrenaline corresponded to large immunoreactive cells and were labeled with Lucifer Yellow. The cell bodies labeled were located at the innermost level of the inner nuclear layer, and gave rise to three to five primary dendrites which branched frequently and were found mainly in sublamina a of the inner plexiform layer. These cells examined in an intermediate region between the optic disc and the retinal periphery were pyriform in soma shape while dendritic fields were found or oval covering an area of 0.18 +/- 0.05 mm2 (510 +/- 80 microns in diameter). Cell density in this region was about 32 cells/mm2 and, therefore, their dendritic field coverage was approximately 6.0.
As a consequence of general hypoxaemia evoked experimentally by bilateral pneumothorax, brain oedema of vasogenic type developed in newborn piglets after 4 h survival. Histamine receptor antagonists, mepyramine (H1-receptor blocker), metiamide, cimetidine and ranitidine (H2-receptor antagonists) were administered either intraperitoneally or intrathecally to check to what extent the formation of brain oedema could be reduced. Mepyramine and ranitidine decreased the accumulation of water, sodium and albumin in the parietal cortex. By measuring the concentration of histamine, the presence of a histamine pool was demonstrated in the cerebral microvessels. The results suggest that histamine, if released upon hypoxic injury from the microvascular store, can take an important part in the development of vasogenic brain oedema.
Intracerebroventricular administration of phelorphan (158 nmol/2 microliters), a blocker of dipeptidylaminopeptidase (enkephalinase B) and other enzymes involved in the enkephalin biodegradation, inhibited in chronic morphine-dependent rats, the occurrence of some of the naloxone-precipitated withdrawal symptoms. This effect of phelorphan was compared with an equimolar dose of the dipeptidyl-carboxypeptidase inhibitor (enkephalinase A), thiorphan. The results indicate that both drugs decrease some of the naloxone-precipitated withdrawal symptoms (writhing, digging, head hiding, chewing, diarrhoea and Straub tail), while others were potentiated (penile licking) or unaltered (wet dog shakes, grooming and rearing). In addition, phelorphan compared with the controls or thiorphan, pretreated animals, increased the frequency of paw tremor, head shakes, scratching, erection and ejaculation, but other symptoms were decreased (stretching) or unaltered (teeth chattering). The results are discussed in light of the differences in permeability and specificity of the two enkephalinase inhibitors. Furthermore, these data support the hypothesis that the use of enkephalinase inhibitors might be a promising way for the attenuation of the severity of the withdrawal syndrome.
The localization of two enkephalin-hydrolysing aminopeptidases i.e. aminopeptidase M (aminopeptidase N, EC 3.4.11.2) relatively insensitive to puromycin (Ki = 78 microM), and a puromycin-sensitive aminopeptidase (Ki = 1 microM) was studied in rat brain. The two aminopeptidases were differentially identified and/or localized using polyclonal anti-aminopeptidase M antibodies displaying anticatalytic activity and the inhibitors puromycin, bestatin and amastatin. Microvessels represent a major localization of cerebral aminopeptidase M as shown by the intense immunostaining of their walls in sections from various regions as well as in a fraction isolated from cerebral cortex homogenates by a sieving procedure. As compared to the starting homogenate, aminopeptidase M activity was enriched about twenty fold in this microvascular fraction. Aminopeptidase M was identified in this fraction by comparing the inhibitory potencies of antibodies and peptidase inhibitors towards the hydrolysis of [tyrosyl-3,5-3H, Met5]enkephalin to those found for the purified enzyme. A rather high aminopeptidase M activity was also localized in choroid plexuses. Following differential and gradient centrifugation analysis of cerebral cortex homogenates, aminopeptidase M activity was also enriched (by five to six fold) in fractions containing synaptic membranes. No significant soluble aminopeptidase M activity could be detected. These data suggest a dual localization of cerebral aminopeptidase M in microvessels and synaptic membranes consistent with its roles in preventing the access of circulating peptides to brain as well as in inactivating neuropeptides released from cerebral neurones. In comparison, puromycin-sensitive aminopeptidase activity, which is about 100 fold higher than aminopeptidase M activity in brain, was relatively low in microvessels and non-detectable in fractions enriched in synaptic membranes, being almost entirely restricted to soluble fractions.
The effects of the convulsants L-allylglycine and bicuculline on the distribution of gamma-amino-butyric acid (GABA), glutamate and aspartate in rat brains were assessed immunocytochemically, using antisera raised against glutaraldehyde-protein conjugates of the respective amino acids. In accord with previous biochemical studies of GABA content, L-allylglycine treatment was followed by a decreased immunoreactivity for GABA in the hippocampus and cerebellum, whereas treatment with bicuculline led to an increased immunoreactivity in the hippocampus, but not in the cerebellum. Different cells and zones were affected differentially. With both convulsants the hippocampus showed the most pronounced changes in the neuropil of the pyramidal and granular cell layers. L-Allylglycine treatment led to a substantial decrease in the concentration of detectable GABA-immunoreactive bouton-like dots in the stratum oriens, radiatum and lacunosum-moleculare and in the deep hilar region, but did not produce statistically significant changes in this parameter in the outer and intermediate zones of the dentate molecular layer. In the cerebellum, the decrease in GABA immunoreactivity after L-allylglycine treatment was less in the basket cell terminals than in other GABA-containing elements. Neither convulsant altered the average staining intensity for aspartate or glutamate in the two regions studied, but L-allylglycine reduced the level of aspartate-like immunoreactivity in hippocampal hilar cells. All the changes described were evident after 20 min of seizure activity and were qualitatively similar after 60 min of seizure (animals paralysed and ventilated). Our results indicate that L-allylglycine or bicuculline given intravenously exerts specific effects on cerebral amino acid metabolism. The nature and magnitude of these effects show inter-regional variations and also differ among cellular compartments within each region. Amino acid immunocytochemistry may prove to be a valuable tool for the investigation of metabolic changes associated with epileptic seizures and should be particularly useful in regions showing heterogeneous changes that would tend to cancel each other in biochemical analyses.
The involvement of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors in synaptic transmission from Schaffer collateral-commissural fibres to CA1 neurons has been investigated in rat hippocampal slices. When the perfusion medium was changed from one containing 1 mM Mg2+ to one with no added Mg2+ there was a pronounced increase in the amplitude of the population spike, the appearance of secondary population spikes and in some slices spontaneous epileptiform discharges developed. The secondary and spontaneous population spikes were abolished by the selective N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist, D-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate. The effects on the primary population spike depended on the strength of synaptic activation. At low intensities, the N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist reduced or abolished this response whereas at high intensities the primary population spike was slightly increased in amplitude by this compound. Mg2+ had dose-dependent (20-500 microM) effects on synaptic responses which were identical to those of D-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate. Increasing the Ca2+ concentration over a range of 1-3 mM also reduced or abolished secondary population spikes and, at low stimulus intensities, the primary population spike. At higher stimulus intensities, however, the primary population spike was insensitive to the Ca2+ concentration over this range. These results demonstrate the major extent to which N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors can contribute to synaptic transmission and epileptiform activity in the CA1 region of the hippocampus. They also show that an important role of Mg2+ in this region is to prevent significant activation of this receptor system during low-frequency synaptic transmission.
We have examined the ultrastructural changes of axons and synaptic boutons in the intracerebellar nuclei of the rat at 3 days to one year after inferior olive lesion performed by means of electrocoagulation or 3-acetylpyridine injection. A large number of preterminal segments and axons terminals undergoes remarkable ultrastructural changes after total or subtotal olivary lesion. Large membrane bound vacuoles and clusters of small synaptic vesicles characterize a good number of these terminals at 3 days up to one month after the lesion. Tightly packed tubules and cisternae of smooth endoplasmic reticulum appear during the first week in an increasing number of axon terminals. Boutons with large whorled bodies formed by smooth membranes increase in number during the second half of the first month and further increase in density until the sixth month. They are still present in large amounts at one year. Immunoreactivity for 3',5'-guanosine-phosphate-dependent protein kinase, which is specific for Purkinje neurons, can be detected in the axons and synaptic terminals displaying the ultrastructural changes described above. These results are discussed in relation to a possible trophic action of the climbing fibers on the Purkinje cells. We suggest that, at least in part, these alterations may be the consequence of the intense Purkinje cell hyperactivity which is present for up to one month from inferior olive lesion.
Studies were made on the effect of the neuroexcitatory agent kainic acid, microinjected into raphe dorsal nucleus by glass micropipette and an air pressure system in doses ranging from 0.2 to 24.0 nmol (in volumes from 0.05 microliter to 0.47 microliter), on the somatosensory evoked potentials and their cycles of recovery (excitability) obtained from cortex (primary somatosensory and parietal associative), thalamus (ventral posterolateral nucleus and centre median nucleus), mesencephalic reticular formation and raphe dorsal nucleus. Kainic acid in doses higher than 3 nmol exerted an activating effect on the evoked potentials and their recovery cycles especially in thalamus and mesencephalic reticular formation. The analysis of these electrophysiological parameters revealed that the non-specific structures were involved to a larger extent in the activating effect of kainic acid than the specific ones. The morphological changes were not severe and were limited to a part of the raphe dorsal nucleus neurons. Our data indicate that kainic acid injected into raphe dorsal nucleus modulates (in direction of facilitation) the somatosensory evoked potentials and their cycles of excitability obtained in some brain structures. The results suggest that this nucleus is involved in the somatosensory information processing in a non-specific manner.
The development of a new 3',5'-cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) antiserum was initiated starting from the following considerations: (a) adequate fixation of cGMP is a prerequisite for a reliable demonstration of soluble cGMP, and (b) fixation might influence the specificity of the immunocytochemical demonstration of cGMP. Therefore, cGMP-protein conjugate was prepared in a way which equals tissue fixation. cGMP was coupled to bovine thyroglobulin using formaldehyde. Antibodies against this conjugate were raised in rabbits. The specificity of the antisera was evaluated in a gelatin model system. No immunoreactivity was observed with nucleotides other than cGMP or with rabbit preimmune sera. Immunoinhibition experiments showed that only the cGMP-formaldehyde-thyroglobulin conjugate and, to a lesser extent free cGMP, absorbed onto the antiserum. In rat brain an extensive localization of cGMP-immunostaining was found. Examples are hippocampus CAI and CAII, and cortical layers II and V. No cGMP-immunostaining was found in the cerebellum. In vitro incubated superior cervical ganglia showed cGMP-immunostaining in the large postganglionic neuronal cell bodies; this cGMP-immunostaining increased upon incubation of the ganglia in iso-osmolar 100 mM K+. In conclusion, we prepared a new-type highly specific antiserum against cGMP, suitable to demonstrate cGMP-immunoreactivity in tissue material.
Naloxone reverses hemorrhagic hypotension in the conscious guinea-pig. Captopril and saralasin impede this naloxone effect, suggesting that angiotensin II is involved in naloxone action. This is compatible with previous work which has shown that B-endorphin inhibits the centrally mediated pressor action of angiotensin II, and that naloxone blocks this effect. Naloxone may be interacting with the postulated brain renin-angiotension II system or may be blocking the action of shock-induced circulating angiotensin II on a centrally located area such as the hypothalamus.
gamma-Aminobutyric acid (GABA) antiserum was applied to sections of rat and guinea-pig intestine which were subsequently processed to reveal any immunoreactivity using either fluorescence or peroxidase techniques. Immunopositive fibres were demonstrated in stomach, duodenum, ileum and colon of rat and guinea-pig intestine. Myenteric ganglia and nerve bundles in the circular muscle contained immunopositive nerve fibres, while the longitudinal muscle, submucosa and mucosa were only rarely innervated. In favourable sections, immunopositive fibres could be seen running from the myenteric plexus into the circular muscle, thus suggesting that the GABA-immunopositive nerves in the circular muscle originate from neurons in the myenteric plexus. In both rat and guinea-pig, immunoreactive nerve cell bodies were most numerous in the myenteric plexus of the colon. In the rat, immunopositive fibres in the circular muscle were most abundant in the ileum, whereas in the guinea-pig it was the colon circular muscle that was most richly innervated. The results demonstrate that neurons which show GABA immunoreactivity are present along the length of the gastrointestinal tract. Their distribution in both myenteric ganglia and circular muscle is heterogeneous both within and between the two species studied. It is probable that this heterogeneity reflects the diversity and specificity of function of this class of enteric neurons.
The supraspinal and spinal mechanisms of morphine-induced inhibition of isometrically recorded reflex urinary bladder contractions were studied in rats anesthetized with urethan. Chronic intracerebroventricular administration of 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine (200 micrograms) or 6-hydroxydopamine (150 micrograms), to selectively deplete central serotoninergic and noradrenergic systems, attenuated the intracerebroventricular effect but not the intrathecal effect of morphine. The intracerebroventricular effect of morphine was reversibly attenuated or abolished by an intrathecal injection of the novel delta-receptor antagonist ICI 174,864 (N,N-diallyl-Tyr-Arb-Aib-Phe-Leu-OH: Aib = alpha-aminoisobutyric acid) (1-3 micrograms) and by intrathecal methysergide (4-10 micrograms), phentolamine (5-10 micrograms), and yohimbine (5-10 micrograms) but not by intrathecal propranolol (10 micrograms), atropine (8 micrograms) or saline (2 micrograms) administered at similar molar concentrations and volumes respectively. These observations support the hypothesis that supraspinal and spinal mechanisms involved in morphine-induced inhibition of reflex urinary bladder contractions can be dissociated. The supraspinal actions of morphine were mediated indirectly via descending 5-hydroxytryptamine and noradrenergic pathways which activated specific 5-hydroxytryptamine and alpha-adrenergic but not beta-adrenergic receptor in the spinal cord. In addition, supraspinal morphine indirectly activated a spinal opioid system which could be directly activated by intrathecal morphine. The similarities between these observations and studies of central pathways mediating nociception and opioid analgesia suggest that similar physiological mechanisms control certain somatic and visceral activity.
The distribution of nerve growth factor receptors in the lumbar spinal cord of the rat was studied with autoradiographic and immunohistochemical techniques: [125I]nerve growth factor and specific monoclonal antibody (Mab 192) against nerve growth factor receptor were used to localize nerve growth factor binding sites. The distributions of nerve growth factor binding sites with highest density within the superficial layers (laminae I and II) of the dorsal gray matter were virtually identical as demonstrated by these two ligands; this suggests that Mab 192 can be used as a specific probe to identify nerve growth factor receptors in rat nervous system. Nerve growth factor receptor binding sites, as demonstrated by autoradiography, were also found in longitudinal bundles of fibers running dorsolaterally in the lateral funiculus. However, no immunoreactivity was detected in these areas by immunohistochemistry. No specific binding was found in the dorsal horn when [125I]nerve growth factor was co-injected with unlabeled nerve growth factor or after incubation with nonspecific monoclonal antibody. Dorsal root section produced a complete loss of nerve growth factor-specific labeling pattern throughout laminae I-II of the spinal cord. This suggests that nerve growth factor receptors are localized on the nerve terminals of primary afferent fibers which synapse in the region of the spinal cord. The presence of nerve growth factor binding sites in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord is consistent with the possibility that nerve growth factor, or a nerve growth factor-like substance, derived from the central nervous system, may have a role in trophic support of dorsal root ganglion neurons.
This paper deals with changes in the arrangement of microfilaments at various stages during the transformation of astroblasts into reactive astrocytes in the presence of dibutyryl 3',5'-cyclic adenosine monophosphate in vitro. When cultures of two-week-old mouse astroblasts are treated with dibutyryl cyclic AMP, drastic changes occur in cell shape and in the organization of microfilaments, resulting in cells that closely resemble reactive astrocytes in vivo. A thick, prominent ring of microfilaments in such cells which stains strongly with 7-nitrobenz-2 oxa-1,3-diazole-phallacidin, delineates the perikaryon. Electron microscope examination showed that the ring is composed of many smaller bundles of microfilaments running parallel to each other. Prominent bundles of microfilaments radiate from the cell body into the cell processes. Based on the observation of intermediate forms, we propose that the microfilament ring may be important in the development of cell processes in reactive astrocytes.
The autoregulation of dopamine release and metabolism by intrastriatal grafts of mesencephalic dopamine neurons was examined in vivo using an intracerebral dialysis technique. Dopamine-rich cell suspension grafts were implanted into the head of the caudate putamen in rats with complete unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesion of the nigrostriatal dopamine pathway. Six months later behavioural tests indicated that the grafts had reversed the lesion-induced rotational behaviour. Extracellular levels of striatal dopamine and its metabolites 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and homovanillic acid were monitored bilaterally in the halothane-anaesthetized grafted rat, both under basal conditions, and also following low (0.05 mg/kg) and high (0.5 mg/kg) doses of the dopamine receptor agonist apomorphine. The perfusate from the grafted striatum showed levels of dopamine which were not statistically different from those of the intact contralateral striatum, indicating that the baseline release of dopamine from the graft was close to normal. Similarly, 3-4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and homovanillic acid levels were well recovered on the grafted side (67% and 52%, respectively, of control values). Consistent with previous observations, levels of the serotonin metabolite 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid measured in perfusate collected from the grafted side was elevated significantly above normal. Subsequent histological analysis revealed large grafts, rich in dopamine-containing neurons (mean +/- SEM number equalled 3138 +/- 630), giving rise to an approximately normal density of dopamine-containing fibres in the area of the host caudate putamen surrounding the probe. Treatment with 0.05 mg/kg (subcutaneous) apomorphine did not affect extracellular dopamine recovered from the grafted striatum, while extracellular DA decreased by a maximum of 30% on the intact side. However, a subsequent injection of 0.5 mg/kg apomorphine produced a large decrease of the dopamine recovered from both the grafted (maximum 40% decrease) and intact striata (maximum 80% decrease). Both the low and the high dose of apomorphine reduced extracellular dopamine metabolite levels, a response which was essentially similar for both the intact and grafted sides. Finally, the dopamine reuptake blocker nomifensine (10(-5) M) added to the perfusion medium produced similar large increases in dopamine in perfusates collected from both grafted and intact striata, while 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and homovanillic acid did not change.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The levels of several constituents of chromaffin granules were determined in rat adrenal medulla after treatment with insulin or reserpine and after hypophysectomy. Insulin treatment induced increased levels of enkephalins, dopamine beta-hydroxylase, the amine carrier and of chromogranin B whereas catecholamines, cytochrome b-561 and chromagranin A remained slightly below control levels. Administration of reserpine led to similar changes with the exception of the enkephalins which increased much less. After hypophysectomy, chromogranin A was reduced to low levels; dopamine beta-hydroxylase, the amine carrier and catecholamines showed an intermediate reduction, whereas the other components remained at control levels. We can conclude that nervous stimulation of the adrenal medulla (by insulin and reserpine) induces the synthesis of enkephalins, dopamine beta-hydroxylase, the amine carrier and chromogranin B whereas the level of chromogranin A apparently depends on corticosteroids. Thus, major components of the secretory content and the membranes of chromaffin granules are regulated separately, which allows the biogenesis of chromaffin granules with a significantly altered composition.
Giant neurons of the red nucleus of the cat were stained intracellularly with horseradish peroxidase and examined using light microscopy, electron microscopy of thin sections, and high voltage electron microscopy of thick sections (2-5 microns). Special attention was paid to the arrangement of dendritic spines and other appendages relative to the distribution of synaptic contacts from known sources. In the region of the neuron known to receive synaptic contacts from the nucleus interpositus of the cerebellum (soma and proximal 200-300 microns of dendrites), the dendrites were relatively unbranched, and free of long spines or complex appendages. The surface of the neurons in this region was covered with a dense layer of short thin appendages that invaginated or penetrated between the synaptic terminals that cover this part of the cells. The small spines received synapses of the types associated both with the cerebellar afferent fibers and with the local inhibitory interneurons. These same terminals made synaptic contacts directly onto the surface of the neurons and onto the lateral surfaces of the spines, suggesting that the spines may serve primarily to increase the available synaptic surface area. The more distal portion of the dendritic field, where cerebellar afferents do not make synaptic contacts, exhibited a dramatically different appearance. The dendrites were much more branched, and exhibited many and varied dendritic appendages. The appendages were of three general types. One was a large protrusion with a cup-shaped head that formed the principal postsynaptic component of a glomerular arrangement also involving an axon terminal and usually a presynaptic dendrite. A second was a long thin filiform process that usually occurred around the glomeruli. This appendage was occasionally postsynaptic. The third was a spherical appendage containing many lysosomal organelles resembling residual bodies. The glomerular dendritic protrusions were very common in the distal portion of the dendritic field, numbering at least 1000 per cell. At least some of the glomeruli are specialized for receipt of synaptic input from the corticorubral pathway, since lesions of sensorimotor cortex resulted in degeneration of the central synaptic terminal in some glomeruli on horseradish peroxidase-injected rubrospinal neurons. These specializations of dendritic structure may contribute to the differences in excitatory postsynaptic potential wave shape between cortical and cerebellar inputs, and they may play a role in the changes in the cortical excitatory postsynaptic potential that develop after lesions of cerebellar inputs.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Three molecular (enzyme) kinetic models have been designed that exhibit the basic properties of associative learning (classical conditioning). The enzyme systems are acted upon by an 'unconditioned' and a 'conditioned' ligand: temporally paired application of the two ligands leads to covalent enzyme modification, which serves as 'memory trace'. The behaviour of the systems has been investigated by computer simulation. Although the models are hypothetic, they do not contain biochemically inconceivable steps. The models demonstrate that already fairly simple molecular events may produce the phenomenology of associative learning.
Spreading depression in the olfactory bulb of rats is an elusive phenomenon, the demonstration of which requires specific conditioning procedures. The present paper describes a simple technique for reliable initiation of bulbar spreading depression with microinjections of potassium acetate. Adult hooded rats were anesthetized with pentobarbital (50 mg/kg) and slow potential changes accompanying spreading depression were recorded with capillary microelectrodes stereotaxically inserted into the olfactory bulb and adjacent forebrain structures. KCl microinjection (0.5-1.0 microliter, 0.134-0.670 mol/l) into the olfactory bulb elicited local depolarization which only exceptionally developed into a propagating spreading depression. Potassium acetate (0.5-1.0 microliter, 0.15 mol/l) injected into the rostral olfactory bulb evoked a negative slow potential wave (amplitude of around 25 mV and duration 30-50 s) propagating at a rate of 3-4 mm/min through all the olfactory bulb layers. Low positive (5 mV) instead of negative waves were recorded in the superficial olfactory nerve layer with reversal in the glomerular layer (200-300 micron). The slow potential decreased in the rostrocaudal direction and expired at the caudal boundary of the olfactory bulb. Bulbar spreading depression never spread to neocortex, and cortical spreading depression never entered into the olfactory bulb but stopped in the anterior olfactory nucleus 7 mm rostral to bregma. Repeated potassium acetate injections into the olfactory bulb occasionally elicited a series of spreading depression waves recurring at regular intervals, probably reflecting reverberation of scroll-shaped waves around the rostrocaudal axis of the olfactory bulb.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Neuronal transmitter stores of the phrenic nerve were labelled under different conditions. Subsequently, transmitter release evoked by electrical nerve stimulation and by a high potassium-low sodium solution was studied. Incubation of the end-plate preparation with [3H]choline at rest led to the synthesis of [3H]acetylcholine which could not be released by electrical nerve stimulation but it was released by high potassium-low sodium solution, independent of the presence of extracellular calcium. When the end-plate preparation was labelled during stimulation at 1 Hz, prolonged periods of electrical nerve stimulation released 83% of the total releasable [3H]transmitter pool in a completely calcium-dependent manner. After exhaustion of the electrically releasable pool, high potassium-low sodium solution still caused a significant outflow. Without a preceding exhaustion of the [3H]acetylcholine pool, high potassium-low sodium solution released a similar amount in the absence of extracellular calcium or after pretreatment with the intracellular calcium chelating substance, Quin-2. When evoked transmitter release was studied at different temperatures (36, 26 and 16 degrees C) Q 10 values of 1.6 and 1.0 were found for the release caused by electrical nerve stimulation and high potassium-low sodium solution (calcium-independent effect), respectively. After labelling during a short interval (2 min) but at a high stimulation rate (50 Hz), only 72% of the releasable [3H]transmitter could be released by electrical nerve stimulation, whereas the outflow due to the calcium-independent effect of high potassium-low sodium solution increased from 17 (labelling during stimulation at 1 Hz) to 28%. It is suggested that the calcium-independent effect of high potassium-low sodium solution reflects the release of acetylcholine from the cytoplasmic compartment, as this outflow occurred after labelling at rest and increased when cytoplasmic synthesis was enhanced by a high loading stimulation. In contrast to high potassium-low sodium solution, propagated nerve activity cannot release acetylcholine synthesized at rest (presumed to be cytoplasmic), but only [3H]acetylcholine synthesized during quantal release (presumed to be vesicular). The absolute requirement of extracellular calcium for electrically stimulated release suggests an exocytotic release mechanism. The low Q 10 value of 1.6 does not fit into the concept of a carrier- or channel-operated release mechanism.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The consequence of loss of cholinergic input on the function of serotonergic neurons has been studied in rat brain after bilateral intracerebroventricular injections of various doses of the cholinotoxin ethylcholine aziridinium ion (1 to 5 nmoles/ventricle). This treatment resulted in a dose-dependent decrease in acetylcholine content in hippocampus, which occurred 2 days after injection and persisted during the 28 day observation period. The reduction in acetylcholine content ranged from 50.3 +/- 6.0% to 76.9 +/- 3.8% when compared to vehicle-injected rats. Other brain areas, including cortex, striatum and hypothalamus, showed only minor and transient changes in acetylcholine levels. Treatment with ethylcholine aziridinium was accompanied by a dose-dependent response of serotonergic neurons. The predominant reaction, which we observed in all areas studied, was an initial increase in 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid content, a decrease in serotonin content, and consequently an increase in the molar ratio of metabolite/amine, indicating an increase in serotonin turnover. As with acetylcholine, the decrease in serotonin content was most pronounced in the hippocampus, ranged from 19.4 +/- 2.9% to 53.4 +/- 4.1%, and even persisted at 28 days after injection of 3 and 5 nmoles of the toxin/ventricle, although serotonin levels returned towards normal at that time point after injection of 1 or 2 nmoles of the toxin/ventricle. These data suggest that, in the rat, withdrawal of cholinergic input to the hippocampus might have a considerable impact on serotonergic function. This includes an initial increase in activity and, as cholinergic degeneration progresses, a decrease in serotonergic function. The most likely explanation for the serotonergic deficit is that it may reflect adaptation of these neurons to the withdrawal of cholinergic input. Such a phenomenon might help to increase our understanding of the events taking place in the brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease as the cholinergic system starts to degenerate.
Calcineurin, a multifunctional Ca2+ (divalent cations)-dependent calmodulin-stimulated phosphoprotein phosphatase, has been reported to be present in the striatal neurons which project to the globus pallidus and the substantia nigra. In the present study, we examined what types of cells in the rat striatum express calcineurin. The calcineurin-positive neurons were of medium size (mean diameter of 16 microns) and constituted about 60-70% of the total neuronal population in the striatum. Under light microscopy, the calcineurin-positive neurons had round, triangular, or polygonal cell bodies with a relatively small amount of cytoplasm. Electron microscopic examination of 20 randomly selected striatal calcineurin-immunoreactive neurons revealed that their nuclei did not show any invaginations or intranuclear inclusions. The calcineurin-positive neurons were characterized by Golgi impregnation as the densely spinous type. On the other hand, it was demonstrated that calcineurin-positive neurons are a separate population from the diisopropylfluorophosphate-acetylcholinesterase-positive cells or nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase-positive cells, by means of the combination of immunocytochemistry and enzyme histochemistry. In addition, simultaneous localization of calcineurin and substance P in a single cell was observed in some striatal neurons using a double immunostaining method. On the basis of these findings, it was considered that most calcineurin-immunoreactive neurons in the rat striatum may be classified as medium-size densely spiny neurons.
I have prepared a number of monoclonal antibodies to chromaffin cell membranes. One of these antibodies recognizes a number of antigenically related proteins that are present in all tissues examined. In the adrenal, these proteins are completely excluded from chromaffin granules but are present in other subcellular membrane fractions. This non-granule membrane-specific antibody has been designated NG3. A second antibody, CG7, binds to a single protein which segregates specifically into chromaffin granules. The protein recognized by CG7 is cytochrome b561, or chromomembrin B, one of the major protein components of chromaffin granule membranes. CG7 also labels a protein (the identical cytochrome b561) in bovine posterior pituitary neurosecretory vesicle membranes indicating that it functions in both peptidergic and catecholaminergic secretory granules. These two monoclonal antibodies provide useful probes of both granule and extra-granule membrane proteins for studies of membrane trafficking in chromaffin cells.
Early and late brain distribution of iodine-labelled N,N,N'-trimethyl-N'-(2-hydroxy-3-methyl-5-iodobenzyl)-1,3-propanediamine (HIPDM) and iodine labelled N-isopropyl-p-iodoamphetamine (IMP) were compared in rat and one human patient with a recent stroke in the right middle cerebral artery area. In rat, an important 'redistribution' of cerebral activity was observed in various areas of the brain, mainly white matter, whereas no such observation was made with HIPDM. In the patient, the right area was hypoactive during the early SPECT with IMP and HIPDM, and redistribution was observed in the late SPECT only with IMP. We suggest that while HIPDM appears to reflect regional cerebral perfusion, IMP distribution is dependent upon metabolic brain activity.
Amines like N-isopropyl-p-123I-iodoamphetamine (IMP) and hydroxy 123I-iodobenzyl propyl diamine (HIPDM) associated with brain tomoscintigraphy have proved their worth for detecting ischaemic abnormalities. Even though the chemistry of their metabolism and their biodistribution are not fully understood, their application in the study of parenchymal impairment in stroke and reversible ischaemia yields additional information compared to the other methods of imaging like CT or MRI. The concept of a steady state in brain with a wash in/wash out model has been considered especially with IMP, to explain the evolution of the activity pattern with time when comparing early and delayed images. (This review leads to foresee the prognosis of of ischaemic diseases when redistribution is taken into account.)

A computerized motor activity data collection and analysis system is described. An example of the utilization of the Digiscan system is provided, in which motor activity patterns induced by three N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonists and the dissociative anesthetic, ketamine, are compared. All of these compounds produce a distinct pattern of motor activity characterized by an increase in distance traveled, movement time, speed and perimeter walking, with a decrease in vertical activity. Recently described links between NMDA and phencyclidine (PCP) binding sites may account for these findings. The utility of computerized motor activity apparatus is clearly demonstrated.




Previous investigations of the potential value of postoperative environmental enrichment in enhancing functional recovery in brain-lesioned rats have yielded contradictory results. The present study sought to resolve some of the contradictions by drawing a clear distinction between the contribution of environmental enrichment to the processes of compensation for sensory loss and recovery per se. By using unilateral lesions, thus avoiding total loss in any sensory modality, and examining a behavioural deficit not anyway thought to be, primarily, a consequence of sensory loss, it was hoped to arrive at an experimental test in which reinstatement of preoperative performance would necessarily reflect recovery rather than compensation. Recovery from the effects of large unilateral neocortical removals on performance on the 'bracelets' test, recently proposed by Schallert and Whishaw, Behavioural Neuroscience, 1984, 98: 518-540, as a model of simultaneous extinction in humans, was investigated. Lesions significantly impaired bracelet removal from the contralateral paw and a degree of recovery from this impairment was observed. However, recovery was not enhanced by postoperative environmental enrichment. The reasons for this were discussed and possible explanations of the recovery that did occur were considered. Implications for Schallert and Whishaw's model were also discussed. It was concluded that the present results were consistent with the view that any restorative value that postoperative environmental enrichment may have lies in facilitating compensation rather than recovery.
Injection of thymosin fraction 5 (TF5) or the supernatant fluid from concanavalin A-stimulated rat spleen cells into mice significantly increased plasma concentrations of corticosterone at 1 or 3 h. However, measurement of the concentrations of the catecholamines, norepinephrine and dopamine, the indoleamine, serotonin, and their major metabolites, in prefrontal cortex, parietal cortex, nucleus accumbens, septum, caudate-putamen, hypothalamus, and brain stem did not indicate any statistically significant changes. Nor was there any alteration in splenic norepinephrine content. These data suggest that TF5 and lymphokines do not cause a generalized stress response, but rather a selective activation of the pituitary-adrenal axis, probably by causing release of adrenocorticophic hormone from the pituitary. There was no evidence that the corticotropin-releasing activity of TF5 was related to an effect on hypothalamic biogenic amines. These data are discussed in the light of previous results obtained with lymphokine-containing supernatant fluids.


Much recent activity in the neurosciences relates to the search for the brain mechanisms underlying learning and memory. In recent years a brain circuit in cerebellum and brainstem has been discovered that is responsible for the learning of a simple motor response (nictitating membrane movement). This has provided a model for neuroscientists to use in understanding the brain circuits involved in this simple form of learning and, by extension, to more complex forms ultimately, and a means of exploring the changes in neural function underlying the learning. An enduring change in neural function is represented by long-term potentiation (LTP), an alteration in synaptic efficacy seen in hippocampus and other areas. LTP can be induced experimentally and occurs as a concomitant of learning. We review data suggesting that different brain circuits may underlie different forms of learning and memory. Several current theories of learning and memory with respect to hippocampal and other brain circuit involvement are considered. We conclude with the behavioral and physiological effects of exposure to teratogens or toxins and the CNS alterations associated with dementia.
This essay, written as a contribution to the June 1987 participation by the NINCDS in the celebration of the centennial of the NIH (dated from the founding of the Hygienic Laboratory at Staten Island in 1887), discusses the impact of the NINDB/NINCDS on the neurosciences. Contrasts are drawn with the status of basic and clinical neurosciences in the late 19th century and prior to 1950, when the NINDB was established. This impact has involved its role as advocate and focal point for the support of research and research training in the neurosciences; the training of research and academic personnel and the funding of research projects, both significant factors in the postwar proliferation of methods and technologies; and the catalyzing of the steady progress in scientific knowledge, as reflected in examples from various facets of the programs of the neurological institute, in a continuum from the very basic and fundamental to the very clinical and pathological neurosciences.
Synaptic connections between retinal cells were studied by recording simultaneously from pre- and postsynaptic cells in the retinal slice preparation. The time course and waveform of the pre- and postsynaptic light responses were monitored, and the postsynaptic voltage responses to presynaptic current injection were measured. Results obtained provide direct evidence showing that the rod-HBC and rod-HC synapses are sign-preserving, and the rod-DBC, HC-HBC and amacrine-DBC synapses are sign-inverting. Moreover, the synaptic delays between rods and bipolar cells are shorter than that between rods and horizontal cells. The methodology of making retinal slices and the subsequent recording and stimulation procedures are described. The advantages of the retinal slice preparation and its potential in retinal research are discussed.
The role of hemispheric laterality and emotion in the stroke population has been studied less than in other brain-damaged populations. Neuroscience nurses caring for stroke patients need knowledge about the anatomical placement of ischemic deficits and the relationship of emotions to that placement to understand observed affect and behavior. Knowing how to assess negative affect and behavior will help nurses design interventions to produce optimal recovery.
1. Intracellular recordings were obtained from thirty-eight rat supraoptic nucleus (s.o.n.) neurosecretory neurones in perfused hypothalamic explants. Changes in membrane potential and conductance were monitored following application of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), and related agonists and antagonists. 2. GABA depressed action potential discharge of all of thirty-five s.o.n. neurones tested and induced either membrane hyperpolarization or depolarization. Neurones that displayed membrane hyperpolarization in response to lower GABA concentrations (30-300 microM) demonstrated a biphasic membrane voltage change with a later depolarizing phase as a response to higher concentrations (up to 3000 microM). 3. GABA (10-3000 microM) induced a prominent concentration-dependent increase in membrane conductance in all neurones. The critical slope for the log-log plot of [GABA] vs. GABA-induced membrane conductance was 1.7, indicating co-operativity in the GABA receptor-induced conductance change. 4. Muscimol (0.3-30 microM) potently mimicked all the effects of GABA. Bicuculline (1-100 microM) antagonized the effects of GABA and muscimol in a competitive manner. 5. Glycine and taurine (1-10 mM) had weak effects, although comparatively similar to those of GABA. These actions were blocked both by bicuculline (100 microM) and by strychnine (1 microM). At higher concentrations (greater than 10 microM), strychnine also antagonized the actions of GABA. 6. In recordings with potassium-acetate-filled micropipettes, the reversal potential of hyperpolarizing membrane voltage responses to GABA was -72.5 +/- 1.5 mV in close agreement (+/- 5 mV) with the reversal potential of inhibitory post-synaptic potentials (i.p.s.p.s) recorded in the same neurones. Depolarizing responses to GABA reversed polarity at -50 +/- 1.6 mV. In recordings with KCl-filled micropipettes, voltage responses to GABA were always depolarizing and reversed near -40.0 +/- 4.3 mV. Similarly, reduction of the concentration of chloride ions in the perfusion medium from 134 to 10.4 mM induced a positive shift of the GABA reversal potential by 40-50 mV. 7. From measurements of input resistance (Rin) and cell time constant (tau O), input capacitance (Cin; representing total membrane capacitance) was calculated as 78.9 +/- 2.1 pF. During responses to GABA or muscimol, decreased Rin was accompanied by a linearly related decrease in tau o indicating that these substances had no effect on the membrane capacitance of s.o.n. neurones.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Day-old chicks were trained on a one-trial passive avoidance task by pecking at a small, shiny bead coated with either a bitter-tasting substance (methylanthranilate) or water. The undifferentiated spontaneous multi-unit activity recorded bilaterally from anaesthetized chicks 1-13 h after training on the above task exhibited a significant increase in the methylanthranilate-trained over water-control chicks within three structures of the right hemisphere: the hyperstriatum accessorium (47%, P less than 0.05), the medial hyperstriatum ventrale (49.1%, P less than 0.02) and the medial portion of the paleostriatum augmentatum (47.5%, P less than 0.02). Within the multi-unit record obtained from both groups of chicks there were periods of short duration (15-20 ms) containing high-frequency (400-450 Hz) large-amplitude (greater than or equal to 200 microV; 450 microV max peak-to-peak) spikes. As a consequence of training, there was a massive increase in the occurrence of these bursting epochs in the medial hyperstriatum ventrale of both the left (320%, P less than 0.001) and right (350%, P less than 0.001) hemispheres in methylanthranilate-trained compared to water-trained chicks. In addition, the mean number of spikes per burst at this site increased by 66% (P less than 0.001) with no change observed in any other structure sampled. The statistically significant increase in activity within the right hyperstriatum accessorium and medial paleostriatum augmentatum and the non-significant increase in these structures in the left hemisphere was produced almost entirely by tonic spiking. Enhanced spontaneous multi-unit activity recorded under anaesthesia following passive avoidance training in the chick is shown here to be a feature common to several medial forebrain structures. The magnitude of the elevation in bursting frequency and the degree of localization of this effect to the medial hyperstriatum ventrale of methylanthranilate trained chicks would appear to offer strong support to previous biochemical and morphological evidence implicating this structure in the process of memory consolidation for this task. The data reported here represent the first evidence of electrophysiological changes occurring as a consequence of passive avoidance training in the domestic chick.
The rat pineal gland receives sympathetic innervation, via the right and left internal carotid nerves, from neurons whose cell bodies are located in the two superior cervical ganglia. Using fluorescence microscopy, we have examined the density and distribution of fluorescent profiles in the pineal gland after lesioning of the internal carotid nerves. Thirty-two hours after sectioning both internal carotid nerves, the density of the fluorescent profiles was 3% of that seen in sham-operated controls, indicating that the lesioned fibers had degenerated. Thirty-two hours after sectioning one internal carotid nerve, the density of the processes was decreased to approximately 50% of the control value. The magnitude of the decrease following a unilateral lesion was similar on both the right and left halves of the gland. Thus, the results suggest that each internal carotid nerve innervates both sides of the pineal gland. The implications of this overlap in the innervation from the two internal carotid nerves for recovery of pineal function after a unilateral lesion are discussed. Sections of pineal glands were also analyzed at later time points after a unilateral lesion. Two weeks after cutting one internal carotid nerve, the density of the fluorescent profiles had increased to greater than 80% of the control value. When the contralateral internal carotid nerve was cut 2 weeks after a unilateral lesion and the pineal gland was examined 32 h later, the density of the fluorescent profiles had decreased to 2% of the sham value. This suggests that all of the compensatory increase in adrenergic processes that takes place following the unilateral lesion is due to sprouting of the contralateral internal carotid nerve rather than to regeneration of the lesioned internal carotid nerve or to sprouting and ingrowth of other adrenergic neurons. It remains to be determined what, if any, functional significance this sprouting has, since the neurally dependent circadian rhythm in serotonin N-acetyltransferase activity in the pineal gland is restored to normal within 32 h after a unilateral lesion; that is, before significant sprouting has occurred.
It was demonstrated with autoradiographic methods that a tract of thin fibers, which is for the most part distinct from the brachium conjunctivum and its crossed descending limb, can be followed from the cerebellar nuclei to the inferior olive. Neurons from all regions of the interposed and dentate nuclei contribute to this tract. With two fluorescent tracers, Fast Blue and Diamidino Yellow Dihydrochloride, the perikarya of neurons in the cerebellar nuclei that project to the inferior olive or thalamus were identified and the possibility of collateral projections from single neurons to both regions was investigated. Numerous retrogradely labeled neurons were seen in the contralateral interposed and dentate nuclei but no double-labeled cells were ever encountered. The mean diameters of the cells projecting to the inferior olive were between 15 and 20 microns while the mean diameters for those projecting to the nucleus ventrolateralis of thalamus were between 25 and 35 microns. Differences in the morphology of the two cell populations were noted. It was also found that the fastigio-olivary projection is small, terminating mainly contralaterally, in the caudal medial accessory olive and subnucleus beta. It is concluded that cerebello-olivary fibers are not collaterals of the cerebellothalamic projection and that there are two different populations of neurons in the cerebellar nuclei that give rise to these distinct efferent projections.
In vitro binding sites for [125I]iodohydroxyphenylisopropyladenosine, an A1 adenosine agonist, were visualized in the CA1 area of the rat hippocampus by electron microscopical autoradiography. By fixing hippocampal slices after incubation in paraformaldehyde and osmium tetroxide, the specifically bound radioactive ligands were preferentially retained and cross-linked to the tissue. Autoradiographic silver grains were localized by a statistical evaluation according to the '50% probability circle analysis' and by measuring the distance of the grains from neighbouring membrane structures. A significant association of silver grains, indicating the presence of A1 adenosine receptors, was found at synaptic complexes and in addition at extrasynaptic sites on dendritic membranes. This suggests that modulation of nerve cell activity by adenosine involves synaptic as well as non-synaptic mechanisms.
The distribution of binding sites for the neuropeptide cholecystokinin octapeptide in the rat hippocampal region was studied by using quantitative in vitro receptor autoradiography. Biochemical analysis of [3H]cholecystokinin octapeptide binding to tissue sections of the hippocampal region showed it to be of high affinity, to be saturable and approximately 50% specific at saturating concentrations. The binding of [3H]cholecystokinin octapeptide to hippocampal sections was dose-dependently blocked by cholecystokinin octapeptide, cholecystokinin and by pentagastrin. The autoradiographic analysis showed high densities of [3H]cholecystokinin octapeptide binding sites in the hilus of the area dentata, the outer three layers of the retrosplenial area and the presubiculum, layer 3 of the medial, but not the lateral, entorhinal area and the deep and superficial parts of layer 1 and 2, respectively of both the medial and the lateral entorhinal area. Medium binding densities were found in the parasubiculum and remaining layers of the entorhinal area and low densities occurred in the subiculum and in all subfields of Ammon's horn. The angular bundle and fornix-fimbria lacked specific [3H] cholecystokinin octapeptide binding sites. A very similar pattern of binding densities was found for [3H]pentagastrin. Comparisons of the cholecystokinin octapeptide receptor distribution with the cholecystokinin octapeptide innervation of the hippocampal region suggest that there exists a relatively good concordance in some hippocampal subfields such as the presubiculum and the entorhinal area between binding sites for [3H]cholecystokinin octapeptide and cholecystokinin-immunoreactive afferent input.
The neuronal and glial cell composition of the rat visual cortex (area 17) has been determined quantitatively using stereological techniques. The volume numerical densities (number of cells per mm3 of cortex) of neurons and of the principal glial cell types (astroglia, oligodendroglia, and microglia) were calculated from tangential semithin resin sections spaced at regular intervals 50 micron apart throughout the entire depth of the visual cortex. From measurements of cortical and laminar thickness the separate volume numerical densities of neurons and glial cells were derived for each lamina in the cortex. In addition, the absolute numbers of cells in each lamina under 1 mm2 of cortical surface were calculated. The mean cortical volume numerical density of neurons was 60,020 +/- 3840/mm3 (mean +/- SEM; n = 8), and 49,040 +/- 2610/mm3 for the combined glial cell types. Astroglia, oligodendroglia, and microglia were present in a ratio of 6:3:1 respectively. It was determined from neuronal and glial somatic volume estimates that the somata of these cells occupied approximately 13.5% of unit cortical volume, with 81.3% of the unit volume being occupied by cortical neuropil. Using previously published reports that described the laminar composition of neurons in terms of the relative proportions of pyramidal and non-pyramidal cells, the laminar volume numerical densities for these neuronal categories have been derived. In addition, it has been estimated that under 1 mm2 of cortical surface there are 79,500 pyramidal and 7790 non-pyramidal neurons distributed throughout layers 1-6 of the rat visual cortex.
The activities of choline acetyltransferase and glutamate decarboxylase were measured in individual layers of the adult and developing rat visual cortex. In the adult, the level of choline acetyltransferase activity was highest in layer V followed by layers I, II &amp; III, IV and VI. These measurements are in complete agreement with recent immunohistochemical observations in the same cortical area. Glutamate decarboxylase activity was highest in layer IV and declined significantly in the more superficial and deeper layers. The activities of both enzymes were low during the first postnatal week but increased dramatically between days 8 and 18. Choline acetyltransferase activity in all layers demonstrated a more gradual rise to adult levels from day 18 onward, while glutamate decarboxylase activity reached adult levels by day 24 in all layers, except layer IV, which showed a continuous increase to adulthood. The functional role of the differences in the laminar distribution of these enzymes remains unknown.
The topographic distribution and density of the dopamine innervation in adult rat cerebral cortex were investigated by means of a recently improved radioautographic procedure for the light microscopic visualization and counting of monoamine axonal varicosities. Dopamine terminals were specifically labeled by high-affinity uptake in whole cerebral hemisphere slices incubated for 15 min at 35 degrees C with 10(-6) M tritiated dopamine in the presence of 10(-4) M pargyline and 5 X 10(-6) M desipramine. The slices were subsequently fixed, embedded in Epon and processed for light microscope radioautography as large 4-micron-thick (whole hemisphere) or smaller, semi-thin sections (selected areas). In radioautographs of serial semi-thin sections exposed for various periods of time, the number of labeled axonal varicosities reached a plateau after 12-14 days of exposure. Counts on such sections of increasing thickness allowed to calculate a correcting factor to transform numbers obtained from 4-micron-thick sections into their equivalent for a tissue thickness of 0.5 micron from which all varicosities were detected. The number of labeled varicosities could then be expressed per mm3 of tissue after measuring their mean caliper diameter in electron microscope radioautographs. As visualized at 3 transverse levels representing most of the major cytoarchitectonic divisions of cerebral cortex, two novel aspects were recognized in the topographic distribution of dopamine terminal: (1) the presence of a dopamine innervation in layer VIb of the frontal, parietal, temporal and occipital neocortex, and (2) a significant contingent of dopamine varicosities within the deep and not only upper layers of supragenual cingulate cortex. A fair number of dopamine varicosities were also detected in the upper layers of the dorsomedial frontal area, in the retrosplenial and adjacent occipital cortex as well as in the ventral subiculum and field CAl of the hippocampus. As measured in 10 sectors representing different cortical regions, the highest density of dopamine innervation was found in the supragenual cingulate cortex (1.7 X 10(6] and particularly in its layers II and III (3.1 X 10(6)). A slightly lower density was measured in the anteromedian &quot;prefrontal&quot; cortex (1.0 X 10(6)). The rostrorhinal and the perirhinal cortex showed moderate dopamine innervation (3.0 and 5.5 X 10(5)) with varicosities in every layer. The piriform and the posterior entorhinal cortex were also moderately and ubiquitously innervated (2.5 and 3.0 X 10(5)).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The distribution and morphology of thalamocortical projection neurons and glial cells in the ventrolateral nucleus of the rat thalamus have been investigated using light and electron microscopic techniques. In this material thalamocortical projection neurons in the ventrolateral nucleus were identified by the retrograde transport of horseradish peroxidase following the placement of multiple injections of horseradish peroxidase in the primary motor and sensorimotor overlap regions of the cerebral cortex. The location of horseradish peroxidase-labelled thalamocortical projection neurons varied with the locus of injection in the motor and sensorimotor overlap cortex; caudal injections labelled cells in the rostrolateral region of the ventrolateral nucleus while injections involving successively more rostral regions of the cortex labelled cells in more medial and caudal regions of the nucleus. Labelled thalamocortical neurons were grouped in clusters with neuron pairs often closely applied to each other via non-synaptic junctional complexes. Where the field of labelled neurons was analysed in series of 1-micron-thick sections with phase contrast light microscopy, all neurons in the field were found to be clearly labelled with horseradish peroxidase. Thalamocortical neurons comprised mainly medium-to-large, multipolar ovoid-shaped cells which showed a large centrally placed nucleus with deep invaginations of the nuclear membrane. Two types of glial cells were identified: astrocytes, identified by their characteristic pale-staining ovoid nucleus, showed a close relationship to blood vessels, synaptic complexes and neurons; oligodendrocytes, distinguished by their darkly stained nucleus and cytoplasm, were somewhat smaller and showed a close association with myelinated fibres. These findings show that the rat ventrolateral nucleus comprises a homogeneous population of thalamocortical projection neurons and thus provide indirect evidence suggesting the absence of interneurons in the ventrolateral nucleus of the rat thalamus.
During compression of the entire retinotectal projection into the rostral half of the tectum after ablation of the caudal half there is widespread sprouting of ganglion cell axons, not only those cut during the operation but also those left intact. However, unlike cut axons those left intact sprout without their cell bodies showing chromatolysis or swelling. Chromatolysis and swelling of the cell bodies of cut axons are more prolonged than after optic nerve section and resolve in more central regions of retina first. The cut axons of cell bodies in these regions tend to be the first to form terminal arborizations during the compression process as judged electrophysiologically. However, there is no clear correlation in individual fish between these measures and the state of compression assessed electrophysiologically. Large areas of retina may contain chromatolysed cells even after compression has occurred. Electrophysiological mapping alone may give a misleading picture of the interactions occurring between retinal and tectal cells during reorganization.
The purpose of this study was to examine injury-related effects on the survival and growth of entorhinal tissues transplanted to the adult rat entorhinal area. Embryonic entorhinal cortex was transplanted to the angular bundle region of adults either immediately, or 8-10 days, after severing specific host projections. Graft survival (Nissl stain) and connectivity (acetylcholesterase stain and retrograde labeling with wheat germ agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase) were examined two months post-transplantation. Grafts transplanted 8-10 days after severing the angular bundle were large and contained many cells which innervated the hippocampal formation. Grafts transplanted immediately after severing the angular bundle were small, did not integrate well with the host tissues, and failed to innervate the hippocampal formation. Grafts transplanted without producing any prior lesion, or following lesions which did not damage host entorhinal projections, were intermediate in size, but failed to innervate the hippocampal formation. The data demonstrate that: (1) introducing a delay between the lesion and implant surgeries can significantly enhance graft survival and the establishment of transplant-to-host projections, and (2) transplant-derived innervation of the host is significantly impaired when host homologous fibers are intact. These findings suggest that environmental factors, induced specifically by the destruction of host homologous fibers, are responsible for the differences in transplant survival and connectivity observed.
In order to be able to transplant neural cells which have been either manipulated in vitro or maintained in culture for the purpose of cell-type enrichment, we have developed a novel plasma clot method which permits reaggregation of previously dissociated cells such that they can be implanted as highly localized transplants rather than as dispersion-prone cell suspension grafts. To establish the method, enzymatically dissociated cells prepared from hippocampal primordia of late embryonic rats were immediately reaggregated into plasma clots and transplanted to the hippocampal formation of adult recipients. By using fluorescein-labelled bovine plasma to form the plasma clot grafts of reaggregated cells, the fate of the plasma clot protein matrix was followed at different post-operative survival times. Initially, 4-5 days post-operative, the plasma clot maintained the grafted cells in a loose sponge-like sack at the site of implantation. After 2-3 weeks, the transplanted cells were more compact and fused with the host neuropil, and the plasma clot matrix had largely been degraded. At 1 month or longer survival, there was no distinguishable boundary between transplant and host, and there was little or no evidence of any remaining plasma clot matrix or proteins. The plasma clot method was subsequently applied to the transplantation of cultures enriched in pyramidal cells. Enrichment for pyramidal cells was achieved by eliminating mitotic cells (dentate granule cells and glia) by brief (200 rad) irradiation of hippocampal primordia followed by dissociation and maintenance in monolayer culture for 4-6 days. Fibres from host dentate granule cells grew into the pyramidal cell-enriched transplants and established mossy fibre terminals on the donor cells. In transplants between embryonic and adult rats, donor cells were identified at long survival times by prelabelling donor cells in utero or in vitro with [3H]thymidine prior to transplantation. In transplants between embryonic and adult mice, donor tissue from A Thy-1.1 strain mice was transplanted to congenic A strain (Thy-1.2) mice such that the donor cells bearing the Thy-1.1 cell surface glycoprotein could be later identified by immunocytochemical staining with antibodies specific for the Thy-1.1 antigen. Reaggregation and transplantation of dissociated cells in a plasma clot thus provides a novel method whereby prior manipulation of neural tissue (separation of neurons and glia, enrichment for specific types of neurons, or glia etc.) can be used to great advantage in studying host-transplant connectivity and in assessing those factors which are critical in sustaining the survival of grafted neural tissue.

Developing retinas from 13-18-day fetuses and 2-day neonatal Long-Evans rats transplanted into the anterior chamber of adult eyes of the same or different strain (Lewis) survive and differentiate. Light and electron microscopic studies show that the transplants undergo histogenetic differentiation, resulting in the development of neurons and Mller glial cells and formation of nuclear and plexiform layers. Vascular connections develop between the host iris and the retinal transplant. Vessels and nerves, presumably of iridal origin, were seen on the surface of some transplants. Possible manifestations of graft rejection were monitored; signs of tissue rejection in transplants performed in the Long-Evans rats, an outbred strain, were rare and if present they were mild, at least during the survival periods of up to 91 days allowed in these experiments. Transplants into the eyes of Lewis rats were also well tolerated during the survival period. These observations indicate that retinal transplantation to the adult eye of a genetically different host can be successfully achieved and that both embryonic and perinatal retinas are suitable as donor tissue for ocular transplants. The procedure offers ample opportunities for the study of problems related to retinal plasticity.
Acetylcholinesterase (EC 3.1.1.7) has been shown to possess an intrinsic peptidase activity. [Chubb et al. (1983), Neuroscience 10, 1369-1383]. To examine this activity further, the breakdown of a model hexapeptide (leu-trp-met-arg-phe-ala) LWMRFA was studied. Affinity-purified eel acetylcholinesterase rapidly cleaved the hexapeptide in a trypsin-like manner to produce two peptides (LWMR and FA). Acetylcholinesterase more slowly cleaved the C-terminal alanine residue from the peptide to yield LWMRF. Although the enzyme showed preference for cleaving the hexapeptide at its C-terminal, it was also able to cleave the N-terminal leucine residue form the tryptic product LWMR. Hydrolysis of the peptide at the tryptic site (arg4-phe5) was strongly inhibited by the trypsin inhibitor diisopropylfluorophosphate. Cleavage of the C-terminal alanine was only poorly inhibited by diisopropylfluorophosphate, but more strongly inhibited by metal-ion chelating agents, and it was increased in the presence of Zn2+ and Co2+. The pH optimum for cleavage at the tryptic site was 6, while that for the carboxypeptidase site was 8-9. These results show that acetylcholinesterase can hydrolyse peptides like a trypsin-like endopeptidase and a Zn2+- or Co2+-dependent exopeptidase, and they suggest that these two peptidase activities are associated with two separate active sites on the acetylcholinesterase molecule. As both peptidase activities eluted with acetylcholinesterase from a TSK 4000SW column when it was chromatographed by high-performance liquid chromatography, it is unlikely that the presence of either peptidase activity could be attributable to a contaminant in the acetylcholinesterase preparation. We suggest that acetylcholinesterase may be involved in the breakdown of bioactive peptides or their precursors in neuroendocrine cells.
The distribution of the C-terminal glycopeptide of the vasopressin prohormone was mapped in rat brain by an immunocytochemical method using antibodies to the sheep glycopeptide. The antibodies did not react with vasopressin, oxytocin or their related neurophysins. Stained neural perikarya were observed in the hypothalamus (suprachiasmatic, paraventricular, and supraoptic nuclei) and in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. Fibres were detected in the hypothalamus and in extrahypothalamic regions (the frontal cortex, the lateral septum, the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, the medial nuclei of the thalamus, the lateral habenula, the amygdala, the mesencephalic central gray, the raphe nucleus of the solitary tract and the cervical spinal cord). The distribution of glycopeptide immunoreactive cells was generally similar in young rats (8 weeks old) to the distribution in older rats (13 weeks old) except in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis where stained neurons were relatively sparse or absent in the younger animals. Similarly, in the young rats the density of fibres containing the glycopeptide was reduced in territories innervated by the bed nucleus. In both young and old rats the neuronal distribution of the glycopeptide was identical to the distribution of vasopressin, which suggests that the glycopeptide and vasopressin are co-transported from the sites of biosynthesis to the sites of release.
Serial sections of the cat's thalamus were incubated with a purified antiserum raised against gamma-aminobutyric acid conjugated to bovine serum albumin by distilled glutaraldehyde. This serum has been extensively characterized and appears to react selectively with fixed gamma-aminobutyric acid in brain tissue treated with glutaraldehyde. Adjoining sections were stained with thionin and served as invaluable guides for a correct evaluation of the immunolabelling pattern. In the neuropil the intensity of the immunostaining varies considerably between thalamic nuclei and even between nuclear subdivisions. The neuropil staining appears particularly dense in the nuclei parataenialis, periventricularis, centralis medialis, reuniens, rhomboideus, habenularis lateralis, centrum medianum, parafascicularis, subparafascicularis, submedius, dorsal and ventral parts of the lateral geniculate body, the dorsal part of the medial geniculate body, the posterior complex, suprageniculate nucleus, pulvinar and parts of the lateral posterior nucleus. The pulvinar/lateralis posterior complex shows a particularly well-differentiated staining pattern which closely matches Updyke's [Updyke (1983) J. comp. Neurol. 219, 143-181] parcellation of this region. In several thalamic nuclei or subareas--and notably in those relay nuclei which are known to project upon non-primary sensory cortical areas--the immunostained neuropil is characterized by many puncta encircling an unstained profile. With few exceptions all thalamic nuclei displayed immunoreactive nerve cell bodies. Several examples were found of a mismatch between the number of such cells and the staining intensity of the neuropil. Thus the nuclei periventricularis, parafascicularis, subparafascicularis, parataenialis, limitans and centrum medianum although being very rich in neuropil staining have practically no immunostained perikarya. Rough estimates were made of the size and the proportion of gamma-aminobutyric acid labelled neurons in all major--and some minor--thalamic nuclei and their subdivisions. In some thalamic nuclei, notably the nuclei reticularis, anterior dorsalis, lateralis dorsalis, centralis lateralis, ventralis posterior and the dorsal lateral geniculate body, the population of immunoreactive neurons is distinctly heterogeneous with regard to soma size. The findings are discussed with regard to previous immunocytochemical studies of the distribution of gamma-aminobutyric acid and its synthesizing enzyme in the thalamus. Particular emphasis is put on the great species differences which appear to exist in this respect.
The distribution of L-aspartate known as a putative excitatory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system was investigated immunocytochemically in the rat brain. Anti-aspartate antiserum was raised in rabbits using L-aspartate covalently conjugated to rabbit serum albumin with glutaraldehyde as the immunogen and was found to be cross-reactive with an L-glutamate conjugate. Monospecific anti-L-aspartate antibody was successfully purified using affinity gels coupled with several amino acids including L-aspartate and L-glutamate and with the L-glutamate conjugate. Putative aspartergic neurons were generally immunoreactive to the purified antibody, but epithelia of the choroid plexus were also stained. These results show that the antibody is a useful tool for the immunocytochemical demonstration of possible aspartergic neurons in the central nervous system, although the immunochemical expression of L-aspartate not used as a neurotransmitter must be taken into consideration.
Cholinergic amacrine cells of the chicken retina were detected by immunohistochemistry using an antiserum against affinity-purified chicken choline acetyltransferase. Three populations of cells were detected: type I cholinergic amacrine cells had cell bodies on the border of the inner nuclear and inner plexiform layers and formed a prominent laminar band in sublamina 2 of the inner plexiform layer, while type II cholinergic amacrine cells had cell bodies in the ganglion cell layer, and formed a prominent laminar band in sublamina 4 of the inner plexiform layer. Type III cholinergic amacrine cell bodies were located towards the middle of the inner nuclear layer, and their processes were more diffusely distributed in sublaminas 1 and 3-5 of the inner plexiform layer. Type I and type II cells were present at densities of over 7000 cells/mm2 in central areas declining to less than 2000 cells/mm2 in the temporal retinal periphery. The cells were organized locally in a non-random mosaic, with regularity indices ranging from 3 peripherally to over 5 centrally. Neither at the light nor electron microscopic levels was a lattice of cholinergic dendrites of the kind reported by Tauchi and Masland [J. Neurosci. 5, 2494-2501 (1985)] detectable. Within the two prominent dendritic plexuses, a major feature of the synaptic interactions of the type I and type II cholinergic cells was extensive synaptic interaction between cholinergic processes. Apart from this, there was little, if any, input to cholinergic processes from non-cholinergic amacrine cells, but there was input from bipolar cells. Output from the cholinergic amacrine cell processes was directed towards non-cholinergic amacrine cells as well as other cholinergic amacrine cells, and ganglion cells.
The effect of mannitol treatment on the behavioural, morphological and neurochemical brain damage induced after subcutaneously applied kainic acid (10 mg/kg) was studied in the rat. Mannitol at a dose of 1.5 g/kg was injected intravenously 10 min, 1.5 h and 3 h respectively after kainic acid administration. A protective effect of mannitol was observed only when mannitol was given 1.5 h after kainic acid application, i.e. within the early phase of kainic acid-induced brain oedema development. At this time period, mannitol prevented the development of kainic acid-induced seizures as well as irreversible brain lesions and neurochemical changes, the latter being reduction of noradrenaline levels in amygdala/pyriform cortex measured 3 h, and reduction of glutamate decarboxylase and choline acetyltransferase activities measured 3 days after kainic acid treatment. Similarly loss of glutamate decarboxylase activity in dorsal hippocampus induced by kainic acid was prevented by mannitol treatment. It is concluded that by washing out brain oedema, mannitol treatment may prevent propagation of seizures and brain damage in the kainic acid model of epilepsy.
We have examined by electron microscopy the cytoskeletons of growth cones isolated from neonatal rat forebrain by the method of Gordon-Weeks and Lockerbie [Gordon-Weeks and Lockerbie (1984) Neuroscience 13, 119-136]. When fixed in suspension with conventional fixatives, isolated growth cones contain a central region filled with a branching system of smooth endoplasmic reticulum and a cortical region immediately beneath the plasma membrane that is relatively free of organelles and is composed of an amorphous granular cytoplasm. The filopodia of isolated growth cones are also devoid of organelles and contain a cytoplasm that is similar in appearance to that in the cortical region. No microtubules or neurofilaments have been found in these growth cones. When isolated growth cones were prepared for electron microscopy by a method which preserves actin filaments [Boyles, Anderson and Hutcherson (1985) J. Histochem. Cytochem. 33, 1116-1128], microfilaments were found throughout the cortical cytoplasm. In the filopodia, the microfilaments were bundled together and oriented longitudinally. Filopodial microfilament bundles often extended into the body of the growth cone and could traverse it completely. Inclusion of Triton X-100 (1% v/v) in the fixative solubilized the membranes and soluble cytoplasmic proteins of growth cones, allowing an unobscured view of the microfilament cytoskeleton including the core bundle of microfilaments in filopodia. Suspended within the cytoskeleton were the coats of coated vesicles. These were particularly numerous at the broad bases of filopodia. Microfilaments bound heavy meromyosin and were cytochalasin B (2.0 X 10(-7) M) sensitive. Individual microfilaments branched and within filopodia they were extensively cross-linked by thin (7 nm) filaments. Microtubules and neurofilaments were not seen in these cytoskeletons despite the fact that the fixative contained a Ca2+ chelator. When growth cones were preincubated in taxol (14 microM) their cytoskeletons were found to contain microtubules. These were located mainly in the centre of the growth cone, were absent from the filopodia and were contiguous with microfilaments. We conclude that the cytoskeletons of isolated neuronal growth cones from neurones of the central nervous system are mainly composed of actin microfilaments. Although microtubules are not normally present, there is a pool of soluble tubulin which will form microtubules in the presence of taxol. This may imply that those microtubule-associated proteins that promote tubulin polymerization are absent in the growth cone or are below the concentration threshold for polymerization.
Experiments in a variety of preparations have indicated that excessive activation of receptors for the excitatory amino acids glutamate and aspartate may mediate irreversible anoxic neuronal injury. We investigated this hypothesis in the in vitro hippocampal slice. Rat hippocampal slices perfused for 40 min with buffer equilibrated with 95% nitrogen/5% carbon dioxide lost their extracellular CA1 population spikes and failed to recover after prolonged reoxygeneration. It was impossible to locate cells with normal physiological properties in these anoxic slices with standard intracellular recording techniques. However, when excitatory transmission was blocked during anoxia with either high concentrations of magnesium or antagonists of excitatory amino acids (kynurenate or aminophosphonovalerate), the population spike returned to preanoxia levels. Intracellular recording showed that neurons in these protected slices had normal resting potentials, action potentials, and input resistances. These experiments provide additional support for the involvement of excitatory amino acids and their receptors in anoxic neuronal injury.
The hypothesis that electrotonic spread among oxytocinergic neurons contributes to synchronized bursting in the lactating rat leads to the prediction that coupling among oxytocinergic neurons would be stronger and more abundant in lactating than in non-lactating animals. We tested this prediction using, as an index of electrical coupling, transfer among neurons of the fluorescent dye Lucifer Yellow CH, which crosses gap junctions. Intracellular injections (total of 159) of the dye were made in supraoptic nucleus neurons in hypothalamic slices from virgin female and lactating rats. In virgins, 86 injections resulted in 76 single, 8 coupled pairs and 2 triplets of dye-filled neurons. In contrast, 73 injections in lactators yielded 51 single, 16 coupled pairs and 6 triplets, (greater than 100% increase) a difference significant at P less than 0.001. Immunocytochemical identification of the dye-filled cells revealed that there was an increase over virgins in coupling among both oxytocinergic and vasopressinergic neurons. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that electrical coupling is involved in synchronizing oxytocin cell bursting in lactators. They are also consistent with published data indicating that vasopressin neurons are metabolically activated (show increased glucose uptake) during suckling and may show correlated activity.
Using the iodinated luteinizing-hormone-releasing hormone analogue [D-Ala6, N alpha MeLeu7, Pro9 NEt]-luteinizing-hormone-releasing hormone as radioligand, specific binding sites have been visualized in the rat both in the pituitary and the hippocampal formation of the brain. In the hippocampus, the CA1, CA2 and particularly CA3 regions were heavily labelled. These hippocampal sites have a pharmacological specificity resembling that of luteinizing-hormone-releasing hormone receptors in pituitary homogenates and could therefore represent true luteinizing-hormone-releasing hormone receptors. The luteinizing-hormone-releasing hormone superagonist [D-Ala6, Pro9 NEt]-luteinizing-hormone-releasing hormone and the potent antagonist [D-pGlu1, D-Phe2, D-Trp3,6]-luteinizing-hormone-releasing hormone were highly potent in displacing the iodinated luteinizing-hormone-releasing hormone analogue. The weak agonist [Gln8]-luteinizing-hormone-releasing hormone, however, was at least two orders of magnitude less potent. Somatostatin was inactive. Hippocampal luteinizing-hormone-releasing hormone receptors were species-specific, being present in the rat but not in the mouse, guinea-pig, hamster, rabbit and human brains. In order to identify the cellular location of these hippocampal receptors, various lesions were performed. Electrolytic lesions of the septal afferents did not reveal any receptor density change. Colchicine as well as kainic acid injections did, however, reduce considerably the number of hippocampal receptors. Interestingly, in the electrolytically and kainic-acid-lesioned animals, the appearance of non-displaceable luteinizing-hormone-releasing hormone binding sites within a well-defined area corresponding to the lesioned, gliosis-rich area was observed. The present results suggest the presence of pharmacologically specific, species-dependent, luteinizing-hormone-releasing hormone receptors located, at least partly, on intrinsic hippocampal neurons, in particular granule and pyramidal cells.
Ketamine, a dissociative, general anesthetic, blocks the excitation produced by activating one class of excitatory amino acid receptors, the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor in the rat. We have found that ketamine can protect hippocampal neurons in culture and slice from anoxia. When added to cultures immediately prior to anoxic exposure, ketamine prevented the neuronal destruction seen after a day of anoxia. Neurons appeared undamaged and had normal resting and action potentials. Adenosine triphosphate levels in ketamine-protected anoxic cultures were approximately two-thirds of normal controls. Ketamine also prevented the irreversible loss of the population spike seen in hippocampal slices after prolonged perfusion with anoxic buffer. These results suggest that ketamine may have therapeutic potential in preventing anoxic damage from stroke in man.
The single electrode voltage clamp technique was used to characterize the currents underlying the calcium potentials in rat caudate neurons in vitro. In current clamp experiments, long depolarizing current pulses evoked repetitive firing of fast somatic action potentials. These were abolished by tetrodotoxin (1 microM) and replaced by slow graded depolarizing potentials. These were preceded by a transient hyperpolarizing notch. Addition of 4-aminopyridine (100 microM) abolished the hyperpolarizing notch, enhanced the slow graded depolarizing response and induced the appearance of a slow all-or-nothing action potential. Both the slow graded response and the all-or-nothing action potential were abolished by cobalt (2 mM), suggesting the involvement of voltage-dependent calcium conductances. When the neurons were loaded intracellularly with caesium the action potential duration increased. Substitution of the extracellular calcium by barium (1-3 mM) or external addition of tetraethylammonium (5 mM) further prolonged spike duration and induced the appearance of long-lasting plateau potentials. These were insensitive to tetrodotoxin and were reversibly blocked by the calcium antagonists cobalt (2 mM), manganese (2 mM) or cadmium (500 microM). The calcium potentials were enhanced by the calcium 'agonist' BAY K 8644 (1-5 microM). In voltage clamp experiments when intracellular caesium was used to reduce outward currents and tetrodotoxin to block fast regenerative sodium currents, depolarizing voltage steps from a holding potential of -50, -40 mV activated an inward current. This current peaked in 50-80 ms and inactivated in two phases: an initial one at 150-200 ms followed by a second one after several hundred ms.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A panel of monoclonal antibodies with known specificity for the well-characterized nicotinic acetylcholine receptor from the electroplax of Torpedo californica, many of which cross-react with the mammalian muscle acetylcholine receptor, were examined for cross-reactivity in the fly, Drosophila melanogaster. Monoclonal antibodies with specificities for different epitopes on the transmembrane receptor complex from Torpedo cross-react with different regional subsets of neural tissue in Drosophila. Axonal tracts, neuropil, mechano-sensory bristle elements and photoreceptors, each are detected by separate monoclonal antibody classes corresponding to different epitope domains. A preliminary characterization of an antigenic determinant in Drosophila heads recognized by one of the cross-reacting monoclonal antibodies is presented. Monoclonal antibodies such as these may be useful in identifying molecules of homologous structure or function, possibly including a neuronal acetylcholine receptor.
The presence of neurokinin-A-like immunoreactivity in guinea-pig inferior mesenteric ganglia was detected by radioimmunoassay procedures. Pretreating the animals with capsaicin 7 days prior to experimentations reduced the mean content of neurokinin-A-like immunoreactivity by 85% from its control value of 150 +/- 31.3 fmol per ganglion. High-performance liquid chromatography revealed that neurokinin-A-like immunoreactivity was heterogenous as in addition to neurokinin A, peaks corresponding to the amphibian tachykinin eledoisin and to neuropeptide K were detected, and they too were depleted by capsaicin. Electrophysiological studies showed that neurokinin A applied either by superfusion or by pressure ejection evoked a slow depolarization in the majority of inferior mesenteric ganglia neurons in vitro. Neurokinin-A-evoked depolarizations in the majority of cells tested were associated with a small increase in membrane input resistance. However, the responses were increased by membrane hyperpolarization: the extrapolated mean equilibrium potential of neurokinin-A-induced depolarization was -36 mV. Removal of extracellular sodium but not chloride ions suppressed the neurokinin-A-induced depolarization. The slow depolarization elicited either by exogenously applied substance P or by repetitive stimulation of hypogastric nerves was reversibly eliminated in the presence of neurokinin A. Collectively, our studies suggest that neurokinin-A-like immunoreactivity may coexist with substance-P-like immunoreactivity in capsaicin-sensitive fibers in the guinea-pig prevertebral ganglia and that the similarity of the actions of neurokinin A on the one hand and substance P on the other raises the possibility that non-cholinergic excitatory potentials elicited in the inferior mesenteric ganglia may be generated by not one but a number of closely related tachykinins.
A population of sensory nerve fibres in the rabbit iris is known to contain calcitonin gene-related peptide and tachykinins, such as substance P and neurokinin A. In the presence of atropine and guanethidine, the isolated iris sphincter responded to electrical stimulation with a contraction that could be abolished by tachykinin antagonists. Capsaicin, known to release tachykinins from sensory fibres, evoked a long-lasting tachykinin-mediated contraction of the iris sphincter. Repeated application of capsaicin led to tachyphylaxis, possibly reflecting depletion of releasable neuronal stores of tachykinins. At this stage, electrical stimulation failed to elicit contraction. The capacity of capsaicin to release neuropeptides from sensory fibres was confirmed by determination of substance P- and calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactivity in the incubation medium and in the iris tissue. The concentrations of substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide in the iris after capsaicin exposure were reduced by about 25%. Like capsaicin, bradykinin evoked a tachykinin-mediated contraction and tachyphylaxis. However, after development of tachyphylaxis to bradykinin, electrical stimulation or exposure to capsaicin still evoked tachykinin-mediated contraction, albeit a reduced one compared with the response before bradykinin. Hence, capsaicin completely depletes tachykinin stores releasable by prolonged electrical stimulation, whereas bradykinin exhausts only a sequestered pool. The possibility that tachykinins occur in several releasable pools in sensory nerves was investigated in yet another way: the iris sphincter muscle was stimulated electrically once every 2.5 min over several hours. The contractile response diminished gradually.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Intracellular recordings were made from neurons in the isolated dorsal root ganglia of bullfrogs. 5-Hydroxytryptamine was applied by superfusion and by ionophoresis. The most common response to 5-hydroxytryptamine in C neurons was a membrane hyperpolarization and this was observed in 80% of cells. This was due to an increase in membrane potassium conductance because it reversed its polarity at about -90 mV. It was blocked by removal of calcium or addition of calcium blockers. (+)-Tubocurarine, methysergide, ketanserin, quipazine, picrotoxin, caffeine and ouabain blocked this response. The next most common response in C neurons was a fast depolarization, particularly readily observed when 5-hydroxytryptamine was applied by ionophoresis. Since this response reversed its polarity at about -10 mV and was blocked by removal of sodium, this was due to an increase in membrane conductance to both sodium and potassium ions. This response was reduced by superfusion of acetylcholine and gamma-aminobutyric acid. (+)-Tubocurarine, quipazine, picrotoxin and caffeine blocked the response. A small proportion of C neurons (16%) responded to superfusion of 5-hydroxytryptamine with a slow depolarization accompanied by an increase in input resistance. This response reversed its polarity at about -90 mV and, therefore, is presumed to result from potassium inactivation. It was blocked by methysergide and ketanserin but not by (+)-tubocurarine or quipazine. A few type A neurons (8%) caused a fast and transient depolarization like the fast depolarization of C neurons. About half of the A neurons showed a slow depolarization associated with a fall in input resistance. This slow response was assumed to be due to an increase in membrane conductance to both potassium and calcium ions because the response reversed its polarity at about -65 mV and was sensitive to change in external concentrations of those ions. This slow response was blocked by (+)-tubocurarine, methysergide, ketanserin, picrotoxin, caffeine and ouabain but not by quipazine. The effects of 5-hydroxytryptamine are discussed in relation to the similar actions described on a variety of other vertebrate and invertebrate nerve cells. The findings imply that dorsal root ganglion cells of bullfrogs are sensitive to 5-hydroxytryptamine and causes multiple types of 5-hydroxytryptamine responses.

Patients are often told of the diagnosis of a neurological disability in less than ideal circumstances such that they may not fully comprehend it. Clinicians must be able to sense when the patient's understanding is imperfect even if superficially he or she appears to take in what has been said and its implications. A programme of further counselling is often required to follow this up. A critical look at current procedures will show how these problems arise. It is suggested that improvements in the care of neurologically disabled patients would follow from improved communication between the many agencies that the concerned in their care and from providing books and other material explaining disability and its treatment. A logical development would be for disabled living centres to be established adjacent to existing neuroscience units.


The author reviews the vicissitudes of psychiatry's history over the past 50 years and urges the profession to abandon false boundaries between mind and brain and to make a commitment to the scientific validation of prevailing theories of the etiology of psychiatric disorders. He argues that the separation of psychiatry and neurology is no longer justified. He calls instead for a carefully conceived new career path leading to specialization in clinical neuroscience and further urges that psychiatric training programs be restructured to focus on the critical examination of problem solving and validation methods.

Programmes have been designed for computerized assessment of bioelectrical impulse amplitude, duration and frequency, simultaneously with instant indexes of systolic, diastolic arterial pressure and heart rate.


The normalized auto- and cross-covariance functions of discrete-time stochastic point process, used for quantitatively analyzing neuronal spike trains, were derived from the corresponding functions of general stochastic process using Kronecker delta functions. The auto-correlation and cross-correlation properties can be described as numerical differences on a monotonic scale ranging from -1 -1 to +1. A segmental integration method and a significance test for the normalized cross-covariance function estimate are suggested. Examples from real spike trains are illustrated, and Monte Carlo methods are used for controls and for testing the algorithms and computer programs.
The trajectories of data and modelling from formerly divergent research efforts now seem to be converging to an unexpected region of the phase space of neuroscience. Computational network theory and simulation assume that temporal rhythm may be a significant parameter for the successful organization of nonlinear analog computation effected by hierarchical sets of biological neurons and of nonbiological circuitry alike. For neurobiology, the apparently chaotic rhythms of cerebral compound field potentials--the electroencephalogram (EEG) and slow waves of event related brain potentials (ERBP)--have long been a phenomenological embarrassment, of only marginal clinical utility. But recent data from molecular biophysics, nonlinear dynamics, artificial intelligence, and scalp-conducted human electrocorticography suggest a possible functional role in the serial gating of neural network computations for the familiar theta-alpha-beta rhythms of the EEG clinic.

This review outlines recent research which has identified critical neural elements and mechanisms concerned with the transmission of sensory information related to oral-facial pain, and which has also revealed some of the pathways and processes by which pain transmission can be modulated. The review highlights recent advances in neurobiological research that have contributed to our understanding of pain, how acute and chronic pain conditions can develop, and how pain can be controlled therapeutically. Each section of the review also identifies gaps in knowledge that still exist as well as research approaches that might be taken to clarify even further the mechanisms underlying acute and chronic oral-facial pain. The properties of the sense organs responding to a noxious oral-facial stimulus are first considered. This section is followed by a review of the sensory pathways and mechanisms by which the sensory information is relayed in nociceptive neurones in the brainstem and then transmitted to local reflex centers and to higher brain centers involved in the various aspects of the pain experience--namely, the sensory-discriminative, affective (emotional), cognitive, and motivational dimensions of pain. Reflex and behavioral responses to noxious oral-facial stimuli are also considered. The next section provides an extensive review of how these responses and the activity of the nociceptive neurones are modulated by higher brain center influences and by stimulation of, or alterations (e.g., by trauma) to, other sensory inputs to the brain. The neurochemical processes, involved in these modulatory mechanisms are also considered, with special emphasis on the role of neuropeptides and other neurochemicals recently shown to be involved in pain transmission and its control. The final section deals with recent findings of peripheral and central neural mechanisms underlying pain from the dental pulp.
Functional activity of brain can be defined as the change in physiological activity that accompanies change in behavior. Although the precise relationship between such coupled activity is still being explored, autoradiographic methods for measuring brain blood flow, metabolism and receptor ligand densities have advanced to the point where it is possible to survey the entire brain of an animal for such changes. These developments offer the opportunity for studying brain as a whole--that is, for surveying the entire brain to identify the sites where changes in blood flow, metabolism or receptor chemistry occur with a particular behavior. The development of computer-based image analysis systems offer the possibility for visualizing such holistic brain function. We identified 4 steps which must be accomplished in developing a three-dimensional (3D) display for studying brain function. This paper describes the development and implementation of procedures for these 4 steps. Sectioning and digitizing representative tissue (e.g. autoradiograms, histology, histochemistry) with an adequate sampling frequency. Alignment and reconstruction of the components which make up the whole brain so that the original shape and orientation prior to sectioning is maintained. Projection and surface generation of a 3D model where the shading of the surface is mathematically dependent on the location of light source(s) and the viewer. Localization and quantification of planar cuts through the 3D model. Density data which reference the original autoradiograms are displayed along the exposed surface of the designated plane. The final presentation of data once these 4 steps are completed allows for the identification and visualization of changes in functional activity within the whole brain.
Details are described of techniques which allow the isolation of labelled, identified neurones suitable for patch clamp recording from the guinea pig spinal cord. Fluorescent labels, injected into either the hindlimb muscles or the cerebellum, are retrogradely transported to motoneurones or dorsal spinocerebellar tract neurones respectively. Cells are then enzymatically dissociated from spinal cord slices and identified using fluorescence microscopy. Patch clamp or whole cell recordings are then made.
We describe a technique, modified from Langford and Coggeshall [Anat. Rec., 197 (1980) 297-303; J. Comp. Neurol., 203 (1981) 745-750], for enhancing membrane contrast and defining cellular boundaries, that is useful for reconstructing individual cells from ultrathin sections. The cells of interest in our study were neuronal germinal cells and their differentiated progeny in the retinas of young goldfish. These cells were labeled by pulse injections of [3H]thymidine, and they were subsequently identified in EM autoradiographs by the presence of silver grains overlying their nuclei. In tissue prepared by traditional procedures (fixation in mixed aldehydes, postfixation in osmium tetroxide) it was difficult to follow the processes of these cells through the complex, dense network of cells in the differentiated retina. However, in tissue postfixed with a mixture of osmium tetroxide and potassium ferricyanide, the contrast of the cell membranes was improved and, in favorable preparations, a dense precipitate was formed in the extracellular spaces, serving to outline individual cells. This greatly faciliated the preparation of reconstructions from serial ultrathin sections.
This describes for the first time a non-fluorescent method for studying the connectional interrelationship of two neuronal systems in the same histological sections in which the systems are stained in two different colors (blue and brown). Since HRP and cobaltous-lysine are transported in both anterograde and retrograde directions, it is possible to manipulate the experiments to determine, for example, how the terminal fields of two systems overlap in a given neuropil, or cell aggregate, or how the projections of one system relate to retrogradely stained neurons of another system. The simple staining of HRP and cobalt is accomplished on cryostat sections and involves the combined technology of two previously published methods. The results described here are limited to a comparison of the overlap or lack of overlap of inputs to the thalamus from the two eyes in Xenopus, but the method has also proven useful in similar studies on Ambystoma tigrinum and Esox niger.

The sympathetic innervation of the main ventral artery of the rat tail has been studied using electrophysiological, histochemical and biochemical techniques. Excitatory junction potentials were evoked in the smooth muscle cells of an isolated segment (1-2 cm long) of the proximal vessel by stimulating its proximal end with a suction electrode. The amplitude of these potentials decreased distally until they were undetectable 6-8 mm from the stimulating electrode. The density of noradrenergic terminals along the length of the vessel was examined using formaldehyde-induced fluorescence and assay of endogenous noradrenaline, before and after lesioning the perivascular nerve plexus by freezing, or dividing the dorsal and ventral collector nerves. The results show that sympathetic axons run along the artery to make functional contact over only a few mm. Most (about 80%) of the sympathetic supply reaches the vessel after branching from the ventral collector nerves; the rest arises via the dorsal collector nerves. The location of the cell bodies of origin of the axons in the collector nerves has been identified after retrograde labelling with horseradish peroxidase. Motor and sensory axons in both dorsal and ventral nerve trunks arose from segments S2 to Co3, while almost all sympathetic neurons (95-98%) projecting to the tail were located in paravertebral ganglia S1 to S4 and the coccygeal ganglion. These results provide the first description of the relationship of the sympathetic innervation of the rat tail to its motor and sensory supply.
The influence of cerebellar vermis stimulation on noradrenergic and dopaminergic activity in the nucleus accumbens was investigated in anesthetised rat. Artificial cerebral spinal fluid containing [3H]tyrosine was continuously circulated through a unilateral push-pull cannula implanted in the nucleus accumbens. Fifteen-minute perfusate samples were collected serially for three consecutive 1-h periods designated pre-, during-, and post-stimulation. The stimulation was applied through a bilateral electrode located subdurally over the fifth vermal lobe. The [3H]norepinephrine and [3H]dopamine components in each sample were isolated by alumina extraction and high-pressure liquid chromatographic fractionation, and then quantified by liquid scintillation counting. For cannula locations in the caudal dorsomedial nucleus accumbens, levels of both [3H]catecholamines were found to be significantly higher during stimulation compared to the prestimulation baselines, and [3H]norepinephrine remained significantly elevated through the post-stimulation period. The relative increase during stimulation for [3H]norepinephrine (130%) was nearly twice that for [3H]dopamine (70%). These results indicate that vermal activation can significantly raise both noradrenergic and dopaminergic in vivo activity in the caudal dorsomedial nucleus accumbens, and provide a possible mechanism for explaining previously demonstrated influences of paleocerebellum upon affective components of behavior.
An electrophysiological and anatomical study identified the sensory inputs to the &quot;flank&quot; of the mouse's superior colliculus, a large, ventrolateral extension of layer IV (stratum griseum intermediate) that has no overlying visual layers (II and III). Electrophysiological recordings with subsequent histological localization showed that the flank receives predominantly somatosensory projections from the perioral region but not visual input. In its caudal parts, the flank also has limb and trunk somatosensory inputs and auditory inputs. The perioral somatosensory projections to the flank are ordered somatotopically. The flank is considered part of the superior colliculus since the perioral inputs are adjacent to inputs from mystacial vibrissae in the more medial parts of the superior colliculus, hence forming a single continuous map. The finding that no visual responses occur above the flank (due to the absence of superficial layers) or within it is in accord with the concept of an intermodality &quot;spatial register&quot;. Since flank neurons have somatosensory receptive fields in non-visible parts of the body and they lack visual responses, the flank may be involved more in tactile-dependent rather than in vision-dependent orienting behaviors. Thus, the superior colliculus may, in parallel, carry out sensorimotor transformations related to (1) shift of gaze and (2) tactile-dependent behaviors not involving vision.
The superior colliculus in the monkey contains a topographically organized representation of the target in its upper layers and saccade-related activity in its deeper layers. Since collicular movement fields are quite large, a considerable region of the colliculus is active whenever a saccade is made. We have modelled the collicular role in saccade generation based on the idea, proposed earlier in the literature, that each movement cell causes a movement tendency in the direction of the external world point which it represents in the collicular map. The model is organized as follows: An anisotropic logarithmic mapping transforms retinal coordinates into collicular coordinates. A two-dimensional Gaussian function describes the spatial extent of the movement-related activity in the deeper layers. An efferent mapping function specifies how the direction and the size of the movement contribution of each colliculus neuron depends on its location and its firing rate. The total saccade is the vector sum of the individual cell contributions. This very simple model (seven fixed parameters) has been used to simulate metrical properties of saccades: in response to visual targets; in response to electrical stimulation in one colliculus, and after a colliculus lesion. Model performance appears to be remarkably realistic but cannot account for some border effects and responses to double stimulation. Suggestions on how the model can be improved and extended will be presented.
The effect of visual deprivation upon the maturation of the ipsilateral visuotectal projection has been studied in Xenopus laevis. This topographically ordered projection is polysynaptic. The first stage involves the retinal projection to the contralateral optic tectum. The tectum projects to the nucleus isthmi on the same side. The final stage is the crossed isthmotectal projection from the nucleus isthmi to the tectum ipsilateral to the eye. The topographic precision of connections at various points in this polysynaptic pathway has been investigated by quantifying single-unit and multi-unit receptive field sizes in the contralateral and ipsilateral visuotectal projections. Observations have been made on normal animals of different ages to plot the normal maturational course of events. The effects of visual deprivation on this maturational process has been studied. Between one week and one year after metamorphosis there is an increase in the precision of connections in both the contralateral and ipsilateral visuotectal projections. Visual deprivation had no effect upon the parameters of the contralateral visuotectal projection. Ipsilateral visuotectal single units in dark-reared animals had normal receptive field sizes. Ipsilateral multi-unit receptive fields in dark-reared animals were considerably larger than in normal animals. It was concluded that the effects of visual deprivation are limited to effects on the crossed isthmotectal component of the intertectal system. In this component, however, visual experience seems to play an important role in the normal development and modification of connections. It is suggested that visual experience is utilized to accommodate changes in the system required to respond to normal changes in interocular geometry that take place with development in Xenopus.
Recent evidence suggests that the amygdaloid central nucleus may contribute importantly to autonomic regulation during emotional states, possibly via both direct and indirect central nucleus efferent projections to autonomic regulatory nuclei in the lower brainstem. Additional findings suggest that the insular cortex may participate in autonomic regulatory processes, possibly by exerting an influence upon central nucleus neuronal activity via its direct projections to the central nucleus. The present experiment was conducted to determine the effects of insular cortex stimulation upon extracellularly recorded central nucleus neuronal activity in conscious, drug-free, rabbits. Satisfactory recordings were obtained from 146 central nucleus neurons. These were classified as belonging to one of six general categories on the basis of rates and patterns of ongoing discharge, responses to an auditory stimulus, and location within the nucleus. Determinations were then made as to whether each neuron could be activated antidromically from a ventrolateral mesencephalic region through which descending central nucleus projections to the lower brainstem course, and hence, whether the neuron might contribute to these projections. The activity of each neuron was then assessed during single-pulse stimulation of the region of the insular cortex demonstrated previously to project to the central nucleus. Such stimulation produced no response, an initial increase, or an initial decrease in the activity of 33%, 53% and 14% of the 146 neurons, respectively. The predominant response consisted of a single spike with a short but variable onset latency, suggesting orthodromic activation via one or a few synapses. Included among the neurons that responded to stimulation of the insular cortex in this manner were seven of 22 central nucleus neurons identified as projecting to the lower brainstem. Responses consisting of initially decreased activity most often occurred in neurons that discharged infrequently and were sensory-responsive. The results of this experiment thus provide more detailed information than was available previously regarding the pervasive influence of the insular cortex upon central nucleus neuronal activity, and provide further support for the notion that the insular cortex may participate in autonomic regulatory processes by way of its direct projections to the central nucleus.
Specific acetylcholinesterase and non-specific cholinesterases are present in all three lobes of the rat pituitary gland. This paper describes two new observations on hypophyseal acetylcholinesterase. Firstly, a prolonged increase of neurohormone secretion evoked by dehydration and sodium loading was accompanied by a decrease in the acetylcholinesterase activity localized to the neural lobe, where acetylcholinesterase has previously been demonstrated in fine nerve fibres. Secondly, electrical stimulation of the pituitary stalk in vitro elicited the release of acetylcholinesterase and non-specific cholinesterases from the combined neural and intermediate lobe indicating that the enzyme can be released from nerve endings in the hypophysis by action potentials. The observed loss of enzyme activity during dehydration may be the consequence of a prolonged activation of cholinergic nerves in the gland, leading to an increased release of acetylcholinesterase, which is not immediately replaced by fresh enzyme. The decrease in acetylcholinesterase in the neural lobe during dehydration may also be connected with its peptidase function and thus with the previously observed loss of substance P from the neural lobe during dehydration [Holzbauer et al. (1984) Neurosci. Lett. 47, 23-28].
We have used the single-fibre excitability testing method to investigate whether electrical stimulation in midbrain periaqueductal gray or lateral reticular formation, as well as intraspinal iontophoretic application of the suspected inhibitory neurotransmitters serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine), noradrenaline, the opiate morphine, or gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), exert presynaptic actions at the central terminals of cutaneous afferent unmyelinated or myelinated fibres. Thresholds to antidromically excited 42 single unmyelinated and 18 myelinated fibres in the sural nerve by intraspinal microstimulation were determined before and during periaqueductal gray or lateral reticular formation stimulation (3 100 ms trains/s at 100 Hz; 100-900 microA) or intraspinal iontophoretic application (40-300 nA) of 5-hydroxytryptamine, noradrenaline, morphine or GABA from a multibarrel micropipette. Periaqueductal gray or lateral reticular formation stimulation had mixed effects on unmyelinated and myelinated fibre thresholds, with most threshold measurements within +/- 10% of control. There was a tendency for thresholds to increase more during periaqueductal gray than lateral reticular formation stimulation. Thresholds of unmyelinated fibres were predominantly raised during iontophoretic application of 5-hydroxytryptamine (20/29 fibres), noradrenaline (10/13) and morphine (15/21), while GABA had mixed effects; thresholds of nearly all myelinated fibres were raised by each drug. Both periaqueductal gray or lateral reticular formation stimulation and application of 5-hydroxytryptamine, noradrenaline or morphine tended to raise thresholds in the majority of the 53 unmyelinated and myelinated fibres tested. Methodological problems in interpreting the physiological significance of these results for presynaptic modulation are discussed.
In 11 rats the descending projections from the ventrolateral medullary medial reticular formation, the medullary raphe nuclei and the area of the nucleus coeruleus and subcoeruleus to lumbar motoneuronal cell groups were studied by means of electron microscopical autoradiography after [3H]leucine injections in the respective brainstem areas. The distribution of the transported radioactivity in the autoradiographs was determined using the circle method [Williams (1977), in Practical Methods in Electron Microscopy, Vol. 6, pp. 85-173] which showed that the vast majority of the silver grains was located over terminal profiles. In the motoneuronal cell groups six different types of terminals were distinguished. After injections in the ventrolateral medial reticular formation the majority of the silver grains was located over F-type terminal profiles while many fewer silver grains were found over S- and G-types. After injections in the raphe nuclei and the adjoining medial reticular formation approximately equal numbers of silver grains were found over F- and G-type terminals while fewer were found over S-type. A small proportion of silver grains was present over C-type terminals and only after injections in the ventrolateral medial reticular formation. After [3H]leucine injections in the area of the nucleus coeruleus and subcoeruleus the majority of silver grains were located over E- and S-type terminals whereas relatively few were located over F-type terminals. The E-type terminal, which has not been described before in the motoneuronal cell groups, is characterized by the fact that it contains relatively small vesicles and occasionally elongated or canaliculi-like structures. In the three groups of experiments approximately 40-50% of the labelled S- and F-type terminal profiles established synaptic contacts, but only approximately 10% of the labelled E- and G-type terminal profiles did so. In all cases these synaptic contacts were established mainly with proximal dendrites. In the autoradiographs some of the silver grains were concentrated into clusters. The vast majority of these clusters, consisting of six or more silver grains, were centred over terminal profiles. The differential distribution of these clusters over the different types of terminal profiles in the various experiments was roughly the same as found by means of the circle method. In two rats [3H]leucine injections in the ventrolateral medial reticular formation were combined with horseradish peroxidase injections in the ipsilateral hindleg muscles, resulting in retrograde labelling of the corresponding motoneurons as visualized by means of the tetramethyl benzidine incubation method.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The influence of hippocampal target cells on the development of cholinergic septal neurons was studied in rotation-mediated reaggregating cell cultures. Brain cells from 15-day-old mouse embryos were obtained from: septum, containing cholinergic cells which project to the hippocampus; hippocampus which contains target cells for the septal cholinergic neurons; and cerebellum, containing cells which are not targets for the septal cholinergic cells. The cells were then cultured for 3 weeks in a rotary incubator in the following combinations: septal cells alone; hippocampal cells alone; cerebellar cells alone; septal-hippocampal cells together; and septal-cerebellar cells together. After harvesting, fixation, and embedding, 50 micron sections were cut and processed for visualization of acetylcholinesterase activity. Sections from reaggregates containing either hippocampal or cerebellar cells alone contained only a few acetylcholinesterase-positive cells, but no positive fibers. Sections from septal-hippocampal coaggregates revealed a pattern of well-defined, fine-caliber acetylcholinesterase-positive fibers with extensive arborizations and varicosities suggesting axonal proliferation. In septal-cerebellar coaggregates, acetylcholinesterase-positive fibers appeared to be degenerating and distinct areas were observed which were essentially devoid of acetylcholinesterase fibers. In some experiments, either cerebellar or hippocampal cells were labeled with wheatgerm agglutinin-rhodamine prior to culture in order to identify these cells in the resulting reaggregates. Analysis of sections from these studies showed that acetylcholinesterase fibers were excluded from regions of coaggregates containing cerebellar cells, but were present in regions of coaggregates containing hippocampal cells. Finally, cell counts of acetylcholinesterase-positive cells in the various combinations revealed that these putative cholinergic neurons were significantly more numerous in septal-hippocampal coaggregates (271 +/- 19 per 10(6) septal cells added) than in septal reaggregates (38 +/- 6 per 10(6) septal cells added) or septal-cerebellar coaggregates (85 +/- 29 per 10(6) septal cells added). These results, taken together, suggest that hippocampal target cells influence the development and survival of cholinergic neurons.
The nucleus isthmi is a prominent part of the frog's visual system. Each nucleus isthmi receives input from the ipsilateral tectum and sends output to both tecta. Until now, no non-tectal inputs to the nucleus isthmi of amphibians have been demonstrated. Anterograde and retrograde tracing with horseradish peroxidase in Rana pipiens and Acris crepitans now reveal that a diffuse group of cells in the mesencephalic tegmentum projects to the caudal region of the contralateral nucleus isthmi. These cells are primarily within the nucleus anterodorsalis tegmenti. This same group of tegmental cells may also project to the caudal region of the ipsilateral nucleus isthmi. A similar investigation of the brain of another frog, Xenopus laevis, has not revealed any evidence of this tegmento-isthmic projection.
Excitability properties of isolated frog and rat sciatic nerve fibers were examined using intra-axonal and sucrose-gap recording techniques. Paired stimulation experiments on rat myelinated fibers indicate that a small proportion (11%; n = 84) of these axons demonstrate decreased threshold indicative of a supernormal period. In contrast, 81% (n = 23) of frog axons displayed a supernormal period. A depolarizing afterpotential was observed in most of the rat and frog fibers having a supernormal period and the depolarizing afterpotential increased in magnitude and duration during hyperpolarization. In addition to whole nerve stimulation, a supernormal period could be induced by stimulation of a single axon via current passage through the recording microelectrode. Brief (2-5 ms) subthreshold depolarizing pulses were followed by a slowly decaying depolarization and a period of increased excitability that mimicked the supernormal period. A supernormal period was also observed in the whole nerve preparation using a sucrose-gap technique. The magnitude and duration of the supernormal period, as measured in the sucrose-gap, were greater for frog nerve than for rat nerve. Additionally, a larger postspike negativity, the extracellular equivalent of the intra-axonally observed depolarizing afterpotential, was present in sucrose-gap recordings for frog nerve than for rat nerve. The results indicate that the depolarizing afterpotential is an important determinant of the supernormal period, and that both the depolarizing afterpotential and supernormal period are more prominent in frog than in rat sciatic nerve.
The ultrastructural features and synaptic contacts of two types of neurotensin-containing amacrine cells in turtle retina were examined by electron immunocytochemistry, and the retinal peptides were characterized using radioimmunoassay and high-pressure liquid chromatography. The two types of cell were distinguished on the basis of their sizes, dendritic arborizations, synaptic connections and cytoplasmic staining characteristics. Type A cells had lightly labeled cytoplasm and large vertically elongated cell bodies which gave rise to a single primary process which in turn branched and ramified as smooth tapering processes in stratum 3 of the inner plexiform layer. Type A cells received approximately equal synaptic input from amacrine and bipolar cells. Type A amacrines had much more overall synaptic input than synaptic output, and they made conventional synaptic contacts onto bipolar, amacrine, and ganglion cells. Type B cells had a much darker-staining cytoplasm and a smaller cell body which gave rise to numerous delicate beaded dendrites which arborized in strata 3, 4 and 5 of the inner plexiform layer. Type B cells received primarily amacrine and some bipolar cell input. Type B cells had equal amounts of synaptic input and output and they made conventional synaptic contacts onto amacrine, bipolar, and ganglion cells. Whereas there were numerous large vesicles (120 nm diameter) that stained for neurotensin in both types of cells, conventional synaptic vesicles (60 nm diameter) were not labeled. In several cases these large labeled vesicles appeared to fuse with the cell membrane in non-synaptic regions and release their contents into extracellular space, which suggested a non-synaptic release of the neurotensin from type A neurons. Immunochemical and chromatographic studies demonstrated that the neurotensin-related material in retina was indistinguishable from neurotensin found in brain. These results are consistent with a neuroactive role for the neurotensin present within the large vesicles. The differences in the synaptic contacts and dendritic arborizations of the two amacrine cell types suggest they play distinctive functions in visual processing.
We have used an antibody to the paired helical filament protein to immunohistochemically identify the regional distribution of subcortical nuclei containing neurofibrillary tangles in brains from Alzheimer's disease patients. Sections were examined from the cerebral cortex, diencephalon, midbrain and pons in seven Alzheimer's and three age-matched normal brains. The antibody sensitively stained the many tangles, and senile plaques, in the cerebral cortex of the Alzheimer's brains and the few tangles and senile plaques in the aged normal cortex. Ten subcortical nuclei contained many tangles in the Alzheimer's brains. The tangles were found not only within the locus coeruleus and dorsal raphe nucleus, which often have been shown to be involved in Alzheimer's neuropathology, but also within several other nuclei not previously related to this disease. For example, tangles were found in the nucleus paranigralis, peripeduncular nucleus, medial parabrachial nucleus and several midline thalamic nuclei. All of the nuclei which contained tangles have been shown, in neuroanatomical tracing studies, to project to the cerebral cortex. These data indicate that Alzheimer's disease is a disease of the cerebral cortex and the numerous subcortical nuclei which diffusely innervate it, and are consistent with the hypothesis that the cerebral cortex is the primary target of the disease and the interconnected subcortical nuclei are secondarily affected due to retrograde transport of a cortical pathogen or failure of normal transport of a trophic agent.
Systematic Golgi studies have been performed on major subcortical, diencephalic, brain stem and spinal cord regions from cats with the inherited neuronal storage disease, GM1 gangliosidosis. Resulting data have been compared with other Golgi studies of neuronal storage disorders in man and animals, including an earlier, more limited examination of this same disease model. These previous studies have shown that in human and feline gangliosidoses cortical pyramidal neurons undergo remarkable changes in soma-dendritic geometry. The latter include the formation of conspicuous cellular enlargements between somata and axonal initial segments (meganeurites) and the sprouting of secondary neuritic processes from this same region of the cell. Further, ultrastructural studies have revealed normal appearing synapses on the surface of this ectopically placed dendritic-like membrane. Results of the present study indicate that the distribution of meganeurites, secondary neurites and other geometrical distortions of neurons in GM1 gangliosidosis varies with cell type and brain region. This cell type-specific response to the metabolic error and subsequent storage could be categorized in three ways. Firstly, certain types of cells (e.g. multipolar neurons of the amygdala and claustrum) exhibited changes similar to those reported for cortical pyramidal neurons. That is, cells of these regions either displayed spine or neurite-bearing meganeurites, or enlarged axon hillocks which were covered with similar processes. Other types of neurons did not demonstrate ectopic neurite growth or spine-covered meganeurites, but did display prominent aspiny meganeurites (e.g. neurons of the superior colliculus, periaqueductal gray, hypothalamus and basal forebrain nuclei). A third category of neurons did not possess meganeurites or neurite growth but instead demonstrated massive somatic expansion which exceeded that observed in meganeurite-bearing cell types (e.g. certain brain stem and spinal cord neurons). These data have been compared with the more limited Golgi studies of other types of neuronal storage disorders and the same types of neurons appeared to respond in similar fashion across this spectrum of diseases. The data presented and discussed in this paper demonstrate three significant morphological events which occur in neurons as a result of lysosomal hydrolase deficiency. These are storage, which occurs in all neurons but manifests as meganeurite formation or somatic enlargement depending on the cell type, axon hillock or meganeurite-associated spine and neurite growth, and new synapse formation on spine-covered meganeurites and on neurites.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We have studied the incorporation of vesicular membrane antigens into the presynaptic membrane during exocytosis of neurotransmitter at the frog neuromuscular junction. In a preliminary series of experiments, we first confirmed by electron microscopy that the synaptic vesicles are labelled following incubation with rabbit antisynaptic vesicle antibody of neuromuscular junction cross sections (cytoplasm and organelles reached by the antibodies). In a second series of experiments, intact neuromuscular junctions were stimulated with black widow spider venom and fixed with paraformaldehyde. The presence or absence of vesicular antigens in the presynaptic membrane was monitored with rabbit antisynaptic vesicle antibody and revealed with a second antibody coupled to peroxidase. In light microscopy, the labelled neuromuscular junctions are almost completely restricted to muscles stimulated with black widow spider venom and incubated with rabbit antisynaptic vesicle antibody. Only a few control muscles (not stimulated with black widow spider venom, but incubated with rabbit antisynaptic vesicle antibody) had labelled neuromuscular junctions. All control neuromuscular junctions, not incubated with rabbit antisynaptic vesicle antibody were unlabelled. Electron microscopy indicated that it is the presynaptic membrane of intact stimulated neuromuscular junctions which is labelled. In these intact neuromuscular junctions, the synaptic vesicles are usually unlabelled. Electron microscopy also indicated that the presynaptic membrane of only one type of control junctions (not stimulated with black widow spider venom, but incubated with rabbit antisynaptic vesicle antibody) is rarely and weakly labelled. Other types of controls (not incubated with rabbit antisynaptic vesicle antibody) are never labelled. Therefore our results are consistent with the incorporation of vesicular antigens into the plasma membrane during exocytosis produced by the black widow spider venom. The low level of labelling of unstimulated neuromuscular junctions suggest a rather complete retrieval of the vesicular proteins during endocytosis.
To investigate the cellular basis of opiate dependence, intracellular microelectrodes were used to record from both electrophysiologically defined classes of neurons (S and AH) in myenteric plexus longitudinal muscle preparations from morphine pretreated guinea pigs. These preparations responded to naloxone with the characteristic contraction of the longitudinal smooth muscle, indicative of morphine dependence. Depolarization in response to naloxone was observed in 42% of S neurons, but there were no consistent changes in input resistance. In some cells the depolarization was reduced or abolished after blockade of synaptic transmission, suggesting that it was due in part to the release of an excitatory transmitter producing a slow depolarization in the impaled neuron. Synaptic activation of S neurons during withdrawal was further indicated by the observation that fast postsynaptic potentials appeared after abrupt displacement of morphine from its receptors by naloxone. Morphine withdrawal, therefore, involves both the final motor neurons and interneurons. During naloxone-induced withdrawal, 25% of S neurons discharged action potentials. In contrast, no action potentials were discharged in AH neurons. Furthermore, naloxone did not alter the resting membrane potential, input resistance, soma action potential configuration, or slow hyperpolarization following a soma spike in AH neurons. The specificity of the withdrawal response for S neurons and the relatively small proportion of neurons involved suggests that morphine withdrawal occurs in quite specific neuronal circuits in the myenteric plexus.
Recent evidence indicates that the nigrotectal tract plays an important role in regulating the premotor responses of cells in the in the intermediate gray layer of the superior colliculus. The purpose of the present study was to characterize the ultrastructure of nigrotectal terminals and of their postsynaptic targets in the intermediate gray layer. Nigrotectal terminals were identified in the electron microscope by labeling them autoradiographically, following injections of tritiated proline into the substantia nigra pars reticulata. The majority of nigrotectal terminals contain a high proportion of pleomorphic vesicles and form symmetrical synaptic contacts. Most of these terminals synapse with small dendritic profiles (2.00 micron +/- 0.83 SD), which may be the distal dendrites of neurons in the intermediate gray layer. Less than 10% of the labeled contacts are made with cell bodies or initial axonal segments.
We have shown experimentally in the previous paper that spontaneous epileptiform activity, as recorded by extracellular field potentials, propagates smoothly across the CA2-CA3 region of the convulsant-treated hippocampal slice of the guinea pig at velocities of about 0.1 m/s. In the present paper, we used computer simulations of either 500 or 1000 cell arrays of model neurons to examine possible mechanisms underlying this propagation. We show that propagation of epileptiform field potentials can be explained plausibly by slow conduction along axons interconnecting CA2-CA3 neurons, provided that there are sufficiently many interconnections. This propagation can take place even if the interconnections occur randomly. The number of interconnections required decreases as the number of synchronously activated cells initiating a population burst increases. Axonal propagation at 0.1 m/s appears to be a plausible assumption, since conduction velocities along Schaffer collaterals have been experimentally estimated to be as slow as 0.2 m/s, and small recurrent collaterals are likely to conduct more slowly than the main axonal branches. If spontaneous synchronized population bursts are initiated by activity in four or fewer cells, then our model requires, for smooth field potential propagation, more interconnections than are believed to occur on the basis of dual intracellular recording.
We recorded spontaneous synchronized epileptiform bursts from hippocampal slices from guinea pig using an array of 16 extracellular electrodes placed over the stratum pyramidale of CA2 and CA3. The slices were made epileptogenic with the GABA antagonist picrotoxin (or occasionally penicillin). We found that spontaneous bursts always originate at a discrete focus at or near CA2. These bursts spread smoothly and uniformly across CA3 at an average velocity of 0.13 m/s. This velocity is slower than the conduction velocity of the Schaffer collaterals or mossy fibers. Picrotoxin produced afterdischarges following the initial primary burst, and these afterdischarges were found to originate and spread in a fashion nearly identical to the primary burst. These results indicate that CA2 is a unique region which must possess unusual cellular and/or synaptic connectivity properties which result in a decreased threshold for initiation of epileptiform activity. We consider several hypothetical patterns of local synaptic connectivity in the light of these results, and we discuss the possible role of residual inhibition in limiting the spread of synchronized discharges.
We have localized angiotensin converting enzyme in rat brain and pituitary gland immunohistochemically with an anti-rat lung angiotensin converting enzyme monoclonal antibody. The distribution of immunoreactive angiotensin converting enzyme is identical with that of binding sites for the angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor, [3H]captopril. Most intense staining is in the choroid plexus and subfornical organ, with intermediate values in the caudate-putamen, globus pallidus, entopeduncular nucleus, pars reticulata of the substantia nigra, posterior pituitary and anterior pituitary. Lower levels are observed in the supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei of the hypothalamus. Within the basal ganglia angiotensin converting enzyme immunoreactivity is distributed throughout the neuropil; no cell bodies are stained, even after colchicine treatment. The punctate pattern of immunoreactivity in the anterior pituitary corresponds to the distribution of endothelial cells. The posterior pituitary is stained diffusely. Angiotensin converting enzyme is increased by 45% in the posterior lobe after pituitary stalk section, demonstrating that this diffuse staining is associated with pituicytes. Antibody specificity was demonstrated by the immunoaffinity purification of angiotensin converting enzyme to homogeneity from crude tissue extracts using anti-angiotensin converting enzyme antibody and protein A-sepharose. The apparent molecular weight by sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis of lung, choroid plexus and anterior pituitary angiotensin converting enzyme is 175,000. In the substantia nigra and caudate putamen, where angiotensin converting enzyme is localized to neuronal as opposed to epithelial cells, the molecular weight is 165,000. The pituicyte angiotensin converting enzyme of the posterior pituitary is 170,000 daltons.
The effect of the intrathecal administration of the catecholaminergic neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine, or of hemisection of the spinal cord at the Cl level, on the density of alpha 2-adrenoceptors and on the norepinephrine, dopamine, and serotonin content in the cat lumbar spinal enlargement was determined 2, 7 or 21 days after performance of each type of lesion. The intrathecal administration of 6-hydroxydopamine produced a time-dependent reduction of norepinephrine content in the cat lumbar spinal enlargement (95% reduction at 21 days) without significantly altering the serotonin content in this same tissue of the same cats. The dopamine content of the dorsal horn was not changed significantly, whereas ventral horn dopamine content was depleted after intrathecal 6-hydroxydopamine. alpha 2-Adrenoceptor binding site density was not significantly different from control either 2 or 21 days after 6-hydroxydopamine, but was increased significantly (50%) over the control density 7 days after 6-hydroxydopamine. Hemisection of the cervical spinal cord produced a bilateral 40-60% reduction of norepinephrine content in both the dorsal and ventral horns of the cat lumbar spinal enlargement 7 and 21 days later. Cervical hemisection did not significantly alter the alpha 2-adrenoceptor binding site density in these same cats either 2, 7, or 21 days after performance of the lesion. It is concluded that alpha 2-adrenoceptors located on the terminals of descending noradrenergic or other spinopetal fibers do not represent a significant fraction of the total population of alpha 2-adrenoceptors present in the dorsal or ventral cat lumbar enlargement.
A method for measuring the concentration and turnover of serotonin, dopamine and noradrenaline in small amounts of brain tissue was validated for the ring dove (Streptopelia risoria). Turnover rates of the catecholamines calculated as the rate of depletion after tyrosine hydroxylase inhibition agreed well with turnover rate measured as rate of accumulation after inhibition of monoamine oxidase at 2.5 h, but not 5 h, after drug administration. Using the monoamine oxidase inhibitor, pargyline, turnover of serotonin, dopamine and noradrenaline were estimated in the same tissue. Both the concentration and turnover of the amines in hypothalamus, paleostriatum and hyperstriatum fluctuated over a 24 h period. Serotonin turnover was greatest during the middle of the dark period in all three tissues. In contrast, for both dopamine and noradrenaline the highest turnover was observed during the light period and the lowest during the dark period.
Extracellular records were made from subthalamic nucleus neurons during microiontophoretic application of drugs and stimulation of the corticosubthalamic nucleus pathway. In 87% of the subthalamic nucleus cells, cortical stimulation induced a powerful excitation, consisting of a burst of 1-7 spikes. This projection must arise from a large area of the cortex since stimulation of nearly all the ipsilateral cortex and the rostral two-thirds of the contralateral cortex was found to influence the activity of subthalamic nucleus neurons. Experiments were undertaken in order to determine the identity of the neurotransmitter involved in the corticosubthalamic nucleus pathway. Glutamic acid diethyl ester reversibly suppressed subthalamic nucleus excitations induced by ipsi- or contralateral cortical stimulation or microiontophoretically applied glutamate. On the same cells, this compound had no effect on acetylcholine-evoked excitation and gamma-aminobutyric acid-evoked inhibition and subthalamic excitation induced by stimulation of the tegmenti pedunculopontine nucleus. Atropine at doses which antagonized the acetylcholine response, flupenthixol at dose which antagonized the dopamine response, and bicuculline at doses which antagonized the gamma-aminobutyric acid response failed to block excitations evoked by cortical stimulation and by glutamate. These experiments excluded a role for acetylcholine, dopamine and gamma-aminobutyric acid in the cortically evoked excitation of subthalamic nucleus cells. Since an amino acid seemed to play a role as neurotransmitter of the corticosubthalamic nucleus pathway, further experiments were designed to confirm these data and to determine the contribution of each amino acid receptor type in the cortical-induced excitation of subthalamic cells. All the subthalamic cells recorded were also excited by microiontophoretically applied N-methyl-D-aspartic, quisqualic and kainic acids. The cortical-evoked activation of subthalamic nucleus neurons was reversibly suppressed by kynurenic acid and cis-2,3-piperidine dicarboxylic acid, two broad-spectrum antagonists of excitatory amino acids, microiontophoretically applied at doses which also blocked excitations induced by N-methyl-D-aspartic, quisqualic and kainic acids. Application of 2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid inhibited excitation induced by N-methyl-D-aspartic acid but not those elicited by quisqualic or kainic acid, while glutamate excitation was only slightly affected. This compound had no effect on the cortically evoked excitation of subthalamic nucleus neurons.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The functional and anatomical organizations of the magnocellular part of the red nucleus are now well established. Our knowledge of the parvocellular part is, however, more limited. Using both anterograde and retrograde tracing methods, the present study suggests in the rat the existence of a large projection from the posterior thalamic nucleus to the parvocellular part of the red nucleus. In turn, the parvocellular part of the red nucleus sends a weaker projection to the posterior thalamic nucleus. Three different tracers were utilized (horseradish peroxidase alone, horseradish peroxidase conjugated to wheat germ agglutinin and Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin), all of which gave similar results. The posterior thalamic nucleus is known to receive a large proportion of somatosensory afferents. It is suggested, therefore, that in addition to receiving cerebellar and cortical inputs, the parvocellular part of the red nucleus has access to highly integrated somatosensory and/or nociceptive information delivered by the posterior thalamic nucleus.
The pattern of connections between the nucleus basalis, neostriatum, hyperstriatum ventrale, paleostriatum complex and archistriatum in the mallard has been analysed using Nissl material and a combination of neuroanatomical tracing procedures (autoradiography, horseradish peroxidase and horseradish peroxidase-wheat germ agglutinin histochemistry, lesion/degeneration technique). The frontal part of the mallard's telencephalon is characterized by its multilayered organization and the predominantly vertical arrangement of the connecting fiber systems. The nucleus basalis, endstation of the ascending sensory trigeminal system, is a large laminar cell area with a dorsal and a ventral layer. The overlying neostriatum frontale can be subdivided into a medial, a dorsal and a ventral intermediate, and a lateral area. The nucleus basalis has distinct connections with the ventral layer and sparse connections with the dorsal layer of the intermediate neostriatum, and abundant reciprocal connections with the ventral layer of the hyperstriatum ventrale. The ventral intermediate neostriatum also has reciprocal connections with the hyperstriatum ventrale; its projections overlap partly with those from the nucleus basalis. The ventral layer of the intermediate neostriatum frontale has a distinct projection upon the paleostriatum augmentatum. The dorsal layer sends fibers to the lateral neostriatum, to the rostral &quot;sensorimotor&quot; part of the archistriatum and to the lateral zone of the lobus parolfactorius. Another source of archistriatal afferents is the paleostriatum ventrale, an area that may also send fibers to the brainstem. Figure 21 summarizes the connections described in this paper. The functional significance of this organization is discussed in relation to its possible role in the guidance of pecking and other feeding behaviors in the mallard. Differences in the organization of the systems in pigeon and mallard are related to the differing degrees of visual and tactile (trigeminal) contributions to feeding in the two birds. It is suggested that the pattern of reciprocal connections between the hyperstriatum ventrale and the nucleus basalis and ventral intermediate neostriatum frontale forms the neuroanatomical substrate for a &quot;comparator-system&quot;.
The density of alpha 2-adrenoceptor binding sites and the content of substance P, enkephalins, and neurotensin were determined in quadrants of the lumbar spinal enlargement of control cats and of cats upon which either unilateral dorsal root ganglionectomies or unilateral ventral rhizotomies had been performed. The performance of unilateral dorsal root ganglionectomies resulted in a significant decrease (45-55%) of substance P content in the ipsilateral dorsal horn 7 and 21 days postoperatively. The concentration of alpha 2-adrenoceptor binding sites ([3H]rauwolscine Bmax) in the ipsilateral dorsal horn was consistently and significantly decreased at these same postganglionectomy times (20% reduced relative to the contralateral dorsal horn). Enkephalin content 7 and 21 days after ganglionectomies was not significantly different from control, whereas the neurotensin content of the ipsilateral dorsal horn was significantly increased in the 21-day survival cats. The performance of unilateral ventral rhizotomies did not produce any statistically significant changes in the density of alpha 2-adrenoceptor binding sites or in the substance P or enkephalin content of any spinal quadrant. The neurotensin content of both the ipsilateral dorsal and ipsilateral ventral quadrants of the ventral rhizotomized cats was significantly increased. The significant decrease of alpha 2-adrenoceptor binding site concentration in the ipsilateral dorsal horn after unilateral dorsal root ganglionectomies suggests that approximately 20% of the alpha 2-adrenoceptors present within the cat lumbar spinal dorsal gray are located on the axons or terminals of primary sensory afferents. Consistent with this interpretation of the ganglionectomy results, we found significant levels of saturable [3H]rauwolscine binding to homogenates of the cat L4-Sl spinal dorsal root ganglia. Because alpha 2-adrenoceptor binding sites in the ipsilateral ventral lumbar spinal gray were not significantly reduced after unilateral ventral rhizotomies, our results provide no evidence for the location of alpha 2-adrenoceptor on lumbar spinal motoneurons.
The descending projections from the ventrolateral medial reticular formation to the lumbar motoneuronal cell groups were studied in rat at the ultrastructural level using the anterograde transport of wheat germ agglutinin coupled to horseradish peroxidase in combination with the chromogen tetramethyl benzidine. The tissue containing the horseradish peroxidase reaction products was processed for electron microscopy using the method of chemical dehydration. In the ultrathin sections of the lumbar motoneuronal cell groups reaction products were easily recognized by their electron-dense crystal-like structure. These crystals were mostly found in terminals (66%) and to a lesser extent in axons (10%) and dendrites (10%). In the lumbar motoneuronal cell groups six different types of terminals were distinguished. It was found that F-type terminal profiles most frequently contained crystals, whereas fewer S- and G-types did so. The various findings are basically the same as those of a similar ultrastructural autoradiographic study with [3H]leucine as a tracer, except for the labelling of dendrites, which is discussed. It is concluded that the horseradish peroxidase technique employed in the present study can be reliably used for anterograde tracing at the ultrastructural level. Its advantages and disadvantages in comparison with the electron microscopical autoradiographic technique are discussed.
Six potential therapeutic agents were evaluated in an experimental model simulating Reye syndrome produced by infusion of the short-chain fatty acid, sodium octanoate, into rabbits. Administration of carnitine, dexamethasone, or fatty acid-free albumin resulted in prolongation of survival, less rise in intracranial pressure, and amelioration of some of the metabolic abnormalities found typically during octanoate infusion. Treatment with pentobarbital or dimethyl sulfoxide prevented intracranial pressure elevations but had no protective effect on survival. Hypertonic glucose administration produced no improvement in any of the parameters studied.
Experiments on a &quot;caprone-thread&quot; model demonstrated that the method suggested by S. M. Blinkov and G. D. Moiseev produced adequate results of measurement of firm linear structures in all series of sections 10 to 60 microns thick with 95% level of reliability. The integration method produces an error of 300 to 600% which depends on the thickness of the section.


By thermovision technique and images digital processing, thermal fields and reactions of dorsal cortical surface of 15 white rats were studied through the intact skull in various times after transplantation of the embryonal visual cortex, amygdala and hippocampus into the visual cortex. After operation significant thermoasymmetries arise outside transplantation area which in early periods (2-15 days) are dynamic, and in 5-5.5 months become stabilized. At successful implantation, transplantat area in background state in late terms is not thermodistinct, and in pseudo-transplanted animals--is cooled. In transplantat area, a changed thermoreaction to light stimulation is recorded, and in early terms it is connected with thermal flow from neighbouring cortical sites.

This article is a scientific interpretation of Vedic, Upanishadic, Tantric and Puranic conceptions of Cakras &amp; 'Ardhanareeshwara' in the light of modern neuro psychological research. It also attempts to make striking similarities between the 'twin brain' and the concept of 'Ardhanareeshwara' and to show how the Ancient Indian sages conceptualized this 'two in one', brain reality long ago what neurosciences are just trying to understand now.


The general designations of neural systems and their levels of organization as presently applied in the neurosciences are described as being at variance with rigorous systems thinking. It is proposed that the rule-driven use of systems terminology and hierarchies would facilitate investigations of neural functioning in the natural case. General systems theory with its major propositions for hierarchical organization, open systems, and equifinality, is presented as providing the guidelines for developing systems-type theories for neuroscience investigations. General systems theory as metatheory is also used to evaluate hierarchies and systems designations in the neurosciences as these concepts are now applied in theories, models, and research. The metatheory is comprised of three sets of rules: the criteria for hierarchies; the properties of the open biological system; the criteria for the final conditions of open biological systems. The notion of the discovery of neural systems is contrasted with the apparent design of systems as frequently practiced by neuroscientists. The metatheory is summarized as directions for developing theories and as questions directed toward any neuroscience theory proposing levels of organization and systems.

Significantly more of 300 patients with non-endogenous depression compared with 300 matched controls were unemployed and had a poor marriage before the onset of depression, had a first-degree relative who had been treated for depression, had experienced separation for one year or more from a parent before 17 years of age and had three or more children under 14 years of age at home. However, significantly more of 44 patients with endogenous depression, than their 46 controls, also had a poor marriage before the onset of depression and 43% of them had a first-degree relative who had been treated for depression. Thus a family history of depression and a poor marriage before the onset of depression are associated with both non-endogenous and endogenous depression but unemployment, separation for one year or more from a parent before 17 years of age, and having three or more young children at home may be risk factors for non-endogenous depression.

A new retrograde tracer, rhodamine latex microspheres, permits labeled neurons to be visualized with fluorescence light microscopy. However, their use has been limited to the light microscope. We now have developed colloidal gold fluorescent microspheres which identify retrogradely labeled neurons first by fluorescence microscopy and then by electron microscopy. This new fluorescent/EM tracer will find widespread use in the field of neuroscience to elucidate the ultrastructural integrity of neuronal networks.

Spasmophilia is a problem much debated as regards its nosographic location. Its paroxysmal onset in a &quot;neurotic&quot; patient has confined spasmophilia within a psychiatric syndromic complex for many years. In the present study, strict clinical criteria used in selecting a population of spasmophilic patients included clinical, neurophysiological, biohumoral and psychological evaluations, providing further information about the real organic features of this syndrome. Moreover, on the basis of an organic pathogenetic hypothesis, all patients were administered medical therapy which resulted in clinical amelioration in a significant number of cases.
The present study was aimed at assessing the utility of a scale to measure alexithymia in the Indian cultural set up. Vernacular version of the Toronto Alexithymia Scale (TAS) a newly devised self report alexithymia scale was assessed for its psychometric properties in a sample of 116 normal subjects. The scale was found to have adequate internal consistency and test-retest reliability. Factor analysis with varimax procedure yielded a four factor solution consistent with the construct of alexithymia. The results of the study indicate that the TAS could be a potentially useful instrument to assess alexithymia in our cultural set up.
Photic signals affect circadian activity rhythms by both phasic and tonic mechanisms that modulate pacemaker phase and period. In mammals, the effects of light on circadian activity are mediated by the retina, which communicates with the suprahiasmatic nucleus (SCN) by two different anatomical routes: the retino-hypothalamic tract (RHT), originating in the retina, and the geniculo-hypothalamic tract (GHT), arising from a retino-recipient nucleus, the intergeniculate leaflet (IGL). We assessed the roles of these two afferent systems in mediating phasic and tonic effects of light on circadian activity in IGL-lesioned animals. Destruction of the IGL significantly affected phase shifts produced by brief light pulses (phasic effect) and modified the change in period (tau) of the free-running activity rhythm produced by changing the level of constant light (LL) (tonic effect). Phase advances produced by brief light pulses were decreased in amplitude while phase delays were increased in IGL-lesioned animals as compared to controls. The free-running period in constant dark (tau DD) of IGL-lesioned animals was greater than tau DD of controls, and the lengthening of tau normally produced by LL was not observed or was greatly reduced in IGL-lesioned animals. Entrainment to light-dark cycles was unaffected by the lesions, as were other aspects of the circadian activity rhythm that normally change in response to LL (e.g., activity-rest ratio, total activity, splitting). Our data support the interpretation that the IGL plays a significant role in relaying information regarding illumination intensity to the SCN.

David Hartley's association psychology has been immensely influential. His vibrationist neurophysiology has, in contrast, been largely overlooked and forgotten. Hartley's vibration theory is examined. On the one hand it is shown how closely it is related to Sir Isaac Newton's mathematical physics and on the other how well it complements the association theory. The vibration theory, indeed, strongly influenced Hartley's associationist psychology and hence is of more than merely antiquarian interest. Although Hartley's understanding of the central nervous system has long been superseded, his general ideas prefigure some aspects of contemporary neurophysiology and philosophy of mind and thus provide a further reason for rescuing his vibrationism from oblivion.

Computer-assisted instruction (CAI) includes games, tutorials, simulations, and drills. Computer simulation exercises can be used to simulate patient care and promote diagnostic reasoning skills in nursing. Computer simulation exercises (CSEs) based on case studies of patients with head injury, spinal cord injury, epilepsy, febrile seizures and meningitis have been developed and implemented at the University of Washington School of Nursing, Department of Physiological Nursing, in conjunction with the Health Sciences Center for Educational Resources. These simulations provide a realistic, constantly changing scenerio in which the nurse-learner collects data, analyzes it, and makes decisions about the patient's nursing care. The patient's condition may change dramatically as a result of the decisions made by the nurse-learner.
Pregnant women with epilepsy have a greater risk for complications of pregnancy and adverse pregnancy outcomes. Problems that may arise during the course of pregnancy include an increase in seizure frequency, reduction of serum antiepileptic drug levels, and an increase in bleeding during pregnancy and after delivery. The infant of an epileptic mother is at twice the risk of infants in the general population to have a major malformation, and the risk for perinatal death is 1.2 to 3 times greater. Despite these facts, at least 90% of women with epilepsy have a normal pregnancy and deliver a normal infant. The pregnant woman with epilepsy may minimize the risk of adverse outcome by taking measures to ensure an optimal prenatal course. The neuroscience nurse can provide these clients with accurate information regarding pregnancy and epilepsy and can review measures that may be taken to reduce chances of an unfavorable outcome.

The ability of purified bovine neurointermediate pituitary peptidyl glycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase to catalyze the conversion of peptide substrates (D-Tyr-X-Gly) into amidated product peptides (D-Tyr-X-NH2) was evaluated. The pH optimum of the reaction was pH 8.5 when X was Val, Trp, or Pro, but 5.5 to 6.0 when X was Glu. Similar maximum velocity (Vmax) values were obtained for the Val, Trp, and Pro substrates while the Glu substrate had a substantially higher Vmax. The Michaelis-Menten constant (Km) of the enzyme for the peptide substrate increased in the order Trp less than Val less than Pro much less than Glu. Increasing levels of ascorbate brought about parallel increases in Km and Vmax, suggesting the presence of an irreversible step separating the interaction of the enzyme with the two substrates. The effect of copper on enzyme activity was dependent on the peptide substrate and the reaction pH. With the Val substrate, exogenous copper was required for optimal activity; no other metal ion tested could substitute for copper. With the Glu substrate, exogenous copper was not required for optimal activity; however, diethyldithiocarbamate, a copper chelator, inhibited activity and only copper could reverse this inhibitory effect. The ability of various cofactors to stimulate alpha-amidating monooxygenase activity was also dependent on assay conditions. With the Val or Glu substrate in the presence of exogenous copper, a variety of cofactors in addition to ascorbate were capable of supporting activity. With the Glu substrate in the absence of exogenous copper, the requirement of the enzyme for ascorbate was more strict. In keeping with the proposed reaction mechanism, nearly 1 mol ascorbate was consumed for each mole of D-Tyr-Glu-NH2 produced.

This article summarizes some of our knowledge concerning intracellular protein phosphorylation pathways in nerve cells. It also summarizes, very briefly, recent direct experimental evidence involving intracellular injection of protein kinases, protein kinase inhibitors, and substrates, indicating that protein phosphorylation mediates the actions of a variety of neurotransmitters on their target cells. Finally, it summarizes in somewhat greater detail the results of studies of three different types of substrate proteins that appear to regulate different types of biological responses in nerve cells: synapsin I, a substrate protein present in virtually all nerve terminals, which appears to regulate neurotransmitter release from those nerve terminals; the acetylcholine receptor, the phosphorylation of which regulates its rate of desensitization in the presence of acetylcholine; and DARPP-32, the phosphorylation of which converts it into a very potent phosphoprotein phosphatase inhibitor that may be involved in the regulation by the neuromodulator dopamine of the effects of the neurotransmitter glutamate. The identification and characterization of additional neuronal phosphoproteins can be expected to lead to the clarification of numerous additional molecular mechanisms by which signal transduction is carried out in nerve cells.
Quantitative and qualitative analysis of crossed vs uncrossed projections from the substantia nigra, entopeduncular nucleus and individual cerebellar nuclei to the thalamus was undertaken in nine adult cats using retrograde labeling with horseradish peroxidase and fluorescent dyes. The results indicate that about 90% of entopeduncular nucleus neurons and 50% of substantia nigra neurons give rise to ipsilateral projections to the thalamus whereas the contralateral component of these projections originates from about 10 and 7% neurons of entopeduncular nucleus and substantia nigra, respectively. Some of the fibers constituting the contralateral component are represented by branching axon collaterals of the neurons projecting ipsilaterally. In the basal ganglia thalamic projection, its minor component (contralateral) targets the ventral anterior and ventral medial nuclei the same as its major component (ipsilateral). However, some preferential distribution of the contralateral projections to the ventral medial nucleus appears to exist. In regard to the cerebellothalamic projections it was found that about 90% of neurons located in the dentate and interpositus nuclei and 50% of neurons in the fastigial nucleus project to the contralateral thalamus while 16% of dentate nucleus neurons and 40% of fastigial nucleus neurons give rise to the ipsilateral cerebellothalamic projections. A considerable number of ipsilateral cerebellothalamic fibers are represented by divergent axon collaterals of the same neurons projecting to the contralateral thalamus. The cerebellothalamic projections from all cerebellar nuclei including the fastigial nucleus are targeted primarily to the ventral lateral nucleus both contra- and ipsilaterally. The ventral medial nucleus receives bilateral input from the fastigial nucleus which originates from about one quarter of the thalamus projecting neurons in this nucleus. Of all other cerebellar nuclei only the dentate nucleus projects to the ventral medial nucleus and this projection is exclusively contralateral.
The entire dorsal and lateral cortex of one cerebral hemisphere of rats was infiltrated with different fluorescent tracers and the neostriatum was examined for labelled perikarya. In spite of the extensive infiltration of the cortex, such neurons were seen only sporadically in the ipsilateral neostriatum and almost only in the vicinity of the globus pallidus and the subcortical white matter. The size and shape of these neurons, and particularly their proximity to some cell groups which surround the neostriatum and project to the cerebral cortex, suggest that these neurons belong to the neighbouring structures such as the magnocellular nuclei of the basal forebrain, the claustrum and the VIb cortical layer.
Literature presents divergent hypotheses on the histogenesis of the subthalamic nucleus. The basal plate of the mesencephalon, the dorsal hypothalamus (or the longitudinal subthalamic zone) and an area closely related to the mammillary nucleus have all been proposed as the site of origin of the neurons of the subthalamic nucleus. However, based on the selective labelling of neurons of this nucleus by the [3H]thymidine ARG technique, our results clearly show that a germinative zone lying caudally along the dorsal aspect of the mammillary recess is responsible for the formation of the neurons of the subthalamic nucleus. From this site of origin, the neurons migrate radially and then tangentially and dorsally along the marginal layer of the ventral diencephalon. The present study gives a detailed account of the histogenesis of the subthalamic nucleus of the rat through successive stage of development. Our data also show that the same proliferative neuroepithelial matrix that gives rise to the subthalamic neurons is also responsible for the genesis of the neurons of the supramammillary and submammillothalamic nuclei. Some aspects of the cytological maturation of the neurons of the subthalamic nucleus are also given.
Isolated receptor cells were obtained by enzymatic dissociation of nasal sacs from the land-phase tiger salamander. The isolated cells have an ovoid soma, a dendrite of variable length which terminates in a cilia-bearing knob and an axon, also of variable length. Intracellular recordings were obtained using patch pipettes. Good recordings were characterized by resting potentials of -40 mV, high input impedance and the presence of fast overshooting action potentials upon depolarization or rebound excitation. With one cell, chemical stimulation evoked large depolarizations which produced action potentials. The reversal potential of this response was +2.7 mV. The results show that these cells can be dissociated for patch recordings, and they support previous studies indicating that transduction of olfactory stimuli leads to a depolarization of vertebrate olfactory receptor neurons.
Neurons in the central nervous system of mammals and many other species receive most of their synaptic inputs in their dendritic branches and spines, but the precise manner in which this information is processed in the dendrites is not understood. In order to gain insight into these mechanisms, simulations of interactions between distal dendritic spines with an excitable membrane have been carried out, using an electrical circuit analysis program for the compartmental representation of a dendrite and several spines. Interactions between responses to single and paired excitatory and inhibitory synaptic inputs have been analyzed. Basic logic operations, including AND gates, OR gates and AND-NOT gates, arise from these interactions. The results suggest the computational power and precision of excitable spines in distal branches of neuronal dendrites, especially those of pyramidal neurons in the cerebral cortex. The applicability to information processing in distal dendrites is discussed.
The anatomical distribution of serotonin-2 receptors in the human brain was studied by light microscopic autoradiography, using [3H]ketanserin as a ligand. The receptor densities were quantified by microdensitometry with the aid of a computer-assisted image-analysis system. A heterogeneous distribution of serotonin-2 receptor densities was found in the human brain. Very high concentrations were localized over layers III and V of several cortical areas, including the frontal, parietal, temporal and occipital lobes, the anterogenual cortex and the entorhinal area, as well as in the corpus mamillare of the hypothalamus. The claustrum, nucleus lateralis of the amygdala and some cortical layers also presented a high density of serotonin-2 receptors. Intermediate concentrations were found over the hippocampus, the caudatus, putamen and accumbens nuclei, and some nuclei of the amygdala, among other structures. Areas such as the thalamus, brain stem, cerebellum and spinal cord contained, in general, only low to very low densities of serotonin-2 receptors. A very high level of non-specific binding, which was not displaceable by any serotonin-2 compound, was found in some areas of the human brain, including the caudatus and putamen nuclei, the substantia nigra and the raph nuclei. The distribution of serotonin-2 receptors in the human brain described herein is discussed in relation to the distribution of serotonergic innervation, the central effects which have been proposed to be serotonin-2-mediated, and the neuropathological characteristics of the diseases where a modification in the number of serotonin-2 receptors has been reported.
A complete transverse hemisection of the neuraxis just caudal to the optic tectum in the frog, Rana pipiens, results in a failure to orient toward stimuli in one visual hemifield [Kostyk and Grobstein (1986) Neuroscience 21, 41-55]. This finding indicates that each tectal lobe gives rise to a crossed descending pathway adequate to cause turns in a direction contralateral to that tectal lobe, and suggests that each may also give rise to an uncrossed descending pathway adequate to cause turns in the ipsilateral direction. To determine whether there is in fact such an uncrossed pathway, we have studied the orienting behavior of frogs after lesions which interrupt crossed pathways. Two groups of animals were studied. In one group we made midline lesions of the ansulate commissure, through which run the major crossed descending projections from both tectal lobes. In the other group, we combined a complete transverse hemisection with removal of the tectal lobe on the same side of the brain, leaving intact only an uncrossed pathway from one tectal lobe. A persistence of orienting turns was observed in both groups of animals. In both, the direction of the turns was that expected on the assumption that an uncrossed pathway would cause ipsilateral turns. We conclude that such a pathway exists. While both groups of animals turned in the expected directions, they did so for stimuli at unexpected locations. Increasingly eccentric stimulus locations to one side of the mid-sagittal plane were associated with increasing amplitude turns to the other. The observation suggests that tectal regions mapping areas of visual space to one side of the mid-sagittal plane are capable of triggering turns not only in that direction but in the opposite direction as well. In the case of ansulate commissure section, mirrored orienting responses were observed for tactile stimuli as well. These and other behavioral anomalies described in the preceding papers [Kostyk and Grobstein (1986) Neuroscience 21, 41-55 and 57-82] suggest that between the topographic retinotectal projection and the premotor circuitry for orienting there may exist an intermediate processing step, one in which stimulus location is represented in a generalized spatial coordinate frame.
A complete transverse hemisection of the neuraxis just caudal to the optic tectum in the frog, Rana pipiens, results in a failure to orient toward stimuli in one visual hemifield [Kostyk and Grobstein (1986) Neuroscience 21, 41-55]. The extent of the deficit area implies disturbances in the outputs triggered by both tectal lobes. In this paper we report studies aimed at determining more precisely what damage is involved in producing the hemisection deficit, with the broader objective of identifying particular neural structures which may be important in visually elicited orienting. Small lesions at the level of the hemisection which are restricted to the ventromedial white tracts result in an orienting deficit identical to that produced by a complete hemisection. Large lesions which spare the ventromedial white tracts are without significant effect on orienting turns. The finding is consistent with the hypothesis that the hemisection deficit results from interruption of tectal outflow paths. Interestingly, partial damage of the ventromedial white tracts does not result in disconnection of any local tectal region from premotor circuitry but instead systematically alters the turns triggered from all tectal regions. Ventrolateral lesions at the same level do not produce deficits in orienting but do disturb optokinetic behavior. Introduction of horseradish peroxidase into ventromedial lesions produces retrograde labeling in a large number of structures both rostral and caudal of the lesion. Labeling patterns following introduction of horseradish peroxidase into ventrolateral lesions, which do not affect orienting turns, were qualitatively similar but differed quantitatively. The observed patterns of tectal cell labeling make it unlikely that the hemisection deficit can be accounted for in terms of interruption of direct projections deriving from complementary regions of the two tectal lobes. They also indicate that if there exists an uncrossed tectal outflow adequate to trigger orienting turns, it must be by way of an indirect projection. A more general analysis of the labeling patterns suggests that a crossed tectal projection and uncrossed projections from three midbrain tegmental nuclei (the anterodorsal tegmental nucleus, the nucleus profunds lateralis and the nucleus of the medial longitudinal fasciculus) are likely to be involved in triggering orienting turns. The three midbrain tegmental nuclei are of particular interest in that they provide possible anatomical substrates for an indirect uncrossed descending tectal outflow path.
We have studied the effects on frog orienting behavior of three lesions: unilateral optic nerve section, unilateral tectal lobe ablation, and unilateral transverse hemisection of the neuraxis at a level just caudal to the optic tectum. Unilateral optic nerve section and unilateral tectal lobe ablation produce very similar deficits in visually elicited responses to prey items, an absence of responses for stimuli at locations within the monocular field of one eye. Unilateral hemisection, in contrast, results in abnormalities in visually elicited responses over a wider area, encompassing the entire ipsilateral visual hemifield. The hemisection deficit also differs in character from that following optic nerve section or tectal lesion. Within the affected hemifield, frogs do not fail to respond to stimuli but rather respond with abnormally directed movements. The movements, regardless of stimulus eccentricity on the horizontal, are always forwardly directed. While not varying with horizontal eccentricity, the movements do vary with stimulus elevation and distance. The variation with stimulus distance in the affected hemifield is somewhat different from that in the opposite hemifield. We conclude from the behavior that remains after hemisection lesions that there must exist bilateral descending tectofugal paths capable of triggering movements which vary with stimulus elevation and distance, and a crossed descending tectofugal path capable of triggering turns into one visual hemifield. That the deficit area is larger following a hemisection than following tectal lobe ablation indicates that the hemisection has affected the ability of both tectal lobes to trigger turns in one direction. A possible interpretation of this finding is that the lesion has interrupted not only the crossed descending tectofugal path from one tectal lobe but an uncrossed descending tectofugal path from the other. This hypothetical pathway as well as the others mentioned is incorporated in a model of the organization of the post-tectal circuitry involved in orienting.
[Met5]enkephalin-Arg6-Phe7-(MEAP-) and [Met5]enkephalin-Arg6-Gly7-Leu8-(MEAGL-) immunoreactivity was studied by indirect immunohistochemistry in the superior cervical ganglion of the rat with specific antisera produced in rabbits against the corresponding synthetic opioid peptides. Several MEAP- and a few MEAGL-immunoreactive principal nerve cells were observed in the ganglion, while the small intensely fluorescent cells appeared as non-reactive. The superior cervical ganglion also contained dense networks of MEAP- and MEAGL-immunoreactive nerve fibres, which often formed basket-like structures around the principal nerve cells and small intensely fluorescent cells. After ligation of the preganglionic nerve trunk with simultaneous transection of the main postganglionic trunks, a distinct accumulation of both MEAP- and MEAGL-immunoreactivity was observed on both sides of the ligature. Ligation of the preganglionic nerve trunk caused a marked decrease in the number of both MEAP- and MEAGL-immunoreactive nerve fibres in the ganglion. Ligation of the main postganglionic nerve trunks with simultaneous preganglionic nerve division resulted in accumulation of MEAP- and MEAGL-immunoreactive material on the ganglionic side of the ligature in both the external and internal carotid nerve. After division of both the pre- and postganglionic nerve trunks, some immunoreactive nerve fibres and principal nerve cells were still observed in the ganglion. A few immunoreactive neurons and nerve fibres were also observed in the ganglion stellatum. A large number of MEAP- and MEAGL-immunoreactive nerve fibres was detected in the spinal cord at the levels C6-Th6. A few neurons in the intermediolateral cell column of the spinal cord at levels C8-Th1 showed MEAP- but not MEAGL-immunoreactivity. The cultured superior cervical ganglion contained a few MEAP-immunoreactive neurons, and the fibre outgrowth showed immunoreactivity both to MEAP and MEAGL. In electron microscopy, MEAGL-immunoreactivity in the superior cervical ganglion was localized in nerve fibres containing neurotubules and in principal nerve cells. The present results demonstrate that the rat superior cervical ganglion contains both extrinsic and intrinsic MEAP- and MEAGL-immunoreactive nerve fibres. Most of these fibres are of preganglionic origin. Both the principal nerve and small intensely fluorescent cells are often surrounded by MEAP- or MEAGL-immunoreactive nerve fibres and may receive innervation by these fibres. Several ganglionic neurons projecting to the sympathetic target tissues show MEAP- and/or MEAGL-immunoreactivity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The location of L-glutamate decarboxylase and gamma-aminobutyrate (GABA)-transaminase immunoreactivity in the superior cervical ganglion and in the coeliac-superior mesenteric ganglion complex of the rat was studied by an indirect immunofluorescence method and by immunoelectron microscopy, with specific antisera raised in rabbits against the corresponding enzymes. In light microscopy, several glutamate decarboxylase- or GABA-transaminase-immunoreactive principal nerve cells were detected in the superior cervical ganglion and coeliac-superior mesenteric ganglion complex. In addition, numerous small cells in both the superior cervical ganglion and coeliac-superior mesenteric ganglion complex showed intense immunoreactivity to glutamate decarboxylase or GABA-transaminase. The small cells were 10-20 micron in diameter and resembled in size and morphology the small intensely fluorescent cells. In consecutive sections, the small glutamate decarboxylase-immunoreactive cell clusters also showed immunoreactivity to tyrosine hydroxylase, suggesting that these cells contain the enzymes for both GABA and catecholamine synthesis. In the superior cervical ganglion and in the coeliac-superior mesenteric ganglion complex, GABA-transaminase immunoreactivity was also localized in fibre-like processes around and between the principal nerve cells, in nerve trunks traversing the ganglia, and around or in close contact with ganglionic blood vessels. Furthermore, GABA-transaminase immunoreactivity was observed in fibre-like structures close to the capsule of the ganglia. Division of the preganglionic nerve trunk of the superior cervical ganglion caused no detectable change in GABA-transaminase immunoreactivity in the ganglion. In immunoelectron microscopy of the superior cervical ganglion, GABA-transaminase immunoreactivity was localized in nerve fibres in association with neurotubules. A large number of GABA-transaminase labelled principal nerve cells were detected, containing immunoreactivity evenly distributed in their cytoplasm. GABA-transaminase immunoreactivity was also observed in satellite cells and their processes in the superior cervical ganglion. The present immunocytochemical results provide evidence that the rat sympathetic ganglia contain an intrinsic neuronal system showing histochemical markers for GABA synthesis and inactivation, but its functional role in the modulation of ganglionic neurotransmission remains to be established.
Serotonin and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) neurons in the nucleus raphe dorsalis were identified by immunocytochemistry using antibodies to 5-hydroxytryptamine or GABA. The pattern of the 5-hydroxytryptamine and GABA immunostaining presented similar features: 5-hydroxytryptamine or GABA immunoreactive somata were fusiform or ovoid (15-20 micron) and positive dendritic profiles were found either without any connection with other nerve elements or in contact with one or several terminals. In addition, some 5-hydroxytryptamine nerve endings were apposed to 5-hydroxytryptamine immunoreactive cell bodies or dendrites; also some GABA-immunopositive terminals were in contact with GABA-immunopositive nerve cell bodies. On the other hand, GABA and 5-hydroxytryptamine patterns may be differentiated in several respects: the 5-hydroxytryptamine-reactive nerve cell bodies were more numerous than the GABA ones. Some small, round (8-10 micron) nerve cell bodies were reactive with GABA antiserum, but no neurons of this type were reactive with a 5-hydroxytryptamine antiserum; finally, GABA nerve terminals were more numerous than 5-hydroxytryptamine ones. In order to understand the relationship between GABA and 5-hydroxytryptamine neurons, radioautographic and immunocytochemical procedures were combined: 5-hydroxytryptamine and GABA immunocytochemistry was combined with radioautography of [3H]GABA and [3H]5-hydroxytryptamine uptake, respectively. Some nerve cell bodies, dendrites or terminals, which were 5-hydroxytryptamine-immunopositive, were also capable of accumulating [3H]GABA and, conversely, some GABA-immunopositive elements were capable of accumulating [3H]5-hydroxytryptamine. Moreover, several nerve elements were reactive with both glutamate decarboxylase and 5-hydroxytryptamine antisera. These data confirm in electron microscopy previous studies suggesting the coexistence of both GABA and 5-hydroxytryptamine in the same neurons. The presence of uptake mechanisms for GABA and 5-hydroxytryptamine may indicate the action of both neurotransmitters in the same neuron. On the other hand, the [3H]GABA-labelled nerve endings in contact with 5-hydroxytryptamine-positive dendrites or nerve cell bodies indicate the possibility of a GABAergic control of the activity of some 5-hydroxytryptamine neurons; this corroborates biochemical and electrophysiological studies whereby a trans-synaptic control of the 5-hydroxytryptamine neurons by GABA may be envisaged.
The ventrobasal thalamus of seven rats was processed for immunocytochemistry using antisera to glutamate decarboxylase or gamma-aminobutyrate (GABA). Glutamate decarboxylase-stained sections showed a network of stained fibers and terminals but no stained cell bodies. GABA-stained sections had fewer stained fibers and terminals but did show a few stained cell bodies. Cell bodies were especially apparent when carbazole was used for a chromogen for the peroxidase-antiperoxidase visualization. The GABA-stained cells were found to be distributed throughout the ventrobasal complex, to have smaller soma cross-sectional areas than most other cells (81 +/- 34 microns vs 105 +/- 36 microns for all cells) and to make up 0.4 +/- 0.3% of the neuronal population of the ventrobasal complex. Injections of horseradish peroxidase into the somatosensory cortex (SI) retrogradely filled many neurons in the ventrobasal thalamus, but none of these labeled neurons were double labeled with GABA. These results indicate that the GABA-labeled cells probably represent a small population of local circuit neurons in the rat ventrobasal thalamus.
Hypogonadal mice are deficient in the hypothalamic gonadotrophic hormone releasing hormone and as a consequence postnatal testicular development does not occur. Grafting preoptic area tissue from normal mice directly into the hypogonadal third ventricle dramatically reverses the hypogonadism; however, the age of the grafted preoptic area tissue is crucial to the survival and function of the graft. Grafting embryonic tissue (E16-18) resulted in 69% of the hypogonadal mice increasing testis weight some sevenfold within 30 days (5.6 to 35 mg). Postnatal day 1 (P1) tissue grafts elicited a similar rise in testis weight in 77% of recipients, whereas P5 tissue was only successful in 22% of cases. In this experimental group, however, testis weight also increased sevenfold compared with hypogonadal untreated mice. Stimulation of testicular growth in the E16-18 and P1 experimental groups was accompanied by an increase in pituitary gonadotrophic hormone content. P10 tissue did not stimulate testis growth nor was pituitary gonadotrophic hormone control elevated and the majority of grafts failed to survive over the 30 day period of the experiment. The present study has shown that the age of grafted tissue is critical in the restoration of physiological function in hypogonadal mice, and that gonadotrophic hormone releasing hormone neurons from E16-18, P1 and P5 preoptic area grafts that survive the 30 day period of the experiment and whose axons reach the median eminence portal vessels are equipotent in stimulating pituitary gonadotrophin synthesis and secretion.
The anatomical distribution of serotonin-1 receptors in human postmortem brain tissue was studied by quantitative light microscopic autoradiography. [3H]Serotonin was used to label all the subtypes of serotonin-1 sites (serotonin-1A, serotonin-1B, serotonin-1C). Serotonin-1A receptors were specifically labelled with [3H]8-hydroxy-2-[N,N-di-N-propyl-amino]tetralin, while [3H]mesulergine was used to identify serotonin-1C receptors. Receptor densities were quantified by means of a computer-assisted microdensitometric system. Confirming previous findings, serotonin-1A and serotonin-1C receptors were found in the human brain, while sites with the pharmacological characteristics of serotonin-1B binding sites could not be identified in this tissue. In addition, serotonin-1C receptors appeared to present differences in terms of pharmacology, depending on the brain area analysed. The distribution of both serotonin-1A and serotonin-1C receptor subtypes throughout the human brain was heterogeneous. High or very high densities of serotonin-1A receptors were found over the Ca1 field of the hippocampus, raph nuclei, layers I and II of the cortex and some nuclei of the thalamus and amygdala. The claustrum, posterior hypothalamus, mesencephalic and pontine central grey matter and substantia gelatinosa of the cervical spinal cord, among others, presented intermediate concentrations of serotonin-1A receptors. In contrast, high densities of serotonin-1C receptors were present in the choroid plexus, substantia nigra, globus pallidus and ventromedial hypothalamus, while low or very low amounts of this receptor subtype were found in many other human brain areas. The anatomical distribution of serotonin-1A and serotonin-1C receptors is discussed taking into account the distribution of serotonergic neurons and fibres, the central functions in which serotonin appears to be involved and the characteristics of the neurological and psychiatric disorders where changes in brain serotonin-1 receptors have been reported.

The spontaneous release of 5-hydroxytryptamine and its metabolite 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid from the enterochromaffin cells of the small intestine into the portal circulation was investigated in vitro using the vascularly perfused ileum of the guinea-pig. The release of 5-hydroxytryptamine decreased by 70% in a calcium-free medium and by 35% in the presence of tetrodotoxin. Inhibition of monoamine oxidase activity by pargyline (100 microM) had no effect on the spontaneous release of 5-hydroxytryptamine although it caused a 75% reduction in the outflow of 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid. Imipramine (1 microM), an inhibitor of neuronal uptake of 5-hydroxytryptamine, reduced the 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid outflow by 57% and increased the release of 5-hydroxytryptamine by 66%. The combination of both drugs showed no additional effect. The tissue content of 5-hydroxytryptamine and its metabolite was not changed after perfusion with the precursor L-tryptophan or monofluoromethyldopa, an inhibitor of the L-aromatic amino acid decarboxylase. The results show that the spontaneous release of 5-hydroxytryptamine and its metabolite reflects largely calcium-dependent exocytotic release of the amine. &quot;Neuronal uptake&quot; (into aminergic and/or enterochromaffin cells) followed by deamination appears to be the main pathway of 5-hydroxytryptamine catabolism in the guinea-pig ileum.
The topography of cholinergic and substance P containing habenulo-interpeduncular projections has been studied in the rat. The research has been carried out by combining choline acetyltransferase and substance P immunohistochemistry to experimental lesions and biochemical assays in microdissected brain areas. In addition, computer-assisted image analysis has been performed in order to obtain quantification of immunohistochemical data. The results show that cholinergic and substance P containing neurons have a different localization in the medial habenula and project to essentially different areas of the interpeduncular nucleus. Cholinergic neurons are crowded in the ventral two-thirds of the medial habenula while substance P containing cells are exclusively localized in the dorsal part of the nucleus. In most parts of the interpeduncular nucleus, choline acetyltransferase and substance P containing fibres and terminals are similarly segregated and no overlapping is apparent except for the rostralmost and the caudalmost ends of the nucleus. Cholinergic activity is largely concentrated in the central core of the nucleus, while substance P is preferentially localized in the peripheral subnuclei of the interpeduncular nucleus. In addition, both substance P and choline acetyltransferase levels show peculiar regional variations along the rostrocaudal axis of the interpeduncular nucleus. The results of experimental lesions demonstrate that the substance P projection carried by each fasciculus retroflexus is prevailingly ipsilateral in the rostral part of the interpeduncular nucleus and becomes progressively bilateral as far as more caudal regions of the nucleus are reached. By contrast, the cholinergic projections carried by each fasciculus retroflexus intermingle more rapidly and only show a slight ipsilateral dominance in the interpeduncular nucleus. The results of the study are discussed with reference to previous anatomical and neurochemical data which, in several instances, had given rise to discrepant interpretations.
The localization of substance P-like immunoreactive nervous structures in the human post-mortem hippocampal formation and parahippocampal gyrus was studied by the indirect immunofluorescence technique of Coons and Kaplan (1950), J. exp. Med. 91, 1-9. Specimens were obtained from brains of both newborn and adult subjects. Substance P-positive perikarya were easily detectable in these regions, being particularly abundant in the stratum oriens of the hippocampus and in the hilus of the fascia dentata. The nerve fibres and terminals were also widely and unevenly distributed. Comparison of the newborn and adult tissue revealed differences in the distribution of substance P-like immunoreactivity in ontogenetic stages. Our results, together with data available in the literature, further suggest that substance P is differently distributed in the various cortical areas of the human brain, and that the distribution of substance P may vary among species.
The publications of 50 of the first American neurosurgeons were studied, and a citation analysis was done for the period 1965 through 1979. Because creative authors and their papers influence the scholarship and technical course of a discipline such as neurosurgery, the number of citations to an author or publication is a good measure of creativity (the production of original ideas that are lasting and eminent). The 10 authors who had the largest number of citations of papers, chapters, and books were Penfield (3228), Cushing (2588), Dandy (1732), Bailey (1061), White (968), Matson (932), Ingraham (651), Scoville (604), Davidoff (540), and Elsberg (414). The most cited book was Epilepsy and the Functional Anatomy of the Human Brain, by Penfield and Jasper, and the most cited paper was Scoville and Milner's &quot;Loss of recent memory after bilateral hippocampal lesions.&quot; Authors who wrote more papers were found to have a greater total number of citations for these papers, but did not average more citations per paper than less productive colleagues. Neurosurgeons with research experience were more productive but not more creative than were more clinically oriented authors. The 5-year creative peak of 7 of the 10 most creative neurosurgeons occurred after the age of 50. The subjects on which the 50 neurosurgeons wrote the most papers were central nervous system tumors, trauma, and the basic neurosciences; these subjects also were cited most frequently. The proximity of the date of publication to the period of citation analysis resulted in a moderately better chance of a paper being cited, but more recent papers did not average more total citations.


Neurotensin-like immunoreactivity (NT-LI) was demonstrated in projection neurons of the striatum and nucleus accumbens in the cat by combining immunohistochemistry and the fluorescent retrograde neuronal labeling method. In colchicine-treated cats, many neurons with NT-LI were found in the caudate nucleus, nucleus accumbens, and putamen. Most of these neurons were medium-sized neurons with spiny dendrites. NT-LI of neuronal elements in the caudate nucleus and nucleus accumbens formed dense aggregates with irregular figures, which appeared to correspond to the striosomes of Graybiel et al. (Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 75:5723-5726, '78; Exp. Brain Res. 34:189-195, '79; Neuroscience 6:377-397, '81). Fibers with NT-LI were distributed massively to the globus pallidus and ventral midbrain regions, but not to the entopeduncular nucleus. In the ventral midbrain regions, many fine varicose fibers with NT-LI were distributed to the pars compacta and pars lateralis of the substantia nigra, ventral tegmental area, and retrorubral area. In the pars reticulata of the substantia nigra, however, fibers with NT-LI were rather sparse. Examination of consecutive sections immunostained for NT, enkephalin (Enk), GABA, and substance P (SP) revealed that 50% of neurons with NT-LI in the caudate nucleus and nucleus accumbens exhibited Enk-LI, 15% showed GABA-LI, and 5% manifested both Enk-LI and GABA-LI; no NT-positive neurons in the striatum and nucleus accumbens showed SP-LI. No morphological differences were found between NT-positive neurons with Enk-LI and/or GABA-LI and those without Enk-LI and GABA-LI. Most neurons with NT-LI in the striatum and nucleus accumbens were retrogradely labeled with True Blue injected into the globus pallidus, pars compacta and pars lateralis of the substantia nigra, and ventral tegmental area. After hemitransection severing neuronal connections between the ventral midbrain regions and the forebrain structures, fibers with NT-LI and those with Enk-LI in the ventral midbrain regions were markedly reduced in number.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The morphology of ganglion cell dendritic trees varies across the cat retina. Evidence is presented that the variation in two attributes of ganglion cell dendritic structure can be accounted for by specific aspects of the topography of the adult and developing retina. The first attribute considered was the displacement of the center of the dendritic field from the cell body in the plane of the retina. The results of this study provide evidence that most ganglion cell dendritic fields are displaced away from neighboring cells, i.e., down the retinal ganglion cell density gradient. Because of the systematic dendritic displacement locally, the centers of the dendritic fields are arranged in a more precise mosaic than are their cell bodies. The second attribute considered was the elongation and orientation of the dendritic fields. From approximately embryonic day 50 to postnatal day 10 the cat retina undergoes a process of maturation (reviewed by Rapaport and Stone: Neuroscience 11:289-301, '84) that begins at the area centralis and spreads over the retina in a horizontally elongated wave. We found that the elongation and orientation of retinal ganglion cell dendritic fields is significantly correlated with the shape of the wave of maturation. The orientation of a dendritic field is not predicted by the direction of its displacement nor is it directly related to the distribution of neighboring retinal ganglion cells. These results indicate that the displacement of a ganglion cell's dendritic field from its cell body results from mechanisms different from those responsible for the orientation of the dendritic field. Factors that may be responsible for these two attributes of ganglion cell dendritic morphology are discussed.





Large input currents can be generated by an asymmetry in the chloride activity seen by Ag-AgCl electrodes used at the input of intracellular amplifiers because offset compensation no longer takes place at the input of the amplifier but rather later in the circuit in many modern amplifiers. This situation occurs when chloride-free solution, such as potassium acetate, potassium citrate or various intracellular dyes are used as pipette and electrode holder filling solutions. Omitting the agar bridge at the reference electrode, or using a platinum electrode will have similar results. Values of cellular membrane potentials can be significantly contaminated under such conditions, particularly where the amplifier input resistance did not exceed 10(10) omega and where small cells were studied. Unexpected iontophoresis of Cl- can occur when the asymmetry is such as to make the recording pipette negative. These offsets can be avoided in all situations by the use of salt bridges which insure that the two Ag/AgCl junctions are in contact with Cl- of the same activity.
Due to the large coefficient of volume expansion of water with temperature, the use of closed micropipette holders results in significant pipette motion and pressure ejection of electrolytes or marker dyes as the temperature of the pipette goes up upon insertion in the CNS or spinal cord of warm blooded preparations.
The mechanical elements and the electronic control system from a stepper motor-driven microelectrode positioner is described. The unit embodies a high-precision small step angle hybrid motor. The compact, rugged and totally concentric design of the mechanic, by a spindle mechanism achieves the necessary precision by translating the stepwise rotations of the motor into steps of linear movement. The system takes advantage of commercially available low friction parts such as ball bearings, ball bushings and axles with hardened surfaces. The related electronic control unit is designed around the most recent integrated circuitry which is both sophisticated and economical. Though the described system is designed to be built in an average departmental workshop it compares favorably with more expensive commercial units and in some aspects outperforms them.
This report describes 3 types of apparatus that were used to produce precise movements of a joint over a wide range of speeds and angles. The designs feature an ability for ultra slow rotation of the joint (fractions of a degree per min) with a minimum of extraneous cues. Two designs use servo-controlled DC motors configured as velocity servos and a third design uses a galvanometer motor configured as a position servo. Originally designed for use with humans in studies of proprioception with the ankle and two joints of the index finger (the metacarpophalangeal joint and proximal interphalangeal joint), the apparatuses should be useful in a variety of applications where precise control of velocity and position is needed.

The topographic distribution of cells containing monoamine oxidase, the enzyme which deaminates amines, was studied in the cat medulla oblongata. By means of enzyme histochemistry using a new coupled peroxidation method, monoamine oxidase activity was demonstrated in the somata, dendrites and fibers. Type A monoamine oxidase, inhibited by clorgyline but not deprenyl, were localized in the cells distributed in the ventrolateral and dorsomedial medulla where catecholaminergic neurons are present. Type B monoamine oxidase-positive cell bodies were identified in the regions containing serotonergic neurons. Furthermore, we found an intense activity of type A monoamine oxidase in many cells of the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus of the rostrocaudal extent, and more rostrally in the nucleus parvocellularis where few or no aminergic neurons have been described.
The crossed projection from the temporal crescent in the rat's retina was studied by producing a discrete retinal lesion in one eye and examining the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus and superior colliculus contralateral to the lesion for anterograde degeneration products. The position of this crossed degeneration was described in relation to the uncrossed retinal termination in the same structures by injecting the opposite eye with [3H]proline and processing the tissue for autoradiography. The location of the retinal lesion in relation to the temporal crescent was identified by injecting the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus ipsilateral to the lesioned eye with a fluorescent tracer, to retrogradely label the ipsilaterally projecting retinal ganglion cells in the lesioned eye. Retinal lesions that were histologically verified to be restricted to the temporal crescent produced crossed degeneration in the superior colliculus at its rostral border, in accord with this projection's published visual topography. These same lesions consistently yielded a very circumscribed and sparse amount of degeneration in the contralateral dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus at its dorsomedial border, abutting the optic tract dorsally and the lateroposterior nucleus medially. The degeneration bore no consistent relationship to the position of the uncrossed retinal terminal field, which is situated further ventrally in the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus; rather, this crossed temporal projection terminated in the outer shell of the nucleus along its medial border. This crossed temporal retinogeniculate projection, together with the crossed projection from nasal retina, forms a continuous map of the complete contralateral retina in the outer shell of the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus, likely to arise from a population of retinal ganglion cells possessing small soma sizes.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Experiments were conducted on isolated retinas of adult carp (Cyprinus carpio) to investigate correlations between photoresponses and morphological features of amacrine cells. The fluorescence dye Lucifer Yellow CH was iontophoretically injected into single cells which had been characterized electrophysiologically. Photoresponses were classified into two main types (transient ON-OFF and sustained), which were further subgrouped into &quot;fast&quot; and &quot;slow&quot; ON-OFF types and into ON-center and OFF-center types, respectively. In the spectral response curve, all the types dealt with showed a maximum response at 621 nm, indicating that main input signals derive from red-sensitive cones. The cells marked by intracellular injection of the dye showed a great variety in morphology. Cells were classified into 8 subtypes, based on soma shape (fusiform or pyriform), dendritic field area (narrow, less than 0.3 mm2; medium, 0.3-0.8 mm2; wide, greater than 0.8 mm2), and dendritic stratification in the inner plexiform layer (restricted to sublamina a or b, or distributed diffusely). In certain cases a given response type was correlated with a specific morphological type, while receptive field size was not strictly correlated with dendritic field areas. Long and fine peripheral &quot;axon-like&quot; processes were found to arise from the primary dendrites of most fusiform cells. Dye-coupling was found among cells which appear to belong to the same cell category.
A morphometric analysis of normal Wistar rat adrenal medulla following perfusion fixation and Araldite embedding, was correlated with catecholamine levels on fresh tissue, measured by high-performance liquid chromatography. The mean volume of whole adrenal is 13.2 mm3 and the mean medullary volume 1.3 mm3. Volume density estimates showed that the medulla is composed of 63% chromaffin tissue with an adrenaline to noradrenaline storing cell ratio of 4.4:1. The vasculature occupies 20%, neuronal tissue 5% and interstitial tissues 12% of the medulla. A comparison was made of cell volumes, cell numbers and volume and surface density estimates of cytoplasmic organelles in adrenaline and noradrenaline storing cells. The mean cell volume of adrenaline storing cells at 1300 micron3 is larger than that of noradrenaline storing cells at 980 micron3. A single adrenal medulla contains 4.4-5.7 X 10(5) adrenaline cells and 1.5-1.9 X 10(5) noradrenaline cells. Chromaffin granules account for approximately 30% of the volume of the cytoplasm; the numerical density of granules at different sites in the cell was calculated for adrenaline cells. The volume density of mitochondria (4%) and the surface density of mitochondrial membranes (the ratio of outer to inner membrane being approximately 1:2.3) were similar in both cell types. Rough endoplasmic reticulum was the only organelle to show a significant difference in volume and surface density between the two cell types. Adrenaline storing cells have stacks of rough endoplasmic reticulum which have two to three times the surface and volume densities of that found diffusely scattered throughout noradrenaline cells. The adrenaline content of an adrenaline storing cell is 0.14 X 10(-6) microM and that of a granule 3.0 X 10(-12) or 3.8 X 10(-12) mumoles depending on the method of calculation. The noradrenaline content of noradrenaline storing cells can only be calculated on the assumption that all noradrenaline is stored in this cell type though it is likely that some is contained within adrenaline cells. Based on this assumption the noradrenaline content is 0.17 X 10(-6) mumoles per cell and 5 X 10(-12) mumoles per granule. The present study provides baseline morphometric data on the rat adrenal medulla at tissue and cellular level correlated with amine levels in adrenaline and noradrenaline storing cells and granules.
Peculiarities of synaptic processes of facial motoneurons evoked by stimulation of brainstem structures were studied in acute experiments on anaesthetized and immobilized cats by intracellular recording technique. It was shown that stimulation of nucleus reticularis parvocellularis of the medulla oblongata as well as interstitial nucleus of Cajal, nucleus Darkschewitsch, periaqueductal gray and pretectal area evokes in facial motoneurons monosynaptic excitatory postsynaptic potentials accompanied by single action potentials. Somatic localization of synapses under study is supposed. Convergence of inputs is revealed. Functional role of the midbrain structures as intermediate relays transmitting descending signals to the facial nucleus is discussed.
Peculiarities of synaptic processes in facial motoneurons evoked by stimulation of various regions of the cerebral cortex and subcortical structures were studied in acute experiments on cats by intracellular recording technique. Stimulation of the motor cortex as well as gyrus proreus and pyramidal tract was shown to evoke polysynaptic excitatory and inhibitory postsynaptic potentials in facial motoneurons. Stimulation of the lateral hypothalamus produced exclusively excitatory polysynaptic effects. It was also found that stimulation of the head of nucleus caudatus and globus pallidus evokes a polysynaptic activation in facial motoneurons, while stimulation of nucleus amygdala centralis leads to mono- and polysynaptic excitation of these neurons. Convergence of the above effects on the same motoneurons is shown to exist. Possible pathways and mechanisms of descending influences on the activity of facial motoneurons is discussed.
The synaptic organization of the feline entopeduncular nucleus was studied electron microscopically. After horseradish peroxidase injections into the ventral anterior and ventral lateral nuclear complex of the thalamus, normal axon terminals synapsing with entopedunculothalamic projection neurons were classified into four types on the basis of the size and shape of synaptic vesicles in them, and types of the postsynaptic membrane differentiation. Type I and type II axon terminals were characterized by symmetrical synaptic contacts, and large ovoid or small ovoid synaptic vesicles, respectively. Type II axon terminals were further classified into two subtypes as to their sizes: one was small (IIa), the other large (IIb). Type III and type IV axon terminals were characterized by asymmetrical synaptic contacts, and large ovoid or small ovoid synaptic vesicles, respectively. To determine the origin of each type of terminal, electrolytic lesions of the caudate nucleus or the subthalamic nuclear region were combined with horseradish peroxidase injections into the thalamus or the subthalamic nuclear region. After electrolytic lesions of the caudate nucleus, degeneration was seen in type I axon terminals contacting entopedunculothalamic projection neurons. Following electrolysis or horseradish peroxidase injection into the subthalamic nuclear region, type IIa and type IV axon terminals showed degenerations or horseradish peroxidase labelling. Such terminals also synapsed with entopedunculothalamic projection neurons. It was demonstrated that these projection neurons relay the striatal or subthalamic inputs directly to the thalamus. After horseradish peroxidase injection into the thalamus, many labelled type II axon terminals were observed to synapse with entopedunculothalamic projection neurons. Type III axon terminals were left unchanged throughout these experiments. In addition, the entopeduncular neuron was observed to receive convergent inputs from both the caudate nucleus and probably the subthalamic nucleus. Axoaxonal synapses were also found to be involved in the synaptic triad. These results indicate that type I axon terminals originate from the caudate nucleus, part of type IIa and type IV axon terminals originate from the subthalamic nucleus or caudal to the subthalamic nuclear region, and part of type IIa and type IIb terminals come from intrinsic axon collaterals.
The electrical activity of 125 neurons within the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus was recorded in urethan-anaesthetized male rats. Spontaneous activity of the cells and their responses following electrical stimuli delivered to the ipsilateral lateral septum and dorsal hippocampus were recorded. The mean firing rate of all the cells recorded was 3.5 +/- 0.4 Hz and the majority were located within the dorsal and medial components of the paraventricular nucleus. Forty-six percent of the cells were inhibited following stimulation of the lateral septum (onset, 22.8 +/- 6.7 ms; offset, 195.1 +/- 28.5 ms). Inhibitory responses to dorsal hippocampus stimulation were recorded from 44% of all cells (onset, 28.1 +/- 4.7 ms; offset, 180.7 +/- 28.7 ms). Stimulation of both sites caused excitation of equal proportions (26%) of the cells tested (lateral septum onset, 47.7 +/- 4.5 ms; offset, 64.8 +/- 6.6 ms; dorsal hippocampus onset, 48.7 +/- 5.6 ms; offset, 72.3 +/- 8.8 ms). Of the sub-population of cells identified as projecting to the median eminence, inhibition was recorded from 50% following lateral septum stimulation and 43% following dorsal hippocampus stimulation, excitatory responses being recorded from only 9% of cells tested. The excitatory responses were only recorded from phasically firing, vasopressin-secreting cells identified as projecting to the median eminence, and also to the neurohypophysis. Following stimulation of either site, more phasic cells were excited whilst only few were inhibited. Continuously active cells, identified as projecting to the neurohypophysis, showed more mixed responses following stimulation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In 20 cats anaesthetized with pentobarbital the suprasylvian gyrus was stimulated by single stimuli or by trains of 50 s stimuli and the potentials from the cortical surface and the intracellular potentials from glial and nerve cells were recorded. Glial cells were identified according to conventional electrophysiological criteria: the absence of action potentials and postsynaptic potentials; slow depolarization in response to electrical stimulation. The slow negativity of direct response to a single stimulus is similar in shape and time course to the depolarization of the cortical glial cells and is unlike the hyperpolarization of the cortical neurons. Quantitative analysis showed that the basic part of the slow negativity is the glial component, whereas the neuronal component--inhibitory postsynaptic potential--plays a much lesser role. The negative shift of the potential on the cortical surface evoked by its high-frequency stimulation is similar in shape and time course to the depolarization shift of the membrane potential of the cortical glial cells (the mean value and standard error of time to peak for glial depolarization were 567.6 +/- 26.8 ms and 427 +/- 24 ms for negative shift of potential). (The results are based on recordings from 37 cells.) The negative shift decays much quicker; it is not similar in shape and time course to the hyperpolarization shift of the neuronal membrane potentials (the mean value and standard error of time to peak for inhibitory postsynaptic potential was 44.9 +/- 4.5 ms). According to the quantitative analysis, the negative shift of the potential reflects mainly the depolarization of the cortical glial cells. The contribution of the hyperpolarization of neurons to the surface-negative shift can be distinctly observed during the first 0.2-0.3 s of stimulation. It is supposed that accumulation of K+ ions in intercellular clefts results in depolarization of glial syncytium, which is reflected on the cortical surface as a slow negativity and a negative shift of the potential.
The anatomical distribution of the astrocytic glial reactions, following ibotenic acid-induced neuronal degeneration of the neostriatum in the rat, has been studied immunohistochemically using an antibody directed against the astrocytic marker, glial fibrillary acidic protein. The acute astroglial response to the excitotoxic lesion, determined 7 days post lesion, was compared with a sham-operated group and a chronic group that had received the excitotoxic lesion 6 months prior to histological evaluation. Total doses of 16-20 micrograms ibotenic acid injected unilaterally into the head of the neostriatum caused not only a marked neuronal cell loss but was also accompanied by a large increase in the number and size (about 5 times) of glial fibrillary acidic protein-stained astrocytes throughout the neostriatum by 7 days after lesion. Reactive astrocytes were also observed in the major neostriatal projection areas, the globus pallidus and the substantia nigra pars reticulata, at 7 days post lesion, although no neuronal cell loss could be detected in these regions using regular Cresyl Violet staining. Previous studies of lesions identical to the ones used here have shown that globus pallidus and substantia nigra are deafferented as a result of the neostriatal neuronal degeneration. The reactive astrocytes in the striatal projection areas had a 3-5 times larger size than control astrocytes from the same anatomical region. In animals that received a larger dose of ibotenic acid into the neostriatum (25 micrograms), neuronal cell loss was also observed in the neocortex and reactive glial fibrillary acidic-stained astrocytes were found in the entire neocortex of the injected hemisphere. In the chronic group, 6 months after the excitotoxic lesion, the astroglial response was clearly diminished or absent in the major neostriatal projection areas, but was still present within the lesioned neostriatum. The results suggest that focal neuronal destruction can result in widespread astrocytic glial reactions which follow the anatomical connectivity of the lesioned area. This may have implications for the understanding of the multifocal distribution of glial reactions seen in patients with striatal degeneration as a result of Huntington's disease.
The work of Aguayo and colleagues [Aguayo, David and Bray (1981) J. Exp. Biol. 95, 231-240] demonstrates that grafts of peripheral neural tissue are able to induce regenerative elongation of cut axons in the adult central nervous system. Elucidation of the mechanism of this response requires an understanding of the cellular interactions induced by these types of transplant. In previous studies [Zhou, Lawrence, Morris and Raisman (1986) Neuroscience 17, 815-827; Zhou, Lindsay, Lawrence and Raisman (1986) Neuroscience 17, 803-813] we have transplanted decapsulated adult superior cervical sympathetic ganglia or nodose ganglia into either the septal nuclei or the choroid fissure of adult syngeneic rat hosts. We found that host astrocytes invade the transplants along Schwann cell fascicles and around blood vessels. This raises the questions of what form the migrating astrocytes take, what routes they follow, and what is their fate. In the present study we have taken advantage of the fact that at longer survivals astrocytes accumulate as &quot;paravascular cuffs&quot;, and we show that they have several specialized ultrastructural features, such as plasmalemmal caveolae, desmosomes, hemidesmosomes and accumulations of extracellular material. The specific stimuli inducing (or enhancing) these astrocytic specializations and their significance in relation to the wider morphogenetic events induced by peripheral neural transplants remain to be elucidated. However, the observations are further evidence of the remarkable mobility and plasticity of central astrocytes in transplantation situations, and in particular emphasize the involvement of the cell surface and its relationship to extracellular matrix.
The distribution of choline-acetyltransferase-like immunoreactive structures in the rat hypothalamus and preoptic area was examined by using avidin-biotin immunocytochemistry. We found that the hypothalamus is richly innervated by the cholinergic neuron system. Sites containing cholinergic neurons of varying density were: medial and lateral preoptic areas, septohypothalamic nucleus, median preoptic area, lateral hypothalamus including the perifornical area, anterior hypothalamic nucleus, arcuate nucleus, dorsomedial hypothalamic nucleus, posterior hypothalamic nucleus, dorsal and ventral premammillary nuclei, neuropil mediodorsal to the anterior hypothalamic nucleus, neuropil ventral to the anterior hypothalamic nucleus and ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus, neuropil between lateral hypothalamus and ventromedial hypothalamus, and neuropil between dorsal premammillary nucleus and posterior hypothalamic nucleus. There were also many varicose and non-varicose fibers in the preoptic area and hypothalamus. Two kinds of varicose fibers, one with strong immunoreactivity and the other with weak immunoreactivity, were seen. Non-varicose fibers were also detected in the optic chiasma and habenulo-interpeduncular tract. These fibers were passing fibers.
The localization and neurosecretion of methionine-enkephalin was studied in sympathetic nerves of the bovine vas deferens. Immunostaining showed methionine-enkephalin-like immunoreactivity in a network of varicose nerve fibres in the smooth muscle layers of the vas deferens. When vas deferens homogenates were subjected to differential and sucrose density gradient centrifugation, methionine-enkephalin was found to parallel the distribution of noradrenaline in the more dense region of the gradient, where &quot;heavy&quot; or large dense-cored vesicles are present. Electron microscopic immunochemistry confirmed this finding and showed methionine-enkephalin-like immunoreactivity in large dense-cored vesicles. The release of methionine-enkephalin upon electrical stimulation was studied in superfusion experiments. The methionine-enkephalin secretion was shown to be Ca2+-dependent and was inhibited by adding the adrenergic neuron blocking drug guanethidine to the superfusion medium. We conclude that in the bovine vas deferens methionine-enkephalin is only present in large dense-cored vesicles of adrenergic neurons and that the peptide is released from these vesicles together with noradrenaline by a Ca2+-dependent mechanism.
The presence of cytochrome P-450 in rat brain was studied by immunohistochemistry, using antibodies to cytochrome P-450 purified from livers of phenobarbital- or 3-methylcholanthrene-treated rats. Immunoreactive nerves were observed only in brain sections incubated with immunoglobulin-G to 3-methylcholanthrene-induced cytochrome P-450. This immunoreactivity was abolished by preabsorption of the antibody with highly purified rat liver cytochrome P-450c, the major cytochrome P-450 isozyme induced by 3-methylcholanthrene, but was not affected by other cytochrome P-450 isozymes induced by phenobarbital, isosafrole or pregnenolone-16 alpha-carbonitrile. The most abundant concentration of nerve fibers with cytochrome P-450 immunoreactivity was observed in the globus pallidus. Immunoreactive fibers were also observed in the caudate putamen, amygdala, septum, ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus, medial forebrain bundle, ansa lenticularis, and ventromedial portion of the internal capsule and crus cerebri. Cell bodies with cytochrome P-450 immunoreactivity were observed in the caudate putamen and in the perifornical area of the hypothalamus. The cytochrome P-450 immunoreactive fibers in the globus pallidus and caudate putamen do not appear to emanate from cell bodies in the substantia nigra, since there was no reduction in the density of these fibers after unilateral stereotaxic electrolytic destruction of the substantia nigra (zona compacta and reticulata). Our data suggest that these striatal nerve processes are derived from cell bodies within the caudate putamen itself. The present results indicate that rat brain contains a form of cytochrome P-450 with antigenic relatedness to the hepatic 3-methylcholanthrene-inducible cytochrome P-450c.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

gamma-Aminobutyric acid (GABA)-containing elements have been studied by light and electron microscopy in the rat spinal cord, using immunocytochemistry with anti-GABA antibodies. Light microscopy showed immunoreactive somata localized principally in laminae I-III, and occasionally in the deeper laminae of the dorsal horn and in the ventral horn. Small somata were also observed around the central canal. Punctate GABA-immunoreactive profiles were particularly concentrated in laminae I-III, and moderately abundant in the deeper laminae and in the ventral horn where they were observed surrounding the unlabelled motoneurons. At the ultrastructural level, the punctate profiles corresponded to GABA-containing axonal varicosities or small dendrites. GABA-immunoreactive varicosities were presynaptic to labelled or unlabelled dendrites and cell bodies. Some unlabelled terminals presynaptic to unlabelled dendrites received symmetrical synaptic contacts from GABA-immunoreactive terminals. These results confirm data obtained with L-glutamate decarboxylase immunocytochemistry, and support the role of GABA in pre- and postsynaptic inhibition in the spinal cord, respectively via axoaxonal and axosomatic or axodendritic synapses.
Focal electrodes were used to record the spontaneous miniature potentials generated on delimited patches of innervated membrane in the Torpedo electric organ. The main population of miniature potentials followed a bell-shaped amplitude distribution. In addition, we observed a second class of spontaneous events that were smaller and whose amplitude distribution was skewed. These subminiatures formed an homogenous population together with the regular miniatures with respect to their time course versus amplitude relationship. They were thus probably generated at the same sites. The proportion of potentials that were subminiature was less than 10% in resting, freshly excised tissue, but it increased markedly: (i) when the tissue was kept for 24-28 h in vitro after excision; (ii) in the period following a brief heat challenger or (iii) stimulation to exhaustion; and (iv) in the presence of dinitrophenol or dinitrofluorobenzene. In all these conditions, we measured the acetylcholine, adenosine 5'-triphosphate and creatine phosphate content of the tissue and found a correlation between the relative number of subminiature potentials and the lack of energy rich molecules. It is concluded that subminiature potentials are present in the electric organ as in neuromuscular junctions. They are probably produced at the same sites as the regular miniature potentials and their relative occurrence seems to increase greatly when the nerve terminals are in a state of energy deficiency.
The avian ciliary ganglion contains two populations of parasympathetic cells, termed the ciliary and choroid neurons. We have estimated the quantal contents of nicotinic excitatory postsynaptic potentials in both populations of neurons by several methods. The singly innervated ciliary neurons have quantal contents of 15-30. In contrast, the multiply innervated choroid cells have quantal contents of 4-7. Quantal conductance was also determined, using a parallel conductance model which takes into account the capacitance of the cell membrane. This analysis indicates that in both populations of neurons one quantum activates approximately 100 postsynaptic receptors. It is concluded that in autonomic ganglia singly innervated cells demonstrate a larger quantal content, consistent with a higher safety factor for neurotransmission, while quantal content in multiply innervated cells is generally much lower, allowing for considerable summation of presynaptic inputs. Further, in autonomic neurons many fewer postsynaptic receptors are activated by a single quantum than is the case at the neuromuscular junction.
The effects of a recently identified blocker of neuronal nicotinic transmission, toxin F, were studied in cultured sympathetic neurons. Single principal neurons, dissociated from superior cervical ganglia of newborn rats, were grown on cardiac myocytes in microculture. The toxin blocked nicotinic synaptic potentials in these cultures but had no effect on muscarinic interactions. When toxin F was applied by addition to the perfusion medium, the concentration required for blocking most of the nicotinic potential was 40 nM, and the recovery from blockade was slow (t1/2 = 95 +/- 64 min). When the toxin was briefly applied by pressure ejection from a pipette, the concentration in the pipette necessary for blockade was 21 microM, and 30-60% of the response recovered within a few minutes while the remainder recovered slowly (t1/2 of the remainder = 105 +/- 82 min). One possible explanation for the difference in recovery time is that toxin F binds initially with low affinity to the nicotinic receptor but with time the toxin receptor complex converts to a high affinity state. The presence of dihydro-beta-erythroidine during perfusion of toxin F prevented the long-lasting blockade by the toxin, suggesting that toxin F and dihydro-beta-erythroidine act through a common binding site. The specificity, potency, and slow reversibility of the effects of toxin F make it useful as a probe for studying neuronal nicotinic receptors of cultured sympathetic neurons.
The regional distribution of high affinity binding sites for kainic acid has been determined in rat hippocampi by quantitative autoradiography. Selective lesions were made in order to determine the exact localization of these sites in the mossy fiber system, and to evaluate whether the sprouting and synaptic reorganization of the mossy fibers are associated with alterations in the distribution of these binding sites. The results show that kainate binding sites in the stratum lucidum are more vulnerable to destruction of the granules and their mossy fibers by intrahippocampal colchicine injections than to destruction of the CA3/CA4 pyramidal cells by injection of kainate into the amygdala. This suggests that a substantial proportion of the kainate binding sites is associated with the mossy fiber terminals (i.e. the presynaptic elements). Furthermore, in keeping with an earlier study, destruction of the pyramidal neurons of CA3 by intracerebral kainate produced a dark Timm positive band in the supragranular zone which is due to the sprouting of mossy fibers. This was associated with an increase in the density of kainate binding sites, which further stresses the parallelism between the distribution of these sites and mossy fiber terminals.
Dopamine D2 receptors, labeled with [3H]spiroperidol or [3H]sulpiride, show a lateral-to-medial gradient in the caudate-putamen, with a more than two-fold greater density laterally than medially. It has been thought that D2 receptors are located on at least two neuronal elements of the caudate-putamen, neurons intrinsic to this structure and axons whose cell bodies reside in the cortex. As a first step in establishing what neuronal elements underlie this heterogeneous organization of D2 receptors, we took advantage of quantitative autoradiography to examine the association of these receptors with those elements. The present findings show that the D2 sites are almost exclusively located on neurons whose somata reside in the caudate-putamen and are not located on terminals of corticostriatal axons. A detailed comparison of the distribution of histochemically identified acetylcholinesterase neurons with that of D2 receptors in serially adjoining sections suggests a common organizational pattern. The density of [3H]spiroperidol sites in rat caudate-putamen was determined after unilateral injection of the neurotoxin quinolinic acid into this structure or after ablation of neocortical regions. Quantification of the tissue damage was achieved by acetylcholinesterase histochemistry (following diisopropylfluorophosphate treatment), as well as by thionin and luxol fast staining of sections adjacent to those used for [3H]spiroperidol autoradiography. In identically treated animals, biochemical determination of the extent of tissue damage was made utilizing assays for high-affinity [3H]choline and [3H]glutamate uptake in the caudate-putamen. In quinolinic acid-injected rats, the density of D2 sites was decreased by 90-95% at the site of complete loss of large acetylcholinesterase-positive neurons. Other animals, given ablations of specific neocortical fields (medial prefrontal, motor, somatosensory) or of the entire parietal-frontal cortex of one hemisphere, showed no loss of caudate-putamen D2 sites unless the cortical ablation caused accompanying damage of the caudate-putamen. In the caudate-putamen of all animals there was a close correspondence between the D2 sites and the striatal neurons (and processes) that show strong acetylcholinesterase reactivity. We suggest that the caudate-putamen topography of D2 sites is based largely on the internal organization of this structure and may preferentially involve acetylcholine-containing intrinsic neurons.
Intracellular recordings were obtained from rat neostriatal slices. Bath-applied dopamine (1-10 microM) produced a reversible inhibition of the action potentials evoked by direct stimulation and a decrease in the amplitude of the intrastriatally evoked depolarizing postsynaptic potentials. No change in membrane potential was detected during the application of 1-10 microM dopamine. Dopamine application also produced a decrease in anomalous rectification in the depolarizing direction. This subthreshold inward rectification was abolished by tetrodotoxin, but not by calcium-free and cadmium (0.1-1 mM)-containing solutions. The dopamine-induced decrease in excitatory postsynaptic potential amplitude was evident at resting membrane potential or at more positive levels, but was absent at hyperpolarized values of the membrane potential. Addition of bicuculline (50-500 microM) to the medium did not affect the inhibitory action of dopamine. The inhibitory action of dopamine also persisted in calcium-free and cadmium-containing solutions. The adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate analogue, 8-bromo-adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (0.1-1 mM), mimicked the effects produced by D1 receptor activation. Bath application of 2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-7,8-dihydroxy-1-phenyl-1H-3-benzazepine (SKF 38393) (1-10 microM), a selective D1 dopaminergic agonist, mimicked the effects of micromolar concentrations of dopamine. The D2 dopaminergic agonists, 4,4a,5,6,7,8,8a,9-octahydro-5-n-propyl-2H-pyrazolo-3,4-g-quinoline (LY 171555) and bromocriptine (both at 10 nM-10 microM), had no effects on neostriatal cells. The inhibition induced by micromolar doses of dopamine or SKF 38393 was antagonized by bath applications of R-(+)-8-chloro-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-3-methyl-5-phenyl-1H-3-benzazepin++ +-7-ol (SCH 23390; 0.1-10 microM), a D1-selective antagonist, but not by sulpiride (10 nM-10 microM), a D2 antagonist. We conclude that the inhibitory effect of dopamine on rat striatal neurons is postsynaptically mediated by the activation of D1 dopaminergic receptors via the reduction of a voltage-dependent tetrodotoxin-sensitive inward conductance.
Postnatal genesis of small, intensely fluorescent cells was studied in the rat superior cervical ganglion by combining immunocytochemistry of tyrosine hydroxylase with tritiated thymidine autoradiography. After injection of tritiated thymidine during the first postnatal week, silver grains were observed over the nuclei of many small cells with intense staining for tyrosine hydroxylase, suggesting that SIF cells are dividing postnatally. Cell counts in ganglia of rats sacrificed 2 h after tritiated thymidine showed that the rate of SIF cell proliferation was highest during the first postnatal week with approximately 20% of SIF cells dividing and that the rate declined thereafter. Counts of labeled SIF cells at 30 days in rats injected with tritiated thymidine on days 0, 2, 4, 6, 8, 10 or 14 revealed a peak of SIF cell birthdays on day 8. In these long-survival experiments, many labeled SIF cells were present in adult superior cervical ganglions. In contrast, only one labeled principal neuron was observed in a total of 450 sections. Glucocorticoid treatment of the rats during the first postnatal week paradoxically increased the number of SIF cells, but inhibited the rate of SIF cell proliferation. Dividing SIF cells immunoreactive for both tyrosine hydroxylase and phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase were observed in glucocorticoid-treated rats. These observations suggest that many SIF cells are dividing during the first postnatal week. After cessation of division, these cells either remain SIF cells or die, but do not differentiate into principal neurons. Since glucocorticoids do not stimulate SIF cell proliferation, they must increase the number of SIF cells by biasing the differentiation of precursor cells in the superior cervical ganglion and/or enhancing SIF cell survival.
Lophotoxin is a diterpene lactone isolated from gorgonian corals. The toxin has previously been shown to bind with high affinity to an acetylcholine recognition site located on skeletal muscle nicotinic receptors, producing an essentially irreversible blockade of neuromuscular transmission. Lophotoxin has also been shown to block nicotinic transmission in autonomic ganglia of the frog and in ileal strips of guinea pig and rabbit. The effects of lophotoxin have now been examined on neuronal nicotinic receptors in autonomic ganglia of the chick and rat. Low concentrations of lophotoxin (1 microM) produce a blockade of neuronal nicotinic transmission which is partially reversed by 3-5 h of washing out the toxin. The blockade produced by higher concentrations of lophotoxin (up to 32 microM) is not reversed during a similar washout period. Prior exposure to d-tubocurarine, a competitive nicotinic antagonist, can partially protect ganglia against exposure to lophotoxin. In contrast the local anesthetic QX-314, a noncompetitive nicotinic antagonist, does not protect ganglia against lophotoxin exposure. Lophotoxin binds to a site in ganglia identified by [125I]kappa-bungarotoxin which appears to be on the neuronal nicotinic receptor. Intracellular recordings reveal that lophotoxin has no effect on either muscarinic responses or on responses to gamma-aminobutyrate in autonomic ganglia. Passive and active membrane properties of the neurons are unaffected by lophotoxin except for the blockade of nicotinic responses. It is concluded that lophotoxin is a selective, high-affinity antagonist at the neuronal nicotinic receptor. The long-term nature of the blockade with lophotoxin suggests that the toxin will be of considerable value as a probe for characterizing the ganglionic nicotinic receptor.
Neuropeptide Y and somatostatin immunoreactive neurons and processes were examined in human striatum using both immunofluorescence and avidin biotin immunoperoxidase methods. Reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase activity was histochemically determined by the reduction of nitro blue tetrazolium. Immunofluorescence using a monoclonal anti-somatostatin antibody and a polyclonal anti-neuropeptide Y antibody, followed by diaphorase histochemistry, showed that these three neurochemical markers are co-localized in a single population of medium-sized aspiny intrinsic neurons. Cells were evenly distributed in clusters throughout the striatum, but fiber density was higher in the nucleus accumbens and ventromedial regions of the caudate and putamen. Double-stained reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase-acetylcholinesterase sections demonstrated that these neurons are located in zones of high acetylcholinesterase activity, often at the interface of these zones with regions of low enzyme activity. These biochemically distinctive neurons are uniquely situated to modulate activity between striatal compartments. Our findings provide new information about the modular organization of the striatum and extend these observations in human brain.
We addressed in this study, with immunocytochemical methods, the following questions: are immunoreactive enkephalins in the rat neurohypophysis stored in nerves distinct from neurosecretory nerves; where is [Met]enkephalin immunoreaction localized; does immunoreactive [Leu]enkephalin coexist with pro-enkephalin or with pro-dynorphin fragments; and are the interpretations of localization studies influenced by the choice of pre-embedding or post-embedding immunocytochemical techniques? We compared immunoreactions due to antibodies which had been used by others in previous studies, examined both lyophilized and conventionally fixed specimens, and applied pre- and post-embedding protocols. Both pre- and post-embedding stainings confirmed co-storage of immunoreactive dynorphin(1-8)-like materials with vasopressin. Immunoreactive [Met]enkephalin-like material always coexisted with oxytocin. Most of the immunoreactive [Leu]enkephalin-like material appeared to occur in oxytocin nerves; only in larger vasopressin varicosities was there some dot-like [Leu]enkephalin immunoreaction. This indicates that neural lobe [Leu]enkephalin predominantly is cleaved from a precursor which also contains [Met]enkephalin. When pre-embedding methods were modified in order to block diffusion and to enhance penetration of antibodies, enkephalin immunoreactivity was always found in typical neurosecretory varicosities with large granules. Structures previously interpreted as enkephalinergic nerve terminals contacting pituicytes most likely are neurosecretory varicosities.
The catecholamine and serotonin innervation of the sheep olfactory bulb was studied using immunocytochemistry. Specific antisera raised against tyrosine hydroxylase, dopamine beta-hydroxylase, phenylethanolamine N-methyl transferase and serotonin were used. Tyrosine hydroxylase-positive cell bodies were present in all cell layers except in the anterior olfactory nucleus, the greatest number being found in the glomerular layer. Neither dopamine beta-hydroxylase-positive nor serotonin-positive cell bodies were observed. Dopamine beta-hydroxylase-positive fibers were widely distributed in the granule cell layer but less widely in other layers. The glomerular layer contained the greatest distribution of serotonergic positive fibers, but such fibers were also visualized in other cell layers. No phenylethanolamine N-methyl transferase-positive structures were found in this investigation.
The afferent connections of the nuclei reticularis pontis oralis and caudalis were studied experimentally in the rat by the aid of either free horseradish peroxidase or horseradish peroxidase conjugated with wheat germ agglutinin used as retrograde tracers. The results suggest that the nucleus reticularis pontis oralis receives its main input from the zona incerta and field H1 of Forel, the superior colliculus, the central gray substance, and the mesencephalic and magnocellular pontomedullary districts of the reticular formation. Many other structures seem to represent modest additional sources of projections to the nucleus reticularis pontis oralis; these structures include numerous cortical territories, the nucleus basalis, the central amygdaloid nucleus, hypothalamic districts, the anterior pretectal nucleus, the substantia nigra, the cuneiform, the accessory oculomotor and the deep cerebellar nuclei, trigeminal, parabrachial and vestibular sensory cell groups, the nuclei raphe dorsalis and magnus, the locus coeruleus, the dorsolateral tegmental nucleus, and the spinal cord. While the afferentation of the rostral portion of the nucleus reticularis pontis caudalis appears to conform to the general pattern outlined above, some deviations from that pattern emerge when the innervation of the caudal district of the nucleus reticularis pontis caudalis is considered; the most striking of these differences is the fact that both spinal and cerebellar inputs seem to distribute much more heavily to the referred caudal district than to the remaining magnocellular pontine reticular formation. The present results may contribute to the elucidation of the anatomical substrate of the functionally demonstrated involvement of the nuclei reticularis pontis oralis and caudalis in several domains that include the regulation of the sleep-waking cycle and cortical arousal, somatic motor mechanisms and nociceptive behavior.
Slow inward Ca-currents were recorded from CA3 pyramidal cells in rat hippocampus slice cultures when these cells were voltage-clamped at -40 mV and depolarizing commands applied. Ca-currents were increased in amplitude by the dihydropyridine Ca-agonist BAY K8644 (0.1-1 microM) and reduced by the Ca-antagonists nifedipine and PY 108-068 (0.1-1 microM). Ca-current inhibition by the latter could be temporarily relieved by membrane hyperpolarization. In unclamped cells, dihydropyridines did not alter membrane potential, Ca-spike amplitude, excitatory or inhibitory synaptic current amplitude, or spontaneous synaptic activity. Their principal effects were to alter the threshold for Ca/Ba spike generation and for pitrazepin-induced burst-depolarization. BAY K8644 also induced an after-spike following the normal Na spike, which was reduced by PY 108-068. It is concluded that the slow inward Ca-current in hippocampal neurones is sensitive to dihydropyridine drugs and that the absence of functional effects of antagonists is due to other causes such as the voltage-dependence of dihydropyridine block and the presence of an additional transient Ca-current which may be less sensitive to block.
Bidirectional axonal transport of glycoconjugates was studied in the sensory axons of rat sciatic nerve following injection of radiolabelled precursors into L4 and L5 dorsal root ganglia. After varying time intervals, gangliosides and neutral glycosphingolipids were isolated from anterograde and retrograde accumulation segments and radioactivity determined. Radiolabelled glycoproteins were measured in delipidated residues. These glycoconjugates were shown to undergo both anterograde and retrograde transport, accumulation occurring in roughly parallel manner for the three classes. The velocity of anterograde transport was collectively estimated at approximately 360 mm/day. Neutral glycosphingolipids, previously unknown to be axonally transported, were present in sensory axons and transported in roughly equivalent amounts as gangliosides--as judged by levels of transported radioactivity. TLC-radioautography revealed a number of molecular species in the general region of tetra- and larger glycosylceramides. Fractionation of gangliosides according to sialic acid content demonstrated the presence of mono-, di- and polysialo species at the anterograde site.


Calcium is a major second messenger in neurons and modulates many neuronal functions, including protein phosphorylation, phospholipid metabolism, cytoskeletal activity, and neurotransmitter release. These important events, which regulate neuronal activity, are directly dependent on the influx of extracellular calcium through voltage-sensitive calcium channels (VSCCs) in the neuronal membrane. Modulation of VSCC function represents an important strategy for regulating neuronal excitability. Although substantial evidence supports the ability of dihydropyridines to block VSCCs and contractility in cardiovascular tissue, their ability to block the majority of neuronal VSCCs remains controversial. Benzodiazepines, and other anticonvulsants, block depolarization-dependent 45Ca uptake through VSCCs in brain synaptosome preparations. In addition, benzodiazepines reduce voltage-gated calcium conductance as determined by voltage clamp studies of identified invertebrate neurons. Inhibition of VSCC activity may be an important mechanism by which these compounds produce their anticonvulsant and sedative effects. Intrasomal injection of calcium-calmodulin-dependent protein kinase modulates calcium conductance in invertebrate neurons, suggesting that protein phosphorylation may be an endogenous regulatory mechanism of VSCC activity. Developing novel pharmacological approaches to regulating VSCCs and understanding the endogenous regulatory mechanisms may lead to new therapeutic approaches to the treatment of neurological diseases.


A valinomycin-based membrane phase for microelectrodes with relatively low electrical membrane resistances is described. Microelectrodes with tip diameters of about 1 micron exhibit resistances of about 10(10) omega. Extremely high K+ selectivities are obtained, e.g. a rejection of Na+ by a factor of 5000 and of acetylcholine by a factor of 3400. At a constant background of 140 and 500 mM Na+, the detection limit of the K+ sensor is at 1.6 X 10(-5) and at 2.5 X 10(-5) M K+, respectively.
Orally administered metoclopramide (REGLAN) at doses of 10 or 20 mg, 75 min prior to either stressful linear acceleration (parabolic flight) or cross-coupled accelerative semicircular canal stimulation in a rotating chair was evaluated for its ability to prevent emesis or nausea II, respectively. Although metoclopramide is an effective antiemetic agent that enhances gastric emptying and prevents cancer chemotherapy-induced emesis, we were unable to demonstrate any significant (p less than 0.05) effects of this drug on motion sickness.
The remedicalization of psychiatry does not mean the return to a reductionistic biomedical model of psychiatry or the renunciation of psychotherapy and psychodynamics. It does mean the refocusing of scientific advances in neurobiology and neuroscience as they affect psychiatric diagnosis and treatment, increased psychiatrist involvement in the treatment of the physically ill and in organized medicine, and revitalization of psychiatrists' clinical skills and knowledge through medical education. Within the medical context, the author addresses current problems in psychiatry related to standards, sub-specialization, scientific research, and stigma. He sees the development of standards as an essential professional responsibility, considers subspecialization within psychiatry to be inevitable, calls for increased involvement by psychiatrists in scientific research, and warns against permitting the stigma associated with mental illness to further erode psychiatry's boundaries by allowing disorders with an organic etiology to be &quot;given away&quot; to other specialties.
A device is described that consists of two parallel, three-level differential amplitude discriminators suitable for the selection of electrophysiological data. The present device has been designed for simplicity of construction and operation. The unit allows for a visualisation of the selected levels in precise relationship to the input signal oscilloscope channel. The design eliminates the possibility that a lower level will exceed a higher level. The resulting ease with which complex multi-unit electrophysiological data may be discriminated for analysis using the three digital reference level outputs, makes this instrument suitable for a wide range of electrophysiological experiments.
The described interface to a digital computer measures interspike interval durations with a resolution of 10 microseconds. A built-in first-in first-out (FIFO) memory relieves the host computer from frequent I/O intensive tasks. The internal FIFO buffer can store up to 512 data words (wordlength is 16 bit) and works on the dual-port principle. This way the acquisition of a neuronal spike train is completely independent of the computer's simultaneously ongoing data access. A simple handshake protocol between the interface and the computer prevents any overhead communication. The buffer architecture of the instrument releases the host computer from high speed I/O handling schemes like real-time, clock-controlled, polling or interrupt procedures, that would request assembly language support. The body of two software, driver routines in the BASIC and the PASCAL language is presented. A complete and detailed schematic diagram of the circuitry is included.
Research-related activities in neuroscience nursing have increased. Clinical nursing research studies initiated and conducted by the practicing professional, however, have been limited. This paper explores potential areas for research, identifies cues to researchable problems, and describes the criteria by which researchable problems in neuroscience nursing are assessed.

A family support group is an adjunct to the successful care of the patient and family experiencing an acute neurological disorder. The research base and theoretical framework for a family support group are explored. Organizational issues in the initiation and maintenance of a family support group are described. Techniques for running a family support group session and common themes and problems that may arise within the group are discussed.
Nurses working in an intensive care setting must be knowledgeable about the diagnosis of brain death and its ramifications to care competently for the patient and family. The medical community has identified specific physical and diagnostic findings necessary for the determination of brain death. Brain death is an irreversible state, from which recovery has never been reported. The neuroscience nurse's responsibilities include meeting the patient's physical needs and identifying the family's needs and teaching them about brain death. Not fulfilling these responsibilities could result in dysfunctional grieving for the family and loss of a potential organ donor.
Postoperative tension pneumocephalus, a serious complication, requires early diagnosis and treatment. This article presents the anatomy, physiology, and pathophysiology of postoperative tension pneumocephalus. Nursing implications pertinent to identification, assessment, and collaboration in the diagnosis and treatment of tension pneumocephalus are discussed. An unusual method of treatment involving the use of bilateral subarachnoid screws is presented. Three cases are reviewed to illustrate the efficacy of this treatment modality, which, in some instances, may avoid a second intracranial operative procedure. The advantages of collaboration among neuroscience nurses and neurosurgeons on technical aspects of treatment are identified.
The halo brace has presented the neuroscience nurse with a new challenge in the care of victims of cervical spine trauma. In a review of 147 patients admitted to the Barrow Neurological Institute (BNI) with cervical fractures and/or instability during an 18-month period, the halo brace was an integral part of the treatment regimen in 71% of the cases. A vigorous nursing/respiratory care treatment protocol has been generated for the halo brace patient, focusing primarily on individuals who are quadriplegic, ventilator dependent, or elderly. This protocol and appropriate nursing interventions will be presented. The halo brace treatment plan has been effective in promoting early patient mobilization and reducing sensory deprivation and common pulmonary, vascular, gastrointestinal, and skin complications, thus shortening the acute hospital stay and allowing earlier admission to the rehabilitation setting.

Oxytocin-binding sites were detected by autoradiography on rat brain sections incubated in the presence of the [3H]oxytocin. These sites were characterized pharmacologically using quantitative autoradiography. High pressure liquid chromatography controls of the incubation media indicated that labelling was due to the intact [3H]oxytocin molecule. Pharmacological analysis of different locations (central amygdaloid nucleus, ventral subiculum and ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus) showed that the sites detected had a high affinity for oxytocin and also for arginine-vasopressin. In contrast, some areas known to bind vasopressin intensely, such as suprachiasmatic and lateral septum nuclei, had little or no affinity for oxytocin. Autoradiographs revealed [3H]oxytocin-binding sites in already known brain areas (olfactory centres, ventral subiculum, central amygdaloid nucleus, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis) albeit with more extensive labelling of some of these formations, in particular, the amygdaloid complex. In addition, specific [3H]oxytocin-binding sites were found in areas not yet reported to bind oxytocin, such as the paraventricular thalamic and caudate nuclei. In the hypothalamus, specific binding sites were not detected in the supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei: the only structure labelled was the ventrolateral part of the ventromedial nucleus. Discrepancies between the concentrations of [3H]oxytocin-binding sites, the known distribution of oxytocin-containing endings and electrophysiological data indicate that autoradiography, under our conditions, apparently only reveals some of the oxytocin receptors in the brain. Thus, in the hypothalamus, no relationship can be established between the known effect of oxytocin on oxytocinergic magnocellular neurons and detection of specific [3H]oxytocin-binding sites. Autoradiography may reveal mainly oxytocin-binding sites in areas receiving diverse &quot;parasynaptic&quot; information, where oxytocin might play a modulatory role rather than exerting rapid, short-term effects of the neurotransmitter type.
Low, repeated doses of X-rays from a Co60 source were used to impair the development of the granule cells and their dendritic terminals in the olfactory bulb, and the resulting effect was studied under light and electron microscopes at 9 days of age. Irradiation of rats from embryonic day 18 (in utero) to postnatal day 5 resulted, among others, in maldevelopment of the (internal) granule cell and external plexiform layers. This was accompanied by a decrease in the number and the density of the granule cells, and the remaining granule cells contained less ribosomes, regardless of their position within the layer. This implies that both supposed subtypes of granule cells were effected. In the external plexiform layer, a reduced number of mature dendrodendritic synapses and signs of harmed granule gemmules were observed. The results suggest that intrauterinal plus postnatal irradiation with low, repeated doses of X-rays may be an effective tool impairing the development of prenatally forming neurons.
The midbrain contains circuits that modulate locomotion. To delineate some of the involved regions, low-level stimulation (25 microA, 10 s train of 0.5 ms pulses at 50 Hz) was applied to the midbrain during locomotor stepping. Stepping was elicited in the anesthetized (pentobarbital, 40 mg/kg) rat by stimulating the hypothalamus with 0.5 ms pulses at 40 Hz at various currents. The rat was held in a stereotaxic apparatus such that locomotor stepping movements turned a wheel. Facilitation of locomotion was produced by stimulation in the anterior ventromedial midbrain and in the posterodorsal midbrain. When presented alone, such stimulation produced locomotion. Inhibition of locomotion was produced by stimulation of the superior colliculus (ventral layers) and the ventromedial midbrain. Additional inhibitory sites were found in the central gray and the lateral tegmentum. Inhibitory collicular stimulation, when presented alone, was characterized by the absence of any hindlimb response. Inhibitory ventromedial stimulation, when presented alone, frequently produced poststimulation locomotion and when presented with hypothalamic stimulation was characterized by postinhibitory increases in locomotion. These results indicate that: (1) the locomotor effects of stimulation in midbrain and hypothalamic sites can summate: (2) multiple locomotor suppressive systems are present in the midbrain and among them are a collicular system and a ventromedial system.
Picrotoxin caused myoclonic jerking of the opposite forelimb when applied to the striatum and the cortical surface of rat brain. Intrastriatal picrotoxin increased [3H]2-deoxyglucose uptake by the ipsilateral frontal cortex, thalamus and subthalamic nucleus. Electrolyte and ibotenic acid lesions made in the globus pallidus prevented striatally evoked myoclonus without affecting the movements elicited from the cortex. Electrolytic lesions in the subthalamic nucleus and thalamus affected striatally evoked myoclonus more than the cortically elicited response. It is concluded that striato-pallidal-thalamic-cortical circuitry is responsible for striatally evoked myoclonus.
The intracellular horseradish peroxidase technique was employed to study the morphology of basal forebrain neurons that were identified as cortically projecting by antidromic invasion from the cerebral cortex. Four neurons were examined in detail; they were located at different rostrocaudal levels within the basal forebrain. Their somata were large, 30-50 microns in longest dimension, and gave rise to three to eight primary dendrites, which ramified into third- to fifth-order dendrites. The longest observed dendrite in each neuron terminated at a distance of 600-900 microns from the soma. The sizes of soma and dendritic field of the two most rostrally located cells were smaller than those of the other two cells located more caudally. Dendritic spines were seen in all four cortically projecting basal forebrain neurons. Spines had shafts of variable lengths, and usually had spherical or elongated heads. The density of spines varied among the four neurons; one neuron, a type II cortically projecting basal forebrain neurons as defined physiologically by Reiner et al., had a much greater number of dendritic spines than the other three neurons, which were type I neurons. No somatic spines were observed. Presumptive axons were identified in three of the four cortically projecting basal forebrain neurons. These axons originated from either the soma or a primary dendrite, and two of them gave off local collaterals, which displayed occasional bouton-like swellings. The above observations confirm and extend previous findings that cortically projecting neurons in the basal forebrain are large multipolar cells, and provide evidence to support the conclusion that these cells, although somewhat variable in size, generally have extensive dendrites which display frequent spines.
Sixty-three cortically projecting basal forebrain neurons were identified in chloral hydrate anesthetized rats by antidromic activation from the cerebral cortex. Two subpopulations were noted: type I neurons exhibited two antidromic action potentials of constant latency and identical waveform in response to double pulse cortical stimulation. In contrast, type II neurons exhibited two antidromic action potentials of constant latency but differing waveforms in response to the double pulse paradigm. The phenomenon exhibited by type II cortically projecting basal forebrain neurons is interpreted as evidence for loss of the somatodendritic portion of the antidromic action potential with high frequency stimulation. The median latency to antidromic activation of type II neurons (13.5 ms) was significantly longer than that of type I neurons (3.9 ms). Spontaneous firing rates varied over a wide range (0-49 Hz), and there was no significant difference between the rates of type I and type II neurons. These data underscore the physiological heterogeneity of this presumptive cholinergic cortical afferent system. Anatomical studies have shown that most, but possibly not all cortically projecting basal forebrain neurons are cholinergic. The relative proportions of type I (87%) and type II (13%) neurons encountered in this study suggest that type I neurons might be cholinergic and type II neurons non-cholinergic. If substantiated, this hypothesis would permit cholinergic and non-cholinergic cortically projecting basal forebrain neurons to be distinguished using a simple test of antidromicity.
The right superior colliculus and right eye were ablated in hamsters within 12 h of birth and the visual and somatosensory representations in the remaining (left) superior colliculus were evaluated using standard single unit recording and receptive field mapping techniques when the animals reached adulthood (at least 3 months of age). In a number of the hamsters used for recording, injections of [3H]leucine were made into the left eye 6-10 days prior to the terminal experiment. This was done to insure that the neonatal lesions did, in fact, produce the extensive recrossing of retinal fibers demonstrated by others who have employed this preparation. All of the hamsters which received [3H]leucine injections prior to the recording experiment exhibited a markedly expanded ipsilateral retinocollicular projection and retinal axons which recrossed the midline at the level of the tectum. The recording experiments showed further that this projection resulted in a visual map which was generally mirror symmetric to that in normal hamsters. There were, however, numerous irregularities and discontinuities in this representation and, in a few hamsters, it appeared almost completely disorganized. There were also a number of abnormalities in the somatosensory representation in the deep tectal laminae of the neonatally brain damaged hamsters. There was a substantial increase in the number of cells with receptive fields that extended onto the ipsilateral side of the body, neurons with split receptive fields were recorded and there were changes in the magnification of different portions of the body surface. These alterations did not, however, change the organization of the somatosensory map in a manner which brought it into alignment with the visual representation in the superficial laminae. Nevertheless, additional recording experiments in animals subjected to enucleation of both eyes and ablation of the superficial laminae of one superior colliculus did indicate that the existence of the aberrant retinal projection was a necessary condition for the somatosensory abnormalities which we observed. Additional anterograde and retrograde tracing experiments demonstrated only one abnormality in the organization of the somatosensory afferent input to the remaining colliculus. In 75% of the brain damaged hamsters, there was a weak crossed projection from the sensorimotor cortex that was never observed in normal animals. Ablation of this cortex at the time of the recording experiment did not, however, reduce the incidence of abnormal somatosensory receptive fields in these hamsters.
The decussation patterns of retinal ganglion cells in adult pigmented and albino ferrets were determined from the distribution of cells labelled after large unilateral injections of horseradish peroxidase into the visual pathway, involving the lateral geniculate nucleus and fibres of passage to the superior colliculus. About 6000 retinal ganglion cells project ipsilaterally in pigmented ferrets compared with only about 1500 in albino ferrets. In both strains, the vast majority of these cells (99 and 87% in pigmented and albino animals, respectively) are located in the temporal crescent, although we describe one albino ferret in which an aberrant uncrossed projection arises from nasal retina. In pigmented ferrets, there is a sharp nasotemporal division that runs through the area centralis; a small proportion of the ganglion cells in temporal crescent (less than 10%) does project contralaterally. In albinos, however, the majority of cells in temporal retina project contralaterally. There is no clear nasotemporal division in the albino retina; the density of uncrossed ganglion cells is reduced throughout temporal crescent and at no location exceeds the comparable density of the crossed projection. The peak density within the reduced uncrossed projection is also displaced away from the area centralis into temporal retina. Analysis of cell type on the basis of soma size indicates that whereas large horseradish peroxidase injections into the visual pathway of pigmented ferrets label all types of ganglion cell in the crossed projection, injections restricted to the superior colliculus label only those ganglion cells with large or small somata. The distribution of cell sizes in the crossed projection from temporal retina is biased towards small cells in the pigmented ferret but in albinos resembles that seen in the crossed projection from nasal retina. Thus the adult pigmented ferret has both a well developed nasotemporal division in which decussation lines are obvious in the crossed and uncrossed pathways and also, unlike rodents but like cats, a class of ganglion cell that does not project to the superior colliculus. The albino mutation both reduces the uncrossed projection throughout temporal retina, although the reduction is greatest close to the area centralis, and also commensurately increases the crossed projection from temporal retina.
Experiments were performed in anesthetized, immobilized, artificially respirated pigeons (Columba livia). Extracellular recordings from 56 antidromically activated and collided sympathetic preganglionic neurons were obtained. Eleven cells were intracellularly labeled with horseradish peroxidase and reconstructed at the light microscopic level. Electrophysiologically there were no statistical differences between labeled and unlabeled neurons. Four different somatic shapes were observed: fusiform, pyriform, multipolar and stellate. Nine of 11 cells were located within the principal preganglionic cell column (column of Terni), the other two were within nucleus intercalatus spinalis. Principal column neurons exhibited planar, horizontally aligned dendritic arbors with major extensions directed rostrocaudally. Unexpectedly, the majority of these cells also had dendritic branch projections which spanned the entire width of the ipsilateral zona intermedia. Contralateral dendritic terminal arborizations were evident in seven neurons. Intercalatus neurons were multipolar-shaped and exhibited a notably different dendritic arrangement from principal column preganglionic cells. The dendrites of intercalated cells coursed obliquely within the transverse spinal cord axis, giving rise to major dendritic extensions into the base of the dorsal horn, the dorsolateral funiculus, and the dorsal aspects of the ventral horn. Irrespective of somatic subnuclear location, the morphology of preganglionic dendrites was similar: (1) Largely primary, secondary, and tertiary processes were smooth. (2) Fine caliber proximal and distal elements appeared beaded or &quot;varicose.&quot; (3) Distal processes gave rise to thin-stalked, spine-like appendages. The axons of preganglionic neurons arose from cell bodies as well as primary and secondary dendrites. The axons of two cells branched intraspinally. The present findings provide detailed descriptions of the somatic structures and accompanying dendritic trees of preganglionic neurons within nucleus intercalatus. The observations also include anatomical evidence showing the intraspinal collateralization of sympathetic preganglionic axons. In general, avian sympathetic preganglionic neurons located within the principal cell column appear to be structurally homologous to their mammalian counterparts within the intermediolateral cell column of thoracic spinal cord.
Morphine hydrochloride (25-200 nmol), [D-Ala2, D-Leu5]enkephalin (10-200 nmol) and naloxone hydrochloride (100-1000 nmol) were injected unilaterally into the rat amygdala and the following electrographic, behavioural and neuropathological responses were studied. Microinjections of low doses of morphine (25-50 nmol) resulted in behavioural alterations characterized by staring, gustatory automatisms and wet shakes, whereas higher doses additionally produced motor limbic seizures and status epilepticus. The first changes in the electroencephalogram appeared in the amygdala immediately after the administration of morphine and rapidly spread to hippocampal and cortical areas. Electrographic alterations consisted of high voltage fast activity, spiking, bursts of polyspiking, electrographic seizures and periods of postictal depression. Neuropathological analysis of frontal forebrain sections by means of light microscopy revealed widespread, seizure-related damage confined to amygdala, olfactory cortex, thalamus, hippocampal formation, neocortex and substantia nigra. Pretreatment of animals with naloxone, 2-20 mg/kg s.c., as well as simultaneous microinjection of the non-convulsant dose of naloxone, 100 nmol, with morphine, 100 nmol, into the amygdala failed to block the development of convulsant activity and seizure-related brain damage produced by the opiate. In contrast, diazepam, 10 mg/kg i.p., when administered prior to the microinjection of morphine into the amygdala, abolished the epileptogenic effects of the drug. [D-Ala2, D-Leu5]Enkephalin, 10-200 nmol, elicited electrographic and behavioural responses similar to those seen after low doses of morphine, when administered into the amygdala. High voltage fast activity, single spikes, bursts of polyspiking, electrographic seizures and periods of postictal depression were seen in the electroencephalogram, but no behavioural signs of motor limbic seizures could be detected. The only behavioural correlates of epileptiform electrographic activity were wet shakes, myoclonic head twiches and gustatory automatisms. The examination of frontal forebrain sections from rats receiving [D-Ala2, D-Leu5]enkephalin revealed no morphological changes. Pretreatment of rats with either naloxone, 2 mg/kg, or diazepam, 10 mg/kg, blocked the development of behavioural and electrographic sequelae of the peptide. Naloxone, 100-1000 nmol, when microinjected into the amygdala, produced electrographic, behavioural and morphological alterations resembling those seen after high doses of morphine.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Lesions of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis in rats have been used to investigate functions of the extrinsic cortical cholinergic system which originates from these neurons. These lesions also produce extensive non-specific subcortical damage and associated regulatory and neurological impairments, causing doubt about the specificity of consequent functional impairments. Here, nucleus basalis magnocellularis lesions made with four different neurotoxic amino acids (kainic acid, ibotenic acid, N-methyl-D-aspartate, and quisqualic acid) have been compared. Quisqualic acid produced less subcortical damage and lesser neurological and regulatory impairments than the other toxins at doses that produced comparable cholinergic deafferentation of the neocortex, as assessed both histologically and biochemically. This suggests that these impairments are non-specific rather than specific consequences of cholinergic cell loss. The effects on learning a spatial navigation task were more ambiguous, suggesting the involvement of both cholinergic and non-cholinergic systems. Impairment of a passive shock avoidance task was as great following quisqualic acid as the other neurotoxins, which may suggest a more direct relationship specifically with the decline in cortical cholinergic activity. It is concluded that in the absence of availability of a specific cholinergic neurotoxin, quisqualic acid produces less non-specific neuroanatomical and neurological side effects than the more widely used toxins N-methyl-D-aspartate, kainic acid or ibotenic acid.
The sites of origin of brain stem enkephalin and cholecystokinin projections to the rodent spinal trigeminal nucleus were studied utilizing the combined retrograde transport-peroxidase antiperoxidase immunohistochemical technique. Several brain stem areas were found to contain enkephalin-like immunoreactive double-labeled neurons following injection of wheat germ agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase or horseradish peroxidase into the spinal trigeminal nucleus. The largest numbers of enkephalin double-labeled neurons were identified in the nucleus pontis oralis, nucleus raphe medianis, medial vestibular nucleus and the midbrain periaqueductal gray. Enkephalin projections to the spinal trigeminal nucleus were also found to originate from the nucleus solitarius, nucleus raphe pallidus, nucleus raphe magnus, nucleus raphe dorsalis, nucleus reticularis paragigantocellularis, nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis pars alpha and the deep mesencephalic nucleus. In contrast to the numerous sources of enkephalin input to the spinal trigeminal nucleus, cholecystokinin projections to this region were limited to four brain stem nuclei. These included the nucleus solitarius, raphe obscurus, nucleus paragigantocellularis and the ventral reticular nucleus of the medulla. The finding that only a small number of brain stem cholecystokinin-like immunoreactive neurons project to the spinal trigeminal nucleus supports the hypothesis that most of the cholecystokinin input to the spinal trigeminal nucleus arises from primary afferent trigeminal fibers. The spinal trigeminal nucleus is known to play a role in processing sensory information and in the transmission of orofacial nociception. The present study identifies several brain stem sites which provide enkephalin and/or cholecystokinin input to the spinal trigeminal nucleus. Several of these nuclei have been implicated as components of the endogenous pain control system and the present results raise the possibility that they may modulate incoming orofacial nociception by releasing the endogenous opioid, enkephalin. Cholecystokinin, on the other hand, has been demonstrated in other studies to attenuate the action of opiates and thus may play an opposing role in the spinal trigeminal nucleus.
Angiotensin converting enzyme was localized in rat brain by quantitative in vitro autoradiography using an [125I]labelled converting enzyme inhibitor called &quot;351A&quot;. This radioligand was found to bind with high affinity and specificity to angiotensin converting enzyme. Very high levels of converting enzyme were observed in the ventricular choroid plexus, ependyma of all ventricles and large and medium blood vessels, subfornical organ, and organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis. High levels of converting enzyme were found in the basal ganglia including caudate putamen, nucleus accumbens, globus pallidus, entopenduncular nucleus and substantia nigra pars reticulata. The neurosecretory nuclei, paraventricular nucleus and supraoptic nucleus, as well as the median eminence and posterior pituitary displayed high levels of the enzyme. In the amygdala, basolateral, lateral, basomedial, medial and anterior cortical nuclei showed moderate converting enzyme activity. The medial habenula and molecular layer of the dentate gyrus showed high levels of activity. In the cerebellum, dense labelling was observed in the Purkinje cell layer. Moderate levels of converting enzyme occurred in the gelatinosus subnucleus of the caudal part of the nucleus of the spinal tract of the trigeminal. There was a close correspondence between the distribution of angiotensin converting enzyme and angiotensin II in the neurosecretory nuclei (paraventricular and supraoptic nuclei) and median eminence and this suggests a role of angiotensin converting enzyme in the production of angiotensin II in this system. There was also a good correspondence between the distribution of angiotensin converting enzyme and angiotensin II in the subfornical organ, median preoptic nucleus, and organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis, structures abutting the anterior wall of the third ventricle which are implicated in fluid and electrolyte homeostasis. A striking discrepancy occurs in the basal ganglia which is reported to contain very little angiotensin II or angiotensin II receptors but is very rich in angiotensin converting enzyme. It is concluded that the enzyme may act to convert circulating angiotensin I to angiotensin II in circumventricular organs; generate intraneuronal angiotensin II in pathways such as the hypothalamic-hypophyseal tract; and process neuropeptides other than angiotensin II in regions such as basal ganglia.
The distribution of acetylcholinesterase and choline acetyltransferase in primary visual areas of adult pigmented ferret was determined with cholinesterase histochemistry and choline acetyltransferase immunohistochemistry. In all visual areas the distribution of acetylcholinesterase in the neuropil closely matches that of choline acetyltransferase. In the cerebral cortex acetylcholinesterase and choline acetyltransferase are associated with axons found in every cortical layer and in the white matter. Area 17, identified by Nissl architectonics and cytochrome oxidase histochemistry, is distinguished by having a relatively low density of choline acetyltransferase- and acetylcholinesterase-stained axons in layer IV. Certain cortical non-pyramidal cell types show moderate staining for acetylcholinesterase after relatively long incubations, but no choline acetyltransferase-positive cells are observed in the cortex. In the lateral geniculate nucleus and superior colliculus the levels of choline acetyltransferase and acetylcholinesterase are considerably higher than in cerebral cortex, and choline acetyltransferase-stained axons there display prominent varicosities. The distribution of choline acetyltransferase and acetylcholinesterase in the neuropil of lateral geniculate nucleus and superior colliculus of ferret shows marked laminar variation. For instance, in the lateral geniculate nucleus, the levels of acetylcholinesterase and choline acetyltransferase in the &quot;On&quot; sublaminae of laminae A and A1 are higher than the &quot;Off&quot; sublaminae. In the superficial layers of the superior colliculus the levels of choline acetyltransferase and acetylcholinesterase are highest in the stratum zonale and lowest in the stratum opticum; in the intermediate gray layer of the superior colliculus acetylcholinesterase- and choline acetyltransferase-stained fibres are distributed into dense patches. As in cortex, choline acetyltransferase-positive cell bodies are not found in the lateral geniculate nucleus or superior colliculus, and acetylcholinesterase-stained cell bodies are visible only after long incubations. Cell bodies staining positively for choline acetyltransferase are found in a satellite of the superior colliculus, the parabigeminal nucleus.
Immunohistochemical staining and retrograde fluorescent tracing techniques were used to demonstrate the presence of adenosine deaminase in preganglionic parasympathetic neurons. Both brainstem and sacral spinal cord parasympathetic nuclei were found to contain a subpopulation of neurons immunoreactive for adenosine deaminase. Immunostaining of preganglionic neurons in brainstem was restricted to a group of cells which were shown by retrograde tracing with Fast Blue to project exclusively to the sphenopalatine ganglion. This group was defined as the lacrimo-nasopalatine parasympathetic nucleus. Neurons in all other cranial preganglionic centers were devoid of adenosine deaminase immunoreactivity. In spinal cord adenosine deaminase-immunoreactive neurons were found in the intermediolateral gray matter in the region of the sacral parasympathetic nucleus. Injections of Fast Blue into the pelvic ganglion labeled large numbers of neurons in this nucleus, only some of which contained adenosine deaminase. The majority of neurons immunoreactive for adenosine deaminase were also shown to be immunoreactive for choline acetyltransferase in both brainstem and sacral parasympathetic nuclei. The present results show that a subclass of preganglionic parasympathetic neurons are among the few structures in the central nervous system that express what appear to be high levels of adenosine deaminase. This observation together with evidence suggesting that purines serve as neurotransmitters in some sacral parasympathetic neurons supports the notion that adenosine deaminase may constitute a marker for adenine nucleoside and/or nucleotide neurotransmission.
The spinal trigeminal nucleus is involved in orofacial sensory transmission. Cholecystokinin octapeptide has been identified in axons in this nucleus and appears to play a role in the transmission of orofacial sensation from the trigeminal ganglia to the spinal trigeminal nucleus. Although cholecystokinin has been reported in axonal processes within the spinal trigeminal nucleus at the light microscopic level, nothing is known about the synaptic relationships of these cholecystokinin axons. The goals of this study were to quantitatively determine the volume fraction of cholecystokinin-like immunoreactive cell bodies and fibers in the three subnuclei of the spinal trigeminal nucleus, to provide the first ultrastructural description of cholecystokinin-like immunoreactive processes within these subnuclei and to analyse the synaptic relationships of cholecystokinin-like immunoreactive processes within the spinal trigeminal nucleus neuropil. Cholecystokinin-like immunoreactivity was localized by the peroxidase-antiperoxidase method or the peroxidase labeled, avidin-biotin technique and quantified at the light microscopic level by point counting. Immunoreactive fibers were present in all three subnuclei, but the greatest volume fraction of immunoreactive axons was obtained in laminae I and II of the nucleus caudalis. No immunoreactive cell bodies were evident in any of the subnuclei. The majority of immunoreactive profiles in all three subnuclei were identified ultrastructurally as axon terminals that contained both small and medium sized agranular vesicles and infrequently, large dense core vesicles. These immunoreactive terminals were usually found in close contact with non-immunoreactive dendrites with which they were observed to form asymmetric synapses. Immunoreactive terminals were occasionally observed to contact the cell bodies of large non-immunoreactive neurons on the border of laminae I and II in the nucleus caudalis. These results indicate that cholecystokinin-like immunoreactive processes are present throughout the spinal trigeminal nucleus, and in nucleus caudalis show a distribution similar to that reported for the spinal cord dorsal horn. Immunoreactive axons make synaptic contact with both the dendrites and perikarya of spinal trigeminal nucleus neurons. No axoaxonic synapses were observed. These findings suggest that cholecystokinin plays an important role in spinal trigeminal nucleus function. The possible colocalization of cholecystokinin and substance P in the spinal trigeminal nucleus, and the possible role of cholecystokinin in attenuating the action of opioids in the spinal trigeminal nucleus are also discussed.
An autoradiographic procedure has been used to determine the quantitative distributions of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABAA and GABAB) receptor subtypes in rat brain. Although the concentrations of both receptor binding sites were similar in some brain regions GABAA sites generally outnumbered GABAB sites. The highest concentration of GABAA sites were detected in the frontal cortex, the granule cell layer of the cerebellum, the olfactory bulb and the thalamic medial geniculate. The highest concentration of GABAB sites occurred in the molecular layer of the cerebellum, the interpeduncular nucleus, frontal cortex, anterior olfactory nucleus and thalamic nuclei. In addition the globus pallidus, temporal cortex, lateral posterior thalamus, superior colliculus, pontine nucleus, raphe magnus, spinal trigeminal tract and substantia gelatinosa contained significantly more GABAB sites than GABAA sites. The physiological and pharmacological significance of this heterogeneity has yet to be determined.
Responses to nerve stimulation were recorded with intracellular microelectrodes from neurons in the inferior mesenteric ganglion of the guinea-pig. An event was recorded which was subthreshold for a somatic action potential but which had a short rise time and a rapid initial repolarization that gave the event a small but well-defined peak. This event was termed a &quot;partial spike.&quot; During repeated stimulation of the same nerve trunk, the fluctuations in the amplitude of the partial spike were small compared to those of evoked synaptic potentials. Stimulation of different nerve trunks evoked partial spikes of different amplitudes. When different nerve trunks were stimulated at short intervals between stimuli, one partial spike could occlude another partial spike. Antidromic responses could not be blocked by a preceding partial spike. This suggests that partial spikes are not initial segment spikes. Tubocurarine reversibly abolished partial spikes which is indicative of a synaptic origin. It is concluded that partial spikes result from action potentials initiated by synaptic potentials in the dendrites and which fail to generate somatic action potentials.
Stereotaxic injections of a dopamine D1 receptor agonist (SKF 38393) into different regions of the supersensitive striatum of rats with a unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine-induced lesion duplicated the systemic effects of the drug in a topographical manner. Although there was considerable overlap, it was possible to recognize discrete active zones or &quot;hot-spots&quot; giving rise to prominent sniffing, head movements and contralaterally directed circling, posture and grooming, both in the coronal plane and along the rostro-caudal axis. Two behaviours peculiar to D1 stimulation included contralateral forepaw myoclonus and forepaw nibbling, which paradoxically was directed mainly ipsilaterally. Each of the behavioural elements occurred independently of the others and after an inexplicably long latency. They were inhibited by the D1 antagonist SCH 23390, but not by the D2 blocking drug metoclopramide. Comparable circling responses were evoked by a D2 agonist (lisuride) injected into the neostriatum after a short delay, and instantaneously by apomorphine (D1/D2 agonist). Both drug behaviours originated diffusely from all parts of the denervated striatum with no obvious &quot;hot-spots&quot;, except for circling which exhibited a bimodal distribution rostro-caudally. The actions of lisuride were blocked by systemic metoclopramide, but not by SCH 23390, while the actions of apomorphine were inhibited by both antagonists. Topographies of D2 receptor-mediated events were quite different from those encountered for D1 receptor stimulation by SKF 38393, though neither corresponded to the autoradiographic distribution of D1 and D2 binding sites in the intact striatum. These results reiterate the importance of D1 receptors in motor control and provide a basis for future investigations of the output pathways subserving D1-mediated behaviours.
Modifications of the single-section Golgi-impregnation procedure of Gabbott and Somogyi are described. The modifications allow easier and more rapid preparation of the sections for Golgi-impregnation and easier handling of large numbers of serial sections. The technique consists of placing a section that has been treated with osmium tetroxide and potassium dichromate on a microscope slide and &quot;sandwiching&quot; it with a second microscope slide. The two slides are held together at one end by tape and the assembly is dipped into a solution of silver nitrate. Golgi-impregnation of neurons occurs within a few hours and is generally complete within 12 h. The technique has been applied to sections through the caudate nucleus of the cat and ferret in order to define the morphological characteristics of striatal substance P- and methionine enkephalin-immunoreactive neurons. Sections were first incubated to reveal the immunoreactive structures and then subjected to the Golgi method. Golgi-impregnated neurons that were immunoreactive for either substance P or methionine enkephalin had medium-size perikarya from which several dendrites emerged. The dendrites branched close to the perikaryon; secondary and higher order dendrites were densely laden with spines, as many as 15 spines per 10 microns of dendrite. It is concluded that both striatal substance P-containing and methionine enkephalin-containing neurons are of the medium-size densely spiny type. Medium-size densely spiny neurons may be homogeneous with respect to their somatodendritic morphology but heterogeneous with respect to their chemical characteristics and axonal morphology.
A portion of the nigrostriatal projection that originates from presumably dopaminergic neurons in the caudal pars compacta of the substantia nigra and the suprajacent pars dorsalis (retrorubral area), was shown by [3H]amino acid autoradiographic tracing to distribute nonhomogeneously in the head of the caudate nucleus, such that zones of high density termination are in register with the archipelago of substance P cell clusters revealed immunohistochemically in the same and adjacent tissue sections of the cat's brain. Axons from this same portion of the substantia nigra distribute densely at caudal levels of the putamen where again substance P-immunoreactive striatal cells are numerous. In nearby tissue sections from the same cases, tyrosine hydroxylase-like immunoreactivity suggested only subtle variations in the density of the catecholamine axon network within the striatum. Thus, whereas dopamine axons are distributed densely throughout the striatum, those originating from cells in the caudal pars compacta et dorsalis of the substantia nigra and ending in the head of the caudate nucleus appear to terminate preferentially within the substance P cell clusters. These data suggest that the striatal substance P cells, which send their axons selectively to the entopeduncular nucleus and substantia nigra, but much less so the globus pallidus, are a major target of nigrostriatal dopamine transmission. This result is discussed with respect to the anatomical, neurochemical and functional organization of the striatifugal projection system.
By using intracerebral dialysis in combination with high performance liquid chromatography and electrochemical detection, extracellular posterior hypothalamic adrenaline, noradrenaline, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid were measured in the anaesthetized rat and changes in their levels monitored following administration of tranylcypromine and electrical stimulation of the rostral ventrolateral medulla. Tranylcypromine (10 mg/kg i.p.) administration decreased basal extracellular 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and 5-hydroxyindole acetic acid levels with a simultaneous increase in adrenaline and noradrenaline levels. Electrical stimulation of the C1 area of the rostral ventrolateral medulla increased (+56.6%) extracellular adrenaline levels in the posterior hypothalamus with a simultaneous increase in mean arterial pressure (+48 mm Hg) compared to prestimulation control values. No change was seen in posterior hypothalamic extracellular levels of noradrenaline, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and 5-hydroxyindole acetic acid during the stimulation period. Electrical stimulation of areas close to but outside the C1 region had no effect on either mean arterial pressure or posterior hypothalamic extracellular levels of the amines or the metabolites. The increase in adrenaline levels in the hypothalamus during stimulation of the C1 region supports the evidence for an adrenergic pathway from the rostral ventrolateral medulla to the hypothalamus and suggests that the increase in mean arterial pressure during electrical stimulation to the C1 region may relate to a specific increase in adrenaline levels.
Using indirect immunofluorescence technique combined with retrograde tracing as well as surgical lesions, a system of spinothalamic neurons containing both galanin- and cholecystokinin-like immunoreactivity has been defined. The cell bodies are located in the lumbar segments L1-L5 with a preferential localization dorsal to the central canal at rostral levels and lateral to the canal at caudal levels. The cells project via the ventral part of the lateral funiculus to the most ventral and posterior parts of thalamus. Here a distinct, varicose terminal network was seen extending caudally from an area lateral to the medial lemniscus, running medially over the medial lemniscus, traversing the parafascicular nucleus and running dorsal to the fasciculus retroflexus into the periventricular gray matter. Transection of various parts of the spinal cord as well as retrograde tracing experiments indicate that the spinothalamic galanin cholecystokinin system represents a crossed pathway. The present results demonstrate that a spinothalamic system can be characterized by its content of galanin- and cholecystokinin-like peptides, two putative messenger molecules. It is only a minor component of the total spinothalamic projection.
The anatomical localization of opiate receptors in the human spinal cord has been examined in six cases aged 7-41 years using quantitative autoradiographic methods following the incubation of fresh, unfixed cryostat sections with [3H]diprenorphine. In order to precisely localize the distribution of receptors in the spinal cord, the laminar anatomy of the spinal grey was demonstrated at each spinal level examined using 50-microns sections stained for myelin, Nissl substance and substance P. In all cases, autoradiograms demonstrated that opiate receptors were distributed in a similar fashion in the grey matter of the cervical, thoracic, lumbar, sacral and coccygeal regions of the human spinal cord. At all 25 spinal levels examined, opiate receptors were mainly localized within the upper laminae of the dorsal horn (laminae I-III) and within the tract of Lissauer. The highest density of opiate receptors was localized within the inner segment of lamina II where the receptors formed a very dense band lying immediately dorsal to lamina III. The density of receptors in this inner region of lamina II (33 +/- 2 fmol/mg) was more than two-and-one-half times greater than that in the remaining upper laminae which showed moderate receptor densities: lamina I (12 +/- 4 fmol/mg) and outer lamina II (13 +/- 3 fmol/mg) both showed similar receptor densities which were higher than those in lamina III (10 +/- 3 fmol/mg) The tract of Lissauer (11 +/- 2 fmol/mg) also showed a moderate density of opiate receptors which was intermediate between the densities in laminae I/IIo and the density of lamina III. The density of receptors in the remaining laminae of the spinal cord varied from moderately low to virtually zero. Moderately low densities of receptors were found in laminae V, VI, VIII, IX and X with very low levels within laminae IV and VII. In particular, in lamina VII opiate receptors were unable to be detected above normal background levels in the dorsal nucleus of Clarke. These results show that, as in other mammalian species, opiate receptors in the human spinal cord are mainly concentrated in the upper laminae of the dorsal horn and in the tract of Lissauer. The possible role of these receptors in modulating spinal nociceptive information is discussed with respect to previous findings on the relationship of opiate receptors to primary afferent fibres in the spinal cord.
The pattern of accommodation of spike activity during sustained membrane depolarization was investigated in primary afferent neurons recorded intracellularly in vitro in the rat. We show that gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and baclofen reduce accommodation in some fast conducting dorsal root ganglion neurons. This effect was restricted to those A delta cells with axons displaying a rather fast conduction velocity (15-25 m/s). GABA-induced blockade of accommodation was not observed in large A beta neurons. Pharmacological studies with baclofen, as opposed to isoguvacine, indicate that this effect is due to GABAB receptors activation. The effect is also shown to be resistant to bicuculline antagonism. In slow conducting afferents, GABAB receptor activation is known to shorten the CA2+ component of action potentials. By contrast, no such component was observed in the A delta cells studied. Furthermore, Ca2+-activated K+ conductances are not implicated in the reduction of accommodation caused by GABAB receptor activation. In conjunction with the actual knowledge about the distribution of GABA receptors on primary afferents, our result indicates that GABAA and GABAB receptors coexist on all categories of A delta and C primary afferents in the rat.






Preflight training frequently has been proposed as a potential solution to the problem of space motion sickness. The paper considers successively the otolith reinterpretation, the concept for a preflight adaptation trainer and the research with the Miami University Seesaw, the Wright Patterson Air-Force Base Dynamic Environment Simulator and the Visually Coupled Airborne Systems Simulator prototype adaptation trainers.
Recent research results from ground and flight experiments on motion sickness and space sickness conducted by the Man Vehicle Laboratory are reviewed. New tools developed include a mathematical model for motion sickness, a method for quantitative measurements of skin pallor and blush in ambulatory subjects, and a magnitude estimation technique for ratio scaling of nausea or discomfort. These have been used to experimentally study the time course of skin pallor and subjective symptoms in laboratory motion sickness. In prolonged sickness, subjects become hypersensitive to nauseogenic stimuli. Results of a Spacelab-1 flight experiment are described in which four observers documented the stimulus factors for and the symptoms/signs of space sickness. The clinical character of space sickness differs somewhat from acute laboratory motion sickness. However SL-1 findings support the view that space sickness is fundamentally a motion sickness. Symptoms were subjectively alleviated by head movement restriction, maintenance of a familiar orientation with respect to the visual environment, and wedging between or strapping onto surfaces which provided broad contact cues confirming the absence of body motion.
The visual cortex of the cat is characterized by marked modifiability of neuronal responsiveness by visual experience in infancy, and stereotyped pattern of functional architectures in adulthood. The question of how the plasticity of the infant visual cortex is compatible with the regular patterns of the adult visual cortex has been a central problem of the brain neuroscience. This question was answered by quantifying the plasticity in the visual cortical circuitry of the infant kittens as changes in synaptic transmission produced after conditioning stimulation of the visual pathway. The results indicate that the solution of this question is the heterogeneous distribution of the synaptic plasticity in the infant visual cortex: the plasticity is not uniformly present in the visual cortical circuitry, but is limited only to a part of the circuitry (the cortico-cortical synapses in the supragranular layers). Therefore, the visual function (photic responsiveness) may be learned during the postnatal life of the kittens by the supragranular cells with plastic synapses, while the other cortical cells with fewer plastic synapses put prenatally designed constraints on the learning, so that the learning yields the adult cortical circuitry with regular patterns of organization.
Restoration of the circadian rhythmicity in wheel-running activity was shown in rats with bilateral suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN) lesions, after transplantation of the neonatal SCN into the wall of the third ventricle. Free-running circadian rhythms of the wheel-running activity were recorded in young adult rats at least for a month under constant dark condition. Then, bilateral SCNs were completely lesioned electrolytically under deep pentobarbital anaesthesia. After further recording for more than two months without obvious circadian rhythmicity in wheel-running activity, the animals were subjected to transplantation of the SCN. SCNs taken from day 1 neonatal rats were transplanted by injecting the grafts into the third ventricle of the host rat under pentobarbital anaesthesia. After recovery from the procedure, the rat was returned to a cage with a running wheel. Food and water were available at all times. Successful transplantation led to restoration of the circadian rhythmicity starting from two weeks and up to three months after the transplantation. To identify the SCN in the transplanted graft, we used an immunohistochemical staining method for the VIP (vasoactive intestinal polypeptide) and vasopressin. The VIP was located particularly in the ventral area of the SCN, whereas vasopressin was in the dorsal area. In most cases, where circadian rhythmicity was successfully restored, the graft was attached to the caudal wall of the third ventricle.
Axonal polyglucosan bodies in myelinated axons in the ventral posterolateral nucleus of the human thalamus (VPL) are described. These axonal inclusions were distributed exclusively in the dorsolateral part of the caudal VPL, and their arrangement may be associated with fibres originating from the gracile nucleus. They were not observed in patients under age of 50, and appeared to increase in number and size with advancing age. It is suggested that axonal polyglucosan bodies are an ageing phenomenon of the secondary sensory fibres.
Psychopharmacology has had a profound influence on the understanding of the basic mechanisms of the brain and on the treatment of mental disorders, which are among the major morbidity factors of modern societies. In recent years, there has not only been an almost paralyzing increase in paperwork and committees but also an increasing gap, in Europe, between the research potential and the actual achievements. If we are to ensure that Europe's place at the forefront of psychopharmacology is not endangered, we need a European- wide research and administrative strategy. I wish that the ECNP will evolve quickly into a respected counterpart of the American College of Neuropsychopharmacology and so provide a valuable stimulus for high quality research.




Amino acid immunocytochemistry represents a new and powerful tool in neuroscience. Antisera are now available to a large number of amino acids, including those that are thought to serve a transmitter role. The antiserum described here against conjugated taurine seems to be of good specificity and can be used to demonstrate taurine in the CNS as well as in other organs; in normal tissue and in experimental and pathological conditions.

The effect of ethanol on the electrical membrane properties of cultured human fetal sensory neurons was studied with the whole cell tight seal technique. Alcohol diminished in high concentrations (greater than 200 mM) Na- and K-conductance.
The brain content of Diazepam Binding Inhibitor (DBI), its cell location and that of its specific mRNA were studied immunohistochemically and by in situ hybridization. Various strains of rats were genetically selected for their alcohol tolerance and the above mentioned brain parameters were studied before and after chronic ethanol consumption. The DBI like immunoreactivity (DBI-LI) was found to be located in selected neuronal population and in non-neuronal cells. The DBI-mRNA was located in brain areas where DBI is abundant. It was immunochemically determined that the DBI content was increased in cerebellum and in hypothalamus of alcohol preferring rats after chronic ethanol consumption. DBI content was compared in the cerebellum of rats genetically selected for different alcohol sensitivity and it was significantly higher on the ethanol sensitive (ANT) rat strain.
A homotypic population of rat brain astrocyte (RBA-1) cell line was used to investigate the effects of ethanol on uptake of [3H]-arachidonic acid and incorporation of label into phospholipids and neutral lipids in the cell. Incubation of the cells with [3H]-arachidonic acid resulted in labeling of most phospholipids and triacylglycerols, although individual phospholipids exhibited different rates for acquiring the label. Labeled arachidonate was first incorporated into phosphatidylcholines and phosphatidylinositols prior to equilibriation with other phospholipids. In short term incubation (8 hr), ethanol (128-255 mM) enhanced the incorporation of labeled arachidonate into most phospholipids. In addition, ethanol at 128 mM enhanced the labeling of the triacylglycerols, and the difference was greater with increasing time of ethanol exposure. It is concluded that ethanol enhanced the uptake and incorporation of polyunsaturated fatty acids into the cell membrane lipids. This study further indicates the feasibility of using the RBA-1 cells in culture to probe the effects of ethanol on membrane lipid metabolism.
In Alzheimer disease (AD), dysfunction in several neuronal systems is associated with alterations in neurotransmitter receptors. Although receptors are important components of normal neural circuitry, their role in the pathophysiology of AD is only beginning to be clarified. For example, despite the consistent loss of presynaptic cholinergic markers in cortex in AD, the pattern of changes in cortical muscarinic cholinergic receptors is unclear, although the density of nicotinic receptors appears to be reduced. In AD, reductions in serotonin, glutamate, and somatostatin receptors also occur in cortex, and an increase in corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) receptors has been reported. Studies of neurotransmitter receptor alterations in AD are contributing to the characterization of the biology of this disorder and could result in the development of better diagnostic tests and therapeutic agents.
It has been suggested that complexes of multiple congenital malformations, involving limbs and viscera, may be caused by embryonic neural crest injury. Structures supplied by the sensory and autonomic nerves derived from the injured zone of crest would suffer defective development through presumed impairment of neurotrophic influence. Our study aimed to examine this concept by a retrospective analysis of autopsy findings in 27 babies who died of multiple congenital malformations associated with longitudinal limb defects. Sclerotome maps of the segmental sensory innervation of the skeleton were used to analyse the limb defects in terms of their nerve supply. From a review of the literature, the approximate segmental contribution of neural crest to the autonomic innervation of internal organs was ascertained, and thus &quot;viscerotome&quot; diagrams were constructed. Application of sclerotomes and viscerotomes to the data derived from the autopsy reports showed a neuroanatomic correlation in 89% of cases. Interpretation of multiple malformation syndromes is proposed on the basis of neurotomes, or embryonic developmental fields with common regional innervation.

In this article the author reviews the different models of push-pull cannula device used in neuroendocrinology, mainly those applied to the study of neurohormones release from median eminence (ME). At present, three technical details might explain some disagreements resulting from application of push-pull perfusion (PPP) in neuroendocrinology, concerning for instance, the SRIF release: firstly, the tissue damage connected with the diameter of the cannulas utilized (guide and perfusion), secondly, the perfusion flow which can vary from 15 to 40 microliter/min according to the authors, and finally, the means of implanting the cannula in the ME (between 8 days and 1 hour before perfusion). The author compares the values of SRIF, TRH and CRF releases measured by portal cannula with those obtained by PPP. It would seem that the application of a physiological stimulus triggers a response measured in the perfusate whose amplitude as compared to basal levels, is more important than the amplitude measured in portal blood. In conclusion, in despite of its limits--reproductiveness and yield--, at the present time PPP may be considered one of the major methodological tools affording the physiologist optimum conditions for in vivo studies.
CRH-IR is significantly reduced in the cerebral cortex of individuals with AD, PD and PSP. Furthermore, we report that the decreases in CRH-IR in AD are accompanied by reciprocal increases in CRH receptors in affected cortical areas. The changes in pre- and postsynaptic markers for CRH are significantly correlated with decrements in ChAT activity. The demonstration of an up regulation of CRH receptors following a decrease in CRH-IR indicates a physiological relevance of the receptor site and is consistent with the concept that CRH acts as a neurotransmitter in normal cortical functions and that disease of this peptidergic systems may be important in certain clinical manifestations of dementia. While the clinical consequences of the changes in CRH in these various disorders are unclear, future therapies directed at increasing CRH levels in brain may prove useful for treatment.

In many aspects of pro-ACTH/endorphin processing, newborn melanocytes are mature by birth. The newborn melanocytes correctly process precursor to many of the expected products including alpha MSH and beta-endorphin, the melanocytes perform tissue-specific modifications such as alpha-N-acetylation and additional proteolytic steps and they respond to dopaminergic agents but not to physiological levels of CRF or glucocorticoids. These features are retained in serum-free cultures of newborn intermediate pituitary cells. Thus, the major developmental alterations in the intermediate pituitary melanotropes involve the net 150-fold rise in pro-ACTH/endorphin synthetic rate, from birth to adulthood. In contrast, processing of pro-ACTH/endorphin in the newborn anterior lobe is not mature by birth. Both in vivo and in vitro newborn anterior pituitary corticotropes contain a large pool of pro-ACTH/endorphin, and a substantial amount of ACTH(1-39) is cleaved to ACTH(1-13)NH2 and CLIP. Surprisingly, the amount of ACTH(1-13)NH2 and beta-endorphin rises with increasing time in culture, but alpha-N-acetylation of ACTH(1-13)NH2 or beta-endorphin is not seen in the corticotropes. As in the adult, the synthesis of pro-ACTH/endorphin in newborn corticotropes is subject to regulation by CRF and glucocorticoids. In addition, glucocorticoid treatment of newborn corticotropes acts to suppress the cleavage of ACTH(1-39) to ACTH(1-13)NH2 and of beta-LPH to beta-endorphin, rendering the treated corticotropes more like the adult corticotropes. This plasticity in processing observed in the newborn corticotropes is not seen in the adult. It will be important to examine whether peptide processing patterns which are changed during this period of plasticity are permanently altered, and then what the consequences of those altered processing patterns might be.

The customary presentation of surgical procedures to patients in the United States consists of discussions on alternative treatment methods, risks of the procedure(s) under consideration, and potential benefits for the patient. Because the contents of the normal speech signal have not been defined in a way that permits a surgeon systematically to provide alternative auditory signals to a deaf patient, the burden is placed on the surgeon to make an arbitrary selection of candidates and available devices for cochlear prosthetic implantation. In an attempt to obtain some information regarding the ability of a deaf patient to use electrical signals to detect and understand speech, the Good Samaritan Hospital and Neurological Sciences Institute cochlear implant team has routinely performed tympanotomies using local anesthesia and has positioned temporary electrodes onto the round windows of implant candidates. The purpose of this paper is to review our experience with this procedure and to provide some observations that may be useful in a comprehensive preoperative evaluation for totally deaf patients who are being considered for cochlear implantation.
Vestibular function in cochlear implant candidates varies from normal to total absence of function. In patients with intact vestibular function preoperatively, invasion of the otic capsule places residual vestibular function at risk. Speech-processing strategies that result in large amplitude electrical transients or strategies that employ high amplitude broad frequency carrier signals have the potential for disrupting vestibular function. Five patients were tested with and without electrical stimulation via cochlear electrodes. Two patients experienced subjective vestibular effects that were quickly resolved. No long-term vestibular effects were noted for the two types of second generation cochlear implants evaluated. Histopathological findings from another patient, who had electrically generated vestibular reflex responses to intramodiolar electrodes, indicated that responses elicited were a function of several variables including electrode location, stimulus intensity, stimulus amplitude, and stimulus frequency. Differential auditory, vestibulocolic, and vestibulospinal reflexes were demonstrated from the same electrode as a function of stimulus amplitude, frequency, and duration.
There have been several notable recent trends in the area of learning and memory. Problems with the episodic/semantic distinction have become more apparent, and new efforts have been made (exemplar models, distributed-memory models) to represent general knowledge without assuming a separate semantic system. Less emphasis is being placed on stable, prestored prototypes and more emphasis on a flexible memory system that provides the basis for a multitude of categories or frames of reference, derived on the spot as tasks demand. There is increasing acceptance of the idea that mental models are constructed and stored in memory in addition to, rather than instead of, memorial representations that are more closely tied to perceptions. This gives rise to questions concerning the conditions that permit inferences to be drawn and mental models to be constructed, and to questions concerning the similarities and differences in the nature of the representations in memory of perceived and generated information and in their functions. There has also been a swing from interest in deliberate strategies to interest in automatic, unconscious (even mechanistic!) processes, reflecting an appreciation that certain situations (e.g. recognition, frequency judgements, savings in indirect tasks, aspects of skill acquisition, etc) seem not to depend much on the products of strategic, effortful or reflective processes. There is a lively interest in relations among memory measures and attempts to characterize memory representations and/or processes that could give rise to dissociations among measures. Whether the pattern of results reflects the operation of functional subsystems of memory and, if so, what the &quot;modules&quot; are is far from clear. This issue has been fueled by work with amnesics and has contributed to a revival of interaction between researchers studying learning and memory in humans and those studying learning and memory in animals. Thus, neuroscience rivals computer science as a source of interdisciplinary stimulation. Research on topics such as memory for spatial location, the relation between memory and affect, and autobiographical memory reminds us that general theories of memory based on studies of verbal materials alone are limited. Investigating how people remember complex natural events should provide us with a larger set of memory phenomena to explain and consequently insight into a wider range of memory principles or a deeper understanding of the ones we already accept (e.g. the role of repetition, encoding specificity), including their functional significance for human behavior.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The performance of statistical evoked-potential detection methods was compared with that of human observers and among themselves by means of receiver operating characteristics (ROC) curves. The test material was a collection of brain stem auditory-evoked responses obtained from 98 infants with 60 and 30 dB nHL clicks. The observers and the statistical methods had to discriminate these responses from control recordings obtained without acoustic stimulation. Although the observers' criteria on different days varied considerably, the discrimination capacity was more stable. The discrimination capacity depended on the observers' experience. The statistical methods tested were the correlation coefficient (CCR), the standard deviation ratio (SDR) and a new method named T2R. The most efficient detection method was T2R. For false-alarm rates of 0.01 the statistical methods were more efficient than the human observers. Signal detection theory is useful for the evaluation of evoked-potential analysis methods.

Sigmund Freud, the acclaimed founder of psychoanalysis, invested nine years of his early scientific effort investigating animal histology, cell biology and basic neuroscience prior to concentrating on human nervous and mental disorders. Through his histological studies Freud provided coherent evidence suggesting that the protoplasm consists of a contractile fibrillary network, the present-day cytoskeleton; he was one of the original founders of the fibrillary theory on the structure of the protoplasm. Concerning the biology of the cell nucleus, Freud appears to have been the first author who documented movements of nucleoli in nerve cells, a phenomenon presently referred to as nuclear rotation. In certain instances, Freud's observations antedate later views by more than half a century and are important to our current understanding of cell structure and basic processes of intracellular motility.
The bootstrap method, due to Bradley Efron, is a powerful, general method for estimating a variance or standard deviation by repeatedly resampling the given set of experimental data. The method is applied here to the problem of estimating the standard deviation of the estimated midpoint and spread of a sensory-performance function based on data sets comprising 15-25 trials. The performance of the bootstrap estimator was assessed in Monte Carlo studies against another general estimator obtained by the classical &quot;combination-of-observations&quot; or incremental method. The bootstrap method proved clearly superior to the incremental method, yielding much smaller percentage biases and much greater efficiencies. Its use in the analysis of sensory-performance data may be particularly appropriate when traditional asymptotic procedures, including the probit-transformation approach, become unreliable.
Total opioid peptide receptoractivity in human cerebrospinal fluid is measured in patients who are experiencing lower back pain. Desalted CSF is eluted from a C18 Sep-Pak and is subjected to a radioreceptorassay (RRA) that employs tritiated etorphin, which is a ligand that is effectively displaced by opioids from several different types of opioid receptors. Three clinical groups have significantly different endogenous levels of 2.4, 4.5, and 6.4 pmol of methionine enkephalin-equivalents per mL CSF. Those three levels indicate that more opioid activity is correlated with the amount of drug to relieve the patient's perception of pain. When the total opioid content exceeds an empirical threshold, the sample is further fractionated with gradient reversed phase HPLC, and the opioid receptoractivity in each HPLC fraction is measured to determine the characteristic pattern of those receptoractive opioid peptides present in that patient's CSF. Different HPLC RRA patterns are found for different clinical categories. A possible interpretation of these two different sets of data.is that a lesion exists in one or several of the opioid peptidergic systems (metabolism, receptors) in this particular patient population.
The water content of samples of normal and oedematous brain in lobectomy specimens from 16 patients with cerebral tumours has been measured by gravimetry and by wet and dry weighing. Uncorrected gravimetry underestimated the water content of oedematous peritumoural cortex by a mean of 1.17%, and of oedematous peritumoural white matter by a mean of 2.52%. Gravimetric correction equations calculated theoretically and from an animal model of serum infusion white matter oedema overestimate peritumoural white matter oedema in man, and empirical gravimetric error correction factors for oedematous peritumoural human white matter and cortex have therefore been derived. These enable gravimetry to be used to accurately determine peritumoural oedema in man.
This study of the pharmacokinetics of TCNU, a new nitrosourea, in the rodent has shown that TCNU concentrations in the plasma (ng/ml) and brain (ng/g) are equivalent from 15 min to 4 hours after drug administration. The absolute levels of TCNU obtained with a dose of 100 mg TCNU/kg bodyweight were at most time points, three to four times those obtained with dosage of 25 mg TCNU/kg. The profile of rodent plasma TCNU levels following drug administration is similar to that recorded in humans, with peak TCNU concentrations occurring around 45 min. Since TCNU crosses an intact blood brain barrier (BBB), and clinical Phase I trials have shown it to possess potent antitumour properties. It may be a useful agent in the management of primary and secondary cerebral neoplasia.
L-Dopa therapy, like thalamotomy, is capable of suppressing some of the symptoms of Parkinsonism but is not a cure. The side effects of L-Dopa therapy can prove as incapacitating as the original symptoms of Parkinsonism. There remains a place for thalamotomy in the treatment of selected cases where symptoms are mainly localised, particularly to the non-dominant limbs, and it has also shown itself to be effective in suppressing dyskinetic movements due to L-Dopa.
In a 5-year period during which 7,178 patients with head injury were admitted to a regional head injury unit, 191 motorcyclists (2.7%) were admitted with head injuries of which 76% were classified as minor, 6% as moderate and 18% as severe (in coma). Two thirds of the patients were aged 20 years or less. Eighty-two riders (43%) had some form of facial or scalp trauma and 37 (19%) sustained skull fracture. Intracranial haematomas requiring surgical evacuation were detected in 3 of the minor head injuries (2%), 2 of the moderate injuries (17%) and 11 of the severely head injured patients (32%). Twenty-nine of the 34 severely injured patients were managed using artificial ventilation and intracranial pressure monitoring. The remaining patients died before these measures could be instituted. Overall mortality was 7%, but deaths were restricted to the severely head injured, among whom there were 13 fatalities. Head injuries associated with motorcycle riding include an unduly high proportion of severe cases and occur in a young population, often within a short time of starting to ride a motorcycle. Protective headgear was virtually always worn (94%); to reduce morbidity further, increased training and supervision during the first 6 months of motorcycle ownership should be emphasized.
A clinico-electroencephalographic study on 14 cases of the early-infantile epileptic encephalopathy with suppression-burst (EIEE) including long-term follow-up studies for one year 8 months to 12 years 2 months disclosed the specificity of EIEE in its developmental aspects. With age, clinical evolution from EIEE to the West syndrome was observed in as many as 10 cases, among which two cases showed further transition to the Lennox-Gastaut syndrome. Electroencephalographically, suppression-burst pattern gradually began to disappear from age of 3 months and disappeared by 6 months in all the cases, transforming to hypsarhythmia in 10 cases from 2 to 6 months of age, showing further transition to diffuse slow spike-and-waves in 2 cases at one year and one month and at 3 years and one month of age, respectively. Changing pattern of EEG were classifiable into two types which strongly related to the prognosis. These findings indicated EIEE to be an independent epileptic syndrome as the earliest form of the age-dependent epileptic encephalopathy.
Cells obtained on culture from normal appearing skin (NFns) and from neurofibromas of neurofibromatosis patients (NFnf), and from normal skin of normal donors (Normal) were studied. We measured the growth rate, maximal cell density, radiation sensitivity and resistance to 3-nitrotyrosine of each of the three groups of strains. The growth rate and maximal cell density of fibroblasts derived from neurofibromas of the neurofibromatosis patients were significantly lower than those in normal donors. The neurofibromatosis cells showed no X-ray hypersensitivity, as compared to normal controls. We also did not observe resistance to 3-nitrotyrosine of the cells derived from normal appearing skin of the neurofibromatosis patients. However, cells derived from neurofibromas of the neurofibromatosis patients showed resistance to 3-nitrotyrosine. This phenomenon may explain the slow growth rate of the latter cells.
Although patients with Alzheimer disease have a well-demonstrated deficit in cortical cholinergic markers, treatments designed to enhance cholinergic activity in the central nervous system have not achieved the clinical success of dopamine replacement for Parkinson disease. A brief review of recent clinical reports and some developments in the neurosciences suggests that it may be premature, however, to abandon the search for benefit from cholinergic enhancement therapy in Alzheimer disease.

Two groups of adult cats were chiasmotomized and their cortical receptive fields (17-18 boundary) were compared after a postoperative period of ca 6 weeks. In one group, binocular vision was maintained during that period, in the other one, one eye was sutured at the time of the chiasmotomy, depriving one hemisphere from patterned vision through the direct pathway. In monocular chiasmotomized animals, the receptive fields to stimulation of the contralateral eye were significantly larger than in the binocular ones.
A spinal &quot;respiration&quot; generator has been shown to fire phrenic motoneurones in rhythmic bursts. It is very likely driven through bulbo-spinal inspiratory neurones in intact preparations. Although no direct evidence for respiratory interneurones at the C4-C5 spinal levels has been obtained so far (except for Renshaw cells ), it is currently believed that only few inspiratory inputs to the phrenic motoneurones are transmitted monosynaptically from the medulla. We have tried here to record spinal interneuronal respiratory activities in decorticate, unanaesthetized, vagotomized and curarized rabbit preparations. Different functional categories of interneurones could be identified at the C4-C5 spinal levels: inspiratory and expiratory interneurons with various discharge patterns which rather well correspond to the functional categories of inspiratory and expiratory bulbo-spinal neurones described by Bianchi and Richter. In addition, multiunit inspiratory bursting could be followed over several 100 microns during each electrode penetration. The different categories of interneurones were encountered laterally from 700 to 1,000 microns, at depths ranging from 300 to 500 microns dorsally to the phrenic nucleus, down to the nucleus itself. These results indicate that part of the medullary inspiratory drive is channelled via spinal cord interneurones; they also suggest that an inhibition of phrenic motoneurones from the bulbo-spinal expiratory drive takes place via interneurones.
Among patients referred for areactive depression who were polygraphically recorded after at least 2 weeks without any pharmacological treatment, some were found to present qualitative sleep symptoms similar to those already described in clinically diagnosed parkinsonian patients. A therapeutic trail with a dopamine agonist (Piribedil) was followed, in all of these patients, by a dramatic and rapid improvement of mood. As compared to areactive depressive patients whose sleep recordings were free of these qualitative abnormalities, some quantitative sleep criteria, mainly related to REM sleep, permit to diagnose this group of dopamine dependent depression (DDD). These data, together with the beneficial effect of Piribedil, favor a role of DA in the genesis of this type of depression. Some clinical signs now appear as sufficient to diagnose these DDD. The interest of this study is that all the patients (now 48), among whom no clinical parkinsonian symptoms were found, diagnosed according to the reported polygraphic criteria were cured following this treatment.
Investigations using double labeling by axonal transport of tracers have shown that in the rat, four nuclei of the anterior thalamus (anterior dorsal, anterior ventral, lateral anterior, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis) that project to the CA1 region of the hippocampus also receive a discrete input from the contralateral eye. The significance of this telencephalic visual pathway is discussed in a phylogenetic context.
The organization of retinal projections were examined in the flatfish Scophthalmus maximus using the autoradiographic technique. Overall 15 different contralateral primary optic centers were identified at hypothalamic, thalamo-pretectal, tectal and tegmento-mesencephalic levels. A weak ipsilateral retinal contingent was also observed. Elsewhere, the retinal projections of the migrating eye in comparison to those of the non-migrating eye were observed to be similar.

We report a developmental sequence in the type and frequency of behaviours of neurons differentiating in vitro. We characterised these changes with extensive analysis of time-lapse sequences from both the continuing cell line pheochromocytoma PC12 and primary mixed cell culture of cat and mouse central nervous system. PC12 cells activated by nerve growth factor (NGF) differentiate in a uniform and synchronous manner. This allowed the first quantification of changes in different neuron behaviours during morphogenesis. Shortly after NGF activation, PC12 cells are highly labile in morphology and exhibit a large variety of morphological behaviours. During the first week of differentiation, the frequency of these behaviours declines, and gross morphology becomes more stable. The frequency of neurite initiation after 1 week in NGF is one-seventh what it was after 2 days in NGF. Over the same period, neurite retraction declines to one-third, and somal migration ceases altogether. Growth-cone activity does not decline during development. These behaviour changes correlate with published data on the differentiation of the neurite cytoskeleton. A qualitatively similar ontogeny was noted in the differentiation of CNS neurons in mixed cell culture. Major differences occur in the relative timing of changes in behaviours. Mature, stable morphology is not detected in these cultures until 7 weeks in vitro.



The clinical presentation and pathological characteristics of 18 histologically verified meningiomas in the paediatric age group are reviewed. There was a 1:1 sex ratio. Two children presented with seizures. The majority were supratentorial in location and large in size. In 4 patients, the meningiomas showed sarcomatous changes, while in 6 patients they were cystic.
The generation and control of reaching in space is a function of several structures, cortical and subcortical. This paper summarizes some principles of the cortical mechanisms subserving this function, as revealed by recording the impulse activity of neurons in motor cortex and area 5 of the posterior parietal cortex in behaving monkeys. Large populations of neurons in these cortical areas are engaged in reaching. This engagement is early in time; for example, cell activity in the motor cortex begins to change 60-80 ms after target onset, and slightly later in area 5. The time course of cell recruitment in the active population is very similar for reaching movements of equal amplitude directed to different targets. In contrast, the intensity of cell discharge in both motor and parietal cortex is clearly modulated with respect to the direction of reaching. Typically, the firing rate is a cosine function of the direction of the movement in space. An unambiguous distributed code for the direction of reaching exists in neuronal populations in the cortical areas studied. The outcome of this population code can be visualized as a vector in neural space that points in the direction of the upcoming movement.
The neocortical motor areas of monkeys were discovered by epicortical electrical stimulation. Ferrier in 1875 drew non-overlapping circles for face, limbs and tail. His 'centres' were postcentral as well as precentral. In the 1880s Horsley added an arm and face area on the medical surface (where Penfield's supplementary motor area is now ensconced). At the turn of the century the newborn science of cortical architectonics discovered striking differences between precentral and postcentral areas. Sherrington got no responses from the postcentral gyrus of apes. At mid-century, however, Woolsey reinstated the postcentral motor map (his Sm 1). The discrepancies between these classical maps could probably be explained by sensitivity to levels of anaesthesia and to arbitrarily chosen configurations of stimuli whose intracortical actions remained obscure. Some of the modes of action of epicortical stimulation have since been worked out. These are relevant to the results of electrical and magnetic stimulation of the human brain through scalp and skull. Today's research is differentiating the functions of the precentral and postcentral areas (4, 6PM, 6SMA, 3a, 3b, 1): at the microscopic level, by studies of sampled neurons whose discharges can be related to specific components of learnt motor performances, and whose connectivities can be traced by electroanatomical and microscopical labelling of their perikarya, axons and synapses; at the macroscopic level, by studies of Bereitschaftspotential and regional cerebral metabolism in motor performances in intact humans.
A young boy presented with mental retardation and seizures with extensive hairy naevi. After a fluctuating clinical course over the next 2 years, he worsened rapidly with signs of rising intracranial pressure. A CT scan revealed unsuspected features of Dandy-Walker syndrome. The clinical course is traced till the patient's death, and the implications of the coexistence of these rare conditions are discussed in view of the proposed hypotheses regarding the pathogenesis of Dandy-Walker syndrome.
1. Different chemical procedures such as performic oxidation, carboxymethylation, carboxyethylation, aminoethylation, cyanylation, acylation, arylation etc. and addition of thiols to activated double bonds, titration of thiols with DTNB (Dithiobis-Nitro-Benzoate) and the reaction of thiols with organomercurials and the titration with p-chloro-mercuri-benzoate (PCMB) etc. are cited and discussed. Their chemical reactions are shown in the figures. 2. We describe in this paper that several chemicals interfere with microtubule assembly by combining with sulfhydryl residues. Reagents such as Cytochalasin-A and B, ethylacetylacrylate, FDNB (fluorodinitrobenzene), NEM (N-ethyl-maleimide), diamide, EBI (ethylene-bis-iodoacetamide, ethacrynic acid, methal ions, methylmercury, triethyllead ion and CDDP (cis-dichlorodiammine-platinum-II) are cited and their mechanisms are discussed.
A multi-disciplinary approach is described for the development of a microcomputer based on-line data collection system for blood flow experiments. Well designed software provides a flexible approach to data collection, which is particularly suited to blood flow research laboratories. The choice of well supported hardware ensures ease of development with minimum time and cost.
The EMG of the gut smooth muscle plays an important role in the regulation of gastrointestinal motility in health and disease. The EMG in general consists of an omnipresent oscillatory electrical control activity (ECA) and spikes or other potentials that result in contractions of the smooth muscle. This paper addresses the question of how the ECA signals can best be processed and how inappropriate transformations of such signals may produce misleading results. The various factors affecting the composition of the gut EMG, in time and space along the gut, are discussed briefly. The need for the analysis of the ECA for its oscillatory nature is mentioned together with details regarding the widely used visual, period, and Fourier analysis techniques. Fourier analysis techniques have been applied with increasing frequency to gut EMG; the various features of Fourier analysis and considerations for their implementation on the computer are discussed. The visual, period, and Fourier analysis approaches as well as their uses and limitations in application to a variety of ECAs of the stomach and of the colon in dogs and humans are illustrated. This study indicates that period analysis techniques are well suited for the study of the visibly oscillatory upper gut EMG, while smoothed spectral analysis is more appropriate for the study of colonic EMG.
In this study, we examined the neurochemical profiles of selected brain regions (cerebral hemispheres, diencephalon/brainstem) in fetal (day 14 to 18 gestation) trisomy 19 (Ts19) mice. The neurochemical characteristics we observed in Ts19 mice were quite different from those we observed previously in Ts16 mice. Choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activity was reduced significantly in the cerebral hemispheres, but not in the brainstem/diencephalon, of the fetal Ts19 mouse brain, suggesting a selective vulnerability of telencephalic cholinergic neurons. Additionally, the activity of glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) was reduced significantly in both hemispheres and diencephalon/brainstem of late gestation Ts19 fetuses, suggesting a selective vulnerability of GABAergic neurons as well. While the levels of catecholaminergic and dopaminergic markers were reduced significantly at late gestational ages, the relative rate of turnover of dopamine (DA), measured by the ratio of DOPAC/DA, was elevated significantly in Ts19 mice. Neither reduction in the thickness of various cellular zones of the cerebral cortex nor reduced cell density of the cerebral cortex accounts for the alterations in neurochemical parameters observed in Ts19 mice. These results suggest that the effects of the triplication of specific genes on the respective chromosomes, rather than a generalized disruption of developmental homeostasis resulting from extra chromosomal material, may produce selective alterations in neurochemical and neuroanatomical markers observed in these two mouse trisomies.
Previous analyses of experimental chick embryos of normal lineage demonstrate the inability of brachial muscles to sustain a successful union with foreign nerves derived from a thoracic neural tube segment transplanted to the brachial region at day 2 in ovo (day 2E). The present experiments were performed to determine if mutant chick embryos afflicted with hereditary muscular dystrophy would respond similarly to this experimental manipulation. Using the same criteria applied to our analysis of experimental normal embryos, our results demonstrated that dystrophic brachial muscles were capable of maintaining a compatible union with foreign thoracic nerves throughout the experimental period analysed. Significant muscle growth occurred, intramuscular nerve branches were maintained, motor endplates formed and wing motility was equivalent to that of unoperated dystrophic embryos. Thus, foreign nerves rejected by normal brachial muscles were accepted by brachial muscles of the mutant dystrophic embryo.














Recent studies of cerebral metabolism have suggested that although cerebral blood flow is reduced during rest in the healthy aged brain, there is little or no decline in resting glucose consumption. Intercorrelations between resting regional cerebral rates for glucose (rCMRglc), as determined by positron emission tomography using [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose, were shown to provide a measure of the functional associativity of brain regions. Partial correlation coefficients, controlling for whole brain glucose metabolism, were used in the analysis. Dividing the brain into 59 regions, we found, for 40 healthy males (21-83 years in age) in a state of reduced sensory input, that the strongest correlations generally were between bilaterally symmetric brain regions, and that there were many statistically significant correlations (P less than 0.01) among frontal and parietal lobe regions and also among temporal and occipital lobe areas, but few significant correlations between these two domains. The correlation analysis then was applied to two groups (15 healthy males each) of young (20-32 years old) and elderly (64-83 years old) subjects in the same resting state. Compared with the young group, we found that the elderly subjects have fewer statistically significant (P less than 0.01) correlations, with the most noteworthy reductions being between parietal and frontal lobe regions, and among parietal lobe areas. These findings indicated that cerebral functional interactions were reduced in the healthy elderly. The same analysis, applied to 21 mainly mildly-to-moderately impaired presumed Alzheimer subjects (and 21 age-matched controls), revealed fewer significant correlations between homologous brain regions which correspond to metabolic asymmetries linked to neuropsychological deficiencies.
Human alpha-L-fucosidase, a lysosomal enzyme, hydrolyzes alpha-L-fucose from glycolipids and glycoproteins. Its activity is deficient in human fucosidosis an autosomal recessive disease. In order to understand the molecular basis of this lysosomal storage disorder we have cloned several cDNAs coding for human alpha-L-fucosidase from a human hepatoma and a human liver cDNA library constructed in lambda gt11. Compiling the cDNA sequences of these clones we have identified 1,829 base pairs (bp) encoding human alpha-L-fucosidase. This includes an open reading frame of 1,172 bp, a consensus polyadenylation signal AAT AAA and a poly(A)+ tail. The sequence is incomplete at the 5'-end, and clones encoding the amino terminus of the native protein, the propeptide and leader signal have not yet been isolated. The open reading frame encodes for 390 amino acids with a calculated Mr of 45,557. This represents 78-95% of the mature processed alpha-L-fucosidase. The availability of these cDNA clones has enabled us to map the structural gene for alpha-L-fucosidase to chromosome 1p34.1-1p36.1 by Southern blot analysis of DNA from human-rodent somatic cell hybrids and by in situ hybridization. Furthermore, a Pvu II restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) has been identified at the human alpha-L-fucosidase gene locus. Analysis of mRNA by Northern blotting gives a major species of 2.25 kb. In 4 patients with fucosidosis no mRNA signal was detected and Western blots gave no immunoreactive enzyme. Southern blotting after Eco RI digestion in two fucosidosis families revealed a banding abnormality (extra 6-kb band).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The retrogradely transported fluorescent tracers True Blue and Diamidino Yellow were compared. They were found similar in the following respects: spread at injection sites; uptake from fibres of passage; fading of fluorescence and absence of retrograde transneuronal transport. Their fluorescence properties were, however, dissimilar and this, rather than differences in their sensitivity or efficiency, appears to account for their differences in respect of the intensities of fluorescence in such labelled neurones.
The relative contribution of specific and unspecific (potassium) components involved in the generation of primary afferent depolarization (PAD) of cutaneous fibres was analyzed in the spinal cord of the anesthetized cat. To this end we examined the correlation between the intraspinal threshold changes of single afferent fibres in the sural nerve produced by segmental and descending inputs and the negative DC potential shifts produced by these same stimuli at the site of excitability testing, the latter taken as indicators of the changes in extracellular concentration of potassium ions. Stimulation of the ipsilateral brain-stem reticular formation and of the contralateral red nucleus with 100-200 Hz trains reduced very effectively the intraspinal threshold of sural nerve fibres ending in the dorsal horn practically without producing any negative DC potential shifts at the site of excitability testing. However, negative DC potential shifts were produced more ventrally, in the intermediate nucleus and/or motor nucleus. Stimulation of the sural and superficial peroneus nerves with pulses at 2 Hz and strengths below 2 xT, also reduced the intraspinal threshold of single SU fibres without producing significant DC potential changes at the site of excitability testing. On the other hand, 100 Hz trains with strengths above 2 xT produced negative DC potential shifts and a proportional reduction of the intraspinal threshold of the SU fibres. The PAD of sural fibres produced by stimulation of rubro-spinal and reticulo-spinal fibres as well as by stimulation of sensory nerves with low frequency trains was unaffected or slightly increased, by i.v. injection of strychnine (0.2 mg/kg), but was readily abolished 5-10 min after the i.v. injection of picrotoxin (2 mg/kg). The results suggest that activation of reticulo-spinal and rubro-spinal fibres, as well as stimulation of cutaneous nerves with low frequencies and low strengths, produce PAD of cutaneous fibres involving activation of specific interneuronal pathways with interposed last-order GABAergic interneurons. The potassium component of the PAD produced by cutaneous fibres becomes dominant with high stimulus frequencies and strengths.

A case of hemiballismus is reported. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed a cavernous hemangioma in the mesencephalon. The hemiballismus in the biceps and triceps muscles was associated with prolonged bursts of EMG activity.
1. The effects of 11 calcium antagonists on (Na+ + K+)-ATPase, Mg2+-ATPase and Ca2+-ATPase activities of rat cortical synaptosomes were studied. 2. All the calcium antagonists studied had inhibitory effects on ouabain-sensitive (Na+ + K+)-ATPase, Mg2+-ATPase and Ca2+-ATPase activities in synaptosomes at high concentrations (10 or 100 microM). 3. Calcium antagonists such as trifluoperazine, flunarizine and cinnarizine had inhibitory effects on Ca2+-ATPase activity at low concentrations (1-10 microM). 4. Trifluoperazine and La3+ had inhibitory effects on Mg2+-ATPase activity at low concentration (1 microM). 5. Our results suggest that most of the calcium antagonists studied have little effects on neuronal (Na+ + K+)-ATPase, Mg2+-ATPase and Ca2+-ATPase activities at therapeutic dose ranges (1 microM or lower).
43 patients aged over 55 years with different clinical diagnoses but with the common aspect of impairment of the cognitive functions underwent a 0.5 Tesla magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) investigation in order to obtain further information about the pathological causes underlying the clinical syndromes. The occurrence of white matter signal alterations (periventricular lucency) and of multifocal ischemic areas represented the most frequent and atypical finding. Independently of the clinical focal symptomatology, these data might well represent a marker of a diffuse tissue sufferance due to a chronic mild cerebral hypoperfusion. The incidence of similar findings in 'normal' elderly subjects must be assessed before giving them a definite relevance in the evaluation of the pathological aging.

We have previously demonstrated by the integration of EEG amplitudes, that an ultradian rhythm of alternating cerebral dominance exists in humans. This rhythm is tightly coupled with the nasal cycle, since its lateralization correlates with shifts in airflow through the left and right nostrils, where relatively greater integrated amplitudes in one hemisphere correspond to predominant airflow in the contralateral nostril. The nasal cycle is known to be regulated by the sympathetic and parasympathetic branches of the autonomic nervous system. This dynamic lateralization of alternating activity in the autonomic nervous system exists in other peripheral structures and is also likely to be the mode of regulation of the cortical rhythm. This paper shows that forced nostril breathing in one nostril produces a relative increase in the EEG amplitude in the contralateral hemisphere. This phenomena was demonstrated in 5 out of 5 untrained subjects. These results suggest the possibility of a non-invasive approach in the treatment of states of psychopathology where lateralized cerebral dysfunction have been shown to occur.
44 subjects with Obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD) and 40 normals were compared using an experimental paradigm involving recording of the bereitschaftspotential. A decreased onset latency and increased amplitude was found in the OCD sample as compared to normals. A neurophysiological substrate for the bereitschaftspotential has been proposed. The implications of these findings in OCD as compared to Gilles de la Tourette syndrome, and for a focal neuro-physiological dysfunction have also been discussed. The findings of this study implicate a dysfunction in complex motor programming in OCD, with the possibility of this dysfunction being in the prefrontal area.
1. The main synaptosomal membrane phospholipids and their acyl group profiles, from 3-4 month-old spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR), were compared with those of age-matched normotensive Wistar Kyoto (WKY) rats. 2. The contents of the main or total phospholipids were not found to be significantly different between these two groups. It was also true for the membrane cholesterol contents in these two groups. 3. The acyl groups of the main phospholipids from hypertensive rats were significantly higher in the saturated fatty acids: such as palmitic acid or stearic acid, and lower in polyunsaturated fatty acids: such as undecylenic acid or docosahexaenoic acid, when compared to the corresponding normotensive controls. 4. The differences in the acyl group profile of the brain membrane phospholipids of the hypertensive rats seem to reflect an abnormality in the genetically related lipolytic process.
1. Anticonvulsants: phenytoin, phenobarbital, carbamazepine and valium at concentrations of 10-100 microM had a significantly inhibitory effect on both K+-stimulated Ca2+-uptake and 32Pi incorporation into phospholipids of rat cortical synaptosomes. 2. Other anticonvulsant, valproic acid, at concentration upto 100 microM had no effect on these two events. 3. Our results suggest that there is a link between Ca2+-influx and polyphosphoinositide turnover in synaptosomes, and this link may relate to the inhibitory effect of these drugs on neurotransmitter release mechanisms of this preparation.

In primary cultures of dissociated cells from 6-day-old rat cerebellum, astrocytes proliferated and grew under the initially formed network of neurons. The growing astrocytes invaded the culture growth surface, while the neurons detached from the substratum and died. By 8 days after plating a confluent layer of astrocytes has taken over the entire growth surface area and neurons have disappeared. Membrane fractions prepared from astrocytes of 8-day-old cultures, have led to detachment of growing neurons. After 2 days in the presence of membrane fractions, about 70% of the neurons disappeared and many of the remaining ones had detached or retracted processes. The results indicate that the well-known phenomenon of disappearance of neurons from mixed primary CNS cultures, is probably caused by a membrane-associated activity of the proliferating astrocytes which can disturb neuron-substratum attachments. Our in vitro study implies that astrocytes may have a membrane-associated activity which is expressed under certain conditions and can disturb the contacts of growing or regenerating axons with their growth substrata.

One hundred and six consecutively seen psychiatric patients who had undergone detailed evaluation had their diagnosis compared with that arrived at in a walk-in evaluation one week to one month prior to the index evaluation. There was a diagnostic change in 21 cases and a change in drugs in 14. The pitfalls of this method for administering rapid efficient psychiatric care in countries with inadequate psychiatric manpower are highlighted.

Drawing on concepts and data from psychoanalysis, neuroscience, ethology, and experimental psychology, this paper suggests that affects are the prime movers of human motivation and have, in addition, these properties: they are neurophysiologically generated, sensationlike signals originating not in classical sensory systems, but in limbic structures; activation of the neurobiologic affect generators reliably triggers motor stereotype--like facial expression, posture, and tone of voice--which in turn transmit the physical data underlying empathy and emotional communication; and appetitively sought pleasant emotions-sensations and aversive dysphoric feelings serve respectively as the ultimate, &quot;brain-synthesized&quot; positive and negative reinforcers of emotional learning. The latter ideas point to derivative hypotheses: that parental nonverbal behavior and communication evoke in children the affects that guide character development and choice of defense, and that these processes are consistent with an affect-reinforced associative learning model comprising both operant and classical conditioning paradigms. Psychoanalysis as therapy, then, may mechanistically rely for its clinical effectiveness on extinctionlike processes in which new experience in the analyst-patient relationship leads to the modulation or extinction of initially crippling signal affects associatively linked to various other affects, appetites, and behaviors. Finally, the core hypotheses mesh both with recent findings from the cellular study of affect and learning mechanisms and with associative learning-unlearning assumptions variably explicit in psychoanalytic writings since the time of Freud's (1895) Project.
The Neurological Information Network (NIN) of the National Institute of Neurological and Communicative Disorders and Stroke (NINCDS) was a loosely structured assemblage of a variety of information-transfer activities that existed for approximately 20 years, starting in the early 1960s. These activities included the Neurosciences Research Program at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, the Parkinson's Disease Information Center at Columbia University, the Brain Information Service at UCLA, the Information Center for Hearing, Speech, and Disorders of Human Communication at the Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions, the Clinical Neurology Information Center at the University of Nebraska, the Cerebrovascular Disease Abstracts generated at the Mayo Foundation and appearing in the journal Stroke, and Epilepsy Abstracts published by Excerpta Medica. The article discusses primarily the sociopolitical factors that govern the creation and life of activities of the type enumerated.
We studied voltage-sensitive and Na-dependent Ca2+ flux into synaptosomes as well as Na-dependent influx in cardiac sarcolemmal vesicles. Rapid, voltage-sensitive 45Ca2+ influx into synaptosomes is blocked by cadmium (IC50 1 microM) and the novel peptide toxin omega-conotoxin GVIA (30% of uptake blocked by 50 pM toxin), but not by dihydropyridine and phenylalkylamine calcium antagonists, even though [3H]dihydropyridines and [3H]phenylalkylamines bind to synaptosomes. The toxin also blocks voltage-sensitive neurotransmitter release from synaptosomes. Sodium-dependent Ca2+ flux into synaptosomes and cardiac sarcolemmal vesicles is inhibited by selected antihistamines, neuroleptics, and tricyclic antidepressants. We can elicit neurotransmitter release from synaptosomes by changing the Na gradient; this neurotransmitter release is absolutely Ca2+-dependent and blocked by Na+/Ca2+ exchange inhibitors, thereby suggesting that physiological neurotransmitter release may have a Na+/Ca2+ exchange component. More potent Na+/Ca2+ exchange inhibitors may have cardiovascular roles as inotropic agents or antagonists of calcium-related injury to cardiomyocytes during reperfusion or other disease states.

The use of ethological, along with morphological data is presented as a general realistic approach to the understanding of the vertebrate nervous system. While the brain/body size relation, either in ontogeny or phylogeny, is still a mandatory method for describing brain evolution, the interpretation of the allometry equation remains subject to difficulties. A mixed quantitative-qualitative relationship between brain and behaviour is defined through the new concept of cociation. Results based on this approach are presented for a number of mammals having a broad variety of sizes and life-habits. The necessity of using brain components, and not only total brains, is emphasized. The functional aspects of relative brain and brain component size, especially with reference to metabolism and behaviour, are commented upon. These aspects require a cautious handling of the causality principle, and a particular conception of progress in brain evolution. The study of brain components in a functional perspective has been characterized, in recent years, by remarkable advances in modular morphology. These are summarized and it is suggested that they might lend themselves to especially significant behavioural correlations. A hypothetical model for a two-level brain, involving both redundancy and configurations, and consistent with a neuroethological approach, is recommended as a potentially promising direction for future progress in brain morphology, in ecological and behavioural perspectives.

In order to determine whether the in vitro ability of the pineal indoleamine hormone, melatonin, to modulate binding at the GABA-benzodiazepine receptor complex is operative in vivo we have examined the effects of chronic melatonin administration on 3H-GABA and 3H-diazepam binding in rat brain. Melatonin was injected daily in increasing doses for three weeks and animals were sacrificed at 2 or 26 hours after the final injection. A melatonin-induced enhancement of 3H-GABA binding was observed in both single-point and saturation binding experiments. Scatchard analysis of 3H-diazepam binding revealed a melatonin-induced increase in binding affinity at 26 hours in the forebrain and at 2 hours in the cerebellum with no significant changes in binding site concentration. These findings are consistent with the proposal that melatonin's psychopharmacological effects are due at least in part to its ability to enhance central GABAergic transmission by modulating GABA receptor activity.
Patterns or regional cerebral metabolism and neuropsychological function were studied longitudinally in 10 mildly demented patients with dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT) and compared to those of moderately demented patients and controls. As reported previously (Haxby et al., 1986), the mildly demented patients initially had significant neocortical metabolic abnormalities, namely parietal reductions and right-left asymmetries, but did not differ from controls on any test of neocortically-mediated visuospatial and language functions. Right-left metabolic asymmetries correlated with neuropsychological discrepancies between visuospatial and language function in moderately demented but not mildly demented patients. We now report that longitudinal studies of these mildly demented patients showed significant decline of nonmemory cognitive function. Moreover, correlations of metabolic asymmetries with neuropsychological discrepancies between visuospatial and language functions became significant. These longitudinal results confirm our previous conclusion that neocortical metabolic abnormalities precede neocortically-mediated neuropsychological impairments in early DAT.
Protein kinase C has been proposed by the author to play a pivotal role in the storage of information. Its activation is directly related to synaptic potentiation as is phosphorylation of certain substrates such as protein F1. Protein F1 is found in highest concentration in those regions of temporal cortex critical for storage of information. The possibility is raised that pathology of this protein kinase C/protein F1 endogenous phosphorylation system may lead to or is responsible for the memory loss of Alzheimer's disease.
Amino acidergic neurons in the cerebral cortex are the most abundant neuronal types. The inhibitory amino acid, GABA, is the neurotransmitter of many cortical interneurons, particularly those in layers III and IV of cerebral cortex. The excitatory amino acids, glutamate and aspartate, are the likely neurotransmitters of corticofugal, corticocortical association and hippocampal pyramidal neurons. In dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT), there is only mild to moderate loss of GABAergic neurons and there is only a mild reduction in postsynaptic GABAA receptors. The unique bicuculline-insensitive baclofen-sensitive GABAB receptor is affected in DAT and is reduced by about 60-70% in outer layers of cerebral cortex and hippocampus. Presynaptic markers of glutamate neurons (glutamate levels and glutamate sodium-dependent binding) are reduced 25-80% in cortex and hippocampus of DAT brain. Likewise, glutamate postsynaptic receptors, particularly the NMDA-sensitive receptor, are markedly reduced in DAT cortex and hippocampus. These alterations suggest that glutamatergic pyramidal cells are especially vulnerable in DAT brain.

Events leading to and the influences on the founding of the American Society for Neurochemistry are recounted, with emphasis on early activities of neurochemists in the United States, as well as the international activities, that led to the founding of both the International and American societies (in 1965 and 1969, respectively). The founding of the American Society for Neurochemistry in the period 1968-1969 and its first annual meeting in 1970 are described, together with significant developments during the early years of the Society.
For the purpose of injection of anatomical tracers, it is desirable to have a surgical approach which provides the most direct approach to the target structure. This minimizes the amount of neural tissue that must be transgressed, and hence the leakage of tracer along the tract and the potential undesirable labelling that may result from this. In addition, visual guidance is preferable to stereotaxic guidance of injections where possible, particularly in situations where the target structure is far removed from the ear bar zero coordinate. Some of our work has necessitated small, discrete injections in the inferior olive sparing the adjacent reticular formation. The ventral transcervical approach to the medulla which was developed for this purpose is described below. It may conceivably be of use to physiologists wishing to record from ventral medullary structures. We feel it is a useful technique, but one which those with little surgical experience might not attempt. It is hoped that our description may guide others who could benefit by this approach.
The present study examined trophic activities in normal and injured brain which affect the survival and growth of central neurons in culture. Adult rats received bilateral lesions through the angular bundle, severing projections between the entorhinal cortex and the hippocampus. Ten days later, extracts were prepared from the entorhinal or hippocampal regions of the injured brains and compared with extract prepared from analogous regions of normal brains for trophic activities in cultures of either entorhinal or septal tissues. At least three activities were observed: (1) a trophic activity which bound to polylysine-treated wells, which was greater than 10,000 Da in size, heat labile, and sensitive to trypsin, and which supported the survival of both septal and entorhinal neurons in culture; (2) a trophic activity which did not bind to polylysine-treated wells, which was greater than 10,000 Da in size, heat labile, and sensitive to trypsin, and which, in the presence of polylysine-bindable material, facilitated the survival and growth of entorhinal cells in culture, and (3) an inhibitory activity which significantly reduced survival in entorhinal cultures when cells were plated in the presence of high concentrations of extract prepared from normal brain. These effects were not due to nonspecific effects of plating the cells in, or treating the wells with, large amounts of protein. A significant injury-related increase in non-polylysine-bindable trophic activity was also observed. Extracts prepared from either the hippocampus or the entorhinal area of the injured brains contained more non-polylysine-bindable trophic activity than extract prepared from normal brains. Injury-related changes in trophic activities were more prominent in entorhinal than in septal cultures. This increase in activity may account for the injury-related effects on the survival of entorhinal transplants reported previously [Gibbs and Cotman: Neuroscience (in press) 1987], and may represent an endogenous mechanism by which the brain attempts to selectively support the survival of injured cells following injury.
Techniques for selective isolation, labeling, stimulation, and destruction of ameboid microglia allow study of some fundamental questions in neuroimmunology. Examination of surface morphology, proliferative capacity, and cytochemistry suggests that microglia are a class of brain mononuclear phagocytes distinct from blood monocytes, spleen macrophages, or resident peritoneal macrophages. Moreover, cultured ameboid microglia isolated from newborn brain can be induced to grow thin cytoplasmic projections several hundred microns in length; these process-bearing cells resemble a differentiated form of microglia found in adult brain. Ameboid microglia may contribute to brain inflammation by engulfing debris, by releasing cytotoxins, by killing neighboring cells, and by secreting astroglial growth factors. Importantly, ameboid microglia are closely tied to a network of immunomodulators that include colony-stimulating factors and Interleukin-1. The presence of activated microglia during normal embryogenesis and at sites of penetrating brain injury suggests that these cells serve as important effectors linking the immune system with growth and repair of the CNS.

The physiology of somatic sensation can be investigated noninvasively in man by recording the electric activity of peripheral nerves, spinal cord and brain. Since these responses have a small voltage, it is necessary to use electronic averaging methods for improving the signal-to-noise ratio. These methods are described and discussed, as well as principles of interpretation of somatosensory evoked potentials. It is agreed that the traces thus obtained involve a series of components (extracellular potentials) which reflect distinct neural generators. These generators have been identified and localized at different levels of the subcortical somatosensory pathway and in different cortical areas. Several components reflect generators located under the recording electrodes (nearfield potentials), while other reflect extracellular potentials diffusing at a distance in the volume conductor of the neck and head (farfield potentials). The analysis of these components provides a wealth of new data for the physiology and pathophysiology of the somatic sensory system in man. Besides so-called &quot;obligatory&quot; components that are present irrespective of the attention of the subject, the studies have uncovered &quot;cognitive&quot; components which reflect neural mechanisms involved in the intellectual processus of perception and decision.

A radioiodinated photoreactive enkephalin derivative, 125I(D-Ala2, p-N3-Phe4-Met5)enkephalin, was used to photoaffinity label the opioid receptor from the membranes of four mammalian brains (without cerebellum) and spinal cords. These included the cat, rabbit, guinea pig and mouse. The photolabeled membranes were analyzed by sodium dodecyl sulfate gel electrophoresis. A 43,000-daltons protein was specifically photolabeled in all the membranes tested, as the specific labeling of this protein was inhibited in the presence of 14.5 microM of (D-Ala2, Met5)enkephalin. These data suggest that the 43,000-daltons protein is a binding protein of the opioid receptor in the different mammalian neural tissues.
1. Neural activity was recorded in an in vitro hamster hippocampal slice preparation while the temperature of the Ringer's solution bathing in the slice was controlled at selected levels. 2. The amplitude of the population spike (action potentials from a group of pyramidal cells) was measured as bath temperature was lowered from 35 degrees C to temperatures where a response could not be evoked. 3. Plots of population spike amplitude versus temperature have bell-shaped curves. The population spikes increased in amplitude as temperature was lowered from 35 degrees C, reached a peak amplitude between 25 and 20 degrees C, and then decreased until a response could not be evoked when temperature was further lowered. 4. These in vitro results obtained in the slice preparation are related to in vivo hippocampal studies. Results are interpreted as consistent with the proposal reviewed here that neural activity in the hippocampus plays a role at specific stages of entrance into and arousal from hibernation.



The methodological problems of correlation of analytical and synthetical approaches (reduction and integration) in research on the brain mechanisms of behaviour are considered. The correlation of plasticity of polyfunctional brain structures with relative stability of behavioral defects after the damage of the same structures are discussed. The teaching of A. A. Ukhtomski on the dominant as a complex of brain mechanisms securing the active behavioral nature may be a methodological basis for purposeful experimental studies.

The concentrations of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) and its metabolite, 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA), in descending serotonergic neurons of shambling mice, which are neurologically mutant showing trunk instability and hind limb incoordination, were studied by use of both biochemical and fluorescence histochemical methods. 5-HT and 5-HIAA concentrations in the brain stem and spinal cord of the shambling mice were significantly higher than those of the normal mice. In the fluoresence histochemistry, the density of indoleamine fluorescence in ventral cell perikarya in the lumbar spinal cord of the shambling mice was higher than that of normal mice. The present results may show enhancement of 5-HT turnover in descending serotonergic neurons of the shambling mice, and the changes in descending serotonergic neurons seem relevant to the abnormal motor function of the animals.
Behavioral and receptor binding techniques were employed to evaluate the potency of CR 1409, a new analog of proglumide, as a cholecystokinin antagonist. CR 1409, at doses of 1 mg/kg i.p. in mice, effectively blocked the inhibition of feeding and exploratory behaviors induced by cholecystokinin. In rats, CR 1409 alone, at doses of 1 and 10 mg/kg, did not affect feeding or exploratory behaviors, but at 25 mg/kg alone, CR 1409 reduced food intake and exploratory behaviors, suggesting a mixed agonist-antagonist profile. On these several behavorial parameters, CR 1409 antagonized peripherally administered cholecystokinin with 10-1000 times greater potency than that reported for proglumide (Crawley et al., J. Pharmac. Exp. Ther.236, 320-330, 1986). In binding to pancreatic cholecystokinin membranes, CR 1409 was more than 100,000-times more potent than that reported for proglumide (Rovati, Scand. J. Gastroenterol.11, 113-118, 1976). CR 1409 inhabited binding of 125-I-cholecystokinin octapeptide in mouse parcreatic and brain membranes with IC(50) values of 13.7 nM and 2.6 ?M, respectively, demonstrating its selectivity for peripheral-type CCK receptors.
The effects of an in vivo electrical stimulation of the frontal cortex were measured on dopamine (DA) and dihydroxyphenyl acetic acid (DOPAC) contents in the striatum of rats anesthetized with chloral hydrate. Results showed a large decrease in DOPAC and a marked increase in DA content, similar to that obtained when nigrostriatal dopaminergic neuron firing rate is reduced by ?-butyrolactone (GBL) administration. If electrical activation of the corticostriatal glutamatergic neurons increased DA release into the striatum as previously shown in cats, the results of the present experiments actually appeared to be paradoxical. Further studies on [(3)H]DA uptake, tyrosine hydroxylase activity, and measurement of serotonin and 5-hydroxyindole acetic acid after cortical stimulation underline the specificity of changes in DA and DOPAC levels. These data may thus suggest that parallel changes in DA and DOPAC striatal contents can be obtained either by activating DA release by presynaptic mechanisms or by decreasing the firing rate of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons.
We studied a patient with a cerebellar degeneration and hyperactive vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR). He complained of oscillopsia and blurred vision with head movement. A twofold increase in VOR gain (peak eye velocity/peak head velocity) at high frequencies was associated with a VOR time constant of 6 seconds (low normal). Visual cancellation (&quot;suppression&quot;) of the VOR and smooth pursuit were also abnormal. We hypothesized that his high VOR gain was due to dysfunction of olivocerebellar projections. Physostigmine reduced his VOR gain, consistent with the hypothesis that these projections are cholinergic.
Knowledge in neuropsychobiology continues to benefit from the use of drugs as 'tools' to alter neurochemical events as a means of studying interactions between the events and behaviour. Before drugs could play such a role, concepts about basic properties of living organism had to be refined. Techniques had to be invented for investigating the kinetics by which drugs reach their sites of action within the body and the dynamics of their effects once they have occupied their receptors, behaviour being one category of such effects. The present discussion examines these developments in historical perspective, focusing upon influences they have in advancing our understanding of neurochemical substrates of behaviour.
Infants aged 12-26 weeks (3-6 months) were presented with a visual category discrimination learning task (normal vs scrambled faces) in the right or left visual field. Once they had reached the learning criterion, they were tested for transfer to the untrained visual field in order to establish whether visual experience can be communicated to the opposite hemisphere. Transfer of learning was found to occur in infants aged 19-26 weeks but not in younger ones. Neural pathways possibly forming the channels for this communication are discussed.
Differences in age at onset of dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT) have been associated with differences in cognitive impairments and course of the disease. To investigate this, we examined cerebral metabolism and cognitive performance in early and late onset DAT patients, who had equivalent duration and severity of illness. Regional cerebral metabolic rates for glucose were measured in the resting state by positron emission tomography using [18F]2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose. A cross-sectional analysis showed no significant differences between the two groups in performance on neuropsychological tests, but the early onset patients showed significantly more parietal metabolic dysfunction than did the late onset patients. Longitudinal analysis showed no significant differences between early and late onset patients in rate of cognitive decline over a mean interval of 19 months. Thus, our results do not support the hypothesis of different subgroups in DAT based on age at onset, nor suggest a faster rate of cognitive decline in younger patients.






The distribution of muscarinic cholinergic receptors in the human forebrain and cerebellum was studied in detail by quantitative autoradiography using N-[3H]methylscopolamine as a ligand. Only postmortem tissue from patients free of neurological diseases was used in this study. The highest densities of muscarinic cholinergic receptors were found in the striatum, olfactory tubercle and tuberal nuclei of the hypothalamus. Intermediate to high densities were observed in the amygdala, hippocampal formation and cerebral cortex. In the thalamus muscarinic cholinergic receptors were heterogeneously distributed, with densities ranging from very low to intermediate or high. N-[3H]Methylscopolamine binding was low in the hypothalamus, globus pallidus and basal forebrain nuclei, and very low in the cerebellum and white matter tracts. The localization of the putative muscarinic cholinergic receptors subtypes M1 and M2 was analysed in parallel using carbachol and pirenzepine at a single concentration to partially inhibit N-[3H]methylscopolamine binding. Mixed populations of both subtypes were found in all regions. M1 sites were largely predominant in the basal ganglia, amygdala and hippocampus, and constituted the majority of muscarinic cholinergic receptors in the cerebral cortex. M2 sites were preferentially localized in the diencephalon, basal forebrain and cerebellum. In some areas such as the striatum and substantia innominata there was a tendency to lower densities of muscarinic cholinergic receptors with increasing age. In general, we observed a slight decrease in M2 sites in elderly cases. Muscarinic cholinergic receptor concentrations seemed to be reduced following longer postmortem periods. The distribution of acetylcholinesterase was also studied using histochemical methods, and compared with the localization of muscarinic cholinergic receptors and other cholinergic markers. The correlation between the presence of muscarinic cholinergic receptors and the involvement of cholinergic mechanisms in the function of specific brain areas is discussed. Their implication in neurological diseases is also reviewed.
Dissociated mesencephalic raphe cells from fetal rats (14-18 days) were grown in culture in 96 well Linbro plates. The maturation of serotonergic cells was qualitatively studied using immunocytochemistry with a serotonin antibody and quantitatively by measuring the retention of radioactivity following incubation in the presence of a low concentration of [3H]5-hydroxytryptamine (6 X 10(-8) M). The 5-hydroxytryptamine immunoreactive neurons showed specific staining in the perikaryon, nucleus, dendrites, axons and growth cones. These neurons formed varicose fibers and growth cones after 18 h in culture and survived for up to 21 days in culture. Each serotonergic neuron concentrated approximately 1 fmol of serotonin after 20 min of incubation. Maturation of mesencephalic serotonergic neurons was increased in co-cultures of both normal (hippocampus, cerebral cortex, olfactory bulb and striatum) and abnormal (spinal cord) target neurons. The best stimulation was produced by dissociated hippocampal neurons (14-18 days of gestation) on mesencephalic raphe cells (14 days of gestation) after 4 days in culture. This stimulation was seen in culture conditions which favored neuronal but not glial survival. Our results obtained using cultures of dissociated serotonergic cells are consistent with an expansive network pattern developed by this chemical transmitter system in the adult brain.
Antibodies directed against the neurotransmitter gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) enabled the ultrastructural localization of GABA in conventional glutaraldehyde fixed and osmium postfixed material of the rat supraoptic nucleus and neural lobe. GABA was visualized using immunogold postembedding staining in axonal profiles that terminate on dendrites, axons or cell bodies throughout the supraoptic nucleus. The optimum ultrastructural preservation made possible the visualization of GABA terminals, also in the neural lobe. Here GABA axons were found to terminate synaptically on pituicytes and axonal profiles containing large dense core vesicles. These results emphasize, from an anatomical point of view, the potency of GABA to influence, as a transmitter, the release of vasopressin and oxytocin, both at the level of the cell body and of the neural lobe.
The organophosphates, diisopropyl phosphorofluoridate and soman have a common mechanism of action (inhibition of acetylcholinesterase), but result in very different behavioral responses in the rat. Soman rapidly produced persistent tonic convulsions whereas diisopropyl phosphorofluoridate only infrequently produced transient convulsive-like activity. Soman increased local cerebral glucose use in most of the cortex, striato-pallido-nigral pathway, limbic system and in specific thalamic nuclei whereas diisopropyl phosphorofluoridate increased glucose use in a limited fashion, primarily in the dorsal striato-pallido-nigral pathway. When diazepam blocked soman-induced convulsions, the pattern of glucose use was strikingly similar to that caused by diisopropyl phosphorofluoridate. Soman or diisopropyl phosphorofluoridate depressed local cerebral glucose use in rats pretreated with the antidotal mixture of trimedoxime, atropine and benactyzine (muscarinic antagonists). Also, this antidotal mixture blocked the increased glucose use in the dorsal striato-pallido-nigral system produced by either acetylcholinesterase inhibitor, indicating that muscarinic receptors mediate the excitation of this pathway. Both diisopropyl phosphorofluoridate and soman activate the striato-pallido-nigral pathway but soman also causes spread of activity producing overt motor convulsions. Possible explanations for this difference in response to the organophosphates are differential responses in cholinergic actions within specific brain regions or some non-cholinergic action of soman.
Thalamic projections to the paleostriatum and neostriatum in the pigeon have been studied using wheat germ agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase in anterograde and retrograde tracing experiments. Injections centred on different mediolateral regions of the dorsal thalamus produced terminal labelling in correspondingly different mediolateral regions of the striatal complex, comprising paleostriatum augmentation and lobus parolfactorius, within the ventral paleostriatum, and within the neostriatum. Injections into various loci within these regions retrogradely labelled numerous neurons within the dorsal thalamus, the location of which varied systematically with the injection placement; and within various regions of the midbrain and pons. These experiments demonstrate a major thalamic projection to the striatum analogous to that from the midline and intralaminar nuclei to the caudatoputamen in mammals, although the patchy characteristic of mammalian striatal afferent terminations was observed only within ventral regions of the pigeon paleostriatum. In addition the experiments demonstrate that striatal afferents also originate from certain nuclei of the mesencephalic midline which are possibly equivalent to the raphe nuclei.
The fine structure of the axons of the cerebral, egg-laying stimulating caudodorsal cells of the snail Lymnaea stagnalis has been studied with various light and electron microscope techniques. Special attention was paid to exocytotic release of secretory material (demonstrated with the tanic acid method) from nonsynaptic release sites in the cerebral commissure. This phenomenon has been compared with neurohaemal release. The commissure consists of two morphological compartments, separated by a sheath of glial cells. The outer compartment is formed by the neurohaemal area of the caudodorsal cells, the inner consists of thousands of, mainly unidentified, axons. Furthermore, ventral caudodorsal cells send axons through the inner compartment. These give rise to collaterals, which divide into smaller collaterals, forming an extensive network (&quot;collateral system&quot;) throughout the inner compartment. Eventually, collaterals end blindly within the inner compartment. They contain the same three morphological types of secretory granule as the neurohaemal axon terminals. The collaterals never form synaptic contacts; exocytotic release of the contents of secretory granules takes place at nonsynaptic release sites. These sites occur rather dispersed and do not face one particular type of neighbouring neural element. As in the neurohaemal area, both single and multiple exocytoses occur. Widened intercellular spaces, filled with flocculent, electron-dense material, occur near highly active nonsynaptic release sites. The spaces are often bordered by glial cells and may facilitate diffusion of released secretory material through the inner compartment. Apparently, a ventral caudodorsal cell releases secretory material in two fashions: from neurohaemal axon terminals into the haemolymph, and nonsynaptically, from the collaterals into the intercellular space of the central nervous system. Possible functions of the glial sheath between the neurohaemal area and the inner compartment are proposed. Most likely, the collateral system enables the caudodorsal cells to communicate with targets within the central nervous system in a nonsynaptic fashion. A possible target is the cerebral Ring Neuron, which sends an axon branch through the inner compartment and, as was previously shown neurophysiologically, is controlled by the caudodorsal cells in a nonsynaptic fashion.
To compare the effects of a variety of acute and chronic stimuli that bring about or terminate hormone release the ultrastructure of nerve terminal contact at the basal lamina of the neurohypophysial neurovascular contact zone was examined quantitatively in young adult rats of the following treatment groups: untreated virgin females, untreated male rats, prepartum (day 21 of gestation), postpartum (on the day of parturition), lactating (14 days of suckling), mothers 10 days after their pups were weaned, 48 h water-deprived males, males given 2% saline solution (dehydrated) for 10 days, males given 2% saline as described then given tap water to rehydrate for 2 or 5 weeks. Morphometric analysis of electron micrographs revealed that all stimuli leading to increased hormone release were accompanied by both increased occupation of the basal lamina by nerve terminals as well as decreased enclosure of neurosecretory processes by pituicyte cytoplasm. Neural occupation of the basal lamina remained significantly elevated 10 days post-weaning and at 2 weeks (but not 5 weeks) of rehydration following 10 days of dehydration. Pituicyte enclosure of neurosecretory axons had returned to control values in the postweaning and 5 week (but not 2 week) rehydrated animals. The mean length of individual nerve terminal contact with the basal lamina was found to increase under some, but not all, conditions associated with increased hormone release (i.e. parturition, acute and chronic dehydration, but not during lactation) and to decrease below control values in prepartum females and after 5 weeks of rehydration.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Axonal distributions of single locus coeruleus neurons within the cerebral cortex were examined with antidromic stimulation technique combined with cortical lesions (frontal lobotomy and lobectomy). In urethan-anesthetized rats, stimulating electrodes were implanted in 10 points extending over nearly the entire cerebral cortex, and antidromic responses of single locus coeruleus neurons to stimulation of these stimulus sites were analysed. Fifty percent of locus coeruleus neurons examined were activated antidromically from at least one cortical point in the cerebral cortex. The pattern and extent of axonal distributions of single locus coeruleus neurons in the cortex appeared to vary from cell to cell. From the results obtained in rats with the cortical lesions, it is concluded that in addition to locus coeruleus neurons with intracortical axons running from rostral to caudal, there are the neurons projecting to the occipital cortex without innervating the frontal cortex and those projecting simultaneously to the frontal and occipital cortex with two axonal branches. There was no topographic order between the recording sites within the locus coeruleus and the projection sites in the cortex.
Following injections of wheat germ agglutinin-conjugated horseradish peroxidase into the cuneate nucleus of anesthetized rats, retrograde and anterograde label was observed in the cochlear nucleus. Labeled cochlear neurons were found mostly in the ipsilateral dorsal cochlear nucleus and in the contralateral ventral cochlear nucleus. Anterograde label was found primarily ipsilateral to the injection site, and was restricted mainly to the dorsal cochlear nucleus, although label was also observed in the anteroventral cochlear nucleus. Horseradish peroxidase injections were made in the dorsal cochlear nucleus to investigate the source of this pathway. Retrogradely labeled cells in the region of the dorsal column nuclei were located mainly in a shell on the dorsal edge of the cuneate nucleus extending into the white matter of the cuneate fasciculus. The cuneocochlear pathway could provide a direct link between the auditory and somatosensory systems; connections between these two sensory systems may be explained on phylogenetic grounds.
Solid pieces of cerebellar primordia taken from 12-day-old C57BL embryos were implanted into the cerebellar parenchyma of 3- to 4-month-old &quot;Purkinje cell degeneration&quot; mutant mice and analysed 2-3 months later. Purkinje cell replacement was followed by means of immunocytochemistry with antisera against either cyclic guanosine monophosphate-dependent protein kinase or vitamin D-dependent calcium-binding protein, which allows the complete staining of these neurons. Although all solid graft implants survived, their fate within the mutant cerebellum varied in three ways: Often, a more or less large fragment of the solid graft remained in the white matter, close to the cortex or even partially replacing it. These remnants contained a few distorted Purkinje cells and a region corresponding to the transplanted deep nuclei, composed of numerous immunostained axons and axon terminals surrounding immunonegative neurons. Less frequently remnants of the graft were extruded to an extracerebellar location, between two adjacent folia. They contained a few Purkinje cells intermixed with granule cells and other neurons. In a few cases corresponding to superficial deposition, the implants developed lobulated and trilaminated minicerebella which were located outside the mutant cerebellum but integrated into it. In all three situations, a large number of grafted Purkinje cells succeeded in moving out of the implants and in invading the host molecular layer. These Purkinje cells develop flattened dendritic trees perpendicular to host bundles of parallel fibres. Ultrastructural examination of the synaptic investment of Purkinje cells which have reached the host molecular layer revealed that they acquire normal synaptic inputs although complex pericellular baskets and pinceau formation do not develop. Axons from molecular layer interneurons synapse on perikaryal and smooth dendritic membranes, climbing fibres synapse on stubby spines emerging from thick dendritic branches, and parallel fibres contact almost exclusively the long-necked spines of the distal spiny branchlets. Finally, Purkinje cells which succeed in migrating to molecular layer regions no further than 0.6 mm from the host deep nuclei are able to grow axons which reach appropriate target areas and establish synaptic connections on nuclear neurons. The results obtained from this series of long-term survival cerebellar transplantations point to the possibility of fulfilling most of the conditions necessary for functional restoration of neural grafts in systems in which neurons are connected in a point-to-point manner.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The alpha- and beta-stereoisomers of kainate correspond sterically to the L- and D-isomers of glutamate. Alpha-Kainate is a potent excitant at a specific membrane receptor site (kainate receptor). Beta-Kainate has been proposed as a functional N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist in vivo. Because of the structural similarities between the alpha- and beta-stereoisomers of kainate we have investigated the interactions of both compounds with N-methyl-D-aspartate-mediated excitation in two well established animal models for assessing the action of excitatory amino acids and their antagonists in vivo: determination of CD50 (convulsant dose) for myoclonic seizures in mice and electromyographic measurement of muscle tone in genetically spastic rats. We find that alpha-kainate and beta-kainate produce myoclonic seizures in mice when given intracerebroventricularly and increase the muscle tone in genetically spastic rats when given intrathecally. Alpha-Kainate is about 5000 times more potent than beta-kainate as a convulsant and about 1000 times more active than beta-kainate in increasing the muscle tone. The excitatory actions of alpha-kainate and of beta-kainate are blocked by gamma-D-glutamylaminomethylsulphonate, a preferential kainate/quisqualate antagonist, but not by (+/-)-2-amino-7-phosphonoheptanoate, a specific N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist. Surprisingly, alpha-kainate and beta-kainate antagonize the myoclonic seizures and the increase in muscle tone produced by N-methyl-D-aspartate, and potentiate both the anticonvulsant and myorelaxant actions of (+/-)2-amino-7-phosphonoheptanoate. Quisqualate induces myoclonic seizures in mice after intracerebroventricular application and increases muscle tone in genetically spastic rats following intrathecal injection.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The organization of the projections of subclasses of vomeronasal nerve fibers to the accessory olfactory bulb was analysed using monoclonal antibodies generated against a homogenate of the rabbit olfactory bulb. Monoclonal antibody R2D5 labels all the somata of vomeronasal receptor cells in the vomeronasal organ as well as all their axons (vomeronasal nerve fibers). Another monoclonal antibody (R4B12), which has been shown to selectively bind and thus identify a subclass of olfactory nerve fibers, also labels a subclass of vomeronasal nerve fibers. The R4B12-positive subclass of vomeronasal nerve fibers project to the glomeruli in the rostrolateral part of the accessory olfactory bulb. The third monoclonal antibody (R5A10) recognizes a complementary subclass of vomeronasal nerve fibers projecting to the glomeruli in the caudomedial part of the accessory bulb. In contrast to the clearly segregated terminations in the accessory bulb, the two subclasses of vomeronasal nerve fibers are intermingled with each other in the vomeronasal nerve bundles. Retrograde labeling of vomeronasal receptor cell somata following injection of horseradish peroxidase within the rostrolateral (R4B12-positive) part of the accessory bulb indicates that vomeronasal receptor cells of this subtype are widely distributed in the vomeronasal sensory epithelium. These results demonstrate the heterogeneity of vomeronasal receptor cells and the specificity of projections arising from subclasses of vomeronasal nerve fibers to the accessory olfactory bulb.
The cellular origin of peptides derived from preprovasoactive intestinal peptide has been studied in rat stomach and ileum. Antisera specific for the C-terminal regions of the N-terminal flanking peptide (preprovasoactive intestinal peptide 22-80), bridging peptide (preprovasoactive intestinal peptide 111-124), C-terminal flanking peptide (preprovasoactive intestinal peptide 156-170) and vasoactive intestinal peptide were used in immunohistochemical studies on sections and whole mounts. All four antisera stained nerve fibres and cell bodies in the stomach and intestine. However, there were distinct differences in the pattern of colocalization of peptides derived from provasoactive intestinal peptide. In the sub-mucous plexus of the ileum virtually 100% of neurons reacting with vasoactive intestinal peptide antibodies also reacted with antibodies to the other three peptides. In contrast, in the stomach, while all vasoactive intestinal peptide-immunoreactive neurons of the myenteric plexus contained C-terminal flanking peptide- and bridging peptide-like immunoreactivity, only 50% of these cells reacted with the antiserum to N-terminal flanking peptide. The data indicate that in a population of neurons in the myenteric plexus of the rat stomach, preprovasoactive intestinal peptide is processed in such a way that the antigenic determinant of the N-terminal flanking peptide is not produced. In a second population of enteric neurons in the stomach, and in the intestine, it appears that processing of preprovasoactive intestinal peptide results in the production of peptides reacting with antibodies to vasoactive intestinal peptide, the flanking and bridging peptides.
The neural crest-derived, first-order, sensory neurons of the embryonic chick trigeminal mesencephalic nucleus were grown in dissociated, glia-free culture. Whereas brain-derived neurotrophic factor promoted the survival and growth of the majority of these neurons (over 70% after 48 h incubation), nerve growth factor had no effect on their survival. The percentage survival in cultures supplemented with nerve growth factor at concentrations ranging from 0.2 to 625 ng/ml was only 2%, the same percentage survival as in control cultures. Furthermore, nerve growth factor did not change the dose-response of these neurons to brain-derived neurotrophic factor. Although nerve growth factor did not influence the survival of trigeminal mesencephalic neurons in culture, nerve growth factor specifically bound to the great majority of neurons growing in the presence of brain-derived neurotrophic factor. Autoradiographs of cultures incubated with iodinated nerve growth factor showed that the perikarya and processes of neurons were heavily labelled with silver grains. These findings demonstrate the existence of a population of neural crest-derived sensory neurons which express nerve growth factor receptors but are not supported by nerve growth factor in culture.
Intracellular recordings were made from neurons of the rat locus coeruleus contained within a brain slice maintained in vitro. When applied to the slice in known concentrations the selective kappa opioid receptor agonist trans-(+)-3,4-dichloro-N-methyl-[2-(1-pyrrolidinyl)cyclohexyl] benzeneacetamide methane sulphonate (U50488) (0.01-1 microM) produced a concentration-dependent depression of the excitatory post-synaptic potential evoked by electrical stimulation of afferent inputs to the locus coeruleus. This effect was antagonized by naloxone with an apparent dissociation equilibrium constant (Kd) of 28 nM. U50488 did not completely abolish the EPSP. Over the same concentration range U50488 had no effect on the resting membrane potential, input resistance or action potential waveform of locus coeruleus neurons, nor did U50488 depress the depolarization produced by local application of L-glutamic acid. The mu opioid receptor agonists [D-Ala2, NMe Phe4, Gly-ol5] enkephalin (0.003-1 microM) and [D-Ala2, NMe Phe4, Met(O)5] enkephalinol (0.003-1 microM) caused a membrane hyperpolarization concomitant with a fall in neuronal input resistance. These effects were concentration-dependent and antagonized by naloxone with an apparent Kd of 1.5 nM. Mu agonists also caused a depression of the tetrodotoxin resistant action potential. An in vitro autoradiographic study of [3H]bremazocine binding within the locus coeruleus revealed that, although the majority of binding appears to be to mu sites, a significant proportion was displaceable by unlabelled U50488 and thus represented kappa binding sites. The possibility that kappa opioid receptors may be located pre-synaptically within the locus coeruleus, and that activation of these receptors depresses excitatory synaptic input, is discussed.
Opioid binding sites were localized in cryostat sections of guinea-pig brain by in vitro autoradiography using (-)-[3H]bremazocine. Quantification of binding sites in gray matter was accomplished using standard samples of tritium mixed in brain gray matter. The binding sites in fiber tracts were quantified using standards made from white matter to compensate for the quenching caused by myelin. Binding in gray matter corroborated previous findings that the moderately high densities of opioid sites in the cerebellum are of the kappa type, and that the V and VI laminae of the cerebral cortex, the substantia nigra, and olfactory bulb contain high levels of opioid sites in the guinea-pig. Several fiber tracts such as cerebellar white matter and the corpus callosum contained densities of (-)-[3H]bremazocine binding sites equal to, or higher than, the most densely labeled gray matter areas. The dorsal hippocampal commissure and the splenium of the corpus callosum contained 2200 fmol sites/mg protein, two and one half times more than the most densely labeled gray matter areas, the external plexiform layer of the olfactory bulb. These sites may be receptors in transport, but their density constitutes a massive volume of receptors for which a physiological role still needs to be more clearly defined.
Using an antibody raised against dopamine the occurrence of dopamine-containing fibers was demonstrated in the prefrontal cortex, anterior cingulate cortex, parietal neocortex, piriform cortex and entorhinal cortex. In extracts of these cortical regions significant amounts of dopamine, although approximately a 100-fold less than in the neostriatum or nucleus accumbens, were detected with high performance liquid chromatography. The release of [3H]dopamine from slices of all these cortical regions was studied in vitro in a superfusion system and desipramine was used to prevent the uptake of [3H]dopamine in noradrenergic nerve terminals. It appeared that the electrically evoked release of radioactivity was inhibited by drugs stimulating D-2 dopamine-receptors in all the regions studied. Cation-exchange column chromatography revealed that the radioactivity released consisted predominantly of [3H]dopamine, indicating that D-2 receptors mediate the inhibition of the release of [3H]dopamine from dopaminergic nerve terminals. Likewise, in the neostriatum as well as in the nucleus accumbens D-2 receptor stimulation inhibits the release of [3H]dopamine. Therefore it is our conclusion that D-2 receptors regulate the release of dopamine from dopaminergic neurons originating in the ventral tegmental area as well as in the substantia nigra.
D(-)Aminophosphonovalerate, a specific antagonist of the N-methyl-D-aspartate subtype of glutamate receptor, was perfused through a push-pull cannula into the dentate gyrus of rats anaesthetized with urethan in order to observe its effect on the induction and maintenance of long-term potentiation and on the increase in release of endogenous glutamate associated with long-term potentiation. The amplitude of the population spike evoked by single test shocks to the perforant path was significantly depressed by 100 microM D(-)aminophosphonovalerate, but there was a minimal effect on the slope of the population excitatory postsynaptic potential, or on the concentration of glutamate released into the perfusate. A brief high-intensity tetanus given to the perforant path while D(-)aminophosphono-valerate was being perfused failed to induce long-term potentiation or the sustained increase in glutamate release associated with long-term potentiation. Short-term post-tetanic potentiation was not affected. After wash-out of D(-)aminophosphonovalerate, a second high-frequency train produced both long-term potentiation and an increase in glutamate release which was sustained for the subsequent 1 h period of observation. D(-)Aminophosphonovalerate did not suppress long-term potentiation once it had been induced. D(-)Aminophosphonovalerate (100 microM) did not itself affect in vivo release of glutamate. However, in a separate series of in vitro experiments, D(-)aminophosphonovalerate at concentrations of 50 microM and above was found to depress the Ca2+ -dependent, K+-stimulated release of preloaded [14C]-glutamate from dentate slices.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The benzamide derivative [125I]iodosulpride was used to generate light microscopic autoradiograms on sections of rat brain and spinal cord. Sites specifically labelled by [125I]iodosulpride over a low background correspond to dopamine D-2 receptors as shown by their pharmacology established by densitometric analysis of 11 typical areas from autoradiograms generated in the presence of five dopamine-competing agents. An atlas of D-2 receptors was established using 1 horizontal, 6 sagittal and 30 frontal sections, the latter serially prepared at 0.5-1 mm intervals. Labelled areas were identified by comparison with corresponding, classically stained sections. When their density, rated according to an arbitrary scale, was then compared to that previously reported for dopamine innervation, evaluated from distributional maps of dopamine histofluorescence or tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity, three situations were found. In areas corresponding to cells of origin and established projection fields of the mesostriatal, mesolimbocortical, diencephalospinal and periglomerular systems the density of D-2 receptors generally paralleled that of dopamine innervation. D-2 receptors in substantia nigra (pars compacta or reticulata) and ventral tegmental area were strongly reduced after injections of the neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine into the medial forebrain bundle, suggesting their major localization on dendrites and perikarya of dopamine neurons. Most other described dopamine cell group areas also contained D-2 receptors. In contrast many areas without established dopamine innervation contained D-2 receptors, sometimes in high density. This was the case for large areas of the cerebral cortex (layers I-III and V-VI) outside the established projection fields of the mesocortical system, the cerebellum (moleculare layer and dense patches within lobule 9), the hippocampal formation (lacunosum moleculare layer), several septal, thalamic and hypothalamic nuclei, large tectal areas, numerous brainstem areas (including cranial nerve nuclei), etc. This situation might correspond to areas with minor and still undetected dopamine innervation or to a localization of D-2 receptors on cells (or cell parts) not receiving dopamine inputs. Finally several well-established dopaminergic areas did not reveal any D-2 receptor labelling. This was particularly the case in the hypothalamus (areas of origin or termination of the tuberohypophyseal and incertohypothalamic dopamine systems) but also in the hippocampal formation (alveus, fimbria, hilus dentate gyrus), amygdaloid complex (anterior, basolateral, medial nuclei).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Physiological (pH 7.2 and 7.0) and pathological (pH 6.8 and 6.6) changes of external pH, as they are measured in vivo, were imposed on mouse astrocytes in primary cultures and the effect on components of K+ transport pathways across the cell membrane was measured. Physiological pH changes had no effect at all. Pathological pH changes in inhibited K+ fluxes through channels by 40%. This effect occurred 3-6 min after a pH change and was not additive to a similar change induced by amiloride. This could be seen as an indication that the observed effects are mediated by subsequent changes in intracellular pH; however, direct intracellular pH measurements were not undertaken. A low pH of 6.6 inhibited the activity of the Na+, K+-ATPase by 65% and reduced the carrier-mediated K+ net accumulation into the cells by 60%. This suggests that measured extracellular pH changes in the brain may be functionally important, as they interfere with the K+ homeostasis of the nervous tissue.
Electroresponsiveness of neostriatal neurons was studied by intracellular recording in a rat brain slice preparation maintained in standard solution or in solution containing K-channel blockers. In standard solution, the neurons fired repetitively at increasing frequencies with increasing amplitude of direct depolarization. The firing pattern was independent of the membrane potential from which firing was induced. In the presence of tetraethylammonium (20 mM), long-lasting (300-500 ms) plateau potentials could be elicited by the injection of short (5-10 ms) current pulses. Plateau potentials persisted in Na-free solution, in the presence of tetrodotoxin (1-3 microM) and if Ca in the perifusate was replaced by Ba. The plateau was blocked by Cd (500 microM). The plateaux were followed by depolarizing after-potentials. When the plateau potential failed due to fatigue, a small slow depolarization of short duration (10-30 ms) was elicited in Na-free or tetrodotoxin-containing solution, which increased in amplitude with membrane hyperpolarization. This slow depolarization was blocked by Cd, indicating that it was also mediated by Ca. By intrastriatal stimulation in the presence of 4-aminopyridine a long-lasting, voltage-dependent depolarization was triggered from the enhanced postsynaptic potential. In contrast, in the presence of tetraethylammonium, postsynaptic potentials were only slightly increased if they were compared at sizes subthreshold for the plateau potentials. It is concluded that neostriatal neurons, although being characterized as &quot;silent&quot; and &quot;non-bursting&quot;, possess slow conductances for inward currents which they share with other mammalian central neurons. However, in contrast, to other central neurons, their Ca-spikes are suppressed by their K-conductances and, in contrast to oscillating neurons, low-threshold Ca-potentials are not prominent.
Although beta-nerve growth factor is primarily known for its trophic role in the peripheral nervous system, recent reports have also revealed an inductive effect of beta-nerve growth factor on the cholinergic metabolism of the forebrain. To learn more about the significance and location of beta-nerve growth factor action in the central nervous system, the distribution of [125I]beta-nerve growth factor binding sites was studied by using the method of in situ receptor autoradiography and compared with the distribution of acetylcholinesterase, a sensitive enzyme marker of cholinergic neurons. The autoradiographic studies demonstrated strong, specific and saturable [125I]beta-nerve growth factor binding to several neuronal groupings in the forebrain and brainstem. beta-Nerve growth factor binding sites and strong acetylcholinesterase reactivity were jointly distributed in the forebrain on the medial septal nucleus, the diagonal band of Broca, the magnocellular basal nucleus and in the striatum. In the brainstem, beta-nerve growth factor binding sites were located on a number of neuronal groups in the reticular formation, the dorsolateral lemniscus and the cochlear nuclei. In contrast to the forebrain, less correlation was found with the distribution of acetylcholinesterase; no beta-nerve growth factor receptor expression was recorded on the cholinergic motor nuclei of the brainstem, while specific [125I]beta-nerve growth factor labeling could be located on the non-cholinergic cochlear nuclei. The present autoradiographic studies reveal a variety of tentatively beta-nerve growth factor receptor-positive neurons in the central nervous system. While strong correlation between the cholinergic metabolism and the presence of specific beta-nerve growth factor binding is demonstrated in the forebrain, this observation could not be extended to the brainstem, indicating the chemical diversity of central beta-nerve growth factor receptor-positive neurons.
Intracellular recordings were made from neurons of the guinea pig submucosal plexus and the effects of substance P and the substance P analogue [D-Arg1,D-Pro2,D-Trp7,9,Leu11]substance P were examined. Substance P (20-200 nM) depolarized all submucosal neurons; these depolarizations were shown to be due to a decrease in the resting (or &quot;leak&quot;) potassium conductance of the membrane. In approximately 50% of the 46 neurons tested, superfusion with [D-Arg1,D-Pro2,D-Trp7,9,Leu11]substance P (0.2-20 microM) produced a dose-dependent membrane hyperpolarization. This hyperpolarization was prevented by the alpha 2-adrenoceptor antagonist idazoxan (300 nM) or by concentrations of cobalt which abolished all spontaneous and evoked synaptic potentials, indicating that it resulted from release of noradrenaline from sympathetic nerve terminals. [D-Arg1,D-Pro2,D-Trp7,9,Leu11]substance P depressed the amplitude of the three synaptic potentials recorded from submucosal neurons; the concentrations that caused 50% of the maximal inhibition of the fast excitatory postsynaptic potential, the inhibitory postsynaptic potential, and slow excitatory postsynaptic potential were 40 microM, 600 nM and 20 microM, respectively. When idazoxan was present, the substance P analogue was less effective in depressing the amplitudes of the fast and slow excitatory synaptic potentials suggesting that much of its presynaptic inhibition also resulted from release of noradrenaline. These results provide evidence that [D-Arg1,D-Pro2,D-Trp7,9,Leu11]substance P releases noradrenaline from sympathetic nerves in the submucosal plexus. One effect of this is a membrane hyperpolarization; another is a presynaptic inhibition of transmitter release. These actions much limit the usefulness of this &quot;substance P antagonist&quot; in efforts to show that synaptic potentials, such as the slow excitatory synaptic potential, are mediated by substance P.
The distribution, origin and projections of nerve fibers containing vasoactive intestinal peptide, neuropeptide Y, somatostatin, substance P, enkephalin and calcitonin gene-related peptide were studied in the rat jejunum by immunocytochemistry and immunochemistry. Their origin was determined by the use of various procedures for extrinsic denervation (chemical sympathectomy, bilateral vagotomy or clamping of mesenterial nerves). The terminations of the different types of intramural nerve fibers were identified by examination of the loss of nerve fibers that followed local disruption of enteric nervous pathways (intestinal myectomy, transection or clamping). The majority of the peptide-containing nerve fibers in the gut wall were intramural in origin, each nerve fiber population having its own characteristic distribution and projection pattern. Nerve fibers emanating from the myenteric ganglia terminated within the myenteric ganglia and in the smooth muscle layers: those storing vasoactive intestinal peptide/neuropeptide Y, somatostatin and substance P were descending, those storing enkephalin were ascending and those containing calcitonin gene-related peptide projected in both directions. Nerve fibers emanating from the submucous ganglia terminated mainly within the submucous ganglia and in the mucosa: those storing calcitonin gene-related peptide or vasoactive intestinal peptide/neuropeptide Y were ascending and those storing substance P or somatostatin were both ascending and descending. Enkephalin nerve fibers could not be detected in the mucosa.
Opiate dependence is not represented by a single neuronal substrate but probably reflects actions at multiple functional sites in the central nervous system. Classical measures of opiate dependence such as escape reactions and wet dog shakes may be elicited by neural substrates in the medial thalamus and periaqueductal gray. Our work and others suggests that the region in the nucleus accumbens and its afferent and efferent connections may be an important substrate to reinforcing properties of opiates. The nucleus accumbens is also an important substrate for the reinforcing properties of stimulant drugs. These data suggest that opiate dependence may represent functional changes not only in neural substrates responsible for physical dependence, but also in brain sites responsible for the reinforcing actions of opiates. It should be noted that there was inability in the early days when the endorphins first came to the forefront, to show correlations between changes in opiate binding and endorphin levels associated with dependence. This may be due to a failure to identify functionally significant substrates that may be implicated from what one would call the top-down approach. Perhaps the &quot;neurohumor&quot; that Dr. Cochin was thinking about is an opioid peptide located in brain regions high in opiate receptors and functionally sensitive to opiate antagonists. New work isolating particular loci for opiate actions may point to potential sites and neurochemical substrates for opiate dependence.


Previous research in our laboratory has shown that adrenalectomizing rats on day 11 postnatal leads to subsequent increases in brain weight, cellularity (measured in terms of DNA content), and myelination. The present study was designed to determine whether these effects are due to removal of circulating glucocorticoids. Male and female albino rats were adrenalectomized (ADX) on day 11 and then injected daily with either 7.0 mg/kg corticosterone in a steroid suspension vehicle or vehicle alone. A third group of animals was sham-operated (SHAM) and given daily vehicle injections. Subjects were sacrificed at 60 days of age for measurement of brain and body weights, cerebral DNA content, and the activity of 2',3'-cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase (CNP), a myelin marker enzyme. As expected from our earlier findings, brain weights and DNA and CNP levels were all significantly elevated in ADX-untreated rats compared to SHAMs. More importantly, all of these changes were completely prevented by chronic corticosterone administration. These results are consistent with previous reports that corticosterone treatment blocks increased brain growth in ADX weanling rats and support our hypothesis that the brain growth stimulating effects of day-11 adrenalectomy are likewise mediated by the removal of glucocorticoids. It appears that glucocorticoid hormones exert a tonic inhibition of at least some growth related processes in the brains of intact developing organisms.
Rats were placed in a stressful environment for 24 hr per day and levels of plasma hormones were measured after varying numbers of days in the environment. Rats were habituated to operant chambers placed in sound-attenuated enclosures. Food pellets were available by lever press on a FR1 schedule. After 3 days of habituation, rats in the &quot;stressed&quot; group were trained to pull a ceiling chain to avoid or escape shock. Following training, stress trials, consisting of a consecutive sequence of 5 sec each of a warning light, warning tone and 0.16, 0.32, 0.65, 1.3 and 2.6 mA of footshock, occurred approximately once per 5 min around-the-clock. For the first day, the sequence was terminated when the ceiling chain was pulled. On subsequent days, 90% of all shock presentations could be avoided or escaped by chain pull; the remaining 10% of trials were inescapable and the entire sequence was presented. Control rats lived in identical chambers without presentation of shock. Rats were sacrificed after 1, 2, 3, 4, 7 or 14 days in this environment and levels of plasma corticosterone, ACTH and prolactin were determined. Levels of plasma corticosterone were elevated during the first 7 days in the stressful environment, but returned to control values by day 14. Levels of plasma ACTH and prolactin were similar in stressed and control rats at all time points measured. These data suggest that stress-induced changes in glucocorticoids but not in ACTH or prolactin might mediate some of the physiological changes that occur as the result of chronic stress.
A circadian paradigm of susceptibility to tonic-clonic convulsions was experimentally analyzed in genetically epileptic mice. In conjunction with behavioral and neurochronobiological studies, we demonstrated from these animal models that the tonic-clonic susceptibility appears to be modulated by the vigilance level. Thanks to biometric and inferential rhythmometric procedures, the chronobiological data obtained and the complementary psychophysiological investigations performed in this study suggest several heuristic perspectives concerning the central pathophysiology of epilepsy. The results obtained within the field of the neurosciences are consistent with the hypothesis suggested by chronobiology that central hyperactivation negatively influences the tonic-clonic susceptibility. Such experiments respectively conducted in chronobiology and fundamental neurology provide a quantitative approach for a better understanding of some brain mechanisms regulating seizure susceptibility.




Local cerebral glucose utilization (LCGU) was measured, using the quantitative autoradiographic [14C]2-deoxy-D-glucose method, in 92 discrete brain regions of awake rats, at 1, 2, 3, or 4 h after administration of the serotonergic antagonist methiothepin 0.1 mg/kg IP. The drug produced a cataleptic behavior that peaked in intensity at 3 h after its administration. LCGU declined significantly in 35% of the 92 regions at one or more time points after methiothepin administration. No area of increased metabolism was found. The time-course of the decline in LCGU closely paralleled the intensity of catalepsy; the peak effect was at 3 h, when LCGU was significantly reduced in 32% of the regions examined (mean decline for all regions was 15%). Metabolic depression after methiothepin was most notable in the forebrain, where LCGU declined in many regions of the cerebral cortex, basal ganglia, and thalamus. Most of the regions affected by methiothepin possess a substantial number of serotonin receptors, although LCGU was also reduced in a few regions not primarily involved in serotonergic neurotransmission.
Young adult rats (5 months) were compared with aged (28 months) rats in their ability to learn and perform in a diazepam drug discrimination. Both groups of rats were drug naive at the onset of the experiment. Adult and aged animals learned to discriminate diazepam. In general, the response rates under both drug and vehicle conditions were significantly lower for the aged group. The diazepam stimuli were dose-dependent in each group. Similar dose-dependent generalization with chlordiazepoxide, pentobarbital, and methocarbamol was also noted in both the aged and adult animals. These data suggest that aged animals, who have experienced anxiolytic compounds over a period of time (in this case, repeated administration of diazepam in the discrimination procedure), respond in a similar fashion to drug treatment as do young adult animals, verifying the reliability and validity of results obtained in aging rats who are repeatedly exposed to drug treatment.
Current views on the organisation and functions of the circadian rhythm system are outlined. Evidence is presented supportive of the notion that the pathophysiology of the affective disorders involves a disruption of circadian rhythms and that the primary locus of action of agents effective in the affective disorders is on the circadian rhythm system. Potential disruptions of this system are enumerated. Such a hypothesis, it is argued, might potentially unite the disparate neurochemical and neuroendocrinological findings emerging in both depression and mania. There are in addition neuropsychological and nosological implications of such a framework, which may help bridge the divide between molecular and behavioural approaches to research on the affective disorders which are outlined.
The effects of the novel anxiolytics gepirone, buspirone and ipsapirone on free feeding and on feeding induced by the 5-HT1A receptor agonist, 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino) tetralin (8-OH-DPAT), were examined. Gepirone dose-dependently increased feeding 2 and 4 h after injection, the magnitude of the response being larger than previously observed with any other 5-HT1A receptor ligand. Previous studies have suggested that buspirone and ipsapirone can block some of the behavioural effects of 8-OH-DPAT. However, gepirone, buspirone and ipsapirone did not inhibit feeding induced by 8-OH-DPAT. These results indicate that gepirone is a very efficacious appetite stimulant in rats and suggest that gepirone, buspirone and ipsapirone act as 5-HT autoreceptor agonists in the feeding model.
Alexithymic characteristics were examined in a sample of 30 patients fulfilling the DSM-III criteria for psychogenic pain disorder using an interviewer-rated scale (Beth Israel Hospital Psychosomatic Questionnaire), a self-rated scale (Toronto Alexithymia Scale) and a projective technique (Thematic Apperception Test). The findings were compared with a control group of healthy subjects matched on sociodemographic variables. Pain patients were found to be more alexithymic in contrast to the control group as evidenced by the interviewer-rated and self-rated scales. The correlations among the three measures were in the expected direction.
This article describes the major neuroendocrine developments that are associated with the normal onset of puberty in the female rats. Although differences exist between rats and humans with regard to development and function of the reproductive system, there are major basic similarities. This makes the rat a valuable laboratory model in which to evaluate the effects of potentially hazardous substances on normal sexual maturation. A systematic experimental approach is presented to show how the study of reproductive development in the female rat can aid our understanding of the processes by which these substances could disturb normal puberty in the human female.


An immunohistochemical technique for simultaneously visualizing two different antigens has been used to investigate the presence of the acidic dipeptide, N-acetyl-aspartyl-glutamate (NAAG), in cholinergic, noradrenergic-adrenergic, and serotonergic neurons within CNS. The brain slices were processed sequentially with purified antisera against NAAG and then monoclonal antibody against choline acetyltransferase (ChAT), a marker for cholinergic neurons, or antiserum against dopamine-beta-hydroxylase (DBH), a marker of noradrenergic-adrenergic neurons, or antiserum against serotonin (5HT). Both antigens were revealed by the peroxidase reaction but with different chromogens, which are easily distinguishable. An intense double staining of NAAG-like immunoreactivity (NAAG-LI) and ChAT was observed in the motoneurons of the spinal cord as well as in the several motor components of cranial nerve nuclei including facial, ambiguus, and trigeminal nuclei. A partial colocalization of NAAG-LI and ChAT was evident in the perikarya of the basal forebrain cholinergic system, whereas cholinergic neurons of the medial septum exhibited only sporadic staining for NAAG-LI. A complete coexistence of NAAG-LI and DBH was observed in the locus coeruleus. Most of the other noradrenergic and adrenergic cell groups of the medulla region exhibited substantial co-localization with the exception of the A2 cell group, which was virtually devoid of NAAG-LI. In the dorsal raphe, only a low percentage of serotonergic neurons stained for NAAG-LI. The co-existence of NAAG-LI and serotonin was more evident in the neurons of the median raphe, although the majority of cells failed to show double staining.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The nervous system of the snail, Helisoma trivolvis, has been utilized for a wide range of studies of neuronal plasticity; however, the ultrastructural features of this tissue were previously unknown. The present study examined the nature of synaptic interactions of neurons and glia and considered several plasma membrane specializations of these cells. The symmetrical pair of buccal ganglia consisted of a ring of unipolar neurons surrounding a central neuropil. The neurons were separated by two morphologically distinct types of glia: type I were most numerous and possessed an electron-dense homogeneous cytoplasm, whereas type II glia were of lower electron density, possessed a heterogeneous cytoplasm, and appeared to be phagocytic. Gap junctions were abundant between glia and were occasionally found between neuronal processes, including those of neurons 19 injected with horseradish peroxidase (HRP). Comparison of neuron and glial gap junction widths (16.4 and 17.6 nm, respectively) in thin sections and their intramembrane particle diameters (13.1 and 13.7 nm, respectively) by freeze fracture, did not elucidate significant differences. A heterogeneous population of putative chemical synapses, similar to those reported in other molluscs, was also observed between axonal collaterals in the neuropil. Additionally, examination of freeze-fractured neuropil revealed rhombic arrays of particles localized on neuronal membranes; these arrays do not appear to form intercellular junctions but may represent postsynaptic receptor sites. Freeze fracture also revealed small, square arrays consisting of 7-9 nm diameter particles on glial membranes which may correspond to pentalaminar membrane contacts (pseudo-gap junctions) seen in thin sections between glia situated around dilated extracellular spaces (lacunae).
The relation between the electrophysiological activity of Type I striatal neurons, local dopamine (DA) concentration, and motor behavior in rats was investigated using intraventricular administration of the neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine (6-HDA) and extracellular single-unit recording. Results are compared with findings of past experiments in which the activity of Type II striatal neurons was examined after comparable 6-HDA-induced lesions. Several differences between the present observations and the earlier results were found. First, although large depletions (greater than 50%) of DA local to the site of the recording were required before the spontaneous firing rate of either cell type was increased, the levels necessary for this effect were found to be less for Type I cells than for Type II neurons. Second, although DA depletions of greater than 50% always were associated with increased Type I cell activity, depletions of greater than 95% resulted in spontaneous firing rates that were lower than those observed after depletions of approximately 90%. Thus, the relation between extent of dopaminergic depletion and Type I cell firing rate was biphasic, whereas that relation previously was found to be monophasic for Type II neurons. Finally, whereas increased Type I cell activity in the lateral striatum was associated with the aphagia, adipsia, and akinesia induced by large DA-depleting brain lesions, increased Type II cell activity in the medial striatum was found to be associated with these impairments. Because accumulating evidence suggests that the functioning of the lateral striatum is more critical for these behaviors, however, it is proposed that the substrate of the behavioral dysfunctions resulting from DA depletion is the Type I cell population in lateral striatum.
Beta-N-methylamino-L-alanine (BMAA) and beta-N-oxalylamino-L-alanine (BOAA) are chemically related amino acids present in the seeds of Cycas circinalis and Lathyrus sativus, respectively. Consumption of these seeds has been linked to Guam amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (BMAA) and lathyrism (BOAA; a form of primary lateral sclerosis). A single large dose of BOAA or BMAA causes seizures in newborn mice and postsynaptic neuronal edema and degeneration in CNS explants. We report that the acute neurotoxic actions of these amino acids are blocked selectively by specific glutamate-receptor antagonists (administered intracerebroventricularly) (i.c.v.) prior to the amino acid. Administration of BOAA i.c.v. to neonatal mice (ED100 = 50 micrograms) elicits a spectrum of time-dependent behavioral states including arm and leg rigidity, convulsions, and resting tremor. These are blocked in a dose-dependent manner by cis-2,3-piperidine dicarboxylic acid (PDA), an antagonist of quisqualate (QA)-preferring (A2) and kainate (KA)-preferring (A3) glutamate receptors (ED50s; 2.8 micrograms, rigidity; 1.4 micrograms, convulsions; 2.4 micrograms, resting tremor). BMAA induces a transitory hyperexcitable state followed by a long-lasting whole-body shake/wobble (ED100 = 1,000 micrograms, i.c.v.). These responses are antagonized selectively and dose-dependently by 2-amino-7-phosphonoheptanoic acid (AP7), an N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) or A1 glutamate-receptor antagonist (ED50 = 0.45 microgram). Taken collectively, our data indicate that the acute neuronotoxic actions of BOAA and BMAA (or a metabolite) operate through different glutamate-receptor species. BMAA likely exerts most of its action indirectly via the A1 glutamate receptor, while BOAA acts principally at the A2 and/or A3 receptor.
The effect of prior lesioning of noradrenergic neurons with 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) on the ability of amitriptyline to enhance the responsiveness of hippocampal pyramidal neurons to serotonin (5-HT) was examined in Sprague-Dawley rats. In control rats, amitriptyline (5 mg/kg/day for 14 days), administered either by daily injection or by an osmotic minipump, enhanced the responsiveness of these neurons to microiontophoretically applied 5-HT, leaving their responsiveness to norepinephrine (NE) and to acetylcholine unaltered. However, in 6-OHDA-pretreated rats, amitriptyline failed to enhance the responsiveness of hippocampal pyramidal neurons to 5-HT. The effect of NE and, to a lesser extent, that of 5-HT were prolonged in 6-OHDA-pretreated rats, presumably because NE and 5-HT released by microiontophoresis are taken up by NE terminals in the intact rat. The present results provide additional evidence that the integrity of the NE system is required for antidepressant treatments to modify 5-HT neurotransmission.
Paroxetine is a potent and selective inhibitor of serotonin uptake into neurons. Serotonin uptake sites have been identified, localized, and quantified in rat brain by autoradiography with 3H-paroxetine; 3H-paroxetine binding in slide-mounted sections of rat forebrain was of high affinity (KD = 10 pM) and the inhibition affinity constant (Ki) values of various drugs in competing 3H-paroxetine binding significantly correlated with their reported potencies in inhibiting synaptosomal serotonin uptake. Serotonin uptake sites labeled by 3H-paroxetine were highly concentrated in the dorsal and median raphe nuclei, central gray, superficial layer of the superior colliculus, lateral septal nucleus, paraventricular nucleus of the thalamus, and the islands of Calleja. High concentrations of 3H-paroxetine binding sites were found in brainstem areas containing dopamine (substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area) and norepinephrine (locus coeruleus) cell bodies. Moderate concentrations of 3H-paroxetine binding sites were present in laminae I and IV of the frontal parietal cortex, primary olfactory cortex, olfactory tubercle, regions of the basal ganglia, septum, amygdala, thalamus, hypothalamus, hippocampus, and some brainstem areas including the interpeduncular, trigeminal, and parabrachial nuclei. Lower densities of 3H-paroxetine binding sites were found in other regions of the neocortex and very low to nonsignificant levels of binding were present in white matter tracts and in the cerebellum. Lesioning of serotonin neurons with 3,4-methylenedioxyamphetamine caused large decreases in 3H-paroxetine binding. The autoradiographic distribution of 3H-paroxetine binding sites in rat brain corresponds extremely well to the distribution of serotonin terminals and cell bodies as well as with the pharmacological sites of action of serotonin.
The sustained administration of the 5-HT1A agonist gepirone (15 mg/kg/day, s.c.) in the rat produced an initial decrease of the firing activity of dorsal raphe 5-HT neurons which was followed by a progressive recovery to normal after 14 days of treatment. At this point in time, the effect of intravenous lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD) on the firing activity of 5-HT neurons was markedly reduced, whereas those of 8-hydroxy-2-N,N-propylamino-tetralin (8-OH-DPAT) and of gepirone were unchanged; however, the responsiveness of 5-HT neurons to direct microiontophoretic application of 5-HT, LSD, 8-OH-DPAT, and gepirone, but not of GABA, was reduced. The responsiveness of postsynaptic dorsal hippocampus pyramidal neurons to 5-HT, 8-OH-DPAT, and gepirone was not altered by the 14-day gepirone treatment. The effectiveness of the electrical stimulation of the ascending 5-HT pathway in reducing pyramidal neuron firing activity was not significantly modified in rats treated with gepirone for 14 days. Furthermore, this treatment did not alter the function of the terminal 5-HT autoreceptor. It is concluded that the progressive restoration of the firing activity of 5-HT neurons, due to a desensitization of the somatodendritic 5-HT autoreceptor, combined with the direct activation of normosensitive postsynaptic 5-HT1A receptor by gepirone, should result in an augmented tonic activation of postsynaptic 5-HT1A receptors. The progressive appearance of this phenomenon would be consistent with the time course of the clinical anxiolytic, and possibly antidepressant, effects of gepirone.
Short-term lithium administration to rats has previously been shown to enhance 5-HT neurotransmission through a modification of 5-HT neuron properties. In the first part of the present study, the effect of lithium on the function of terminal 5-HT autoreceptors was assessed by comparing in controls and lithium-treated rats the differential effect of two frequencies of stimulation (0.8 and 5 Hz) and that of methiothepin, a terminal 5-HT autoreceptor antagonist, on the effectiveness of the electrical activation of the ascending 5-HT pathway in suppressing dorsal hippocampus pyramidal neuron firing activity. Both procedures produced similar effects in controls and lithium-treated rats. In the second part of the study, the function of somatodendritic 5-HT autoreceptors was studied. The effect of intravenous LSD, an agonist of the somatodendritic 5-HT autoreceptor, on the firing activity of 5-HT neurons was not modified by the lithium treatment, whereas that of intravenous 8-OH-DPAT, a 5-HT1A receptor agonist, was increased two-fold. However, lithium did not alter the responsiveness of 5-HT neurons to direct microiontophoretic applications of 8-OH-DPAT as well as of LSD and 5-HT. It is concluded that short-term lithium treatment does not alter the function of terminal and somatodendritic 5-HT autoreceptors and that it enhances the sensitivity of a subset of postsynaptic 5-HT1A receptors involved in controlling 5-HT neuron firing activity, presumably through a feedback loop.
We report here that corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) stimulates adenylate cyclase activity in the rat central nervous system (CNS). In frontoparietal cortex homogenates, the stimulation by CRF was dependent on time, temperature, tissue protein concentration, and guanine nucleotides. The rank order of potency for CRF analogs and fragments in stimulating adenylate cyclase activity [(Nle21,38) rat CRF greater than rat CRF approximately equal to acetyl ovine CRF (4-41) approximately equal to alpha helical ovine CRF greater than ovine CRF much greater than ovine CRF (1-39) approximately equal to ovine CRF (7-41)] was consistent with their affinities for CRF receptors in the brain and their relative potencies in stimulating pituitary adrenocorticotropic hormone secretion in vitro. The putative CRF receptor antagonist, alpha helical ovine CRF (9-41), did not stimulate adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (cAMP) production but was able to attenuate the stimulation by various concentrations of rat CRF. The regional distribution of 125I-Tyr(o)-ovine CRF binding (olfactory bulb greater than frontoparietal cortex approximately equal to cerebellum greater than hypothalamus greater than striatum greater than or equal to midbrain greater than hippocampus greater than or equal to spinal cord) did not correspond with the regional degree of CRF receptor-mediated stimulation of adenylate cyclase (frontoparietal cortex greater than olfactory bulb greater than or equal to cerebellum greater than midbrain greater than or equal to hippocampus greater than striatum greater than or equal to hypothalamus greater than spinal cord). In addition, marked differences were observed in the ability of forskolin to potentiate CRF-stimulated cAMP production in the various brain areas examined. In summary, these data demonstrate that at least one of the second-messenger systems mediating the effects of CRF in the CNS involves stimulation of cAMP production and provides further support for a neurotransmitter role for this neuropeptide in the brain. Significant differences in the regulation of CRF-stimulated cAMP production and the disparity between CRF receptor number and receptor-mediated adenylate cyclase activity in discrete regions of the rat CNS suggest that some populations of CRF receptors in the brain may be functionally coupled to alternative signal transduction mechanisms.
GABAB binding sites in rat spinal cord have been detected by receptor autoradiography using 3H-GABA in the presence of isoguvacine. The sites could be demonstrated throughout the spinal cord grey matter. The maximum concentration of GABAB sites occurred in lamina II with substantial amounts in other laminae of the dorsal horn. Much lower levels were detected in the ventral horn. Unilateral rhizotomy reduced the number of GABAB sites in the dorsal horn without affecting levels in the ventral horn. The greatest reduction occurred in lamina II with 18% loss 2 days after surgery, 23% after 4 days, 25% after 6 days, and 48% after 15 days. The change after 15 days was comparable to that produced 4 months after neonatal capsaicin administration (50 mg/kg). The only apparent difference between rhizotomy and capsaicin treatment occurred in lamina IV, where rhizotomy produced a greater reduction than capsaicin. 3H-Neurotensin binding in sections from the same animals was unaltered after rhizotomy, indicating a lack of change in the populations of neurons containing neurotensin-binding sites. This would support the view that up to 50% of GABAB binding sites are located on nerve terminals. The greater reduction in lamina IV after rhizotomy would suggest that GABAB sites may be present on large-diameter afferent fibres that terminate in this region as well as on smaller-diameter C and A delta fibres.
The objective of the present study was to characterize the morphology of serotoninergic axons in cerebral cortex of the rat and to determine whether dissimilar axon terminals arise from the dorsal vs. the median raphe nuclei. The anterograde tracer PHA-L was administered by iontophoresis into the dorsal (DR) and median (MR) raphe nuclei, and the morphologic features of the respective axonal projections from raphe to forebrain were analyzed. We have observed consistent structural differences between the axons from these two nuclei. Anterogradely labeled axons which arise from cells in the MR are characterized by large, spherical varicosities (type M axons) and by variations in axonal diameter. In contrast, DR fibers are very fine and typically have small, pleomorphic varicosities that are granular or fusiform in shape (type D axons). Similar features of serotonin (5-HT) axon morphology are also evident in 5-HT immunocytochemical preparations. In addition to structural differences, there is a differential topographic distribution of MR vs. DR fibers, with MR axons concentrated in particular areas of limbic cortex such as dentate gyrus, posterior cingulate, and entorhinal areas as well as in parietal cortex. Immunofluorescence with dual labels shows that over two-thirds of the raphe-cortical axons are serotoninergic. The dissimilarities in axon morphology indicate that individual raphe nuclei may form different patterns of synaptic organization. Based on the evidence that the dorsal and median raphe nuclei give rise to morphologically different axon terminals, we conclude that 5-HT axons in cortex may be subdivided into two distinct projections. This proposal is in accord with other, recent data showing that the two axon types have different pharmacologic properties and are likely to be functionally different.

An experimental examination was made of some paradigms designed to isolate the opponent-colour system at increment threshold. The effectiveness of a uniform white conditioning field spatially coincident with a 1.05-deg uniform test field was assessed by measuring intensity thresholds for simple detection and for colour discrimination. Values were obtained both by a method of adjustment and by a two-interval forced-choice procedure. For sufficiently high luminances of the conditioning field (3000 td or greater) little or no difference was found between simple-detection and colour-discrimination thresholds over the critical test-flash spectral range 520-620 nm, implying that the paradigm produced almost complete isolation of the opponent-colour system at increment threshold. A control experiment in which thresholds were obtained for a conditioning field larger than the test field gave less satisfactory isolation; near 580 nm the luminance system was found to be at least 0.3 log unit more sensitive than the opponent-colour system. A comparison was also made of the spatially coincident field paradigm with a paradigm in which a modified test stimulus of low temporal and spatial frequency content was presented on a large conditioning field. Test spectral sensitivity curves for simple detection obtained by a method of adjustment showed little difference in effectiveness in opponent-colour isolation.
The determination of threshold sensitivities of cat retinal ganglion cells to 452 nm-blue and 578 nm-yellow narrow-band lights were undertaken prior to the mapping of the rod- and cone-mediated receptive field centres. In some brisk sustained on-centre retinal ganglion cells two distinct and spatially separated regions were noted such that one region was maximally sensitive to 452 nm-blue and the other to 578 nm-yellow lights. The two wavelength-dependent regions of maximal sensitivity are presumably related to asymmetries between rod- and cone-mediated inputs, rather than between inputs mediated by different classes of cones and correspond, respectively, to the loci of the rod- and cone-mediated centres.
In the goldfish retina, H1 horizontal cells, which receive input predominantly from red sensitive cone photoreceptors, possess a single high-affinity uptake mechanism for gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA). This GABA uptake is enhanced by light stimulation, which hyperpolarizes the H1 cells. The regulation of this uptake mechanism was examined in isolated horizontal cells by measuring the accumulation of exogenously supplied 3H-GABA. Solutions containing elevated external K+ or glutamate were used to quantitatively depolarize the cells to reveal that the potential-sensitive GABA uptake is maximal under hyperpolarizing conditions and minimal with depolarization. The driving force for GABA uptake is derived from the Na+ electrochemical gradient, with approximately 2 Na+ ions being cotransported with each molecule of GABA. The results presented suggest that the uptake mechanism permits the synaptic concentration of GABA to be regulated by the membrane potential of the H1 horizontal cells. This, then permits the presynaptic horizontal cell to modulate the synaptic concentration of transmitter in this tonically active synapse.


Monoclonal antibody 5B4 recognizes a large (approximately 185,000-255,000 Da) developmentally regulated membrane glycoprotein, whose expression on fetal rat neurons is coincident with neuronal sprouting. By the use of two prokaryotic-derived probes specific for recognizing alpha-2,8-linked polysialosyl units, we demonstrate the presence of this unusual carbohydrate moiety (a characteristic of neural cell adhesion molecules, NCAMs) on the fetal form of the 5B4 antigen. The 5B4 antigens expressed in adult rat brain (approximately 140,000 and 180,000 Da) do not contain polysialic acid.


We describe a new method for successive immunofluorescence detection of multiple peptides in single paraffin tissue sections. Immunoglobulins were inactivated at 130 degrees C after each labeling step while tissues were protected with a mixture of phosphate-buffered saline and glycerin. The feasibility of the method is demonstrated by double-staining of rat pituitary corticotrophs with anti-ACTH[1-24] and anti-ACTH[17-39] antiserum. The method is applicable to brain tissue, since single neurons of ovine paraventricular hypothalamus could be triple stained with anti-vasopressin, anti-neurophysins I and II, and anti-CRF antiserum. The usual absorption controls and crossreactivity tests, as well as peptide staining, can be performed on the same tissue section. This new labeling procedure should prove useful in endocrinology, clinical pathology, and the neurosciences.
Traumatic head injury and stroke affect millions of persons in the United States each year. Neuroscience nurses have the unique opportunity to be involved in collaborative research projects concerning these health problems. The goal of much research on head injury and stroke is to increase the qualitative survival of patients. This paper describes three collaborative clinical research projects that have involved neuroscience nurses. How nurses have influenced and been influenced by various aspects of these projects, the roles they played in the projects, and associated nursing implications are discussed.
To fulfill social contracts to those suffering from neurological disease or trauma and to thrive as professionals, neuroscience nurses must enter the political arena. To do so requires an understanding of policy, politics, and policymaking in our society. Social changes affecting neuroscience nursing, including increases in the aged and in minority populations and changes in state and local health care policies are discussed. Ways for neuroscience nurses to become politically active are presented.
The elements of an algorithm are presented which predicts for some simple forms (circles and ellipses) the kinematic and figural aspects of the trajectories of the human wrist when these are drawn in any arbitrary plane of free, three-dimensional space. The algorithm is based on theoretical considerations and experimental data and specifies in a unique way the angular motion at the shoulder and elbow joints by utilizing a coordinate transformation, which is only approximate, between the chosen extrinsic (trajectory) and intrinsic (joint angles) parameters. A way to extend the use of this algorithm to generate any arbitrary complex movement in all possible planes of space is also suggested.
The results of localized electrical stimulation of the teleostean tectum indicate the presence within each tectal lobe of separate motor areas mediating ipsilateral turning, contralateral turning, and rolling movements. Stimulation of caudal regions produced larger turning circles than stimulation of rostral sites. Both these sets of observations conflict with the retinotopic map. Stimulation sites connected with turning and rolling movements were mostly located in the upper layer of the tectum. Other kinds of movement including aggressive behaviour, escape movements, head dipping, and forward swimming were obtained by stimulating the deeper tectal sites and subtectal areas. These results suggest that the tectum may be differentiated into areas with specific motor functions and afferent connections. This has important consequences for studies on optic nerve regeneration and neuronal specificity.
The present study was aimed at determining how transformations in fiber order establish a retinal topography in the optic tract of adult Carassius auratus. Horseradish peroxidase was applied to the optic nerve or retina, and the pathways of labeled axons originating from retinal annuli or wedges were analysed in reconstructed serial-sections and wholeamounts of the optic pathway. The age-related fiber order of the optic tract involves a rotation of the optic pathway that begins near the chiasm, continues through the optic tract as it wraps around the brain, and extends through the brachia. The relative order of laminae, in which each lamina is composed of age-related axons, is maintained in the optic pathway. The laminae add systematically onto the optic tract in a mediolateral direction with the oldest lamina forming the medial margin. Retinal sector order in the optic tract is established by the rearrangement of axons from each lamina. These rearrangements begin at the chiasm and, in part, involve transposition of axons originating from the ventrotemporal and dorsonasal sectors of the retina. The transformations achieve a fiber order in the optic tract that is appropriate for entry into the tectum. It is proposed that the final retinal topography of the optic tract is determined by the combined influences of selective affinities along the neural axis and substrate guidance mechanisms, the latter being mediated largely by the oldest axons of the fasciculus medialis tractus opticus.
PC12 (phaeochromocytoma derived) cells possess the catecholamine synthesizing enzymes as well as the ability to store and release the catecholamines in response to K+. However, their monoamine oxidase activity and catecholamine release in response to tyramine has not been examined previously. PC12 cells have monoamine oxidase activity which oxidizes type A (noradrenaline and serotonin) and type A-B (dopamine, tyramine and kynuramine) substrates, and is selectively inhibited by clorgyline (IC50 approximately 10(-6) M). In contrast, PC12 cell monoamine oxidase hardly oxidizes phenylethylamine a type B substrate, and is relatively insensitive to inhibition by the selective monoamine oxidase type B inhibitor, 1-deprenyl (IC50 approximately 10(-6) M). By the above criteria it is apparent that the monoamine oxidase in PC12 is solely type A. The kinetics of the oxidase are similar to those of monoamine oxidase type A reported in other tissues including the adrenergic neuron, having apparent Km values of 400, 280, 170 and 227 microM for noradrenaline, dopamine, serotonin and tyramine. The apparent Km value for phenylethylamine is 235 microM. On the other hand, isolated chromaffin cells have the B form of monoamine oxidase with high affinity (Km approximately 25 microM) for phenylethylamine and low affinities for noradrenaline (Km approximately 1100 microM) and adrenaline (Km approximately 1700 microM). This enzyme form is selectively inactivated by the monoamine oxidase type B inhibitor, 1-deprenyl. In similar fashion to peripheral adrenergic neurons, PC12 cells share the capacity to express a tyramine releasable pool of catecholamines, a property entirely lacking in mature cultured chromaffin cells, even though the latter cells are capable of taking up tyramine by a cocaine sensitive process.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Input from the cerebellar fastigial nuclei to neurons at the lateral margin of the nuclei of the solitary tract, particularly to the area identified as the nucleus parasolitarius was investigated in acutely prepared, anesthetized dogs. Fastigial nucleus stimulation led to short latency excitation of nucleus parasolitarius units often followed by prolonged inhibition of spontaneous activity. Excitation from deep skeletal muscle afferents, converged on 25% of the spontaneously active units excited from the fastigial nuclei; these afferents originated primarily from the ipsilateral forelimb muscles. This study provides electrophysiological evidence for fastigial modulation of neurons previously demonstrated autoradiographically to receive presumed monosynaptic fastigial nucleus efferents. The convergence of forelimb muscle afferent information tentatively identified as being from Group Ia or Group II pressure stretch receptors suggests that the nucleus parasolitarius may be an integrative area for cerebellar, sensorimotor and/or autonomic information.
All our advanced, severe cases of Alzheimer's disease have dramatic cholinergic cell losses in the nucleus basalis of Meynert even after correction for cell or nucleoli shrinkage. There is a good correlation between choline acetyltransferase activity and &quot;healthy&quot; cell number in the nucleus basalis of Meynert. Half of the Alzheimer disease cases have markedly reduced cortical choline acetyltransferase activity in spite of preserved nucleus basalis of Meynert choline acetyltransferase activity, suggesting a deficiency of cortical origin and/or of axonal transport in Alzheimer disease. The relationship between cell loss in the various sub-divisions of the nucleus basalis of Meynert and plaque counts in corresponding and non-corresponding projection areas of the cortex has also been examined. Globally, this relation appears more obvious when cell loss in a sub-division of the nucleus basalis of Meynert is compared to plaque counts in its cortical projection area. However, the relation is discontinuous with few or no data to document the intermediary stages of the process, probably reflecting the severity of our Alzheimer disease cases.
Golgi-impregnated reticular neurons and multipolar giant neurons, the two main classes of neurons in the basal nucleus of Meynert and in the diagonal band nucleus, were investigated morphometrically in five cases of Alzheimer's disease, and compared to controls. Both degenerative as well as regenerative neuronal changes were observed in cases of Alzheimer's disease. Degenerative changes such as irregular swellings and the fragmentation of dendrites are most pronounced on reticular neurons but can also be detected to a lesser extent on multipolar giant neurons. Regenerative changes are restricted to reticular neurons. They are characterized by the appearance of perisomatic filopodia, by an increase in the size of cell soma, by an increase in the degree of dendritic arborization and spatial extension of the dendritic tree. These regenerative changes are probably signs of a compensatory mechanism which might be induced by degeneration in this area.
We have recently shown that the phorbol ester 12-O-tetradecanoyl-phorbol-13-acetate enhances the depolarization induced, calcium dependent release of [3H]dopamine from cultured brain neurons in the rat. In the present study the effects of 12-O-tetradecanoyl-phorbol-13-acetate on the kinetic parameters of depolarization induced calcium influx and on Ca2+ dependent neurotransmitter release and protein phosphorylation were investigated. Depolarization induced neurotransmitter release from the neurons occurs in two phases: an initial, fast release and a subsequent slow release. At low extracellular Ca2+, 12-O-tetradecanoyl-phorbol-13-acetate enhanced the quantity of fast release and in addition, increased the rate constant of the slow release. These effects mimicked the effects of increasing the extracellular Ca2+. Various phorbol derivatives known to activate the Ca2+ activated phospholipid dependent protein kinase (protein kinase C) were also able to enhance the stimulated release of [3H]dopamine from the neurons. 12-O-tetradecanoyl-phorbol-13-acetate induced the incorporation of 32Pi into a protein with an apparent molecular weight of 45,000 daltons regardless of depolarization or of the presence of Ca2+. In addition, 12-O-tetradecanoyl-phorbol-13-acetate induced in unstimulated neurons, Ca2+ dependent increase in the amount of 32Pi incorporated into a 43,000 dalton protein and decrease in the amount incorporated into a 55,000 dalton protein. These changes mimicked the Ca2+ dependent changes in protein phosphorylation which occur upon stimulation of the neurons. Kinetic studies of depolarization induced Ca2+ uptake by the neurons indicated that 12-O-tetradecanoyl-phorbol-13-acetate enhanced the maximal influx of Ca2+ through the voltage sensitive Ca2+ channels by 40%. The results indicate that 12-O-tetradecanoyl-phorbol-13-acetate acts primarily on the regulation of stimulated Ca2+ entry into the cells. Consequently neurotransmitter release at submaximal extracellular [Ca2+] is enhanced.
The effect of reserpine treatment on the neuropeptide Y content of the rat adrenal gland, heart, kidney and vasculature was studied using a specific radioimmunoassay. One hour after reserpine administration (5 mg/kg) the neuropeptide Y concentration in the adrenal gland was significantly reduced and after 4 h a similar reduction was seen in the heart and kidney. After 48 h, neuropeptide Y concentrations were reduced in all tissues. The greatest reduction occurred in the cardiac septum (77%) and the least in the inferior vena cava (25%). Phenoxybenzamine (2 mg/kg) also caused a reduction in neuropeptide Y concentrations which was less marked than after reserpine, except in the adrenal gland where it was similar. Cold stress caused no change in neuropeptide Y concentrations. The neuropeptide Y depletion induced by reserpine was compared to that following 6-hydroxydopamine. In the heart and pial arteries both drugs caused a similar neuropeptide Y depletion whilst in the pineal gland and renal artery 6-hydroxydopamine had more effect than reserpine. The implications of these results on NPY storage sites are discussed.
Neuropeptide Y has previously been detected in neurons throughout the rat brain and spinal cord. On histochemical grounds, the neuropeptide Y-containing cell bodies have been subdivided into two groups: those in the brain stem in which colocalization with noradrenaline and adrenaline has been demonstrated and those in other brain regions where no catecholamine coexistence is found. In this paper the regional distribution of neuropeptide Y has been investigated in the rat brain by a specific neuropeptide Y radioimmunoassay, before and after the destruction of catecholaminergic nerve terminals by the administration of intraventricular 6-hydroxydopamine. Despite massive reductions in brain catecholamines, the neuropeptide Y level was unchanged in the cerebral cortex, striatum, spinal cord and hippocampus. A minor reduction in neuropeptide Y was found in the hypothalamus. Reserpine treatment, which is known to deplete brain nerve terminal stores of catecholamines, likewise did not result in any loss of neuropeptide Y. Cold stress which increases noradrenergic turnover in the rat brain stem had no effect on neuropeptide Y levels. These results suggest that the bulk of neuropeptide Y in the rat brain and spinal cord may not be stored in catecholaminergic nerve terminals.
The process of reactive synaptogenesis has been demonstrated in several areas of the central nervous system, including the hippocampal dentate gyrus. After a complete unilateral entorhinal lesion, approximately 85% of the input to the outer two-thirds of the ipsilateral dentate molecular layer is lost. Bilateral fluctuations in synaptic density within non-denervated zones of the dentate molecular layer predict further alterations in neural circuitry at sites located transneuronally to the denervated dentate granule cells. Using quantitative electron microscopy, our study demonstrates a complete cycle of synapse loss and reacquisition within the ipsilateral but not contralateral CA4/hilus region of the hippocampal formation. This area is one of the terminal fields for the dentate granule cell mossy fiber axons. In addition the granule cell mossy fiber axons sprout during the postlesion time course and form a significantly increased number of new mossy fiber terminals within the ipsilateral and contralateral CA4/hilus area. Our results indicate that responses to brain injury may no longer be confined to a local denervated site, but probably include polyneuronal circuitry loops, which may encompass one or more areas of the central nervous system. Previous difficulties in providing a close behavioral or functional correlation to localized structural events may be explained by a more global brain response to an injury.
A quantitative study of the morphogenesis of granule and pyramidal cells was performed on Golgi-Cox preparations of the developing hippocampus of normal and hypothyroid rats, and hypothyroid rats given replacement thyroxine treatment. In the normal hippocampus, the volume of the cell body and the number of branching points on the apical and on the basal dendrites of pyramidal cells increased between 6 and 10 days after birth. The pyramidal cells of Ammon's horn showed a gradation from area CA1 to area CA4 of progressive differentiation. In thyroid-deficient rats, the arborization of the dendritic field of both granule and pyramidal cells was impaired, and for pyramidal cells the extent of the impairment depended on the position of the cells in the Ammon's horn, the cells of CA3-4 areas being the most affected. Treatment of hypothyroid rats with a physiological dose of thyroxine restored some of the morphological defects to normal, but others were altered beyond control levels, indicating that thyroid hormone differentially controls not only the measured indices of maturation but also that its influence depends on the position of the pyramidal cells. The observations were consistent with the concept that thyroid hormone is important in the establishment of the CA1 to CA4 gradient of pyramidal cell differentiation and in the development of the spatiotemporal relationship between pyramidal and granule cells of the hippocampus.
A quantitative autoradiographic histological study was carried out to examine mechanisms underlying the reduction in the rates of growth and of cell acquisition, including that of granule cells, in the dentate gyrus of hypothyroid rats. Thyroid deficiency in early life had no effect on the replication of intrinsic cells present in the polymorph and granular layers. The pyknotic index was also normal in the &quot;proliferative zone&quot;, polymorph layer and granule cell layer, indicating that thyroid hormone had no effect on the survival of replicating, migrating or maturing granule cells. By contrast, the arrival of migrating cells from the &quot;proliferative zone&quot; to the granular layer was severely retarded in thyroid deficiency. This deficit was rapidly restored after a physiological dose of thyroxine given to hypothyroid rats. The present findings are consistent with our previous proposal that the role of thyroid hormone in the formation and/or the maintenance of nerve cells is related to changes in either cell migration or maturation, rather than to alterations in the replication of germinal cells.
The organization of the visual cortico-striato-nigral pathway in the rat has been investigated in two sets of experiments using anterograde autoradiographic tracing techniques. First, in one group of animals, injections of tritiated amino acids were placed throughout the visual cortex to demonstrate the visual corticostriatal pathway. The results indicate that visual corticostriatal fibres terminate in a distinctive clustered pattern throughout the entire length of the ipsilateral dorsomedial striatum. The projection shows a longitudinal topographic organization with cortical loci projecting onto narrow longitudinal regions of the dorsomedial striatum. In addition to the ipsilateral projection, a substantially smaller contralateral visual corticostriatal projection was also demonstrated. In the second set of experiments, the visual corticorecipient region of the striatum demonstrated in the first set of experiments was injected with tritiated amino acids to demonstrate the &quot;visual&quot; striatonigral projection. The results indicate that striatonigral fibres from the dorsomedial striatum project throughout the rostrocaudal extent of the ventral region of the pars reticulata. As with the visual corticostriatal pathway, the projection shows a longitudinal topographic organization with striatal loci projecting onto longitudinal regions of the ventral pars reticulata; the most rostral regions of the dorsal striatum project to the most medial regions of the ventral pars reticulata and, likewise, successively more caudal regions of the dorsal striatum project to successively more lateral regions of the ventral pars reticulata. In addition to the main projection to the ventral pars reticulata, a second smaller component of the striatonigral pathway was traced to adjacent regions of the dorsal pars reticulata and ventral pars compacta. These findings provide evidence of a visual cortico-striato-nigral pathway to both the pars reticulata and pars compacta in the rat. It is suggested that the major projection onto the ventral pars reticulata may provide an input onto nigrotectal neurons and thereby complete an indirect visual corticotectal connection mediated via links in the basal ganglia.

The distribution of binding sites for calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) in rat brain were studied using in vitro autoradiography. In a radioreceptor assay using [125I]human calcitonin gene-related peptide as the radioligand, with cerebellar cortical membranes, rat calcitonin gene-related peptide had a binding affinity constant of 1.16 +/- 0.23 X 10(10) M-1 and a site concentration of 43.4 +/- 3.4 fmol/mg protein. In this system, human calcitonin gene-related peptide had a binding affinity constant of 3.9 +/- 0.7 X 10(9) M-1 whereas salmon calcitonin was very weak with a binding affinity constant of only 6.8 +/- 4.0 X 10(5) M-1. CGRP binding localized by in vitro autoradiography, using [125I]rat calcitonin gene-related peptide, had a characteristic distinct distribution in the rat brain. There were high concentrations of binding found over the accumbens nucleus, the organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis, ventral caudate putamen, median eminence, the arcuate nucleus, lateral amygdaloid nucleus and lateral mammillary nucleus, the superior and inferior colliculi, pontine nuclei, molecular and Purkinje cell layers of the cerebellar cortex, the nucleus of the solitary tract, the inferior olivary nuclei, hypoglossal complex and the vestibular and cochlear nuclei. The distribution of these binding sites suggests multiple roles for CGRP in the central nervous system including auditory, visual, gustatory and somatosensory processing, and in neuroendocrine control.
The release of [3H]gamma-aminobutyric acid continuously synthesized from [3H]glutamine was studied in the striatum of halothane-anaesthetized rats superfused with a push-pull cannula. The levels of spontaneously released [3H]GABA were identical in all striatal regions examined, but were found to be higher at the junction between the striatum and the globus pallidus. Superfusion with a medium enriched in K+ ions induced a concentration-dependent increase in [3H]GABA release. Superfusion with a Ca2+-free medium did not affect the spontaneous outflow of [3H]GABA but sharply reduced the release of [3H]GABA evoked by 30 mM K+. Locally applied tetrodotoxin (50 microM) decreased slightly the spontaneous release of [3H]GABA (-22%). When acetylcholine (50 or 500 microM) was added to a superfusion medium containing eserine (50 microM), the spontaneous release of [3H]GABA was enhanced in the ventral but not in the dorsal region of the striatum. The local application of 2,3,4,5-tetrahydro, 7,8,-dihydroxy, 1-phenyl, 1-H, 3-benzazepine (10 microM), a dopaminergic agonist acting preferentially on D1 receptors increased the release of [3H]GABA in the dorsal striatum (+32%) but decreased it slightly (-19%) in the ventral striatum. 3-(2-(N-3 hydroxyphenylethyl)N-propylamino)ethyl-phenol (50 microM), a preferential D2 receptor agonist, decreased [3H]GABA release when it was applied dorsally (-23%) but not ventrally in the striatum. It is concluded that the regulation of the release of [3H]GABA by acetylcholine and dopaminergic drugs is different in the dorsal and ventral regions of the striatum. These differences may be related to the existence of subpopulations of GABA neurons and may well have functional implications as suggested by behavioural studies.
A fundamental question in central nervous system development is the timing of synaptogenesis in relation to invasion of targets by afferent axons. A related question is how growth cones transform into synaptic terminals. These two aspects of axon maturation were examined in developing mouse cerebellum, by labeling single axons with horseradish peroxidase, to study their form and cytology, and by immunocytochemical staining of a synaptic vesicle antigen, synapsin I, a phosphoprotein found on synaptic vesicles in all mature CNS synapses. From embryonic day 16 to postnatal day 3, horseradish peroxidase-labeled afferent axons extend well into the cerebellum and have simple forms. At embryonic day 16, axon growing tips are synapsin I-negative. Synapsin I is first expressed at embryonic day 17, and by embryonic day 18, fibers are stained throughout the cerebellum. Synapsin I expression coincides with a general increase in synaptic specializations, although growing tips continue to have the cytology of growth cones. During the period that axons have primitive shapes, synapsin I is distributed throughout the terminal arbor, corresponding to the presence of small vesicles along neurite lengths, even at non-synaptic sites. After postnatal day 3, when synaptic terminals develop into stereotypic shapes and engage in characteristic synaptic relations, synapsin I is restricted to boutons. Thus, the synapse-specific protein synapsin I is expressed in fetal mouse brain, long before nerve endings have the structure and connections of adult brain. In cerebellar axons, the expression of this protein follows axon arrival, coincides with the appearance of elementary synapses, and accompanies the transformation of growing tips into stereotypic synaptic boutons. The time course of expression of synapsin I, a phosphoprotein that may be involved in synaptic efficacy, suggests that transmitter release may influence early axon-target cell interactions.
The human temporal cortex contains a type of interneuron, identified by Golgi impregnation which, like the axo-axonic or chandelier cells found in animals, establishes Gray's type II synaptic contacts exclusively with the axon initial segments of pyramidal cells. Each terminal segment is composed of 3-12 boutons to form a &quot;chandelier&quot;-like appearance. For the two human axo-axonic cells analysed in this study we could identify 269 and 86 bouton rows respectively, which represents an equivalent number of postsynaptic pyramidal cells. A terminal bouton row from one of these Golgi-impregnated cells was shown to be in synaptic contact with the axon initial segment of a Golgi-impregnated pyramidal cell. The very specific nature of the target of axo-axonic cells, together with their highly divergent axonal arborization, means that they are ideally placed to control the output of a large population of pyramidal cells. Since previous studies in animals have shown the GABAergic nature of axo-axonic cells it is possible that human axo-axonic cells could be involved in the generation of epileptic activity or in the control of its propagation.
Using intracellular recordings from pyramidal neurons in isolated slices of rat cerebral cortex epileptiform discharges evoked (1) in the presence of gamma-aminobutyric acid antagonists, and (2) in the absence of Mg2+ were compared. Depolarization shift responses recorded in the presence of bath applied picrotoxin, or electrophoretically applied picrotoxin or bicuculline, were similar in many respects to depolarization shifts reported previously, except that they could be evoked by stimuli subthreshold for evoking discernible postsynaptic potentials in these experiments. Large depolarizations evoked by repetitive activation of an N-methylaspartate receptor mediated synapse in the absence of Mg2+, displayed several properties similar to those of depolarization shifts evoked in the presence of gamma-aminobutyric acid antagonists, i.e. similar shape, latency, inability to follow high repetition rates and a similar voltage relation, suggesting activation of the same cellular mechanism. &quot;Slow spikes&quot; evoked as part of the response to electrophoretically applied N-methylaspartate were augmented, i.e. they were replaced by larger, longer, more complex events, when gamma-aminobutyric acid antagonists were applied. The potentiated response, evoked in the absence of Mg2+, was dependent on the activation of an N-methylaspartate receptor mediated synapse and was blocked by N-methylaspartate antagonists. In contrast, depolarization shifts could be evoked in the presence of large doses of N-methylaspartate antagonists, when gamma-aminobutyric acid antagonists were applied. Spontaneous depolarizations similar to depolarization shifts were recorded when cells were exposed to low, tonic, electrophoretic applications of excitatory amino acids under control conditions. In addition, some potentiation of the N-methylaspartate receptor mediated excitatory postsynaptic potential was achieved in the presence of Mg2+ when cells were depolarized by 10-20 mV. Depolarization shifts evoked when bicuculline was applied electrophoretically to different parts of the dendritic field, some hundreds of microns from the soma, differed in shape, latency and time course and the depolarization shift evoked when bicuculline was applied at one site summed with the depolarization shift evoked when it was applied elsewhere. We conclude that different inputs are required to activate the responses evoked in the presence of gamma-aminobutyric acid antagonists and in the absence of Mg2+. The possibility that both involve activation of dendritic Ca2+ currents and that the magnitude of the response depends on the proportion of the dendritic field activated, is discussed.
A subpopulation of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) containing neurons was reported to contain cholecystokinin-immunoreactive material in the visual cortex of cat [Somogyi et al., J. Neurosci. (1984) 4, 2590-2603]. In the present study pre-embedding immunocytochemistry was used to identify which of the several types of presumed GABAergic nonpyramidal cells in areas 17 and 18 contain cholecystokinin immunoreactivity. Most of the cholecystokinin-immunoreactive somata were found in layers II-III, they were less frequent in layers I and VI, and relatively rare in layers IV and V. The distribution and density of the axon terminals resembled that of the cell bodies. Two well defined types of cholecystokinin-immunoreactive neuron were distinguished: (1) double bouquet cells in layers II-III with vertically projecting axons, and (2) small basket cells with local axons either restricted to layers II-III, or descending to layer V. Additional cholecystokinin-positive cells showed features of bitufted or multipolar neurons in layers II-VI and horizontal cells in layer I, but these cells could be defined less well due to partial staining. Cholecystokinin-immunoreactive dendrites were found to run horizontally in layer I for several hundred micrometers. Some of the cholecystokinin-immunoreactive cells in layer VI had very long dendrites ascending radially up to layer III, as did their axons. A few cholecystokinin-immunoreactive cells appeared to have two axons and this was confirmed by electron microscopy. All cholecystokinin-immunoreactive neurons and terminals were separated from the basal lamina of blood vessels by glial endfeet. Random samples of boutons from each layer as well as identified terminals traced to their origin from local neurons were examined in the electron microscope. All of the boutons established symmetrical (type II) synaptic contacts with dendritic shafts, spines or somata. Quantitative electron microscopy of the postsynaptic targets of double bouquet cells and small basket cells demonstrated clear differences between these two types of neuron; basket cells having a higher proportion of their terminals in synaptic contact with somata. The findings that several distinct types of cortical neurons, as defined by their synaptic connections, contain cholecystokinin-immunoreactive material and that identified axons of all examined neurons form type II synaptic contacts suggests that the majority, if not all cholecystokinin-positive boutons forming type II contacts originate from local cortical cells. The distribution of targets postsynaptic to cholecystokinin-positive neurons is compared to those of cells labelled by other methods.
Halothane-anaesthetized cats implanted with three push-pull cannulae were used to estimate the effects of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) application (either 10(-3) M or 10(-5) M) into the left motor nuclei of the thalamus (either ventralis medialis, or ventralis lateralis) on the firing rate of dopamine cells in the left substantia nigra (caudomedial part) and on the release of [3H]dopamine continuously synthesized from [3H]tyrosine, in the left substantia nigra (caudomedial part) and the left caudate nucleus. Preliminary experiments were performed to establish the electrophysiological characteristics of dopamine cells and non-dopamine cells in the pars compacta (mediocaudal part of substantia nigra) in groups of animals with the electrode inserted within the nigral push-pull cannula or with the electrode inserted in the absence of a push-pull cannula. Dopamine and non-dopamine cells were distinguished according to several criteria (shape of the spike, duration of spike, frequency of discharge, conduction velocity estimated following antidromic activation from the caudate nucleus for dopamine cells or from the ventralis medialis for non-dopamine cells). Data obtained from recordings made within the push-pull cannula were identical to those obtained in the absence of the cannula. In addition both the intravenous injection of amphetamine or its local application (10(-6) M) in the substantia nigra inhibited the firing rate of dopamine cells. When GABA was applied at 10(-3) M for 30 min into the ventralis medialis-ventralis lateralis the multi-unit activity of thalamic cells recorded within the push-pull cannula was inhibited. Single unit activity of dopamine cells was also inhibited and [3H]dopamine release was reduced in the caudate nucleus and increased in the substantia nigra. These results suggest that under these conditions, dopamine release from nerve terminals depended upon nerve activity and that dopamine released from dendrites inhibited the activity of dopamine cells. When GABA was applied at 10(-5) M for 30 min into the ventralis medialis-ventralis lateralis, multi-unit activity of thalamic cells was increased, single-unit activity of dopamine cells was inhibited and [3H]dopamine release was enhanced in the ipsilateral caudate nucleus and not affected in the left substantia nigra, demonstrating that in this situation the release of dopamine from nerve terminals was not dependent on the firing rate of dopamine cells. In addition, these results indicated that the activity of dopamine cells was not always dependent on the dendritic release of dopamine.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
To identify the putative transmitter of large basket and clutch cells in the cat's visual cortex, an antiserum raised against GABA coupled to bovine serum albumen by glutaraldehyde and a postembedding, electron microscopic immunogold procedure were used. Two basket and four clutch cells were revealed by intracellular injection of horseradish peroxidase. They were identified on the basis of the distribution of their processes and their synaptic connections. Large basket cells terminate mainly in layer III, while clutch cells which have a more restricted axon, terminate mainly in layer IV. Both types of neuron have a small radial projection. They establish type II synaptic contacts and about 20-30% of their synapses are made with the somata of other neurons, the rest with dendrites and dendritic spines. Altogether 112 identified, HRP-filled boutons, the dendrites of three clutch cells and myelinated axons of both basket and clutch cells were tested for the presence of GABA. They were all immunopositive. The postsynaptic neurons received synapses from numerous other GABA-positive boutons in addition to the horseradish peroxidase-filled ones. Dendritic spines that received a synapse from a GABA-positive basket or clutch cell bouton also received a type I synaptic contact from a GABA-negative bouton. A few of the postsynaptic dendrites, but none of the postsynaptic somata, were immunoreactive for GABA. The fine structural characteristics of the majority of postsynaptic targets suggested that they were pyramidal and spiny stellate cells. These results provide direct evidence for the presence of immunoreactive GABA in identified basket and clutch cells and strongly suggest that GABA is a neurotransmitter at their synapses. The laminar distribution of the synaptic terminals of basket and clutch cells demonstrates that some GABAergic neurons with similar target specificity segregate into different laminae, and that the same GABAergic cells can take part in both horizontal and radial interactions.
Single and double electrode voltage clamp techniques have been used to analyse the leakage conductance of the goldfish Mauthner cell. The results indicate that the input conductance of this neuron is maximal at the resting potential, having an average value of 4.68 microS. Approximately 50% of this conductance is voltage dependent and could be inactivated by large hyperpolarizing command pulses (30-50 mV magnitude) of 20-35 ms duration. The magnitude and apparent time constant of the inactivation are both functions of membrane potential, such that the relaxation of the inward current increased and occurred more rapidly for greater hyperpolarizations. The presence of instantaneous inward tail currents when the imposed voltage steps were terminated and membrane potential was returned to the resting level indicated that the conductance mechanism inactivated during hyperpolarization had generated a small outward current at the resting level. Thus, we propose that a major fraction of the Mauthner cell's input conductance is a voltage-dependent K+ conductance. Hyperpolarizing inactivation is a feature of an inward K+ rectifier in other cell types, and when the recording microelectrode was located in the Mauthner cell lateral dendrite, it was possible to demonstrate characteristics consistent with rectification, namely a low conductance for outward depolarizing currents and a high conductance for inward currents. The inward rectifier of the Mauthner cell is different from that of other neurons in that it is already maximally activated at the resting potential and therefore is a major determinant of that parameter. In addition, its activation and inactivation kinetics are quite fast.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The effects of several dopaminergic agonists and antagonists on the spontaneous release of [3H]gamma-aminobutyric acid were investigated in the dorsal striatum of halothane-anaesthetized rats. A push-pull cannula was implanted and the tissue was superfused continuously with a physiological medium containing [3H]glutamine, the precursor of [3H]GABA. Drugs were added to the superfusion medium. 2-Amino,6,7-dihydroxy,1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-naphtalene (ADTN, a mixed D1 and D2 receptor agonist) and D-amphetamine (a drug that enhances the release of endogenous dopamine) increased the release of 3H-GABA. The effect of ADTN was blocked by a D1 antagonist [R-(+),8-chloro, 7-hydroxy,2,3,4,5-tetrahydro,3-methyl,5-phenyl,1-H,3-benzazepine (SCH 23390)] but not by a D2 antagonist (S-sulpiride). Furthermore the stimulation of D1 receptors either by 2,3,4,5-tetrahydro,7,8-dihydroxy,1-phenyl,1-H,3-benzazepine or by D-amphetamine in the presence of S-sulpiride also enhanced the release of [3H]GABA. On the other hand, a selective D2 receptor agonist (3-(2-(N-3-hydroxy-phenylethyl)N-propylamino)ethyl-phenol) decreased the release of [3H]GABA. This effect was blocked in the presence of S-sulpiride. By itself the D1 receptor antagonist (SCH 23390) decreased the release of [3H]GABA whereas the D2 receptor antagonist (S-sulpiride) had no effect. It was concluded that stimulation of D1 and D2 receptors produces opposing effects on the spontaneous release of [3H]GABA in the dorsal striatum. Stimulation of D1 receptors facilitates the release of [3H]GABA whilst stimulation of D2 receptors inhibits it. The effect of D1 receptor stimulation appears to be predominant, and endogenous dopamine may activate tonically the release of GABA through these receptors in our experimental conditions.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Five nmol ethylcholine mustard aziridinium ion, a potential cholinotoxin was administered bilaterally into the cerebral ventricles of male rats at coordinates A -1.5, L +/- 1.5 and V -4.0 mm. The dorsal hippocampi were processed for choline acetyltransferase, serotonin or tyrosine hydroxylase immunocytochemistry 7 days after the injection to determine the specificity of the effect of the drug. Intrinsic choline acetyltransferase positive cells were also found after treatment, while the overall staining of fibres decreased. No change was observed in staining for either serotonin or tyrosine hydroxylase. Using the electron microscope, degenerating nerve terminals, with recognizable synaptic specializations were encountered, most frequently in stratum oriens and occasionally, degenerated CA3 pyramidal cells were observed. These findings are consistent with the neurochemical data obtained in parallel experiments with the morphological study in which it was found that acetylcholine content of the hippocampus was reduced by 73.4% 7 days after ethylcholine mustard aziridinium ion treatment, while dopamine, noradrenaline and serotonin levels were unaffected. Furthermore, the morphological studies indicate that ethylcholine mustard aziridinium ion can exert selective effects on the cholinergic system of dorsal hippocampus without significantly altering its cytoarchitecture.
In confirmation of previous results, experiments in halothane-anaesthetized cats implanted with push-pull cannulae showed that the unilateral application of GABA (10(-5) M for 30 min) into the left thalamic motor nuclei (either ventralis medialis, or ventralis lateralis) markedly stimulated the release of [3H]dopamine continuously synthesized from [3H]tyrosine in both caudate nuclei and in the contralateral substantia nigra. Three types of experiments confirmed that the changes in [3H]dopamine release evoked in both caudate nuclei resulted from a presynaptic facilitation mediated by the bilateral corticostriatal glutamatergic projection: The constant delivery of 2-amino 6-trifluoromethoxy benzothiazole (PK 26124) (10(-5) M) to the left caudate nucleus prevented the increased release of [3H]DA evoked by application of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) (10(-5)M) into ventralis medialis-ventralis lateralis while an enhanced release of [3H]dopamine still occurred in the contralateral caudate nucleus. Since PK 26124 is an antagonist of glutamatergic transmission, the presynaptic facilitation may involve glutamatergic neurons. Single unit recordings of dopamine cells in the contralateral substantia nigra indicated that the increased release of [3H]dopamine from dendrites evoked by the application of GABA (10(-5)M) into ventralis medialis-ventralis lateralis was associated with a reduction in the firing rate of dopamine cells. Thus, the enhanced release of [3H]dopamine in the contralateral caudate nucleus may involve a presynaptic facilitatory process. Finally, the unilateral lesion of the sensory motor cortex made prior to the superfusion of caudate nucleus with [3H]tyrosine prevented the responses evoked in the two caudate nuclei by the application of GABA (10(-4) M) into ventralis medialis-ventralis lateralis.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The local effects of various concentrations of L-glutamate (from 10(-8) M up to 10(-3) M) on the release of [3H]dopamine synthesized continuously from [3H]tyrosine were examined in the caudate nucleus of halothane-anaesthetized cats implanted with push-pull cannulae. When used at a concentration of 10(-8) M or 10(-7) M, L-glutamate stimulated the release of [3H]dopamine from nerve terminals of the nigrostriatal dopamine neurons. This effect was still observed in the presence of tetrodotoxin (5 X 10(-7) M) but it was antagonized by 2-amino 6-trifluoromethoxy benzothiazole (PK 26124) (10(-5) M), an antagonist dopamine nerve terminals. While no significant change in the release of [3H]dopamine was observed with 10(-6) M L-glutamate, higher concentrations (from 10(-5) M to 10(-3) M) of the amino acid produced a long-lasting reduction in the [3H]transmitter release. This latter effect was also antagonized by PK 26124 (10(-5) M) but, unlike that observed with 10(-8) M L-glutamate, it did not persist in the presence of tetrodotoxin (5 X 10(-7) M). On the contrary, a marked stimulation of the release of [3H]dopamine was seen in the presence of this neurotoxin. The reduction in the release of [3H]dopamine produced by 10(-4) M L-glutamate was also antagonized by bicuculline (10(-5) M) and moreover a marked stimulation of [3H]dopamine release took place in the presence of this gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) antagonist. Therefore, high concentrations of L-glutamate exerted an inhibitory presynaptic control on [3H]dopamine release which seemed to be indirect and mediated partly by GABAergic neurons. Since a sustained reduction in the spontaneous release of [3H]dopamine was seen in the presence of PK 26124, the corticostriatal glutamatergic neurons appeared to exert a tonic facilitatory presynaptic influence on dopamine release. This effect was important since it represented 40% of the tetrodotoxin-sensitive release of the [3H]transmitter. The direct (stimulatory) and indirect (inhibitory) presynaptic controls on dopamine release mediated by corticostriatal glutamatergic fibres are discussed in light of previous findings and of the anatomical organization of the caudate nucleus.
The glutamate immunoreactivity of different cell populations was compared quantitatively in the cerebellar cortex of cat, using an antiserum raised against glutamate coupled to bovine serum albumin by glutaraldehyde. Neuronal and glial processes were identified on serial electron microscopic sections which were processed by a postembedding immunogold procedure. The surface density of colloidal gold particles was used for statistical comparison of the relative levels of glutamate in cell populations, or in different parts of the same population. The terminals of mossy and parallel fibres had significantly higher levels of glutamate immunoreactivity than Golgi cell terminals, granule cell dendritic digits, Purkinje cell dendrites or dendritic spines. Golgi cell terminals were identified by their position and GABA immunoreactivity as revealed by immunogold in serial sections. The dendritic digits of the putative glutamatergic granule cells had significantly higher glutamate immunoreactivity than did Purkinje cell dendrites and dendritic spines. Glial cell processes in the molecular layer had lower level of glutamate immunoreactivity than any of the neuronal processes. The results demonstrate that the highest levels of glutamate immunoreactivity occur in mossy and parallel fibre presynaptic terminals that are known to have an excitatory effect. This supports previous suggestions that glutamate may be a transmitter at these synapses. The measurement of the levels of putative amino acid transmitters in identified neuronal populations, or in different parts of the same population, could have wide applications in studies on the chemical neuroanatomy of the nervous system.
The distribution of axoplasmic organelles at consecutive nodes of Ranvier was investigated light- and electronmicroscopically in horseradish peroxidase-transporting muscle nerve fibres of the adult cat. Three main and apparently temporally interrelated distribution patterns were noted. These patterns were referred to as A, B and C. The axoplasm of type-A and type-B nodes was highly segregated with regard to the proximodistal distribution of certain organelles. At type-A nodes horseradish peroxidase-positive membrane limited bodies and horseradish peroxidase-negative vesiculotubular membrane profiles were accumulated just distal and just proximal to the nodal mid-level, respectively. At B nodes a disc-like accumulation of enzyme activity, that was situated a few micron proximal to the mid-level, added to the type-A pattern. The type-C node showed a barely segregated axoplasm in which horseradish peroxidase-positive bodies were distributed randomly. We suggest, on the basis of the mutual order of the nodal types in a sequence of consecutive nodes and their appearance relative to the time after the administration of the HRP, that the different axoplasmic patterns reflect the operation of an ordered process that delays part of the retrogradely transported HRP for 2-3 days. The large number of lysosome-like HRP positive bodies that appeared at the nodes during this process indicates that the nodal axoplasm not only delays but also might take part in the degradation of the foreign protein.
Calcium-dependent action potentials were recorded from cultured (dissociated) spinal cord neurons in the presence of extracellular tetrodotoxin and tetraethylammonium in the mouse. The plateau portion of these action potentials underwent pronounced frequency-dependent decay with repetitive depolarizing current injections. Interstimulus intervals as long as 5 min were often required to ensure reproducible spike durations. This decay was not due to recurrent inhibition or intracellular calcium accumulation. It may be due to accumulation of either voltage-dependent inactivation of the calcium spike or of voltage-dependent outward currents. Any manipulation that prolonged the duration of the spike resulted in an apparent enhancement of the decay; however, this may simply be a consequence of the hyperbolic relationship between spike duration and the slope of the spike decay. It does not necessarily imply an effect on the mechanisms underlying frequency-dependent decay. Caution should, therefore, be exercised in interpreting the effects of drugs upon these calcium-dependent spikes.
alpha-2 adrenergic agonists inhibit nicotinic excitatory postsynaptic potentials and reduce calcium dependent action potentials in myenteric neurons. To test the hypothesis that adrenergic inhibitory effects on action potential configuration and on inhibition of acetylcholine release from the nerve terminal are analogous processes, the pharmacological characteristics and underlying mechanisms of these two effects were compared in neurons of the myenteric plexus in the guinea pig. Both clonidine and noradrenaline reduced the nicotinic fast excitatory postsynaptic potential in a concentration dependent manner, although the maximum effect produced by noradrenaline was greater. The specific alpha-2 antagonist RX781094 blocked the action of noradrenaline, with an apparent Kd value of 3.8 +/- 1 nM. Clonidine was similarly antagonized by low concentrations of this compound. The potassium channel blocker barium prevented inhibition of the fast excitatory postsynaptic potential by clonidine but not by noradrenaline. Action potentials recorded from after-hyperpolarization neurons with cesium chloride filled electrodes were prolonged in duration due to the blockade by cesium of outward potassium movement. Under these conditions, noradrenaline reduced action potential duration and slowed the rate of rise of the calcium dependent component in the presence of tetrodotoxin. RX781094 antagonized the latter effect with an estimated apparent Kd of 5.8 +/- nM. The rate of rise of the calcium dependent action potential was not affected by clonidine (30 nM to 1 microM). In the absence of potassium channel blockers noradrenaline caused hyperpolarizations which were blocked by RX781094. It has been previously shown that clonidine hyperpolarizes myenteric neurons via an adrenergically mediated increase in potassium conductance. It was concluded that the characteristics of presynaptic inhibition of release by noradrenaline and clonidine parallel the respective actions of these agonists on action potential configuration. While all clonidine effects could be explained on the basis of an increase in potassium conductance, noradrenaline exerted an additional inhibitory action which persisted in the presence of potassium channel blockade by barium or cesium.




A major problem with the study of the control of movement and posture is to determine how specific brain areas contribute to the selection of those particular muscle patterns that underlie a coordinated movement. With this problem in mind, a selective review is presented of mapping studies of the primate motor cortex, whose results bear on the question of how the spatial organization of cortical efferent cells might contribute to the production of organized muscle synergies. More recent findings are also summarized, which appear to resolve previous controversies on the question of whether movements or muscles are the primary units of motor cortex organization. These same findings suggest also a form of spatial organization within the primate precentral gyrus that would allow spatially simple afferent inputs to evoke the muscle synergies that are necessary for a variety of simple movements of the arm and hand.
Neurophysiological techniques, far from being mere manual or instrumental procedures, are intimately bound up with the concepts and social processes of experimental physiology. This proposition is argued by examining the prepublication history of four important technical innovations in 20th-century neurophysiology, and their associated innovators: the vacuum-tube amplifier (Lucas, Williams, and Forbes, 1912-1922); the cathode-ray oscillograph (Gasser, Newcomer, and Erlanger, 1919-1923); single-fiber recording (Adrian, Zotterman, Forbes, Davis, and Gasser, 1912-1926); and the intracellular microelectrode (Graham, Gerard, Ling, Hodgkin, and Nastuk, 1940-1950). From these episodes I conclude that: each technique has its own set of conceptual presuppositions, limitations, and biases--in a word, techniques are idea-laden; techniques have an inertia of use that is overcome often only in unusual circumstances of crisis or opportunity; techniques, in their origin, evaluation, demonstration, and diffusion, are embedded in a network of social contacts among researchers; and 4) techniques evolve with favorite biological materials that, by fitting the apparatus and the questions asked, also impose limits on the concepts educed from that preparation.


A general purpose analog-to-digital conversion system and its interface for a low-cost personal computer (Commodore 64) are described. Special emphasis has been put on achieving a high sampling frequency rate (up to 20,000 samples/s) and a high discrimination (12 bits). It has likewise been attempted to increase the number of input channels (up to 8, by means of a multiplexer) and averaging capability since such features may be useful in a great number of neurobiological studies. Commercially available hardware elements have been employed and software has been developed in BASIC and 6510 Machine Code.
We have investigated the role of the parafascicular-intralaminar thalamus in the regulation of dopaminergic function in the caudate-putamen by making unilateral injections of the excitotoxin, ibotenic acid, into the thalamus of the halothane-anaesthetized rat. Dopamine utilization was measured at 4 h, 18 h, and 7 days after operation in microdissected tissue from caudate-putamen, substantia nigra, and nucleus accumbens. High performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection was used to simultaneously determine dopamine, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and homovanillic acid. Dopamine utilization was recorded as a ratio of metabolite to its parent amine. At 4 h following injection large bilateral increases in dopamine utilization were recorded in both medial and lateral sectors of caudate-putamen. The percentage increases found for homovanillic acid-based ratios were larger than those found for 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid-based ratios. These results probably reflect increased dopamine release resulting from the acute effects of ibotenic acid. These changes were independent of dopamine utilization ratios recorded in the substantia nigra, which showed no change either ipsilateral or contralateral to the injection. In contrast to these findings, at 7 days following injection, dopamine utilization ratios were reduced both ipsilateral and contralateral to the injection, although only the ipsilateral reductions were significant. Again, no change was found for this survival time in the substantia nigra. At 18 h survival an intermediate pattern between the 4 h and 7 day result was found. In the nucleus accumbens, ibotenic acid injection produced similar results to those found in caudate-putamen, i.e. a bilateral increase in dopamine utilization at early time intervals and a unilateral ipsilateral decrease at long intervals following injection. These results show that dopamine release in the caudate-putamen is sensitive to experimentally induced changes in neural activity and lesions of its thalamic input. Since the effect of presumed stimulation is markedly greater than lesion, it would appear that, under the conditions employed in these experiments, the thalamus is relatively silent; a suggestion consistent with other evidence. Furthermore, since the changes found occurred in the absence of changes in utilization ratios in the substantia nigra, the mechanisms whereby thalamus regulates dopamine release may be exerted via a local circuit and/or a presynaptic mechanism in the region of dopamine terminals. The anatomical routes responsible for these effects are discussed.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
A neurochemical response of four dopamine-rich brain regions to unilateral electrical stimulation of the parafascicular thalamic nucleus was examined in the halothane-anaesthetized rat. Tissue concentrations of dopamine and its two major metabolites, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and 4-hydroxy-3-methoxyphenylacetic acid, were assayed by a high performance liquid chromatographic technique in samples of caudate-putamen complex, nucleus accumbens, prefrontal cortex and substantia nigra. The ratios of metabolite to parent amine concentrations were taken as indices of dopamine utilization. Halothane anaesthesia alone evoked significant bilateral increases of dopamine utilization in every brain region studied. Electrical stimulation of one parafascicular nucleus produced further bilateral elevations of dopamine utilization in the caudate-putamen complex without altering these parameters in the substantia nigra. In the prefrontal cortex, however, thalamic stimulation resulted in significant bilateral decreases of dopamine utilization. Electrical stimulation of cortical or other thalamic areas did not evoke this regional pattern of dopamine utilization. It is argued that these indices of dopamine utilization together serve as reliable indicators of synaptic dopamine release and it is concluded that the parafascicular thalamus is capable of facilitating dopaminergic neurotransmission in the caudate-putamen by a mechanism that is probably independent of changes in dopamine cell firing rate. An anatomical analysis suggests that a thalamo-cortical-striatal route is most likely to mediate this function.
The afferents to the periaqueductal gray in the rabbit have been described following hydraulic pressure injection of horseradish peroxidase at various sites throughout this structure. Every third section was reacted with tetramethylbenzidine, for the localization of afferent neurons. At the site of the deposit alternate sections were reacted with tetramethylbenzidine, Hanker-Yates reagent, or diaminobenzidine, for comparative assessment of the injection site. A large number of retrogradely labelled cells, assessed by bright- and dark-field microscopy, were observed in a wide range of areas throughout the brain. Major labelled areas within the telencephalon were cortical areas 5, 20, 21, 32 and 40. Within the diencephalon, the hypothalamus contained quantitatively by far the largest number of labelled cells. Of these nuclei, the dorsal pre-mammillary nucleus contained the largest number of labelled cells. Considerable labelling was also found within medial and lateral preoptic nuclei, anterior hypothalamic area, and ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus. Another diencephalic region containing a significant number of retrogradely labelled neurons was the zona incerta. At midbrain, pontine and medullary levels, additional labelled regions were: the substantia nigra, cuneiform nucleus, parabigeminal nucleus, raphe magnus, and reticular areas. Heavy labelling was seen within the periaqueductal gray itself, rostral and caudal to deposits placed within each subdivision. In addition, a large number of other areas labelled throughout the brain (Tables 2A-D). Not only were some differences noted in the pattern of labelled cells with deposits placed rostrally or caudally within periaqueductal gray, but certain topographical differences with respect to the degree of labelling within nuclei were also seen with injection sites ventral, lateral or dorsal to the aqueduct. In addition, a further difference was noted, in that over one third of the areas labelled with deposits in just one or other of the &quot;divisions&quot; within periaqueductal gray. The results therefore suggest that the periaqueductal gray might be divisible to some extent on the basis of connectivity with intrinsic subdivisions of the complex. It is hoped that, with time, it might prove possible to resolve any such differential input in functional terms. The wide variety of afferent input to the periaqueductal gray, and its strategic location, would seem to place it in a unique position for integrating and modifying a diversity of motor, autonomic, hormonal, sensory and limbic influences.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The distribution of monoamine oxidase-containing neuronal somata was studied in the rat brain by using an improved enzyme histochemical technique of the coupled peroxidatic oxidation method applied to fixed free-floating sections. The majority of monoamine oxidase-containing neuronal somata appeared to correspond with well-known cell groups of monoamine-containing neurons with a few exceptions. The enzyme appeared to coexist also in histamine-containing neurons in the posterior hypothalamus. Furthermore, monoamine oxidase activity was localized in apparently non-monoaminergic cells in the mesencephalon, hypothalamus, thalamus and telencephalon.
Ascending projections from the several nuclei of the medullary reticular formation were examined using the autoradiographic method. The majority of fibers labeled after injections of [3H]leucine into nucleus gigantocellularis ascended within Forel's tractus fasciculorum tegmenti which is located ventrolateral to the medial longitudinal fasciculus. Nucleus gigantocellularis injections produced heavy labeling in the pontomesencephalic reticular formation, the intermediate layers of the superior colliculus, the pontine and midbrain central gray, the anterior pretectal nucleus, the ventral midbrain tegmentum including the retrorubral area, the centromedian-parafascicular complex, the fields of Forel/zona incerta, the rostral intralaminar nuclei and the lateral hypothalamic area. Nucleus gigantocellularis projections to the rostral forebrain were sparse. Labeled fibers from nucleus reticularis ventralis, like those from nucleus gigantocellularis, ascended largely in the tracts of Forel and distributed to the pontomedullary reticular core, the facial and trigeminal motor nuclei, the pontine nuclei and the dorsolateral pontine tegmentum including the locus coeruleus and the parabrachial complex. Although projections from nucleus reticularis ventralis diminished significantly rostral to the pons, labeling was still demonstrable in several mesodiencephalic nuclei including the cuneiform-pedunculopontine area, the mesencephalic gray, the superior colliculus, the anterior pretectal nucleus, the zona incerta and the paraventricular and intralaminar thalamic nuclei. The main bundle of fibers labeled by nucleus gigantocellularis-pars alpha injections ascended ventromedially through the brainstem, just dorsal to the pyramidal tracts, and joined Forel's tegmental tract in the midbrain. With the brainstem, labeled fibers distributed to the pontomedullary reticular formation, the locus coeruleus, the raphe pontis, the pontine nuclei, and the dorsolateral tegmental nucleus and adjacent regions of the pontine gray. At mesodiencephalic levels, labeling was present in the rostral raphe nuclei (dorsal, median and linearis), the mesencephalic gray, the deep and intermediate layers of the superior colliculus, the medial and anterior pretectal nuclei, the ventral tegmental area, zona incerta as well as the mediodorsal and reticular nuclei of the thalamus. Injections of the parvocellular reticular nucleus labeled axons which coursed through the lateral medullary tegmentum to heavily innervate lateral regions of the medullary and caudal pontine reticular formation, cranial motor nuclei (hypoglossal, facial and trigeminal) and the parabrachial complex.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
In tissue from area CA1 of the rat hippocampus prepared for electron microscopic study by thin-sectioning, asymmetric synaptic junctions were found on dendritic spines, spiny dendritic shafts, and non-spiny dendritic shafts. In freeze-fractured preparations, aggregates of large particles were found on the extracellular half of the postsynaptic membrane at each of these synaptic junctions. Particle aggregate areas were measured and particle packing densities were computed at dendritic spine synapses and dendritic shaft synapses in area CA1, and compared to similar measures of particle aggregates on dendritic spines of cerebellar Purkinje cells. All of these CA1 and cerebellar synapses are excitatory and are thought to use glutamate as a neurotransmitter. There was a tendency for the dispersion of particles within individual aggregates to be less uniform in larger aggregates in both area CA1 and cerebellar cortex. Distinct particle-free zones could be distinguished in the center of particle aggregates on large &quot;mushroom-shaped&quot; spines in area CA1. There was no statistically significant difference between the particle densities at CA1 dendritic spines (2848 +/- 863 particles/micron2) and CA1 dendritic shafts (2707 +/- 718 particles/micron2). However, the average density of particles at cerebellar dendritic spine synapses (3614 +/- 1081 particles/micron2) was significantly greater than at dendritic spine or shaft synapses found in area CA1. Symmetric synaptic junctions were observed on the CA1 pyramidal cell somas and dendritic shafts in thin-sectioned preparations. These synapses typically exert an inhibitory action mediated by gamma-aminobutyric acid. In freeze-fracture preparations, large varicosities were found apposed to the pyramidal somal and dendritic membranes, but there were no specializations of particle distribution on either the extracellular or the cytoplasmic half of the fractured postsynaptic membranes. This finding parallels observations from freeze-fracture preparations of other GABAergic synapses in the central nervous system.
The paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus receives a dense noradrenergic innervation. Electrochemically treated carbon fibre electrodes were implanted in the paraventricular nucleus of anaesthetized rats and their locations were histologically controlled after each experiment. Differential normal pulse voltammograms showed an oxidation peak at +50 mV. This peak was mainly due to 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid synthesized by noradrenergic terminals since: it appeared at the same oxidation potential as 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid in vitro; it was rapidly suppressed after inhibition of tyrosine hydroxylase by alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine or monoamine oxidase by pargyline; blockade of dopamine-beta-hydroxylase by FLA 63 induced a marked increase in this signal, whereas this drug was without effect in dopaminergic terminals fields (striatum, zona incerta); stimulation of alpha 2 noradrenergic receptors by clonidine (50 micrograms/kg) decreased the peak height and this effect was reversed by piperoxane (30 mg/kg). This oxidation peak corresponded to a 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid concentration of 2 microM. On the other hand, when recorded from rats which were treated with pargyline 3 h before recording, a small peak appeared at +100 mV. This signal was attributed to the oxidation of extracellular noradrenaline on the basis of the following arguments: it appeared at the same potential as noradrenaline in vitro; desipramine (25 mg/kg) induced a 4-fold increase in this peak height; piperoxan (2 mg/kg) enhanced this signal and reversed the decrease induced by clonidine (50 micrograms/kg); electrical stimulations (bipolar electrode, square pulses, 0.3 ms, 200 microA, 15 Hz for 40 s) in the rostral part of the A1 group were followed by an immediate, short-lasting 4-fold increase in the signal.
Cholera toxin conjugated horseradish peroxidase was injected into the posterior pituitary and its afferents traced in 21 albino rats. The neuronal processes as well as the perikarya were elaborately displayed. The principal and retrochiasmatic supraoptic nuclei and the magnocellular paraventricular subnuclei were densely labelled. The accessory cell groups or nuclei labelled included: the medial preoptic and anterior hypothalamic areas, the anterior and posterior fornical nuclei, the lateral hypothalamic area, the nucleus circularis and nucleus of the forebrain bundle and hitherto unknown or not fully appreciated retrochiasmatic area, the dorsal accessory groups in an area between the stria medullaris and fornix, on the one hand, and the stria terminalis and internal capsule, on the other, and a well developed subependymalperiventricular zone. The medial preoptic nucleus, subfornical organ and organ vasculosum laminae terminalis were also weakly stained. Dendrites of the magnocellular paraventricular nucleus have been said by some to be largely confined to the subnuclei in which they lie. Immunohistochemical studies have proved that they extended beyond their nuclear confinement. The present study has found much wider extension of their dendritic fields. In fact, dendrites of the magnocellular neurosecretory cells in general were long and had a certain degree of directional bias. Several sites projecting to the posterior pituitary were closely related to the cerebrospinal fluid. Namely, the subependymal neuronal plexuses along the third ventricle and beneath the interventricular foramen, and the subpial dendritic plexuses of the supraoptic and retrochiasmatic supraoptic nuclei. Neurons were seen to squeeze in-between the ependymal cells, bringing themselves very close to the cerebrospinal fluid. No direct cerebrospinal fluid-contacting elements, either cell bodies or processes, however, could be ascertained. It is proposed that these plexuses may monitor changes in the cerebrospinal fluid. Besides the principal neurohypophysial tract the posterior pituitary was found in the present study to receive its afferents via two accessory fasciculi, one coursing in the medial forebrain bundle and the other running along the lateral wall of the infundibular recess subependymally.
The present experiments were conducted to identify thermoresponsive neurons in the ventral septal area and to characterize such units with respect to their connectivity to potential sources of arginine vasopressin in this area (the paraventricular nucleus and the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis) and to other brain regions (fornix and amygdala). Single unit in vivo microelectrode techniques were used to classify warm responsive, cold responsive, dynamic, biphasic and phasically active thermoresponsive neurons in the ventral septal area which altered their spontaneous activity in response to thermal stimulation of the scrotal skin. The fornix provided a large number of primarily inhibitory afferents to ventral septal thermoresponsive neurons while the amygdala projection consisted of approximately equal excitatory and inhibitory inputs. Electrical stimulation of the paraventricular nucleus resulted in orthodromic inhibition in 9 of 12 thermoresponsive units while projections from the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis appeared to preferentially inhibit warm responsive neurons in this area. These findings implicate the ventral septal area in thermoregulatory pathways by identifying neurons in this area responsive to peripheral thermal stimulation. Further, evidence in support of arginine vasopressin acting in this area to influence thermoregulation is provided by the identification of the paraventricular nucleus and bed nucleus of the stria terminalis as possible sources of afferents to the ventral septal area, and the characterization of the influence of this afferent input on thermoresponsive neurons in this region.
The classes of neurons accumulating exogenously injected, tritiated gamma-aminobutyric acid [( 3H]GABA) were studied in the supragranular layers in the primary auditory field of the adult cat. The size, laminar locus, and somatodendritic profiles of labeled neurons were studied light microscopically in frozen- or Vibratome-sectioned, 30 micron thick material, and in semithin, 1-2 micron thick, plastic-embedded high-resolution autoradiographic preparations. The chief goals of the study were to determine which types of cells could be identified as accumulating [3H]GABA in layers I, II and III, and to establish possible relationships between these cells and neurons described in Golgi studies of these layers, and the neurons found, in parallel investigations of the connections of the primary auditory field, to participate as ipsilateral corticocortical and commissural cells of origin. The principal findings are: that neurons in every layer in the primary auditory field take up tritiated gamma-aminobutyric acid; that their Nissl-counterstained somata have a smaller average area, and a smaller range of areas, than do the unlabeled cells; that more than one type of labeled neuron-as defined by somatic size and shape, height:width ratios, and nuclear membrane morphology-could be identified in each layer; that none of the labeled neurons had a soma with a pyramidal configuration; that the labeled cells are comparable in size, shape, and laminar distribution to some populations of non-pyramidal ipsilateral corticocortical cells of origin in layers II and III, and perhaps to certain classes of commissurally projecting, layer III non-pyramidal neurons; and finally, that only a rather small proportion-perhaps 10% or less, except in layer I-of the supragranular cells appear to accumulate labeled material. With regard to the identity of particular classes of neurons accumulating silver grains above background in the individual layers, in layer I, 2 of the 4 types of neurons characterized in Golgi preparations take up gamma-aminobutyric acid and the remaining 2 types may also, and the relative number of labeled cells appears to be higher than in the other layers; in layer II, 2 of the 9 varieties are labeled, and 4 other types may also be; and in layer III, 2 of the 11 types take up gamma-aminobutyric acid, and 5 other varieties may as well. Three types of non-pyramidal layer II cells that project ipsilaterally from AI to the second auditory cortical field, AII, possibly accumulate gamma-aminobutyric acid; 3 types of commissural non-pyramidal cells of origin linking AI to AI appear to be labeled by gamma-aminobutyric acid.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Neural grafts from day 17-19 fetal rats or mice survived well when transplanted into syngeneic, or immunodeficient hosts, thus demonstrating that there are no non-immunological barriers to cross-species transplantation of neuronal tissue in rats and mice. However, intraventricular grafts from rat to mouse, or vice versa, in immunocompetent animals were rejected in less than 30 days. By this time all graft tissue had been destroyed and scavenged, presumably by the macrophages seen infiltrating the grafts within 10 days of grafting. Rat allografts from major histocompatibility complex disparate donors disparate donors survived well as did grafts between rats differing only at minor histocompatibility loci. However, allografts from donors that differed from recipients at both major and minor histocompatibility complex loci had a variable survival time. When neural tissue was grafted into immunologically primed recipients, it was rejected as was similar tissue grafted beneath the kidney capsule of an allogeneic host. Concomitant grafting of allogeneic tissue under the kidney capsule and into the third ventricle was followed by rejection in both sites. A striking observation in these studies was the induction of Class I major histocompatibility complex antigens on grafted neuronal tissue. High levels of antigen expression were correlated with a vigorous host response and poor graft survival but lower levels were not indicative of impending graft destruction. Whilst the brain can be regarded as an immunologically privileged site, the privilege is not absolute and caution needs to be exercised in the interpretation of results from allogeneic or xenogeneic grafts.
We have previously demonstrated that neurons of the rat cerebral cortex which stain positively for acetylcholinesterase are not likely to be cholinergic since they do not colocalize with choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity [Levey, Rye, Wainer, Mufson and Mesulam (1984) Neuroscience 9, 9-22]. These noncholinergic acetylcholinesterase-positive cells were similar in morphology to cortical neurons which localize gamma-aminobutyric acid or glutamate decarboxylase immunoreactivity. In order to investigate the possibility that the two substances may be colocalized to the same cortical neurons, gamma-aminobutyric acid immunohistochemistry and acetylcholinesterase histochemistry were combined in single sections of rat cerebral cortex. We found that 18% of gamma-aminobutyric acid-immunoreactive cortical neurons are also acetylcholinesterase-positive, and about 36% of acetylcholinesterase-positive cells are gamma-aminobutyric acid-immunoreactive. Neurons which colocalized both substances were multipolar and bipolar neurons in cortical laminae II-VI and were observed in every cortical area examined. The possibility that gamma-aminobutyric acid-immunoreactive/acetylcholinesterase-positive cortical neurons may be postsynaptic targets of cholinergic afferents to the cerebral cortex is discussed.
The precise stimulus specificity of striate cortical neurons is strongly influenced by processes involving gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA). In the visual cortex of the monkey most afferents from the lateral geniculate nucleus terminate in layer IVC. We identified a type of smooth dendritic neuron (clutch cell) that was immunoreactive for GABA, and whose Golgi-impregnated dendrites and axon were largely restricted to layer IVC beta. The slightly ovoid somata were 8-12 micron by 12-15 micron and the dendritic field was often elongated, extending 80-200 micron in one dimension. The axonal field was 100-150 micron in diameter and densely packed with large bulbous boutons. Although mainly located in IVC beta both the dendritic and axonal processes entered IVC alpha. Fine structural features of GABA-immunoreactive and-impregnated clutch cells and impregnated spiny stellate cells were compared. Clutch cells had more cytoplasm, more densely packed mitochondria and endoplasmic reticulum, and made type II as opposed to type I synapses. A random sample of 159 elements postsynaptic to three clutch cells showed that they mainly terminated on dendritic shafts (43.8-58.5%) and spines (20.8-46.3%), rather than somata (10-17%). The majority of the postsynaptic targets were characteristic of spiny stellate cells. This was directly demonstrated by studying synaptic contacts between an identified GABA positive clutch cell and the dendrites and soma of an identified spiny stellate cell. The termination of clutch cells mainly on dendrites and spines of spiny stellate cells suggests that they interact with other inputs to the same cells. Following an electrolytic lesion in the ipsilateral lateral geniculate nucleus we examined the distribution of degenerating terminals on three identified spiny stellate neurons in layer IVC beta. Out of eight synapses from the lateral geniculate nucleus one was on a dendritic shaft, the rest on spines. Only a small fraction of all synapses on the cells were from degenerating boutons. A clutch cell within the area of dense terminal degeneration was not contacted by terminals from the lateral geniculate nucleus. The results show that layer IVC in the monkey has a specialized GABAergic neuron that terminates on spiny stellate cells monosynaptically innervated from the lateral geniculate nucleus. Possible functions of clutch cells may include inhibitory gating of geniculate input to cortex; maintenance of the antagonistic subregions in the receptive fields; and the creation from single opponent of double colour opponent receptive fields.
The terminal nerve is composed of a morphologically heterogeneous population of unipolar, bipolar and multipolar neurons located in the nasal and intracranial cavities of vertebrates. The question has arisen as to whether these neurons are neurochemically heterogeneous and therefore possibly functionally different as well. Among the substances localized in the terminal nerve are acetylcholinesterase and luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone-like immunoreactive material. We have developed a double-label procedure, combining immunocytochemistry and enzyme histochemistry to determine whether these two substances are localized within different populations of terminal nerve neurons. Compatibility of the two procedures was accomplished by modifications of the fixative and primary antibody solutions. In the immunocytochemical step, the avidin-biotin-peroxidase complex coupled to a new chromogen, Chromo-red, produced a bright red reaction product in neurons containing luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone-like material. This reaction product was easily differentiated from the black silver-intensified acetylcholinesterase label. In both neonatal and adult preparations, a large population of terminal neurons contained the acetylcholinesterase label only, whereas a smaller population contained both acetylcholinesterase and luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone-like material. The acetylcholinesterase-containing population of neurons was concentrated peripherally and included multipolar neurons. In contrast neurons with the two substances co-localized were unipolar or bipolar and were concentrated centrally. The simultaneous visualization of acetylcholinesterase and luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone-like material in the same tissue section enable the differentiation of two separate neurochemically defined populations of terminal neurons. The distribution of these two neuronal types was the same in neonatal and adult animals. These data provide support for a functional diversity of terminal neurons.
The projections of the peripheral and intracerebral portions of the hamster terminal nerve were examined with lesion and immunocytochemical techniques. After transection, proximal processes of the terminal nerve accumulate luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone-immunoreactive material, while the distal processes disintegrate and are no longer stained. It thus becomes possible to determine the direction of conduction of terminal nerve axons. The results of transection at the level of the cribriform plate, along the olfactory bulb, and in the ventral forebrain were all consistent in indicating a centripetal direction of conduction. Immunoreactive material collected distal to the lesion at each of these levels. All peripheral lesions eliminated processes coursing into and through the terminal ganglion at the base of the ventral forebrain. These lesions left intact, however, the terminal ganglion projections to the accessory olfactory bulb and ventral forebrain. These results indicate a centripetal projection from terminal neurons in the nasal cavity, along the olfactory bulbs and within the terminal ganglion to successively more caudal levels. This suggests that neural messages are conveyed from nasal cavity to the brain through this route. Because immunoreactive fibers were found within the sensory epithelium of the vomeronasal organ a sensory and/or sensory modulatory action is suggested.
The occurrence of neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity in the adrenal gland was investigated by means of radioimmunoassay, chromatography and immunohistochemistry. The adrenal levels of neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity varied considerably between species with lowest amounts in the rat and highest in the cow where immunoreactivity was observed in chromaffin cells and nerve fibres in the capsule and cortex. The distribution of neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity in the cow medulla overlapped that of enkephalin-like immunoreactivity. Chromatographic characterisation of rat and cow adrenal extracts showed that the majority of the neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity was similar in molecular weight and solubility properties to porcine neuropeptide Y. Rat adrenal contained additional material some of which may represent oxidised neuropeptide Y. The administration of insulin and reserpine to rats in vivo showed that the turnover of adrenal neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity is regulated by the splanchnic nerve. Splanchnic activation following insulin-induced hypoglycaemia elicited a 60% depletion of neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity 2 h post insulin injection. A smaller (maximum 40%) depletion of neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity was measured 24 h after reserpine injections which may be explained by splanchnic activation. Five days after reserpine injections the levels of adrenal neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity were increased to 200% of control levels and remained slightly elevated at 25 days. Adrenal enkephalin-like immunoreactivity showed similar but not identical changes following reserpine. The reserpine-induced elevation in neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity at the 5-day time point was abolished in rats with a chronic bilateral splanchnectomy. This evidence indicates that neuropeptide Y may be considered as a new adrenal medullary hormone.
Peripheral sources of cerebral vascular innervation have been investigated with retrograde and anterograde neuronal tracing of wheat germ agglutinin conjugated with horseradish peroxidase (WGA-HRP) in the rat. For retrograde identification of sources of innervation, WGA-HRP was applied to the exposed basilar artery through a fine slit in the overlying meninges, and sections of brain and peripheral ganglia were reacted with tetramethylbenzidine for detection of the tracer. A high density of tetramethylbenzidine reaction product was observed around the basilar artery and in the surrounding pial tissue, but the application sites were not completely selective since some tracer always had spread into the ventral brain stem. Retrogradely labelled cell bodies were identified in the superior cervical, stellate, first and second spinal, and trigeminal ganglia, i.e. these ganglia may represent origins of basilar artery innervation. In a second series of experiments, microinjections of WGA-HRP were placed into the indicated ganglia to obtain anterograde labelling of nerve fibres on whole-mounts of the cerebral vessels. Injections into trigeminal ganglia labelled nerve fibres on the ipsilateral half of the circle of Willis, as well as the contralateral anterior cerebral artery and the rostral part of the basilar artery. The first and second spinal ganglia projected to the vertebrobasilar arteries, while the ipsilateral part of the internal carotid (outside the circle of Willis) received fibres from the second spinal ganglion. Nerve fibres originating in trigeminal and spinal ganglia were organised in bundles, and between these a sparse plexus of thin single fibres appeared. Injection of WGA-HRP into superior cervical ganglion labelled a plexus of nerve fibres on the ipsilateral circle of Willis and the (rostral) basilar artery. These experiments demonstrated the origin and distribution of sympathetic and sensory innervation to major cerebral arteries in the rat.
In vitro autoradiography of cryostat sections revealed major differences between the distribution of opioid binding sites in the hippocampus of the guinea pig and the rat. Only very low binding was found in the pyramidal cell layer, the dentate granular cell layer and the commissural-associational zone of the dentate molecular layer of the guinea pig, whereas these areas were moderately to densely labeled in the rat. In the guinea pig an enrichment of sites was observed in the terminal field of the mossy fiber system in the hilus which was absent in the rat. Binding sites in the guinea pig were found to be mainly of the kappa and mu type. The distribution of [Leu]enkephalin immunoreactivity does not correlate well with the distribution of delta opioid binding sites in the hippocampus. Quantification of opioid binding sites in the hippocampus demonstrates that no one type of site can be assigned to a specific hippocampal subregion nor does the intensity or the pattern of distribution of binding types agree well with the distribution of endogenous opioid peptides.
[3H]Bremazocine, in the presence of saturating concentrations of mu and delta receptor blocking agents, was used to label putative kappa opiate binding sites in rat brain. The binding of [3H]bremazocine under these conditions was completely displaced with high affinity by U-50488H and dynorphin1-17, and the potency of a series of opiate ligands was consistent with an action at kappa receptors. Therefore, [3H]bremazocine, in the presence of mu and delta blockers, was used to localize U-50488H-displaceable kappa binding sites by autoradiography. A distribution different from that of mu and delta receptors was seen, with levels highest in the claustrum, striatum, medial preoptic area, suprachiasmatic nucleus, medial amygdala and superior layer of the superior colliculus. The results show that the U-50488H-displaceable kappa sites have a distinct distribution which is discussed in terms of the possible functional roles of kappa receptors.
The effects of taurine and its structural analogues and two new anticonvulsant derivatives, taltrimide and MY-103, on the function of brain dopaminergic systems were studied by assessing their interference with the binding of [3H]spiperone to synaptic membranes isolated from rat striata. Two populations of binding sites were detected. The binding was effectively displaced by (+)butaclamol and dopamine, serotonin being less potent by one order of magnitude. Taurine, taltrimide and MY-103 inhibited spiperone binding moderately. The binding constants of both high- and low-affinity components and the maximal binding capacity of the low-affinity component decreased in the presence of taurine. The results show that taurine and its novel anticonvulsant derivates could modulate the function of striatal dopaminergic systems.
Dopamine receptor binding in the caudate-putamen was studied following bilateral lesions of the thalamostriatal pathway. Receptor binding was assayed using [3H]spiperone and defined with both (+)-butaclamol and S(-)-sulpiride. Radiofrequency lesions resulted in an increase in the Bmax of [3H]spiperone binding defined with both (+)-butaclamol and S(-)-sulpiride between 7 and 14 days following surgery. At longer survival times a fluctuating response was seen in which a decrease in receptor binding was observed at 28 days following lesion and a further rise again at 70 days. At no time point was significant change in Kd recorded. Further experiments were carried out to control for the possible effects of damage to fibres of passage and for inadvertent damage to habenula, as well as to define the receptor subtype involved. Ibotenic acid lesions resulted in similar effects to those reported with the radiofrequency method. Thus, 7 days following lesion, Bmax for (+)-butaclamol-defined [3H]spiperone binding increased by approximately 14-20% over that recorded in sham-lesioned animals. Using S(-)-sulpiride to define binding, Bmax was found to increase 13-17% in the same membrane preparations. Similar results were obtained in experiments at 14 days following ibotenic acid induced lesions. Again, no change in Kd was recorded. When radiofrequency lesions were made, which were largely restricted to habenula and associated fibres of passage, only small [(+)-butaclamol defined] or insignificant [S(-)-sulpiride defined] changes in Bmax were recorded. Combined radiofrequency lesions of habenula and ibotenic acid lesions of the thalamus resulted in a larger increase in Bmax for (+)-butaclamol defined binding than with S(-)-sulpiride defined binding. Our interpretation of these findings, in the light of the histology of the lesions, is that the predominant effect of removing thalamic input to the caudate-putamen is an increase in the number of D2 receptors, but without any change of affinity. A small component of the change in Bmax defined with (+)-butaclamol found with radiofrequency lesions may be due to a response at non-dopamine sites (possibly a 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor subtype) following damage to other caudate-putamen afferents which pass near the habenula or fasciculus retroflexus. Following unilateral ibotenic acid lesions of the thalamus, the number of high affinity uptake sites for dopamine was increased at long survival times.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Anxiolytic drugs share many of the common behavioural effects of septal and hippocampal lesions in animals. Gray attributes this to changes which the anxiolytics produce in septal generation of hippocampal rhythmical slow activity. However, lesions of the dorsal ascending noradrenergic bundle reproduce this electrophysiological effect of the anxiolytics while only reproducing part of the behavioural profile of the anxiolytics. The present paper reports what appears to be a second common effect of anxiolytic drugs on the generation of hippocampal slow waves which could underlie their behavioural effects. Freely moving rats, previously implanted with electrodes, received high frequency electrical stimulation of the midbrain reticular formation to elicit hippocampal rhythmic slow activity. The frequency of the slow waves produced increased linearly with increasing stimulation intensity as has been reported previously. A barbiturate (amylobarbitone, 15 mg/kg, i.p.) and three benzodiazepines (chlordiazepoxide, 5 mg/kg; diazepam, 5 mg/kg; alprazolam, 1 mg/kg) all decreased the slope of the voltage-frequency function and decreased overall frequency of slow waves produced. Two antipsychotic drugs (haloperidol, 0.2 mg/kg; chlorpromazine, 2 mg/kg) produced similar behavioural sedation to the anxiolytics but did not decrease either the slope of the voltage-frequency function nor the overall frequency of slow waves. The results show that these barbiturates and benzodiazepines produce a common reduction in the frequency of hippocampal rhythmical slow activity. Given the importance attached to slow waves in current theories of hippocampal function, it is possible that this electrophysiological effect could have some relation to the behavioural effects of these anxiolytic drugs. If the effect can be shown to generalize to other classes of anxiolytic drug it could reflect changes in the substrate for the common effects of anxiolytic drugs on behaviour.
Ionic mechanisms underlying the firing properties of spinal motoneurons of neonatal rats (postnatal days 3-10) have been investigated using a hemisected, in vitro spinal cord preparation. These results demonstrate the presence of a high-threshold voltage-dependent calcium response and partial sodium-dependent spikes. The calcium current is evident during the falling phase of the action potential and is the major component of the after-depolarizing potential. The subsequent increase in intracellular calcium concentration activates a calcium-dependent potassium conductance (gK-Ca), the major component of the after-hyperpolarizing potential. The gCa, by activating gK-Ca, is the primary determinant of firing rate in neonatal motoneurons. For, when gCa was blocked by Cd2+, the interspike interval decreased, the maximum firing rate and the slope of the firing frequency-injected current relation increased. The calcium current is particularly robust during the first few postnatal days; during this period, tetrodotoxin resistant action potentials can be elicited by direct stimulation under control conditions. In animals older than 5 days such calcium spikes could be elicited only after decreasing gK with intracellular Cs+ or extracellular tetraethylammonium. This was the case even when 1 mM of the bath CaCl2 was replaced with BaCl2. The rising phases of calcium spikes recorded from neurons in both age groups demonstrate several components suggesting the calcium spikes comprise several discrete events, which probably originate across the dendritic membrane. When gK was decreased by bath application of tetraethylammonium+ and Cs+, neonatal motoneurons generated prolonged Ca-dependent spikes lasting for up to 6 s. Repolarization of Ca spikes occurred in two stages, the first was rapid (-2.11 +/- 0.8 V/s, n = 6) but incomplete. The second, was slower (-0.01 +/- 0.003 V/s, n = 5) and returned the membrane potential to the resting level after about 1-2 s. It is suggested that accumulation of extracellular potassium may contribute to the slow phase of repolarization. Motoneurons from the younger age group (3-5 days old) demonstrate all-or-none partial spikes rising from the after-depolarization of directly elicited sodium-dependent action potentials. Similar partial spikes were elicited from neurons from older animals during intracellular Cs+ loading. The partial spikes had faster rates of rise than the tetrodotoxin-resistant spikes and were not seen after tetrodotoxin treatment, suggesting that they are sodium-dependent.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
How should clinicians select the specific drug, operation, splint, exercise, or conversations that will best achieve the therapeutic goal for a given patient? This essay will examine three strategies for doing so: induction from our own, individual prior experiences; abdication to the authority of our teachers and those who write review articles; and deduction from the reports of randomized clinical trials. By means of examples from the recent past, the fallibility of the first two approaches will be illustrated. Then, strategies for critically appraising the published reports of randomized trials will be described. Finally, the reasons why the results of even the proper trials may not be accepted by frontline clinicians will be introduced.

It is estimated that between 3% and 7% of children and adolescents in this country--up to 4 million--are learning disabled. Of this group, about 20% also have attention deficit disorder. Many professionals in multiple disciplines have proposed treatment approaches. When research has been done to support the approach, the reports and data may be published in journals not normally read by the practicing physician. When research data are not available, the information may be in a popular book, newspapers, or lay magazines or on television. Thus, parents may know of ideas and suggestions before the professional in clinical practice. These acceptable and controversial approaches to treatment are reviewed. It is understandable that a parent would seek out improved ways of helping his or her child. I reviewed the significant literature in an effort to assist the practicing physician in providing appropriate parental guidance and clinical interventions.
Psychiatry, which has experienced the influence of many thrusts in its history, is currently experiencing the impact of neuroscience. Clinicians view the impact with excitement and with apprehension. The author reviews examples of the excitement of scientific developments related to psychiatry. He traces the coexisting evolution of a more differentiated clinical psychiatry and deals with questions of reconciling neuroscience and behavioral approaches. The author's contention is that neuroscience will strengthen psychiatry and that biological and psychological integration will thus be enhanced.

The application of the new ideas advanced by modern neuroscience research, mainly those about the neuronal plasticity and the extrinsic influences able to modify the behaviour of the neuronal populations, to the ontogenetic evolution of the nervous system, have conducted to the elaboration of the concept of the humoral mediation of the brain development. Data sustaining this concept come from at least four areas of investigations, referring to the influences which the endocrine glands (thyroid, gonads, adrenals, hypophysis and pineal), neurotransmitters and the &quot;growth factors&quot; exert on the in vivo and in vitro development of the nervous system. These data are synthetically presented in the present paper, a special attention being paid to the pineal gland and its hormones, due to the personal research of the author in this field. All these researches support some fascinating hypotheses regarding the future of this extremely controversed field of the neuroscience, hypotheses that are presented in the final chapter of the paper.

A data set consisting of the locations of &quot;light-on&quot; and &quot;light-off&quot; displaced amacrine cells in the retina of a rabbit is analysed using recently developed statistical methodology. The results are used to discriminate between two biological hypotheses concerning the genesis of the data. Some general comments are made on the statistical analysis of spatial point patterns.
Several methods for estimating the numerical density (NV) of particles are described. The usefulness and the limitations of different methods with respect to the estimation of synaptic densities are discussed. These methods are: the discrete unfolding technique, the serial section technique and the disector technique. From the results it is concluded that it is not advisable to use an unfolding technique to estimate the number and size of synapses since all sorts of assumptions regarding the shape, truncation and overprojection are hazardous. Consistently lower values for NV were obtained with the disector technique compared with the results of the serial section technique. This difference, obtained with two unbiased techniques, is discussed. The main conclusion with respect to this point is that both techniques can be used to estimate synaptic densities, provided a reliable estimate of the section thickness is obtained and an appropriate sampling procedure is used.
The usefulness of a number of new stereological principles for unbiased estimation of particle number and sizes and sampling of particles is illustrated together with a novel principle for unbiased estimation of anisotropic surfaces. The examples include descriptions of estimators of neurone and synapse number and sizes, synapse gradients, neurone point patterns in three-dimensional space, capillary surface area, and perikarya volumes. A major advantage of the methods is the possibility to carry out the estimation procedures in specified, well-characterized regions or layers of the brain. Some general statistical and stereological problems are briefly discussed.
Cytoarchitectonic studies are based on the analysis of structural inhomogeneities in nervous tissue. Boundaries of brain regions are established where local structural properties such as numerical cell density, size, shape or orientation change. The measurement of these properties from histological sections with automatic devices is biased due to the thickness of the sections. In this study, the grey level index (GLI) is measured with a TV-based image analyzer from routine histological sections. This parameter is a biased estimate of the volume density of Nissl-positive structures. The histological section is digitized into GLI values by a computer-controlled scanning procedure. The result is stored in an image matrix which is processed by digital filtering in order to visualize the laminar pattern. GLI statistics of brain regions are evaluated from the pictorial data by delineating these regions with a cursor on a hard copy fixed to digitizer. Information from a series of sections is stored in a standardized data file and combined by specific application programs.
Comparison of the different approximation equations and procedures to estimate the volume of a brain region with an irregular shape contained in parallel sections indicates that the 'basic volume estimator' using systematic section is very efficient and sufficiently accurate. Important in estimating the volume is the correction for shrinkage and the accuracy of the section thickness determination. Methods to estimate thickness of section are outlined, and the method of differential focusing is discussed. In the Appendix, the corrections are described for overestimation of the volume by overprojection of the cross-sectional area and underestimation by underprojection when the size of cross-sectional area changes non-negligibly within sections. Statistical techniques to compare bivariate linear relations of different groups are reviewed. Emphasis is laid on Model II regression techniques that are used when the two variables considered are both subject to biological variation and measurement error. A new Model II procedure is proposed to compare the coincidence of the slopes of bivariate distributions and to test whether or not an experimental bivariate sample deviates significantly from a control sample when only the control group shows a significant bivariate linear relationship.
The morphology of neurons is an important factor for the identification and the study of the changes that occur in the nervous system during development or as a result of disease or an experimental treatment. A number of methods to describe the topological aspects of neuronal morphology is discussed. Furthermore it is illustrated how different groups of neurons can be compared. Although both topological and metrical aspects are considered in the comparative sections emphasis is put on counting instead of measuring. Our intention is to present quick and easy methods that are applicable to camera lucida drawings.
Metric analysis methods used to study neuronal arborizations are reviewed and discussed. The analysis methods considered are those examining the spatial orientation and density of the whole dendritic field of a neuron, the metrics of dendritic segments and the bifurcation angles. General variables indicating the size of the soma and the dendritic field are indicated. In addition, the instrumentation used for providing 3-dimensional data for metric analyses and the shrinkage of Golgi-stained neurons are discussed.
Bivariate linear models, used to describe morphological and functional characteristics between two sets of observations, are examined both in concept and in application. This paper focuses on the underlying assumptions and statistics of the method most frequently used: ordinary linear regression, principal axis and standard major axis. It is shown how the choice of method should depend on: the purpose of the analysis and the a priori assumptions regarding the residual variance. It appears that none of the methods has a universal application. Differences among the models discussed are illustrated by a bivariate morphometric analysis of cerebrocortical regions in primates.
The history of morphometry begins in the middle of the last century. At the turn of the century impulses had decreased. The alterations arising during the preparation of the tissues were almost unknown. For example, the dogma of the loss of neurons during aging was conditioned by age-dependent histological shringage of the brain. Beginning in the thirties of this century new thoughts have given impulses to new morphometric investigation. In the neurosciences important impulses came from Bok. In 1961 Elias introduced the term &quot;stereology&quot; as a new interdisciplinary science in order to communicate the different developments. Since 1970 the computer and image analysis have brought a new dimension to morphometric research. This paper describes some neuromorphometrical developments. An increasing accuracy of results regarding density and amount of neurons can be estimated with facilitated counting procedures. A similar development can be observed for the estimation of neuronal sizes and their size distribution as well as for the volume-parts of the average perikaryon volume fraction (grey cell coefficient). The morphometry of dendritic tree and the ultrastructure of neuropil are briefly mentioned.
Management of patients with trauma to the central nervous system is a challenge for the neuroscience nurse. When trauma to the carotid artery is present, the management of closed head injury becomes even more complex. Although the incidence of carotid artery dissection is small, the risks of morbidity and mortality are high. This article discusses the mechanism of injury, associated symptoms, and theories of management for victims of carotid artery injury associated with blunt craniocervical trauma. New assessment considerations for nursing diagnosis and intervention are provided.
Productivity and quality patient care depend on a strong and collaborative nurse-physician relationship. A questionnaire was developed to assess physicians' opinions regarding services provided by the nursing staff at Barrow Neurological Institute. This article discusses the importance of a working nurse-physician relationship; variables that physicians perceive as important to the neuroscience nurse's role; factors that positively affect the nurse's role in a nurse-physician relationship; and strategies to improve nurse-physician relations.
The physiological basis of learning is memory. The established facts about memory, the memory systems, and learning are presented along with relevant theories currently proposed. Additionally, current physiological theory about cognition is examined. Specifically, the functions of the memory systems in cognition and the function of the frontal lobes in goal orientation and elaboration of thought are addressed. Implications for neuroscience nursing practice are drawn.
The effect of nerve growth factor treatment on the expression of neutral glycosphingolipids and gangliosides was examined in PC12 pheochromocytoma cells grown in spinner culture. These studies show that PC12 cells contain an unusual group of fucose containing neutral glycolipids and gangliosides. The fucose containing neutral glycolipids, which appear to be derivatives of globoside, are very minor components. However, nearly all of the gangliosides in PC12 cells contain fucose. Two minor neutral glycolipids were isolated from these cells, and were identified as fucosylgloboside and galactosylgloboside. Two major gangliosides were also isolated and identified as fucosyl GM2 and fucosyl GD2. Studies using [3H]fucose to examine the synthesis of fucosylglycolipids indicate that nerve growth factor enhances the incorporation of fucose into glycolipids and gangliosides by as much as 80%. These studies show that all of the gangliosides in PC12 cells appear to increase in concentration when the cells are treated with nerve growth factor in spinner culture. However, only the complex fucose containing neutral glycolipids increase in concentration during this same treatment, while the non-fucosylated precursors do not.
Stimulation of bovine chromaffin cell in culture changed (increased or decreased) the phosphorylation state of several proteins as examined by 32P incorporation. Enhanced phosphorylation of 22 protein bands as well as increased dephosphorylation of a 20.4 kilodaltons protein band was observed when extracts of cultured chromaffin cells stimulated by either acetylcholine or high K+ were subjected to mono-dimensional gel electrophoresis. For several protein bands, the degree of phosphorylation was larger in cells stimulated by acetylcholine than in those challenged by a depolarizing concentration of K+. The most affected phosphoproteins have apparent molecular weights of 14,800, 29,000, 33,000, 57,000 (tubulin subunit), 63,000 (tyrosine hydroxylase subunit) and 94,000. The presence of a low extracellular calcium concentration (0.5 mM Ca2+ plus 15 mM Mg2+) in the incubation medium inhibited (38-100%) the acetylcholine-evoked increases in protein phosphorylation observed previously for 18 protein bands. Trifluoperazine at the concentration required for 50% inhibition of acetylcholine-induced catecholamine release decreases (33-100%) the stimulation-induced phosphorylation in all polypeptides, with the exception of the 14.8 kilodaltons and the dephosphorylated 20.4 kilodaltons components which were not affected. Two-dimensional gel electrophoresis analysis revealed that exposure of chromaffin cells to acetylcholine produced two types of effect on protein phosphorylation: activation of protein kinase activities affecting about 30 polypeptides; activation of protein phosphatase activities resulting in the dephosphorylation of about 40 polypeptides, most of them appearing as minor phosphoproteins, with the exception of the alpha-subunit of pyruvate dehydrogenase and the 20.4 kilodaltons polypeptide. On the basis of their molecular properties (molecular weight and pI) and their abundance in chromaffin cells, the 80 kilodaltons phosphoprotein which focused at pI 4.8 and the 117.5 kilodaltons phosphoprotein which focused at pI 5.0 were identified as chromogranins A and B, respectively. The relationship between acetylcholine-induced protein phosphorylation (or dephosphorylation) and catecholamine secretion was also investigated. The time course of protein phosphorylation (or dephosphorylation) paralleled or preceded [3H]noradrenaline release for 16 phosphoproteins.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The terminal arborizations of carotid nerve axons within the carotid body of the cat were densely filled with horseradish peroxidase and studied under the light microscope. Two types of terminal arborizations were found in contact with glomus (type I) cells. The axons differed principally in the wealth of terminal swellings. The largest and most numerous type of arborization consisted of one to several clusters of terminals of variable size and shape arising from a single fiber and distributed in a rather ellipsoidal domain of about 9,000 microns 3 for each cluster. Thus, these arborizations might be in close relation with 20-60 glomus cells. The second type of arborization had substantially fewer terminal swellings, occupying a smaller volume and probably contacted significantly less glomus cells. Both kinds of axons had small rounded and large calyciform endings. The larger arborizations were derived consistently from larger fibers than those which produced the smaller arborizations. The results suggest that the carotid nerve axons generate two types of arborizations within the carotid body. Thus, glomus cells potentially can contact two classes of afferent fibers. The functional significance of a dual chemoreceptor innervation of the carotid body is discussed.
Evoked field potentials and extracellular unitary activity were recorded from entorhinal lateral and subicular ventral cortices under conditions of amygdala stimulation in equithesin-anesthetized rats. The stimulation of the lateral and basolateral nuclei of the amygdaloid complex evoked field potentials consisting of negative-positive waves in layers III-VI and positive-negative deflections in the superficial layers of the ventral subdivision of the entorhinal cortex. The stimulation of the lateral nucleus evoked similar potentials in the dorsal subdivision of this cortex. And the stimulation of the lateral and basolateral nuclei of the amygdala evoked negative-positive field potentials in layer III of the subicular cortex. Cellular activity of the entorhinal and subicular cells evoked by stimulation of the lateral and basolateral nuclei consisted of an excitatory response followed by a prolonged suppression period. This activation coincided with the negative potential recorded in the deeper layers of these cortices. Such observations provide support for amygdaloid projection to the entorhinal and subicular cortices as recent anatomical findings suggested. The functional significance of these observations indicate an amygdaloid influence on entorhinal-hippocampal neurotransmission as well as on the ventral subiculum which provides the major output from the hippocampus.
The distribution of M1 and M2 muscarine receptors in the rat brain was investigated by in vitro autoradiography. Muscarine receptors were visualized after complete receptor uncoupling in ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid buffer containing 1 mM N-ethyl maleimide and saturation with the ligand [3H]quinuclidinyl benzilate. Pirenzepine, an M1-selective antagonist, was used in our assays as a counter ligand to occlude M1 sites, allowing the primary ligand, [3H]quinuclidinyl benzilate, to label the remaining M2 muscarine receptors. In adjacent section, M1 muscarine receptors were labelled with [3H]quinuclidinyl benzilate in the presence of sufficient carbachol, and M2-selective agonist, to inhibit the binding to M2 sites. Our results reveal a heterogeneous distribution of M1 and M2 receptors. Increased densities of carbachol-resistant and pirenzepine-sensitive sites (M1 receptor subtype) were apparent over many forebrain structures including the olfactory tubercle, caudate-putamen, nucleus accumbens, hippocampus, amygdala and cerebral cortex. In contrast, pirenzepine-resistant and carbachol-sensitive sites (M2 receptor subtype) were distributed throughout the brain with increased densities apparent over regions known to contain large numbers of cholinergic cell bodies. M2 receptor localization patterns were largely coincident with the regional distribution and intensity of acetylcholinesterase positive sites. Since the M2 receptor pattern appears to parallel regional innervation densities, we conclude that the M2 receptor may serve as a marker for cholinergic pathways. The findings also suggest that M1 muscarine receptors are involved in the presumptive postsynaptic actions of acetylcholine in many forebrain structures.
The binding of the adenosine analogues, 5'-N-ethylcarboxamido[3H]adenosine and N6-cyclohexyl[3H]adenosine, to the rat brain was examined utilizing light-microscopic autoradiographic techniques. While associated with many of the same structures, binding sites for these compounds showed distinct differences in both their patterns of distribution and their capacities to be inhibited by the adenosine analogue, R-phenylisopropyladenosine. Previous studies have shown that, at nanomolar concentrations, cyclohexyladenosine and R-phenylisopropyladenosine bind rather exclusively to the A1 type of adenosine receptors. In contrast, 5'-N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine has almost equal affinity for A1 and A2 sites. Taking advantage of these characteristics, non-A1 binding sites were resolved by examining 5'-N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine binding in the presence of micromolar concentrations of unlabeled R-phenylisopropyladenosine. The autoradiographically demonstrated distribution of R-phenylisopropyladenosine-insensitive 5'-N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine binding sites differed significantly from that of the cyclohexyladenosine binding sites. Such non-A1 binding sites were concentrated in the striatum, nucleus accumbens, medial geniculate, olfactory tubercle, amygdala and certain thalamic nuclei. In contrast to the distribution of A1 adenosine receptor sites, R-phenylisopropyladenosine-insensitive 5'-N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine binding was only low to moderate in the hippocampus, cerebellum and superior colliculus, regions which are strongly positive for cyclohexyladenosine binding. The present study provides the first autoradiographic evidence for multiple adenosine binding sites in the brain by demonstrating that the adenosine analogue 5'-N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine can bind to a site or sites distinct from the A1 adenosine receptor site. The 5'-N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine binding site which is not displaced by low concentrations of R-phenylisopropyladenosine may correspond to an A2 adenosine receptor site and/or an as yet uncharacterized type of adenosine receptor.
In lactating rats, the milk ejection reflex is evoked and maintained by stimulation of the nipples by the suckling young. In order to understand the processing of the suckling stimulus within the spinal cord, urethane-anaesthetized lactating rats were prepared for electrophysiological recording from the thoraco-lumbar spinal cord during stimulation of the nipples. Single shocks to inguinal or abdominal nipples evoked a cord dorsum potential, consisting of an early (2.6 ms) afferent volley followed by a negative wave (100-200 microV; latency 5-7 ms, duration 5-10 ms). Evoked potentials were also recorded at various depths within the spinal cord, with a maximum amplitude (200-400 microV) at a depth of 400-800 microns, 400-800 microns lateral to the mid-line. At a given recording site, the response was maximal for one particular nipple but submaximal potentials could be evoked from adjacent nipples. Simultaneous stimulation of adjacent nipples caused summation of the response. Unit recordings were made from 35 spinal neurons. Upon electrical stimulation of the nipples, the cells responded with an early train of spikes (latency 5-15 ms), and in 6 cells, a later response (140-180 ms), with a higher stimulation threshold, was also observed. All cells examined showed convergence and summation from different nipples. Twenty out of 27 cells were also activated by stretching of the nipples, which evoked a rapidly adapting response; rhythmical stretching produced a more sustained increase in activity. The cells also responded to other natural stimuli such as touch and pressure or stroking the hair around the nipple and had large receptive fields. Six cells were tested with the suckling stimulus. There was a brisk increase in firing as the pup grasped the nipple and then intermittent (every 18-30 s) episodes of enhanced activity, which directly correlated with the suckling movements. These episodes continued for the duration of the suckling test and were enhanced when a second pup was placed on an adjacent nipple. Finally, from a few experiments when a stimulating electrode was placed within the contralateral antero-lateral funiculus at the level of C2-C3 for antidromic identification, it was seen that some of the cells activated from the nipples projected to higher levels. The short latency responses to nipple stimulation, including suckling, suggest that the suckling stimulus reaches the spinal cord ungated.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Horseradish peroxidase-wheatgerm agglutinin was injected subcutaneously into one or more nipples of lactating rats to determine the spinal organization of sensory afferents emanating from the mammary glands. After survival periods of 45-96 h, dorsal root ganglia and segments of the spinal cord and/or medulla oblongata were sectioned and reacted histochemically with tetramethylbenzidine to reveal the transganglionically transported tracer. For each nipple injected, the peroxidase reaction product was found in somata, ranging in diameter from 15 to 60 microns, and fibres in 5-11 contiguous dorsal root ganglia. The number of labelled profiles was highest in the 2-4 central-most ganglia of the series and generally decreased progressively rostrally and caudally. After separate injections into each of the six ipsilateral nipples, labelling occurred in all ipsilateral dorsal root ganglia between the 5th cervical and 6th lumbar spinal segments. Substantial overlap of the spinal projections from adjacent mammary glands was seen, a given dorsal root ganglion innervating 2-3 different glands. Label in the spinal cord was restricted to the medial portion of the superficial dorsal horn. It occurred in what appeared to be terminal fields and fibres essentially in the substantia gelatinosa, but was also seen to extend into the marginal zone and sometimes into deeper regions of the dorsal horn. Label was found in both the gracile and cuneate nuclei of the medulla oblongata, though only occasionally and then only very sparsely. The substantial spread and segmental overlap of labelled mammary afferents, and the fact that most labelled afferents terminated in the dorsal horn, suggest that this spinal region may be an important site for the integration of sensory input from the mammary glands that may play a role in the sensory induction of reflex milk ejection.
In rats anaesthetized with ketamine, rhythmic jaw-opening and jaw-closing movements were induced by palatal stimulation. The two masseter muscles (jaw-closing) and the four digastric muscles (jaw-opening) were fitted with electrodes, which could be used either for electrical stimulation or for recording electromyographic responses. Electrical stimulation of the masseters in the phase when the digastrics were the contracting muscles, caused responses in the digastrics. The amplitude of these responses was dependent on whether the stimulated masseters were active or not. The responses in digastric persisted when contraction of the masseters during stimulation was prevented by dantrolene sodium but they disappeared when the masseteric nerves were blocked with xylocaine. The responses in digastric are thus reflexes from stimulating afferent fibres in the masseteric nerves. Likewise, electrical stimulation of the four digastrics in the phase when the masseters were contracting, caused responses in the masseters. The amplitude of these responses, however, was independent of the state of activity of the stimulated digastrics. Furthermore, the responses in masseter disappeared when contraction of the digastrics was prevented by dantrolene sodium; but they persisted when the digastric nerves were blocked with xylocaine, provided the digastrics continued to twitch to the electric stimuli. The responses in masseter are thus reflexes in masseter caused by mechanical stretch transmitted from the digastric twitches. In the rhythmic preparation, prevention of contraction of the masseters of digastrics by dantrolene sodium or xylocaine leaves the overall frequency and amplitude of the evoked rhythmic activity unchanged.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Anatomical studies utilizing wheat germ lectin-bound horseradish peroxidase demonstrated direct connections between the pontine parabrachial region and the substantia nigra pars reticulata and to a lesser extent, the entopeduncular nucleus as well as a number of other forebrain regions including the amygdala, hypothalamus, thalamus, bed nucleus stria terminalis and substantia innominata. The pontine parabrachial region was also shown to receive direct inputs from the spinal trigeminal system and to send axons to areas surrounding trigeminal and hypoglossal motor areas. Once the anatomical connections were determined, electrophysiological studies were undertaken to investigate some of the functional aspects of these connections between the pontine parabrachial, basal ganglia and trigeminal systems. Extracellular single unit recordings were obtained from 228 cells in the dorsal pontine parabrachial region of the cat. These cells were tested for responsiveness to trigeminal sensory stimulation and activation of basal ganglia outputs (i.e. substantia nigra and entopeduncular nucleus). Twenty-two percent of pontine parabrachial cells responded to only trigeminal stimulation; 4% responded to entopeduncular nucleus only; 37% responded to substantia nigra only, and 28% responded to both substantia nigra and trigeminal stimulation. Furthermore, 43% of pontine parabrachial cells with both substantia nigra and sensory response had the sensory response altered by a preceding stimulus to the substantia nigra. Thus, the substantia nigra is shown to exert influences on both the spontaneous activities and afferent responses of pontine parabrachial neurons. The significance of these findings are discussed in relation to the importance of descending basal ganglia influences and ascending influences from the pontine parabrachial region on various sensorimotor activities.
The importance of the spinothalamic tract in pain transmission makes it an attractive candidate for study with respect to the effects of antinociceptive compounds. We have been interested in the analgesic actions of opioids and noradrenergic agents at the spinal level and have investigated the effects of these agents on extracellularly recorded nociceptive dorsal horn neurons in the rat. Spinothalamic tract cells were identified by antidromic activation from the somatosensory thalamus. Morphine was administered by bathing the spinal cord in an artificial cerebrospinal fluid solution which contained a known concentration of drug. We observed a dose-related inhibition, naloxone-reversible in some cases, of activity produced by spinally administered morphine in identified rat spinothalamic tract cells and dorsal horn nociceptive neurons. Morphine had no effect on stimulus-evoked responses of low threshold dorsal horn neurons.
In the intermediate layers of the rat and mouse colliculus there is a lattice-like pattern of high nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase activity. This lattice is composed of dark bands that are 100-200 micron wide and enclose pale areas of irregular shape. A very similar lattice of high acetylcholinesterase activity is also found in the intermediate layers and this overlaps the diaphorase lattice almost completely. However, in deeper layers the enzymes have a complementary organization with high levels of one being associated with low levels of the other. It is concluded that the histochemical lattices will provide useful patterns with which to compare the terminal organization of afferent systems.
Stimulation of the superior colliculus in rats produces movements of the head and body that resemble either orientation and approach towards a contralateral stimulus, or avoidance of, or escape from, such a stimulus. A variety of evidence indicates that the crossed descending pathway, which runs in the contralateral predorsal bundle to the pontomedullary reticular formation and the spinal cord, is involved in orienting movements. The nature of this involvement was investigated, by assessing the effects on tectally-elicited movements of midbrain knife-cuts intended to section the pathway as it crosses midline in the dorsal tegmental decussation. As expected, ipsilateral movements resembling avoidance or escape were little affected by dorsal tegmental decussation section, whereas contralateral circling movements of the body were almost abolished. However, contralateral movements of the head in response to electrical stimulation were not eliminated, nor were orienting head movements to visual or tactile stimuli. There was some suggestion that section of the dorsal tegmental decussation increased the latency of head movements from electrical stimulation at lateral sites, and decreased the accuracy of orienting movements to sensory stimuli. These results support the view that the crossed tectoreticulospinal system is concerned with approach rather than avoidance movements. However, it appears that other, as yet unidentified, tectal efferent systems are also involved in orienting head movements. It is possible that this division of labour may reflect functional differences between various kinds of apparently similar orienting responses. One suggestion is that the tectoreticulospinal system is concerned less in open-loop orienting responses (that are initiated but not subsequently guided by sensory stimuli), than in following or pursuit movements.
The immunocytochemical localization of S-antigen, a specific protein first discovered in retinal photoreceptors, was studied in the pineal complex of vertebrates (eel, pike, frog, lizard, passerines, mouse, hamster) using monoclonal antibody immunofluorescence. S-antigen immunoreactivity was demonstrated concurrently in retinal photoreceptors and in most pineal phototransducers of all species, i.e. in pineal cells of the receptor series (cone-like, modified photoreceptor cells, pinealocytes) and in cone-like photoreceptors of the frog frontal organ and lizard parietal eye. The labelling was distributed either in all compartments of these cells, or restricted to outer segments. The functional significance of the S-antigen as well as some phylogenetic and ontogenic implication of this marker are discussed.
The occurrence and distribution of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) immunoreactivity in the rat respiratory tract were investigated by means of immunocytochemistry and radioimmunoassay using antibodies raised in rabbits to synthetic rat CGRP. Substantial amounts of CGRP immunoreactivity (range 5-37 pmol/g) were detected in all parts of the respiratory tract, the highest being in the stem bronchus. Gel filtration chromatography of extractable CGRP immunoreactivity revealed one single peak, eluting at the position of synthetic rat CGRP. CGRP immunoreactivity was localized both in mucosal endocrine cells and nerve fibres from the larynx down to the peripheral lung. CGRP-immunoreactive endocrine cells were found singly in trachea and stem bronchi and in groups in intrapulmonary airways. They appeared at a late stage of gestation (17 days), reached a maximum number near term and decreased after birth to maintain a population similar to that of the adult animals by postnatal day 21. Similarly, CGRP-immunoreactive nerve fibres were first identified by day 18 of the gestation period and reached the adult distribution by postnatal day 21. CGRP-immunoreactive nerve fibres were localized among smooth muscle, seromucous glands, beneath and within the epithelium of the airways and around blood vessels. CGRP was also found in sensory ganglia and in motor end plates of the larynx musculature. Neonatal pretreatment with capsaicin caused a marked reduction in CGRP immunoreactivity of nerve fibres in the respiratory tracts as well as a less marked decrease in the population of CGRP-containing endocrine cells of the lung. No change was seen in motor end plates immunostaining. Vagal ligation experiments revealed that CGRP-immunoreactive nerve fibres travelling in the vagus originate mainly from neurons located in the jugular ganglion. Infranodosal right vagal ligation induced a marked loss in CGRP-immunoreactive nerves of the trachea, and of the ipsilateral stem bronchus, but no changes were observed in peripheral lung. By contrast infranodosal left side vagal ligation caused a decrease in CGRP-immunoreactive nerves of the ipsilateral lung and bronchus without affecting the peptide content in the trachea. Left vagal ligation also induced a marked increase in both the intensity of staining and number of CGRP-immunoreactive endocrine cells in the lung. We conclude that CGRP immunoreactivity is localized in both nerve fibres and endocrine cells and is associated principally with the afferent (sensory) innervation of the respiratory tract.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The roles of ornithine decarboxylase and the polyamines in behavioral development were examined through the use of alpha-difluoromethylornithine, a specific irreversible inhibitor of ornithine decarboxylase. alpha-Difluoromethylornithine was administered either prenatally during gestation (days 15-17) or postnatally (days 1-20) to examine critical periods of sensitivity. Prenatal alpha-difluoromethylornithine administration resulted in a deficit in early sensorimotor ontogeny: latencies in surface righting reflex (postnatal days 1-5) and negative geotaxis (postnatal days 5-8) were prolonged, and time spent pivoting (postnatal days 7, 9, and 11) was reduced. In contrast, postnatal alpha-difluoromethylornithine primarily influenced later maturing, complex integrative behaviors such as swimming and open field activity. Thus, the behavioral effects of alpha-difluoromethylornithine exposure are highly dependent upon the age at which the drug is administered, a finding in keeping with the participation of the ornithine decarboxylase/polyamine system in cell replication and differentiation during discrete periods of neural development. The behavioral consequences of ornithine decarboxylase inhibition during these critical periods are thus related primarily both to the timetable for cellular maturation in each brain region.
Conditions leading to specific and integral visualization of dopamine axon terminals (varicosities) were tested in adult rat cerebral hemisphere slices incubated with [3H]dopamine and processed for high resolution radioautography. Specific visualization of the dopamine endings was achieved after incubation with 10(-6) M [3H]dopamine in the presence of a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (pargyline 10(-4) M), and of desipramine (5 X 10(-6) M), an inhibitor of catecholamine uptake by noradrenaline and serotonin neurons. [3H]Dopamine varicosity labeling was eliminated by the addition of 5 X 10(-5) M benztropine (an inhibitor of catecholamine uptake by catecholamine neurons), and was almost absent when dopamine nerve cell bodies of the midbrain had been previously destroyed with 6-hydroxydopamine. In dopamine-denervated neostriatum incubated without desipramine, a second set of labeled terminals was also visible. These were identified as serotoninergic, since their labeling was suppressed by citalopram, an inhibitor of monoamine uptake highly specific for serotonin neurons. There was no desipramine-sensitive but citalopram-resistant varicosity labeling suggestive of neostriatal noradrenaline innervation. In normal striatum, incubation at 35 degrees C always resulted in a labeling of dopamine varicosities restricted to a narrow band which followed the contours and cut surface of this anatomical region. This unusual distribution was the result of an uptake barrier generated by the tightly packed dopamine varicosities. Indeed, the striatal dopamine varicosity labeling was more widespread after partial 6-hydroxydopamine denervation or in normal tissue incubated either with a higher [3H]dopamine concentration (5 X 10(-6) M), in the presence of relatively low benztropine concentrations (10(-5) M), or at lower temperature (15 degrees C). Material incubated at 15 degrees C for 90 min was suitable for purposes of quantification: labeled varicosities were then visualized throughout the striatum and across the full thickness of the slices; moreover, the number of labeled varicosities plotted against radioautographic exposure time increased in parallel and reached a plateau at the same time in neostriatal sectors with widely different innervation densities. At a rostral transverse level across neostriatum, the dorsolateral quadrant showed hyperdense &quot;patches&quot; of labeled terminals distinguishable from an already dense surrounding &quot;matrix&quot;, whereas, ventromedially, the dopamine innervation appeared more uniform and somewhat less dense.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

Prenatal development of the GABAergic system in the rat brain has been studied using an antiserum to GABA-glutaraldehyde-hemocyanin conjugates, specific for GABAergic neurons. The gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) system has been found to differentiate very early relative to other transmitter-identified neurons, such that by embryonic day 13 a well developed fiber network exists in the brainstem, mesencephalon and diencephalon, including a large projection in the posterior commissure and adjacent areas on the surface of the mesencephalon and tectum. Although no cell bodies are visible at this time, it appears that these fibers originate from the caudal brainstem and spinal cord. GABAergic cell bodies begin to appear on embryonic day 14 in the lateral cortical anlage. By embryonic day 16, they are also visible in the basal forebrain and in all regions of cortex where they are located in three zones: in layer I, below the cortical plate, and in the intermediate zone. Also contained in the outer part of layer I is a dense fiber plexus which stains intensely for GABA. These fibers may be part of the first contingent of cortical afferents to invade the telencephalic vesicle, an event which is thought to be a stimulus for the beginning of neuronal differentiation in this region. By E18, two bands of immunoreactivity are visible in layer I, which probably contain both cell bodies and fibers. The trajectories taken by growing GABAergic fibers in the brainstem, mesencephalon and diencephalon at embryonic day 13 and at subsequent stages of development are coincident with regions of both monoaminergic and peptidergic differentiation and appear to correspond to recently reported patterns of benzodiazepine receptors which appear slightly later. The early differentiation of the GABAergic system could indicate a trophic role for GABA in early brain development, possibly involving receptors for this neurotransmitter or related substances.
In a previous report we have shown that the antinociceptive effect elicited by microinjection of morphine into the periaqueductal gray is due, at least in part, to the activation of an ascending serotonergic pathway which releases 5-hydroxytryptamine in the nucleus accumbens. We now report that antinociception induced by intra-periaqueductal gray injection of morphine can be attenuated also by the narcotic antagonist naloxone or the enkephalin antibodies administered into the nucleus accumbens, and potentiated by D-phenylalanine, a putative inhibitor of the degradation of enkephalins. Moreover, the antinociceptive effect induced by 5-hydroxytryptamine administered into nucleus accumbens could be blocked by naloxone injected into the same site, whereas the antinociception elicited by intra-accumbens injection of [D-Ala2,D-Leu5]enkephalin was not affected by cinanserin, a 5-hydroxytryptamine blocking agent. It is concluded that morphine administered to the periaqueductal gray is capable of activating an ascending serotonergic pathway to release 5-hydroxytryptamine in the nucleus accumbens, which in turn activates an enkephalinergic mechanism within the same nucleus, resulting in an antinociceptive effect.
Experiments have been undertaken to determine the nature of the atropine-resistant neurogenic dilation that can be demonstrated in vitro in cephalic arteries of the cat. Levels of vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) and substance P were measured in a number of arteries and related to the extent of the neurogenic dilation that can be elicited in vitro. There is no correlation between the tissue contents of the two peptides. A positive correlation was found between vasoactive intestinal peptide but not substance P content and neurogenic dilation. Vasoactive intestinal peptide but not substance P consistently caused a concentration-dependent dilation of cephalic arteries not subject to significant tachyphylaxis. Vasoactive intestinal peptide antiserum in concentrations that block the dilation to vasoactive intestinal peptide (10(-6) M) but not that due to papaverine, significantly reduced neurodilation of both atropinized and non-atropinized lingual arteries--the cephalic artery with the highest VIP content. These results suggest that vasoactive intestinal peptide and not substance P significantly contributes to the non-cholinergic neurogenic dilation observed in vitro in arterial segments from the head of the cat.
Intracellular recordings were made from neurons of the rat locus coeruleus in a slice of tissue cut from the pons and superfused in vitro at 37 degrees C. Both acetylcholine, in the presence of a muscarinic antagonist, and nicotine depolarized locus coeruleus neurons and increased the rate of action potential discharge. These effects persisted in a superfusing solution that contained no calcium ions and a raised magnesium ion concentration; because such solutions block synaptic potentials in the locus coeruleus, it was concluded that the acetylcholine and nicotine acted directly on the cell from which the recording was made. Acetylcholine-evoked depolarizations were blocked by hexamethonium or dihydro-beta-erythroidine, but not by alpha-bungarotoxin. Recordings of membrane current showed that acetylcholine and nicotine caused a net inward current, the amplitude of which increased linearly as the membrane potential was changed from -40 to -90 mV; the extrapolated reversal potential was about -20 mV (extracellular potassium concentration was 2.5 mmol/l). Depolarizations caused by nicotine declined during the presence of the agonist when the period of superfusion was continued for more than 2 min; repeated applications of nicotine evoked reproducible depolarizations only when the interval between them was at least 1 h. It is concluded that neurons of the rat locus coeruleus have nicotinic receptors with properties similar to those in peripheral ganglia with respect to reversal potential for the ion channel, insensitivity to alpha-bungarotoxin and propensity to desensitize.
Substance P-immunoreactivity and specific substance P binding sites are present in the spinal cord. Receptor autoradiography showed the discrete localization of substance P binding sites in both sensory and motor regions of the spinal cord and functional studies suggested an important role for substance P receptor activation in autonomic outflow, nociception, respiration and somatic motor function. In the current studies, we investigated the cellular localization of substance P binding sites in rat spinal cord using light microscopic autoradiography combined with several lesioning techniques. Unilateral injections of the suicide transport agent, ricin, into the superior cervical ganglion reduced substance P binding and cholinesterase-stained preganglionic sympathetic neurons in the intermediolateral cell column. However, unilateral electrolytic lesions of ventral medullary substance P neurons which project to the intermediolateral cell column did not alter the density of substance P binding in the intermediolateral cell column. Likewise, 6-hydroxydopamine and 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine, which destroy noradrenergic and serotonergic nerve terminals, did not reduce the substance P binding in the intermediolateral cell column. It appears, therefore, that the substance P binding sites are located postsynaptically on preganglionic sympathetic neurons rather than presynaptically on substance P-immunoreactive processes (i.e. as autoreceptors) or on monoamine nerve terminals. Unilateral injections of ricin into the phrenic nerve resulted in the unilateral destruction of phrenic motor neurons in the cervical spinal cord and caused a marked reduction in the substance P binding in the nucleus. Likewise, sciatic nerve injections of ricin caused a loss of associated motor neurons in the lateral portion of the ventral horn of the lumbar spinal cord and a reduction in the substance P binding. Sciatic nerve injections of ricin also destroyed afferent nerves of the associated dorsal root ganglia and increased the density of substance P binding in the dorsal horn. Capsaicin, which destroys small diameter primary sensory neurons, similarly increased the substance P binding in the dorsal horn. These studies show that the cellular localization of substance P binding sites can be determined by analysis of changes in substance P binding to discrete regions of spinal cord after selective lesions of specific groups of neurons. The data show the presence of substance P binding sites on preganglionic sympathetic neurons in the intermediolateral cell column and on somatic motor neurons in the ventral horn, including the phrenic motor nucleus.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

In this report, the computer hardware and software used in the generation of a stereotaxic rat brain atlas are described. The atlas consists of sagittal and frontal sections drawn to the high-resolution page of the Apple II series computer. Brain architectural and macroscopic areas are represented by lines. Microscopic areas are represented by dots. The system employs a large data base to make available hundreds of brain areas on stereotaxic sections containing precise positional information of thousands of specific locations. For each display, the brain area is identified by name and by cross-hairs with digital display of stereotaxic coordinates. These coordinates may be referenced by earbar-zero or bregma. Other program options allow the printing of brain sections and a listing of available brain areas. Although designed for research in the neurosciences, the software may also be used for educational purposes.


It has been hypothesized that the dendritic field size of individual retinal ganglion cells is regulated early in development by interactions among neighboring cells (Wssle and Reiman, Proc. R. Soc. Lond. B. 200:441-461, 1978). An opportunity to test this hypothesis is provided by the consequences of prenatal enucleation that results in an increased density of ganglion cells in the remaining retina (Chalupa et al., Neuroscience 12:1139-1146, 1984). In the present study we compared dendritic field diameters of alpha ganglion cells in normal retinas to those of adult cats that were monocularly enucleated before birth (on embryonic days 42 and 51) and 6 days after birth. In each animal ganglion cells were labeled by central injections of horseradish peroxidase. The retinas were incubated according to a modified Hanker-Yates procedure and whole-mounted. All cells were sampled from the temporal retina along a corridor established by a line drawn through the optic disk and the area centralis. Alpha cells were differentiated into ON and OFF subtypes on the basis of their level of stratification in the inner plexiform layer (Peichl and Wssle, Proc. R. Soc. Lond. B. 212:139-156, 1981). Dendritic field and soma diameters were determined from complete cell drawings by calculating the mean of the two longest orthogonal diameters. Our main findings are: Early monocular enucleation does not disrupt the mosaics of ON and OFF alpha ganglion cells in the remaining retina of adult animals. Within the retinal corridor sampled, the density of alpha cells was substantially greater than normal in the remaining retina of the prenatal enucleates at all eccentricities except the far periphery. Except at the far periphery, the dendritic field diameters of the prenatally enucleated animals were significantly smaller than normal when compared at equivalent eccentricities. However, when compared at equivalent cell densities, dendritic field dimensions in the prenatally enucleated and normal animals were found to be similar. In the prenatal enucleates the somas of these neurons were also significantly smaller than normal. If the monocular enucleation was postnatal, however, the density and the dendritic field diameters of alpha cells did not differ appreciably from normal. These results indicate that the morphology of retinal ganglion cells can be influenced by increasing the density of developing ganglion cells.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
An antibody raised against gamma - amino-butyric acid (GABA) coupled to bovine serum albumin with glutaraldehyde (Hodgson et al: J. Histochem. Cytochem. 33:229-239, '85) was used to localise immunocytochemically the presumptive GABAergic neuronal elements in the cerebellar cortex of the adult rat. employing the unlabelled antibody enzyme method with pre- and post-embedding immunocytochemical procedures, the following cellular structures were observed to be GABA-immunopositive in both the light and electron microscopes: the somata, dendrites, and axonal processes (including axon terminals) of stellate, basket, and Golgi neurons. In immunopositive neuronal somata and dendrites, the reaction product was found to be associated with all intracellular organelles and with the postsynaptic densities of synaptic junctions. Specific GABA-like immunoreactivity was also seen around outer mitochondrial membranes, microtubules, and neurofilaments, and coating synaptic vesicles in presynaptic axon terminals. In the pre-embedding procedure with dilutions of the antiserum between 1:1,000 and 1:2,000, the perikarya and dendrites of Purkinje cells were GABA-immunonegative, whereas at an antiserum dilution of 1:500 the somata of Purkinje cells were mildly GABA-immunoreactive. Purkinje cell axon terminals in the infra- and supraganglionic plexuses and in the deep cerebellar nuclei were always strongly immunopositive. Neuroglia were invariably GABA-immunonegative, as were the dendrites, axons (parallel fibres), and somata of granule cells. Mossy fibre and climbing fibre afferents were also immunonegative. The pattern of immunoreactivity obtained with this antiserum directed against the inhibitory neurotransmitter GABA was found to resemble closely the immunocytochemical distribution of GABA and of the GABA-synthesizing enzyme glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) as reported previously in other immunocytochemical investigations (Oertel et al. and Wu et al: Cytochemical Methods in Neuroanatomy. New York: A. R. Liss, '82; Seguela et al: Neuroscience 16:865-874, '85; Mugnaini and Oertel: GABA and Neuropeptides in the CNS. Handbook of Chemical Neuroanatomy, Vol. 4, Part I. Amsterdam: Elsevier, '85.
Mathematicians, control engineers and information technologists are beginning to take a greater interest in neuroscience. They are perhaps starting to realize that they may be able to learn a few tricks from nature with which to improve their machines. At the same time there is a good chance that neuroscientists will benefit from their input of fresh ideas and techniques with which to attack the problems of understanding neural processing. One area of the brain which seems particularly promising in these respects is the cerebellum.

Based on preliminary suggestions that individual differences in susceptibility to stressful motion might be related to physiological differences in responses of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, we tested the efficacy of dexamethasone and metyrapone in subjects exposed to cross-coupled accelerative semicircular canal stimulation on a rotating chair. Subjects given 0.5 mg of dexamethasone every 6 h for 48 h could endure 80% more stressful motion (P = 0.03) in a within-subjects design study, whereas, no improvement followed treatment with 750 mg of metyrapone[correction of metryapone] every 4 h for 24 h. The efficacy of dexamethasone might be explained in terms of its neurochemical actions on several neurotransmitter systems which are also modulated by such classical antimotion sickness drugs as amphetamine and scopolamine. Because dexamethasone induces adaptive changes within the central nervous system it may prove superior to scopolamine and amphetamine which possess significant side effects, are short acting, and rapidly tolerated.
Psychiatric syndromes are defined psychologically. Why then has Holzman written that psychiatry maintains a wall between itself and psychology? Why does the Archives publish so few articles on psychological topics? And why does psychiatry neglect psychology in other ways? Holzman has suggested that chauvinism is at fault, but for Archives this is not the case. It seems more likely that the problem reflects difficulties with our understanding of the nature of teleonomic explanations.
A BASIC program for a 128 KByte microcomputer is described which is deviced to support every day clinical neurophysiological investigations. It provides calculating routines and normal values with a hard copy print option for visual, auditory, and somatosensory evoked potentials, peripheral motor and sensory nerve conduction velocities, and needle EMG potential analysis. All important arm and leg nerves and muscles are included. By its simplicity the program gives easy access to changes according to individual requirements.
Fast transport of axonal vesicles and organelles is a microtubule-associated movement (Griffin, J. W., K. E. Fahnestock, L. Price, and P. N. Hoffman, 1983, J. Neuroscience, 3:557-566; Schnapp, B. J., R. D. Vale, M. P. Sheetz, and T. S. Reese, 1984, Cell, 40:455-462; Allen, R. D., D. G. Weiss, J. H. Hayden, D. T. Brown, H. Fujiwake, and M. Simpson, 1985, J. Cell Biol., 100:1736-1752). Proteins that mediate the interactions of axoplasmic vesicles and microtubules were studied using stable complexes of microtubules and vesicles (MtVC). These complexes formed spontaneously in vitro when taxol-stabilized microtubules were mixed with sonically disrupted axoplasm from the giant axon of the squid Loligo pealei. The isolated MtVCs contain a distinct subset of axoplasmic proteins, and are composed primarily of microtubules and attached membranous vesicles. The MtVC also contains nonmitochondrial ATPase activity. The binding of one high molecular mass polypeptide to the complex is significantly enhanced by ATP or adenyl imidodiphosphate. All of the axoplasmic proteins and ATPase activity that bind to microtubules are found in macromolecular complexes and appear to be vesicle-associated. These data allow the identification of several vesicle-associated proteins of the squid giant axon and suggest that one or more of these polypeptides mediates vesicle binding to microtubules.
Advance planning and execution-time organization of sequences of five finger taps were studied in four experiments. Intertap intervals were required to be equal. In some experimental conditions, one of the taps had to be stronger than the other four. Serial position of the stressed tap, number of alternative stress positions, and tapping rate were manipulated. Time to initiate the sequence after presentation of a reaction stimulus (RT), intertap intervals, and force of the taps were measured. the different effects of stress production and choosing between alternative stress locations on the RT of fast as compared to slow sequences suggest that a plan was selected and activated for the whole sequence only when it had to be executed at a fast rate. Additional organization of the fast sequences during execution was inferred from the intertap intervals, force patterns, and stress location errors, that were all different from those observed in slow sequences. The effects of stress production on timing are discussed in relation to existing timing models.
One hundred and fifty years have elapsed since the birth of John Hughlings-Jackson, a pivotal figure in the development of clinical neuroscience. In this review the origin of Jackson's postulate of a hierarchical organisation of function in the nervous system is described in the context of his education and his contacts with contemporaries, both in his clinical practice at The London Hospital and at the National Hospital, Queen Square, and in relation to the evolutionary approach to the organisation and ideas on biology and society set out by the philosopher Herbert Spencer.


The pattern of axonal destruction and demyelination that occurs in experimental contusion injury of cat thoracic spinal cord was studied by line sampling of axons in 1 micron thick plastic sections with the light microscope. Injuries were produced by a weight-drop apparatus, with the vertebral body (T9) below the impact stabilized by supports under the transverse processes. The effects of two combinations of weight and height were examined: 10 or 13 g dropped 20 cm onto an impact area of 5 mm diameter. Animals were kept for 3-5 months after injury, then fixed by perfusion for histological analysis. The number of surviving myelinated axons was found to vary both with the weight used and with the size of the spinal cord. A measure of impact intensity was derived from the calculated momentum of the weight at impact divided by the cross sectional area of the cord (interpolated from dimensions measured rostral and caudal of the lesion following fixation). At impact intensities greater than 0.02 kg-m/s/cm2 there was practically no survival of axons at the center of the injury site, combined with almost complete breakdown of the pial margin. Between 0.08 and 0.2 kg-m/s/cm2 the number of surviving axons varied between 100,000 and 2,000, approximating a negative exponential function (r = -0.88). The number of axons surviving in the outer 100 microns of the cord varied practically linearly (r = -0.82) between near normal and less than 1% of normal over the same range of injury intensity. The number of surviving axons decreased with depth from the pia, also approximating a negative exponential function, with a 10-fold decrease in density over approximately 500 microns. The average slope of this relation with depth remained similar over the range of injury intensity examined, though the slope appeared inversely related to variation in axonal survival for different individuals at a given intensity. It is argued that the loss of axons is probably determined primarily by mechanical stretch at the time of impact. Its centrifugal pattern may be explained by longitudinal displacement of the central contents of the cord, reflecting the viscoelastic &quot;boundary layer&quot; properties of parenchymal flow within the meningeal tube. This is illustrated with reference to the behavior of a gelatin model under compression. The preferential loss of large caliber axons and the characteristic shift to abnormally thin myelin sheaths (resulting from post-traumatic demyelination) both varied in extent independently of injury intensity and overall axonal survival.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Primary afferent nerve fibers to the spinal cord in the adult rat were labeled by applying horseradish peroxidase to the cut end of one of the following hindlimb nerves; the tibial, medial plantar, lateral plantar, common peroneal, saphenous, sural, lateral femoral cutaneous or obturator nerve. Maximal labeling intensity was found in the dorsal horn after 36-72 h survival. Labeling was observed in different dorsal horn laminae at different levels within the L1-S1 spinal cord segments, depending on which nerve horseradish peroxidase had been exposed to, probably reflecting the individual composition of afferent fiber types. Although a certain overlap was found, the central projections of the eight different nerves investigated formed well delineated three dimensional compartments within the medial 2/3 to 3/4 of the dorsal horn. This was most clearly discernible in lamina II. Although interindividual differences were present, bilaterally identical operations gave symmetrical projection patterns in the dorsal horn. The results indicate that dorsal horn projections of hindlimb nerves are organized in a highly ordered somatotopic fashion.
In the purely cholinergic nerve endings isolated (i.e. synaptosomes) from the electric organ of the fish Torpedo, the enzyme choline acetyltransferase was found to exist not solely in its well-known soluble form but also in a form which is non-ionically bound to the plasma membrane; this activity could not be solubilized in solutions of high ionic strength (0.5 M NaCl). The non-ionic detergent Triton X-114 was used to solubilize synaptosomes isolated from either the electric organ of Torpedo or rat brain. This detergent allows to separate hydrophilic from amphiphilic proteins of cells or subcellular fractions. Twelve per cent of the synaptosomal choline acetyltransferase partitioned as amphiphilic and 80-97% as hydrophilic activity. The percentage of amphiphilic activity present in synaptosomes was significantly higher than that of the form of activity (4.4%) extracted from samples containing only the soluble form of choline acetyltransferase but was significantly lower than the percentage of amphiphilic enzyme present in preparations of synaptosomal plasma membrane (20-22%) which were enriched in the non-ionically membrane-bound form of choline acetyltransferase. These results indicate that the soluble and the non-ionically membrane-bound enzymes differ in their capacity to interact with non-ionic detergents. The preparations of synaptosomal plasma membranes contained significantly higher proportions of detergent-insoluble choline acetyltransferase activity than did the whole synaptosomes; the difference was more striking for the Torpedo than for the rat enzyme. This detergent-insoluble activity was not due to aggregates of the enzyme. Some properties of the hydrophilic and amphiphilic choline acetyltransferase of Torpedo were analyzed. The two forms of the enzyme did not exhibit different affinities for their substrates; they were found to differ with respect to their sensitivity to inhibition by increasing concentrations of the two products of the reaction, acetylcholine and coenzyme A and heat inactivation at 45 degrees C. Most probably the hydrophilic and amphiphilic activities correspond to what was referred to as soluble and non-ionically membrane-bound choline acetyltransferase, respectively. The amphiphilic form may be an integral enzyme of the plasma membrane of cholinergic nerve endings or may be tightly bound to a specific protein in this membrane which may act as a &quot;receptor&quot; for choline acetyltransferase.
The effects of diazepam (0.1-1.0 mg/kg i.v.) upon local cerebral glucose utilization, were analysed in 61 anatomically discrete areas of the conscious rat brain using [14C]-2-deoxyglucose quantitative autoradiography. The administration of diazepam resulted in significant reductions in the rate of glucose use in every region investigated. The regional pattern of alterations in glucose utilization was rather homogeneous, with the majority of brain regions analysed showing reductions of between 20 and 40% in response to 0.3 mg/kg diazepam. Only two regions of the central nervous system differed significantly from the widespread, homogeneous reductions. In the mammillary body, the rate of glucose utilization was more sensitive to depression than elsewhere in the brain (55% reductions following 0.3 mg/kg diazepam), whilst in the lateral amygdala, the rate of glucose use was less sensitive (8% reductions following 0.3 mg/kg diazepam). The effects of diazepam were compared to those elicited by i.v. injection of the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) agonists, muscimol and tetrahydroisoxazolopyridinol (THIP), as reported previously by the authors. Although muscimol and THIP, like diazepam, reduced glucose use in every region of the brain, visual inspection of the autoradiograms suggested that whilst the patterns of regional responsiveness to the two GABA agonists were almost identical, they were different to the pattern of response evoked by diazepam. A rigorous system of analysis was devised making use of the dose-response profiles in each of the 61 brain areas to construct a regional hierarchy of responsiveness to the three drugs and allowing comparison of their effects on the brain as a whole. This critical form of data evaluation revealed that there was a more regionally homogeneous response to diazepam than to either muscimol or THIP, and whilst the regional hierarchy of responses to the GABA agonists was very similar, both differed from diazepam. It would appear that whilst benzodiazepines may interact with the GABA receptor, their effects upon the integrated functional activity of the brain as a whole differs markedly from that evoked by putative GABA receptor agonists.
Complete unilateral fimbria-fornix transections, including the overlying cingulate cortex, were administered to female rats. At time points from 1 day to 6 weeks, the septal-diagonal band region was examined using acetylcholinesterase histochemistry, Cresyl Violet cell staining, and choline acetyltransferase biochemistry. As early as 1 day following the transection a decrease in acetylcholinesterase positive cell body staining was observed in the medial septum; however, no loss of Nissl-stained neurons was measured in Cresyl Violet stained sections until 1 week after the lesion. Maximal loss of acetylcholinesterase-positive cells, as visualized after irreversible acetylcholinesterase inhibition, was measured at 1 week, and no further change was observed at time points up to 6 weeks after operation. The loss of acetyltransferase-positive cells was greatest in the medial septal area (-65%) and the vertical limb of the diagonal band (-55%). Little cell loss was measured in the horizontal limb of the diagonal band. This is consistent with the known projections of these cell bodies. Remaining acetylcholinesterase-positive cell bodies in the medial septum had shrunk by about 20% (measured as the diameter along the major axis). A marked neuronal cell loss (about 50%) was demonstrable in the medial septum and vertical limb of the diagonal band in the Cresyl Violet-stained sections, too. A pile-up of acetylcholinesterase-stained material was observed in the dorsal-lateral quadrant of the septal area just proximal to the lesion at 1 day following transection. This pile-up occurred in the medial septum and diagonal band area up to 1 week following the transection, and had nearly disappeared by 2 weeks post-transection. Choline acetyltransferase biochemical activity, measured in samples of whole septum, decreased significantly at 1 day but subsequently returned to control levels. By 2 weeks following transection, an increase in acetylcholinesterase-positive stained fibers was observed in the dorsal-lateral quadrant of the septum, ipsilateral to the lesion relative to the contralateral septum. This response, which was interpreted as sprouting from the lesioned axons proximal to the transection, probably accounted for the rise in choline acetyltransferase biochemical activity in the whole septum following the reduction on the first day.
The topographical organization of the projections from the cerebral cortex to the head of the caudate nucleus was studied in the cat using the horseradish peroxidase method. Various amounts of horseradish peroxidase were injected into several sites of the head portion of the caudate nucleus at about the frontal level where its cross section was widest. Injections of small amounts of horseradish peroxidase retrogradely labeled neurons in rather limited cortical areas bilaterally, showing the localized organization of the projections. Neurons in the lateral portions of the ventral bank of the cruciate sulcus and in the dorsal bank (areas 4 gamma and 4 delta) were labeled after horseradish peroxidase injections into the dorsolateral part of the head of the caudate nucleus. Neurons in the intermediate portions of the ventral bank (areas 6 a delta and 6 infra fundum) were strongly labeled after dorsolateral or ventrointermediate injections, and neurons in the medial portion (area 6a beta), after dorsomedial, dorsointermediate, ventrointermediate or central injections. These findings indicate that areas 4 gamma and 4 delta project to the dorsolateral part of the caudate nucleus, areas 6a delta and 6 infra fundum to the lateral half, and area 6a beta to a more medial portion. Other findings revealed that the gyrus proreus projects to the medial part of the caudate nucleus and the anterior cingulate gyrus to the dorsal region.
The major soluble protein of bovine chromaffin granules chromogranin A was purified by reverse-phase high performance liquid chromatography. Brief incubations with either acetylcholinesterase or trypsin cleaved chromogranin A to yield two chromogranin-immunoreactive polypeptides which were similar in molecular weight to two of the major endogenous chromogranin polypeptides. A number of peptidase inhibitors which strongly inhibited tryptic digestion of chromogranin A also inhibited the acetylcholinesterase digestion, although they were less potent. More prolonged digestion of chromogranin A with acetylcholinesterase produced a large number of peptides which were similar to some of the endogenous chromogranin peptides in their elution profile by high performance liquid chromatography. In contrast, complete tryptic digestion of chromogranin A yielded peptides with a totally different elution profile. The experiments indicate that acetylcholinesterase possesses a peptidase activity which is similar, but not identical to trypsin, and suggest that a second non-tryptic activity is also present. They also suggest that acetylcholinesterase, an enzyme found in chromaffin cells, may process chromogranin A to yield lower molecular weight chromogranins in bovine chromaffin cells.
Antisera specific for gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) or its biosynthetic enzyme, glutamate decarboxylase, were used in pre- and postembedding immunocytochemical techniques at the light and electron microscopic levels, to visualize the GABAergic innervation of the hypothalamic supraoptic nucleus. Immunostaining for glutamate decarboxylase or gamma-aminobutyric acid were also combined with oxytocin and vasopressin immunolocalization, thereby permitting evaluation of the contribution of the innervation onto each type of neuron in this nucleus. Light microscopy of semithin plastic sections or vibratome slices stained for glutamate decarboxylase or gamma-aminobutyric acid, with peroxidase-antiperoxidase as immunolabel, revealed an extensive punctate labeling in the supraoptic nucleus and its immediate surroundings. Quantitative analysis of glutamate decarboxylase immunostaining in semithin sections indicated a comparable density of immunopositive punctae at the anterior and posterior levels of the nucleus (14-27 X 10(6) per mm3 tissue). Glutamate decarboxylase- or gamma-aminobutyric acid-immunoreactive cell bodies were never observed within the nucleus although they were detected in the hypothalamus immediately dorsolateral to the nucleus. Electron microscopy of vibratome slices treated with antiglutamate decarboxylase or antigamma-aminobutyric acid and peroxidase-antiperoxidase, or of ultrathin sections stained directly with antigamma-aminobutyric acid and immunoglobulin-coupled colloidal gold, showed that the immuno-reactive punctae represented, in the main, axonal terminals. They invariably contained small, rounded clear vesicles and, at times, one or two larger, dense cored vesicles; they all formed symmetrical synapses onto magnocellular cell bodies and dendrites. Oxytocin and vasopressin neurons were contacted in a similar fashion by glutamate decarboxylase- or gamma-aminobutyric acid-positive boutons in semithin sections of the nucleus stained simultaneously for glutamate decarboxylase and oxytocin and in ultrathin sections stained for glutamate decarboxylase or gamma-aminobutyric acid and oxytocin or vasopressin. Glutamate decarboxylase- or gamma-aminobutyric acid-positive terminals often formed synapses onto two postsynaptic elements in the same plane of section (&quot;double&quot; synapses), a synaptic configuration usually encountered in supraoptic nuclei of lactating animals. In such cases, the postsynaptic somata were oxytocinergic.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Intracellular recording and staining was applied to study non-pyramidal neurons in the guinea-pig hippocampus. To avoid accidental impalement of pyramidal or granule cells, two hippocampal regions known to be devoid of pyramidal or granule cells were chosen. In transverse and longitudinal slices, neurons of the deep hilar region (zone 4 of Amaral3), and in transverse slices, neurons of the stratum lacunosum-moleculare (CA3) were impaled. The intracellular staining with Lucifer Yellow revealed that of 20 neurons stained in these zones all were non-pyramidal neurons. Hilar neurons, situated just below the granular layer, differed from granule cells and CA3 neurons with respect to their action potential waveform and their current/voltage relationship. In contrast to granule cells, hilar neurons exhibited spontaneous bursts in the presence of bicuculline (25 microM). In all neurons impaled in the hilar region and the stratum lacunosum-moleculare (n = 42), inhibitory postsynaptic potentials could be elicited. These inhibitory postsynaptic potentials were blocked by bicuculline. In transverse slices, perforant path stimulation elicited inhibition preceding excitation in hilar neurons and excitation preceding inhibition in granule cells. Since non-pyramidal neurons are likely to be inhibitory neurons, our data suggest that GABAergic neurons in the hilus or in the stratum lacunosum-moleculare are controlled by inhibitory GABAergic synapses. This was verified by immunocytochemistry using antibodies against glutamate decarboxylase, the gamma-aminobutyric acid synthetizing enzyme. In both hippocampal regions studied, glutamate decarboxylase-positive synaptic terminals on glutamate decarboxylase-positive cells were observed. It is concluded that disinhibition is an important feature of information processing in the hippocampus, and that disinhibition is mediated by GABAergic synapses on GABAergic neurons.
The nigrotectal pathway plays a role in the generation of saccade related responses by cells in the deep layers of the superior colliculus. By using a retrograde horseradish peroxidase technique that homogeneously fills neurons, the present experiments demonstrate that the source of the nigrotectal projection to the intermediate gray layer of the grey squirrel (Sciurus carolinensis) is a heterogeneous population of neurons whose somas and dendrites are concentrated in the rostral pole of pars reticulata. This region of pars reticulata receives projections from the posterior caudate, which in turn is a target of both the pulvinar and visual cortex. In addition, these experiments reveal the presence of a second, distinct set of neurons projecting to the midbrain tectum that are located in pars lateralis of the substantia nigra. These neurons can be distinguished from those in pars reticulata by their homogeneity and by their prominent basal dendrites. Furthermore, pars lateralis of the squirrel substantia nigra is, on cytoarchitectonic and immunocytochemical grounds, a distinct subdivision that does not receive projections from the posterior caudate. We conclude that both pars reticulata and lateralis are sources of the nigrotectal pathway. In addition, our results suggest, on connectional grounds, that the rostral pole of pars reticulata may be specialized to subserve the visual guidance of orienting movements.
The proportion of neurons immunoreactive for gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), and their rostrocaudal distribution in the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus of the rat, were determined quantitatively using post-embedding GABA-immunochemistry on semithin resin embedded coronal sections followed by stereological analysis. The mean total volume numerical density of neurons (total number of neurons per mm3) in the dLGN was 67,077 +/- 4412 mm-3 (mean +/- SEM; n = 5), comprising a mean volume numerical density for GABA-immunopositive neurons of 14,584 +/- 1324 mm-3, and a mean volume numerical density of GABA-immunonegative neurons of 52,493 +/- 3419 mm-3, GABA-immunopositive neurons constituted 21.7 +/- 0.5% of the total neuronal composition of the rat dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus. Although no rostrocaudal variation was detected in the total volume numerical density of neurons, the relative proportion of GABA-immunopositive neurons was significantly lower in the caudal segment (18.1 +/- 0.6%) compared with the middle (24.9 +/- 0.9%) and the rostral segments (22.1%). Furthermore, on the basis of somatic size distributions, GABA-immunonegative neurons were seen to be significantly smaller in the caudal segment than in the more anterior two segments. The somatic size of GABA-immunopositive neurons showed no rostrocaudal variation through the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus. These data provide a morphological correlate for the structural and functional subdivision of the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus described previously in electrophysiological and morphological studies.

In rats, horseradish peroxidase crystals were injected in motor cortical foci functionally identified by means of the motor effects evoked by electrical stimulations. The location in the thalamus of the neurons linked to different motor cortical foci was studied. Thalamic neurons were retrogradely labeled in both &quot;motor&quot; (ventralis lateralis and ventralis medialis) and &quot;non-motor&quot; nuclei: centralis lateralis, lateralis posterior, mediodorsalis and posterior thalamic nuclear group, as well as the ventrobasal complex. The ventrobasal complex was labeled after horseradish peroxidase injections in hindlimb and trunk motor areas. The ascending projections toward the motor cortex from both &quot;motor&quot; and &quot;non-motor&quot; thalamic nuclei are organized more precisely and more elaborately than previously reported. The motor cortical afferents from the nucleus ventralis lateralis are organized in three planes, rostrocaudally, dorsoventrally and mediolaterally. An inverted relation exists in the rostrocaudal plane between the nucleus ventralis lateralis and the motor cortex: the caudal motor cortex region (hindlimb) receives fiber inputs from the rostral region of the nucleus ventralis lateralis, whereas the caudal zone of the nucleus ventralis lateralis projects to the rostral motor cortex region (forelimb and vibrissae). A dorsoventral organization has also been observed in the rostral region of the nucleus ventralis lateralis: the ventral aspect is the source of fibers directed to the distal hindlimb region, whereas fibers originating from the dorsal aspect are directed to the proximal hindlimb area. A mediolateral relationship exists between medial and lateral sides of the nucleus ventralis lateralis and, respectively, proximal and distal forelimb cortical areas. There is some overlap between the various nuclear regions thus delineated. Four functional zones were found in the lateral half of the nucleus ventralis medialis and were classified according to their projection to the motor cortex; these are involved in motor control of the proximal and distal forelimb, vibrissae and ocular movements. The projection is topographically organized according to both an inverted rostrocaudal and a direct dorsoventral-mediolateral arrangement. Caudally, dorsal and ventral nuclear parts project to rostromedial (vibrissae) and rostrolateral (distal forelimb) regions of the motor cortex, respectively. More rostral nuclear zones project to more caudal (proximal forelimb, eye) cortical regions. There is little overlap between these four nuclear subdivisions. The nucleus centralis lateralis projects to vibrissae and proximal, as well as distal, forelimb areas.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Small pieces of Torpedo electric organ were treated with 4-aminopyridine, a drug which greatly increases the duration of transmitter release in a single nerve impulse, transforming the normally brief electroplaque potential to a giant discharge. Specimens of tissue were cryofixed by rapid freezing using liquid coolants at precise time intervals during transmission of a single giant discharge, and then examined by freeze fracture. In each experiment, we monitored the electrical response of one specimen during the freezing run to check the physiological responsiveness of the tissue and to determine the precise time of contact with the cryogenic liquid. The general appearance of nerve terminals after cryofixation was similar to that of terminals from chemically fixed and cryoprotected tissue. The major morphological change observed during the time course of the giant discharge was a marked increase in the density of intramembrane particles larger than 10 nm on both the protoplasmic and external faces of the presynaptic membrane. This change appeared in specimens frozen within the first few milliseconds after the stimulus, that is, at a time corresponding to the onset of the rising phase of the potential (3 ms). At the end of the giant discharge, the particle density returned to control values with the same time course as the potential trace. Pits of 20 nm or larger, probably due to vesicle-membrane interaction, were found in a small proportion of nerve terminals. Their occurrence increased only at 120-150 ms after the stimulus, that is, a long time after the beginning of the giant potential and of the change in intramembrane particles. The size distribution of particles was also determined in the membrane of synaptic vesicles exposed by cross fracture of terminal boutons; it was found to be similar to that of the unstimulated presynaptic membrane and it did not change during the giant discharge. Stimulation experiments were also carried out in a modified solution containing no added calcium, 20 mM magnesium and 4-aminopyridine. The propagation of impulses along the nerves to the electric organ was not inhibited in the modified solution but acetylcholine release was prevented and no increase in particle density was found on the presynaptic membrane. These and previous biochemical experiments on this tissue suggest that the release of the neuro-transmitter acetylcholine is associated with a transient occurrence of large intramembrane particles on the two fracture faces of the presynaptic membrane.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Neurons in the hippocampal formation of the rat that project to the medial nucleus accumbens were identified following the retrograde transport of a conjugate of horseradish peroxidase with wheat germ agglutinin. The great majority of such projecting neurons were located in the ventral subiculum and were pyramidal in shape; the pyramidal nature of 25 such retrogradely labelled neurons was established by Golgi impregnation. In material processed to reveal both retrogradely labelled cells and cholecystokinin-immunoreactivity, no immunoreactive projecting neurons were found. However, 48 identified projecting neurons, probably pyramidal, were found to receive input from cholecystokinin-immunoreactive boutons that formed symmetrical synaptic contacts with the soma or proximal dendrites. It is suggested that one function of cholecystokinin-immunoreactive neurons in the hippocampal formation might be to influence the output of the pyramidal neurons that project to the nucleus accumbens. Since this pathway is one of the main links between the limbic system and the basal ganglia, it is conceivable that changes in the cholecystokinin levels in the hippocampus, as found in schizophrenia, might influence behaviour through the pathway connecting the hippocampus with the nucleus accumbens.
The regional distribution of the specific D1 agonist [3H]SKF 38393 (SKF 38393, 2,3,4,5-tetra-hydro-7,8-dihydroxy-1-phenyl-1H-3-benzazepine) has been studied autoradiographically in the rat CNS. The binding of [3H]SKF 38393 to striatal sections was saturable, stereospecific, reversible, of high affinity (Kd = 9.9 nM) and partly sodium sensitive; it occurred at a single population of sites and possessed the pharmacological characteristics of the dopamine D1 receptor. The highest levels of [3H]SKF 38393 binding sites were found in the caudate-putamen, nucleus accumbens, olfactory tubercle and substantia nigra. Moderately high concentrations of the [3H]ligand were observed in the amygdala, endopyriform nucleus, nucleus olfactorius anterior, lateral septum, primary olfactory cortex, cerebellum (molecular layer) and spinal cord. An intermediate labelling was found in the thalamus, habenula, subthalamic nucleus, hypothalamus, ventral tegmental area, superior colliculus, hippocampus and cerebral cortex. Moderate levels of [3H]SKF 38393 binding were observed in the globus pallidus and arcuate nucleus. The autoradiographic distribution of [3H]SKF 38393 overlapped with that of [3H]N,n-propylnorapomorphine, a radioligand which labels the D2 dopamine receptors, in a number of dopamine-rich brain areas but there were several areas which exhibited a high density of [3H]SKF 38393 binding sites but undetectable concentrations of [3H]N,n-propylnorapomorphine. Moreover, in the spinal cord, the subregional localization of these [3H]ligands clearly differed. Intrastriatal injection of ibotenic acid caused a large decrease in [3H]SKF 38393 and [3H]N,n-propylnorapomorphine binding in the striatum and provoked a reduction of [3H]SKF 38393 but not [3H]N,n-propylnorapomorphine binding in the substantia nigra confirming the view that nigral D1 but not D2 receptors are located on striatonigral fibres.
Synaptosomes isolated from the rat brain corpus striatum and locust head and thoracic ganglia were loaded with radioactive neurotransmitter ([3H]dopamine and [3H]acetylcholine, respectively) and then treated with alpha-latrotoxin and other fractions (fractions C, D and E of Frontali et al.8) obtained by Sephadex G200 column chromatography from black widow spider venom gland homogenates. As shown by sodium dodecyl sulphate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, alpha-latrotoxin is a high Mr protein, whereas fractions C-E are mixtures of several proteins, that include small amounts of contaminating alpha-latrotoxin (especially in fraction C). In rat synaptosomes alpha-latrotoxin induced massive neurotransmitter release, and some release was induced also by high concentrations of fractions C and D. These responses were blocked almost completely by a monospecific anti-alpha-latrotoxin serum, indicating that they were all due to alpha-latrotoxin. Release of [3H]acetylcholine from locust synaptosomes was induced by the various preparations investigated. alpha-Latrotoxin was about 10-fold less potent in locust than in rat synaptosomes. The effects of fractions C-E tended to disappear with storage. The most active batches of fractions C and E were even more potent than alpha-latrotoxin, while the D fraction was approximately 5-fold less potent. The anti-alpha-latrotoxin antiserum inhibited part of the responses elicited by fractions C and E, but left fraction D almost unaffected. Release by D and E fractions was maintained even when Ca2+ was removed from the incubation medium.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The effects of excitatory amino acid antagonists on extracellular field potentials in the olfactory bulb produced by lateral olfactory tract stimulation were analysed in vivo. The compounds tested D-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate, L-(+)2-amino-4-phosphonobutyrate, gamma-D-glutamylglycine, L-glutamic acid diethylester and cis-2,3-piperidine dicarboxylic acid, were administered by brain dialysis. Of the compounds tested, only cis-2,3 piperidine-dicarboxylic acid and gamma-D-glutamylglycine were able to suppress the synaptic excitation of granule cells. This pharmacological profile suggests the involvement of non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. However, the suppression was accompanied by a reduction in the amplitude of the presynaptic volley. A second finding was that D-2-amino-5-phosphono-valerate and gamma-D-glutamyl glycine attenuated granule cell mediated inhibition of mitral cells, suggesting the involvement of N-methyl-D-aspartate-sensitive receptors. The possibility that mitral cells and that either centrifugal fibres, or an intrinsic olfactory bulb feedback loop might use an excitatory amino acid as its neurotransmitter is therefore discussed.
It has been hypothesized that chemical interactions between neurons in the central nervous system can occur in the absence of well defined synaptic complexes, but morphological correlates have been difficult to find. The present study demonstrates exocytotic release from large (70-130 nm) dense cored vesicles at structurally nonspecialized areas along the plasmalemma of structurally different categories of terminals and occasionally from dendrites and axons within the neuropil of the trigeminal subnucleus caudalis. In rats, the marginal (lamina I) and substantia gelatinosa (lamina II) layers contain the central terminals of primary afferent fibers from the infraorbital nerve that supply the skin and whiskers (vibrissae). Different types of interneurons are also present and may modify the input being relayed to higher centers. While exocytotic profiles were present in control animals, they increased significantly (P less than 0.01) on the ipsilateral side 1-24 h after a unilateral skin lesion in the vibrissae area. A second increase (P less than 0.001) occurred 14-15 days after the lesion. Virtually all examples of large vesicle exocytosis were observed at structurally nonspecialized sites while those at the active synaptic zones involved small clear vesicles. Substance P-like immunofluorescence, present in controls and on the ipsilateral side during the first 6 days, subsequently declined until 4 weeks after surgery when some recovery was noted. The increase in large vesicle exocytosis and the decrease in substance P are interpreted to reflect functional adjustments of different neurons in response to the lesion. The exocytosis involving large dense cored vesicles may serve to deliver transmitters and/or neuropeptide modulators to appropriate receptors in a wider area than release into a specialized synaptic cleft would allow.
Cells were isolated by collagenase digestion of chicken adrenal glands. Catecholamine secretion could be stimulated by acetylcholine, carbamylcholine, potassium or veratridine. Methacholine, muscarine and oxotremorine were also effective secretagogues whereas nicotine was not. Secretion evoked by acetylcholine was blocked by low concentrations of atropine but was relatively insensitive to hexamethonium. Atropine-sensitive secretion required both external sodium and calcium, was unaffected by tetrodotoxin, blocked by methoxy verapamil and nifedipine, and potentiated by BAY-K-8644. These data suggest that muscarinic activation of these cells facilitates tetrodotoxin insensitive depolarization, thereby opening conventional voltage-sensitive calcium channels. The mechanism by which calcium activates catecholamine secretion was investigated in cells that had been made permeable by exposure to brief intense electric fields. Catecholamine release required Mg-adenosine 5' triphosphate, was half-maximally activated by 1 microM Ca2+ and could be inhibited by high concentrations of Mg2+. At low Ca2+ concentrations, release was potentiated by 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate, dioctanoylglycerol, guanosine 5'-O-(3-thiotriphosphate) and 5'-guanylylimidodiphosphate, all of which increased the apparent affinity of exocytosis for Ca2+.
Substance P immunoreactivity was localized to dense-cored vesicles in parasympathetic preganglionic nerve terminals in the bullfrog cardiac ganglion. Analysis with radioimmunoassay and high pressure liquid chromatography indicated that the immunoreactive substance was more similar to substance P than to substance K but was not identical to either. The bullfrog substance P was also shown to be different than kassinin, eledoisin, ranatensin, bombesin, neuromedin K and physalaemin. Although the peptide was present in most of the terminals in the ganglion and appeared to be releasable in a calcium-dependent manner, intracellular recordings from ganglion neurons during stimulation revealed no electrophysiological events that might be mediated by an endogenous peptide. In addition, the direct application of substance P to ganglion neurons generally produced no changes in membrane potential, membrane conductance, somal calcium spikes or nerve-evoked release of acetylcholine. High concentrations of substance P did cause an apparent increase in the rate of desensitization of the nicotinic receptors but there was little indication that this phenomenon would occur under physiological conditions. It is suggested that bullfrog substance P is released as a neurotransmitter but is involved in electrically silent events in the postsynaptic neurons or is acting on non-neuronal cells near the terminals. The possible implications of these results for peptidergic systems in general are discussed.
The release of tachykinins from isolated slice preparations of the guinea-pig spinal cord and ureter was studied in vitro. Capsaicin (10 microM) caused release of substance P, neurokinin A and an eledoisin-like component from both the spinal cord and ureter. The release of tachykinins induced by capsaicin or potassium (60 mM) was calcium dependent. No detectable release of neurokinin B or neuropeptide K, an N-terminally extended form of neurokinin A, was induced by capsaicin. No detectable release of tachykinins could be demonstrated after exposure to agents which are known to activate C-fibre afferents, such as histamine, bradykinin, serotonin, prostaglandins E1, E2 or acetylcholine. Protein extravasation in the ureter, as determined by the Evans Blue extravasation technique was used as a functional correlate to the tachykinin release. Protein extravasation was induced in vivo by local intraluminal injections of capsaicin at several hundred-fold lower concentrations than those required to induce a detectable release of tachykinins in vitro. The difference may, however, partly depend on the experimental conditions and the detection limit of the tachykinin assay used. The protein extravasation response to capsaicin was absent after systemic capsaicin pretreatment, which causes a marked depletion of tachykinins in the ureter. In conclusion, capsaicin evokes release of several tachykinins from both central and peripheral endings of primary afferent neurons. The peptides released from sensory nerves in the periphery may induce effects such as protein extravasation and smooth muscle contraction.
The patch clamp technique was used to analyze single channel currents in intact and excised patches of glial cell membranes grown in primary cultures from newborn rat brain. Glial cells were morphologically identified by immunohistochemical staining for glial fibrillary acidic protein. Outward currents due to single channels were observed in recordings from both intact and excised patches obtained from the cell body region. The channel responsible for these currents was preferentially permeable to K+ because the reversal potential for this current was correlated with changes in the potassium equilibrium potential, when experimentally altered. The single channel conductance was 25 pS when measured between -20 and +20 mV in solutions with physiological K+ concentrations (10 degrees C). Channel gating was dependent on both the internal Ca2+ concentration and the membrane potential. Either depolarization of the membrane patch, or the addition of increasing Ca2+ concentrations to the internal surface, increased the probability of channel opening. Tetraethylammonium reversibly blocked the channel whereas 4-aminopyridine had no effect. The characteristics exhibited by this channel indicate that a Ca2+-activated K+ channel is present in the membrane of astrocytes grown in culture. These results, combined with previous evidence for a voltage dependent Ca2+ channel, suggest a dynamic role for glial cells in controlling excitability in the central nervous system. Influx of Ca2+ upon depolarization would increase the membrane permeability to K+ and could increase the &quot;buffering&quot; capacity of glial cells for extracellular K+.
The distribution of galanin-like immunoreactivity in the rat hippocampal formation (hippocampus and dentate gyrus) was studied and its origins were determined using various lesioning techniques. Special reference was made to the known cholinergic and noradrenergic hippocampal inputs from the septum-basal forebrain complex and locus coeruleus, both of which have previously been shown to co-contain galanin-like immunoreactivity at the cell body level. Galanin-immunoreactive fibers in the hippocampal formation were of at least three different morphological types: (1) Fine, slender, faintly immunoreactive fibers were seen throughout the hippocampal formation. (2) A strongly fluorescent varicose fiber population was observed mainly in the strata radiatum and oriens of the ventral CA3 region. (3) A population of fine, faint puncta was seen within the granule and pyramidal cell layers throughout the hippocampal formation. Knife cut lesions of the dorsal afferent pathways resulted in almost complete disappearance of all fiber types, except for the ventral fine fibers. Lesions of the fimbria affected mainly the coarse and punctate fiber types, while lesions of the supracallosal striae depleted mainly the fine fibers. Cuts anterior and ventral to the hippocampal formation caused a decrease in ventral fine fibers. Furthermore, lesions of the dorsal bundle caused an almost complete disappearance of the fine fibers in all regions of the hippocampal formation. Neurotoxin lesions of the diagonal band/septal complex resulted in decreases in faintly immunoreactive puncta within the granule cell layer and adjacent fine fibers. It is concluded that most fine galanin-positive fibers originate in the lower brain stem, presumably the locus coeruleus, and appear to reach the hippocampal formation primarily through the supracallosal striae and the ventral route. The fimbria seems to contain a large proportion of the fibers giving rise to the coarse strongly fluorescent innervation, which appears to originate rostral to the pons. The galanin-immunoreactive fibers originating in cholinergic somata of the diagonal band, medial septal nuclei, previously shown to project to the hippocampal formation, seem to give rise to faintly labeled puncta within the granule and pyramidal cell layers, and to a small proportion of the fine fibers bordering the cell layers, as revealed by immunohistochemistry using our antibody.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The extent to which individual striatal neurons send collaterals to the globus pallidus, entopeduncular nucleus and substantia nigra in the cat brain was determined by double-retrograde tracing with rhodamine fluorescent latex microspheres in combination with either horseradish peroxidase or the fluorescent nuclear dye Diamidino Yellow. In each case, two of the three target nuclei were injected, each with a different tracer, until all three possible combinations of two had been obtained several times. In all cases in which the tracer encroaches upon a striatal target, there are cells labeled in the striatum of a size and shape that is consistent with the observation that they mainly belong to the category of medium striatal cells. Since the striatal projections to the globus pallidus, entopeduncular nucleus and substantia nigra are each topographically organized, the zones of cell-labeling within the striatum vary depending upon the portion of the target nucleus involved by the deposit. Thus, in many cases the fields of striatal cells containing one label overlap only slightly with those in which cells containing the other label occur. In other cases, however, there is extensive overlap of the striatal zones containing cells marked with either tracer. In all cases, very few double-labeled cells can be found, even where hundreds of cells labeled with either tracer are freshly intermingled. Doubly labeled cells occur somewhat more frequently in those cases where the tracers are placed in the entopeduncular nucleus and substantia nigra than in those with the other two combinations, suggesting that striatal axons branch more often to the entopeduncular nucleus and substantia nigra than to the globus pallidus and nigra or globus pallidus and entopeduncular nucleus. These findings confirm, that, in the cat as in the primate, the striatal axons to the substantia nigra arise from cells that are largely separate from the striatopallidal population, and further show that the axons to the globus pallidus and entopeduncular nucleus also emanate mainly from different cells.
The axoplasmic transport of dopamine and opiate receptors in the striatonigral and nigrostriatal pathways was investigated by placing coronal knife cuts through these pathways and examining autoradiographically the accumulation of receptors at the site of the cut. In otherwise normal animals build-up of both receptors was found both rostral and caudal to the cut after a survival time of 24 h. Build-up of both receptors was reduced caudal to the cut by prior 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of the substantia nigra-ventral tegmental area, and reduced rostral to the cut by prior kainic acid lesions of the striatum. In addition, it was found by both autoradiographic and membrane binding methods that kainic acid lesions of the striatum produced a larger reduction of striatal opiate compared with dopamine receptors. The results suggest that opiate and dopamine receptors are axonally transported in fibers of both the nigrostriatal and striatonigral pathways possibly to their respective presynaptic terminals. The differential sensitivity of opiate and dopamine receptors in the striatum to local kainic acid lesions suggests the preferential localization of postsynaptic opiate receptors on dendritic trunks and neuronal somata, whereas the major localization of postsynaptic dopamine receptors may be on striatal dendritic spines, which to some extent appear to survive the lesions.
Pre- and postsynaptic potential changes evoked by stimulation of the Schaffer collateral-commissural input to CA1 pyramidal neurons were optically recorded in guinea pig hippocampal slices after staining the preparation with a suitable voltage-sensitive fluorescent dye. Brief tetanic stimulation induced long-term potentiation of synaptic transmission as monitored both optically and electrically. The results demonstrate that non-invasive optical techniques can be used to study long-term changes in spatial neuronal interactions, possibly involved in learning and other higher functions of the nervous system.
Neural activity from the median nerve was recorded in 5 volunteers with a concentric needle electrode that has two recording surfaces in very close proximity at the tip. The aim of this study was to establish the probability of recording activity in the nerve from both surfaces simultaneously. We wanted to test one aspect of a recent critique of the microneurographic technique (Wall and McMahon, Pain, 21 (1985) 209-229), namely the suggestion that the recording electrode in these types of studies causes pressure block of almost all fibers in the impaled nerve fascicle. In 80% of our experiments it was possible to record neural activity at both surfaces simultaneously. These results indicate that the physiological state of the peripheral nerves during microneurographic explorations is not necessarily highly abnormal due to pressure block of nearly 100% of the nerve fibers close to the recording electrode tip. Our results thus speak against this aspect of the criticism of the microneurographic technique.
Converting a general medical-surgical unit to a 35-bed neuroscience unit can be both a stressful and a rewarding experience. During a six-month period, from February to September 1983, the authors were involved in transition to a stand-alone neuroscience unit. This article attempts to share their experience with professional nurses who are contemplating or involved in a similar unit change. The article focuses on: 1) a discussion of administrative/management responsibilities; 2) the development of neuroscience educational programs; and 3) program assessment and recommendations.
In an attempt to identify cholinergic neurons in the brain stem which project to the spinal cord, [3H]choline (100, 20, 10, 5 or 1 microCi) was injected into the upper cervical spinal cord in 55 rats. The animals were killed 20 h later and the brains processed for autoradiography of diffusible substances. At all doses of [3H]choline, cells were consistently, retrogradely labeled in the medical medullary reticular formation, the lateral vestibular nucleus, the dorsolateral pontine tegmentum and the red nucleus. The retrogradely labeled cells were found to be moderately to darkly stained for acetylcholinesterase. Injection of [3H]noradrenaline (50 microCi) into the upper cervical spinal cord resulted in retrograde labeling of cells in the locus coeruleus, subcoeruleus and the ventrolateral pontine tegmentum, that correspond in position to the neurons of the A6, A7 and A5 catecholamine cell groups, respectively. Injection of [3H]serotonin (20 microCi) into the upper cervical spinal cord was associated with retrograde labeling of cells in the raphe pallidus, obscurus and magnus nuclei that correspond in position to those of the B1, B2 and B3 serotonin cell groups, respectively. Injection of True Blue into the upper cervical spinal cord was followed by retrograde labeling of a large number of cells located in the areas where cells were retrogradely labeled by [3H]choline, [3H]noradrenaline and [3H]serotonin, and additionally, in the solitary tract nucleus, the lateral, parvicellular medullary reticular formation, the caudal and oral pontine reticular formation, the mesencephalic reticular formation and the superior colliculus. These results indicate that from the cervical spinal cord, [3H]choline selectively retrogradely labels a certain population of non-monaminergic, acetylcholinesterase-positive cells localized in the medial medullary, and secondarily the dorsolateral pontine, reticular formation, the lateral vestibular nucleus, and the red nucleus.
The uptake and release of catecholamines was investigated in the isolated perfused adrenal gland of the rat after preloading the preparation with [3H]norepinephrine, and the effects of various agents were examined on the stimulation-evoked secretion of catecholamines and total tritium. Large quantities of tritium were found in the adrenal medulla after either intravenous injection of [3H]norepinephrine to the rat, or perfusion of the isolated adrenal gland with Krebs-bicarbonate solution containing [3H]norepinephrine. The retention of the tritium was inhibited 90% by desipramine. Acute treatment with guanethidine and chronic treatment with 6-hydroxydopamine abolished the secretion of tritium without affecting the secretion of catecholamines evoked at 1 Hz. Nicotine, muscarine and acetylcholine enhanced the secretion of catecholamines but not tritium, whereas tyramine and ephedrine enhanced the secretion of tritium but not catecholamines. It is concluded that chromaffin cells do not possess the norepinephrine uptake mechanism and that the uptake of [3H]norepinephrine occurs mainly in sympathetic nerve terminals present in the adrenal gland and the surrounding blood vessels (adrenal and renal veins). The differential localization of [3H]norepinephrine and catecholamines allowed us to test the effects of a variety of pharmacological agents that alter neurotransmitter release by acting on receptors on the neuronal membrane, acting on sodium and potassium channels, or acting to alter the intracellular concentrations of adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate and protein kinase C. Transmural stimulation (1 Hz for a total of 300 pulses) markedly enhanced the release of catecholamines and tritium which was blocked by tetrodotoxin (sodium channel-blocker) and potentiated by tetraethylammonium and gallamine (potassium channel-blockers). Phentolamine, an alpha adrenergic blocking agent which acts on both alpha-1 and alpha-2 receptors, caused a 3- to 4-fold facilitation of the tritium secretion while inhibiting catecholamine secretion by 45%. [Met]enkephalin almost completely inhibited the evoked-secretion of tritium but had very little effect on the secretion of catecholamines. Forskolin inhibited the tritium secretion by 80% but produced more than a 2-fold facilitation of catecholamine secretion. Phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate caused facilitation of evoked secretion of both catecholamines and tritium. A combination of phorbol ester and forskolin had a synergistic effect on stimulation-evoked secretion of catecholamines, whereas phorbol ester partially reversed the inhibitory effects of forskolin on the tritium secretion.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Angiotensin II receptors have been localized by quantitative autoradiography in the rat central nervous system after labeling with [125I]angiotensin II. A highly discrete distribution of these receptors was found throughout the rat brain. The highest density was seen in regions of the medulla, hypothalamus and circumventricular organs where angiotensin II could potentially produce cardiovascular, dipsogenic and neuroendocrine responses. The distribution of angiotensin II receptors correlates relatively well with the previously reported distribution of angiotensin immunoreactive nerve terminals as well as areas determined by various physiological techniques to be sensitive to angiotensin II. Finally, the anatomical localization of angiotensin II receptor populations has revealed several areas of the brain where the effects of this peptide have not been investigated. Many of these nuclei are involved in the transmission and processing of somatic and visceral sensory information. These results suggest a broader role for the central renin-angiotensin system in modulating several types of sensory input.
Transverse slices (250-350 microns) of the rat hippocampus were used for estimation of quantitative correlations between the ultrastructure and function of giant spinous synapses localized in stratum lucidum of the field CA3. Spontaneous and evoked spike discharges were used to determine the following five functional states of the neurons: &quot;control&quot;; &quot;depletion&quot; was achieved by long-term continuous stimulation (30-50 Hz for 1 h and longer); &quot;recovery&quot; when the slices rested after &quot;depletion&quot; till the evoked response was recovered; long-term potentiation I was achieved by short-term tetanic stimulation (5-15 s, 50-70 Hz); long-term potentiation II was achieved by a similar tetanic stimulation as for long-term potentiation I after the &quot;recovery&quot;. For quantitative analysis of ultrastructural changes in the giant spinous synapses the following parameters were used: density of presynaptic vesicles determined as a ratio between the number of vesicles located within the giant bouton and the area of the latter (number of vesicles per 1 micron2); vesicle diameter distribution; area and length of the postsynaptic densities. A correlation of these parameters with the functional state of CA3 neurons was found. The area and length of postsynaptic densities are the most statistically significant parameters of the giant spinous synapses in different functional states. In contrast to other states, an increase in the length and the area of postsynaptic densities in long-term potentiation was found. A hypothesis on postsynaptic densities' role in long-term potentiation formation is suggested. The role of presynaptic and postsynaptic ultrastructural rearrangements is discussed as a possible mechanism determining the efficiency of synaptic transmission.
The Purkinje target cells for noradrenergic fibers originating in the locus coeruleus are considered to be of importance in the regulation of noradrenergic input to the cerebellum. The availability of a mouse mutant, Purkinje cell degeneration provides a non-surgical means for studying cellular regulation of innervation. Using a glyoxylic acid histofluorescent method for visualizing noradrenergic fibers, the observations have been made that the density of green histofluorescent neurites is markedly increased in both the granule and molecular layers of the cerebellum of Purkinje cell degeneration mice, following spontaneous degeneration of the Purkinje cells. However, because of tissue shrinkage, tissue concentration of norepinephrine also increases, but total tissue content of norepinephrine is unchanged in whole cerebellum and outer cerebellar cortex. These findings indicate that the relative number of noradrenergic afferents to the molecular layer of the cerebellum is not reduced following spontaneous degeneration of Purkinje cells. Therefore, Purkinje target cells do not appear to be essential for maintenance of afferent inputs in mature cerebellum.
The cerebellar cortex of normal and Purkinje cell degeneration mutant mice was examined by electron microscopy after fixation with potassium permanganate for the demonstration of small granular vesicles in monoaminergic nerve terminals. In control mice, monoaminergic terminals were found mainly in apposition to Purkinje cell dendrites. After the degeneration of Purkinje cells, which constitute the major target for monoaminergic fibres in the cerebellum, monoaminergic terminals persisted in the cerebellar cortex of Purkinje cell degeneration mutant mice. They were ensheathed by astroglial processes in most of the instances. They were also apposed to boutons that contained agranular vesicles, and to stellate cells in the molecular layer. Clear synaptic specializations in the form of thickening of the synaptic membranes were not observed in either control or mutant mice. It is hypothesized that the survival of monoaminergic axons following loss of their target cells may be attributed to the lack of intimate adhesion to their target elements, to a possible functional interaction with the glia, or to the integrity of the extracerebellar terminal fields of the monoamine axon collaterals.
Purkinje cell degeneration mutant mice were examined during the course of Purkinje cell death (26 and 35 days old) and at 3, 5, 9 and 12 months of age. Glyoxylic acid fluorescence histochemistry for catecholamines was used to investigate possible alterations or reorganization of the noradrenergic fibers from the coeruleo-cerebellar system in response to the degeneration of two major cell types in the cerebellar cortex, of which one, the Purkinje cell, is reported to be the major target neuron. In control mice, noradrenergic fibers traveled in linear and tortuous profiles through the granule cell layer, formed pericellular arrays alongside Purkinje cell somata, and branched profusely into both radially oriented and longitudinally oriented chains. The density of noradrenergic varicosities diminished in the molecular layer, there was with age. In the mutants, concomitant with the progressive shrinkage of the molecular layer, there was a progressive increase in the density of noradrenergic varicosities. This was most conspicuous at 9 and 12 months of age, at which time the molecular layer has been depleted not only of Purkinje cell dendrites, but also of parallel fibers. Noradrenergic fibers in these zones formed dense parallel bundles of varicose profiles whose density reached 621.3 +/- 122.8% (mean +/- SD, n = 4) at 9-12 months of age, compared with age-matched controls. Neurochemical measurement of norepinephrine content in whole cerebellum of the Purkinje cell degeneration mutants revealed no change compared with age-matched controls. We conclude that noradrenergic innervation persists in the cerebellar cortex despite the death of Purkinje cells and most of the granule cells. Although we found an increased density of varicosities in the molecular layer of mutant mice, progressing with age, we believe that this can be explained on the basis of the resultant geometry of the altered cerebellar cortex. It appears that the health of the environment surrounding the noradrenergic fibers in cerebellar cortex has little influence on their anatomical integrity.
This study deals with the distribution of corticopontine neurons in four of the lateral suprasylvian visual areas, the anteromedial, anterolateral, posteromedial and posterolateral areas. Following large injections of horseradish peroxidase-wheat germ agglutinin in the pontine nuclei, labelled cells were quantitatively mapped. The borders of the four areas were determined cyto- and myeloarchitectonically or from standard retinotopic maps presented in frontal sections (Tusa et al., 1981). Flat maps were constructed of each area showing the distribution of retrogradely labelled neurons. Maps of the retinotopic organization in the lateral suprasylvian visual areas (Palmer et al., 1978; Tusa et al., 1981) were transferred to the flat maps. Thus, the density and number of labelled cells within each area and within smaller zones representing different visual field blocks could be determined. The average cell density (average number of labelled cells per mm2 of flattened cortex) is highest in the anteromedial area. The average density in this area is higher than in areas 17, 18 and 19. The total number of labelled cells is highest in the posteromedial area. The lateral syprasylvian visual areas together have a stronger pontine projection in terms of actual number of cells than each of areas 17, 18 and 19. [Data on areas 17, 18 and 19 from Bjaalie and Brodal (1983) and Bjaalie (1985)]. The four areas investigated have different internal distribution of corticopontine cells. The posteromedial and posterolateral areas have lower densities of labelled cells in the representations of the retinal central area than in the representations of the visual periphery. However, due to the enlarged cortical representations of central vision, the actual number of corticopontine cells per visual field block is higher in the cortex representing the central area; i.e. the central visual field region is moderately over-represented in the corticopontine projection from these areas. In the anteromedial and anterolateral areas, unlike in all other areas so far investigated, the cortical representations of the central visual field contain higher densities of corticopontine cells than the representations of the lower visual periphery. However, since the central area is only very weakly over-represented compared to the lower visual periphery in terms of cortical volume in these areas, the over-representation in the corticopontine projection of central vision compared to the lower visual periphery is fairly moderate.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Immunohistochemical procedures were applied to wholemounts of the central nervous system and posterior intestine of the mollusc, Aplysia californica, to facilitate localization of cells that were immunoreactive to several antisera recognizing various epitopes of the peptides cholecystokinin and gastrin. Only antisera that recognized the carboxyl terminal sequence common to cholecystokinin and gastrin reacted with the Aplysia tissues tested. Intracellular electrophysiological studies of identified postsynaptic targets of immunoreactive neurons in the cerebral ganglia indicated that mammalian forms of gastrin 1-17, several cholecystokinin fragments, and the related peptide, amphibian caerulein, did not mimick the synaptic response mediated by the immunoreactive presynaptic neurons. Combinations of electrophysiological, immunohistochemical, and biochemical studies of several neurons in the buccal ganglia indicated that neurons B7 and B13 were immunoreactive to antisera against cholecystokinin and gastrin and that neuron B13 also contained a concentration of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine as high as in the identified cholinergic buccal neurons, B4 and B5. Several differences in the immunoreactivity of the various antisera were observed. Only one of the antisera was effective in staining neurons in the abdominal ganglia and another antiserum stained subsets of neurons that were immunoreactive to most of the other antisera recognizing the carboxyl terminus common to cholecystokinin and gastrin. The giant serotoninergic metacerebral neurons in Aplysia were not immunoreactive to the cholecystokinin/gastrin antisera even though it has been reported that the homologous neurons in a pulmonate mollusc contain cholecystokinin-like immunoreactivity. These studies demonstrated that there are many neurons with cholecystokinin/gastrin-like immunoreactivity in the Aplysia central and peripheral nervous system and suggested that the peptide may differ from vertebrate forms of cholecystokinin and gastrin. The identification of immunoreactive neurons with known postsynaptic target neurons and buccal neurons with acetylcholine co-localized with a cholecystokinin/gastrin-like peptide will facilitate elucidation of the functions of peptides in the nervous system since the Aplysia preparation is well known to be amenable to multidisciplinary studies.
Fourteen macaque monkeys were injected intravenously with N-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine. All developed the cardinal signs of parkinsonism (akinesia, rigidity, etc.) in varying degrees; some required repeated series of injections of the drug, while others developed the syndrome readily after the first series. Most of the subjects that were kept for longer than 4 weeks after the first dose of the drug showed complete or partial recovery after that time. Measurement, in some of the subjects, of the neostriatal levels of dopamine and dihydroxyphenylacetic acid showed the expected depletion of these substances at the peak of the behavioral action of the drug, but no recovery when the animals had returned to, or near, pre-drug behavioral status. No firm conclusion can be reached at this time as to the reasons for the behavioral recovery or the variability of the effects of the drug across subjects.
Endopeptidase-24.11, a plasma membrane ectoenzyme with the ability to hydrolyse a variety of neuropeptides, has been localized in the pig nervous system by an immunoperoxidase technique. The endopeptidase was mapped in cryostat sections of the fore and mid-brain to the following structures: caudate-putamen, globus pallidus, olfactory tubercle, nucleus interpeduncularis and substantia nigra. Endopeptidase-24.11-like immunoreactivity was also found in the pia mater, choroid plexus and ependymal lining of the central canal. In the spinal cord, weak staining was observed in the dorsal horn, but strong staining was found in the dorsal root ganglia and nerve roots. Within the central nervous system, endopeptidase immunoreactivity was confined to gray matter and within the positive areas of the striatum densely staining areas, corresponding to striosomes, were discernible. These well-defined structures were exploited in serial sections to examine the alignment of the enzyme-rich patches of neuropil with correspondingly strong staining for other antigens. A consistent match was observed with a monoclonal antibody to neurofilament protein, but there was a poor correlation with a polyclonal antibody to glial fibrillary acidic protein. Substance P-like and [Leu]enkephalin-like immunoreactivity were also studied in sections adjacent to those stained for the endopeptidase. Good matching between enzyme-rich and peptide-rich areas was observed, but some enkephalin-rich areas did not align with enzyme staining and indeed endopeptidase-rich areas were not necessarily matched with areas rich in either peptide. These findings suggest a neuronal rather than an astrocytic location for endopeptidase-24.11 in the CNS and lend support to the view that it plays a central role in neuropeptide metabolism at membrane surfaces. In the peripheral nervous system, the endopeptidase was located in Schwann cell membranes surrounding dorsal root ganglion cells and nerve fibres, while in the pituitary the main concentration was in the adenohypophysis, where only a proportion of the endocrine cells were found to be immunoreactive.
Aldehyde fixatives containing high concentrations of glutaraldehyde, usually used for conventional electron microscope studies, were successfully used for immunocytochemistry of transmitter synthesizing enzymes, glutamate decarboxylase and tyrosine hydroxylase, in the rat central nervous system. Although a high concentration of glutaraldehyde could cause tremendous non-specific staining, this was almost completely absent after treating sections with 1% sodium borohydride for 30 min. Furthermore, it was shown that a high concentration of glutaraldehyde might cause no appreciable reduction of the antigenicities of glutamate decarboxylase and tyrosine hydroxylase when compared with fixatives containing a low concentration of glutaraldehyde. It is suggested that fixatives containing high concentrations of glutaraldehyde are very useful, not only for conventional electron microscope studies, but also for light and electron microscope immunocytochemistry of some antigens, including glutamate decarboxylase and tyrosine hydroxylase.
Using spinal cord and dorsal root ganglion cell cultures, we have studied the immuno-histochemical distribution of several peptide products of the dynorphin gene. With antibody directed toward the midregion of dynorphin A, peptide-immunoreactivity was found exclusively in the cell bodies of spinal cord neurons. Antibody directed toward the amino- or carboxy-terminus of dynorphin A revealed peptide-immunoreactivity in the neurites, as well as perikarya. Spinal cord neurons also expressed dynorphin B- and alpha-neo-endorphin-immunoreactivities in both cell bodies and neurites. Dorsal root ganglion neurons cultured from embryonic tissue expressed dynorphin A-(1-13)-, dynorphin A-(9-17)- and dynorphin B-immunoreactivities in their perikarya. Sensory neurons obtained from dissociated adult ganglia similarly expressed dynorphin-immunoreactivity immediately upon inoculation into culture. Embryonic and adult murine sensory ganglia from the sacral region more frequently expressed dynorphin than did cells obtained from other spinal levels. Expression of dynorphin-immunoreactivity by sensory neurons was not influenced by elevated levels of Nerve Growth Factor or spinal cord conditioned medium. These data indicate that intrinsic spinal cord neurons may modulate sensory and spinal function in rather subtle ways via the expression of several different opioid peptide products of the dynorphin gene, in addition to the opioid peptides produced by the proenkephalin A gene. Beyond this, the observation of dynorphin-related peptides in dorsal root ganglion neurons suggests that these opioid peptides may have a specialized role in primary afferent neurotransmission.
The purpose of this study is to see whether variations in the catechol oxidation peak in the locus coeruleus would be closely related with variations in single cell firing, and would be independent of the mechanism triggering the variation of neuronal activity. Single unit and electrochemical (differential pulse voltammetry) recordings were performed, respectively on the left and right locus coeruleus of anaesthetized rats. The variations in single unit activity were induced using well known stimulatory mechanisms (yohimbine, hypovolemia, indirect activation using a 5-hydroxytryptamine central agonist RU 24969, RU 24722 known to activate noradrenergic metabolism), or inhibitory (clonidine, morphine) models. This was done in addition to successive activation or inhibition (reversal of oxotremorine with scopolamine, antagonism of clonidine by piperoxane). In all the experimental conditions, variations in the catechol oxidation current followed variations in single cell activity. Furthermore, the catechol oxidation current variations correlated significantly to changes in the firing rate. Such a close correlation between a catechol oxidation peak, and the electrical activity of the locus coeruleus cell bodies supports the use of catechol oxidation current variations as a good indirect index of functional activity in noradrenergic locus coeruleus perikarya. This suggests a close relationship between dopamine metabolism and electrical activity in locus coeruleus cell bodies.
We showed that beta-adrenergic receptor antagonists blocked the shift in ocular dominance following brief monocular deprivation in young kittens. Localized microperfusion of propranolol into the kitten visual cortex reduced the expected shift in the ocular dominance approximately 2 mm away from the center of perfusion. The blocking effect, however, did not reach an area approximately 5 mm from the perfusion center, suggesting that beta blockers work in a concentration-dependent fashion in the present paradigm. We further studied the concentration-effect relationship by widely changing the concentration of beta blockers (propranolol and sotalol) stored in an osmotic minipump. The proportion of binocular cells increased from 0.13 to 0.67 when the concentration of propranolol was increased from 10(-6)M to 10(-2)M, giving the half-maximum effect (binocularity, 0.40) at about 10(-4)M propranolol. However, the maximum binocularity obtained with the sotalol perfusion under the comparable condition was apparently much lower (0.45) than that with propranolol. Accordingly, the half-maximum binocularity (0.30) was obtained at about 10(-5)M sotalol. We also noted the presence of a linear, inverse relation between the logarithmic concentration of the beta blockers and the extent of the shift in ocular dominance as measured by the proportion of monocular cells which responded exclusively to stimulation of the nondeprived eye. The latter decreased from 0.75 to 0.25, when the former was increased from 10(-6)M to 10(-2)M (in an osmotic minipump). The two beta blockers behaved similarly in this correlation. The intracortical spread of locally perfused [3H]propranolol was studied at the end of the cortical perfusion which lasted for a week. The radioactivity was highest at the perfusion center and rapidly declined with increasing distance, leveling off approximately 3 mm from the perfusion center. The average &quot;dilution factor&quot; of locally perfused [3H]propranolol was calculated as about 1/170 of the original solution in an area of physiological recordings (approximately 2 mm from the perfusion center). Applying the &quot;dilution factor&quot; of 1/170, we estimated the approximate concentration of beta blockers needed at the recording sites to obtain the half-maximum effect; it was about 5.8 X 10(-8)M for sotalol. Taken together, the present results were interpreted as suggesting that there is a positive correlation between the number of activated beta-adrenergic receptors within the visual cortex and the extent of changes in ocular dominance following monocular deprivation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The distribution of substance P-like and [Leu]- and [Met]enkephalin-immunoreactive cell bodies, fibers and terminal structures in the brain stem and spinal cord of a lizard, Varanus exanthematicus, was studied with the indirect immunofluorescence technique, using antibodies to these peptides. Substance P-like immunoreactive cell bodies were found in the hypothalamus, in a periventricular cell group in the rostral mesencephalon, in the interpeduncular nucleus, in and ventral to the descending nucleus of the trigeminal nerve, in and directly ventral to the nucleus of the solitary tract, scattered in the brain stem reticular formation and in the trigeminal and spinal ganglia. A rather widespread distribution of substance P-like immunoreactivity was found in the brain stem and spinal cord, mainly concentrated in striatotegmental projections related to visceral and/or taste information (nucleus of the solitary tract, parabrachial region), in the descending nucleus of the trigeminal nerve and in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord (areas I and II). In the spinal cord also around the central canal (area X and adjacent parts of area V-VI) a distinct substance P innervation was found. The ventral horn receives only a very sparse substance P innervation. The distribution of [Leu]- and [Met]enkephalin in the brain stem and spinal cord of Varanus exanthematicus is less impressive than that of substance P. Enkephalinergic cell bodies were found particularly in the caudal hypothalamus. Small populations of enkephalinergic cell bodies were found in the vestibular nuclear complex, in the nucleus of the solitary tract, in and around the descending nucleus of the trigeminal nerve and throughout the rhombencephalic reticular formation. Enkephalins are likely to be present in efferent projections of the striatum, in projections related to taste and/or visceral information (nucleus of the solitary tract, parabrachial region) and in descending pathways to the spinal cord. Enkephalinergic fibers are present in the lateral funiculus and enkephalin-immunoreactive cell bodies are found in the reticular formation, particularly the inferior reticular nucleus which is known to project to the spinal cord. In the spinal cord enkephalinergic terminal structures were found especially in the superficial layer of the dorsal horn (areas I and II) and around the central canal. The ventral horn including the motoneuron area receives only a relatively sparse enkephalinergic innervation.
[125I]Bolton and Hunter eledoisin binds to a single class of non-interacting sites in rat cerebral cortex tissue sections with an apparent Kd of 9.9 nM and a Bmax of 244 fmol/mg protein. When concentrations of up to 23 nM [125I]Bolton and Hunter eledoisin were used, [125I]Bolton and Hunter eledoisin binding was specific, saturable and reversible. Kassinin, eledoisin and neurokinin B were more potent than substance P and neurokinin A in inhibiting the specific binding of [125I]Bolton and Hunter eledoisin to cerebral cortex tissue sections. These kinetic and pharmacological characteristics are consistent with results obtained from binding studies on cortical synaptosomes. When the localization of [125I]Bolton and Hunter substance P and [125I]Bolton and Hunter eledoisin binding sites were compared, differences in many areas of the brain were noted. Large differences were seen in the paraventricular and supraoptic hypothalamic nuclei, and in layers IV and V of the cerebral cortex, which were densely labeled by [125I]Bolton and Hunter eledoisin, but not by [125I]Bolton and Hunter substance P. In contrast, nuclei of the septum (diagonal band of Broca, septohippocampal nucleus, dorsal part of the lateral septal nucleus), the rostrodorsal part of the hippocampus and other discrete nuclei [endopyriform nucleus, anterior cortical amygdaloid nucleus, the vermis columns (9-10), the dorsal tegmental nucleus, the hypoglossal and ambiguus nucleus] had high levels of [125I]Bolton and Hunter substance P binding but were only labeled weakly by [125I]Bolton and Hunter eledoisin. Thus, the two ligands seem to label different sites, since these binding sites have different biochemical and pharmacological properties, and are localized in different anatomical structures.
An easily constructed cannula system is described for applying experimental substances to the brain of freely moving mice. Stainless steel tubing surrounded by a nylon insulator cap glued to the skull provides an economical and durable system which requires little preparation.
This paper briefly describes a simple method for preparing a polyethylene &quot;Y&quot; catheter in which the stem of the &quot;Y&quot; is inserted into the intrathecal space, one arm of the &quot;Y&quot; is externalized for intrathecal injection and the other arm of the &quot;Y&quot; connected to an osmotic infusion pump. This simple preparation permits the chronic infusion of drug into the spinal space and without further surgical preparation, permits bolus injection of drugs through the same catheter.
'Suicide transport' is a term coined to describe the use of retrogradely axonally transported toxin to produce anatomically selective neural lesions. As a first step in developing neuron type-selective, systemically non-toxic suicide transport agents, a prototype hybrid toxin consisting of ricin A-chain (RTA) disulfide coupled to wheat germ agglutinin (WGA) was synthesized by first derivatizing WGA by reaction with N-succinimidyl-3-(2-pyridyldithio)-propionate (SPDP) in the presence of N-acetylglucosamine and then formation of WGA-SS-RTA by mixing the derivatized WGA with reduced RTA. The ability of this conjugate to inhibit protein synthesis was tested on two cell lines in vitro; the ID50 was 0.2 nM using the K562 hematopoietic stem cell line and 0.02 nM for the 2a neuroblastoma cell line. Suicide transport activity was assessed by microinjection of hybrid into the cervical vagus nerve of rats. Intact WGA-SS-RTA, but not hybrid that was pretreated with dithiothreitol to uncouple RTA from the WGA carrier, reliably killed vagal motor neurons. Both intact and reduced hybrid killed vagal sensory neurons. Indirect peroxidase immunohistochemistry demonstrated transport of RTA to vagal sensory neurons and WGA to both vagal sensory and motor neurons. These results are the first evidence that a hybrid toxin can be active as a suicide transport agent.
Plant lectins were used to examine the disposition of glycosylated molecules in vibratome sections through the barrel subfield of mouse somatosensory cortex at selected times during postnatal development. The peroxidase conjugates of peanut agglutinin (PNA, specific for N-acetylgalactosamine), concanavalin A (specific for mannose), and wheat germ agglutinin (specific for N-acetylglucosamine and N-acetylneuraminic acid) were used to study lectin binding in aldehyde-fixed tissue sections of cortex. Following peroxidase cytochemistry and light microscopy, it was found that all three lectins bound in the region of the barrel subfield as early as postnatal day 3 (day of birth = postnatal day 1). The lectins bound to the prospective sides and/or septae of individual barrels in preference to the prospective hollows. This lectin demarcation of the barrel field occurred prior to the detection of this region with cresyl violet staining and was still demonstrable on postnatal day 6, when the individual barrels became discernible with cresyl violet. This suggests that the lectin binding material is present before the barrel field becomes a fully formed and organized region. A decrease in lectin affinity for binding sites in these tissue sections occurs during postnatal development (Cooper and Steindler: Soc. Neurosci. (Abstr.) 10: 43a, '84) and this study demonstrates that lectins do not delineate the barrel field of more mature animals (2-3 months old), whereas barrels can be detected with cresyl violet at this time. A preliminary electron microscope analysis of the postnatal day 6 somatosensory cortex demonstrates that the lectin PNA binds to elements of the forming neuropil and also to Golgi apparatus intermediate saccules in neuronal cells. The prospective barrel field can be detected with lectins during a critical period in development in which alterations can occur in the barrel field in response to peripheral deprivation (Jeanmonod et al: Neuroscience 6:1503-35, '81) and therefore we suggest that the glycans visualized with lectin-peroxidase conjugates denote possible candidates for molecules involved in shaping barrel structure.
An extensive amount of research in clinical psychiatry, psychopharmacology, and the neurosciences has led to effective pharmacological treatments for affective disorders. These impressive developments have suffered from several limitations. In the case of antidepressant drugs, the delayed onset of antidepressant effect, troublesome side effects, possible lethality after an overdose, and the 20 to 30 percent of depressed patients not responsive to them have made these drugs less than a panacea. In addition to the limitations of the drugs themselves, there is frequently inattention to pharmacotherapeutic principles by clinicians. There is definitely a need for further research in the field, especially regarding major unresolved issues such as the proper selection of patients for whom antidepressants are indicated, clinical and biological predictors of treatment response, and the development of new antidepressants with superior efficacy and safety as well as an earlier onset of action. Meanwhile, an empathic psychotherapeutic alliance coupled with careful clinical and pharmacological monitoring are the essential prerequisites for successful antidepressant treatment.


Monoclonal antibodies were generated using 5 d neonatal rat dentate gyrus as immunogen. One antibody of this panel, G6E3, recognized a cell-surface protein with an Mr = 43,000 that was found only in the nervous system. The antigen was expressed as early as embryonic day 13 in the rat in both the brain and spinal cord. In the adult rat the antigen was demonstrated immunohistochemically to be restricted to dentate gyrus granule, hippocampal pyramidal, and cerebellar Purkinje neurons. These results suggested that the antigen recognized by G6E3 may be developmentally regulated. Moreover, G6E3 did not appear to bind to mitotic cells, implying that the antigen was expressed after the terminal mitosis. The antibody also bound to hippocampal and cerebellar cells from mouse brain, including the reeler mutant, and rat hippocampal neurons in vitro. Double-labeling experiments performed on embryonic rat hippocampal cultures with G6E3 and antibodies to neuron-specific enolase (NSE) or anti-glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) revealed that only NSE-positive cells were immunoreactive for G6E3 and, while G6E3-positive cells were decorated with GAD-positive boutons, their cell bodies did not contain GAD. With the use of a fluorescence-activated cell sorter it was possible to analyze the immune reaction on embryonic and postnatal hippocampal cells and to sort G6E3-positive neurons for maintenance in vitro.
The involvement of dopaminergic (DA) and serotonergic (5-HT) systems in circling was assessed by determining the neurochemical correlates of circling induced and maintained by two different schedules of water reinforcement. The conditioned circling paradigm was employed in an attempt to replicate reports that levels of DA and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) were increased in the striatum and nucleus accumbens septi (NAS) contralateral to the direction of circling. Rats trained to circle using a continuous schedule of reinforcement did not exhibit any changes in concentrations of DA, DOPAC, or homovanillic acid (HVA). Bilateral increases in 5-HT concentrations were observed in the striatum. Use of an intermittent schedule of reinforcement (FR-2) produced higher rates of circling. In rats maintained on the FR-2 schedule, no changes in DA or its metabolites were observed in the striatum. The ratio of HVA to DA was, however, increased bilaterally, suggesting a bilateral augmentation of DA utilization. Concentrations of DA were lower in the NAS contralateral to direction of turning. While NAS levels of HVA were elevated bilaterally when compared to non-circling controls, HVA was lower in the NAS contralateral to the direction of circling. DA utilization, as estimated by HVA: DA ratios, was increased bilaterally in the NAS. None of the measures of DA activity within the olfactory tubercle (OT) were influenced by circling. Turnover of 5-HT, as estimated by the ratio of 5-HT to 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA), was increased bilaterally in the striatum, NAS, and OT.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
With the use of a holder mounted on the skull of rats, a cannula can be implanted so that one end rests on the atlanto-occipital membrane overlying the cisterna magna. Needles introduced through the cannula allow repeated access to the cisterna magna in the freely moving animal. This system is stable for periods of up to 4 weeks and is suited for repeated sampling of the cerebrospinal fluid.
Anatomically selective destruction of sensory and motor neurons based upon which nerve contains the corresponding axons can be accomplished by intraneural pressure microinjection of the toxic lectin, ricin. Ricin is taken up by axons at the injection site and axonally transported to perikarya resulting in destruction of the neurons. In the present report, we describe a reliable procedure for making such lesions using pressure microinjection of ricin into nerve trunks. Consistent, complete lesions restricted to the appropriate sensory and motor neurons are documented after injection of the vagus, hypoglossal, phrenic and sciatic nerves and the superior cervical ganglion. Complete vagal ablations could be achieved with 100 ng or less of ricin; whereas, 1-3 micrograms was required to obtain similar results with hypoglossal and sciatic nerves. Although most neurons are dead within 24 h after the injection, survival times of 10-14 days may be necessary for complete disappearance of poisoned neurons. This technique can be valuable in making highly selective lesions for anatomical, neurochemical and neurophysiological experiments.
A reconstruction program is described for personal computers, permitting threedimensional image reconstructions from serial sections. This program also makes it possible to calculate the volume of structures from their twodimensional images in histological sections. In this paper we show a program written in BASIC and debugged on a Sharp MZ-700 personal computer, equipped with the Sharp MZ-1P01 plotter. The program is explained in detail and is easily adapted to run on any personal computer.

The distribution of neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity in the rat brain and spinal cord was investigated by means of the peroxidase-antiperoxidase procedure of Sternberger using a rabbit anti-neuropeptide Y serum. A widespread distribution of immunostained cells and fibres was detected with moderate to large numbers of cells in the following regions: olfactory bulb, anterior olfactory nucleus, olfactory tubercle, striatum, nucleus accumbens, all parts of the neocortex and the corpus callosum, septum including the anterior hippocampal rudiment, ventral pallidum, horizontal limb of the diagonal band, amygdaloid complex. Ammon's horn, dentate gyrus, subiculum, pre- and parasubiculum, lateral thalamic nucleus (intergeniculate leaflet), bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, medial preoptic area, lateral hypothalamus, mediobasal hypothalamus, supramammillary nucleus, pericentral and external nuclei of the inferior colliculus, interpeduncular nucleus, periaqueductal central gray, locus coeruleus, dorsal tegmental nucleus of Gudden, lateral superior olive, lateral reticular nucleus, medial longitudinal fasciculus, prepositus hypoglossal nucleus, nucleus of the solitary tract and spinal nucleus of the trigeminal nerve. In the spinal cord cells were found in the substantia gelatinosa at all levels, the dorsolateral funiculus and dorsal gray commissure in lumbosacral cord. The pattern of staining was found to be similar to that observed with antisera to avian and bovine pancreatic polypeptide, but to differ in some respects from that observed with antisera to molluscan cardioexcitatory peptide. The presence of neuropeptide Y immunoreactive fibres in tracts such as the corpus callosum, anterior commissure, lateral olfactory tract, fimbria, medial corticohypothalamic tract, medial forebrain bundle, stria terminalis, dorsal periventricular bundle and other periventricular areas, indicated that in addition to the localisation of neuropeptide Y-like peptide(s) in interneurons in the forebrain, neuropeptide Y may be found in long neuronal pathways throughout the brain.
The distribution of neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity in the rat brain was investigated by means of immunochemical techniques. In the first part of the study (present paper) neuropeptide Y radioimmunoassays were characterised and the chromatographic properties and regional distribution of neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity was investigated. The second part of the study (accompanying paper) involved immunohistochemical techniques. Extracts from several regions of rat brain were found to contain immunoreactivity that behaved like synthetic porcine neuropeptide Y in three test systems: dilution in the radioimmunoassay (test of antigenic properties), gel chromatography (molecular weight), reverse phase high performance liquid chromatography (solubility properties). Experiments were conducted to optimise the extraction of neuropeptide Y. Boiling 0.1 M sodium phosphate buffer, pH 7.4, extracted at least two times as much immunoreactivity from whole brain pieces as other buffers. The nature of the extracted immunoreactivity was confirmed using chromatography. Experiments (using added iodinated or unlabelled neuropeptide Y standards) demonstrated that the differences between extraction media could not be explained by differential recovery of the peptide, although differences in recovery between media existed. Tissue sample weight was found to influence neuropeptide Y recovery. Evidence that rat neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity was not identical to the porcine peptide was obtained from experiments which demonstrated an early eluting peak of immunoreactivity in addition to the main peak on high performance liquid chromatograms. This material could be generated by oxidation of extracted rat neuropeptide Y, suggesting the presence in the rat peptide of a methionine residue. Some evidence of high molecular weight neuropeptide Y precursors was obtained from chromatography of hypothalamus extracts. Bovine pancreatic polypeptide-like material represented less than 1% of the amounts of neuropeptide Y in the brain. The distribution of neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity was non-uniform in the rat brain with highest concentrations observed in the hypothalamus, amygdaloid complex and periaqueductal central gray matter. Other regions of forebrain contained moderate to high concentrations including olfactory tubercle, striatum, nucleus accumbens, neocortex and hippocampus. Negligible amounts were detected in the cerebellum. In spinal cord immunoreactivity was concentrated in the dorsal horn, although measurable amounts were found in the ventral horn. The neurointermediate but not anterior lobe of the pituitary contained neuropeptide Y.
Distribution of primary afferent fibers was studied in intact and neonatally capsaicin treated rats by the application of horseradish peroxidase to the central branch of the transected lumbar dorsal roots. Coarse primary afferent fibers entered the spinal cord through the larger medial portion of the rootlet and arborized in the deeper part of the dorsal horn (laminae III and IV). Fine fibers reached the spinal cord through the smaller lateral portion of the rootlet and arborized in the superficial portion of the dorsal horn (lamina I and outer portion of lamina II). The technique used was inadequate to stain fine, unmyelinated primary afferent fibers terminating in the larger inner portion of lamina II. After neonatal capsaicin treatment (50 mg/kg) the flame-shaped arborizations of thick primary afferent fibers terminating in intact rat in laminae III and IV spread dorsally and occupied the inner portion of lamina II in the larger lateral sector of the dorsal horn. Medially the dense arborization of a different type of thick primary afferent fibers sprouted up to the white-gray border. The border between the lateral and medial sector was sharp and only slightly varied in localization from experiment to experiment. The sprouting fibers established complicated synaptic contacts with dendrites and axon terminals. The rearrangement of primary afferent fibers after neonatal capsaicin treatment confirmed earlier results and revealed a mediolateral difference in the fiber organization of the dorsal horn indicating differences in the projection from hairy vs non-hairy skin areas.
Noradrenaline, acetylcholinesterase, and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) were visualized in uterine nerves of cats by histochemical techniques. Alterations were followed in different regions of the organs at various stages of pregnancy and compared with the situation in non-pregnant controls. Positively stained nerve fibres, the adrenergic type being particularly well developed, were found along the muscle bundles and around blood vessels in the smooth muscle layers, as well as in the mucosa, of both uterine horns and cervix. The nerve supply was especially prominent in the upper part of the cervix. The distribution of VIP-immunoreactive and acetylcholinesterase-positive nerve fibres resembled each other, but they were less numerous than the adrenergic fibres. In the course of pregnancy there was a marked reduction in the number of all positively reacting nerves, so that almost no fibres were visible in the uterine horns near term. A small number of positive nerve fibres was found to remain, however, in the wall of the sterile (empty) horn during unilateral pregnancy. The reduction was less prominent in the cervix, particularly its lower part. Distinct changes were encountered already during early and mid pregnancy in those parts of the uterine wall distended by the growing conceptus, where almost no fibres were seen. The nerve supply was more intact in the non-distended portions located between the fetuses, and especially in the empty horn of unilateral pregnancy. No overt reduction in the number of positively stained nerve fibres was found in the cervix at these pregnancy stages. The results show that marked alterations take place in the uterine autonomic innervation during such an entirely physiological event as pregnancy. There is reason to assume that the histochemical observations reflect both structural and functional alterations in the innervation related both to the type of nerves involved and to the localization of the conceptus.
By means of electrostimulation of the acoustic nerve profoundly deaf patients can, in the best cases, reach almost complete speech understanding without lip reading. In this paper the information content of the signals supplied to patients is examined by a study of action potential generation by means of the Hodgkin-Huxley and the Frankenhaeuser-Huxley equations solved by means of a digitally controlled analogue computer. The response to sinusoidal signals and to signals with the wave shape of certain vowels is investigated and compared with results from animal experiments and observation on patients.
The regional distribution of 5-hydroxytryptamine-1 receptors in the primate brain was studied by semi-quantitative autoradiographic analysis of tritiated ligand binding. Areas showing the highest density of 5-hydroxytryptamine-1 receptors (greater than 200 fmol [3H]5-hydroxytryptamine bound per mg tissue), included the cerebral cortex (laminae I-II), claustrum, posterior cell group of the basal nucleus of Meynert, the infracommissural part of the globus pallidus, cortical amygdaloid nucleus, hippocampal formation (CA1-subiculum region, the anterior CA2, CA3 and CA4 regions and the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus), thalamic nuclei (parafascicular, parataenial, paraventricular and superior central lateral nuclei), substantia nigra pars reticulata, dorsal raphe nucleus and choroid plexus. The distribution of 5-hydroxytryptamine-1 receptors is compared to the distribution of both 5-hydroxytryptamine receptors and terminal fields of serotonergic projections as previously described in subprimates.
Ablation of the entorhinal/occipital cortex in young adult rats caused a several-fold increase in the neurite-promoting activity in extracts of the tissue surrounding the wound and in areas that had been deafferented by the lesion. The time course of induction closely paralleled reactive axon sprouting in the deafferented hippocampus, with maximal levels of neurite-promoting activity reached between 9 and 15 days post-lesion. Aged animals, in which reactive sprouting is deficient, showed no increase in activity by 12 days after deafferentation of the hippocampus. The neurite-promoting activity of brain extracts was non-diffusible, heat-labile, and sensitive to proteolysis. All of the activity bound to diethylaminoethyl (cellulose) and was eluted at 200 mM NaCl. The apparent molecular weight (by gel filtration) of the activity in extracts of uninjured brain was 9-17 kilodaltons, whereas the extracts of injured brain also had peaks or shoulders at 30, 70 and greater than or equal to 200 kilodaltons. These data suggest that the brain neurite-promoting activity resides in one or more proteins. Both the injury-induced and basal activities were different from laminin, nerve growth factor, and polyornithine-bindable neurite-promoting factors. The injury-induced activity was sensitive to repeated freezing and thawing, but this inactivation was reversed by thiol reagents such as glutathione, thioglycerol, and mercaptoethanol. We report a neurite-promoting factor that is induced following brain injury or denervation, and may also be important for reactive axon sprouting after brain injury. The induction of this factor is abnormal in aged animals, as is the reactive sprouting response. The properties of the injury-induced activity distinguish it from the basal activity (found in uninjured brain) and from other characterized neurite-promoting factors.
The distribution in the main cuneate nucleus of cells projecting to the inferior olive and the intermediate zone of the cerebellar anterior lobe were compared by means of double retrograde labeling methods in the cat. The tracer combinations were either Fast Blue and Diamidino Yellow Dihydrochloride; or horseradish peroxidase conjugated to wheat germ agglutinin and Diamidino Yellow Dihydrochloride. Neurons in the caudal, middle and rostral subdivisions of the main cuneate nucleus project to the inferior olive. Differences exist, however, in its number and location along the rostrocaudal extent of the nucleus. Cells projecting to the inferior olive predominate in the caudal and middle subdivisions, where they concentrate ventrally. No cells in the &quot;clusters region&quot; project to the inferior olive. Main cuneate nucleus neurons projecting to the cerebellum concentrate rostral to the obex, bordering the external cuneate nucleus and partially intermixing with the rostrally located cells projecting to the inferior olive. However, no double-labeled cells were found. The results indicate that the main cuneate nucleus projections to the inferior olive and cerebellar anterior lobe originate from different populations of neurons with high specific locations within the nucleus. This finding is in agreement with previous studies suggesting that each of the main cuneate nucleus targets receives its input from a distinct population of neurons within the nucleus.
Based on recent evidence for a physiological remodeling of neuromuscular contacts (Wernig et al.), a morphometric study was performed on axon- and cholinesterase-stained cutaneous pectoris muscle of frog. The aim of this investigation was to separate changes due to aging, growth, and environmental conditions. Within a single muscle, fiber diameters, synaptic lengths, number of intraterminal branches, and lengths of abandoned gutters differ considerably (with coefficients of variation from 40 to 56%). On the other hand, these parameters are correlated and correlations hold when muscle fibers grow during ontogenesis: large muscle fibers bear larger and more complex junctions than small fibers. Obviously there exist growth regulating interactions between muscle fiber and the presynaptic nerve. To dissociate between age- and growth-related changes muscle fibers of equal diameters in frogs of different age are compared. With increase in age there is an additional increase in abandoned gutters, synaptic length, and complexity independent of muscle fiber growth. Possibly, abandoned gutters accumulate with time and synaptic length increases with age as the net outcome of continual synapse remodeling. When freshly caught frogs (October) were compared with frogs kept under laboratory conditions for a period of 16 weeks (which in addition included a change in season) the number of sprouts in a junction increased by about 2, the average length of presynaptic nerve terminals with small circumscribed contacts increased by 30-150 microns, and abandoned gutters tended to be shorter on fibers with large junctions. The hypothesis is discussed that remodeling is &quot;inherent&quot; to nerve terminals whereby sprouting is counterbalanced and reversed by nerve activity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
beta-Endorphin-like immunoreactivity was measured in the cerebrospinal fluid of 20 male talapoin monkeys living in mixed-sex social groups. It was shown that beta-endorphin was the major immunoreactive peptide; there was no evidence for high molecular weight precursors, or for either N-acetyl or C-shortened metabolites. Dominant males (those at the top of the social hierarchy) had lower levels of beta-endorphin than those of intermediate rank; subordinate males had higher levels than either of the other two ranks--about three times those measured in dominants. There were significant negative correlations between beta-endorphin in cerebrospinal fluid and both the amount of aggression given and sexual behaviour shown towards females. The response of the hypothalamo-pituitary system to opiate blockade was tested by giving the males naloxone in doses of 0.125, 0.25, 0.5, 1.0 and 5.0 mg/kg and assaying serum levels of luteinizing hormone 20 min later. Dominant males released significant amounts of luteinizing hormone at doses of 0.25 and higher; there was no release in either intermediate or subordinate monkeys at any dose. These findings show that an animal's rank in the social group in which it lives is strongly correlated with beta-endorphin levels in the cerebrospinal fluid, and with changes in the neuroendocrine response to opiate blockade. Altered opiate neural activity may be responsible for the depressed levels of sexual behaviour and gonadal function observed in monkeys at the bottom of the hierarchy.
The present study examines the role of central beta-endorphin in the generation of stimulation-induced analgesia from the ventral midbrain periaqueductal gray of freely-moving rats. Electrical stimulation of the ventral midbrain periaqueductal gray led to an antinociception against noxious heat which gradually subsided post-stimulation over a period of about 15 min. Locomotor effects (ipsilateral rotation) were also seen which were not correlated in intensity with the analgesia and which disappeared immediately with termination of stimulation. There was no indication of any aversive effects. Application of the opioid antagonist, naloxone, 10 min pre-stimulation, strongly attenuated the antinociception without changing basal thresholds. It did not influence the locomotor changes. Bilateral, radiofrequency lesions of the mediobasal arcuate hypothalamus greatly depleted immunoreactive beta-endorphin from brain tissues without affecting its levels in plasma. Lesioned rats showed a pronounced reduction of stimulation-produced antinociception in the absence of any change in basal thresholds; the locomotor effects of stimulation were not influenced. The degree of depletion of immunoreactive-beta-endorphin significantly correlated with the degree of attenuation of antinociception. These data suggest: stimulation of the ventral midbrain periaqueductal gray leads both to an antinociception and locomotor effects in freely-moving rats: these can be clearly dissociated from each other; the antinociception (but not locomotor effects) are mediated by an endogenous opioid sensitive to blockade by naloxone; and central beta-endorphin may be the endogenous opioid mediating stimulation-produced antinociception from the ventral midbrain periaqueductal gray in the rat.
Fetal noradrenergic neurons from the brain stem locus coeruleus region can be successfully grafted as a dissociated cell suspension provided that the dissociation is done in the absence of any trypsin digestion step. The survival, fiber outgrowth and biochemical function of locus coeruleus neurons, taken from 13- to 15-day-old rat embryos, have been studied after injection into the dorsal hippocampal formation and the thoracolumbar spinal cord in adult rats. All rats were treated with an i.v. injection of 6-hydroxydopamine prior to grafting to remove the intrinsic locus coeruleus projections to these areas, and they were taken for fluorescence histochemical or biochemical analyses 2-7 months after transplantation. Up to 330 surviving noradrenaline neurons were found at each implantation site (injected with 2-3 microliters of cell suspension) which represents an estimated survival rate of about 40%. In the most successful cases the entire dorsal hippocampal formation, and an approximately 4 cm long segment of the thoracolumbar spinal cord, was supplied with a new noradrenaline-containing terminal network, which reached normal densities in the regions closest to the grafts. In the hippocampal formation, in particular, the ingrowing axons re-established a laminar innervation pattern which resembled that of the normal locus coeruleus afferents. In the hippocampus, two 2-microliters injections of locus coeruleus cell suspension restored the total hippocampal noradrenaline content to an average of 55%, and the noradrenaline synthesis rate (as assessed by the rate of DOPA accumulation after synthesis inhibition) was found to be close to normal in the graft-reinnervated specimens. In the spinal cord, two 3-microliters injections restored the noradrenaline level in the thoracolumbar cord (a 4.5 cm long segment) to an average of 22% of normal, with the highest individual levels being close to normal. Determinations of the noradrenaline metabolite 3,4-dihydroxy-phenylethyleneglycol indicated that the rate of noradrenaline metabolism in the graft-reinnervated spinal cord was close to that of the normal intact spinal cord. The results demonstrate the potential of the suspension grafting technique for extensive noradrenergic reinnervation of the hippocampal formation or large portions of the spinal cord. Fetal locus coeruleus neurons implanted in this way can re-establish fairly normal terminal innervation patterns and reinstate noradrenaline turnover and metabolism in a previously denervated central target.
The number of retrogradely labelled motor, sensory and sympathetic neurons were determined after application of concentrated solutions of horseradish peroxidase to transected rat sural and medial gastrocnemius nerves and rabbit sural nerves. In some experiments, the number of labelled cell bodies approached the number of axons counted from electronmicrographs of the nerve trunk. In the other experiments, deficits apparently resulted from failure to label some small neurons, because the mean size of labelled somata was higher. Incorporation of dimethylsulphoxide, poly-L-ornithine or a detergent (Teric-X8) in the applied solution did not significantly increase the number of labelled neurons. When horseradish peroxidase was applied outside nerves that were not transected, only the inclusion of Teric-X8 consistently produced labelling, but of less than 5% of the total axonal population. Other solutions occasionally produced labelling of even fewer cells, probably because of unintentional axon damage. The data suggest that a reasonable quantitative description of the population of axons projecting in a peripheral nerve trunk can be made by retrograde labelling with horseradish peroxidase applied during deliberate disruption of all axons. Small neurons, presumably with fine axons, may not always be labelled, even if chemical additives thought to facilitate penetration or uptake of the tracer are used.
The innervation of rat and guinea pig urinary tract was examined using immunohistochemistry, radioimmunoassay and True Blue retrograde tracing techniques and was further assessed following both surgical and chemical denervation experiments. Substantial amounts of calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactivity (range 20-150 pmol/g) were detected in tissue extracts and localised to nerve fibres distributed throughout the urinary tract of both species, these being concentrated in the ureter and base of the bladder. In the guinea pig, the number and distribution pattern of calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactive nerves appeared to be identical to that of substance P-containing nerves, whereas in the rat the former predominated. Seven days after injection of the fluorescent dye True Blue into tissues of the urinary tract, retrogradely labelled cells were found in the dorsal root ganglia. These cells had a segmental distribution pattern which was specific for each of the injection sites. Thus, after injection of True Blue into the left kidney hilum a single group of labelled cells were found in the ipsilateral T10-L2 dorsal root ganglia. In contrast, injection into the left ureter produced labelled cells in two separate groups of ipsilateral ganglia (T11-L3 and L6-S1). Injection into the wall of the bladder and upper urethra resulted in bilateral labelling, with most labelled cells occurring in L6 and S1 ganglia. Approximately 90% of labelled cells in T10-L3 dorsal root ganglia displayed calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactivity, but only 60% of retrogradely labelled bladder neurons in L6-S1 ganglia were immunoreactive for this peptide. Adult guinea pigs and neonatal rats injected systemically with capsaicin subsequently exhibited a marked reduction both in the amount of calcitonin gene-related peptide immunostaining and the concentration of immunoreactive material in the urinary tract, dorsal root ganglia and spinal cord. In rats treated neonatally with capsaicin, there was a significant reduction in the number of retrogradely labelled cells and a hypertrophy of the bladder. Sectioning of the pelvic and hypogastric nerves in the rat also resulted in a depletion of calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactive nerves in the bladder, whereas chemical sympathectomy appeared to have no effect. The results indicate that calcitonin gene-related peptide immunoreactivity occurs in a major proportion of afferent neurons supplying the urinary tract of the rat and guinea pig.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The neuropeptides substance P, neurotensin and [Met]enkephalin are found in the ventral tegmental area, site of the A10 dopamine cell bodies. Evidence suggests a functional interaction between these peptides and the dopaminergic neurons. All three peptides have been shown to exert an activating effect on these neurons. The present study analyzed the effects of ventral tegmental area infusion of neurotensin, substance P and D-ala-[Met]enkephalin on feeding behavior. These effects were studied in both food-deprived and satiated rats. During a 30 min test, the following parameters were registered: latency to eat, total food intake, food spillage, number of eating bouts and duration of eating. Similar measures were taken for drinking. In deprived rats substance P (0.5, 3.0 micrograms) increased latency to eat but did not affect other parameters, and substance P did not affect eating in satiated rats. Neurotensin (0.5, 2.5 micrograms) increased latency to eat and markedly reduced food consumption in deprived rats and had no effect in satiated rats. D-Ala-[Met]enkephalin (0.1, 1.0 micrograms) stimulated feeding behavior in both deprived and satiated rats. These results show that although the different peptides are presumed to activate the dopaminergic A10 neurons, their effects on feeding behavior can be differentiated. The findings are discussed in terms of motor and motivational mechanisms, and the relative contributions of specific and non-specific influences on feeding are considered.







The effect of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) on nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons in the mouse was re-examined in view of recent conflicting reports regarding the neurotoxic effect of MPTP in this experimental animal. It was found that while MPTP destroyed a substantial number of dopaminergic nerve terminals in the striatum of young mature (6-8 weeks old) mice, it left the majority of cells in the pars compacta of the substantia nigra (SNc) unaffected. It was also found that 5 months after MPTP treatment there was substantial, although incomplete, recovery of striatal DA nerve terminal markers (DA level, metabolites, uptake, [3H]mazindol binding). Given these observations, it is concluded that while the young mature MPTP mouse may not be a valid animal model of Parkinson's disease (since it does not develop severe SNc cell loss characteristic of this disorder), it will be valuable for the study of how MPTP destroys dopaminergic nerve terminals and may prove useful as an experimental system for studying recovery of dopaminergic fibers after injury and for exploring ways to accelerate this recovery.
The impact of intracerebroventricular administration of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-HDA) on the dopamine (DA)-containing nigrostriatal projection was determined by regional histochemical and biochemical analyses. One week postinjection, we observed that tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-positive terminals were almost completely absent from the medial portion of striatum but gradually increased in density toward the lateral margin of this structure. A similar gradient was indicated by fluorescence histochemistry and biochemical analyses of DA. In contrast, the 6-HDA-induced changes in TH activity and in dihydroxyphenylacetic acid content were less severe and showed little or no medial-to-lateral gradient. These high levels of TH activity and DOPAC content, relative to local DA concentrations, suggest an increase in the synthesis and release of DA from residual terminals that may serve to compensate for the brain damage. By 4 months postlesion, both histochemical and biochemical analyses indicated the presence of more DA terminals in striatum than there had been one week postlesion. This change was most markedly obvious in the medial striatum, which had been almost completely devoid of terminals at one week postlesion. Retrograde tracing experiments revealed that terminals appearing in the medial striatum at 4 months postlesion arise from the same region of the substantia nigra that innervates the medial striatum in the intact animal. Thus, no change in the topographic relation between substantia nigra and striatum occurred as a result of the lesion.

A combination of gradient reversed-phase high performance liquid chromatography (RP/HPLC) with a radioreceptor assay detector that uses two ligands is used to obtain effectively the metabolic profile of endogenous receptoractive opioid peptides in the canine pituitary and in seven selected brain regions including the hypothalamus, caudate nucleus, mid-brain, amygdala, thalamus, pons-medulla, and the hippocampus. Gradient RP/HPLC separates a mixture of endogenous peptides over a wide range of hydrophobicities. A novel opioid preparation from canine limbic system synaptosomes is utilized in a radioreceptorassay screen; tritiated etorphine (ET) or D-2ala, D-5leuleucine enkephalin (DADL) is used as the competitively displaced ligand. This receptor-rich preparation contains several receptor types, and thus serves well as a screen with the required low level of specificity. Subsequent analysis with other detectors of high specificity (MS, RIA) will follow this screen in other studies. Etorphine interacts with several of the opioid peptide-preferring receptors, whereas DADL is more specific towards the delta receptor that preferentially binds the smaller pentapeptides of the enkephalin family. The highest amount of peptide receptor activity found in this study is in the pituitary tissue, a smaller amount in the hypothalamus and caudate nucleus, and still lower amounts in the other five brain tissue extracts. This variation in peptide concentration most probably reflects three separate factors that operate in this biologic system: differential tissue-specific processing patterns of the large peptide precursors; distribution of the three opioid peptide systems; and the receptor preparation and the radioligand used in the assay. The structures of the receptoractive compounds in each RP/HPLC peak await mass spectrometric confirmation.

A rapid method is described which makes it possible to obtain sharp, pencil-like tips on factory-insulated tungsten wires. These features cannot be achieved on preinsulated wire using electrolytic etching techniques. In essence, the cut end of an insulated 25 micron wire is ground on a flat metal surface containing a thin layer of powdered diamond. When both the wire and the diamond-covered disc are rotated simultaneously, a sharp pointed tip is produced within 2-5 min with a smoothly tapering sleeve of insulation. The resulting tips yielded high-quality single-unit spike trains when tested in rat cochlear nucleus. This method lends itself well to those single unit or multineuronal studies requiring rapid, low-cost electrode production, and minimum tissue damage.
We modified Ungewitter's (1951) and Beermann and Cassens' (1976) non-selective silver methods for peripheral nerve axons and their terminals by lengthening the time for the prestaining treatment of sections, adjusting the times of various stages of the staining procedures and selecting reagents with minimal chloride and sulphate impurities. These methods were applied to Bouin's fixed material embedded in wax with serial sections up to 100 micron thick, cut longitudinally. The Ungewitter modification stained sensory axons and their terminals very well but failed to give good impregnations of motor fibres. In addition, it marked intrafusal muscle fibres with a peppery silver deposit while sparing extrafusal fibres. The Beermann and Cassens method yielded excellent details of motor axons and their terminals but results were very poor on sensory fibres. Both sensory and motor methods worked regardless of whether the neural elements were mature, regenerating, or neonatal. Both methods consistently yielded pale backgrounds in these thick sections.
Previous studies investigating electrotonic coupling in mammalian central nervous system have used the fluorescent marker Lucifer Yellow as an indicator of the presence of intercellular junctions between neurons. The fluorescent dye 5,6-carboxyfluorescein is known to have approximately 5 times the fluorescent yield of Lucifer Yellow. We have investigated the use of this dye as a potential alternative fluorescent marker on two types of neurons in the rat hippocampus in vitro. Unfixed hippocampal slices were mounted in a mixture of n-propyl gallate in glycerol and viewed with epifluorescence optics. Injections of small, brief hyperpolarizing currents through carboxyfluorescein-filled glass pipettes reliably produced neuronal fills of good quality. Both dendritic spines and axonal arborizations (including the thin mossy fibers of the dentate gyrus) were frequently observable. In addition to single cell fills, clusters consisting of 2-6 neurons were observed. No correlation was found between the number of cells per cluster and the ejection time. In addition, even cells exhibiting poor electrophysiological characteristics, or cells impaled only briefly, frequently exhibited good quality dye filling. This method will be particularly useful when large sample sizes are necessary to compare regional variations in the extent of electrotonic coupling in the mammalian brain.
Because of modern technology, the rate of survival after neurologic injury has increased. The severity of patients' disabilities has also increased. Early rehabilitation intervention is beneficial from both a functional and an economic standpoint. This article describes a formal multidisciplinary protocol for comprehensive rehabilitation beginning with admission to the neurosurgical intensive care unit. A case study is also presented.

The binding patterns of four different lectins conjugated to horseradish peroxidase were investigated in the nervous system of juvenile Xenopus borealis. Only the lectin soybean agglutinin revealed a very selective binding pattern, which was restricted to the olfactory system. The olfactory and vomeronasal epithelia, the olfactory and accessory olfactory nerves and the olfactory and accessory olfactory bulbs were all labelled. The ventral portions of the olfactory nerve and bulb were however more intensely labelled than their dorsal portions. The rest of the brain and spinal cord did not bind this lectin except for a small discrete set of unmyelinated axons travelling in the medial forebrain bundle. Ultrastructural investigations revealed that soybean agglutinin was confined to the cell surface of olfactory neurons. The selective binding of this lectin of olfactory neurons suggests that specific cell surface glycoconjugates binding soybean agglutinin may have either a functional or developmental role in the olfactory system of Xenopus.
Axotomy-induced changes of the molecular forms of acetylcholinesterase in the facial nucleus of the rat and guinea pig were investigated. Evidence is presented that facial motoneurons of the guinea pig are capable of synthesizing considerable amounts of 16S acetylcholinesterase, and furthermore that acetylcholinesterase isoenzymes show species differences in their response to axon transection. Three isoenzymes could be separated by velocity sedimentation, which correspond to G1 (4S), G4 (10S) and A12 (16S) acetylcholinesterase. After axotomy, G4 activity was decreased in both species by 40% 2-3 weeks after nerve transection. In the rat, G1 was even further depressed, whereas in guinea pig facial nucleus G1 showed only a slight change. A12 displayed a clear species difference: in the rat, it was decreased to 60% of control 5 days after axotomy. In guinea pig, however, A12 increased dramatically to values of 400-500% of the unoperated control, and maintained elevated levels even 120 days after operation. This result does not agree with the decrease of transmitter metabolism in regenerating nerves and provides support to the hypothesis that acetylcholinesterase in regenerating nerves may have functions different from transmitter hydrolysis.
The acoustic, somatosensory and visual areas of the rat cerebral cortex were mapped in view of overlapping regions, giving polysensory evoked responses. In case of each pair of modalities overlapping areas were found between the cortical representations. The evoked potentials of two different modalities show occlusive and facilitatory interactions in these overlapping areas. In the &quot;core&quot; region of these areas, points with especially high values of occlusion are concentrated while at the periphery weak occlusion or even facilitation is characteristic. It is supposed that the polysensory areas interposed between primary sensory fields represent not only areas with mixed responsiveness but also stage for real physiological interactions between different sensory systems.
Three tectal afferent-fiber systems were experimentally labeled in the cat to learn how their distributions within the superior colliculus were related to the prominent compartments of high acetylcholinesterase activity found in the intermediate gray layer. Presumptive somatic sensory afferents were labeled by injections of horseradish peroxidase-wheatgerm agglutinin conjugate placed at the bulbospinal junction and in the ventral anterior ectosylvian cortex corresponding to somatic sensory area SIV. Vision-related afferents were labeled by injections of the same tracer substance into the lateral suprasylvian visual area. In each animal, a single type of injection was made and a detailed study was carried out to compare the patterns of anterograde labeling and acetylcholinesterase staining in serially adjoining sections through the superior colliculus. Fibers labeled by the three types of injection were distributed in clusters that resembled the acetylcholinesterase-positive patches in the intermediate gray layer. In no case, however, were the afferent-fiber clusters in register with the histochemically defined patches. Instead, the innervations derived from the bulbospinal junction, anterior estosylvian sulcus and lateral suprasylvian visual area all formed patchworks within the acetylcholinesterase-poor domain of the intermediate gray layer. In some instances, the afferent-fiber clusters and enzyme-positive patches appeared to have complementary distributions. In other instances, the afferent-fiber clusters seemed to be arranged in the acetylcholinesterase-poor parts of the intermediate layer in a fashion independent of, but not significantly overlapping, the acetylcholinesterase-positive patches. Not all of the space between the acetylcholinesterase-positive patches was taken up by any one of the afferent-fiber systems labeled. The complementary and non-matching distribution of these afferent systems in relation to the acetylcholinesterase-rich patches of the intermediate gray layer stands in contrast to the spatial registration of two other tectal afferent systems with the zones of high acetylcholinesterase activity. Both nigrotectal and frontotectal afferents converge on the acetylcholinesterase-positive patches. We conclude that afferent systems projecting to the intermediate gray layer can be divided into at least two groups: those innervating the acetylcholinesterase-rich compartments and those avoiding them.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The organization of the subcortical connections of caudate nucleus and putamen in the squirrel monkey was studied using horseradish peroxidase conjugated to wheat germ agglutinin as anterograde and retrograde neuronal tracer. The tracer was injected in similar quantities in the putamen on the left side and in the caudate nucleus on the right side in 10 monkeys, and its presence was revealed by means of the tetramethylbenzidine method. The study of anterogradely labeled fibers visualized after such injections shows that putaminofugal fibers terminate massively in the ventral two-thirds of the globus pallidus, where they display a band-like arrangement, and much less abundantly in the caudal third of the substantia nigra. In contrast, caudatofugal fibers occupy only the dorsal third of globus pallidus but arborize profusely in the rostral two-thirds of substantia nigra. In the pars reticulata of the substantia nigra the caudatonigral fibers form a highly complex network composed of fiber trabeculae while the putaminonigral fibers occur as more discrete fascicles confined to the dorsolateral region of the structure. In the pars compacta of the substantia nigra the retrogradely labeled cells occur in the form of clusters that are closely intermingled with clusters of unlabeled neurons. The labeled-cell clusters are particularly dense on the putamen-injected side and more loosely organized on the caudate-injected side. On both sides, however, the striatonigral fibers that reach the substantia nigra pars compacta can be seen to terminate almost exclusively upon clusters composed of retrogradely labeled cells, suggesting the existence of a precise reciprocal link between nigral and striatal neuronal aggregates. At thalamic levels the retrogradely labeled cells are distributed according to a strikingly asymmetric pattern. For instance, a prominent labeling of neurons in the central superior lateral nucleus is seen only on the caudate-injected side. Furthermore, in the centromedian/parafascicular complex retrograde cell labeling is seen exclusively in parafascicular nucleus on the caudate-injected side and only in the centromedian nucleus, except its lateralmost portion, on the putamen-injected side. Control experiments involving injection of the tracer in cerebral cortex overlying the striatum reveal that the neurons in the lateral segment of the centromedian, which do not project to striatum, are in fact reciprocally connected with the cerebral cortex. In addition, our data show that some of the so-called &quot;specific&quot; thalamic nuclei contribute significantly to the thalamostriatal projection in monkey.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
This study quantitatively addresses the hypothesis that there is a systematic relationship between the morphologic characteristics of locus neurons and the particular target regions they innervate. Following horseradish peroxidase injections into selected terminal fields, locus coeruleus cell bodies are heavily labeled by retrograde transport so that somata size and shape, and in many cases primary dendritic pattern can be observed. This allows the classification of neurons as one of six cell types: large multipolar cells within ventral locus coeruleus, large multipolar cells in the anterior pole of locus coeruleus, fusiform cells in dorsal LC, posterior pole cells, medium-sized multipolar cells (termed core cells in this report), and small round cells. It was found that while core cells contribute to the innervation of all terminal fields examined, other cell types project to more restricted sets of targets. The contributions of each type to selected efferents are presented in detail. In particular, fusiform cells project to hippocampus and cortex, large multipolar cells in ventral locus coeruleus project to spinal cord and cerebellum, and small round cells in central and anterior locus coeruleus, as well as large multipolar cells in anterior locus coeruleus, project to hypothalamus. These results, in conjunction with those described in the preceding report, indicate that locus coeruleus is intrinsically organized with respect to efferent projections with much more specificity than has previously been evident. This high degree of organization is consistent with other recent demonstrations of functional specificity exhibited by locus coeruleus neurons.
The present study examines the spatial distribution within rat locus coeruleus of neurons projecting to particular brain regions. In order to accurately recreate, in digital and pictorial formats, the spatial distribution of neurons for the entire nucleus locus coeruleus, three-dimensional reconstructions were created which specified the location of each individual Nissl-stained locus coeruleus cell in each of five nuclei. Dynamic computerized displays were visually analyzed and statistically compared. The nuclei from different brains were found to be strikingly similar in density and distribution of cells. In order to determine whether the cells of origin for particular locus coeruleus projections were clustered within the nucleus, reconstructions were created of the distributions of cells labeled by injections of a retrograde tracer, horseradish peroxidase, into particular terminal regions. Groups consisting of animals with injections into the same target areas were visually and statistically compared. The cells of origin of most efferent projections were found to be spatially organized within locus coeruleus. Specifically, projections to both the dorsal and ventral hippocampus originated solely from the dorsal segment of the nucleus, while spinal cord projections originated from ventral-posterior locus coeruleus. Cells of origin of cerebral and cerebellar cortical efferents, as well as hypothalamic efferents, exhibited less clustering, although reliable differences in distribution were observed. The most striking example of clustered cells of origin was exhibited by the large norepinephrine-containing cells constituting the anterior pole of locus coeruleus which were labeled only by hypothalamic injections. This analysis of spatial organization within locus coeruleus is unique in its utilization of a defined control group, experimental groups consisting of strictly defined replications, accurate three-dimensional reconstruction, and statistical comparisons. The demonstrated spatial heterogeneity of locus coeruleus neurons with respect to efferent projections can now be compared to the spatial distributions of other cellular characteristics such as soma morphology, colocalized transmitters and physiological properties. Presumably, such spatial segregation reflects the operation of functionally important organizing principles within the nucleus.
The occurrence and distribution of methionine- and leucine-enkephalin-like immunoreactivity were investigated in the cat coeliac ganglion using either the indirect immunoperoxidase method or the peroxidase-antiperoxidase technique. Several antisera raised to methionine- and leucine-enkephalin were used. Their specificity was assessed by incubating sections of the coeliac ganglion with increasing dilutions of antisera and with antisera saturated with their respective antigen. The present study was performed both in untreated and in colchicine-treated cats. Immunoreactive methionine- and leucine-enkephalin-like cell bodies were only visualized in colchicine-treated cats. Two types of labeled cells were observed. The first type had a size similar to that of unlabeled principal ganglion cells. These labeled cells were numerous and scattered throughout the ganglion; they probably represented enkephalin-containing ganglion cells. The second type of immunoreactive cells were of a much smaller size. They were always gathered in small clusters of about 5-15 cells and were not numerous; they presumably represented enkephalin-containing small intensely fluorescent cells. Immunoreactive nerve fibres were mainly observed in untreated cats and accessorily in colchicine-treated cats. In untreated animals dense networks of methionine- and leucine-enkephalin-like immunoreactive fibres were found in the coeliac ganglion. These fibres had numerous varicosities which often closely surrounded unlabeled principal ganglion cells. In colchicine-treated cats some immunoreactive fibres surrounded labeled principal ganglion cell bodies. The present results establish for the first time the presence of enkephalin-like immunoreactive principal ganglion cells in a mammalian sympathetic prevertebral ganglion. The presence of enkephalin-containing principal ganglion cells, small intensely fluorescent cells and nerve terminals, supports an important role of enkephalins in the integrative synaptic activities of cat coeliac ganglion cells.
It has long been proposed that the excitatory and toxic properties of acidic amino acid receptor agonists are linked. To test this hypothesis, the depolarizing effects of quisqualate, kainate and N-methyl-D-aspartate in adult and immature rat cerebellar slices have been studied in relation to their neurotoxic effects in the same tissues (reported separately). A &quot;grease-gap&quot; method was used to measure the depolarizing responses of Purkinje cells and granule cells in lobule VI to the agonists. The depolarizing potencies of kainate and quisqualate were apparently similar on both cell types and at both ages studied although maximal responses to kainate were always larger. N-Methyl-D-aspartate was a very weak agonist in the adult slices but was much more effective in the immature tissues, apparently on both Purkinje cells and granule cells. Comparison of the depolarizing effects of the agonists with their neurotoxic effects on Purkinje cells and granule cells suggested that: (a) the ability to depolarize is a required condition for an agonist to be neurotoxic, (b) the magnitude of depolarization, rather than depolarizing potency, is the more pertinent determinant of neurotoxic potency and (c) resistance to the neurotoxicity of an agonist is not necessarily associated with resistance to its depolarizing actions. Histological studies indicated that the neurotoxicity of N-methyl-D-aspartate and kainate in immature cerebellar slices could largely not be replicated by veratridine (50 microM) or high extracellular K+ (124 mM) indicating that receptor-mediated ionic fluxes may be needed in addition to those caused by depolarization. Exposure of the slices to anoxia in the absence of glucose partially reproduced the toxicity of the receptor agonists. Application of ouabain for 30 min caused necrosis of all the cells which are vulnerable to the agonists but spared the cells which are not vulnerable. Profound ionic imbalance thus appears to be a sufficient explanation for amino acid neurotoxicity.
The ionic requirements for the neurotoxic effects of N-methyl-D-aspartate and kainate in incubated slices of developing rat cerebellum were studied using light and electron microscopy. Under normal conditions, 30 min exposure to 100 microM N-methyl-D-aspartate followed by a 90 min recovery period in agonist-free medium resulted in the necrosis of differentiating granule cells and deep nuclear neurons, while the corresponding effect of 100 microM kainate was the death of Golgi cells. Substitution of 96% of the Cl- in the medium with isethionate did not prevent the toxicity of either agonist. However, all the ordinarily vulnerable cells survived and exhibited normal ultrastructure if the slices were exposed to the excitants in a Ca2+-free medium and were subsequently allowed to recover in a Ca2+-containing solution. Prior to this recovery period, granule, Golgi and deep nuclear neurons exposed to N-methyl-D-aspartate were markedly swollen but their mitochondria were hypercontracted and there was no clumping of chromatin or obvious swelling of the rough endoplasmic reticulum or Golgi apparatus, in contrast to observations made on slices exposed to this agonist in normal medium. Substitution of all the Na+ in the medium with a mixture of choline (118 mM) and Tris (25 mM) itself caused necrosis of granule cells and deep nuclear neurons and an intense microvacuolation of Purkinje cells, due, in large part, to high amplitude mitochondrial swelling. A low (25 mM) Na+ medium was well tolerated under control conditions. This medium protected granule cells but not deep nuclear neurons from the toxicity of N-methyl-D-aspartate and failed to prevent kainate-induced death of Golgi cells. It is concluded that the acute neurotoxic effects of the two excitatory amino acid receptor agonists in the slices are dependent on extracellular Ca2+ and are independent of extracellular Cl-. Where apparent, the protective effect of reducing extracellular Na+ on the toxicity of N-methyl-D-aspartate is likely to reflect the involvement of this ion in the primary depolarizing mechanism.
Slice preparations of the developing rat cerebellum were used to investigate the light and electron microscopic correlates of reversible and irreversible neuronal injury caused by the neurotoxic excitatory amino acid receptor agonists, kainate and N-methyl-D-aspartate. The slices were examined after various periods of exposure to the agonists (up to 30 min) with or without a 90 min recovery period in agonist-free medium. N-Methyl-D-aspartate (100 microM) caused necrosis of deep nuclear neurons and differentiating granule cells, the exposure times necessary to induce non-recoverable damage (leading to necrosis), being, respectively, 10 min and 20-30 min. Exposure periods of only 2-4 min with kainate (100 microM) were needed for Golgi cells to subsequently undergo necrosis. Other cell types (Purkinje, granule and deep nuclear neurons) were altered histologically by kainate but most recovered fully from 30 min exposures. Before the recovery period, the worst affected of these cells (deep nuclear neurons) displayed increased cytoplasmic and nuclear electron density and microvacuolation due to swelling of Golgi cisterns but little or no chromatin clumping or mitochondrial expansion. The neurons which were injured irreversibly by the agonists within 30 min displayed, near the time of lethal injury, increased cytoplasmic and nuclear electron lucency, marked focal aggregation of chromatin and swelling of Golgi apparatus. Mitochondrial swelling did not appear to precede lethal injury and even after exposure times sufficient, or more than sufficient, to lead to necrosis, large numbers of mitochondria remained in a condensed configuration. The significance of the histological changes is discussed and they are compared with those occurring in other pathological conditions. The time scales required for the receptor agonists to induce irreversible cellular lesions would be consistent with this being a process which is responsible for acute neuronal necrosis in the brain.
The expression of neural cell adhesion molecule was analysed by indirect immunofluorescence on adult mouse skeletal muscle subjected to a variety of experimental lesions. Adult mouse muscle does not express neural cell adhesion molecule at the sarcolemma. However, following denervation there is a rapid rise in neural cell adhesion molecule levels; this is initially in the cytoplasm of the myofibres but by 18 days there is intense reactivity at the sarcolemma. A nerve crush lesion was used to show that the increase in neural cell adhesion molecule levels following denervation is accompanied by a switch-off of neural cell adhesion molecule expression following reinnervation. Paralysis of skeletal muscle by botulinum toxin injection is sufficient to activate neural cell adhesion molecule expression. As paralysis of skeletal muscle by botulinum toxin is not accompanied by activation of muscle satellite cells or degeneration products of nerve or myelin, it suggests that the observed levels of neural cell adhesion molecule are synthesised by myofibres. As the expression of neural cell adhesion molecule in these lesions parallels the ability of skeletal muscle to accept innervation it is possible that neural cell adhesion molecule acts as a molecular cue at the sarcolemma in regulating synaptogenesis.
We previously showed that electrical stimulation of the nucleus locus coeruleus resulted 4 weeks later in greatly improved performance in the acquisition and extinction of a food-reinforced operant task. To ascertain whether adrenergic receptors of particular brain regions were involved in this long term behavioral modification, we studied the characteristics of alpha 1, and alpha 2 and beta-binding sites after stimulation of the locus coeruleus. In the first experiment these characteristics were studied, 4 weeks after treatment, in cortex, hippocampus, hypothalamus and the brainstem. Neither the number, nor the affinity of beta-receptors ([125I]iodocyanopindolol binding sites) was modified in any brain region. A significant increase in the number of alpha 1-receptors ([3H]prazosin binding sites) was observed in the cortex (62%). The number of alpha 2-receptors, ([3H]yohimbine binding sites), was significantly increased in cortex (99%), hippocampus (33%) and hypothalamus (113%). No significant alteration of the alpha 1, alpha 2 and beta-adrenoceptors was observed in the brainstem. To investigate the time course of these adrenoceptor changes, the characteristics of alpha 1, alpha 2 and beta-adrenoceptors were studied 2 weeks after stimulation using the same ligands and in the same brain regions. The only significant modifications observed were an increase of the alpha 2-adrenoceptors in the cortex (19.4%) and in the hypothalamus (54%). Furthermore, in both experiments, the increase in the number of alpha 1 and alpha 2-receptors was associated with a significant decrease in affinity. These results are discussed in relation to our previous behavioral and pharmacological findings.

Gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) producing neurons which have access to fenestrated capillaries were identified through a combination of indirect immunofluorescence for GnRH with a fluorescein-taged second antibody and histochemical demonstration of the localization of blood borne and retrogradely transported horseradish peroxidase. In the mouse, GnRH positive neurons were present in the septum, which includes neurons originating from the nervus terminalis, the nucleus medialis and triangularis septi, and the nucleus of the diagonal band. Also, GnRH immunoreactive neurons could be seen in the lateral anterior hypothalamus, the nucleus preopticus medianus, the rostral nucleus periventricularis hypothalami and, to a lesser extent, the nucleus preopticus medialis. Single GnRH positive neurons were found in the nucleus supraopticus, the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and the cingulate cortex. GnRH neurons which showed uptake of horseradish peroxidase were located in all of these regions and intermingled with unlabeled GnRH neurons. No preferential topographical concentration of GnRH neurons with access to the fenestrated vasculature was apparent. In animals in which GnRH secretion was stimulated by castration for 2 weeks, 65% of all GnRH neuronal perikarya contained horseradish peroxidase. This was reduced to 35% after a 2-week treatment of ovariectomized animals with 10 micrograms/day estradiol while the total number of immunoreactive GnRH cells remained unchanged. No differences in the number of GnRH-horseradish peroxidase positive cells was seen when the dose of horseradish peroxidase of the survival time were increased. While the presence of certain GnRH neurons with dual actions via collaterals cannot be excluded, the results suggest that there are two populations of GnRH neurons, one with access to fenestrated capillaries which is probably related to neurosecretory endocrine regulation of anterior pituitary gonadotropin secretion, and one without access to fenestrated capillaries which is probably related to intracerebral neurotransmission only.
High affinity somatostatin receptors have been measured in postmortem brains from 18 neurologically asymptomatic patients (mean age: 67 years) using the stable somatostatin analog 125I-204-090, DPhe-Cys-Tyr-DTrp-Lys-Thr-Cys-Thr(ol), as radioligand. In homogenates from human frontal cortex, high affinity (Kd = 0.52 nM; Bmax = 557 fmol/mg protein) receptors with pharmacological specificity for somatostatin, [D-Trp8]somatostatin and somatostatin-28 were found. The CNS distribution of these receptors was studied by autoradiography. Somatostatin receptors were distributed in varying densities throughout the whole brain. High concentrations are found in all cortical layers, the deeper layers (V-VI) being usually more dense than the superficial layers (I-III). The limbic system is heavily labeled, in particular hippocampus (CA1, dentate gyrus), most of the nuclei of the amygdala, and the habenula. Also parts of the basal ganglia are very rich in somatostatin receptors: the nucleus caudatus as well as the nucleus accumbens are very dense, whereas the globus pallidus is virtually unlabeled. Interestingly, significant amounts of somatostatin receptors are found in the human cerebellum, which is devoid of endogenous somatostatin. Other discrete areas of the CNS are enriched with somatostatin receptors: locus coeruleus, tuberal nuclei of the hypothalamus, claustum, tuberculum olfactorium as well as spinal trigeminal nucleus and substantia gelatinosa of the spinal cord. The substantia innominata is poor in somatostatin receptors. In general there is a good correlation in the distribution of somatostatin receptors in the human and rat brain and there is a reasonable correlation with endogenous somatostatin levels in human brain tissue, particularly in the larger structures. The very high density and the specific localization of somatostatin receptors in strategic key points in the CNS such as cortex, basal ganglia, limbic system and substantia gelatinosa suggests an important role of somatostatin in cognitive, sensory and extrapyramidal motor functions. The significance of somatostatin receptors in the human cerebellum remains to be elucidated.
In rat L5 dorsal root ganglia 50% of neurons contained arginine vasopressin-like immunoreactivity and 38% oxytocin-like immunoreactivity, the oxytocin entirely coexisting with the arginine vasopressin. Staining of alternate mirror-image sections with RT97 (an antibody to neurofilament protein, and a marker for large light neurons) and with arginine vasopressin antiserum showed that the two were entirely complementary, thus establishing arginine vasopressin as a marker for all small dark neurons. Mirror-image staining also showed that neurons containing substance P-like immunoreactivity and those containing fluoride-resistant acid phosphatase activity were each contained within the arginine vasopressin-positive population. Arginine vasopressin-like immunoreactivity was axonally transported in the dorsal root and (in greater quantity) in sciatic nerve. Arginine vasopressin-like immunoreactivity was present also in laminae I and II of the dorsal horn of the spinal cord and this reactivity was absent in animals which had been treated neonatally with capsaicin, suggesting that it was contained in primary afferent terminals. These results are discussed in terms of their implications for the classification of primary afferent neurons and of a possible physiological role for arginine vasopressin in these neurons.
The destruction of the hypothalamic ventromedial nucleus, which contains a group of substance P-like immunoreactive neurons, resulted in a marked ipsilateral reduction of these fibers in the medial preoptic area. To test if and to what extent the substance P-like immunoreactive neurons in the ventromedial nucleus project to the medial preoptic area, we applied a sensitive double-labeling method capable of detecting substance P-like immunoreactivity in neurons retrogradely labeled with biotin-wheat germ agglutinin following injection of the tracer in the medial preoptic area. The appearance of many double-labeled cells in the hypothalamic ventromedial nucleus provides strong evidence for the existence of a prominent substance P containing pathway from the ventromedial nucleus to the medial preoptic area. A few doubled-labeled cells were also seen in the lateral hypothalamus, which therefore seems to be an additional source of substance P-like immunoreactive fibers in the medial preoptic area.
The current penetration of psychology, psychiatry, and sociology by neurobiologists is traced from its slow inception in the nineteenth century to the exponential explosion of information in recent decades, which has shown that behavior is a biosocial phenomenon, resulting from interactions between the brain and the environment. Therefore, to exclude either from the equation is to invite error.
If non-material mental events, such as the intention to carry out an action, are to have an effective action on neural events in the brain, it has to be at the most subtle and plastic level of these events. In the first stage of our enquiry an introduction to conventional synaptic theory leads on to an account of the manner of operation of the ultimate synaptic units. These units are the synaptic boutons that, when excited by an all-or-nothing nerve impulse, deliver the total contents of a single synaptic vesicle, not regularly, but probabilistically. This quantal emission of the synaptic transmitter molecules (about 5000-10 000) is the elementary unit of the transmission process from one neuron to another. In the second stage this refined physiological analysis leads on to an account of the ultrastructure of the synapse, which gives clues as to the manner of its unitary probabilistic operation. The essential feature is that the effective structure of each bouton is a paracrystalline presynaptic vesicular grid with about 50 vesicles, which acts probabilistically in vesicular (quantal) release. In the third stage it is considered how a non-material mental event, such as an intention to move, could influence the subtle probabilistic operations of synaptic boutons. On the biological side, attention is focused on the paracrystalline presynaptic vesicular grids as the targets for non-material mental events. On the physical side, attention is focused on the probabilistic fields of quantum mechanics which carry neither mass nor energy, but which nevertheless can exert effective action at microsites. The new light on the mind-brain problem came from the hypothesis that the non-material mental events, the 'World 2' of Popper, relate to the neural events of the brain (the 'World 1' of matter and energy) by actions in conformity with quantum theory. This hypothesis that mental events act on probabilistic synaptic events in a manner analogous to the probability fields of quantum mechanics seems to open up an immense field of scientific investigation both in quantum physics and in neuroscience.



Space motion sickness has become an operational concern in manned space flight. Considerable evidence exists that head movements in free fall, especially pitch movements, are provocative until adaptation occurs (3,4,8,9,11,17,18,22,26). The question arises whether space motion sickness is an unique nosological entity or is due to body movements in a nonterrestrial force environment, a force environment for which the body's dynamic sensory-motor adaptions to 1 G are no longer appropriate (14,16,18-21). To evaluate this issue, we had subjects make controlled head movements during exposure to high gravitoinertial force levels, 1.8-2.0 G, in parabolic flight maneuvers. Head movements in pitch with eyes open were most evocative of motion sickness, yaw movements with eyes covered were least provocative. This pattern is identical to that which occurs when the same types of head movements are made in the free fall phase of parabolic maneuvers (17,18). It appears that space motion sickness is the consequence of prolonged exposure to a non-terrestrial force background rather than of exposure to free fall per se.
Conduction velocities of so called A fibers in the bullfrog's sciatic-peroneal nerve were studied by means of a collision neurography in which a submaximal shock to the distal part of the nerve was used to block descending impulses from a supramaximal shock delivered to the proximal two parts of the same nerve respectively. The onset latency of the response to stimulation delivered to the proximal part was almost unchangeable within a certain range of the stimulus intensity of the distal part and fell into 3 classes, and then conduction velocities of so called A fibers were divided into 3 groups. These findings were in good agreement with those obtained by Erlanger and Gasser (1937) using monophasic recording. On the other hand, the distribution of the external diameter of myelinated nerve fibers examined was unimodal. It may depend on the change in threshold due to stimulation through fluid electrodes that the onset latency of the response of a nerve trunk was divided into 3 classes.



Antisera against neuropeptide Y, [Met]enkephalin and bombesin were used for characterizing the immunoreactive material in subcellular fractions of bovine adrenal medulla. Neuropeptide Y was identified by high performance liquid chromatography and by immunoblotting. Subcellular fractionation established that neuropeptide Y is present in chromaffin granules. During stimulation of the adrenal it is released concomitantly with catecholamines. The soluble proteins of chromaffin granules contain 1.9 micrograms neuropeptide Y/mg protein which gives 429 copies of neuropeptide Y for a single granule. In two-dimensional immunoblots two peptides of the same molecular size, but with differing pI (6.4 and 7.3) react with the antiserum against neuropeptide Y. There was no evidence for the presence of a larger neuropeptide Y precursor in chromaffin granules. On the other hand, larger enkephalin-containing peptides could be detected by immunoblotting. The subcellular distribution of these enkephalin precursors differed. The larger peptides (23.3 and 18.2 kD) were more concentrated in lighter granules when compared to the smaller precursors (12.6 and 8.6 kD) which is consistent with proteolytic processing of these peptides during granule maturation. An antiserum against bombesin reacts in immunoblots with the chromogranin B family. This study further illustrates that chromaffin granules contain a complex mixture of neuropeptide-immunoreactive material. The combination of immunoblotting with subcellular fractionation appears as a useful tool to characterize these peptides and their precursors.
A combination of biochemical, physiological and electropharmacological methods was employed to examine the occurrence of neuropeptide Y and the pre- and postjunctional effects of this peptide on sympathetic neuromuscular transmission in the mouse vas deferens. This tissue had a high content of neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactive material, suggesting a dense innervation by neuropeptide Y-containing nerve fibres. Addition of neuropeptide Y at concentrations from 5 X 10(-9) to 5 X 10(-7) M induced both pre- and postjunctional effects in vitro. Neuropeptide Y per se induced a rise in the resting tension, and &quot;instantly&quot; potentiated the contractile effects of exogenous noradrenaline and of the stable adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) analogue, alpha,beta-methylene ATP. Neuropeptide Y reduced the secretion of [3H]noradrenaline evoked by electrical nerve stimulation, and selectively depressed the stimulus-evoked, but not the spontaneously occurring excitatory junction potentials in smooth muscle cells. Further, neuropeptide Y reduced the amplitudes of the twitch contractions evoked by electrical field stimulation with short stimulus trains at 10 Hz, and also (although to a smaller extent) the delayed contractile response to longer trains of nerve stimuli. The pre- and postjunctional effects of neuropeptide Y were not changed by alpha- or beta-adrenoceptor blocking agents, or by tachyphylaxis to the effects of ATP, or by the calcium channel blocker nifedipine. In conclusion: sympathetic neuromuscular transmission in the mouse vas deferens may be mediated not only by noradrenaline and ATP, but also by neuropeptide Y.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Previous reports have indicated that pyramidal cells in the developing rat hippocampal formation are not destroyed by intraventricular or intraperitoneal administration of kainic acid. We examined the neurotoxic properties of kainic acid and ibotenic acid following intrahippocampal injection in neonatal rats and found significant pyramidal cell death following injection of 1.0 microgram kainic acid in 6, 7 and 9-day-old pups. At doses 2.5 or five times this amount, significant pyramidal cell loss was obtained in 5-day-old rats as well. The susceptibility of pyramidal neurons to kainic acid increased as a function of age. The developing hippocampus was considerably more vulnerable to ibotenic acid compared with kainic acid, in contrast to the order of potency reported in adult rats. The increased sensitivity of CA3 pyramidal cells parallels the development of the mossy fiber innervation to the dendrites of these cells supporting the twofold mechanism suggested by Coyle for kainic acid neurotoxicity; that is, a direct cytotoxic action via postsynaptic receptors as well as increased sensitivity due to the presence of excitatory inputs.
The action of morphine, applied either iontophoretically (40-200 nA balanced current) or systemically (5-10 mg/kg, intraperitoneally) to rat cortical neurons, was investigated in vivo, using intracellular electrodes. Morphine increased the apparent input resistance and increased the number of both spontaneous and evoked action potentials. Several cells, which normally generated single spikes, generated bursting potentials; neurons with bursting activity increased their activity. Naloxone, iontophoretically or systemically applied, did not reverse or prevent the morphine-induced excitation. The iontophoretic administration of cadmium suggested that the effects of morphine were due, at least in part, to a postsynaptic site of action. It is suggested that the increase of cellular excitability induced by morphine could contribute to its production of seizures in cortex.
In this study peripheral nerves from flexor digitorum longus, (alien nerve) as well as the deep branch of the muscle's own lateral popliteal nerve were cut and connected to the distal stump of the lateral popliteal nerve. Extensor digitorum longus and tibialis anterior muscles then became reinnervated to a similar extent by either nerve, showing no preference for its own nerve. A significant proportion of the endplates in these muscles remained permanently supplied by more than one axon, and a proportion of the muscle fibres was supplied by both nerves. No ectopic endplates were formed on fast muscle fibres. The same two nerves were also connected to the slow soleus muscle and this muscle became preferentially reinnervated by the nerve to flexor digitorum longus. In contrast to fast muscles, endplates of soleus muscle fibres were only rarely contacted by more than one axon, and ectopic endplates were often found in this muscle. In both types of muscles that had an excess of motor nerves, extensive sprouting persisted for many months. Thus, identical motor nerves induce different patterns of innervation in slow and fast muscles, and muscle fibres do not show a preference for their own nerve.
Immunocytochemically labeled cells containing the enzyme aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase were localized in the brain of rat embryos at gestational age E15-E19. Cell groups that contained aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase but lacked either the enzyme tyrosine hydroxylase or the indolamine serotonin were referred to as &quot;D&quot; groups. Anatomical landmarks, cytoarchitectonic structure and histochemical staining for acetylcholinesterase were used to delineate the position of &quot;D&quot; groups. In the E15 embryo three &quot;D&quot; groups existed. The first to appear, named D1, was located in the spinal cord and had been demonstrated before. A large &quot;D&quot; cell cluster was found in the walls of the central forebrain deep to the hypothalamic sulcus. This group distributed dorsally in the ventral dorsal thalamic region and ventrally in the dorsal hypothalamus. The rostral-most &quot;D&quot; group, D14, occurred in the ventral telencephalon just medial to fibers of the nigrostriatal projection. D14 was the smallest of the early groups. In E16 and E17 embryos dorsal di- and mesencephalic &quot;D&quot; groups were first detected. During the course of ontogeny a considerable increase of immunoreactive cells occurred and segregation of the large central forebrain cluster into several rostrally and laterally distributed &quot;D&quot; groups took place. Some &quot;D&quot; groups that occur in the adult brain were not present in the E19 embryo. This study provides a first report of the localization of several unique cell groups in the brain of rat embryos and their appearance at different stages of gestation. It also gives further support to the notion that variations of aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase staining intensities may be characteristic of different monoamine neurons.

Seizures produced by pilocarpine given i.p. to rats provide an animal model for studying the initiation, spread and generalisation of convulsive activity within the forebrain. Pilocarpine, 380 mg/kg, produces a sequence of behavioural and electroencephalographic alterations indicative of motor limbic seizures and status epilepticus, which is followed by widespread damage to the limbic forebrain resembling that occurring subsequent to prolonged intractable seizures. Microinjections of a selective antagonist at the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor, (+/-)-2-amino-7-phosphonoheptanoate, into the substantia nigra pars reticulata, bilaterally, protects against the behavioural, electrographic and morphological features of seizures produced by pilocarpine, 380 mg/kg, with an ED50 of 0.0007 mumol (0.0004-0.0011). Microinjections of (+/-)-2-amino-7-phosphonoheptanoate, 0.005 or 0.01 mumol, into the substantia nigra pars compacta or into the dorsal part of mid-anterior striatum do not modify the electrographic and morphological sequelae of pilocarpine, 380 mg/kg. In rats pretreated with microinjections of N-methyl-D-aspartate into the substantia nigra pars reticulata, a non-convulsive dose of pilocarpine, 100 mg/kg, results in recurrent motor limbic seizures and status epilepticus. The ED50 of N-methyl-D-aspartate for the generation of seizures after pilocarpine, 100 mg/kg, is 0.0014 mumol (0.001-0.0019). Electrographic monitoring shows a pattern and sequence of evolution of convulsant activity within the hippocampus and cortex similar to that produced with pilocarpine, 380 mg/kg, alone. Morphological examination of brains from rats treated with N-methyl-D-aspartate in the substantia nigra pars reticulata and subsequently given pilocarpine, 100 mg/kg, which underwent status epilepticus, reveals widespread damage to the amygdala, thalamus, olfactory cortex, substantia nigra, neocortex, and hippocampus. Microinjections of N-methyl-D-aspartate, 0.002 mumol, into either the substantia nigra pars compacta or dorsal striatum, bilaterally, do not augment seizures produced by pilocarpine, 100 mg/kg. The results indicate that the threshold for pilocarpine-induced seizures in rats is modulated by excitatory amino acid neurotransmission within the substantia nigra pars reticulata.
Visual cortical cells respond optimally to an oriented bar moving either in one unique direction or in directions 180 degrees apart. Length-dependence of this direction selectivity was investigated in the striate cortex of lightly anaesthetized cats. Approaching half of all complex cells showed some lability in their direction selectivity. The incidence was highest in standard and intermediate (length-summating) complex cells, less amongst special complex cells (those with only localized summation) and least amongst end-stopped cells, especially those of the special category. By contrast, direction selectivity of simple cells was length-independent. No correlation between a cell's overt selectivity (i.e. bidirectional, direction-biased or direction-selective) and its lability with bar length or polarity of contrast (light/dark) was evident. Moreover, since individual neurons amongst a population of complex cells could exhibit either increase, decrease, or no change of direction selectivity with length, it is unlikely that length per se can be coded by direction-selectivity.
The phosphorylation-dephosphorylation, in the presence of adenosine 5'-[gamma-32P]triphosphate, of a polypeptide of apparent molecular mass 53,000 has been compared in head homogenates of wild type and memory mutant dunceM11 strains of Drosophila melanogaster. In both strains, labelling of the 53 kilodalton protein required exogenous adenosine 3',5'-phosphate (cAMP), but in dunceM11 cAMP at higher concentration (above approximately 3 microM) caused the rapid disappearance of the label. This differential dephosphorylation can be attributed to the lack of a cAMP-specific phosphodiesterase isoenzyme in the mutant. Several lines of evidence indicate that the 53 kilodalton protein is identical with the regulatory subunit of cAMP-dependent protein kinase. The findings suggest that in the mutant's nerve cells the state of phosphorylation of the regulatory subunit of cAMP-dependent protein kinase is altered, which may contribute to the biochemical disorder leading to the memory deficit.
The sensitivity of intracerebellar nuclei neurones to pulse applications of L-aspartate, L-glutamate, N-methyl-D,L-aspartate and quisqualate was tested in rat cerebellar slices maintained in vitro. The responses of the nuclear neurones to the four agonists consisted of a transient and dose-dependent increase in their firing of simple spikes. When suprathreshold currents were used, quisqualate induced the highest increase in the spike discharge frequency of the cells. Quisqualate mediated responses were unaffected by steady applications of 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate, whereas the sensitivity of the responses induced by the three other agonists was in the order N-methyl-D,L-aspartate, L-aspartate, L-glutamate. When the superfusing solution was devoid of Mg2+ ions, N-methyl-D,L-aspartate and L-aspartate mediated responses were much potentiated, while quisqualate induced responses were not enhanced. In such a medium, L-glutamate elicited responses were more or less potentiated depending on cells. These results suggest that rat intracerebellar nuclei neurones bear both N-methyl-D-aspartate and non-N-methyl-D-aspartate, probably quisqualate, receptors, and that L-aspartate and L-glutamate have a mixed action upon both types. L-Aspartate preferentially activates N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, whereas L-glutamate predominantly acts via non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. Furthermore, the potency of L-glutamate in activating N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors appears to vary as a function of the cells.
An investigation has been made into the mode and specificity of action of ventral medullary pressor neurones. These were activated by microinjections of excitant amino acid into the ventral brain surface of chloralose-anaesthetized, artificially ventilated cats, and a number of autonomic responses were measured. Indirect assessment of cardiac output (by CO2 delivery to the lungs) suggested that it was either unchanged or fell during pressor responses. The inference that activating the pressor neurones caused vasoconstriction was confirmed directly for hindlimb and mesenteric vascular beds, by a rise in inflow pressure when they were perfused at constant flow. Sympathetic activity also increased in cervical, splanchnic and inferior cardiac nerves. Bradycardia often (but not always) accompanied pressor responses, but this was abolished by vagotomy, although not by cutting the sinus and aortic nerves. In vagotomized cats, tachycardia could be produced during pressor responses even after either bilateral adrenalectomy or removal of the stellate ganglia, indicating both direct sympathetic drive to the heart and release of adrenal catecholamines. Plasma adrenaline levels were measured and found to increase by up to 20.2 times control values, plasma noradrenaline up to 12.6 times, and dopamine by a smaller amount. Activating ventral medullary pressor neurones appeared to have no significant action on pupils, nictitating membranes or piloerection. In three adrenalectomized, vagotomized cats, only small, inconsistent effects were measured on intestinal motility following pressor neurone excitation. However, large electrodermal responses could be evoked from the ventral medulla, but from a distinct area medial to the pressor neurones.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A study has been made of the ventral surface of the medulla, to identify neurones with cardiovascular and respiratory functions. Experiments were performed on chloralose-anaesthetized, artificially ventilated cats. Ventral medullary neurones were stimulated by microinjections of excitant amino acid (which selectively activates cell bodies), and responses measured in blood pressure, heart rate, renal sympathetic and phrenic nerve activity. A small region of ventral medulla was found, corresponding to the &quot;glycine-sensitive area&quot;, from which large increases in blood pressure and renal nerve activity were evoked by amino acid injections. More caudally, another cell group was localized lateral to the hypoglossal nerve roots, and these neurones depressed blood pressure and renal nerve activity. Two distinct regions were found to increase phrenic nerve activity: rostral to the pressor neurones, encroaching on the trapezoid body (roughly corresponding to area &quot;M&quot;), and a caudal group, close to the depressor neurones (i.e. lateral to the hypoglossal roots). No respiratory response could be evoked from medial to the hypoglossal roots (area &quot;L&quot;) and stimulation of neurones in area &quot;S&quot; generally depressed phrenic activity. Neurones with cardiovascular and respiratory actions could be distinguished anatomically. Their locations have been mapped and compared with previous studies.
The eyes of weakly electric gymnotid fish are poorly developed in comparison to those of most diurnal teleosts. The tectum and pretectum, despite their usual association with the visual system, are large and well differentiated in gymnotids. We have studied retinal projections in gymnotids in order to define the visual components of the mesencephalon and diencephalon and thus allow comparison with other teleosts in which retinofugal fibers have been extensively mapped. Retinofugal projections reported in this work are based on the anterograde transport of conjugated wheat germ agglutinin horseradish peroxidase, following injection into the posterior chamber of the eye of Apteronotus leptorhynchus (brown ghost knife fish). The results show a remarkable similarity to those of non-electroreceptive teleosts. Although the optic nerves appear to cross completely at the optic chiasm, close scrutiny shows a slender recrossing fascicle which continues from the contralateral tractus opticus medialis through the rostroventral hypothalamus to reach the ipsilateral side, providing a scanty projection to the n. opticus hypothalamicus, n. anterior periventricularis, n. dorsolateralis thalami, and n. commissurae posterioris. A few fibers ascend via the tractus opticus dorsomedialis to the rostral dorsomedial part of the stratum fibrosum et griseum superficiale of the ipsilateral tectum. The main body of the retinal projections in Apteronotus are to the following contralateral target areas: preoptic area, n. opticus hypothalamicus, n. anterior periventricularis, n. dorsolateralis thalami, n. pretectalis, area pretectalis, n. corticalis, n. commissurae posterioris, n. geniculatus lateralis, area and n. ventrolateralis thalami, caudal dorsal tegmentum and the tectum opticum. The retinotectal projection is modest in comparison to that of more vision dependent fish and terminates mainly in the upper half of the stratum fibrosum et griseum superficiale; hardly any retinal fibers reach the caudalmost tectum.
Golgi, Nissl, Bielschowsky and cholinesterase techniques have been used to analyze the optic tectum of the weakly electric teleost fish Eigenmannia virescens and Apteronotus leptorhynchus. Six layers are readily distinguished: a fairly thick stratum marginale, a narrow stratum opticum and stratum fibrosum et griseum superficiale, a well-developed stratum griseum centrale, a stratum album centrale and a compact stratum periventriculare. Fifty-six neuronal types are present. In regard to comparative aspects of tectal organization, it became apparent that although most neuronal types are similar to those reported in other teleostean fish, there are certain obvious differences such as: pyramidal cell somata not confined to stratum fibrosum et griseum superficiale, but also clustered in the adjacent stratum opticum, presenting stratified or diffuse basilar dendritic arbors; and a change from vertical to oblique and almost horizontal neuronal orientation in the ventral and caudal tectum. The presence of pyramidal cells with aligned and misaligned apical and basal dendritic fields. A cell of stratum griseum centrale with an ascending axon to stratum opticum. A special projection type of fusiform cell of stratum griseum centrale, with an efferent axon of somatic origin. A cell rich stratum griseum centrale, with a wider variety of multipolar and bipolar cell population than reported in other teleosts. Fourteen types of pyriform cells are present, four of which are efferent. Our observations are suggestive of regional differences in regard to the caudalmost tectum in Apteronotus: presumably this is related to the extremely sparse retinal input to this part of the tectum. A close functional correlation has been found between some multipolar and pyriform cells identified in our material with similar cells reported by Rose and Heiligenberg as multisensory cells, following recordings and horseradish peroxidase fillings of these cells. Based on the observation of patchy torus semicircularis input to stratum fibrosum et griseum superficiale, disjunct from the retinal input to this layer, it is proposed that perhaps this arrangement is the result of competition for synaptic targets during development.
Monoclonal antibodies were raised to membranes of hypoglossal nuclei from normal human post-mortem brain. Two of these clones were recloned to yield antibodies ES.18 and ES.19. Antibody ES.18 stained some, but not all, neuronal perikarya in the medulla oblongata and other brain areas. Neurons stained by this antibody did not have a common neurotransmitter or physiological function, although they tended to be large. Perikarya in the basal forebrain nucleus from a case of Alzheimer-type dementia were stained much more intensely by ES.18 than were these perikarya in a control brain. Antibody ES.19 did not stain neuronal perikarya but stained glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive processes below the pia, in the subependymal layer and in the molecular layer of the cerebellum of control and Alzheimer brains. This antibody also stained the numerous glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive astrocytes in Alzheimer cerebral cortex, but did not stain glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive astrocytes in the white matter of brains from controls or cases of Alzheimer-type dementia. The staining pattern of ES.19 suggests that fibrous astrocytes in Alzheimer cerebral cortex are antigenically different from fibrous astrocytes in white matter.
Since enkephalin- and substance P-like immunoreactive materials have been identified in preganglionic terminals of the avian ciliary ganglion, we tested the effects of enkephalin and substance P directly on chick ciliary ganglion neurons in dissociated cell culture. Under these conditions the neurons form cholinergic synapses with each other that are spontaneously active. Both peptides modulate properties of membrane components associated with synaptic transmission between the neurons. Enkephalin causes a 60% reduction in the mean amplitude of the excitatory synaptic potentials, and the effect appears to be presynaptic in origin: enkephalin does not alter acetylcholine sensitivity on the neurons, but does inhibit Ca2+ influx as reflected by a 38% shortening of the Ca2+ component of the action potential. Both the reduction in synaptic potential amplitude and the shortening of the Ca2+ action potential produced by enkephalin are blocked by naloxone. Substance P, on the other hand, has no effect on Ca2+ action potentials but does reduce the time course of acetylcholine responses in the neurons by a mechanism consistent with enhanced receptor desensitization. Decay of the acetylcholine voltage response in the absence of substance P is described by a single exponential process with a time constant of 4-5 s. Coapplication of acetylcholine and substance P results in a second exponential decay process with a time constant of about 1 s that appears after a 200-400 ms lag period. Preincubation with substance P alone does not decrease the peak voltage response or shorten the lag, suggesting that either agonist or activated receptor is necessary for the substance P effect. These findings suggest modulatory roles for the peptides in ganglionic transmission.
Efferent connections to midbrain and thalamus from portions of the cerebellar fastigial nucleus were investigated using autoradiographic techniques. Bipolar stimulating electrodes were placed in the fastigial nucleus of anesthetized beagles and the area which produced maximal increases in blood pressure and heart rate was localized in each dog. A mixture of [3H]leucine and [3H]proline (4:1) was injected into that area and autoradiograms were prepared. Injections filled the rostral and various parts of the caudal fastigial nucleus. The rostral-caudal extent of injection sites were mapped in the horizontal plane from sequential coronal, thionin-stained sections and &quot;primary&quot; and &quot;secondary&quot; injection zones were defined according to specific criteria. Labeled axons reached the mesencephalon via the contralateral uncinate fasiculus. Ascending fibers assembled in a diffuse contingent at the prerubral level adjacent to the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray. The heaviest projections were contralateral to the injection site, but ipsilateral terminals were observed as well. In the midbrain, axons entered the contralateral and ipsilateral superior colliculus to branch repeatedly and terminate in the deep and intermediate layers. Additional terminals were observed bilaterally in the nuclei of the posterior commissure and pretectal areas at the midbrain-diencephalic junction. In the thalamus, labeled axons formed into three groups which terminated in: the contralateral paraventricular complex and medial dorsal nucleus; the contralateral central medial, paracentral, parafasicular and central lateral nuclei, and the contralateral ventral medial and ventral lateral nuclei. There was a sparse projection to the ipsilateral ventral lateral nucleus. The contralateral projection to the ventral medial and ventral lateral nuclei was marked by dense clusters of label ventral to the internal medullary lamina extending, in the dorsal ventral lateral nucleus, to its rostral pole. Projections to specific somesthetic thalamus or the hypothalamus were not observed. These ascending projections in the canine brain generally conform to those described in other nonprimate mammals. The fastigial nucleus presumably provides information concerning equilibrium and body proprioception to the superior colliculus and to thalamic nuclei including both specific motor relay and &quot;nonspecific&quot; midline and intralaminar nuclei, much the same as reported in the cat. The projection to the ventral medial and ventral lateral thalamic nuclei terminate in areas known to participate in the control of axial and proximal limb muscle activity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)



Episodes of emesis unaccompanied by the usual prodromal signs of motion sickness have been reported by astronauts in the space shuttle program (10). Such reports have raised the issue whether space motion sickness has different characteristics from terrestrial motion sickness. We present evidence here from parabolic flight experiments that sudden vomiting can occur in response to a provocative vestibular stimulus even when no premonitory symptoms are being experienced. Accordingly, in chronic exposure conditions, the absence of prominent signs or symptoms of motion sickness does not necessarily mean an absence of sensitization.
Removal of the main olfactory bulbs in rats has been shown to alter neuronal function in brain areas involved in emotional regulation and homeostasis. These neuronal alterations result in maladaptive behavioral patterns and elevated plasma corticosterone that are suggestive of the symptom profile of patients with primary unipolar depression. Moreover, the endocrine and behavioral deficits of bulbectomized rats are reversed by the chronic administration of drugs that reverse the symptoms of depression in people when given chronically. However, the therapeutic improvements seen in patients with depression are not directly due to molecules of the antidepressant drug but rather to some relatively long-lasting compensatory change induced in the neuronal substrate by the drug. The present research demonstrates that the reversal of the olfactory bulb lesion deficits following chronic antidepressant drug administration in rats is not due to molecules of the drug per se but rather to some drug-induced change in the neuronal substrate that continues for at least 5 days after the last dose of drug. These endocrine, behavioral, and pharmacological similarities suggest that the study of rats with olfactory bulb ablation may make significant contributions to the understanding of the neuroscience of primary unipolar depression in humans.
Eye cups from stage 14-28 (E2 to E5) chick and quail embryos consisting of neural retina, lens, and vitreous body were cultured for 1 or 2 days. These eyes expanded by proliferation of the retinal cells and the surface areas of the retinae increased several-fold. The area covered by ganglion cells and axons also expanded in vitro. [3H]Thymidine labeling showed extensive proliferation of the neuroepithelial cells including the formation of new ganglion cells. Culturing eyes from embryos before stage 17 results, as in vivo, in the generation of the first ganglion cells of the retina, but unlike in the in vivo situation, the outgrowing axons always formed a random fiber net in the central portion of the retina. A defined axonal pattern identical to the in vivo developed only in specimens from embryos of stage 17 and older. Some aberrant axons, however, were also observed at the retinal periphery in specimens from embryos of more advanced stages (20-24), but only during the second day of culturing. Axons in retinae from embryos of stages 23 to 26 heading toward the optic fissure often crossed the fissure and, in contrast to the situation in vivo, invaded the opposite retinal side. These axons of wrong polarity followed the pathways of axons growing centripetally but in reverse direction. This suggests that the polarity of growing nerve fibers and their course are determined by different factors. Culturing the eyes of embryos from stages 20 to 25 in the presence of antibodies showed that the antibodies penetrated the entire retina with 6 hr. Neither anti-N-CAM nor the T-61 antibody--both recognizing membrane proteins of retinal cells--affected the growth of the eyes in vitro. The development of the axonal pattern in vitro was not affected by incubation with N-CAM-antibodies at concentrations up to 500 micron/ml, whereas the T-61 antibody which is known to block neurite extention in vitro (S. Henke-Fahle, W. Reckhaus, and R. Babiel (l984). &quot;Developmental Neuroscience: Physiological, Pharmacological, and Clinical Aspects,&quot; pp. 393-398. Elsevier, Amsterdam/New York) showed inhibition of axonal growth in retina cultures at 50 micron/ml. These results indicate that the eye cultures can be used as a test system for antibodies against antigens which could be involved in axon extension and neurite pathfinding in situ.
The current psychobiology and the therapeutic principles of anxiety states have been reviewed. The seprohippocampal system probably operates as the organ of match-mismatch comparator. A dysfunction of this internal comparator could possibly be the source of anxiety. There seem to be two distinct psychobiologic models for pain disorder and chronic anxiety state. The therapeutic responses of panic disorder to TCA and MAOI and the response to the chronic anxiety state to benzodiazepines supports the classification ot two distinct syndromes. However different provocative challenge tests have not clearly delineated the role of nor-adrenergic (NF) mechanisms in panic disorder and benzodiazepine receptor theory for chronic anxiety state. Challenge tests with receptor specific pharmacologic agents may reveal the molecular basis of these disorders unlike the tests with non-specific agents like lactate and caffeine.
Anatomical studies in the visual cortex have shown the presence of long-range horizontal connections with clustered axonal collaterals, suggesting interactions over distances of several millimeters. We used cross-correlation analysis in cat striate cortex to detect interactions between cells over comparable distances. Using one cell as a reference, we recorded from other cells with a second electrode at varying distances and looked for correlated firing between the two recording sites. This technique allowed us to combine a physiological measure of the strength and type of connection between cells with a characterization of their receptive field properties. The observed interactions were excitatory, and extended over horizontal distances of several millimeters. Furthermore, the interactions were between orientation columns of like specificity, resulting in a waxing and waning in the strength of interaction as the electrodes passed through different orientation columns. We studied relationships between strength of correlation and other receptive field properties and found a tendency for facilitatory interactions between cells sharing the same eye preference. A large proportion of our correlations was due to common input. This feature, and the similarity of interactions between cells in the same column with the reference cell, suggest a high degree of interconnectivity between and within the columns. As the distance between the two electrodes increased, the overlap of the receptive fields of the cells participating in the interactions gradually diminished. At the furthest distances recorded, the cell pairs had nonoverlapping receptive fields separated by several degrees. The distribution and range of these interactions corresponded to the clustering and extent of the horizontal connections observed anatomically.
An interactive microcomputer system has been developed for the quantitative analysis of Golgi-impregnated neuronal morphology (GINM). The system uses commercially available hardware: a 48K RAM microcomputer (Apple II), a TV monitor (NEC), an optical microscope (Reichert Biovar) with a camera lucida and a specially developed wheel attached to the focus adjustment knob and to a digital planimeter (Tamaya), allowing one to obtain the value of the z-coordinate. The x- and y-coordinates are obtained using the movement of a point plotted by the computer on the TV monitor. This point is superimposed upon the GINM point to be codified employing the camera lucida. The x- and y-coordinates are acquired automatically while the variations of the z-coordinate are introduced by the computer keyboard. The three-dimensional coordinates of the selected GINM points and different codes are stored by the computer in a six-dimensional array. The software is written in BASIC. The results demonstrate that the digitization and quantitative analysis of GINM can be achieved with reasonably inexpensive equipment.
A technique has been developed for recording single unit afferent activity from mesenteric nerves in isolated segments of rat distal ileum in vitro. The preparation consists of a 3-cm segment of ileum, containing a single neurovascular bundle, held horizontally in an organ bath. One end of the segment is attached to a tension transducer to record changes in longitudinal tension of the gut muscle and the other is connected to a pressure transducer to record changes in intra-luminal pressure. Electromyographic activity of the smooth muscle is recorded using glass-insulated tungsten microelectrodes inserted in the wall of the gut. Afferent nerve activity is recorded with a monopolar platinum wire electrode from filaments of the mesenteric nerves that run between the artery and vein supplying the segment. This preparation permits the detailed analysis of the electrical activity of intestinal afferent nerve fibres correlated with mechanical and chemical events occurring naturally in the gut or imposed experimentally on it.
Myasthenia gravis, a chronic neuromuscular disease, results in weakness of striated voluntary muscles. The muscles involved and the degree of weakness vary from patient to patient. Nursing care of the patient with muscle weakness from myasthenia gravis presents a challenge for the neuroscience nurse. Drug therapy and thymectomy treatments are discussed, along with their complications. Nursing interventions for other problems for the myasthenic patient, including impaired breathing patterns, inability to clear the airway, impaired communication, altered nutrition, self-care deficits, and impaired vision are described.
A monoclonal antibody (5F9) against microtubule-associated protein 2 is a selective and sensitive marker for neocortical dendrites in the mouse. The marker stains all dendrites. It affords a particularly comprehensive picture of the patterns of arrangements of apical dendrites which are most intensely stained with this antibody. Dual systems of apical dendrites arise from the polymorphic neurons of layer VI, on the one hand, and the pyramidal neurons of layers II-V, on the other. Terminal arborization of the former is concentrated principally at the interface of layers V and IV, while that of the latter is in the molecular layer. Apical dendrites of both systems are grouped into fascicles. In supragranular layers and in upper layer VI-lower layer V, where apical dendrites are most abundant, the fascicles coalesce into septa. These generate a honeycomb-like pattern, subdividing these cortical levels into columnar spaces of approximately 20-40 micron diameter. At the level of layer IV, where the number of apical dendrites is greatly reduced, the fascicles are isolated bundles. These bundles have the form of circular, elliptical or rectangular columns in the primary somatosensory, temporal and frontal regions, respectively. Those in the barrel field are preferentially concentrated in the sides of barrels and the interbarrel septa. The configurations of the dendritic fascicles, particularly the midcortical bundles, may conform to the spatial configuration of investing axons of interneurons.
The accumulation of 2 postsynaptic proteins--the acetylcholine receptor and acetylcholinesterase, total protein and lactate dehydrogenase levels, and the evolution of the multiple molecular forms of acetylcholinesterase (exhibiting apparent sedimentation coefficients of 17, 13, 11 and 6S) have been examined in aneural cultures of embryonic Torpedo electric organ explanted before, during or after electrocyte differentiation and the onset of synaptogenesis. During electrocyte differentiation in vitro, with explants taken before the 38 mm stage, the relative proportions of the 17, 13 and 11S forms change in vitro as in vivo but the 6S form remains abnormally dominant. In tissue explants taken from 38 to 47 mm stage embryos, the 4 major molecular forms of acetylcholinesterase differentiate in a manner identical to that observed in vivo. In explants taken after the onset of synaptogenesis (55-80 mm stages), the proportions of the acetylcholinesterase forms change as in vivo only during the first week in vitro whilst accumulation is occurring at the normal in vivo rate. The switch to the high acetylcholine receptor and acetylcholinesterase accumulation rate that occurs when synaptogenesis begins in vivo is not observed after any time lag in vitro with tissue explanted before the stage (55 mm) at which synaptogenesis begins. The effects on acetylcholinesterase and acetylcholine receptor accumulation of supplementing the medium with a neural tissue extract are described. The experiments were designed to elucidate the factors and mechanisms that regulate the differentiation and formation of chemical synapses using the electric organ of Torpedo marmorata as a model system. The results demonstrate that the complex changes occurring in the multiple molecular forms of acetylcholinesterase during electrocyte differentiation are not under direct neural control but that the switch to an increased acetylcholinesterase and acetylcholine receptor accumulation rate may be triggered by an external, possible neural factor.
We have recently shown that growth cones isolated from neonatal rat forebrain possess uptake and release mechanisms for the neurotransmitter gamma-aminobutyric acid. About half of the K+-induced release of [3H]gamma-aminobutyric acid from isolated growth cones is dependent on extracellular Ca2+. The remaining component of the [3H]gamma-aminobutyric acid release is unaffected by removal of extracellular Ca2+ and is resistant to blockade by the voltage-sensitive Ca2+-channel blocker methoxyverapamil. In the present series of experiments we have used caffeine to assess the possible role of intracellular stores of Ca2+ in supporting that component of the K+-induced release of [3H]gamma-aminobutyric acid from isolated growth cones that is independent of extracellular Ca2+. We have chosen caffeine because of its well established effect of releasing Ca2+ from smooth endoplasmic reticulum in muscle. We found that caffeine can release [3H]gamma-aminobutyric acid from isolated growth cones. This effect persists in Ca2+-free medium, in the presence of methoxyverapamil and in the absence of Na+. Furthermore, isobutylmethylxanthine could not substitute for caffeine suggesting that the caffeine effect is not due to phosphodiesterase inhibition and the subsequent rise in intracellular cyclic nucleotides. A combination of the mitochondrial poisons, Antimycin A and sodium azide had no effect on the release of [3H]gamma-aminobutyric acid induced either by caffeine or by high K+. We conclude that caffeine causes the release of Ca2+ from a non-mitochondrial store within the growth cone and that this Ca2+ store supports that component of the K+-induced release of [3H]gamma-aminobutyric acid that is independent of extracellular Ca2+.
High affinity uptake, and the distribution of 3H-radiolabelled gamma-aminobutyrate (GABA), cis-3-aminocyclohexanecarboxylic acid, beta-alanine, proline, and leucine have been examined autoradiographically in laminar preparations of the myenteric plexus from the guinea-pig intestine. Following labelling with [3H]proline and [3H]leucine, which are incorporated into neurons, silver grains were concentrated over recognisable perikarya in the ganglia and meshworks of the plexus, whilst [3H]GABA labelled a smaller proportion of neurons and their processes. Specificity of labelling in the sites of [3H]GABA-uptake was established using combinations of labelled and unlabelled GABA, beta-alanine, and cis-3-aminocyclohexanecarboxylic acid, substrates for glial or neuronal high affinity GABA uptake systems. Only myenteric neurons and their processes were labelled significantly by [3H]GABA and its analogue cis-3-[3H]aminocyclohexanecarboxylic acid. Using autoradiographs of laminar preparations and paraffin sections, [3H]GABA labelling was found over nerve fibre bundles that could be traced from their ganglionic origins through the interconnecting meshworks of the myenteric plexus into the innervation of the deep muscular plexus of the circular muscle layer where GABA is evidently concerned with prejunctional modulation of transmitter release. The extensive but selective distribution of [3H]GABA high affinity uptake sites in neural elements of the guinea-pig myenteric plexus is consistent with GABA being an enteric neurotransmitter.
Single C-fibre strength stimuli applied to the sciatic nerve in the decerebrate spinal rat evoke three separate bursts of activity in posterior biceps/semitendinosus flexor alpha motorneurones which are associated with the arrival in the spinal cord of volleys in the A-beta, A-delta and C-afferent fibres. Repetitive stimulation of the sciatic nerve at 1 Hz for 20 s generates a progressive wind-up of response and an after-discharge lasting up to 10 s. Twelve to fourteen days after section of the sciatic nerve, stimuli applied central to the section evoke a larger than normal response in the posterior biceps/semitendinosus flexor motorneurones and repetitive stimulation (1 Hz, 20 s) produces an after-discharge which is four times longer than that produced by stimulation of the intact nerve. In addition to the direct excitatory effects of sciatic nerve stimulation on the flexor motorneurones which lasts for seconds, conditioning stimuli to the sciatic nerve at C-fibre strength (1 Hz, 20 s) produce a facilitation of the flexor reflex evoked by a standard pressure stimulus to the ipsilateral and contralateral toes which lasts for 70 min. However, although the direct excitatory effects of stimulating a sectioned sciatic nerve on the posterior biceps/semitendinosus flexor motorneurones are exaggerated, the facilitation of the cutaneous flexion reflex evoked by stimulating sectioned sciatic nerves (1 Hz, 20 s) only lasts for 17 min. These results show that the mechanism which produces the rapid effects of sciatic nerve stimulation on the flexor reflex circuit can be separated from the mechanism which produces the prolonged facilitation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The serotonin and noradrenaline innervations of the rat oculomotor nucleus were examined by high resolution radioautography after in vivo labeling with tritiated 5-hydroxytryptamine and dopamine, respectively. Noradrenaline as well as serotonin endings (axonal varicosities) pervaded the entire nucleus, but the latter were at least six times more numerous (1.3 X 10(6) per mm3 of tissue) and were often found in the immediate vicinity of neuronal somata and proximal dendrites. The axon terminals of both types were of similar size and exhibited some large dense-cored vesicles in association with aggregated small and clear vesicles. The dense-cored vesicles were, however, more frequent and the content in clear vesicles more pleomorphic in serotonin than noradrenaline endings. In single thin sections, the proportion of noradrenaline and serotonin profiles exhibiting a synaptic junction was relatively small (15%). These were either symmetrical or asymmetrical when made on dendritic branches but invariably symmetrical on spines. In addition, a significant number of serotonin terminals were seen in close apposition or synaptic contact with neuronal perikarya and large dendrites, allowing for a direct, &quot;proximal&quot; action of serotonin. Moreover, many such terminals appeared to be coupled with unlabeled endings of another category, characterized by dispersed, uniformly round and clear synaptic vesicles, providing an alternate route for a proximal effect of serotonin in the oculomotor nucleus. In line with previous investigations on other motor nuclei, these data support the likelihood of a close involvement of both noradrenaline and serotonin in the control of motoneuronal activity.
Acetylcholinesterase is released from both axon terminals and dendrites of nigrostriatal neurons. The relationship of this phenomenon to: (1) activation of receptors, and (2) firing rate, has been examined. In the first series of experiments, apomorphine or acetylcholine were infused into substantiae nigrae of urethane anaesthetized rats, via push-pull cannulae. In the ipsilateral striatum, the release of acetylcholinesterase was modified in a fashion reminiscent of the changes in firing rate induced by these drugs in nigrostriatal cells. Thus, application of acetylcholine into the substantia nigra induced an increase, while apomorphine induced a decrease in the release of acetylcholinesterase from the striatum. However, in the substantia nigra, the release of acetylcholinesterase did not follow this pattern: acetylcholine reduced local release, while apomorphine caused no change. In the second part of this study we studied the relationship between firing rate of nigrostriatal cells and the release of acetylcholinesterase. Two compounds known to block neuronal impulse flow were infused into the substantia nigra. These drugs were tetrodotoxin (a Na+ channel blocker), or gamma-hydroxybutyrate (a drug which blocks impulse flow specifically in dopaminergic cells). Both compounds reduced the release of acetylcholinesterase in the ipsilateral striatum. However, locally in the substantia nigra there was no decrease in release of the enzyme. In fact, following administration of gamma-hydroxybutyrate, there was a large Ca2+ dependent increase in release of acetylcholinesterase in the substantia nigra. These results suggest that release of acetylcholinesterase in the striatum may be linked to the discharge frequency of nigrostriatal neurons. On the other hand, release of acetylcholinesterase from the substantia nigra, which probably occurs from dendrites, is independent of Na+ mediated action potentials. This release may instead be associated with specific dendritic Ca2+ conductances.
To provide parameters for study of the &quot;cholinergic&quot; innervation of a human fetal cerebrum, we have analyzed the prenatal development of histochemical reactivity in the nucleus basalis complex (a magnocellular complex known to contain a high concentration of cholinergic perikarya). Brains from fetuses and premature infants ranging between 8 and 35 weeks of gestation were frozen cut and processed by the thiocholine method for the demonstration of acetylcholinesterase activity. Since no consistent results were obtained with inhibitors on the material younger than 15 weeks, the histochemical reactivity for early stages was expressed as the total cholinesterase reactivity. The first sign of histochemical differentiation of the basal telencephalon is the appearance of a dark cholinesterase reactive &quot;spot&quot; situated between the developing lenticular nucleus and basal telencephalon surface as early as 9 weeks of gestation. The first cholinesterase reactive bundle connects this reactive area (nucleus basalis complex anlage) with the strongly reactive fiber system situated along the dorsal side of the optic tract. During the next &quot;stage&quot; (10.5 weeks), there is a significant increase in the size of the nucleus basalis complex and strongly cholinesterase reactive neuropil occupies the sublenticular, diagonal and septal areas. At this stage we have seen two new cholinesterase-reactive bundles: one well developed cholinesterase reactive fiber stratum approaching (but not penetrating) the neocortical anlage through the external capsule and another minute bundle running towards the medial limbic cortex through the precommissural septum. The supraoptic fiber system can be traced now to the pregeniculate area and the tegmentum. At 15 weeks, the first acetylcholinesterase reactive perikarya appear and the nucleus basalis complex anlage becomes segregated into several strongly reactive territories, corresponding in position to the medial septal, diagonal and basal nuclei as defined on adjacent Nissl stained sections. At this stage, fibers from the nucleus basalis complex enter the &quot;white&quot; matter of frontal, temporal, parietal and occipital parts of the cerebral hemisphere via the external capsule. Between 15 and 18 weeks, acetylcholinesterase fibers spread throughout the &quot;white&quot; matter of the cerebral hemisphere. In the next &quot;stage&quot; (18-22 weeks), strongly reactive fibers can be followed from the nucleus basalis below the putamen and through the external capsule to the transient, synapse-rich subplate zone of frontal, temporal, parietal and occipital cortices.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
By the immunohistofluorescence technique, peripheral nerves of the rat, guinea pig, cat and monkey eye contain a neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactive peptide. A broad distribution of immunoreactive nerve fibers is present in all four animals, innervating tissues of the aqueous humor outflow apparatus, the limbal blood vessels, and uveal blood vessels. A dense plexus of neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactive nerve fibers is present to the ciliary processes. A rich innervation exists to the iris dilator muscle, but that to the iris sphincter is modest. Throughout all regions of the uvea, neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactive nerves are associated closely with melanocytes. When acid extracts of anterior uvea and choroid from rat and guinea pig are analyzed by radioimmunoassay and reverse phase high performance liquid chromatography, the immunoreactive ocular peptide occurs in a single molecular form indistinguishable from porcine neuropeptide Y. The present findings indicate that neuropeptide Y is present in ocular nerves of rat, guinea pig, cat, and monkey. Their distribution, with a few small exceptions, closely parallels that of ocular adrenergic nerves as revealed by histofluorometric techniques. While no ocular effects of neuropeptide Y have been reported to date, its other known biological effects imply potential functions in the eye.
Opioid agonists selectively decrease the duration of the Ca2+ component of the action potential recorded from embryonic dorsal root ganglion neurons in dissociated cell cultures. In contrast, no significant alterations in the action potentials generated by adult dorsal root ganglion neurons in vivo were detected during opioid exposure. In the present study, the perikaryal opioid sensitivity of fetal mouse dorsal root ganglion neurons was analyzed during maturation in organotypic explant cultures. To determine whether spinal cord might influence this sensitivity, neuron perikarya were tested in ganglia grown: (a) in isolation; (b) attached to spinal cord explants; and (c) attached to spinal cord, but decentralized by a dorsal root transection in mature explants 1-2 weeks before the tests. After 2-8 weeks in culture, the duration of the Ba2+-enhanced Ca2+ component of intracellularly recorded action potentials was measured prior to and during bath exposure to the opioid, [D-Ala2, D-Leu5]enkephalin. Sensitive neurons were characterized by a marked, reversible reduction (averaging about 50%) in the duration of the Ca2+ component (which was antagonized by naloxone). The fraction of opioid-sensitive neuron perikarya in dorsal root ganglia grown attached to cord explants was significantly lower (48%) than in ganglia grown isolated (78%) or decentralized in vitro (79%). The mean duration of the Ca2+ component was significantly shorter in ganglion cells which had been grown attached to cord, or subsequently decentralized, compared to cells grown in isolated ganglia (by 24 and 38%, respectively). This difference was even larger in the opioid-insensitive groups. Although opioid-sensitive perikarya in ganglia grown attached to cord had a significantly longer Ba2+-enhanced Ca2+ component than that of insensitive neurons, some of the insensitive perikarya in all 3 types of explant paradigms displayed Ca2+ components which were as prolonged as those of sensitive cells. The results obtained in this study support the hypothesis that the observed decrease in the fraction of opioid-sensitive perikarya during development of fetal mouse dorsal root ganglia is due to regulation by interactions with their central target tissue, the spinal cord. The developmental decrease in the duration of the Ca2+ component of the action potential of these ganglion cells is also enhanced by the presence of the spinal cord. However, regulation of functional opiate receptors and Ca2+ component duration of the ganglion cell perikarya appear to be independent processes.
The binding of 125I-labeled insulin in thin sections of frozen fresh rat brain (95% specific binding) was shown using autoradiography. By several criteria including structure-activity relationship analysis, the brain insulin receptors were qualitatively indistinguishable from insulin receptors previously characterized on brain and other more typical target tissues and distinct from receptors for the insulin-like growth factors. The 125I-labeled insulin binding sites in brain formed a distinct pattern with high levels of binding in all olfactory areas and in closely related limbic regions. Binding was also prominent in the neocortex and the accessory motor areas of the basal ganglia and the cerebellum. Among ancillary brain structures only the choroid plexus demonstrated a high density of insulin receptors. When insulin receptors were located on cortical or laminated structures, the highest binding occurred in the superficial (&quot;molecular&quot; or &quot;plexiform&quot;) layer, i.e. the layer which receives afferent input and/or is rich in the dendritic branches of principal neurons (e.g. external plexiform layer of the olfactory bulb and the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus). The enrichment of insulin receptors in the olfactory and limbic systems, which is a characteristic feature of other known neuropeptides, in addition to their prevalence in the strata occupied by the dendritic fields of principle neurons, suggests a neuromodulatory function for insulin in the brain.
The activity of 43 antidromically identified abducens internuclear neurons with conduction velocities ranging from 14 to 54 m/s was analyzed in alert cats during spontaneous and vestibular induced eye movements. The discharge rate of internuclear neurons significantly increased with successive adducting positions of the contralateral eye. Slopes of rate-position (k) relationships ranged from 3.1 to 17.9 spikes/deg (mean 12.01 +/- 3.1). Threshold ranged from -19 degrees to +3 degrees. Frequency saturation was never observed for any internuclear neuron within the oculomotor range. Although straight lines were selected to illustrate the rate-position relationships, exponential curves always provided the best statistical fit demonstrating that an enhancement in frequency potentiation (k) must accompany more eccentric fixations in the on direction. Internuclear neurons showed a low variability in firing rate (less than 3.0%) for fixations less than 1 s. Variability increased with both longer and repeated fixations of the same eye position. Discharge rates were found to depend upon both the direction of the preceding eye movement and the animal's level of alertness. Separate regression lines of rate-position relations following saccades in the on and off directions differed significantly in slope (100%), but not threshold. The observed static hysteresis in an identified non-motoneuron shows this property to be in a central neural circuit prior to the extraocular motoneuron. The slopes (k) of rate-position plots for all internuclear neurons decreased significantly (100%) when level of alertness changed from &quot;alert&quot; (1 +/- 0.2 saccades/s) to &quot;drowsy&quot; (0.5 +/- 0.2 saccades/s). Thresholds, however, were not significantly altered. Discharge rate of abducens internuclear neurons increased abruptly 10.4 +/- 2.5 ms preceding saccades in the on direction, and decreased 20.5 +/- 7.8 ms before saccades in the off direction. Internuclear neuronal activity was not affected by pure vertical saccades. During on direction saccades, firing frequency did not saturate, but increased with velocity in a linear fashion. Exponential functions often fit the data better due to the difference in slopes of rate-velocity plots for on vs off direction saccades. Slopes (rs) of rate-velocity regression lines during spontaneous saccades ranged from 0.99 to 4.10 spikes/s/deg/s (mean 2.16 +/- 0.93). During saccades in the off direction activity always decreased, but it seldom ceased. Rate-velocity regression lines measured during the fast phase of vestibular nystagmus (rsv = 2.09 +/- 0.88) showed no significant differences from rs slopes in 82% of the cases.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The activity of 53 antidromically identified abducens motoneurons was analyzed in alert cats during spontaneous and vestibular induced eye movements. Conduction velocities ranged from 13 to 70 m/s and all motoneurons increased their discharge rates with successive eye positions in the abducting direction. Motoneurons were recruited from -19 degrees to +7 degrees. Within the oculomotor range frequency saturation was never observed for any cell. The slope of rate-position (k) relationships ranged from 2 to 17.7 spikes/s/deg (n = 40, mean 8.7 +/- 2.5). Regression analysis showed that the rate-position plots could be fit by straight lines but in most cases exponential curves produced slightly better statistical fits. Steeper slopes suggest that successively larger increases in k are required for the lateral rectus muscle to maintain more eccentric fixations in the on direction. Interspike intervals for a constant eye position exhibited low variability (less than 3.5%) for fixations shorter than 1 s. Over longer periods, variability increased in proportion to the duration of the fixation in exponential-like fashion up to 14%. Abducens motoneurons showed considerable variability in frequency during repeated fixations of the same eye position. Discharge rates were found to depend upon both the direction of the previous eye movement and, more importantly, the animal's level of alertness. The rate-position regression lines for fixation periods after saccades in the on direction significantly differed in slopes (100%) and thresholds (20%) from those in the off direction. The observed static hysteresis in abducens motoneuron behavior was in opposite direction to that previously described for the mechanical properties of the lateral rectus. This suggests both neural and mechanical factors are significantly involved in determining final eye position. The animal's level of alertness was evaluated in this study by counting the number of saccadic movements/s occurring in &quot;alert&quot; (1 +/- 0.2 saccades/s), and &quot;drowsy&quot; (0.5 +/- 0.2 saccades/s) circumstances. Comparison of the rate-position regression lines between the two conditions showed a significant decrease in slopes (100%) and elevation of thresholds (70%). Discharge rate of abducens motoneurons increased abruptly 8.9 +/- 2.8 ms prior to saccades in the horizontal on direction, and decreased 14.8 +/- 4.05 m before saccades in the off direction. During purely vertical saccades the firing frequency of abducens motoneurons did not change. Burst frequency did not saturate during saccades, but increased with saccadic velocity in a linear fashion.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The results of three independent experiments are presented. In the first experiment, the afferent fibers of the right side IX and X sympathetic ganglia of five frogs were stimulated at 100 Hz and control unstimulated ganglia were taken from five other frogs. In the second experiment, the right IX and X ganglia from eight other frogs were stimulated at 10 Hz; the left side ganglia of the same eight frogs served as controls. A third experiment was performed in the presence of extracellular horseradish peroxidase, the sympathetic ganglia of three frogs were stimulated at 10 Hz, those of three other frogs were stimulated at 100 Hz and control ganglia exposed to horseradish peroxidase, but not stimulated were taken from another three frogs. Postganglionic compound action potentials were recorded in each experiment to verify the effectiveness of the stimulation. Following stimulation, the ganglia were fixed and prepared for electron microscopy. Between 10 and 20 synaptic profiles were photographed for each ganglia. The numerical density on area (i.e. number of vesicles per micron 2) was calculated separately for the clear vesicles and for the large dense-core vesicles of each profile. Statistical tests indicated no significant difference in the numerical density on area of the clear vesicles, or of the dense-core vesicles between the control and the ganglia stimulated at either 10 or 100 Hz. However, in the experiment done in presence of horseradish peroxidase, a significant increase of the percentage of vesicles labeled with horseradish peroxidase was obtained following stimulation at either 10 or 100 Hz.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Membrane potential or ionic conductance of neurones of the mammalian central or peripheral nervous system maintained in vitro can be measured over periods of several hours. Drugs or transmitters which change potential or conductance can be applied repeatedly under equilibrium conditions, and pharmacological null methods used to characterize the receptors with which they interact. The method offers an advantage over ligand binding studies on nervous tissue because both agonist and antagonist affinities can be estimated on individual functioning cells. The results to date suggest the hypothesis that a given receptor subtype is always associated with the same change in ion conductance, and the corollary that distinct ion conductances affected by the same transmitter result from interactions with different receptor subtypes.
A primary culture of porcine pars intermedia cells with particularly high yields has been developed. The cells, grown in monolayers, secrete the pro-opiomelanocortin-derived peptide alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone over several weeks. The patch-clamp technique has been used to demonstrate the presence of gamma-aminobutyrateA (GABAA) receptors on the cells. GABA or the selective GABAA receptor agonist isoguvacine produced a depolarizing increase in chloride conductance that desensitized rapidly. The response was antagonized by bicuculline and by the aminopyridazine derivative of GABA (SR 95103), a novel GABAA receptor antagonist. The effects of specific agonists for each receptor were tested on peptide release from cells maintained in a perfusion system. Isoguvacine (10 microM) potentiated Ba2+-evoked release of alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone, whereas (-)-baclofen (50 microM) decreased both basal and stimulated hormone release. This negative effect on peptide secretion was reproduced when GABA (50 microM) was perfused in the presence of bicuculline (10 microM) to block GABAA receptor activation. The possible mechanisms underlying these GABAA and GABAB effects on stimulus-secretion coupling in this neuroendocrine model are discussed.
Retinas from 3- and 10-day-old rabbits, and from young (29 days), or adult animals were used to study in parallel the development of synaptic vesicles in amacrine cells and the Ca2+ dependence of the K+-stimulated [3H]gamma-aminobutyrate release from them. Few synaptic vesicles were observed in the amacrine cell processes in retinas from the 3-day-old rabbits. The number of vesicles significantly increased between 3 and 10 days and increased further between day 10 and the adult animal. The Ca2+ dependence of the K+-stimulated release decreased with increasing age. There is thus a poor correlation between the Ca2+ dependent transmitter release and the number of synaptic vesicles in the nerve terminal, favouring the existence of a Ca2+ dependent nonvesicular process for the [3H]gamma-aminobutyrate release in the rabbit retina.

Somatostatin-like immunoreactive amacrine cells of the chicken retina have been characterized by immunohistochemistry at the light and electron microscope levels. The cell bodies were set back from the junction of the inner nuclear and inner plexiform layers, and prominent fibre plexuses were found in sublaminas 1 and 3-5 of the inner plexiform layer. The cells were distributed across the retinal surface with a centroperipheral gradient of cell density. Locally, the cells were organized in a non-random mosaic. Ultrastructurally, immunohistochemical reaction product was found throughout the cytoplasm of the cell bodies, particularly associated with membranous structures, including the cytoplasmic surfaces of the Golgi apparatus, and within large dense-core vesicles. In dendritic varicosities in the inner plexiform layer, reaction product was associated with the external surfaces of small, clear synaptic vesicles. The synaptic relationships of the somatostatin-immunoreactive terminals in sublamina 1 were distinct from those in sublaminas 3-5. Those in sublamina 1 received input predominantly, possibly exclusively, from bipolar cells. Feedback synapses onto bipolar terminals or to the other amacrine cell process at a synaptic dyad were observed. In sublaminas 3-5, input came predominantly, possibly exclusively, from other, non-immunoreactive amacrine cells, and output was primarily onto other amacrine cells. No synaptic contacts with ganglion cells or with other somatostatin-immunoreactive amacrine cells were identified. Changes in levels of somatostatin-like immunoreactivity in retinas of chicks kept on 12:12 light:dark cycles were detected by radioimmunoassay, and by light and electron microscopic immunohistochemistry. Levels of retinal somatostatin-like immunoreactivity increased in the light and decreased in the dark. The changes appear to be light-driven rather than circadian, since with prolonged exposure to light or dark, the levels of somatostatin-like immunoreactivity continued to increase or decrease until plateaus were reached. The light-driven change in levels of somatostatin-like immunoreactivity may be related to the predominance of bipolar input to the immunoreactive processes in sublamina 1 of the inner plexiform layer. The reduction in peptide levels in the dark may indicate greater release of somatostatin-like immunoreactivity from the amacrine cells in the dark, resulting in an inability of peptide synthesis to keep pace with breakdown. In the light, release of somatostatin-like immunoreactivity may be lower, leading to a net synthesis of peptide.
We studied the development of neurotransmitter phenotype in sympathetic neurons grown in the presence of pinealocytes, a target tissue having adrenergic but not cholinergic receptors. Neurons, dissociated from neonatal rat superior cervical ganglia, were grown in co-culture with dissociated pineal cells. Both ganglionic and pineal non-neuronal background cells were allowed to grow nearly to confluency. Electron microscopic cytochemical techniques were used to examine sets of co-cultures at weekly intervals over 5 weeks. Adrenergic vesicles were identified by their dense granular precipitate following potassium permanganate fixation. We found that the percentage of small granular vesicles, both in synaptic boutons onto other neurons and in axonal varicosities, declined very little over 5 weeks. After an initial drop from 75 to 65%, the percentage of small granular vesicles remained remarkably constant. Throughout the 5 weeks, more than 70% of the boutons and varicosities contained a predominance of small granular vesicles; fewer than 20% contained a predominance of clear vesicles. Although both somal synaptic boutons and axonal varicosities retained a predominantly adrenergic ultrastructure, at certain weeks there was a statistically significant shift in the percent distribution of adrenergic vesicles in somal boutons compared with the distribution in axonal varicosities. Because these cultures were grown under conditions known to favor an induction of acetylcholine metabolism and a suppression of catecholamine metabolism, we conclude that the maintenance of adrenergic ultrastructure over 5 weeks may be due to the presence of the pineal cells.
The effects of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate and gamma-D-glutamylglycine on the induction of long-lasting potentiation in the CAl and dentate areas of the hippocampal slice preparation have been examined. Synaptic activity was recorded extracellularly in the dendritic layer as a field excitatory postsynaptic potential, and the amount of long-lasting potentiation produced was measured from the change in slope of the rising phase of this potential. Experiments were generally performed with the gamma-aminobutyric acid antagonist picrotoxin in the solution. It is shown that 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate prevents the induction of long-lasting potentiation following afferent tetanization of an input, without any effect on other inputs projecting to the same postsynaptic neurons. This result makes it unlikely that the preventive action of 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate is related to any unspecific depressive action. Instead, 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate was observed to block a postsynaptic depolarizing process appearing during the tetanus, likely related to current through synaptically activated N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor channels. It is suggested that 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate prevents the induction of long-lasting potentiation by blockade of these currents through its antagonistic action on the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. Application of gamma-D-glutamylglycine similarly prevented the induction of long-lasting potentiation. No potentiation appeared following wash-out of the drug. The results exclude the possibility that the preventive action of this drug is related to a mere masking action on long-lasting potentiation induced in presynaptic terminals. It is suggested that gamma-D-glutamylglycine blocks the induction of long-lasting potentiation by its antagonistic action on the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, i.e. in a manner similar to that of 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate.
Six monkeys treated with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine developed a Parkinsonian syndrome (rigidity, akinesia, flexed posture and tremor). In both high and low dose groups, neurons in the substantia nigra were selectively damaged. At high dose levels, nigral neurons were severely damaged, but because the monkeys died, the evolution of the pathology could not be studied. At low dose levels, some nigral neurons survived, and a significant number of these nerve cells showed reductions in the immunoreactivity of tyrosine hydroxylase. Axonal pathology was conspicuous in the nigrostriatal pathway. Loss of the immunoreactivity of tyrosine hydroxylase in perikarya may represent a retrograde axonal reaction, a potentially reversible response. The 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine model should prove useful for investigating abnormalities occurring as a consequence of dysfunction of the nigrostriatal system, for examining processes associated with repair of damaged neuronal systems, and for developing and testing therapeutic approaches designed to prevent or ameliorate the Parkinsonian syndrome.
Large basket cells were identified in Golgi and horseradish peroxidase labeled material from the sensory-motor cortex of adult monkeys. Their morphology was correlated at the light and electron microscopic level with large comparable cells stained immunocytochemically for glutamate decarboxylase. In Golgi-impregnated material these cells have a very large cell body and dendrites that extend through several layers of the cortex with a predominant vertical orientation. The axon is only stained for a few micrometers. The same cells studied electron microscopically in serial sections after gold-toning show very distinctive ultrastructural characteristics: the cell bodies contain a large number of organelles, the nuclei are rounded with homogeneously dispersed chromatin and synapsing onto the somata are many axon terminals, both symmetrical and asymmetrical but the symmetrical type forms 70-80% of the total; dendrites also receive a large number of both symmetrical and asymmetrical synaptic contacts. All the axons of basket cells become myelinated and the Golgi labeling of the initial segments is interrupted at the commencement of the first myelin internode. The axon initial segments receive several symmetrical synaptic contacts in the proximal one-third of their length. The axonal arborization of a basket cell retrogradely labeled in the somatosensory cortex after intracortical injection of horseradish peroxidase was analyzed in detail. The mainly horizontal axonal collaterals of this cell are myelinated for most of their trajectory and have a preferred orientation in the anteroposterior dimension. These axonal collaterals, although very long (more than 1.8 mm), at intervals give rise to a small number of short unmyelinated terminal branches that bear a series of boutons terminaux forming a multi-terminal ending. The multi-terminal endings surround somata and proximal dendrites of pyramidal and non-pyramidal cells. Dense pericellular terminations (baskets or nests) like those drawn by Ramn y Cajal and Marin-Padilla are not formed by the axon of a single basket cell. Thus, basket formations are presumably formed by converging axons from several basket cells. Immunocytochemical material was stained for glutamate decarboxylase, the enzyme involved in the synthesis of gamma-aminobutyrate (GABA). This shows that large glutamate decarboxylase-positive neurons of the same size as those positively identified as basket cells in the Golgi and horseradish peroxidase material have virtually the same morphological characteristics, at both the light and electron microscope levels, as the basket cells.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Serial sections of cell- and fiber-stained and Golgi-impregnated material from adult mice were used to study the cytoarchitectonics, fiber and neuronal architecture of the inferior colliculus. The size of the cells, the pattern of dendritic branching, and the appearance of the neuropil were the features used to delineate the three main regions of the auditory tectum: the central mass of cells or central nucleus, the cortex, and the paracentral nuclei. The central nucleus contains two major cell types: the bipolar cells, which are the most abundant, and the multipolar cells. The dendrites of the bipolar cells are oriented in the same direction and the afferent axons of the lateral lemniscus run along them, contributing to form fibrodendritic strips: the laminae of the central nucleus. The orientation of these laminae differs in the various parts of the central nucleus and delineates four subdivisions. In these four subdivisions, the laminae maintain the same relative position throughout the anteroposterior axis of the central nucleus, but they stop abruptly at the periphery of the nucleus. The cortex surrounds the central nucleus dorsally and caudally. The lamination in four layers concentric to the surface, the increasing gradient of size from the periphery to the deep tissue, the existence of two major types of cells, stellate and pyramidal, permit this structure to be considered as a true cortex. The paracentral nuclei are scattered around the central nucleus. The commissural nucleus is composed of cells with a simple dendritic branching pattern perpendicular or parallel to the fibers of the intercollicular commissure. The dorsomedial and ventrolateral nuclei are characterized by the presence of large multipolar cells. The nucleus of the rostral pole, distinct from the anterior pole of the central nucleus, is composed of small and medium-sized multipolar cells. The lateral nucleus appears as an extension of the dorsal cortex with only two or three layers of cells. The neuronal organization in the central nucleus appears similar in the mouse and in the cat, suggesting an identical processing of auditory information in the two species. Our results seem to establish definitely the cortical nature of the sheet of cells covering the central nucleus.
The neuropeptides somatostatin, neurotensin and substance P were investigated in rats during and after limbic seizures induced by systemic injection of kainic acid (10 mg/kg, i.p.). Three hours after injection of the toxin, pronounced decreases (40-50%) in somatostatin-like immunoreactivity in frontal cortex, striatum, dorsal hippocampus and amygdala/pyriform cortex were observed. Concomitantly, neurotensin-like and substance P-like immunoreactivities were also reduced in the frontal cortex and the hippocampus. These early decreases in peptide levels may result from increased release and subsequent inactivation of the peptides during acute seizures. At later time intervals, 3, 10 and 30 days after injection of kainic acid, the initially decreased peptide levels were partially normalized. However, the reduction in somatostatin-like immunoreactivity in amygdala/pyriform cortex and striatum persisted up to 30 days. Neurotensin-like immunoreactivity remained decreased in the frontal cortex. On the other hand, neurotensin- and substance P-like immunoreactivities were increased in the striatum and substantia nigra 10-30 days after injection of kainic acid. These late changes in peptide levels may suggest destruction of peptidergic neurons or adaptive changes induced by the convulsions. Pretreatment of rats with cysteamine (100 mg/kg, i.p.), an agent which decreases brain somatostatin levels, had no effect on the intensity of kainic acid induced convulsions, although a slightly earlier onset of seizures was observed. The changes in peptide levels, especially the marked decreases in somatostatin content after systemic injection of kainic acid, suggest considerable acute and chronic alterations in peptidergic systems caused by limbic convulsions.
We have examined the populations of neurons in the neostriatum of both rat and cat that are immunoreactive for glutamate decarboxylase, [Leu]enkephalin, [Met]enkephalin and substance P. Neurons that were immunoreactive for glutamate decarboxylase made up 47% of the neurons in our samples from the rat and ranged from 39 to 49% of the neurons in the cat. Those immunoreactive for [Leu]enkephalin made up 44-49% of the neurons in rat neostriatum, and 38-47% in the cat, and those immunoreactive for [Met]enkephalin made up 36-41% of the neurons in rat and 43-49% of the neurons in the cat. Substance P-immunoreactive neurons made up 30-38% of neurons in rat and 32-39% in cat. Most substance P neurons (particularly the most darkly staining ones) were, however, clustered such that they were most numerous in the patch compartment of neostriatum; within the patches the substance P neurons comprised 59% of neurons in the rat and 55% in cat, but in the matrix substance P neurons comprised only 32% of neurons in the rat and 25% in the cat. Samples taken from sections processed for two-color double labeling immunocytochemistry revealed that 12% of neurons label for both glutamate decarboxylase and [Leu]enkephalin, 12% for both glutamate decarboxylase and [Met]enkephalin, 11-12% for both glutamate decarboxylase and substance P, and 17% for both [Met]enkephalin and substance P. These results provide evidence for chemical heterogeneity within the medium-sized neostriatal neurons, and provide the first evidence for coexistence of glutamate decarboxylase and substance P within a single neuron, and the first evidence for the coexistence for substance P and [Met]enkephalin within single neurons of the central nervous system.

Using the Fourier transform on a peristimulus time histogram (PSTH) to calculate spectral components of a spike train can yield erroneous spectral amplitudes. This happens because the PSTH is a function defined at discrete points in a way that conflicts with the sampling theorem.
A new and simple simultaneous labelling procedure is described that gives the possibility of studying interneuronal connections and territorial overlap of different pathways. This method uses horseradish peroxidase (HRP) labelling in combination with the cobalt-filling technique. The blue colour of the HRP reaction end-product formed from 0-tolidine (Neuroscience, 4 (1979) 1805-1852) and the dark brown of cobalt-filled neurons and their processes allow easy distinction of the two different labels. Since both markers can be transported anterogradely and retrogradely by axons, this combination of the two techniques seems to be a very useful tool for neuroanatomical research. We have tested this method in a weakly electric fish, Gnathonemus petersii, and in frog, Rana esculenta.
Ganglia processed through the osmium-ethyl gallate procedure (OEG)19 retain more structural integrity than those processed through various silver impregnation methods. However, the OEG method continues to be neglected by most neuroanatomists. Both types of procedures have been used to trace large neuronal tracts, but during silver impregnation the neuropils lose many of their identifying characteristics. We demonstrate here the advantages of the OEG procedure by comparing it with two silver techniques, Rowell's and Holmes's. The OEG method yields consistent and reliable results and is easier to carry out than silver protocols. Most importantly, the better preservation of the neuropils has led to the discovery and study of regional specializations that were previously undetected from silver preparations.

The application and interpretation of computerised spectral analysis of the neonatal electroencephalogram (EEG) using the Neuroscience Berg Fourier Analyser (BFA) is described. Recordings are immediately available at the cotside. Electrophysiological changes can be recognised by individuals with no previous experience in EEG technology. The compact nature of the analysis allows long periods of recording to be viewed within minutes. In addition to the unequivocal demonstration of both clinical and subclinical seizures, the BFA is useful in the evaluation of interseizure activity--that is, disturbance of sleep patterns, electrical output, and hemisphere asymmetry.
Coriolis, cross-coupled angular acceleration stimulation readily induces motion sickness under terrestrial conditions. Nevertheless, the Skylab astronauts, when tested with such stimulation in-flight, were insusceptible even though each had been susceptible pre-flight. It is unclear whether this decreased susceptibility was the consequence of in-flight adaptation or in part the result of immediate changes in sensory-motor and vestibulo-motor function that occur during exposure to microgravity conditions. To evaluate this issue, we have tested individuals both in the high and low force phases of parabolic flight maneuvers using constant levels of Coriolis, cross-coupled stimulation. Our findings indicate that 1.) subjects are less susceptible when tested in 0 G than +2 Gz; 2.) the perceived intensity and provocativeness of Coriolis stimulation decreases in 0 G and increases in +2 Gz relative to +1 Gz baseline values; and 3.) changes in the apparent intensity of Coriolis stimulation occur virtually immediately when background gravitoinertial force level is varied. These findings explain in large part why the Skylab astronauts were refractory to motion sickness during Coriolis stimulation in-flight. The general implications for space motion sickness are discussed.


Linear spectral coherence (Sklar et al., 1973) measures have been used in the neurosciences to test hypotheses which address the question of whether multiple EEG recording sites are independent or whether they are activated by common sources of neurophysiological activity. This measure is appropriate when regional neural sources interact and thereby electrically activate several recording sites through linear transmission pathways which may or may not be different in their linear transformation properties. However, if the transmission media are non-linear, then interactive dependency is not necessarily revealed by a linear coherence test. Therefore, if common sources are activating EEG recording sites through nonlinear media, evaluating the resulting relationships among the signals recorded from these sites requires a test which reveals the presence of such nonlinear relationships. In neurophysiological applications, a polycoherence cross-spectral measure provides such a test for nonlinear dependency (similar to the linear coherence test) among EEG recording sites. The data requirements and statistical properties of these linear and non-linear measures are described and results of a linear coherence analysis are presented in the context of an EEG pilot study of learning-disabled children.

Release of neuronal secretory products by exocytosis was studied ultrastructurally in the central nervous systems of three different species (the snail Lymnaea stagnalis, the cockroach Periplaneta americana and the rat). Tissues were fixed with: (1) a mixture of glutaraldehyde and osmium tetroxide, (2) the tannic acid-glutaraldehyde-osmium tetroxide (TAGO) method, and (3) the tannic acid-Ringer incubation (TARI) method. Especially after TARI-treatment, release of the contents of the secretory vesicles by exocytosis could be clearly demonstrated in: (1) synapses, (2) neurohaemal axon terminals (L. stagnalis), and (3) neuronal processes without morphological synaptic specializations (nonsynaptic release sites). Release from nonsynaptic release sites occurs in most cases over a large area of the plasma membrane of a neuronal process facing several neural elements. On the basis of the differences in morphology of the secretory vesicles at nonsynaptic release sites, it is proposed that various types of (peptidic) messenger are released from such sites. In some neurones of L. stagnalis nonsynaptic release sites have been found together with synapses, or with neurohaemal axon terminals (caudodorsal cells, light green cells and light yellow cells). The possibility that nonsynaptic release sites represent the morphological correlates of nonsynaptic communication in the central nervous system has been discussed.
We investigated the effects of dopamine and its agonists and antagonists on the receptive field properties of ganglion cells in the isolated eyecup preparation of the rabbit. In general, dopamine (20-250 microM) reduced the overall sensitivity of ganglion cells to light stimuli while increasing the spontaneous activity of off-center cells and decreasing the spontaneous activity of on-center cells and on-off directionally selective cells. Neither(-)-apomorphine (8-82 microM) nor the selective D-2 agonist LY 141865 (7-85 microM) mimicked the effects of exogenous dopamine. Instead, both drugs altered the responses of ganglion cells in a manner similar to that of the selective D-1 antagonist SCH 23390. The latter at 4-41 microM: (1) selectively reduced the antagonistic surround responses of off-center cells; (2) changed the sustained excitatory responses of on-center sustained cells to spots of light into sustained inhibitory responses; (3) selectively reduced the leading edge responses of on-off directionally selective cells to moving light stimuli, and (4) decreased the spontaneous activity of off-center cells while increasing the spontaneous activity of on-center cells. The effects of the selective D-2 antagonist S-sulpiride (37-116 microM) on the responses of on-center cells resembled those of exogenous dopamine, while for off-center cells the effects of S-sulpiride were similar to those of (-)-apomorphine and LY 141865. Results were compared with those obtained previously with dopamine antagonists haloperidol, fluphenazine and cis-flupenthixol on ganglion cell responses in the intact rabbit eye. These three drugs were clearly acting at D-1 receptors. The present findings support a physiological role for D-2 receptors in visual processing in the rabbit retina, in particular the hypothesis that endogenous dopamine release is modulated by inhibitory D-2 autoreceptors. They also suggest that one function of dopaminergic neurons may be to modulate the sensitivity of ganglion cells to light stimuli.
This study describes the ultrastructural changes in the myenteric ganglia at the gastro-oesophageal junction of the monkey (Macaca fascicularis) after unilateral cervical vagotomy. Degenerating vagal fibres occurred within the ganglia and they represented only a small fraction of the endings present. The most striking finding at days 1-3 after vagotomy, was that some dendrites of myenteric neurons had a distinctly increased electron density which ranged from a moderate darkening of the cytoplasm to an almost complete blackening of the profile. This regressive change was widespread; however, apparently, it did not affect more than one dendrite in any neuron. Darkened dendrites were no longer found at 5-7 days after vagotomy, and they were not present in control ganglia. It is concluded that the degeneration of vagal endings is accompanied by transneuronal regressive changes that are very rapid in onset, are short lasting and possibly fully reversible, and affect only one dendrite of the neuron. It is suggested that the process observed represents a novel form of transneuronal influence.
Horseradish peroxidase retrograde transport has been used to locate and make a quantitative study of neurons of the rat spinal cord which project to the thalamus. Across the grey, labelled cells were found in the head and neck of the dorsal horn (in three locations, but not the substantia gelatinosa); in the region of the internal basilar nucleus of Ramn y Cajal; in the intermediate grey zone; in the lateral cervical nucleus and funiculus; and in the ventral horn. The latter contains the largest population of neurons projecting ipsilaterally. The most significant finding concerns the craniocaudal distribution of the cells. More than 50% of the thalamically projecting neurons are confined to the upper four cervical segments, where every population is represented. Some populations are continuous with thalamically projecting populations in the lower medulla. The cervical enlargement contains less than 5% of spinothalamic cells. The lumbar enlargement contains 33%, most of which are in the region of the internal basilar nucleus. This population is also marked in the upper cervical segments. Thus, in the rat, the origin of the spinothalamic tract is distributed along the cord in a very uneven manner. This may indicate that sensory information delivered to any one segment of the spinal cord by a primary afferent is not always relayed direct to the thalamus by a local second order neuron; that different parts of the body are not represented to the same extent in the spinothalamic system; or that these two factors combine to produce the observed distribution.
We have previously found that the coupling of changes in autonomic activity and emotional behavior to acoustic stimuli through classical fear conditioning survives bilateral ablation of auditory cortex but is disrupted by bilateral lesions of the medial geniculate nucleus or inferior colliculus in rats. Auditory fear conditioning thus appears to be mediated by the relay of acoustic input from the medial geniculate nucleus to subcortical rather than cortical targets. Since the medial geniculate nucleus projects, in addition to auditory cortex, to a striatal field, involving portions of the posterior neostriatum and underlying archistriatum (amygdala), we have sought to determine whether interruption of connections linking the medial geniculate nucleus to this subcortical field also disrupts conditioning. The conditioned emotional response model studied included the measurement of increases in mean arterial pressure and heart rate and the suppression of exploratory activity and drinking by the acoustic conditioned stimulus following delayed classical conditioning, where the footshock unconditioned stimulus appeared at the end of the conditioned stimulus. The peak increase in arterial pressure and the duration of activity and drinking suppression were greater in unoperated animals subjected to delayed conditioning than in pseudoconditioned controls, where the footshock was randomly rather than systematically related to the acoustic stimulus. Increases in heart rate, however, did not differ in conditioned and pseudoconditioned groups. While the arterial pressure and behavioral responses therefore reflect associative conditioning, the heart rate response does not. Rats were prepared with bilateral lesions of the medial geniculate nucleus, bilateral lesions of the striatal field or asymmetrical unilateral lesions destroying the medial geniculate nucleus on one side and the striatal field on the contralateral side. The latter preparation leaves one medial geniculate nucleus and one striatal field intact but disconnected and thus produces a selective auditory deafferentation of the intact striatal field. Control groups included animals with unilateral lesion of the medial geniculate nucleus, with unilateral lesion of the medial geniculate nucleus combined with lesion of the ipsilateral striatal field, unilateral lesion of the medial geniculate combined with lesion of the contralateral anterior neostriatum (a striatal area outside of the medial geniculate nucleus projection field).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
In the present study we have investigated the relative rostrocaudal position of the neurons in the substantia nigra, which project to the ipsilateral or contralateral neostriatum. The retrograde tract tracer horseradish peroxidase was implanted into the striatum on one side. The substantia nigra, ventral tegmental area and retrorubral area ipsilateral and contralateral to the site of implantation were examined for labeled cells. The distributions of the cells which give rise to the crossed and uncrossed nigrostriatal projections were found to be inverse. More labeled cells were found in the rostral than the caudal part of the substantia nigra ipsilateral to the site of horseradish peroxidase implantation. In contrast, there was a greater likelihood of finding labeled cells in the middle and caudal parts of the contralateral substantia nigra than in the rostral part. Sparse projections from the ipsilateral and contralateral retrorubral area and ventral tegmental area were also found.
This study shows that the neurons of the entopeduncular nucleus are derived from a longitudinal slab of isochronically generated neurons on day 11 and 15 h of gestation. Many neurons of this longitudinal slab which we have named the basal forebrain cell column, originate from an ependymal matrix closely associated with the ventral diencephalic sulcus and later become associated with the basal forebrain bundle. Other neurons also originate from the ependymal matrix at the site of emergence of the optic recess and keep close relationships with the optic chiasma through the following stages of development to form the retrochiasmatic nucleus. During the second half of day 12 of gestation, the mantle layer of the forebrain shows an early zone of differentiation along its ventrolateral aspect. At this stage, the basal forebrain cell column extends unbroken from the tuberculum posterius to the chiasmatic plate primordium (site of generation of the retrochiasmatic nucleus). At the level of the caudal aspect of the optic stalk however, the basal forebrain cell column divides in two limbs associated to the ventral and dorsal edges of the optic stalk as it emerges from the forebrain. On day 14 of gestation, the neurons of the dorsal limb of the basal forebrain cell column occupy the mantle layer of the neural tube at least as far rostrally as the ventricular elevation in front of the optic stalk in the floor of the foramen of Monro. The neurons derived from the basal forebrain cell column begin breaking up into a series of more definite nuclei at later stages of development. The main finding of this study is the disclosure of the fact that the entopeduncular nucleus as well as other cell groups as dissimilar as the lateral preoptic area, the central, medial and anterior cortical amygdaloid complex and neurons of the dorsal hypothalamic area appear to be embryologically related, as they are all derived from a common longitudinal slab of the matrix of the forebrain.
This study discusses the histogenesis of the structures of the extrapyramidal system. The first part based on [3H]thymidine autoradiography provides data on the time of origin of the various neuronal populations that characterize different structures of the extrapyramidal system. Such data are essential to any further study dealing with the localization of the different sites of origin of the neurons along the ependymal matrix and with their migration during the histogenetic sequences leading to their definitive pattern of adult distribution. The neurons of globus pallidus and of the entopeduncular nucleus are generated on days 12-15 and days 11-14, respectively. A peak of neurogenesis occurs on day 12 for the entopeduncular nucleus and on day 14 for the globus pallidus. In the pallidum, the first neurons to form on day 12 settle caudally, while neurons generated on day 15 settle in the rostral extremity. The genesis of the medium-sized neurons of the neostriatum extends from day 12 to at least postnatal day 2. A peak is obvious on day 15. Although the neurogenesis of these neurons follows a mild caudorostral gradient, a more careful examination reveals four different patterns of settlement according to the area involved and the period of gestation. At the level of the caudal neostriatum, the neurons display a clear mediolateral spatiotemporal gradient. More rostrally, the neurons generated on days 13, 14 and 15 show two patterns of settlement. On the one hand, many neurons settle rather densely along the external capsule on day 13, occupying more rostral levels on days 14 and 15. On the other hand, in the body of the neostriatum, clusters of isochronically generated neurons are obvious. Later, newly generated neurons display a rather homogeneous distribution in the structure. A parallel is drawn between these patterns of development and the patterns of distribution of afferent terminals or neurotransmitters. The large chromophilic neurons of the neostriatum appear exclusively during the early period. Two peaks of neurogenesis are apparent. The one on day 13 comprises neurons that settle caudally. It is contemporaneous to the neurogenesis of the adjacent basal nucleus. The second peak occurs on day 15 and corresponds to that of the medium-sized neurons.
In order to obtain a good understanding of the coordination of the motor system several problems have to be solved. Two major issues are: (1) that muscles do not form an orthogonal coordinate system, and (2) that the number of muscles that may contribute to a movement in general exceeds the number of degrees of freedom of the movement. The latter allows the movement to be executed by an infinite variety of muscle activations. A theoretical solution to these problems has been elaborated by Pellionisz and Llins. However, convincing experimental support for this theory is still lacking. In this paper the theory has been applied to the activation of arm muscles which contribute to flexion/extension and supination/pronation of the arm. Motor unit activity was recorded with fine wire electrodes. As reported in previous papers, the recruitment threshold of motor units in arm muscles during isometric contraction depends on a combination of forces in flexion and supination directions. This dependence is characteristic for motor units in a single muscle, but is very different for motor units in different muscles. The theoretical results are in good agreement with the behavior of the recruitment threshold for flexion, which decreases (such as m. biceps brachii), or increases (such as for m. brachialis and m. brachioradialis) with force in supination direction. The theory also correctly predicts how the recruitment threshold for motor units changes as a function of the angle between forearm and upper arm. These results give firm support to the hypothesis that the central nervous system uses a tensorial approach for the activation of the motor system, as originally proposed by Pellionisz and Llins.
Adult superior cervical sympathetic ganglia were auto-transplanted, and adult nodose ganglia were homografted into the septal nuclei or the choroid fissure of adult Wistar rats. At times from 4 h to 9 weeks after operation, the distribution of surviving transplanted neurons was compared with the development of the transplant vascularization, as visualized by transcardial Indian ink filling of the host vascular system. Within 24 h, the ganglionic neurons and Schwann cells of the interior of the transplants in both sites were necrotic. The surviving neurons and Schwann cells formed a shell, occupying those areas of the transplant periphery which were in direct contact with the host circulation. Occasional ink-filled vessels were evident at this time in transplants in the choroid fissure, but there were none in the septal nuclei, where vessels did not appear until the next day. Blood vessels reached the centre of the ganglia by 3-4 days in the choroid fissure and one week in the septal nuclei, the finest diameter capillaries forming last. At longer survivals there was a slow loss of neurons, notable between 1 and 2 months, and leading progressively (especially in the septal transplantation site) to the disappearance of all but a very small number of ganglionic neurons. The general findings were similar for both types of ganglion, and in both sites, but the initial cell loss was much greater for both types of ganglia in the septum (over 90%) as compared with about a 50% loss in the choroid fissure. The initial rapid cell loss was probably a result of ischaemia. The subsequent, slow progressive loss may be associated with failure to make or receive neuronal connections, or the absence of appropriate growth factors.
The ultrastructural effects of stimulation and subsequent rest were measured in frog neuromuscular junctions preserved by rapid-freezing and freeze-substitution, a method that minimizes fixation-associated membrane rearrangements. The effects were compared to those measured in junctions preserved by aldehyde fixation in order to identify artifacts attributable to the method of preservation. Effects of stimulation previously observed in tissue preserved by aldehyde fixation were evident in both the rapid-frozen and aldehyde-fixed neuromuscular junctions in the present study. Synaptic vesicles were reduced in number and cisternal profiles were increased. However, the sizes and shapes of the cisternae differed with the method of preservation. In addition, it was found that mitochondria underwent a change in shape with stimulation. This was accompanied by swelling in the fixed preparations, but not in the rapid-frozen ones. Fixation after stimulation also produced swelling of the nerve terminals, a stimulation-associated change not evident in preparations that were preserved by rapid-freezing. After stimulation and 60 min of rest, nerve terminals showed recovery towards control morphology, evidence that the effects of the stimulation parameters used in the study were reversible. This study, utilizing rapid-frozen material, confirms previous reports based on chemically fixed tissue that stimulation reduces the number of synaptic vesicles and increases the number of cisternae. The findings are in accord with the hypotheses of exocytotic neurotransmitter release and local recycling of synaptic membrane. In addition, the study emphasizes that accurate quantitative assessments of membrane redistribution in active secretory systems cannot depend on chemically fixed tissues. It also shows that mitochondria are susceptible to radical distortion by aldehyde fixatives, and that the degree of susceptibility differs with the physiological state of the tissue.
The neurotoxic effects of the selective excitatory amino acid receptor agonists, quisqualate, kainate and N-methyl-D-aspartate, were studied in slice preparations of cerebellum from rats at different stages of postnatal development. With increasing age, (i) Purkinje cells became more vulnerable to kainate and quisqualate but remained insensitive to N-methyl-D-aspartate (up to 300 microM); (ii) Golgi cells became more sensitive to kainate, quisqualate and N-methyl-D-aspartate; (iii) granule cells became more sensitive to kainate, less sensitive to N-methyl-D-aspartate and remained unaffected by quisqualate (up to 100 microM), and (iv) basket and stellate cells and, up to 14 days of age, neurones of the deep cerebellar nuclei, became more vulnerable to kainate and quisqualate, but their sensitivity to N-methyl-D-aspartate stayed the same. The neurotoxicity of N-methyl-D-aspartate, but not that of kainate in 8-day-old cerebellar slices was prevented by 2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid; tetrodotoxin did not affect the toxicity of the agonists in 8-day-old or adult slices. The results with kainate are consistent with other studies indicating an insensitivity of the immature brain to its neurotoxic effects, but suggest that this property is not a peculiarity of kainate. Alterations in excitatory potency can explain some of the observed developmental changes. However, other observations cannot readily be accounted for on the basis of either changes in excitatory potency, the functional maturation of cerebellar circuits, changes in synaptic density, or the developmental appearance of Ca2+ channels in susceptible cells, suggesting that additional factors play an important role in the neurotoxic effects of the excitants.
Intracellular recordings from pyramidal neurones during microiontophoretic ejection of N-methyl-D-aspartate and quisqualate into the pyramidal cell layer of the CA1 region of the rat hippocampal slice showed that both amino acids caused depolarization and evoked spike activity. Whereas quisqualate evoked tetrodotoxin-sensitive spikes, those produced by N-methyl-D-aspartate consisted of bursts of tetrodotoxin-sensitive action potentials superimposed on an underlying depolarizing shift of membrane potential. Both membrane depolarization and the superimposed depolarizing shifts associated with N-methyl-D-aspartate excitation were selectively and reversibly antagonized by the D(-) isomer of 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate and Co2+. Both amino acids caused an increase in membrane conductance when small ejection currents were used, and the depolarizing response to these compounds was prevented by current injection. However, only the increase by N-methyl-D-aspartate was blocked by 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate and Co2+. These results provide evidence to support the suggestion that different mechanisms underlie the excitatory response to N-methyl-D-aspartate and quisqualate in CA1 pyramidal neurones.
The beta-isomer of kainic acid has been reported to have anticonvulsant activity with a profile suggesting amino acid antagonism. The present study, on neurons in the cerebral cortex of anaesthetised rats or in hippocampal slices, shows that beta-kainate does not antagonise any of the major agonists at amino acid receptors: N-methylaspartate, quisqualic acid or alpha-kainic acid. beta-Kainate does have an excitant action of its own which can be partially reduced by 2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid but is unaffected by gamma-D-glutamylglycine. It is blocked completely by kynurenic acid.
A rabbit antiserum against purified bovine brain S-100b protein was produced and characterized by immunoassay and immunoblot analysis of electrophoretically resolved soluble brain proteins. Fluorescent immunohistochemistry was conducted in order to determine the cellular localization of the S-100b immunoreactivity. Double immunohistofluorescent experiments on adult rat brain tissue sections with the rabbit antiserum to S-100b and a rat monoclonal antibody to the glial fibrillary acidic protein resulted in immunolabelling of the same cells. This finding determines a strict astroglial localization of the S-100b immunoreactivity. In addition, the immunolabelling of astrocyte perikarya and processes by the S-100b immunohistochemistry is consistent with a cytoplasmic location of S-100b. In contrast, the glial fibrillary acidic protein immunohistochemistry predominantly labeled the fine fibrillary processes of the cells. The present report suggests that S-100b immunohistochemistry is of use for the specific identification and morphological description of astrocytes in the rat brain.
Adult astrocytes and their processes, identified by glial fibrillary acidic protein immunohistochemistry and by electron microscopy, migrate into superior cervical ganglia auto-transplanted into the choroid fissure or septal nuclei of adult rats. Migration routes were along the blood vessels, and along the Schwann cell bundles of the transplant. Ultrastructurally, astrocytic processes could be seen to lie in direct contact with Schwann cell processes within the basal lamina enwrapping the Schwann cell and its associated axons. Around the region of the host/transplant interface, the astrocytes were transformed into flattened cells with many short, irregular, fringe-like processes, but within the depths of the transplant mass they resumed a more stellate configuration. Glial fibrillary acidic protein immunoreactivity was present within the intrinsic satellite and Schwann cells of the grafted ganglia, but at a much lower level than in the host astrocytes. It is concluded that reactive astrocytes from adult host central nervous system migrate into peripheral ganglionic transplants, where they differentiate and establish organized arrangements with the ganglionic elements.
The anatomical distribution and pharmacological characteristics of benzodiazepine receptors in the human spinal cord were examined in four cases aged 20-41 years using in vitro autoradiography and biochemical assays of [3H]flunitrazepam binding. In all cases, the autoradiograms demonstrated that benzodiazepine receptors were distributed in a consistently similar fashion in the gray matter of the cervical, thoracic, lumbar and sacral regions of the human spinal cord. At all levels, the highest densities of benzodiazepine receptors were found to be localized within lamina II of the dorsal horn as defined on cytoarchitectonic, myeloarchitectonic and substance P immunocytochemical criteria. Within this lamina the receptors were concentrated mainly in its deeper, inner portion which lies immediately adjacent to lamina III, with some overlap dorsally into the outer segment of lamina II and ventrally into the adjacent region of lamina III. The lowest density of receptors was found in regions of laminae I, IV, VII and X; in particular, in lamina VII the lowest concentration of receptors was found in the dorsal nucleus of Clarke and the sacral parasympathetic nucleus. The remaining laminae of the spinal gray (laminae, V, VI, VIII and IX) showed a moderate density of receptors. Biochemical assays of membranes prepared from the lumbosacral cord indicated that these [3H]flunitrazepam binding sites have high affinity and have the pharmacological characteristics of the &quot;central&quot; Type II benzodiazepine receptor. These results show a high concentration of Type II benzodiazepine receptors in the substantia gelatinosa of the human spinal cord and suggest a possible role for these receptors in spinal sensory functions.
The pontine nuclei form the key relay nuclei in the cerebropontocerebellar pathway. Although a great deal of information is available regarding the anatomy of this region, the identity of the neurotransmitter(s) contained in the neurons of the pontine gray are not known. The aim of the present investigation is to utilize immunohistochemical techniques to determine whether glutamate, a putative excitatory transmitter, and the enzymes responsible for its metabolism, are found in pontine neurons. Both glutaminase, an enzyme which converts glutamine to glutamate, and aspartate aminotransferase, an enzyme which is involved in the interconversion between glutamate and aspartate, have been proposed to be markers of neurons which use excitatory amino acids as neurotransmitters. The present study utilizes a monoclonal antibody against carbodiimide-fixed glutamate and polyclonal antisera against glutaminase and aspartate aminotransferase in conjunction with the indirect peroxidase technique or the peroxidase-labeled biotin-avidin procedure to localize glutamatergic neurons in the pontine nuclei of the rat. Numerous neurons in all subdivisions of the pontine nuclei were found to contain carbodiimide-fixed glutamate-like immunoreactivity, glutaminase-like immunoreactivity or aspartate aminotransferase-like immunoreactivity. Horseradish peroxidase was injected into the cerebellum of four rats for use with a combined retrograde transport-immunohistochemical procedure. Double-labeled neurons were observed in all subdivisions of the pontine nuclei, indicating that pontine neurons which contain glutamate-like immunoreactivity project to the cerebellum. Based on the hypothesis that increased levels of glutamate, glutaminase and aspartate aminotransferase reflect a transmitter role for glutamate, the present data raise the possibility that glutamate may be a major neurotransmitter of pontocerebellar fibers.
The distribution of substance P immunoreactive sites was investigated by immunoenzymatic methods in a large series of paraffin embedded human brain sections from the collection assembled by Oscar and Ccile Vogt several decades ago, as well as from more recent post-mortem material. These studies demonstrated that substance P immunoreactivity was preserved in archival material permitting a detailed account of the localization of immunoreactive cell bodies, fibre networks and tracts in the human brain. Previous observations made on experimental animals and man were confirmed and extended. Additionally, substance P immunoreactive cell bodies were seen in most cortical areas and novel features were noted in the distribution of substance P-containing elements in the tuberal region, corpus striatum, substantia nigra (particularly in relationship to blood vessels) and in association with melanin-containing cells. Reconstruction of some substance P pathways was attempted by the analysis of semi-serial sections in more than one plane. Immunocytochemistry, in combination with image analysis, enabled some measurements of the differential concentrations of substance P immunoreactive material to be made and allowed a close correlation of this with defined anatomical landmarks or enkephalin immunoreactive sites.
The ultrastructural morphology and afferent sources of terminals containing substance P-like immunoreactivity were examined in the rat parabrachial region. In the first portion of the study, a polyclonal antiserum to substance P was localized in the ventrolateral parabrachial region using the peroxidase-antiperoxidase labeling technique combined with electron microscopy. The antiserum was tested for cross-reaction with substance P, physalaemin, substance K and neuromedins B, C and K. Cross-reactivity was most intense with substance P. However, substance K, neuromedin K and physalaemin also exhibited limited cross-reactions with the antiserum. In the ventrolateral parabrachial region of untreated adult animals, substance P-like immunoreactivity was localized in axon terminals containing numerous small (40-60 nm) clear vesicle and 1-3 large (90-120 nm) dense-core vesicles. At least 54% of the labeled terminals formed asymmetric synapses with unlabeled dendrites; and at least 30% of the recipient dendrites received more than one labeled axon terminal. In addition, the labeled terminals were associated less frequently with other unlabeled soma, axon terminals and blood vessels. In the second part of the study, we examined whether or not perikarya in various extrinsic regions contributed to the substance P-like immunoreactivity in axon terminals in the parabrachial region. Wheat-germ agglutinin conjugated horseradish peroxidase was injected unilaterally into the parabrachial region of adult rats two days prior to being killed and one day prior to intraventricular injection of colchicine (100 micrograms in 7.5 microliter saline) which enhanced the detection of immunoreactivity in perikarya. Sections were first processed by a tetramethylbenzidine reaction stabilized with cobalt-diaminobenzidine for demonstration of the transported peroxidase then were immunocytochemically labeled for substance P. Perikarya containing both the black granular retrograde labeling and brown peroxidase-immunoreactivity were found in the nuclei of the solitary tracts, the caudal ventrolateral reticular formation, the lateral dorsal tegmental nucleus and the paraventricular, dorsomedial and lateral hypothalamic nuclei. The projections were largely, but not exclusively, from perikarya located on the same side as the parabrachial injection. We conclude that substance P, or a closely related tachykinin, is a putative transmitter or modulator within a number of pathways to the parabrachial region and that these afferents act primarily through axodendritic synapses with intrinsic neurons.
A comparative quantitative analysis was carried out on identified supraoptic neurones of male and female Wistar and Long Evans rats under normal conditions and after chronic osmotic stimulation, and in homozygous Brattleboro rats suffering from diabetes insipidus. The neurones were identified by immunocytochemical or morphological means. Osmotic stimulation resulted in significant increases in the number and extent of direct neuronal appositions and in the number of presynaptic terminals contacting two neurosecretory cells simultaneously (&quot;double&quot; synapses). In the supraoptic nuclei of both sexes these increases were restricted to the oxytocin secreting neurones. In Brattleboro homozygous rats treated with vasopressin, the proportion of oxytocinergic neurones in apposition was not modified, but the number of appositions per soma profile decreased as did the incidence of &quot;double&quot; synapses. In nuclei of osmotically stimulated rats, increase in cell volume affected both types of neurosecretory cell and was accompanied by an increase of the absolute extent of glial coverage. However, the extent of glial coverage of the oxytocinergic neurones did not match the hypertrophy of the cells, resulting in a decrease in their relative glial coverage, compared to normal hydrated animals. The increased neuronal appositions, therefore, cannot result simply from a retraction of glial processes. The structural reorganization of the oxytocinergic system observed during chronic osmotic stimulation was as extensive as that observed at lactation. Moreover, the changes were as extensive in Wistar as in Brattleboro lactating rats, although the latter have an added osmotic stimulus. This implies that lactation and osmotic stimulation do not produce additive effects.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Magnocellular neurones in the supraoptic nucleus of the hypothalamus are usually separated by neuropil and glial elements. In lactating animals, however, the surface membranes of many neurosecretory somata and dendrites are frequently in direct apposition, without any glial interposition. A significant number of such neurones are also bridged by the same presynaptic terminal (&quot;double synapses&quot;). As the supraoptic nucleus is composed of two types of neurosecretory cell, secreting either oxytocin or vasopressin, we carried out comparative quantitative analyses on identified supraoptic neurones of virgin and lactating rats to determine which neurones were affected by the structural changes and to what extent. The neurones were identified in: (i) normal and Brattleboro homozygote rats by electron microscopic immunocytochemistry (pre- and post-embedding procedures) using antisera raised against oxytocin, vasopressin and oxytocin-related neurophysin I, and (ii) in homozygous Brattleboro rats by their neuronal content of approximately 170 nm neurosecretory granules. We report here that, in virgin animals under normal conditions, a small proportion of both types of neurone show neuronal appositions. At lactation, neuronal appositions are far more numerous and extensive, as are &quot;double synapses&quot;. These changes affect exclusively the oxytocinergic neurones. The increased appositions cannot result solely from glial retraction because the hypertrophied oxytocin cells have a greater absolute, though smaller proportional, coverage by glial processes than cells in the control animals. From the present observations, and those obtained in chronically dehydrated animals (see accompanying article), it is clear that the plastic changes in the supraoptic nucleus are closely related to the activity of its oxytocinergic neurones. During lactation, these structural modifications may serve to facilitate and maintain the characteristic synchronized electrical activity of these neurones at milk ejection. On a few occasions, we also found appositions between one oxytocinergic and one vasopressinergic neurone, which may account for the rare cases of electrophysiological interactions between the two types of cell.
An ultrastructural immunocytochemical study was undertaken to identify neuroactive substances contained in presynaptic boutons in the hypothalamic suprachiasmatic nucleus. Axonal boutons containing immunoreactive gamma-aminobutyrate, glutamate decarboxylase, neurophysin/vasopressin, gastrin releasing peptide/bombesin, somatostatin and serotonin were localized within the hypothalamic suprachiasmatic nucleus with pre-embedding peroxidase immunostaining. Synaptic contacts were found between boutons containing each of these substances and postsynaptic structures. While some variation in synaptic morphology existed, most of the immunoreactive contacts were of the symmetrical type. Previous work has indicated that neuroactive peptides may be found in highest concentrations in dense-core vesicles, to examine the subcellular localization of the amino acid inhibitory transmitter gamma-aminobutyrate, ultrastructural immunocytochemistry with pre-embedding peroxidase was compared with post-embedding immunocytochemistry with colloidal gold. Ultracryothin sections were also used for ultrastructural localization of gamma-aminobutyrate and glutamate decarboxylase immunoreactivity. Both gamma-aminobutyrate and glutamate decarboxylase immunoreactivity were found throughout the cytoplasm of immunoreactive boutons when pre-embedding peroxidase was used; with post-embedding colloidal gold immunostaining, label was found over areas containing small clear vesicles, and over mitochondria of immunoreactive axons. At the dilutions used in this study, strongly immunoreactive gamma-aminobutyrate dendrites, boutons forming asymmetrical synapses, and cell bodies were not found. Differences between pre-embedding and post-embedding immunostaining may be due to antigen and label diffusion caused by mild fixation and membrane damage necessary for antisera penetration during pre-embedding immunostaining. These results suggest that gamma-aminobutyrate, gastrin releasing peptide, somatostatin and vasopressin are contained in axons making contact with neurons of the suprachiasmatic nucleus, and may function as neurotransmitters here. Since all of these substances can also be localized in perikarya within the suprachiasmatic nucleus, there is a strong possibility that at least some of the axons containing immunoreactivity for each of these substances may be involved in local circuit interactions between neurons within the suprachiasmatic nucleus.
Neurons expressing immunoreactivity to antisera against somatostatin 14 and other somatostatin-related peptides were identified in the striatum of cats and nonhuman primates. In each species, immunoreactive neurons were distributed singly and in small groups in the caudate nucleus, putamen and ventral striatum. A detailed study was made of somatostatin-positive neurons and neuropil in the caudate nucleus of the cat. First, the mean diameters and surface areas of neurons expressing immunoreactivity to somatostatin 14 were made from peroxidase-antiperoxidase stained material. Second, fluorescence immunohistochemistry was combined with retrograde labeling of striatal neurons to determine whether such somatostatin 14-positive neurons emit axons projecting out of the striatum. Third, the distributions of neurons and neuropil expressing immunoreactivity to somatostatin 14 or somatostatin 28 (1-12) were plotted in relation to the locations of acetylcholinesterase-poor zones (&quot;striosomes&quot;) visible in adjoining sections. The morphometric analysis suggested that somatostatin 14-positive neurons in the caudate nucleus form a single population of medium to medium-large neurons having mean diameters of 20 micron and mean surface areas of 154 micron2. The retrograde tracer study suggested that these somatostatin 14-positive neurons are interneurons. Injections of fast blue into all of the known targets of striatofugal fiber projections failed to label somatostatin 14-positive neurons save in a few instances (less than 0.3% of more than 4000 neurons) in each of which labeling was equivocal. Analysis of the distribution of somatostatin-positive neurons and neuropil in the striatum demonstrated that both observe striosomal ordering. Somatostatin immunoreactive neuropil was dense outside and weak inside identified striosomes, and most immunoreactive neurons lay outside. Often somatostatin-positive neurons lay beside, and sometimes striosomes partly rimmed them. The processes of such neurons tended to run along the borders of the striosomes without crossing them, but occasionally single processes and rarely entire dendritic trees crossed from one compartment to the other. These results suggest that, in the striatum of the cat, somatostatin is present: (1) in fibers organized according to the compartmental distribution already recognized for other neurochemical compounds in the striatum as well as for its afferent and efferent systems, and (2) in interneurons, mostly present in the extrastriosomal matrix, but also located near striosomes, where they could serve as interfaces between the striosomes and extrastriosomal matrix.
N-Methyl-DL-aspartate, L-glutamate, kainate and DL-homocysteate were found to increase the initial rate and the maximal uptake of 45Ca into the non-inulin space of rat brain cortex slices incubated in vitro. The N-methylaspartate-stimulated calcium uptake was blocked by cadmium and cobalt ions, but not by the organic calcium channel blocker nifedipine or by tetrodotoxin, both of which stimulated the N-methylaspartate-independent calcium influx. gamma-Aminobutyrate increased the spontaneous calcium influx, and also reduced that stimulated by N-methylaspartate to the same level, as found with gamma-aminobutyrate alone. Adenosine (1-100 microM), ethanol (0.1 M), pentobarbital (10-100 microM) and morphine (0.2 mM), were unable to inhibit the N-methylaspartate-activated calcium influx. Ethanol (0.1 M), had no effect on the glutamate- or kainate-activated calcium influx. These findings suggest that the excitatory amino acids, because of their neuronal depolarizing action in brain cortex, lead to the opening of voltage-sensitive calcium channels, which may be blocked by cadmium, but not by the organic calcium channel antagonist, nifedipine. The activation of calcium channels by the excitatory amino acid N-methylaspartate, was entirely unaffected by the depressants ethanol, pentobarbital or morphine, or by the endogenous inhibitory substance, adenosine, thus suggesting that their inhibitory or depressant effects occur through interference with a neuronal mechanism unrelated to the one studied here. gamma-Aminobutyrate, on the other hand, considerably inhibited N-methylaspartate-induced calcium uptake, an effect interpreted as due to a gamma-aminobutyrate-induced increase in chloride conductance, that &quot;clamps&quot; the membrane potential and does not allow further depolarization by N-methylaspartate.



Selective visualization of collaterals of corticospinal and pyramidal fibres to the pons in cat was obtained by retrograde transport of the fluorescent tracer fast blue (FB) through the stem fibres. Unilateral FB injections in the cervical cord and the pyramidal tract respectively produced soft blue fluorescent labelling of pyramidal fibres and of fibres and structures resembling 'terminals' in the pontine grey: contralateral to the spinal injections and ipsilateral to the pyramidal injections. These labelled elements were concluded to represent collaterals of corticospinal and pyramidal fibres because (a) their distribution corresponded to that of the pericruciate corticopontine fibres, (b) their labelling was prevented when the FB injections were preceded by a transection of either the cerebral peduncle or the pyramidal tract which lesions also prevented the FB labelling of the distal parts of the transected axons. Similar findings were obtained when using wheat germ agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase. In other experiments FB-labelling of pyramidal collaterals was combined with retrograde labelling of pontine neurones projecting to the contralateral anterior lobe of the cerebellum using diamidino yellow dihydrochloride as the second tracer. The distributions of the retrogradely labelled neurones and of the pyramidal collaterals in the pontine grey showed an almost complete overlap indicating that these collaterals mainly establish connections with the cerebellar anterior lobe.
Interdisciplinary research is particularly difficult, because of the different frames of reference used in the individual disciplines. Psychiatry by itself show already the complexity of the current methodological situation. A fundamental epistemological problem is posed by the unity and uniqueness of the patient as opposed to the multiple-faceted traits and experiences presented to the observer. The authors show the utility of the systems concept for solution of these difficulties. They depict the characteristics of &quot;the systemal method&quot;, the way it is employed and its many applications in the clinic as well as in pharmacology, neurochemistry, neurophysiology and ethology. The systemal approach allows comparison and integration of data and results from various disciplines by means of the concepts &quot;homology&quot; and &quot;isomorphism&quot;, and may thus contribute to progress in the study of biological psychiatry. It also makes it possible to regard the organism as an ensemble of sub-systems in interaction with its environment. Finally, because of its logicomathematical foundation, the systemal approach lends itself readily to application of computer techniques.
Comparisons of anterograde labeling of axon terminals originating from short and long projection neurons were made in the hypoglossal nucleus. Injections of dilute and concentrated horseradish peroxidase (HRP) or wheat germ-agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase (WGA-HRP) were made via a glass micropipette into the nucleus reticularis parvocellularis (RPc = short projection neurons) and the Spinal V trigeminal complex (Sp. V = long projection neurons). Axon terminals in the hypoglossal nucleus, a common projection site of the two efferent systems, were evaluated ultrastructurally using diaminobenzidine (DAB) as the chromogen for the cobalt-glucose oxidase (CO-GOD) method of HRP labeling. Labeled axon terminals from these two sources demonstrated different distribution patterns of the reaction product. For the short pathway, high concentrations of the tracers resulted in diffuse, agranular labeling in the majority of axon terminals. Dilute concentrations of the tracers were associated with membrane-bound, granular type of labeling. All anterograde labeling of terminals of long projection neurons (Sp. V) was membrane-bound and granular irrespective of the tracer concentration. The length of the pathway and the concentration of the enzyme tracers are factors that affect the pattern of anterograde label in axon terminals of hypoglossal afferents.
A comprehensive classification of contemporary psychosomatic studies by their subject and methodology, respectively, is presented. Representative examples of the current research in this field are provided. Special emphasis is given to the most prominent areas of investigation, i.e. psychophysiology, psychoendocrinology, psychoimmunology, and studies of the impact of stressful life events on health. The widening scope and diversity of psychosomatic research are underscored by its illustrative examples.

Acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) has reached epidemic proportions throughout the world. Because at least 40% of AIDS victims are neurologically symptomatic, the neuroscience nurse must be prepared to care for increasing numbers of these patients. This article will define the syndrome, identify risk groups, and discuss the possible etiology. An explanation of the immune system will facilitate understanding of AIDS and its impact on the neurological system. The role of the nurse will be considered, with emphasis on the psychosocial implications of the syndrome for its victims.
This article presents a historical review of the development of neuroscience nursing. Landmark events in neurology/neurosurgery are highlighted with particular emphasis on the evolution of nursing specialties in the field.
In cats anaesthetized with chloralose, the effect of morphine on arterial blood pressure and heart rate was examined by injecting the drug through different routes. When injected into the cerebral ventricles, it acted on structures in the walls of the third ventricle and produced a naloxone resistant tachycardia through a sympathetic discharge to the heart. When injected into the cisterna magna or subcutaneously, it produced a naloxone sensitive long-lasting fall in blood pressure and bradycardia resulting from inhibition of sympathetic tone to blood vessels and heart; increased vagal tone played a minor role in the development of bradycardia. When injected intracisternally or subcutaneously, morphine acted near the obex at the dorsal surface of the medulla, because it produced the same circulatory effects but in much smaller doses when applied to this region on a piece of filter paper. Conversely, small doses of naloxone similarly applied abolished or prevented the circulatory effects of subcutaneous morphine. The action of morphine may be on the commissural nucleus of the tractus solitarius. Intravenous naloxone restored the circulatory effects of intracisternal and subcutaneous morphine and sometimes produced a pronounced overshoot, but without a preceding injection of morphine, naloxone had no effect on circulation. It is suggested that inhibition of sympathetic tone to the cardiovascular system by an action on structures near the obex is the mechanism by which morphine produces in man orthostatic hypotension and its beneficial effect in left ventricular failure.
Intracellular recordings from supraoptic nucleus neurons in perfused explants of rat hypothalamus were followed by intracellular injections of the fluorescent dye, Lucifer yellow. Following fixation, 40 microns sections were processed for whole cell light-microscopic reconstruction in the horizontal or coronal plane. The somata of most supraoptic neurons were elongated (mean 25 X 13 microns) with 1-3 sparsely branched dendrites (length 30-725 microns) that displayed numerous spines. Most (95%) dendrites turned in the ventral direction to end in the glial lamina along the base of the nucleus. Each neuron had one axon: in 60% of cells, the axon arose from a dendritic profile and immediately assumed a varicose appearance; in the other 40% of cells, the axon appeared to arise directly from the soma and demonstrated in its initial 80-200 microns numerous spines and few varicosities, i.e. the morphological features of a dendrite. All axons coursed in a dorsomedial direction over the optic tract. At this point, most axons revealed smaller secondary processes 2-15 microns in length. Axons then turned ventrally towards the basal hypothalamus; some could be followed for up to 2100 microns from the cell somata. This approach to the light microscope morphology of supraoptic neurons provides a surprising array of detail on soma, dendrite and axon characteristics, while retaining the overall relationship between individual neurons and neighboring structures, including the boundaries of the nucleus itself.
In this paper data are presented concerning the kinematic and dynamic characteristics of point-to-point arm movements which are inwardly or outwardly directed in three-dimensional space. Elbow and wrist position as well as elbow angle of extension were measured. From these data, other angles were computed trigonometrically and elbow and shoulder torques were calculated. Some of the angles describing arm and forearm motion were found to be linearly related for any given movement. Changes in shoulder and elbow torque were found to be similar to those described for movements restricted to one degree of freedom. Shoulder and elbow motions were not affected when it was required that the orientation of the hand in space remain constant. These observations were taken to indicate that shoulder and elbow motions are tightly coupled for movements in three-dimensional space and that wrist motion has no influence on this coupling. Linear relations between angles express such coupling. They are taken to result from functional constraints and may facilitate the mapping between extrinsic and intrinsic coordinate systems. Some of the observations pertaining to the torque lead to the hypothesis of a further constraint limiting the number of possible trajectories in a point-to-point movement.
In this paper data are presented concerning the motion of limb segments during drawing movements executed in different planes in free space. The technique used allows the determination of the wrist and elbow positions in space as well as the measurement of the elbow angle of extension. Other kinematic variables are determined trigonometrically. Elbow and shoulder torque is also calculated. For circles and ellipses, it was found that the motion at the wrist is sinusoidal in two orthogonal directions in the plane of motion. Angular motion, when described by a set of angles previously identified psychophysically as constituting an appropriate coordinate system, is also sinusoidal. Although the number of degrees of freedom of the arm affords many possible ways of performing the task, there is a fixed phase relation between the angles of elevation of the upper arm and forearm for naturally executed movements in all planes of space. Also, the phase of the yaw angles of the upper arm and forearm relative to the angles of elevation are related to the plane of motion and to the slant of ellipses in a fixed manner. There is a simple mapping between angular motion and intended wrist trajectory. Because this mapping is not valid for all planes of space, the actual trajectory can deviate from the intended one. However, the subject has no cognizance of the distortion. The calculated torque deviates substantially from sinusoidal and does change significantly when the same movement is executed in different planes. Results of simulations and mathematical analysis indicate that the fixed phase relationship between angles of elevation leads to a minimal distortion from sinusoidal motion at the wrist in an average sense and that the characteristic distortions observed in the sagittal plane result inevitably from this constraint on the phase relations. The results support the assumption that the topology of the sensorimotor map used for the production of the movement and for its perception is the same. The problem of invariant relationships between kinematic parameters is discussed and the suggestion is made that they represent a general constraint, leading through learning and practice to an optimal solution in an average sense.
Intracellular recordings were made from neurones in the rat locus coeruleus in a brain slice maintained in vitro. Phencyclidine and related psychotomimetic drugs, applied in known concentrations in the fluid bathing the slice, depressed responses to N-methyl-D-aspartic acid noradrenaline (in the presence of the uptake inhibitor desmethylimipramine) and [D-Ala2,MePhe4,Gly-ol5]enkephalin and also prolonged the action potential. The sensitivities of these responses to depression by phencyclidine was N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (IC50 0.4 microM) greater than noradrenaline (IC50 3.9 microM) greater than [D-Ala2,MePhe4,Gly-ol5]enkephalin (IC50 8.5 microM) greater than prolongation of the action potential (41% increase by 30 microM). Stereoselectivity was observed only in the depression of responses to N-methyl-D-aspartic acid where (+)-1-(1-phenylcyclohexyl)-3-methyl piperidine was 3.3-fold more potent in suppressing N-methyl-D-aspartic acid depolarizations than its (-) isomer. The responses to N-methyl-D-aspartic acid were also depressed by the structurally unrelated psychotomimetic (+/-)-N-allyl-N-normetazocine (IC50 0.9 microM). All of the effects of the psychotomimetic drugs examined were slow in onset and difficult to reverse following washout. No effect of phencyclidine (0.03-100 microM) or related drugs was observed on membrane potential, input resistance or spontaneous action potential firing rate of locus coeruleus neurones. The depression of responses to N-methyl-D-aspartic acid by phencyclidine was the most potent and the only stereoselective effect of those studied. The importance of this effect and of those not showing stereoselectivity in relation to the phencyclidine behavioural syndrome is discussed.
GABAergic neurons are coextensive with cholinergic neurons in the medial septum-diagonal band complex. Serial sectioning, sequential staining and double immunofluorescence techniques employing antibodies to glutamate decarboxylase and choline acetyltransferase revealed the distribution of these transmitter-specific neurons in the rat. Morphologically, the two types of neurons appear similar, in that they are predominantly large multipolar cells, but they are characterized by different, overlapping distributions in the diagonal band. Glutamate decarboxylase-positive cells are scattered throughout the nucleus of the vertical limb of the diagonal band, while choline acetyltransferase-positive neurons are more numerous medially and are distributed in groups corresponding to the dorsal and ventral aspects of the nucleus. In the rostral parts of the nucleus of the horizontal limb of the diagonal band, the choline acetyltransferase-positive cells tend to be located medially, whereas caudally they spread dorsal to the nucleus to become continuous with other large cholinergic neurons in the ventral pallidum and sublenticular substantia innominata. The large majority of glutamate decarboxylase-positive neurons remain in a more ventral and lateral position within the nucleus of the horizontal limb and are particularly numerous just lateral to the diagonal band fibers as they join the medial forebrain bundle. Cholinergic neurons were estimated to be about two times more numerous than GABAergic neurons. Approximately 1% of the choline acetyltransferase-positive neurons were also glutamate decarboxylase-positive in double immunofluorescence studies, but not in sequentially stained or serial sections.
We have followed the appearance of two microtubule proteins, tubulin and microtubule-associated protein 2, in rat hippocampal neurons differentiating in cell culture. Double-label immunofluorescence staining showed that from day 1 in vitro onward tubulin appeared as filaments but that microtubule-associated protein 2 remained distributed throughout the cytoplasm. This difference persisted throughout development and was also detectable in cells that had reached morphological maturity. When cells were treated with the microtubule-depolymerizing agent nocodazole, the depolymerized tubulin became spread throughout the cytoplasm so that its distribution was then identical to microtubule associated protein 2. At the same time, multiple side branches began to emerge along the dendrites. When cells which had been exposed to nocodazole were allowed to recover before staining, the tubulin was again present as filaments but the microtubule-associated protein 2 remained distributed throughout the dendritic cytoplasm. Under these conditions the previously extended proximal side branches were resorbed into the main process. These results suggest that cellular microtubule-associated protein 2 is not necessarily exclusively associated with microtubules. Neuronal dendrites in particular appear to contain this protein at levels in excess of the capacity of microtubular microtubule-associated protein 2 binding sites. In view of the known effectiveness of microtubule-associated protein 2 as a promoter of tubulin polymerization, its abundance in dendrites suggests that it acts to ensure total polymerization of dendritic microtubules. In this way it would contribute both to the support of the growing process and the suppression of adventitious sidebranching.
The interaction of stimulation of the cerebral cortex and of the substantia nigra on the activity of neostriatal neurons was investigated in urethane-anesthetized rats. Neurons of the dorsal striatum were activated by single pulse stimulation of the sensory-motor cortex. The effects of nigral conditioning stimulation on this excitatory response of striatal neurons to cortical stimulation were studied in a series of parametric experiments in which the length of the train of pulses and the intensity of the nigral stimulation were varied. One and five pulses of nigral conditioning stimulation had little or no effect. Ten pulses of nigral conditioning stimulation reduced the excitatory response, the magnitude of the reduction being greater with higher current intensities. In another series of experiments, the effects of dopaminergic receptor antagonists on the interaction of cortical and nigral inputs to striatal neurons were studied. Sulpiride, a D2 antagonist, reversed the attenuating effects of nigral conditioning stimulation on the excitatory response of striatal neurons to cortical stimulation, whereas SCH 23390 a D1 antagonist, had no effect. The present findings support the hypothesis that the nigrostriatal dopaminergic pathway modulates the excitatory response of striatal neurons to cortical stimulation by means of dopamine D2 receptors.
Most of the early studies on the immunohistochemical distribution of enkephalin pentapeptide-like immunoreactivity used antisera that stained both proenkephalin- and prodynorphin-containing neurons. The present study used the peroxidase-antiperoxidase method, thick Vibratome sections and antisera specific for the carboxyl termini of [Met]enkephalin, [Met]enkephalyl-Arg6-Phe7, [Met]enkephalyl-Arg6-Gly7-Leu8, and metorphamide and for BAM 22P in order to obtain a detailed description of the distribution of authentic proenkephalin-containing perikarya and nerve processes. The peroxidase-antiperoxidase reaction product was intensified by the selective deposition of silver crystals in order to display the morphology of proenkephalin-containing neurons with great fidelity. The results indicate that the magnocellular perikarya in the supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei contain prodynorphin rather than proenkephalin as had been suggested by earlier investigators. The coarse fibers in the internal zone of the median eminence and the granule cell-mossy fiber pathway in the hippocampus also contain prodynorphin rather than proenkephalin. The number of proenkephalin-containing perikarya and/or the density of proenkephalin-containing nerve terminals in several other areas of the brain, e.g. the substantia nigra, the central amygdaloid nucleus, the periaqueductal gray and the parabrachial nuclei, were overestimated by earlier investigators. The distribution of authentic proenkephalin-containing perikarya and nerve processes is, despite these errors, similar to the distribution of enkephalin pentapeptide-like immunoreactivity described by earlier investigators. Proenkephalin-containing perikarya were identified for the first time in the medial and lateral habenular nuclei of the adult rat. Antisera specific for [Met]enkephalin, [Met]enkephalyl-Arg6-Phe7, [Met]enkephalyl-Arg6-Gly7-Leu8 and BAM 22P stain perikarya and nerve terminals with a similar distribution. The metorphamide antiserum also stains the same perikarya and nerve terminals; however, it also stains magnocellular perikarya in the zona incerta and the lateral hypothalamus that are not stained by any of the other proenkephalin-specific antisera.
Amplitudes of miniature end-plate currents (AMEPCs) as well as their time constants of decay (TMEPCs) contribute to the amplitudes of miniature end-plate potentials and hence determine their mean values and variability. Larger mean amplitudes of miniature end-plate potentials observed after cholinesterase blockade result from both greater mean AMEPCs and greater mean TMEPCs. However, enhanced variability of amplitudes of miniature end-plate potentials is a result mainly of greater variability of TMEPCs. This occurs almost exclusively because the amplitude dependence of TMEPCs becomes markedly enhanced. Although the scatter of TMEPCs about TMEPC vs AMEPC curve is also larger, it does not contribute much to the increased variability of TMEPCs. The marked amplitude dependence of TMEPCs indicates that repetitive binding strongly depends on the quantal size--the number of acetylcholine molecules released per quantum, and suggests that if a quantum is the result of a release of several vesicles, then they should be released very close to each other. Marked amplitude dependence of TMEPCs also shows that, with cholinesterase inhibited, the quantal size can be estimated not only from AMEPCs, but also from TMEPCs. Greater scatter of TMEPCs from the TMEPC vs AMEPC curve is of more obscure origin and probably results because repetitive binding occurs over enlarged &quot;critical areas&quot; with more variable density of acetylcholine receptors.
In the marine snail Aplysia californica learned changes in behavior have been traced to alterations in synaptic efficacy. With the ability to raise the animals in the laboratory, we have explored the development of four types of plastic mechanisms at identified synapses: post-tetanic potentiation and pre-synaptic inhibition, which do not as yet have known behavioral functions, and homosynaptic depression, the cellular mechanism of short-term habituation, and heterosynaptic facilitation, the basis of short-term sensitization. Homosynaptic depression and pre-synaptic inhibition are present early in juvenile life. In contrast, post-tetanic potentiation and heterosynaptic facilitation appear only later, after a discrete interval. The step-wise ontogeny of synaptic plastic mechanisms in Aplysia parallels the gradual emergence of behavior in successive developmental stages. Interestingly, senescence reverses the developmental sequence for habituation and sensitization mechanisms. To pursue further an understanding of the relationship between synapse formation and plasticity underlying learning it will be necessary to extend these studies to dissociated cell culture where mechanisms can be explored on the molecular level. Cell culture may also permit examination of the development of cellular mechanisms underlying classical and operant conditioning which may clarify differences between associative and non-associative mechanisms.
Recent studies suggest that neurons containing adrenocorticotropin and catecholamines are localized to similar areas of the brain. In this immunocytochemical study, the distributions of neurons and terminals containing adrenocorticotropin and tyrosine hydroxylase, the first enzyme in the catecholamine biosynthetic pathway, were compared using the peroxidase-antiperoxidase technique. Neurons containing adrenocorticotropin and tyrosine hydroxylase formed overlapping hyperbolic lamina in the mediobasal hypothalamus. Although adrenocorticotropin and tyrosine hydroxylase containing neurons often formed small clusters, no double labeled cells were observed. Overlap also occurred between adrenocorticotropin and tyrosine hydroxylase terminal fields in several diencephalic nuclei including the periventricular hypothalamic gray and paraventricular thalamus. In contrast, other regions displayed striking compartmentalization of terminal fields; for example, in both the paraventricular hypothalamus and central nucleus of the amygdala, adrenocorticotropin was located in ventral and tyrosine hydroxylase in more dorsal aspects of the nuclei. Adjacent sections also showed a close correspondence between adrenocorticotropin terminals and tyrosine hydroxylase cell bodies in paraventricular, periventricular, dorsomedial and ventral hypothalamic nuclei. These data provide anatomical substrates for potential functional interactions between catecholamine and adrenocorticotropin systems in forebrain.
In rats under urethane anaesthesia, antidromic population spikes were evoked in CA3 pyramidal layer by fimbrial/commissural stimulation at a very low frequency (approximately 0.5 Hz). Submaximal population spikes--between 20 and 90% of maximum--were enhanced by 8-38% by applications of acetylcholine and bicuculline, or by medial septal stimulation. Noradrenaline had a less pronounced and regular facilitatory action, whereas gamma-aminobutyrate and glutamate only depressed population spikes. Maximal enhancement by acetylcholine or bicuculline was observed when the antidromic population spike was initially at 38-53% of maximum amplitude. A simple explanation of these results is that acetylcholine and bicuculline, by raising their excitability, facilitate the excitation of non-invaded pyramidal cells by antidromic field potentials. They are fully in keeping with previous intracellular observations on ephaptic interactions between CA3 neurons, and provide a further illustration, in situ, of the importance of increased excitability and disinhibition--whether caused by drugs or synaptic action--in promoting synchronized excitation by ephaptic currents.
During the course of experiments designed to study synaptic relationships between the terminals of retinal axons and the various cell populations in the optic tectum of the frog, Rana pipiens, we found that neurons in many of the retinorecipient nuclei, including the tectum, are labeled transneuronally following injections of horseradish peroxidase into the optic nerve. In the optic tectum, particular cell groups are labeled to the extent that their dendrites as well as their somas are filled with reaction product while other cell types, which, on the basis of the location of their somas or dendrites, seem equally likely to receive direct retinal projections, remain free of label. Electron microscopic investigation of the optic tectum reveals that the label is confined to pre- and postsynaptic processes. These results suggest that the transneuronal transport depends on a transfer of horseradish peroxidase from presynaptic terminals to postsynaptic cells rather than on a widespread diffusion of the enzyme through the neuropil followed by a selective uptake by particular cell groups. These results also suggest that only some of the tectal cell groups which receive direct retinal projections may be transneuronally labeled. The transneuronal transport of horseradish peroxidase is useful since it reveals the morphology as well as the location of at least some of the retinorecipient cells. Moreover, the robust nature of this phenomenon makes the frog a good choice for future studies of the mechanism of transneuronal transport.
The cytochemical heterogeneity of nuclei in Purkinje cells, which reflects differences in metabolic states within the population, has been studied by comparing cerebellar hemispheres of the hedgehog during periods of activity and hibernation. Cerebellar granule cells and hepatocytes served as controls for diploid cells. Three different cytochemical stains (Feulgen reaction, Propidium iodide and Hoechst 33342 fluorochromes) were used in order to evaluate by microdensitometry and microfluorometry how much the heterogeneity is dependent on the variations in DNA content and degree of chromatin compaction. In the active period, Feulgen-DNA values of Purkinje cells were more widely dispersed than in control cells. Some values (18-40% of the population) exceeded (hyperdiploid) the diploid value. With Propidium iodide and Hoechst 33342 (under conditions for quantitative evaluation of DNA), a few values also exceeded the maximum value for control cells. We conclude that there is nuclear heterogeneity (diploid-hyperdiploid) in the Purkinje neuron population during normal activity. The percentage of hyperdiploid nuclei changes according to the technique used; in particular, the comparison of the different stains indicates that a different chromatin compaction is mainly responsible for hyperdiploid Feulgen-DNA values, but in a few hyperdiploid cells there is an actual surplus of DNA. In view of the modalities of detection of DNA by the different cytochemical approaches utilized, this may be mainly single-stranded DNA. During hibernation nuclear heterogeneity is still present in Purkinje neurons, but with a shift of the distribution towards lower values; hyperdiploid nuclei were not detected with all the procedures used. Moreover, when Propidium iodide is used at the concentration suitable for qualitative studies, the dye intercalation is lower than during activity. Data suggest that both decreased DNA and increased chromatin compaction occur in Purkinje cells, thus pointing to a lower metabolic activity of these neurons in hibernating animals. The changes in diploid granule cells were always less than those in Purkinje neurons and could be ascribed to a further increase in chromatin compaction only, not requiring changes in DNA content.
Intracisternal injection of 30 micrograms 6-hydroxydopamine was used to destroy meningeal cells in the newborn hamster. After 20 or 30 days the cerebella of treated animals showed severe morphological alterations including: an absence of distinct folia anterior to the primary fissure; a disruption of lamination in the same region by the displacement of both Purkinje cells and cerebellar interneurons; a reduction in size and frequency of branching of the medullary tree with anomalous anterobasal branches and splaying; reductions in the area of the molecular layer, the total area occupied by granule cells, the length of the pial surface and the length of the Purkinje cell layer of 29, 21, 57 and 27%, respectively; disorganization of the radially organized glial scaffold by outgrowth of Bergmann glial fibers and displacement of their cell bodies, the Golgi epithelial cells, and anomalous orientation, polarity, size and branching frequency of Purkinje cell dendritic trees. These findings support our earlier hypothesis that the initial destruction of meningeal cells destabilizes the cerebellar surface (basal lamina and glia limitans superficialis) and disorganizes the glial scaffold, while the neuronal cerebellar malformations are secondary to this glial defect.
Ornithine decarboxylase and its metabolic products, the polyamines, are known to coordinate macromolecule synthesis in developing neural tissues; consequently, inhibition of this enzyme by alpha-difluoromethylornithine interferes with cellular replication and differentiation. We examined the regional selectivity of the effect of alpha-difluoromethylornithine administered either postnatally (days 1-19) or during gestation (days 15-17), in order to determine whether specific phases of maturation are particularly sensitive to polyamine depletion. In the cerebellum, which undergoes major phases of replication and differentiation after birth, postnatal alpha-difluoromethylornithine administration caused a profound and progressive deficit in tissue weight gain as well as in DNA, RNA and protein content. Although regions which develop earlier (cerebral cortex, midbrain + brain stem) also showed adverse effects of postnatal alpha-difluoromethylornithine, the deficits were of much smaller magnitude and were comparable to the effect of the drug on general body growth. Despite these regional differences, inhibition of DNA synthesis ([3H]thymidine incorporation) was similar in cerebellum and in midbrain + brain stem, indicating that the direct impact of alpha-difluoromethylornithine-induced polyamine depletion is exerted in both; DNA synthesis in cerebral cortex was spared relative to the other two regions. These data suggested that the impact of alpha-difluoromethylornithine on development depends, in part, upon the relative degree of maturation of each brain region at the time of drug exposure. In confirmation of this hypothesis, prenatal alpha-difluoromethylornithine given on gestational days 15-17 resulted in loss of the specificity toward cerebellar development and enhancement of effects on cerebral cortex, the region which had displayed the least sensitivity to postnatal alpha-difluoromethylornithine.
In hippocampal slice cultures, the mossy fibers from the dentate granule cells were previously shown by Timm staining to retain their normal connections to CA4 and CA3 pyramidal cells. While the granule cells of the suprapyramidal (hidden) blade remained in a distinct layer, the granule cells of the infrapyramidal (free) blade of the fascia dentata, however, often spread. This aberrant trait was strikingly enhanced in the presence of a co-cultured adenohypophyseal explant. This infrapyramidal blade of the fascia dentata largely disappeared as a cell layer; granule cell-like neurons, displaying a monopolar dendritic structure directed towards the pituitary, would migrate toward the hypophyseal explant, whilst their axons still functionally innervated CA3 pyramidal cells. Axon collaterals projected in the opposite direction and presumably terminated on dendrites, thus giving rise to the intense black labelling which was observed in Timm-stained preparations as a bridge connecting the two explants. The morphological alterations induced in the fascia dentata by co-cultured adenohypophysis were tissue-specific since co-cultured neurohypophysis, pineal gland and cerebellum failed to produce similar effects. These results suggest that cultured adenohypophyseal tissue is capable of releasing yet unidentified factors which apparently enhance neuronal migration.


The epilepsies affect at least 1 to 2 million people in the United States and 20 to 40 million people worldwide. Because the causes and basic mechanisms of the epilepsies have only started to unravel, there is still no cure for the disease. The purpose of this chapter is to present the new routes of navigation in epilepsy research, the salient theories on mechanisms of epilepsies, and their cogency to cause (generation of seizures) and effects (epileptic cell damage). In particular, it advances a comprehensible picture of the major cellular events involved in the generation, arrest, or spread of partial epileptic seizures; it also questions the major molecular events involved in the transmission and use of genetic information in the generalized epilepsies. In reviewing the many theories on mechanisms of epilepsies, this chapter establishes the connections between neurosciences, molecular genetics, and the epilepsies. The knowledge gained from such connections will certainly bear on the diagnosis of the subvarieties of epilepsies and is already promoting new methods of treatment of the disease. Indeed, it is this fusion between molecular genetics, neurosciences, and the clinical epilepsies that provides the excitement and new ferment in research of the epilepsies. This chapter also advances a conceptual blueprint for priority challenges in epilepsy research. It calls attention to the primary goal, namely, understanding the mechanisms of human epilepsies. In the most common of human epilepsies, namely, temporal lobe epilepsy, a priority challenge is to analyze paroxysmal depolarization shifts in hippocampal slices in vitro, slices excised from known sites of epileptogenicity. Parallel experiments exploring biochemical membrane abnormalities in neuronal and glial membranes isolated from the hippocampal seizure focus would be especially valuable. The role of kindling and the mirror focus in human temporal lobe epilepsy must be resolved. A second important goal is the search for polymorphisms of restriction endonuclease patterns in monogenic epilepsies in order to localize the abnormal gene to a specific chromosome. Because of the recent successful applications of positron emission tomography (PET), single-photon-emission computed tomography, and nuclear magnetic resonance computed tomography (NMR-CT), ion transport pathways, neurotransmitter systems, and metabolic processes may be constructed within the functioning brains of epileptic patients.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
We have investigated the influence of meningeal cells on the development of the cerebellum by destroying these cells with 6-hydroxydopamine in hamsters of different ages. The ensuing foliation and lamination disruption in the cerebellar vermis is attributed to a disintegration of the cerebellar surface and a disorganization of the glial scaffold of the cerebellar cortex due to a loss of meningeal-glial interaction in stabilizing the extracellular matrix at the glia limitans superficialis (v. Knebel Doeberitz et al. 1986, Neuroscience 17:409-426). The severity of these cerebellar defects is correlated with the ontogenetic stage at which meningeal cells are destroyed, being greatest after treatment at postnatal day 1 and decreasing thereafter until day 5 and beyond, when no abnormalities occur, although all meningeal cells are destroyed throughout. The absence of cerebellar defects after destruction of meningeal cells at day 5 or later is associated firstly with the end of the period of branching morphogenesis of the cerebellum when all folial primordia are established, and, secondly, with the maturation of the glia limitans superficialis. These findings indicate that meningeal cells stabilize the cerebellar surface and glial scaffold over a critical period that ends, when the pattern of cerebellar foliation is established, and when the glia limitans superficialis has reached a mature state. Beyond this stage glial end-feet alone are sufficient to maintain the epithelial integrity of the cerebellum.



The subcortical dementias such as progressive supranuclear palsy, Huntington's disease, and Parkinson's disease are said to be characterized by the presence of slowed mentation, apathy, and the absence of aphasia, agnosia, and apraxia, symptoms that are claimed to be more common in cortical dementias such as Alzheimer's disease. Conceptual problems (such as vagueness of terms and difficulties with symptom definition) and methodological problems (such as improper matching of comparison groups and inadequate assessment techniques) found in currently available studies require a reappraisal of this classification of dementias into cortical and subcortical forms. A review of recent clinical, neuropathological, and neurochemical studies offers little support for this classification system, although adequate systematic studies have not been performed.

Most of the literature on voice quality focuses on the vocal folds while six other gestures involving the laryngeal entry and epilaryngeal structures are largely ignored. Whole organ tracer series histograms of the larynx are examined and suggestions are made as to which muscles and/or forces might cause these gestures. An examination of photographs of the larynx indicates that the latter must be described in three dimensions: medio-lateral, antero-posterior, and vestibule cross-sectional area. The article is aimed at laryngologists in general, not surgeons in particular, and has implications for laryngology (being a putative model of diagnostic procedures), physiology (what forces create epilaryngeal configurations?), neuroscience (does the motor cortex control single muscles or whole gestures?), speech pathology (what is the ragbag called &quot;hypertenseness&quot;?), linguistics (how is one to describe lower pharynx phenomena?) and paralinguistics (what is the extrasystemic laryngeal component of voice quality?).


A method for simultaneous magnetic field application and intracellular recording is presented. A little used method for magnetic field application was exploited; the field generator consisted of a flat copper sheet through which current was passed to generate a magnetic field. The resultant magnetic field was relatively homogeneous, exhibiting a variation of +/- 5%. This compact, current-sheet field generator was mounted on the condensor of a microscope. The current induced in the intracellular electrode was reduced by injecting current equal and opposite to the induced current into the microelectrode. This step reduces the possibility of cellular effects and voltage artifacts due to the induced electrode current. The technique was used to conduct preliminary studies on the effects of extremely low frequency (ELF) linearly and circularly polarized magnetic fields (1.0 Gauss, 60 and 70 Hz) on miniature end plate potential (mepp) frequency (frequency of neurotransmitter release events) of rat flexor digitorum brevis muscle. The same synapse was utilized for both the sham-exposed control and the exposed experimental halves of an experiment. After 10 min of exposure to a 60-Hz linear field, mepp frequency was significantly increased by 12%, but exposure to a 60-Hz circular field did not significantly alter mepp frequency. Exposure to a 70-Hz linear field did not significantly change mepp frequency, but application of a 70-Hz circular field appears to decrease mepp frequency by 4%. These results indicate that both types of magnetic fields can alter mepp frequency, depending upon the frequency and configuration of the field.
During that last 6 years, 100 children have been treated for brain abscess at the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS), Bangalore. Of these, 69 abscesses were otogenic. The treatment included aspiration of the abscess (84% of cases) and antibiotic therapy. CT scan as a diagnostic tool was available only for a few cases in the last year. In 16% of the cases the abscess was excised. The overall mortality was 21%. Of the surviving children, 76% recovered totally. Epilepsy as a sequel occurred in 21% of the cases. The fact that mortality continues to be high is attributed to the degree of impairment of consciousness of the children at the time of admission. Early detection and successful treatment of brain abscess in children still remain a clinical challenge.
Circadian rhythms were measured in alpha 1-, alpha 2- and beta-adrenergic, acetylcholine muscarinic (ACh), and benzodiazepine (BDZ) receptor binding in small regions of rat brain. Rhythms in alpha 1-receptor binding were measured in olfactory bulb, frontal, cingulate, piriform, parietal, temporal and occipital cortex, hypothalamus, hippocampus, pons-medulla, caudate-putamen and thalamus-septum. No rhythm was found in cerebellum. Rhythms in alpha 2-receptor binding were measured in frontal, parietal and temporal cortex, and pons-medulla. No rhythm was found in cingulate, piriform or occipital cortex, or hypothalamus. Rhythms in binding to beta-receptors were measured in olfactory bulb, piriform, insular, parietal and temporal cortex, hypothalamus and cerebellum. No rhythms were found in frontal, entorhinal, cingulate, or occipital cortex, hippocampus, caudate-putamen, or pons-medulla. Rhythms in ACh receptor binding were measured in olfactory bulb, parietal cortex and caudate-putamen. No rhythms were found in frontal or occipital cortex, nucleus accumbens, hippocampus, thalamus-septum, pons-medulla or cerebellum. Rhythms in BDZ receptor binding were measured in olfactory bulb, olfactory and occipital cortex, olfactory tubercle, nucleus accumbens, amygdala, caudate-putamen, hippocampus and cerebellum. No rhythms were found in parietal cortex, pons-medulla or thalamus-septum. The 24-hr mean binding to receptors varied between 3- and 10-fold, the highest in cortex and the lowest, usually, in cerebellum. The piriform cortex was particularly high in alpha 1- and alpha 2-adrenergic receptors; the nucleus accumbens and caudate, in ACh receptors; and the amygdala, in BDZ receptors. Most adrenergic and ACh receptor rhythms peaked in subjective night (the period when lights were off under L:D conditions), whereas most BDZ receptor rhythms peaked in subjective day (the time lights were on in L:D). Perhaps in the rat, a nocturnal animal, the adrenergic and ACh receptors mediate activity and the functions that accompany it, and the BDZ receptors mediate rest, and with it, sleep.
Circadian rhythms in physiological processes and behaviors were compared with hypothalamic circadian rhythms in norepinephrine (NE) metabolites, adrenergic transmitter receptors, cAMP, cGMP and suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) arginine vasopressin (AVP) in a single population of rats under D:D conditions. Eating, drinking and locomotor activity were high during the subjective night (the time when lights were out in L:D) and low during the subjective day (the time when lights were on in L:D). Plasma corticosterone concentration rose at subjective dusk and remained high until subjective dawn. Binding to hypothalamic alpha 1- and beta-adrenergic receptors also peaked during the subjective night. Cyclic cGMP concentration was elevated throughout the 24-hr period except for a trough at dusk, whereas DHPG concentration peaked at dawn. Arginine vasopressin levels in the suprachiasmatic nucleus peaked in the middle of the day. No rhythm was found either in binding to the alpha 2-adrenergic receptor, or in MHPG or cAMP concentration. Behavioral and corticosterone rhythms, therefore, are parallel to rhythms in hypothalamic alpha 1- and beta-receptor binding and NE-release. Cyclic GMP falls only at dusk, suggesting the possibility that cGMP inhibits activity much of the day and that at dusk the inhibition of nocturnal activity is removed. SCN AVP, on the other hand, peaking at 1400 hr, may play a role in the pacemaking function of the SCN that drives these other rhythms.
Circadian rhythms in noradrenergic (NE) and dopaminergic (DA) metabolites and in cyclic nucleotide production were measured in discrete regions of rat brain. A circadian rhythm was found in the concentration of the NE metabolite, 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol (MHPG), in the hippocampus. No MHPG rhythm was found in frontal, cingulate, parietal, piriform, insular or temporal cortex, or in hypothalamus. Circadian rhythms in the concentration of the NE metabolite, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylglycol (DHPG), occurred in occipital and parietal cortex and hypothalamus, with no rhythm observable in temporal or insular cortex, hippocampus, pons-medulla or cerebellum. The 24-hr mean concentration of MHPG varied 3.5-fold, highest in cingulate and lowest in parietal, temporal and occipital cortex. The 24-hr mean concentration of DHPG varied 6-fold, highest in hypothalamus and lowest in parietal cortex. Circadian rhythms in the concentration of the DA metabolite, homovanillic acid (HVA), were found in olfactory tubercle, amygdala and caudate-putamen, but not in nucleus accumbens. A circadian rhythm in the concentration of the DA metabolite, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC), occurred in nucleus accumbens, but not in olfactory tubercle or caudate-putamen. The mean 24-hr concentration of HVA was highest in caudate-putamen, intermediate in nucleus accumbens, and lowest in olfactory tubercle and amygdala. The mean 24-hr concentration of DOPAC was highest in nucleus accumbens and lower in olfactory tubercle and caudate-putamen. Circadian rhythms were found in the concentration of cyclic GMP (cGMP) in all regions measured except parietal cortex. The mean 24-hr concentration varied 128-fold, highest in nucleus accumbens, frontal poles, and hypothalamus and lowest in cingulate cortex. Circadian rhythms in cyclic AMP (cAMP) concentration were found in piriform, temporal, occipital, cingulate, and parietal cortex, amygdala and nucleus accumbens. No rhythms were found in frontal or insular cortex, hypothalamus, hippocampus, caudate-putamen or olfactory tubercle. The 24-hr mean cAMP concentration varied 4-fold, highest in parietal cortex and lowest in caudate-putamen and amygdala. Norepinephrine metabolites and dopamine metabolites were rhythmic in few regions. It is, therefore, unlikely that the rhythmicity measured in adrenergic receptors is, in general, a response to rhythmic changes in adrenergic transmitter release. The putative second messenger response systems, especially cGMP, were more often rhythmic. The rhythms in cGMP are parallel in form and region to those in the alpha 1-adrenergic receptor and may act as 2nd messenger for that receptor.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
We have presently three paradigms of depression: the psychoanalytic, the cognitive-behavioral, and the biological. The biological has so far produced the most effective treatment, but this theoretical structure is still the least cohesive; it is also less connected with its associated therapies than the two other paradigms. The search for unifying concepts and for indicators that may point to more specific therapeutic approaches to depression, goes on. It is an exciting search, but we must guard against the danger of losing contact between the rapidly progressing neurosciences and clinical research-the contact that should remain a precious &quot;therapeutic alliance.&quot;


Dynamic posture testing was conducted on the science crew of the Spacelab-1 mission on a single axis linear motion platform. Tests took place in pre- and post-flight sessions lasting approximately 20 min each. The pre-flight tests were widely spaced over the several months prior to the mission while the post-flight tests were conducted over the first, second, fourth, and sixth days after landing. Two of the crew members were also tested on the day of landing. Consistent with previous postural testing conducted on flight crews, these crew members were able to complete simple postural tasks to an acceptable level even in the first few hours after landing. Our tests were designed to induce dynamic postural responses using a variety of stimuli and from these responses, evaluate subtle changes in the postural control system which had occurred over the duration of the flight. Periodic sampling post-flight allowed us to observe the time course of readaptation to terrestrial life. Our observations of hip and shoulder position, when subjected to careful analysis, indicated modification of the postural response from pre- to post-flight and that demonstrable adjustments in the dynamic control of their postural systems were taking place in the first few days after flight. For transient stimuli where the platform on which they were asked to stand quickly moved a few centimeters fore or aft then stopped, ballistic or open loop 'programs' would closely characterize the response. During these responses the desired target position was not always achieved and of equal importance not always properly corrected some 15 seconds after the platform ceased to move. The persistent observation was that the subjects had a much stronger dependence on visual stabilization post-flight than pre-flight. This was best illustrated by a slow or only partial recovery to an upward posture after a transient base-of-support movement with eyes open. Postural responses to persistent wideband pseudorandom base-of-support translation were modeled as time invarient linear systems arrived at by Kalman adaptive filter techniques. Derived model parameters such as damping factor and fundamental frequency of the closed loop system showed significant modification between pre- and post-flight. This phenomenon is best characterized by movement of the poles toward increasing stability. While pre-flight data tended to show shoulders and hips moving in phase with each other, post-flight data showed a more disjoint behavior.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Space sickness symptoms were observed by 4 specially trained observers on Spacelab-1. Three reported persistent symptoms, and vomited repeatedly during the first and/or second day of flight. Head movements on all axes were provocative, particularly in pitch and roll. Head acceleration data recorded from 2 symptomatic crewmen showed that after several hours of physical activity in orbit, symptoms appeared, and thereafter both crewmen were compelled to limit head movements. Firm body contact with motionless surfaces helped alleviate symptoms. When crewmembers floated into unfamiliar body orientations in the cabin, inherent ambiguities in static visual orientation cues sometimes produced spatial reorientation episodes which were also provocative. Symptoms largely resembled those of other forms of prolonged motion sickness, superimposed upon other symptoms attributable to fluid shift. All 4 eventually used anti-motion sickness drugs. When they did, vomiting frequency was reduced. By the 4th day, symptoms subsided, and head accelerations again increased in magnitude and variability. Sickness intensity in orbit was not predicted by statistically concordant results of 6 acute preflight susceptibility tests. However, results from a longer duration preflight prism goggles test showed an apparent correlation. All subjects were asymptomatic making head movements in parabolic flight 4 days after the mission, but not 1 year later. Overall, results support the view that space sickness is a motion sickness.
Reflex responses that depend on human otolith organ sensitivity were measured before, during and after a 10 day space flight. Otolith-spinal reflexes were elicited by means of sudden, unexpected falls. In weightlessness, &quot;falls&quot; were achieved using elastic cords running from a torso harness to the floor. Electromyographic (EMG) activity was recorded from gastrocnemius-soleus. The EMG response occurring in the first 100-120 ms of a fall, considered to be predominantly otolith-spinal in origin, decreased in amplitude immediately upon entering weightlessness, and continued to decline throughout the flight, especially during the first two mission days. The response returned to normal before the first post-flight testing session. The results suggest that information coming from the otolith organs is gradually ignored by the nervous system during prolonged space flight, although the possibility that otolith-spinal reflexes are decreased independent of other otolith output pathways cannot be ruled out.
Tests of otolith function were performed pre-flight and post-flight on the science crew of the first Spacelab Mission with a rail-mounted linear acceleration sled. Four tests were performed using horizontal lateral (y-axis) acceleration: perception of linear motion, a closed loop nulling task, dynamic ocular torsion, and lateral eye deviations. The motion perception test measured the time to detect the onset and direction of near threshold accelerations. Post-flight measures of threshold and velocity constant obtained during the days immediately following the mission showed no consistent pattern of change among the four crewmen compared to their pre-flight baseline other than an increased variability of response. In the closed loop nulling task, crewmen controlled the motion of the sled and attempted to null a computer-generated random disturbance motion. When performed in the light, no difference in ability was noted between pre-flight and post-flight. In the dark, however, two of the four crewmen exhibited somewhat enhanced performance post-flight. Dynamic ocular torsion was measured in response to sinusoidal lateral acceleration which produces a gravitionertial stimulus equivalent to lateral head tilt without rotational movement of the head. Results available for two crewmen suggest a decreased amplitude of sinusoidal ocular torsion when measured on the day of landing (R+0) and an increasing amplitude when measured during the week following the mission.
The four science crewmembers of Spacelab-1 were tested for postural control before and after a 10 day mission in weightlessness. Previous reports have shown changes in astronaut postural behavior following a return to earth's 1-g field. This study was designed to identify changes in EMG latency and amplitudes that might explain the instabilities observed post-flight. Erect posture was tested by having the subject stand on a pneumatically driven posture platform which pitched rapidly and unexpectedly about the ankles causing dorsi- and plantarflexion. Electromyographic (EMG) activity from the tibialis anterior and the gastrocnemiussoleus muscles was measured during eyes open and eyes closed trials. The early (pre 500 ms) EMG response characteristics (latency, amplitude) in response to a disturbance in the posture of the subject were apparently unchanged by the 10 days of weightlessness. However, the late (post 500 ms) response showed higher amplitudes than was found pre-flight. General postural control was quantitatively measured pre- and post-flight by a &quot;sharpened Romberg Rails test&quot;. This test showed decrements in standing stability with eyes closed for several days post-flight.
Adaptation to weightlessness includes the substitution of other sensory signals for the no longer appropriate graviceptor information concerning static spatial orientation. Visual-vestibular interaction producing roll circularvection was studied in weightlessness to assess the influence of otolith cues on spatial orientation. Preliminary results from four subjects tested on Spacelab-1 indicate that visual orientation effects were stronger in weightlessness than pre-flight. The rod and frame test of visual field dependence showed a weak post-flight increase in visual influence. Localized tactile cues applied to the feet in space reduced subjective vection strength.



Known cases of hypertension and those fulfilling WHO criteria for diagnosis of hypertension were identified in psychiatric patients and compared with non - hypertensive psychiatric patients. Hypertension was detected in 141 (9.98%) cases, and was significantly more associated with elder age, married status, urban background and neurotic illness. The implications are in early detection and effective management of hypertension in psychiatric patients.
The expansor secundariorum is a unique smooth muscle of the avian wing that receives a dense sympathetic innervation and contains high concentrations of survival factors for sympathetic neurons. In the present study it has been possible to simultaneously examine the appearance of the neuronotrophic activity and the arrival of nerve fibres during the period of innervation. The results show that catecholamine containing nerve fibres can first be detected within the muscle on the fourteenth day of incubation (stage 40) followed by a rapid increase in the density of fibres during the next few days until the adult pattern is reached shortly before hatch. Biochemical estimation of the innervation process by measurement of dopamine beta-hydroxylase activity was supported by the histochemical findings. Estimation of neuronotrophic activity revealed that muscle from stage 40 embryos contains only low levels of activity which increases rapidly as innervation proceeds and further, that this increase in neuronotrophic activity was directly correlated with the dopamine beta-hydroxylase activities. Possible mechanisms regulating this dramatic increase in the specific activity of trophic factors are discussed.
The effects of dansylcadaverine and methylamine, competitive inhibitors of transglutaminase, were examined in primary cultures of dissociated rat cerebellar neurons. Addition of the drugs at plating time resulted 24 hr later in irreversible cytotoxic effects evidenced by failure of aggregation and neurite formation. Cytotoxicity was dose-dependent with methylamine being more potent (IC50 = 20 microM) than dansylcadaverine (IC50 = 30 microM). The cytotoxic effects were less potent when drugs were added 24 hr after plating, the time when neurons had already begun to extend neurites. Drugs were effective in the various sera and heat-inactivated sera tested. We concluded that low doses of methylamine and dansylcadaverine have potent toxic effects on primary neuronal cultures.
The level and nature of trophic activity present in the chicken expansor secundariorum muscle has been shown to be altered by denervation. This muscle receives a dense, sympathetic innervation and contains high concentrations of trophic factors, which were found to be immunologically and functionally distinct from mouse Nerve Growth Factor. In young birds, denervation increased the number of neurons which could be supported by muscle extract. This difference was apparent with regard to E8 to E16 sympathetic neurons. Innervated but not denervated extract was additive with NGF in promoting neurite outgrowth. In contrast, when extracts of denervated and innervated muscle from mature birds were examined, no difference was seen in the number of neurons supported by each extract. However when the denervated and innervated extracts from mature birds were combined more neurons were supported than by a saturating dose of either extract alone. Furthermore, muscle from mature birds responded to denervation only between 2 and 9 days, whereas in young birds the effect was apparent for at least 3 weeks. Analysis of intact, control muscles during the first 8 weeks posthatch demonstrated that the number of neurons that could be supported by the individual extracts varied with the age of the bird. It is concluded that denervation does not in all instances lead to an increase in trophic activity, but does produce a change in the nature of the activity present, such that a different neuronal subpopulation may be supported.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The study examines the effects of polyamines on growth of cultured neurons from 6-day-old rat cerebellar cortex, by means of: (a) irreversible inhibition of ornithine decarboxylase activity with alpha-difluoromethylornithine, and (b) treatment with the exogenous diamine putrescine and the polyamines spermidine and spermine, in the presence of sera from different sources. Inhibition of ornithine decarboxylase activity starting at plating time led after 24 hr to a partial inhibition of cell aggregation with a drastic (90%) inhibition of neurite formation. However, after 48 hr of enzyme inhibition aggregation and neurite formation increased to approach the 24 hr control values and eventually cultures fully recovered. Polyamines added at plating time in the presence of fetal calf serum led to a permanent dose-dependent inhibition of aggregation and neurite formation, spermine being effective at lower doses (spermine less than spermidine much less than putrescine). Adhesion of cells to polylysine coated surfaces was not affected by polyamines. Recovery from the cytostatic polyamine effect was observed after washing and addition of fresh medium. Prevention of the effect was achieved in the presence of aminoguanidine, an inhibitor of diamine and polyamine oxidases. The preventive effect of aminoguanidine was dose polyamine-dependent, with higher aminoguanidine concentrations needed to prevent the spermine effect (spermine much greater than spermidine greater than putrescine). The polyamine effects were observed in the presence of fetal calf, heat-inactivated fetal calf and human sera, but not with rat serum. Addition of polyamines to 24-hr-old cultured neurons, in the presence of fetal calf serum, led 12 hr later to cell death. This lethal effect could be inhibited by aminoguanidine. We conclude: (a) irreversible inhibition of ornithine decarboxylase activity delays but does not prevent neuronal growth in culture; (b) oxidation products of extracellular polyamines inhibit cell aggregation and neurite formation of cultured neuroblasts, and have lethal effects on growing neurons in culture, and (c) different pharmacological effects of polyamines can be expected in different species.

This study examines the relationship between psychoanalysis and neuroscience. It argues that the Project, the traditional starting-point for such an examination, provides few substantial links between Freud's neurological and psychoanalytic careers. The neurological model that the Project endorsed was not derived from Freud's formal neurological education, as has so often been assumed. It was based, instead, on the Jacksonian model that he developed in 'On aphasia' in 1891. 'On aphasia' appears to be the real 'missing link' between Freud's neurological and psychological years. The fundamental principles that it endorsed provided the framework within which psychoanalysis developed. After Freud's death, Luria developed the science of dynamic neuropsychology, which is based on the same fundamental neurological assumptions as 'On aphasia'. Dynamic neuropsychology approaches brain functioning in a way that would have been entirely acceptable to Freud. Considering the deep-rooted compatibility between Luria's neuropsychology and Freud's psychoanalysis, it would be beneficial for both sciences if they were to collaborate on issues of common interest. This makes Freud's lifelong ambition that psychoanalysis be rejoined with neuroscience a very real possibility.
Small injections of True Blue (TB) into 4 different segments of the pancreas of the rat resulted in characteristic and different numbers and distributions of labeled cells within the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus (DMN). Composites of these patterns of labeled cells in the DMN closely matched the distributions previously reported for more extensive injections of retrograde tracers into the pancreas. However, the application of a diffusion barrier (formed with a plastic wound spray) on the outer surface of the stomach and intestines adjacent to the pancreas segment which contained the TB injection depot prevented virtually all of the labeling of DMN cells. Similarly, applying a diffusion barrier directly to the injected pancreas segment itself prevented all or most (mean greater than 99%) of the DMN labeling. In contrast to this effect on DMN label, the barrier reduced more modestly the labeling of celiac ganglion somata after pancreas injections. Several additional control experiments also suggest that the absence of DMN label after the barrier application resulted from interference with tracer diffusion from the injected organ and not from neurotoxic effects. These include the following demonstrations in the presence of the barrier: (1) observation of unimpaired vagally stimulated insulin secretion, (2) uncompromised cell labeling of DMN from other organs treated with TB plus the barrier, and (3) normal hematoxylin and eosin stained pancreas tissue which had received TB injections and barrier application. It was concluded that both the number of parasympathetic preganglionic neurons that project monosynaptically to the pancreas and their distribution in the medulla may have been very significantly overestimated in previous tracer studies.



Gangliosides (sialic-acid-bearing glycolipids) have received attention in recent years because of their role in cell recognition phenomena, synaptic transmission, memory generation, and nerve regeneration in the fields of neurosciences. It is suggested that each brain region or each neural cell type may contain a specific and characteristic set of gangliosides. We have investigated the immunocytochemical localization of several classes of gangliosides that include GM1, GM4, GD3, and GQ gangliosides on the cell surface of various cell types found in human neural cell cultures with antibodies specific for these gangliosides. Cell cultures were obtained from adult human brains and fetal human dorsal root ganglia and spinal cord and cultured in vitro for the period up to 6 months and utilized for the ganglioside immunocytochemistry. It was demonstrated that GM1 ganglioside was present in all galactocerebroside-positive oligodendrocytes and most of glial fibrillary acid protein (GFAP)-positive astrocytes (80%), most of neurofilament-positive neurons (80%), 50-70% of Schwann cells, and 5-10% of fibronectin-positive fibroblasts; GM4 ganglioside could be detected in all oligodendrocytes, 80% of astrocytes, and 50% of Schwann cells, while no staining was found in neurons or fibroblasts; GD3 ganglioside was present in all oligodendrocytes and 5-10% of astrocytes but not in neurons, Schwann cells, or fibroblasts; and all of fetal CNS neurons and approximately 80-90% of fetal dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurons and a small percentage of astrocytes (10-20% in fetal and less than 1% in adult astrocytes) was labeled by A2B5 antibody which is specific for GQ ganglioside, while this antibody did not stain cell surface of oligodendrocytes, Schwann cells, or fibroblasts. Three classes of gangliosides, GM1, GM4, and GD3 were found to be definite components of fetal and adult human oligodendroglial plasma membrane, while GM1 and GM4 gangliosides were detected on the surface of most astrocytes. Only a minor population of astrocytes from both fetal and adult human CNS contained GD3 and GQ gangliosides. Two classes of gangliosides, GM1 and GQ, were detected on the surface of fetal human neurons. More than half of fetal Schwann cells reacted to GM1 and GM4 antibodies but did not to GD3 or GQ antibodies. We recognized the presence of a specific and characteristic set of gangliosides on the cell surface of different human neural cell types and these findings should facilitate further investigation of the precise biological activity of these gangliosides.

This is a very exciting period for basic discoveries in the field of neuroscience. We can begin to hope for the kinds of understanding that will give us medical insight into the causes and mechanisms of the addictions. Such knowledge may open the way for methods of prevention and treatment by means we can hardly imagine today. Tests for genetic vulnerability to addiction, so that prevention measures can be focused on those who would benefit most? Stimulation of the production of endogenous brain chemicals? Repair of genetic defects in peptide or receptor production? Immunizations? Long-term replacement therapies? Who knows? The next decade or two should see exciting developments leading to practical clinical applications in the field of addiction.
In general, the rankings of first-year medical students on a written test of long-term neuroscience retention (RET) correlated strongly with how many of three neuroscience research presentations given within the following 2 days the students reported understanding. The lowest-ranking sixth of the class on RET, however, reported understanding almost every lecture, even more than the highest-ranking RET students did. Some of these low-ranking students were aware that they had areas of weakness, but simply tolerated more of them without reporting overall lack of understanding. Other low-ranking students, however, seemed genuinely unaware that they had any areas of weakness. This interpretation was further supported by data on small-group problem-solving performance during the first-year neuroscience course, on use of human resources during the final first-year neuroscience take-home examination, and on performance during the third-year clinical clerkships. Persistence of the problem, even after 5 months of instruction specifically designed to improve such information-processing skills, suggests that correction may be difficult to achieve. The need for specific valid evaluative instruments and effective correctional techniques is noted.
Results of the analysis of 3675 papers dedicated to the neurophysiological brain research and published during 1983-84 are presented in the paper. Main directions of investigations and promising methods are elucidated. The sections of the brain neurophysiology which are either slightly developed or not developed at all are revealed.
Transection of the fimbria/fornix, producing a 75% reduction in the activity of the cholinergic marker choline-o-acetyltransferase (CAT EC. 2.3.1.6) in rat hippocampus, did not change the binding characteristics of the non-subtype selective, muscarinic cholinergic receptor antagonist ligand [(3)H](?)quinuclidinyl benzilate {[(3)H](?)QNB}. Pirenzepine competition for [(3)H](?)QNB binding in the hippocampus was best described by a computer derived model assuming two binding sites of high affinity (putative M(1) receptors) and low affinity (putative M(2) receptors). There was no change in the proportion of high and low affinity pirenzepine binding sites in the hippocampus following cholinergic deafferentation. Thus, these data provide no evidence for a discrete localization of either putative subtype of muscarinic receptor discriminated by pirenzepine restricted to the terminals of CAT containing neurons innervating the rat hippocampus. Chronic scopolamine treatment produced a 48% increase in the B(max) of [(3)H](?)QNB binding in the hippocampus, but again there was no change in the proportions of the sites discriminated by pirenzepine demonstrating that both putative subtypes were regulated identically. Similarly, carbachol competition for [(3)H](?)QNB was unaltered following cholinergic deafferentation or chronic scopolamine treatment. Furthermore, similar guanylyl-5?-imidodiphosphate [Gpp(NH)p] modulation of the proportions of high and low affinity carbachol binding sites was found in the hippocampus following transection of the fimbria/fornix or chronic scopolamine treatment. Thus there is no adaptation of receptor-effector coupling following these treatments that is reflected by changes in receptor recognition site characteristics. Carbachol competition for [(3)H]pirenzepine binding to putative M(1) receptors in the hippocampus was biphasic and was also modulated by Gpp(NH)p. In the brainstem, there was a homogeneous population of putative M(2) [(3)H](?)QNB binding sites having low affinity for pirenzepine. Carbachol competition for these binding sites was also biphasic and modulated by guanine nucleotides. Thus, both putative M(1) and M(2) muscarinic receptors, as defined by high or low affinity for pirenzepine respectively, may mediate their effects in rat brain via a guanine nucleotide regulatory subunit.
Functional denervation of the central adrenergic receptors by 30 daily injections of reserpine (0.25 mg/kg/day s.c.) produced an increase in the B(max) of alpha-l adrenergic receptor binding sites labeled by [(3)H]prazosin. A similar increase was also observed for the alpha-1 adrenergic receptor component of [(3)H]WB4101 binding in the hippocampus but not in the cortex. No change in the lower affinity [(3)H]WB4101 binding site, which identifies S-l serotonin receptors was detected after this treatment. These data support the hypothesis that alpha-1 receptors are regulated by their neurotransmitter and may explain why previous studies have not detected alpha-1 receptor increases following 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of the dorsal bundle and locus coeruleus.





Using high resolution autoradiography, the accumulation of radioactivity after intravenous injection of [1-14C]glucose was measured in the corpus callosum, hippocampus, dorsal hippocampal commissure, somatosensory cortex, inferior colliculus and pontine periaqueductal grey. Autoradiograms were prepared by thaw-mounting 4 micron frozen sections on nuclear emulsion-coated slides, and were evaluated quantitatively with a computer-assisted video system for automated counting of silver grains. In all brain regions examined, silver grain densities were greater in rats killed 30 min after injection of [1-14C]glucose compared to rats killed 10 min after injection. After intravenous injection of [1-14C]glucose or 2-deoxy[14C]glucose, the relative uptake and retention of radioactivity in different hippocampal subregions was compared. Striking differences were found in the hippocampus between 2-deoxy[14C]glucose and [1-14C]glucose autoradiograms. After injection of 2-deoxy[14C]glucose, there were large variations in the uptake and retention of radioactivity among different pyramidal cell fields. The CA 3 pyramidal cell field retained considerably more radioactivity than other pyramidal cell fields after injection of 2-deoxy[14C]glucose, while after injection of [1-14C]glucose, the retention of radioactivity was similar in all pyramidal cell fields. After [1-14C]glucose injection, the dentate gyrus contained relatively high levels of radioactivity and more 14C accumulated in the granular layer, compared to the molecular layer. In contrast, after 2-deoxy[14C]glucose injection, there was uniformly less radioactivity throughout the dentate gyrus when compared to rats injected with [1-14C]glucose and there was no preferential accumulation of 2-deoxy[14C]glucose in the granular layer compared to the molecular layer.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The trophic effects of denervation on the survival of fetal cholinergic neuronal cell suspensions grafted to the hippocampal formation of the rat were assessed in the present study. Young adult female rats were injected with cell suspensions of neurons obtained from the fetal basal forebrain region into the hippocampal formation simultaneously with (or without) a fimbria-fornix transection, which removes the hippocampal cholinergic afferents. Four to six months later, one group of grafted animals was evaluated histochemically for: transplant volume; number of acetylcholinesterase-positive cells, and size of acetylcholinesterase-positive cells in the graft. A parallel study was conducted to determine the total number and size of the acetylcholinesterase-positive cells in the septal-diagonal band-substantia innominata complex of the adult rat, to match with the cell survival and growth in the grafts. A second group of grafted rats was taken in parallel for biochemical analysis of choline acetyltransferase activity in the grafted hippocampus. The transplant volume in the rats with fimbria-fornix transection was greater than twice the volume seen in animals without fimbria-fornix lesion. In addition, the number of acetylcholinesterase-positive cells in the transplant was twice as great in the denervated animals as in the non-denervated ones. However, the number of acetylcholinesterase-positive cells per mm3 of graft volume did not differ between the two groups, suggesting that the trophic effect of the denervation was not specific for the cholinergic neurons, but affected the entire grafted tissue. The hippocampal choline acetyltransferase activity of the animals that received the fimbria-fornix lesion simultaneously with transplantation was about three times higher than that of the rats that received grafts but no simultaneous fimbria-fornix transection. A control experiment with animals that received an aspirative lesion of the retrosplenial cortex, transecting the perforant path input, revealed no enhancing effect of hippocampal choline acetyltransferase activity over non-lesioned grafted animals. Thus, the denervation-enhancing effects of the fimbria-fornix lesion appear to be selective and not the result of a general wound-induced mechanism. These results strongly support the contention that neurotrophic factors are released as a result of denervation in the adult hippocampal formation, and that these neurotrophic factors can support survival and growth of central cholinergic neurons. However, the factors involved do not appear to be specific for the cholinergic neurons, but rather have their trophic effects on many types of cells.
Intracellular recording and horseradish peroxidase injection techniques were used to structurally and functionally characterize the striate cortical neurons in hamster that projected to the superior colliculus and/or lateral posterior nucleus of the thalamus. With two exceptions, the receptive field properties and morphological characteristics of the neurons antidromically activated from the colliculus and lateral posterior nucleus were quite similar. Striate corticotectal and striate cortico-lateral posterior neurons generally had non-oriented receptive fields which gave either &quot;on-off' or no responses to flashed stimuli. Only a small number (less than 5%) were orientation selective, but about one-third were directionally selective. Most of the cells preferred movement with an upward component. Most striate corticotectal and cortico-lateral posterior cells responded to a wide range of stimulus velocities and exhibited little spatial summation. With the possible exception of two cells, all the projection neurons we recovered were large lamina V pyramidal cells whose apical dendrites extended to and branched extensively in layer I. All had extensive (in some cases over 1 mm) tangential axon collaterals, primarily in layers V and/or VI. The electrophysiological experiments also demonstrated that some (50% of a sample of 20 cells) corticotectal neurons also sent an axon collateral to the lateral posterior nucleus. Finally, our recordings showed that many (56% of a sample of 27 neurons) cells which could be antidromically activated from the lateral posterior nucleus, but not the superior colliculus had response latencies which exceeded those of almost all the cells which could be antidromically activated from the tectum. Retrograde transport of diamidino yellow and true blue confirmed the electrophysiological result that individual cortical neurons projected to both the superior colliculus and lateral posterior nucleus. These experiments showed that 20% of the striate cortical cells that projected into colliculus also sent an axon collateral to the lateral posterior nucleus.
Bicuculline methiodide was iontophoretically applied to single neurones in cat area 18 to investigate how removal of gamma-aminobutyrate mediated inhibition affects the visual response properties. Moving sinusoidal gratings were used to study spatial and temporal response characteristics. Orientation sensitivity and spatial and temporal frequency tuning curves were determined with and without iontophoretically applied bicuculline. In most neurones, orientation sensitivity and spatial frequency tuning remained largely unaffected, whereas temporal frequency tuning was very much broadened. It is suggested that the dominant excitatory input to area 18 cells is a spatially organized input from area 17 and local inhibition in area 18 sharpens primarily temporal selectivity. An alternative explanation of our results would be that the distribution of synapses mediating temporal tuning in area 18 is fundamentally different from that mediating spatial frequency and orientation tuning, which may be located at sites distant from the cell body and relatively inaccessible to the drug application.


The distribution and pharmacological specificity of [3H]tryptamine binding to coronal and horizontal sections of the rat brain were investigated with computer-assisted autoradiography. [3H]Tryptamine bound to brain regions with up to 58% specificity, as determined with 10 microM tryptamine as a displacer. The capacity (Bmax) of saturable [3H]tryptamine binding sites was greatest in the nucleus accumbens and claustrum (660-760 fmol mg protein-1), with intermediate binding site concentrations in hippocampus, septum, olfactory tubercle, frontal cortex, cingulate cortex and caudate-putamen. The phenylalkylamine, p-methoxyphenylpropylamine and the beta-carboline, harmaline, as well as 5-methyl-tryptamine, displaced [3H]tryptamine from each of these brain regions with a potency that approximated the 5-9 nM affinity (Kd) of [3H]tryptamine binding to each site. Only micromolar concentrations of serotonin displaced [3H]tryptamine, which did not bind to S1, S2, D1, D2 or alpha- or beta-adrenergic sites. The unique pharmacology and the regional overlap of [3H]tryptamine binding sites with dopaminergic nerve terminals in the nucleus accumbens and caudate-putamen suggest that tryptamine-containing neurons in the mammalian brain may modulate behavioral functions such as locomotion.
Neurons that provide the efferent innervation of the inner ear and lateral line were located in the brain by applying horseradish peroxidase to appropriate cranial nerves. The efferent neurons are found in a rhombencephalic nucleus, called here the octavolateralis efferent nucleus, which lies at the rostral pole of the visceromotor column. Up to 40% of these neurons are contralateral. The location of efferent cells is not topographically related to the sense organs they innervate. Their axons leave the brain together with other motor axons in the facial and glossopharyngeal nerves and there is evidence that some neurons innervate both the ear and the lateral line. The efferent nucleus receives direct sensory input from the labyrinth, but not from the lateral line. The organization of the efferent neurons and the distribution of their axons indicates that their effect on the sense organs is probably widespread and nonspecific.
The responses in T3-4, T10-11 and L2-3 white rami to stimulation of different zones of the bulbar ventrolateral surface were maximal when the region of about 4 mm laterally to the midline was stimulated. A weak surface stimulation of all these zones elicited only a long latency response consisting of three waves. A short latency response appeared when supramaximal stimuli were applied only to the intermediate zone--the region up to 6 mm rostrally to the hypoglossal nerve root level (zone S and caudal part of zone M). The data presented show that long and short latency responses are conducted from the intermediate zone to the spinal cord via dorsolateral funiculus fibres with a conduction velocity of about 5.6 +/- 0.6 m/s. In addition, a special descending sympathoexcitatory pathway oriented to T2 preganglionic neurons with a conduction velocity of about 12.3 +/- 3.2 m/s was demonstrated. Antidromic discharges of the output sympathoexcitatory neurons elicited by dorsolateral funiculus stimulation were found in the intermediate zone only at a depth of about 400-2000 microM. Stimuli applied to different regions of the ipsilateral bulbar ventrolateral surface activate at least two groups of surface fibres (conduction velocities 6.7-8.0 and 2-3.2 m/s) which, in turn, activate the output neurons with a rather constant delay of about 20 ms equal to a difference between the latencies of long and short latency white rami responses. The mechanism of delay formation seems to be concentrated in the intermediate zone and formed probably by a chain of interneurons. A possible scheme of neuronal organization of the bulbar ventrolateral sympathoexcitatory structures is presented and discussed. The descending tonic activation of spinal vasomotor neurons is formed by spontaneous discharges of antidromically identified output neurons with a mean firing rate of about 14.4 imp./s. Some neurons are reflexly activated within the time limits of the late somatosympathetic reflex response. Coagulation of the intermediate zone resulted in a profound fall of blood pressure, disappearance of pressor and late somatosympathetic reflexes, whereas the spinobulbospinal somatosomatic reflex remains unchanged. The baroreceptor inhibition is partly realized through the elements of sympathoexcitatory intermediate zone because the preferable inhibition of the long latency white rami response was demonstrated in the middle of R-R interval and during a sharp increase in the arterial pressure induced by vasoconstrictor drugs. Thus, the structures of the intermediate zone seem to play a key role in supporting of blood pressure level and organization of pressure reflexes.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
A major group of cholinergic neurons is present in the midbrain and pontine tegmentum. These cells could be selectively stained using either monoclonal antibodies to choline acetyltransferase, the pharmacohistochemical acetylcholinesterase procedure, or reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH)-diaphorase histochemistry. Using these three techniques, the precise distribution of this cell group was determined. By combining these techniques with immunohistochemical staining for various neuropeptides, examples of peptide-cholinergic coexistence could be demonstrated in this cell group. Approximately 30% of these cholinergic neurons displayed substance P immunoreactivity. Most of these cells also showed corticotropin-releasing factor immunoreactivity and bombesin/gastrin-releasing peptide immunoreactivity. These results therefore provide evidence for the coexistence of various neuropeptides together with NADPH-diaphorase activity in the ascending cholinergic reticular system.
The effects of soluble factors on synaptogenesis by mouse fetal hypothalamic cells cultured in chemically defined conditions have been examined using transmission electron microscopy. Hypothalami taken on the 16th day of gestation were mechanically dissociated and cells were seeded in a minimum serum-free medium supplemented or not with the following components: triiodothyronine, corticosterone and a mixture of polyunsaturated fatty acids (arachidonic acid plus docosahexaenoic acid bound to defatted bovine serum albumin). In the minimum serum free medium synapses were found after 10 days in culture. However, the development of synaptic vesicles was very limited, whereas that of the presynaptic and postsynaptic densities was apparently normal. Supplementation of the minimum serum-free medium with triiodothyronine, corticosterone and polyunsaturated fatty acids added simultaneously, permitted a full development of synapses as attested to by the increase in number and the regular shape and diameter of synaptic vesicles as well as by the complexity and diversity of synapse configurations. Among those three factors, polyunsaturated fatty acids clearly played a key role. The ability of synapses formed in culture to respond to potassium evoked depolarization was examined on cultures grown for 12 days in the simultaneous presence of the three above mentioned supplements. Exposure for 3 min to 60 mM potassium chloride induced in synaptic boutons vesicular depletion, apposition of vesicle clusters onto the presynaptic grid, appearance of a rich filamentous network and of some coated vesicles. Return to 3mM potassium chloride induced in 3 min a massive restoration of the population of vesicles which slightly differed from synaptic vesicles in control cultures. These results show that: (1) the formation of synaptic vesicles in this system is regulated by soluble factors among which polyunsaturated fatty acids play a major role, and (2) synapses formed de novo in chemically defined conditions of culture display the same ability to respond to and to recover from potassium evoked depolarization as adult axon terminals. Thus, they offer a suitable model for analysis of the mechanisms involved in membrane traffic in central neurons.
The histopathological alterations developing in the hippocampus, piriform cortex and thalamus of the rat brain, the blood-brain barrier damage, and the effects of dexamethasone pretreatment on the brain edema were investigated 4 h following intraperitoneal kainic acid administration. The most pronounced Evans Blue extravasation accompanied by increases in the water and sodium contents and a decrease in the potassium content, were observed in the thalamus. Dexamethasone, injected in a dose of 5 mg/kg 2 h before kainic acid administration, reduced considerably the vasogenic edema and neuronal damage in the thalamus, but the cytotoxic edema of the hippocampus and piriform cortex remained unaltered. Kainic acid-induced seizures lead to the development of vasogenic brain edema mainly in the thalamus, as well as to cytotoxic edema in the hippocampus and piriform cortex. The vasogenic edema seems to contribute to the cell damage in the thalamus. Dexamethasone reduces the vasogenic edema and cell damage in the thalamus, possibly by inducing the synthesis of certain protein(s) with antiphospholipase A2 activity.
Immunoreactive neurons in the stomatogastric nervous system and in the alimentary tract of the locust Schistocerca gregaria and the crickets Gryllus bimaculatus and Acheta domesticus have been examined using antibodies against serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine; 5-HT). For comparative anatomical analysis cobalt chloride infusion was applied. The innervation of the visceral muscles was studied electron microscopically. In all three species the majority of the 5-HT-immunoreactive cell bodies of the stomatogastric nervous system occur in the frontal ganglion in which 30-40% of the total number of cell bodies react with anti-5-HT. In the occipital ganglion only two to four cell bodies (1-2%) are 5-HT-immunoreactive. Single immunoreactive cell bodies were observed in the ventricular ganglia in only a few preparations. The 5-HT-immunoreactive neurons in the frontal ganglion are pseudounipolar or multipolar. The main process of the 5-HT-immunoreactive neurons of the frontal ganglion descend along the entire stomatogastric nervous system. Some arborizations of these processes ascend into the brain and others supply the neuropil of all stomatogastric ganglia. Side branches leave the stomatogastric nervous system and form a plexus along the surface of the entire intestinal tract from where 5-HT-immunoreactive fibers supply: all muscle layers of the muscularis; the external dilator muscles of the foregut and probably some somatic muscles, neurohaemal organs and Malpighian tubules (excretory system). Serotonin-immunoreactive fibers further proceed into salivary gland and the retrocerebral complex (corpora cardiaca and corpora allata). The retrocerebral glandular complex and the hindgut receive additional immunoreactive neurons from the central nervous system. Electron microscopic analysis of nerves innervating the muscle layers of the alimentary tract revealed one type of 5-HT-immunoreactive and one or two types of non-5-HT-immunoreactive fibers. All fiber types contact the sarcolemma of muscle fibers without any obvious synaptic membrane specializations. The 5-HT-immunoreactive fibers are in some regions in close contact with the haemolymph. These regions can be regarded as sites of neurohormonal release. The distribution of serotonin-immunoreactive neurons suggests that 5-HT acts as a neurotransmitter and/or modulator on intestinal muscles and some somatic muscles and glandular cells, and as a neurohormone released from neurohaemal sites into the body fluid.
The localization and sources of adenosine deaminase-containing structures in the mesencephalic nucleus of the trigeminal nerve of the rat was studied using indirect immunofluorescence or immunoperoxidase immunohistochemical staining techniques for adenosine deaminase in combination with retrograde fluorescent tracing or lesion methods. The majority of large mesencephalic neurons were engulfed by a dense adenosine deaminase-immunoreactive plexus. Immunostaining was often punctate surrounding neuronal profiles or sometimes had the appearance of varicose fibers coursing over the neuronal surface. Occasionally, immunostained axons were found travelling towards and contacting mesencephalic neurons. Mesencephalic neuronal somas surrounded by immunofluorescence staining for adenosine deaminase were simultaneously labelled with fast blue after injections of this dye into the temporalis or masseter muscles of mastication. Injections of fast blue into the mesencephalic nucleus resulted in fast blue labelling of adenosine deaminase-immunoreactive neurons in the tuberal, caudal and postmammillary caudal magnocellular nuclei of the hypothalamus. Ablation of these hypothalamic nuclei caused a near total depletion of adenosine deaminase-immunostained fibers in the mesencephalic nucleus including those associated with mesencephalic neurons. It is concluded that adenosine deaminase-containing neurons in the posterior hypothalamus innervate mesencephalic primary sensory neurons, which are known to convey proprioceptive input to trigeminal motor nuclei controlling jaw muscles. The possibility is considered that the hypothalamus, via a direct action on these sensory neurons, may exert automatic control over jaw movements related to aggressive attack, defensive or feeding behavior. In addition, it appears that mesencephalic neurons may provide an ideal model system for electrophysiological investigations of the neurotransmitter(s) utilized by adenosine deaminase-containing hypothalamic projections.
Ornithine decarboxylase was autoradiographically localized in the developing rat cerebellar cortex after intracisternal injection of [3H]alpha-difluoromethylornithine, a specific, irreversible inhibitor of the enzyme. At nine days of age, when cerebellar ornithine decarboxylase activity is maximal, autoradiographic grains were distributed over all layers of the cerebellar cortex and throughout the brain stem. Within cerebellar folia, the highest grain density was associated with the molecular layer, whereas the internal and external granule cell layers were less densely labeled. Enhancement of ornithine decarboxylase activity by intracisternally-administered isoproterenol correspondingly increased the autoradiographic grain density over each layer. Thus much of the polyamine biosynthetic capability needed to support neuronal and/or glial differentiation appears to be associated with the developing cell processes. The combination of [3H]alpha-difluoromethylornithine autoradiography with localized injection techniques provides a potentially powerful tool for the study of the involvement of polyamine biosynthesis in brain development.
In order to study the functional interaction between dopamine, acetylcholine and gamma-aminobutyrate within the rat neostriatum, we investigated the effect of intrastriatal injection of different drugs acting on these transmitter systems on muscle tone measured as tonic activity in the electromyogram of the gastrocnemius muscle. Bilateral injection of haloperidol (500 ng) into the rostral neostriatum (rostral injection: A8920-9650(46] induced tonic activity in the electromyogram, whereas injection into the intermediate part (intermediate injection; A7020-7890(46] was ineffective. Muscimol (25 ng) induced tonic activity in the electromyogram, when injected into the intermediate part and not into the rostral part, while bethanechol (1 microgram) was effective when injected into either site. Haloperidol-induced tonic activity in the electromyogram was prevented by coadministration of apomorphine (500 ng) or scopolamine (1 microgram), but not of bicuculline (300 ng). Haloperidol-induced tonic activity in the electromyogram was also reduced by subsequent intermediate injection of scopolamine or bicuculline, while apomorphine was ineffective. Tonic activity in the electromyogram induced by rostral injection of bethanechol was prevented by coadministration of scopolamine, but not of apomorphine. Intermediate injection of scopolamine or bicuculline reduced the tonic activity in the electromyogram after rostral or intermediate injection of bethanechol. Tonic activity in the electromyogram induced by intermediate injection of muscimol was prevented by coadministration of bicuculline, but not of scopolamine. Rostral injection of apomorphine or scopolamine failed to alter the tonic activity in the electromyogram induced by intermediate injection of bethanechol or muscimol. These results point to the existence of: a functional interaction between dopamine and acetylcholine in the rostral neostriatum; a functional interaction between acetylcholine and gamma-aminobutyrate in the intermediate neostriatum, and a functional flow of information from the rostral to the intermediate neostriatum.
The development of dopaminergic and noradrenergic neurons in dissociation cultures of mesencephalon and rhombencephalon obtained from 18-day-old rat fetuses was characterized by their capacity to take up and release catecholamines. In both types of cultures, uptake of [3H]dopamine and [3H]noradrenaline was obtained which could be inhibited by reserpine. Autoradiographic studies demonstrated an almost exclusive neuronal localization of the labeled catecholamines. The transmitters could be released by depolarization with K+ in a Ca2+-dependent manner during the entire cultivation period. In contrast, catecholamine uptake by cultures of neocortex was minimal, could not be inhibited by reserpine, and the accumulated radioactivity could not be released upon depolarization. These points provide evidence for an active accumulation of the exogenous transmitters and for the presence of stimulus-secretion coupling in a distinct population of neurons of both brain stem cultures. Striking differences between the two brain stem cultures concerned their sensitivity to desmethylimipramine and benztropine as well as the time course of the development of the uptake capacity. Desmethylimipramine inhibited the uptake of both catecholamines in rhombencephalic, but not in mesencephalic cultures. The reverse was true for benztropine. It is concluded that cultures of rhombencephalon contain predominantly noradrenergic, and those of mesencephalon dopaminergic cells. Comparison of the uptake behaviour suggested that noradrenergic neurons mature considerably later than dopaminergic neurons. The results show that dissociation cultures of mid- and hindbrain, inspite of their heterogeneous composition, can serve as valuable models for the study of development and function of dopaminergic and noradrenergic neurons, respectively.
Glycine receptors were localized autoradiographically in postmortem human brain material using [3H]strychnine as a ligand. Slide mounted tissue sections were labeled in vitro by incubation with [3H]strychnine and autoradiograms obtained using [3H]Ultrofilm. Receptor densities were quantified by computer assisted microdensitometry. No specific binding of [3H]strychnine was observed in any of the forebrain areas studied. Low densities were seen in the midbrain except for dorsal and lateral parts of the periaqueductal grey matter and the oculomotor nuclei. In pons, medulla oblongata and upper cervical cord high densities of [3H]strychnine binding sites were associated with some nuclei including the motor and sensory trigeminal nuclei, the facial and the hypoglossal nuclei. The highest densities of grains were associated with the substantia gelatinosa of the trigeminal nucleus in the medulla oblongata. A peculiar spotty distribution of [3H]strychnine binding sites were found in the gracilis and cuneatus nuclei. The distribution of glycine receptors in the human brain is comparable to that seen in the rat brain, although densities are much higher in the rat. The distribution of glycine receptors in the human brain provides an anatomical substrate for the understanding of the effects of drugs acting in these receptors, particularly strychnine.
The systemic administration of reserpine to rats increases adrenal dopamine beta-hydroxylase activity, but is without significant effect on the Km(tyramine). This induction is partially blocked by hemisplanchnicotomy and by impairment of translation. The combined administration of (a) alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine and p-chlorophenylalanine; (b) 6-hydroxydopamine and p-chlorophenylalanine; or (c) alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine and 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine increases adrenal dopamine beta-hydroxylase activity. These results suggest that the simultaneous depletion of central serotonin and catecholamines, as achieved by reserpine alone or by conjoint action of two specific drugs, is necessary for the induction. p-Chlorophenylalanine (intraperitoneal) or 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine (intracerebroventricular or injected into the medial raphe nucleus) increases the effect of reserpine, but the use of a catecholamine-depleting agent with reserpine does not alter the increase of adrenal dopamine beta-hydroxylase obtained with reserpine alone. The potentiation by 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine is abolished by hemisplanchnicotomy, a result that demonstrates neural mediation of its effect. Although intravenous administration of 6-hydroxydopamine alone increases the activity of adrenal dopamine beta-hydroxylase, the combination of this treatment with p-chlorophenylalanine does not elevate it further, as occurs with intracerebroventricular injections; this suggests a specific role of central catecholamine depletion. The serotonin agonists 5-hydroxytryptophan, fenfluramine and 5-methoxy-N,N-dimethyltryptamine abolish the inducing effect of reserpine. This work sheds light on the action of reserpine as inducer and provides evidence for the role of monoaminergic pathways, with net inhibitory effects, that are involved in the regulation of the activity of an adrenal enzyme.
Intracellular recordings from pyramidal neurones in isolated slices of rat cerebral cortex allowed a comparison of postsynaptic potentials and responses to electrophoretic application of excitatory amino acids. The responses of all neurones to N-methylaspartate displayed an unusual voltage relation and were associated with an apparent increase in membrane resistance, properties that were dependent on the presence of extracellular Mg2+. Responses to N-methylaspartate could be elicited only when the electrophoretic pipette was positioned close to the cell soma and were associated with generation of slow spikes which triggered bursts of fast spikes. In contrast, in the majority of neurones, responses to glutamate, aspartate, cysteate and cysteine sulphinate demonstrated a conventional voltage relation, were associated with a decrease in membrane resistance, evoked no slow spikes, were insensitive to extracellular Mg2+ concentrations between 1 and near 0 mM and could be evoked with small currents of amino acids when the electrophoretic pipette was greater than 100 micron from the cell soma. Responses to the five amino acids were tested with the N-methylaspartate antagonist 2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid. In the majority of cells, this antagonist blocked responses to N-methylaspartate at doses that had only a small effect on responses to the other amino acids. In these experiments it was also possible to confirm previous reports that ketamine and cyclazocine act as selective N-methylaspartate antagonists. In 4/63 neurones, responses to glutamate and aspartate and in 1/5 neurones one component of the response to cysteate, displayed properties similar to those of responses to N-methylaspartate. In one other neurone, large applications of cysteine sulphinate or glutamate could evoke slow spikes and fast spike bursts, a firing pattern that was sensitive to 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate. The present experiments therefore demonstrate that all four naturally occurring amino acids tested can activate N-methylaspartate receptors and indicate that any one of these could be the transmitter at the N-methylaspartate receptor-mediated synapse on cortical pyramidal neurones. However, in the majority of neurones, these putative transmitters activated other receptor types preferentially. The possibility that this may result from the greater accessibility of non-N-methylaspartate receptors to electrophoretically applied agonists, is discussed.
Light and electron microscopic peroxidase-antiperoxidase immunocytochemistry has been used to localize choline acetyltransferase, substance P and enkephalin in the hypoglossal nucleus of the rat. Choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity was observed in motoneurone cell bodies and proximal dendrites, in large varicosities in the surrounding neuropil and in nerve terminals in synaptic contact with immunostained motoneurones. Most choline acetyltransferase immunostained terminals which made synaptic contact with motoneurone cell bodies and proximal dendrites possessed prominent subsynaptic cisterns and belong to the terminal type referred to in the literature as C or L. Substance P and enkephalin immunoreactivity did not occur in motoneurones but was seen in fibres and synaptic terminals. Substance P immunoreactive fibres made multiple axosomatic contacts while enkephalin immunoreactive terminals made synaptic contact mainly with large and small dendrites. C terminals were not stained for either substance P or enkephalin. This study provides immunocytochemical support for the classic identification of hypoglossal motoneurones as cholinergic and in addition shows that these neurones are innervated by a number of morphologically and chemically distinct terminal types. C terminals have previously been shown to contain cholinesterase and our demonstration that these terminals contain choline acetyltransferase thus provides additional evidence for their cholinergic nature and for a cholinergic innervation of hypoglossal motoneurones. The origin of the immunoreactive terminals was not identified in this study but possible candidates include the raphe nuclei for substance P. and propriobulbar interneurones for choline acetyltransferase.
The biosynthesis of oxytocin, vasopressin and their associated neurophysins were studied in the projection from the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus to the spinal cord in individual freely-moving adult male rats. Neuropeptide biosynthesis was studied in vivo by the delivery of [35S]cysteine through stereotaxically implanted indwelling cannulae using an osmotic minipump delivery system. Following the appropriate chase times, the neural lobe and spinal cord segments T1-T4 and T12-L2 were removed from fresh tissue; in addition, the nucleus of the solitary tract was punched from frozen coronal sections. The radiolabeled peptides were purified from the tissue homogenates by sequential linear and exponential gradient elution from reverse-phase high performance liquid chromatography columns. This approach has allowed us to purify radiolabeled oxytocin and vasopressin from both the upper and lower spinal cord. However, the kinetics of oxytocin and vasopressin biosynthesis appeared to be remarkably different, as judged by their differential labeling with different pulse and chase times. Additionally, the use of different chase periods following the pulse of radiolabel has allowed us to determine that oxytocin reaches the spinal cord via the fast component of axonal transport (greater than 8 mm h-1). Using immunoprecipitation and purification by high performance liquid chromatography, we were also able to purify radiolabeled neurophysins from spinal cord tissue homogenates. These results lend further support to a role for oxytocin and vasopressin in the modulation of autonomic nervous system function and to the role of the paraventricular nucleus as an integration center for endocrine and autonomic function.

Intracellular microelectrodes were used to record changes in myenteric neurones underlying morphine dependence in the guinea-pig ileum. Of the two electrophysiologically defined classes of neurones (S and AH), only a proportion of S-neurones were involved in the naloxone-induced withdrawal responses. Withdrawal caused direct depolarization and discharge of action potentials in S-neurones and also resulted in synaptic activation of neurones of this class. Both fast and slow synaptically mediated depolarizations were evoked by naloxone. The experiments suggest that morphine withdrawal is expressed in quite specific neuronal circuits in the myenteric plexus.
Central injection of naloxone attenuated the development of hyperglycemia following induction of non-fatal anaphylaxis in mice, but it failed to reverse the hyperglycemia in this model. In contrast, central TRH both blocked as well as reversed the hyperglycemic response. These results suggest a possible role for central endorphin mechanisms in the hyperglycemic response to anaphylactic shock in mice. Further, they demonstrate a novel action of TRH to block shock-induced hyperglycemia. This antihyperglycemic action of TRH is independent of opiate mechanisms.
Previously, we have demonstrated that glucagon antagonizes morphine-induced antinociception in the rat (Malcolm et al. 1985). In the present studies we have shown that central injection of glucagon antagonizes morphine- and stress-induced antinociception in the mouse. Since stress-induced antinociception is mediated by the activation of endogenous opioid systems, these findings provide the first evidence for glucagon's ability to antagonize endogenous opioid actions.
Enkephalin analogues were electrophoretically applied into the dentate granule cell layer of the hippocampus in vivo to determine opioid effects on granule cell responsiveness to afferent input. The results indicate that opioids, probably acting at mu receptors, enhance dentate responsiveness to perforant path transmission. This enhancement includes decreased inhibition and increased potentiation.
After treatment of mouse spinal cord-ganglion explants with pertussis toxin (PTX), the acute depressant effects of opioids on sensory-evoked dorsal-horn network responses are markedly attenuated, and characteristic cord discharges can then occur even in the presence of greater than 100-fold higher opioid concentrations, as observed after chronic exposure to opioids. The usual acute depressant effects of serotonin, norepinephrine, and oxotremorine on dorsal-horn discharges are similarly attenuated in PTX-treated cultures. These results together with our previous physiologic and biochemical analyses of adenylate cyclase (AC) and cyclic AMP (cAMP) activities in cord-ganglion cultures suggest that the neuromodulatory effects of opioid, monoaminergic and muscarinic agonists on primary afferent networks in the spinal cord may be mediated by binding to neuronal receptor subtypes that are negatively coupled via Gi to a common pool of AC.
Dynorphin A (1-13) acutely elevated the seizure threshold (ST) to the convulsant flurothyl, and this action was not blocked by naloxone. Increases in ST were also observed following i.c.v. injections of the non-opioid fragment dynorphin A (3-13). Pretreatment with dynorphin A (1-13), but not dynorphin A (3-13), non-competitively blocked the anticonvulsant effect of the mu selective opioid DAGO. Furthermore, pretreatment with dynorphin A (1-13) antagonized the delta antagonist properties of naloxone or ICI 154,129 in this seizure model. Thus, in addition to its non-opioid anticonvulsant effects, dynorphin A (1-13) exhibits unique antagonist actions which appear to be specific for the active opioid fragment.
Dynorphin A (Dyn A)-related peptides have been implicated in the pathophysiology of spinal cord injury in part because their intrathecal (i.t.) injection causes hindlimb paralysis. The effects of paralytic doses of i.t. Dyn A (1-13) and Dyn A (3-13) on spinal cord blood flow and cardiac output were examined in rats using radiolabeled microspheres. Both Dyn A (1-13) and Dyn A (3-13) significantly reduced blood flow in lumbosacral spinal cord without altering cardiac output. Pretreatment with naloxone failed to block these reductions in blood flow. Thus, the paralytic effects of Dyn A may result from non-opioid actions of Dyn A to reduce spinal cord perfusion.

A photoreactive, radioactive enkephalin derivative was prepared and purified by high performance liquid chromatography. Rat brain and spinal cord plasma membranes were incubated with this radioiodinated photoprobe and were subsequently photolysed. Autoradiography of the sodium dodecyl sulfate gel electrophoresis of the solubilized and reduced membranes showed that a protein having an apparent molecular weight of 46,000 daltons was specifically labeled, suggesting that this protein may be the opioid (enkephalin) receptor.
The goal of the Performance Evaluation Tests for Environmental Research (PETER) Program was to identify a set of measures of human capabilities for use in the study of environmental and other time-course effects. 114 measures studied in the PETER Program were evaluated and categorized into four groups based upon task stability and task definition. The Recommended category contained 30 measures that clearly obtained total stabilization and had an acceptable level of reliability efficiency. The Acceptable-But-Redundant category contained 15 measures. The 37 measures in the Marginal category, which included an inordinate number of slope and other derived measures, usually had desirable features which were outweighed by faults. The 32 measures in the Unacceptable category had either differential instability or weak reliability efficiency. It is our opinion that the 30 measures in the Recommended category should be given first consideration for environmental research applications. Further, it is recommended that information pertaining to preexperimental practice requirements and stabilized reliabilities should be utilized in repeated-measures environmental studies.
The construction of an inexpensive, three-channel commutator is described. The unit maintains uninterrupted contact with unrestrained rodents. Rotation requires the application of very little torque because tension is low and because the rotor, weighing about 2.5 g, has negligible inertia.
We describe a device to measure speed of movement and time at rest for use with a commercially available infrared photobeam activity monitor. This system is a reliable substitute for a human observer and provides additional measures of activity that can help in interpreting how psychoactive drugs alter behavior. The effects of graded doses of d-amphetamine, haloperidol and (-)3-(3-hydroxyphenyl)-N-n-propylpiperidine, (-)-3-PPP, were studied with the device, and the results confirmed that these drugs differentially alter speed of movement and time at rest.



This paper reviews previous findings and introduces new material about otolith end organs that help us to understand their functioning and development. In particular, we consider the end organs as biological accelerometers. The otoconia are dealt with as test masses whose substructure and evolutionary trend toward calcite may prove significant in understanding formation requirements. Space-flight helps illuminate the influence of gravity, while right-left asymmetry is suggested by study of certain rat strains.

Research with schizophrenics is reviewed in the areas of the startle reflex, subject-initiated evoked potentials, and two-stimulus evoked potentials. A hypothesis of an early (pre-100 ms) information-processing deficit is posited and further refined by results presented from brain evoked potentials during a backward-masking experiment. The implications of these findings for the speech component of schizophrenic thought disorder are speculated upon, with specific reference to failures of temporal sequencing control that may underlie schizophrenic speech dysfunction and may be attributable to defective thalamic control. Recent neuroanatomical findings of abnormalities in the hippocampus and thalamus of schizophrenics are presented, and considered as likely contributors to the early information-processing deficits posited.






Selective photothermolysis (SP) is a novel technique by which brief, unfocused laser pulses are selectively absorbed by, and cause selective thermal damage to, endogenously pigmented structures. The present experiments demonstrate the feasibility of using an exogenous non-fluorescent chromophore (procion blue) to effect cellular damage by SP. Dorsal root ganglia neurons in vitro were selectively labeled with procion blue and subsequently damaged by unfocused laser illumination. Progressive cellular damage was assessed by propidium iodide (PI), a fluorescent dye that leaks through damaged membranes and binds to nucleic acids. Graded scores of intracellular PI fluorescence demonstrated a highly significant difference in amount of damage between groups of experimental and control cells. Selective photothermolysis is discussed as an experimental tool for neurobiologists in particular and for general use within the biomedical field.


Neurobiologic research has begun to elucidate brain mechanisms of affective states and behavioral patterns. Discussions of anxiety and sexual identity demonstrate how these researches lead the psychoanalyst to broader views of behaviors that were previously considered entirely psychological in origin. While introspection and extrospection are distinct realms of investigation and conceptualization, they share common boundaries and areas of interpenetration. Psychoanalytic theory is challenged to accord with newer findings in biology and to provide important questions for further research. Neurobiologic advances will continue a centuries-old process of confining the realm of psyche, but there is no danger that mind will disappear.

A brief history of the application of computing techniques emphasizes the two-part development with expensive minicomputers available in a few laboratories being added to by inexpensive microcomputers ubiquitously available. Computers are used for microscope control and plotting, serial section reconstruction, morphometric measurement, stereology, video image analysis, photometry and fluorescence microscopy. Basic principles are exemplified by considering nerve cell reconstruction. General principles of computerized electrical measurement including filtering, averaging and stimulus generation are discussed. Computerized waveform selection as used for spike discrimination, when considered along with computer control of electrode position and the growing availability of multichannel recording arrays, suggests a possible advance in automatic analyses. With the ability to process more complex waveforms successfully, electrophysiological data such as compound extracellular potentials may usefully replace the cleaner, but more limited intracellular data. Success with multichannel feedback controlled stimulators making paraplegics stand and walk point to a developing application with much potential.
Successful pain management using opiates requires both an analgesic with sufficient intrinsic activity and an effective administration system. Most instances of unsatisfactory pain control, however, are due to failure to achieve and maintain adequate blood concentrations of the chosen drug. Newer techniques of administration aim to overcome this problem. Oral opiate therapy with conventional or sustained-release formulations of morphine provide good control of terminal cancer pain provided that a regular dosing pattern is established and reviewed according to the patient's needs. This represents a significant departure from the traditional 'as required' prescription of this type of drug. In the management of acute severe pain, sublingual and intravenous opiates--self-administered as needed, or given by mandatory dosing schedules--have also been shown to overcome the limitations of intermittent intramuscular injections. A further novel development, stemming from basic neuroscience research, is the selective application of opiates to the spinal cord via the epidural or intrathecal route. This controversial technique has led to major improvements in treatment of some types of acute and chronic pain.

A study has been made at the ultrastructural level of the effects of denervation and axotomy on the synapse population of the rat superior cervical ganglion. Superior cervical ganglia were subjected unilaterally to acute (survival, 48 h) or chronic preganglionic denervation (survival, 41-189 days) by cutting the cervical sympathetic trunk; in chronic denervation experiments regeneration of preganglionic nerve fibres into the ganglion was prevented by suturing the proximal (caudal) stump of the trunk into the sternomastoid muscle. In some chronic experiments the preganglionic denervation was combined with simultaneous crush axotomy of the major postganglionic branches of the ganglion, the internal and external carotid nerves (axotomized-denervated ganglia). Control observations were made in contralateral ganglia and in ganglia from normal rats. After excision and before fixation, ganglia were incubated briefly in the presence of 5-hydroxydopamine to label adrenergic vesicles. Chronic denervation caused a statistically significant 12% decrease from control values in the cytoplasmic minor axes of the principal ganglionic neurones; axotomy combined with chronic denervation led to a 6% increase in this dimension, which was not statistically significant. The minor axes of the neuronal nuclei did not differ significantly from control values in either type of experiment. Axotomy combined with denervation led however to a 36% decrease in the incidence of nucleated neuronal profiles per unit area of ganglion. Counts of synapses were made in the various classes of ganglia and their incidence was expressed per nucleated neuronal profile, to permit comparison within and between experiments. Normal and control ganglia showed a high incidence of synapses of preganglionic cholinergic type. Nerve terminal profiles and synapses containing small dense-cored vesicles, as distinct from the efferent synapses of small granule-containing cells, were not found to be present on the principal neurones or their dendrites in these ganglia, despite strong 5-hydroxydopamine labelling of small dense-cored vesicles within cell bodies and dendrites. After acute denervation extremely few residual synapses were found in the ganglion, in areas remote from small granule-containing cells, and these residual synapses were of the cholinergic type. Acute denervation led to the appearance of vacated or isolated postsynaptic densities; such densities were also found, but were fewer in number, in chronically denervated and axotomized-denervated ganglia.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Single units were recorded extracellularly from the external cuneate nucleus and from the main cuneate nucleus in anesthetized monkeys. The aim was to study the properties of the subpopulation of neurones which transmit &quot;deep&quot; (proprioceptive) information to the thalamus and the cerebral cortex, and to compare the results with previous studies in neurones of the higher &quot;proprioceptive&quot; centres. The neurones were characterized according to their location, their projection to the thalamus and the cerebellum, and their sensitivity to controlled displacements of the extensor digitorum communis muscle. Forty-nine neurones were allocated to the main cuneate nucleus. They occupied the pars triangularis which surrounds the pars rotunda laterally and ventrally. Fifty-six units were classified as external cuneate neurones. Among the external cuneate neurones, 14 neurones were excited antidromically by cerebellar and 8 neurones by thalamic stimulation; two further units responded antidromically to both cerebellar and thalamic stimulation. This observation is in agreement with previous anatomical evidence that part of the external cuneate neurones project to the ventrobasal complex of the thalamus. Possibly, some of these neurones may have bifurcating axons projecting to both targets. More than half of the main cuneate neurones were antidromically excited from the thalamus; three units were backfired from the cerebellum and two units were backfired from both targets. With controlled longitudinal displacements of the extensor digitorum communis tendon, the response patterns of the proprioceptive neurones were similar in both nuclei.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The bulbar relay subserved by primary muscle afferents from the monkey's deep radial nerve was investigated by means of transganglionic labeling with wheatgerm agglutinin conjugated with horseradish peroxidase as well as by electrophysiological techniques. It was found that the &quot;deep&quot; input was confined to the pars triangularis of the main cuneate nucleus and to the ventromedial segment of the external cuneate nucleus. On the other hand, labeling occurring following incubation of the superficial (cutaneous) branch of the radial nerve was limited to the pars rotunda of the main cuneate nucleus. The cytoarchitectonic differentiation of the medullary relays is thus met by a clear-cut submodality segregation.
The shapes of the apical and basal dendritic fields of the fusiform cells in the dorsal cochlear nucleus of the hamster were analyzed quantitatively. Measurements of the cross-sectional areas of the dendritic fields in planes parallel and perpendicular to planes occupied by the cochlear nerve axons revealed that the apical dendrites have a preferential orientation with respect to the cochlear planes. No consistent orientation of the basal dendrites was apparent. The orientation of the apical dendrites is not present in the neonatal hamster; rather, it develops gradually and is not fully established until after postnatal day 25. Since the cochlear fibers grow into the dorsal cochlear nucleus, establish contacts and become functional before day 25, the presence of the cochlear input might be a prerequisite for the development of oriented dendritic trees. In adult hamsters that have had their cochlear input eliminated during infancy, the apical dendritic trees of the fusiform cells are not oriented normally. The results suggest that the presence of the afferent input is necessary for the differential growth that leads to the development of oriented dendritic trees.
Lipoperoxidation, glutathione cycle components and superoxide dismutase activity show a day-night rhythm in the cerebral cortex of the rat. The highest lipoperoxidative activity is observed during the night (20.00-04.00 h). The enhancement in lipoperoxidation occurs concurrently with a decrease in glutathione peroxidase activity, an increase in superoxide dismutase activity and an increase in the double bonds in the brain cortex lipid fraction. The changes described in this paper seem to be related to a succession of light and dark periods, or to fasting and feeding periods. We propose that those fluctuations could act as a physiological oscillator with an important role in modulating the membrane properties of the nerve cell.
Neuronal activity was recorded bilaterally from the striatum of intact control animals and rats pretreated 10-15 days earlier with a unilateral intranigral injection of 6-hydroxydopamine. Following isolation of single unit discharges, each group was challenged with intravenous injections of 0.2 mg kg-1 d-amphetamine administered at 2-min intervals. Striatal neurons from intact control animals responded to amphetamine with equal numbers of inhibitions and excitations. In contrast, the predominant response in the animals with lesions was no response at all even with a total cumulative dose of 2.0 mg kg-1. Approximately 50% of the neurons in each striatum of the rats with unilateral lesions failed to respond to amphetamine despite a greater than 98% difference in dopamine levels between hemispheres. The remaining neurons in these animals responded as in intact controls. These results suggest that some functional change occurs following unilateral dopamine depletion that acts to decrease the response of neurons to amphetamine in both the intact and the dopamine-depleted striatum.
The cholinergic projection from the nucleus basalis magnocellularis to the neocortex has been implicated in normal memory function and in the dementia of Alzheimer's disease. In order to investigate functions of this cholinergic system of the forebrain, rats with unilateral ibotenic acid lesions of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis have been compared with normal animals and with rats given cortically-placed transplants, either of cholinergic-rich embryonic ventral forebrain cells or of control noncholinergic cells taken from embryonic hippocampus. In the first experiment, lesions of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis led to impairments in step-through passive avoidance and Morris' water-maze tasks, and to locomotor hyperactivity attributable to a reduction in within-trial habituation. The ventral forebrain grafts, but not the noncholinergic hippocampal grafts, significantly ameliorated the deficits of passive avoidance retention, and of water-maze spatial accuracy, but had no effect on the acquisition impairments in either task, nor on the habituation deficit in locomotor activity of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis lesioned rats. In the second experiment, the lesions induced contralateral sensory neglect and ipsilateral turning biases, which were also partially ameliorated by the ventral forebrain grafts. The results support the hypothesis that the basal forebrain-neocortical cholinergic system contributes to certain memory processes, but suggest a more general role for this system in other cortical functions also.
Unilateral ibotenic acid lesions of the rat nucleus basalis magnocellularis produce approximately 60% depletion of choline acetyltransferase activity in ipsilateral frontal and frontoparietal neocortex. This depletion, which represents the loss of most of the extrinsic neocortical cholinergic input, is stable for at least 6 months. Embryonic ventral forebrain neurons survive transplantation to such cholinergically denervated neocortex. Cholinergic cells abound within these transplants and appear able to reinnervate the cholinergically depleted host cortex, as assessed histochemically and by measurement of choline acetyltransferase activity. Outgrowing fibres may extend beyond 2 mm from the grafts and often appear to be organized in an appropriate laminar pattern within the host cortex. Peptidergic neurons are sparse within the grafts and their fibres frequently appear unable to grow into the host tissue. Control grafts of non-cholinergic embryonic hippocampal cells survive well but have no effect on cortical depletions of acetylcholinesterase or choline acetyltransferase activity. Reconstruction of the extrinsic cholinergic input to the cortex by transplantation provides a useful tool for understanding the functions of this pathway.
Topographical relationships of neurosecretory axons with the capillaries of the primary portal plexus were studied in the median eminence of rats from the 14th fetal till the 9th postnatal day by means of electron microscopy combined with morphometric analysis. Special attention was given to the light and electron microscopic immunocytochemical examination of luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone projections to the median eminence. Neurosecretory axons possessing secretory granules and clear microvesicles were first observed in the median eminence at the 14th fetal day. However, all of them were situated at a distance from the primary portal plexus. By the 20th fetal day, neurosecretory axons reached the external basal lamina of the primary portal plexus giving rise to so-called axovascular contacts. Some axons even penetrated into the perivascular space, apparently facilitating the neurohormone delivery into the hypophysial portal circulation. From that time on, both the number of the axons abutting on the external basal lamina and the entire area of axovascular contacts increased gradually. As to luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone axons, they grew into the median eminence from the 18th fetal day concentrating in older fetuses and neonates either over the primary portal plexus, or around the infundibular recess of the 3rd ventricle. After birth, the concentration and distribution of luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone axons within the median eminence became similar to those of adults. Luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone axons were found to arise from the neurons of septopreoptic area including the diagonal band of Broca. These data suggest the onset of neurohormone release in the median eminence from the 14th fetal day followed by the establishment of the hypothalamic control over the pituitary functions during the perinatal period in rats.
gamma-Aminobutyrate containing structures in the cerebral and cerebellar cortex of the rat were visualized by an immunocytochemical method using glutaraldehyde fixation and an antiserum developed against a gamma-aminobutyrate-glutaraldehyde-protein conjugate. Labelled elements (perikarya and cell processes) were observed to be distributed throughout the layers of the cerebral cortex in a pattern similar to that described using glutamate decarboxylase immunocytochemistry. The morphological features of many immunoreactive cell bodies were typical of stellate neurons. In the cerebellar cortex, Purkinje, basket, Golgi and stellate, cell bodies were found to be immunoreactive along with numerous labelled neuronal processes. At the ultrastructural level, the labelled processes in both areas corresponded to immunoreactive dendrites and fibres. Labelled synaptic boutons, generally of the symmetrical type, could also be seen in contact with positive or negative cell bodies and dendrites. In the cerebellum, glomeruli could be clearly identified including mossy fibres surrounded by unlabelled dendrites in contact with immunoreactive terminals. At the subcellular level in both brain regions, the areas occupied by the Golgi apparatus were never labelled, although the nuclei had varied reactions. The strong glutaraldehyde fixation that limits the diffusion of gamma-aminobutyrate limits also antibody diffusion. However, this fixation is compatible with a good morphological preservation and should enable immunocytochemistry studies to be compared to other methods such as autoradiography.
Retrograde dye staining, enkephalin immunocytochemistry and nerve lesion paradigms were used to determine if penile neurons in the pelvic plexus are innervated by fibers in the hypogastric nerve. In the intact major pelvic ganglion of the rat, some 80% of penile neurons are enclosed by an enkephalin-positive fiber plexus. Following surgical interruption of the pelvic nerve, 20% of penile neurons were still surrounded by an enkephalin plexus. After interruption of the pelvic nerve and the hypogastric nerve, the enkephalin plexus in the ganglion was virtually absent, including the plexus around penile neurons. Therefore, possible intrinsic sources of the enkephalin fibers such as enkephalin-positive principal neurons and small intensely fluorescent cells, do not account for the delicate enkephalin fiber system in the pelvic ganglion. It is concluded that the pelvic nerve is the major source of preganglionic innervation to penile neurons in the major pelvic ganglion. However, it is significant that the hypogastric nerve is preganglionic to about 20% of penile neurons. The pathway through the hypogastric nerve may represent an alternate vasodilator system to penile erectile tissue.
The effects of stimulation of the interstitial nucleus of Ramn y Cajal, as well as the nucleus of Darkschewitsch, inferior olive and nucleus reticularis tegmenti pontis on the neuronal activity of the lateral vestibular nucleus of Deiters were studied by means of an intracellular recording technique. Stimulation of these structures is shown to lead to antidromic and orthodromic activation of Deiters' neurons. Collaterals of vestibulospinal neurons entering these structures are revealed electrophysiologically. It was shown that stimulation of the rostral part of the inferior olive evoked in Deiters' neurons predominantly antidromic responses, whereas stimulation of the caudal part of the inferior olive leads mostly to synaptic activation. Stimulation of Ramn y Cajal's and Darkschewitsch's nuclei evokes mono- and/or polysynaptic excitatory and inhibitory postsynaptic potentials in Deiters' neurons. Mono-, oligo- and/or polysynaptic inhibitory postsynaptic potentials were also evoked by stimulation of nucleus reticularis tegmenti pontis, as well as the rostral and particularly, caudal parts of the inferior olive. Stimulation of the caudal part of the inferior olive evoked mono-, oligo- and/or polysynaptic excitatory postsynaptic potentials in Deiters' neurons. Convergence of influences from the stimulated structures on the vestibular neurons under study was shown. A topical correlation between Deiters' nucleus and the brainstem nuclei mentioned above was found. The presence of inhibitory and excitatory interaction of these structures with Deiters' nucleus was established.
Repeated administration of monoamine oxidase inhibitors induces a transient decrease in the firing rate of serotoninergic neurons followed by complete recovery, whereas it results in a persistent reduction of the firing rate of noradrenergic neurons. Under these conditions, serotoninergic, but not noradrenergic, neurons undergo a desensitization of their somatic autoreceptors. Serotoninergic neurons therefore show the capacity to free themselves from their autoregulatory control, a property which noradrenergic neurons appear to be lacking. The time course of the recovery in the firing rate of the serotoninergic neurons is consistent with the delayed antidepressant effect of monoamine oxidase inhibitors.
A low volume (tissue holder, 100 microliter; dead space, 300 microliter) perfusion system has been developed for measuring [3H]noradrenaline release from isolated median eminence, where supramaximal electrical field stimulation can be applied. In tissue preloaded with [3H]noradrenaline, the resting release (0.4-2% of the content) was enhanced by electrical stimulation (2-10-fold increase). That the released radioactivity in response to electrical stimulation is mainly due to release of [3H]noradrenaline was confirmed by high pressure liquid chromatography combined with radiochemical detection. Evidence has been obtained that of the stimulation-evoked release of radioactivity 70-80 percent originates from noradrenergic neurons, however, the release observed at rest was not affected by 6-hydroxydopamine pretreatment. 6-Hydroxydopamine pretreatment selectively reduced the concentration of noradrenaline of the median eminence without affecting its dopamine content. The release evoked by electrical stimulation was [Ca2+]- and tetrodotoxin-sensitive. 4-Aminopyridine enhanced both the resting and stimulation-evoked release. The ratio between the amount of [3H]noradrenaline released by two consecutive stimulation periods at 2 Hz (120 shocks) was constant, 0.94 +/- 0.08. In contrast with other noradrenergic axon terminals, the release of [3H]noradrenaline in the median eminence was not subject to negative feedback modulation, yohimbine and xylazine had no effect. This conclusion was substantiated by in vivo study showing that yohimbine, an alpha2-adrenoceptor antagonist enhanced the turnover rate of noradrenaline in the cortex but not in the median eminence. Since noradrenergic axon terminals in the median eminence do not make synaptic contact and the released noradrenaline does not modulate its own release via alpha2-adrenoceptors, it is an interesting anatomical arrangement: the modulatory alpha2-adrenoceptors are located exclusively on the terminals of the hormone-containing neurons.
Magnocellular neurons in rat hypothalamic slices are known to exhibit dye coupling: the transfer of the fluorescent dye, Lucifer Yellow, from an intracellularly-injected neuron to one or more nearby neurons. The question of the hormonal identity of coupled cells and the possibility of dye coupling as an artefact led us to determine the immunoreactivity of dye-coupled magnocellular neurons in the paraventricular nucleus of the rat hypothalamus using antisera to oxytocin- and vasopressin-associated neurophysins. In 23 pairs, one triplet, and one quadruplet, immunoreactivity to one or the other antiserum was always exclusive, and dye coupling was always homotypic, that is, coupled neurons in each instance were reactive to the same antiserum. The quadruplet, triplet and 17 pairs were immunoreactive to vasopressin-associated neurophysin, and oxytoxin-associated neurophysin immunoreactivity was observed in the remaining pairs. Immunoreactivity to each antiserum was found for somasomatic and non somasomatic modes of coupling and for coupled neurons in the three magnocellular areas of the nucleus. A relationship between mode of coupling and hormone content was not detected. The data support the hypothesis that coupling is a real, functionally significant mechanism for coordinating neuronal activity in this nucleus, particularly under conditions of high hormone demand. They do not support the idea that coupling is artefact. The possibility of a relationship between hormone content and mode of coupling, and the projection pathway(s) of the coupled neurons of each type require further study.
Using antisera generated in rabbits against rat atriopeptin III [alpha-rANP(5-28)] and human alpha-atrial natriuretic polypeptide we mapped the distribution of atrial natriuretic factor-like immunoreactivity throughout the rat central nervous system. Cell bodies were observed in the telencephalon (nucleus interstitialis striae terminalis and between the amygdala centralis and medialis), throughout the diencephalon in all nuclei of the &quot;anteroventral third ventricle&quot;, the base of the hypothalamus, the subzona incerta area, the medial forebrain bundle and the medial habenula, in the mesencephalon (mamillary body, substantia nigra lateralis, dorsal and ventral parabrachial nuclei) and very sparse in the medulla oblongata along the fourth ventricle towards the vestibular nuclei, the nucleus tractus solitarii and nervi trigemini. Fibers were present wherever cell bodies were located. The highest relative densities were observed in the anteroventral third ventricle area and the medial habenula. Sparse fibers were also seen in the spinal cord (dorsal and ventral horn and around the central canal) and in the posterior pituitary. The predominance of the atrial natriuretic factor-like perikarya and fibers in the anteroventral third ventricle area suggests an involvement of this peptide in central blood pressure control.
The acute and long-term changes following large neostriatal ibotenic acid lesions and intrastriatal striatal neuronal grafting have been studied neurochemically by determinations of the gamma-aminobutyrate (GABA) and acetylcholine-synthetic enzymes, glutamate decarboxylase and choline acetyltransferase, and of dopamine and its primary acidic metabolite, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid. The neurochemical data have been matched with estimates of tissue volume changes and striatal graft development through tissue weight and protein content analysis and histological volumetric measurements. Injections of 20 micrograms ibotenic acid, deposited over four injection sites in the head of the caudate-putamen, had by one week caused a 70-85% reduction in glutamate decarboxylase and choline acetyltransferase activity. With time there was a progressive recovery of the specific enzyme activities in the lesioned areas (expressed per microgram protein or per mg wet weight) to 40-60% of control levels as determined at 20 weeks post-lesion in the caudate-putamen. This increase was, however, largely if not exclusively due to the long-term shrinkage of the lesioned caudate-putamen, amounting to 50-70% at 20 weeks. Thus, the total glutamate decarboxylase and choline acetyltransferase activity levels in the lesioned caudate-putamen remained virtually unchanged (between 15 and 25% of control) over the 20 week experimental period. Glutamate decarboxylase activity was also markedly reduced (35-70%) in the two primary striatal projection areas, globus pallidus and substantia nigra, and there were no signs of recovery over time. Striatal dopamine levels, which were acutely unaffected by the lesion, showed a slow decline so that the total dopamine content in the area was reduced by about 80% at 20 weeks. Suspended striatal neurons obtained from the striatal primordia of 14-15-day-old rat fetuses, injected into the previously lesioned caudate-putamen, survived and established a new striatum-like structure at the site of the ibotenic acid lesion. The final volume of the graft tissue reached up to about 10 mm3 in volume and reduced striatal atrophy on average from about 50 to 70% of normal control in the rats with lesions to about 30-40% in the animals with grafts. In the rats with grafts, there was a significant recovery of glutamate decarboxylase and choline acetyltransferase activities not only in the lesioned caudate-putamen, containing the graft (from 20-25% to 40-50%, when expressed as total enzyme activity levels), but also the glutamate decarboxylase activity in the globus pallidus, a structure located at a distance from the graft.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
In free-moving male rats, when the hippocampal theta rhythm is artificially driven by stimulation in the septum at frequencies between 5 and 10 Hz, the function relating frequency to the threshold current required to drive the theta rhythm has a minimum at 7.7 Hz. This minimum is eliminated by anxiolytic drugs. Dose-response curves for this effect are reported for chlordiazepoxide, diazepam and meprobamate. The effect of meprobamate was reversed by two gamma-aminobutyrateA antagonists, picrotoxin and bicuculline, which have previously been shown to be without effects of their own. The gamma-aminobutyrateB agonist, baclofen, also without effect on its own, blocked the elimination of the 7.7-Hz minimum caused by the gamma-aminobutyrateA agonist, muscimol. The beta-carboline, ethyl-beta-carboline-3-carboxylate, had mixed agonist/antagonist properties, blocking the effects of chlordiazepoxide, diazepam and muscimol (though not sodium amylobarbitone) but itself acting like a benzodiazepine. Coupled with earlier data, these findings support a role for gamma-aminobutyrate receptors in mediating the effects of anxiolytic drugs.
The properties of cortical cerebral neurons have been studied and compared in 2, 22 and 26 month-old Sprague-Dawley rats, using electrophysiological techniques. The mean spontaneous activity of the neurons in old animals (unidentified as well as pyramidal tract neurons) was not different from that of young adult rats. In contrast the mean latency of the antidromic response of pyramidal tract neurons to pyramidal tract stimulation was significantly longer in 26 month-old animals. No difference was observed in the effects of the excitatory amino acid glutamate applied by iontophoresis. The percentage of cortical neurons excited by the iontophoretic application of acetylcholine was similar in young and old animals. Neither the laminar distribution, nor the individual sensitivity of these neurons to acetylcholine were found to be modified. The pharmacological properties of the acetylcholine-induced excitations were unchanged, exhibiting muscarinic as well as nicotinic properties. These results are consistent with the suggestion that the impairment of the cholinergic system with aging is for a large part presynaptic. They also emphasize the fact that several physiological and pharmacological properties of the cerebral cortical neurons show little change with age in Sprague-Dawley rats.
The dominance hierarchy has repercussions for a monkey's sexual behaviour and endocrine state. Here we report on neural mechanisms that are sensitive to a monkey's status in the social hierarchy, and which may regulate not only its endocrine function but its sexual responsiveness to its own hormones. During the initial phase of group formation, 5-hydroxyindole acetic acid, the metabolite of serotonin, increases in the cerebrospinal fluid of monkeys which become subordinate (all groups), but decreases in monkeys which become dominant (two out of three groups) and shows no changes in intermediate-ranking animals (five out of seven). Homovanillic acid, a metabolite of dopamine, may also increase in the cerebrospinal fluid of monkeys that become subordinate (two out three groups). In the initial period of group formation these changes in transmitter metabolites do not parallel changes in cortisol. However, in the established social groups, both 5-hydroxyindole acetic acid and plasma cortisol are related to the social hierarchy, being greater in those monkeys that are subordinate, but homovanillic acid shows no consistent change. Although subordinate monkeys receive more aggression than others in their group, fluctuations in 5-hydroxyindole acetic acid do not correlate with aggressive behaviour, and are equally high on days when no aggression occurs. Dominant males, however, had higher 5-hydroxyindole acetic acid levels on days when they were involved in agonistic encounters. In the established social hierarchy therefore, elevated levels of the serotonin metabolite in cerebrospinal fluid seem reflect a &quot;state&quot;-dependent consequence of occupying a position of low social status.
Foetal mouse hippocampal primordia from mice homozygous for the Thy-1.1 allele were transplanted into the hippocampal region of adult histocompatible mice, homozygous for the Thy-1.2 allele. After survival periods of two months to one year the transplants consisted of a discrete tissue mass, well fused with the host, and distinguished from it by an intense Thy-1.1 immunoreactivity of the neuropil. The host hippocampus was entirely negative for Thy-1.1 immunoreactivity except for well defined projections arising from the transplant. These projections had three different patterns of distribution in the host: (1) a mossy-fibre-like distribution (to the stratum lucidum of field CA3); (2) a fimbria-like distribution (to the stratum oriens and stratum radiatum of fields CA1 and CA3), and (3) a commissural/association-like distribution (to the inner stratum moleculare of the dentate gyrus). Analysis of the position of the transplants and their component cell types indicated that, for each of the three distribution patterns, three conditions had to be fulfilled: (1) the transplant had to contain the appropriate type of cell (granule cells for mossy fibre projections, and larger pyramid-like cells for the other two); (2) the transplant neurons giving rise to the projection had to lie in direct contact with the host field to be innervated, and (3) the terminal field had to be specifically denervated. Thus, for three fibre systems the patterns of transplant-to-host projections observe rules of organization comparable to those of the normal hippocampal circuitry. This implies that in the adult host brain there remain (or there can be elicited) the molecular cues capable of establishing patterns of neuronal connectivity comparable to those formed during normal development.
Intracellular recordings were made from dissociated mouse spinal cord cells in primary culture. One type of spinal cord neurone, with a large cell body (40-50 micron), 3-5 short neurites, and a mean resting potential of -65 mV, was found to fire rhythmic bursts of action potentials with a phase duration of approximately 1s when the membrane potential was depolarized to -55 mV. These bursts did not arise from spontaneous synaptic input, but appeared to result from endogenous ionic conductance properties of the membrane resembling those observed in molluscan bursting pacemaker neurones. Ionic conductances underlying this bursting activity were studied pharmacologically by local application of ionic conductance blockers. Pacemaker potentials depended on Na+ conductance, since tetrodotoxin and Na-free medium were the most potent agents for blocking spontaneous rhythmic activity. However, a Ca2+ conductance was involved in the depolarizing phase of membrane potential oscillations, since Ba2+ application increased oscillation amplitude. Action potentials observed during the bursts were Na+- and Ca2+-dependent. They did not differ significantly from those observed in other spinal cord neurones in culture. Application of tetraethylammonium, CoCl2, BaCl2 and 4-aminopyridine revealed at least three different potassium conductances which controlled this bursting pacemaker activity. A delayed potassium conductance controlled spike duration, a Ca-dependent potassium conductance controlled the duration of the burst and underlay the hyperpolarizing phase terminating the burst, and finally, a transient potassium conductance appeared to be involved in the control of phase duration. The demonstration that spinal cord neurones growing in monolayer culture display typical bursting pacemaker activity raises the possibility that bursting pacemaker neurones in the mammalian spinal cord may be involved in a phasic pattern generator that could control such activities as walking and the respiratory rhythm.
Injection of acetylcholine into cholinergic neurons of the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus induced membrane depolarization, an increase in input resistance, a decrease of early and late afterhyperpolarizations and a prolongation of the action potential. These effects were reversible and within 10-20 min almost complete recovery was always observed. Externally applied acetylcholine, even with doses as high as 15 mM, was not effective. Acetylcholine appeared to block voltage- and Ca2+-dependent K+ conductances. This block was manifested by the reduction of both the early and late afterhyperpolarizations and a decrease of the delayed rectification. The reversal potential for the conductance decrease was 15-30 mV negative to the resting potential. As a result of this blockade an increased Ca2+ current ensues, which is responsible for most of the prolongation of the action potential. The same responses were obtained after the injection of carbamylcholine, neostigmine and choline. However, unlike acetylcholine no sign of recovery was observed. In fact injection of neostigmine, carbamylcholine or neostigmine, together with acetylcholine, produced a delayed response which may reflect the accumulation of endogenous acetylcholine.
The electrophysiological properties of guinea-pig dorsal vagal motoneurons were studied in an in vitro slice preparation. Antidromic, orthodromic and direct stimulation of the neurons demonstrated that the action potential is comprised of several distinct components: a fast initial spike followed by afterdepolarization and an early and a late afterhyperpolarizations. The fast initial spike and the early afterhyperpolarization were blocked by tetrodotoxin and tetraethylammonium ions, respectively. The afterdepolarization (present on the falling phase of the spike) and the late afterhyperpolarization were blocked by the addition of ions known to block calcium conductance (CdCl2, CoCl2 or MnCl2), indicating close association between these two potentials. Prolonged outward current injection through the recording electrode produced two different firing patterns, depending on the initial level of the membrane potential. From resting potential (usually -60 mV) the firing pattern was characterized by a short train of action potentials appearing shortly after the onset of the depolarization step. By contrast, when the depolarization was delivered from a hyperpolarized membrane potential level, a short train of repetitive firing appeared after an initial delay of 300-400 ms. The membrane current responsible for this initial reduction in excitability was studied by means of a single-electrode voltage-clamp technique. The magnitude, direction and kinetics of such current flow are consistent with the presence of early potassium current (IA), partly inactive at the resting potential. Synaptic activation of vagal motoneurons could be obtained by electrical stimulation of the tissue surrounding the vagal nucleus or by direct activation of the vagal nerve. Perivagal stimulation generated excitatory and inhibitory synaptic potentials which could be reversed by shifting the membrane potential. Vagal nerve stimulation, in addition to the antidromic activation of the cells, generated depolarizing responses which were unitary in nature and did not show much sensitivity to shifts in membrane potential. Perivagal and vagal nerve-evoked depolarizations could generate action potentials as well as partial dendritic spikes. We conclude that spike electroresponsiveness in vagal motoneurons is generated by voltage-dependent Na+ and Ca2+ conductances. In addition, the Ca2+-dependent current triggers a K+ conductance which is responsible for modulating the firing frequency obtained from the normal resting level.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Intracellular recordings of membrane potential and membrane currents were made from neurones in the submucous plexus of the guinea-pig caecum in vitro. Fast and slow excitatory postsynaptic potentials and slow inhibitory postsynaptic potentials were recorded from the majority of neurones following focal stimulation of presynaptic fibres in the plexus. The slow inhibitory postsynaptic potential was associated with an increase in membrane conductance and reversed its polarity at -90 mV; it was reversibly blocked by yohimbine. The slow excitatory postsynaptic potential and its underlying current was associated with a decrease in membrane conductance. Two kinds of voltage-dependence both of the slow excitatory postsynaptic potential and current were observed; in 80% of cells, the excitatory postsynaptic potential and current became smaller with membrane hyperpolarization and reversed polarity at -90 mV (reversing type) but in 20% of cells both the excitatory postsynaptic potential and current simply disappeared when the membrane potential reached -70 mV (non-reversing type). The effects of acetylcholine, adenosine 5'-triphosphate, bombesin, 5-hydroxytryptamine, neurotensin, noradrenaline, substance P and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide were examined. The only substance which mimicked the slow inhibitory postsynaptic potential was noradrenaline; brief applications of noradrenaline caused hyperpolarizations which had the same time-course, reversal potential and sensitivity to yohimbine as the slow inhibitory postsynaptic potential. The non-reversing type of slow excitatory postsynaptic potential was mimicked only by adenosine 5'-triphosphate. The reversing type of slow excitatory postsynaptic potential was mimicked by bombesin, neurotensin, substance P and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide. 5-Hydroxytryptamine and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (in some neurones) caused a depolarization with an increase in membrane conductance. All three synaptic potentials were reversibly depressed by superfusion of noradrenaline but noradrenaline did not affect the potential changes evoked by brief application of exogenous acetylcholine or substance P. It is concluded that, in guinea-pig submucous plexus neurones, the slow inhibitory postsynaptic potential is mediated by noradrenaline and results from a potassium conductance increase.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
An in vitro study of electrical activity of regenerating motor endings was performed 11-15 days after the crushing of one motor nerve supplying the triangularis sterni muscle in the adult mouse. For this purpose, presynaptic membrane currents elicited by electrical stimulation of the regenerating nerve were recorded by external electrodes. Ionic channel distribution along the length of the endings was deduced from wave form configuration in normal perfusing fluid together with changes produced by application of specific channel blocking agents. The sharp negative deflection which was shown to correspond to inward Na+ current by its sensitivity to tetrodotoxin application could be recorded along most of the length of the endings indicating a widespread distribution of Na channels. Frequent absence of the late wave form component which signals K+ current was taken to indicate an even K+ current density in the few last nodes, the heminode and the distal part of the endings. Therefore, it appears that regenerating motor endings are characterized by an overlap of Na and K conductances all along their length. In the course of regeneration, the heminode loses the sensitivity to K channel blocking agents and the remainder of the terminal becomes insensitive to tetrodotoxin, the former change occurring usually earlier than the latter.
The fast axonal transport of [3H]proline-labeled proteins and [3H]fucose-labeled glycoproteins delivered to the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus in the developing rat optic nerve was investigated during tetrodotoxin-induced monocular impulse blockade. Repeated intraocular injections of various dosages of tetrodotoxin or citrate buffer vehicle were made every two days in rats aged 5-21 days postnatal, and the accumulation of rapidly transported radioactivity in the lateral geniculate nucleus measured between three and twelve hours post-injection at each age. The effectiveness of prolonged tetrodotoxin treatment was monitored by loss of the pupillary light reflex and the level of cytochrome oxidase activity in the contralateral superior colliculus and dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus. Numbers of optic axons proximal to the chiasm and the frequency of retinal ganglion cells per unit distance from the optic disc were examined for signs of tetrodotoxin-induced degeneration of the retinofugal pathway. Tetrodotoxin-treatment reduced the amount of fucosyl glycoproteins, but not proline-labeled proteins, axonally transported to the lateral geniculate nucleus during the first three weeks of postnatal development. Other studies indicated that tetrodotoxin significantly reduced the incorporation of [3H]fucose into retinal proteins indicating that the reduction in transport was probably due to a decrease in precursor incorporation into retinal ganglion cells. Electron microscopy of ganglion cells at 21 days revealed dilated and vacuolated Golgi cisternae associated with tetrodotoxin treatment, suggesting that tetrodotoxin may alter fucose metabolism by secondarily disrupting Golgi organization. Other protein synthetic machinery in these cells, including ribosomes and rough endoplasmic reticulum, appeared normal throughout tetrodotoxin treatment. These data indicate that Na+-dependent optic impulse activity may be indirectly related to the axonal transport of glycoproteins during early postnatal development by mediating the incorporation of precursor into glycoproteins at the Golgi apparatus and their subsequent entrance into the fast transport system.
Horseradish peroxidase conjugates of either the lectin wheat germ agglutinin (WGA-HRP) or choleragenoid (B-HRP) have been shown to be sensitive neuroanatomical tracers. In the present study a comparison was made between these two conjugates as transganglionic tracers in trigeminal primary sensory neurons following injection into the rat mystacial vibrissae skin. Differences between the two tracers were observed in the labeling of cell bodies in the trigeminal ganglion. Injection of WGA-HRP resulted in labeling of predominantly small cell bodies, whereas B-HRP gave rise to labeling of somewhat larger cell bodies. By increasing the concentration of the injected WGA-HRP solution the number of labeled cells increased substantially, while a corresponding increase in the concentration of B-HRP resulted in a relatively small increase in the number of labeled cells. WGA-HRP injection resulted in labeling of primary afferents mainly in the substantia gelatinosa of the trigeminal subnucleus caudalis. When the concentration of the injected WGA-HRP solution was increased, labeling was also observed in the marginal and magnocellular zones. Following B-HRP injection, labeling was only observed in the magnocellular zone and innermost part of the substantia gelatinosa. This general pattern of labeling was the same when the concentration of the B-HRP solution was increased.
A computationally straightforward method is described for determining the latency, duration and magnitude of stimulus-evoked single-unit neural activity. A unique feature of the method is its ability to define the neural response without reference to stimulus parameters. First, the temporal component of the spike train that represents the response is located and then that component is analyzed to determine the magnitude of the response. Intensity-response functions can then be constructed, using the number of extra spikes above baseline activity as a measure of response magnitude. Threshold can be defined as any point on the intensity-response function.
The transport of horseradish peroxidase (HRP) from the nasal cavity to the olfactory bulb was examined in rat. HRP was present primarily in the olfactory nerve and glomerular layer. In some animals the glomeruli were densely filled with product while in others there was considerable interglomerular variation in density. Examination of the decalcified noses revealed a restricted distribution of HRP in those rats with partially labelled olfactory bulbs. The presence of small groups of densely labelled glomeruli was also noted using the 2-deoxyglucose method to examine odor-induced metabolic activity.
A micropipette for drug application using the electrolysis of water is described. The drug solution is applied from the tip of a micropipette by the pressure of the hydrogen and oxygen gas that are produced by electrolysis of water in the micropipette. The amount of the drug applied is proportioned to the applied current and time of electrolysis. This method is simple, reliable and effective for the application of any kind of drug.
A system is described that allows the X-Y movement of a microscope stage to be coupled to the movement of the pen of a X-Y plotter. Linear potentiometers are displaced by any X- or Y-axis movement of the microscope's stage and are connected to a DC amplifier which provides a varying DC voltage to the inputs of a X-Y plotter. The pen of the X-Y plotter becomes yoked to the movement of the stage and it is possible to draw or count the image that is being viewed at magnifications which are independent of those used for observation. The coupling DC amplifier provides a DC offset voltage at all gain settings of the pantograph which is sufficient to reposition the pen of the X-Y plotter in the center of the plotter's platen, regardless of the location of the specimen on the microscope slide. The electronic pantograph overcomes the limitations of a camera lucida, and is well suited for analyzing connectional neuroanatomical material with bright- and darkfield, polarized light or florescent illumination at a reasonable price and without the complexity and hardware requirements of a computerized system.
Signal processing in neural networks will inevitably include delays due to the finite conduction velocity of the neurones and their interconnections. Diamond proposed a method for finding these delays in the case of (visual) steady-state responses. Alignment of response features, when represented in a time domain plot, would, allegedly, yield the delay. We show that filter action, by introducing frequency-dependent phase shifts, is bound to distort the time domain plot considerably, thereby aligning the response features in such a way that a wrong value for the delay is found. This makes that analysis method of doubtful significance.
The 'neurometric' method, as developed by John, was used for the study of patients with one-sided supratentorial ischaemia. The results of a reference group of 64 normal volunteers were compared with those of a group of 94 patients. This patient group included 54 patients with permanent neurological deficit (completed stroke or partial non-progressive stroke) and 40 patients with transient neurological symptoms (reversible ischaemic neurological deficit or transient ischaemic attacks). In 90% of all patients the neurometric method indicated that the EEG had to be considered as abnormal (compared with 3% of false positives in the reference group). A significant overall asymmetry was found in 82% of all patients compared with 2% in the reference group. During the follow-up period of 3 months there was a significant improvement of the EEG (as indicated by 3 neurometric parameters) as well as an improvement in clinical condition. In 57.5% of the EEGs, both the neurometric score and the visual assessment of the EEG indicated that some abnormality was present. In 6.6% of the cases both methods failed to indicate any abnormality. In 34.0% the neurometrics method revealed an abnormality in the EEG which was not found by visual assessment. In only 1.9% of the patients did visual assessment suggest abnormalities which could not be confirmed by neurometrics. In the group of EEGs which were considered as normal by visual assessment, the neurometrics method revealed abnormalities in 84%. The neurometric method is at the moment the most sensitive approach for detecting abnormalities in the EEG of patients with unilateral cerebral ischaemia. However, the method seems not very accurate for lateralization or localization of the lesions.

The effect of topical glycerol application on normal and previously injured saphenous nerves was tested in 20 Sprague-Dawley rats. Anhydrous glycerol treatment of five normal nerves showed a rapid loss of C-fiber conduction within 5 minutes of application, while after 10 to 30 minutes, a complete conduction blockade in all fiber types was produced. The effect of anhydrous glycerol on both spontaneous firing from the neuroma and impulse propagation within the nerve was examined in 11 rats that had undergone saphenous neurotomy 7 days previously. In these animals, cessation of spontaneous action potential production from the neuroma was the earliest electrophysiological change noted, followed by loss first of C-fiber, then of A-fiber conduction. Graded concentrations of glycerol (25%, 50%, 75%, and 100%) were used in four rats with saphenous neuromas, which allowed selective blockade of spontaneous action potential generation and C-fiber conduction with minimal effect on A-fibers. The neurophysiological mechanism of glycerol neurolysis appears to be a nonspecific conduction blockade of large and small fibers, which is established within minutes of its application. Spontaneous firing within damaged axons, which may play a role in a variety of cranial and peripheral nerve sensorimotor syndromes, is also exquisitely sensitive to glycerol application.
All mammalian tissue investigated to date is capable of eicosanoid biosynthesis in response to various activating stimuli. While the importance of these metabolites as major mediators of many normal physiological processes and some pathophysiological conditions has not been proven, it is evident that these compounds are at least important modulators of many cellular and organ system functions. This review is intended to provide the reader with a brief overview of eicosanoid biology, with specific reference to the neurosciences. The increasing knowledge about the role of the eicosanoids in neurobiology may contribute to the understanding and treatment of many neurological diseases. The eicosanoids comprise several groups of biologically active unsaturated fatty acids: the &quot;primary&quot; prostaglandins, the cyclic endoperoxides, the prostanoids, the leukotrienes, and other acid lipids. This article includes a review of the enzymatic pathways of biosynthesis and metabolism of eicosanoids in man, and the pertinent structural nomenclature. The general basic and clinical pharmacological effects of the more important compounds on vascular perfusion, platelet function, intracellular enzyme activity, and interactions with other mediators of cellular activity are reviewed. A more detailed review of the actions of eicosanoids as mediators or modifiers of central nervous system physiology and pathophysiology is presented. Recent animal and human studies on the use and alterations of the eicosanoid metabolites is summarized, specifically where they relate to several clinical problem areas of interest to the neurosurgeon and neurobiologist. These areas include cerebrovascular circulation physiology, cerebral ischemia, cerebral vasospasm following subarachnoid hemorrhage, migraine headaches, hypothalamic function, neurotransmission, and nociception. A bibliography of 92 articles for further review is also included.

The cytoarchitecture in the retinoreceptive zone of the pigeon optic tectum has been studied in Nissl-stained sections taken in four planes. As suggested by a previous study, two cytoarchitectural fields are present. Reconstructed views of the tectum show that the fields are separated by a narrow transition zone approximating to the tectal representation of the retina's horizontal meridian. In field 1 (which is upper and rostral), sublayer IIb is wide, IIc wide and trilaminate, IId narrow and IIe continuous; in field 2, IIb and c are narrow, IId wide and IIe discontinuous. The distribution of retinal terminals was investigated by the anterograde axonal transport of [3H]proline or horseradish peroxidase from intravitreal injections. The depth distribution of grains or reaction product throughout the entire tectum was quantified by scanning with a microdensitometer. Both autoradiography and horseradish peroxidase transport show two patterns of lamination separated by a narrow transition zone and these two terminal fields correspond closely to the cytoarchitectural fields. In field 1 optic terminals are concentrated in sublayer IIb, superficial c, d, and to a lesser extent in f; in field 2 concentrations are present at the IIb/c boundary, across deep IIc and d, and a small concentration is found IIf. The patterns of retinal termination with depth in the tectum found by axonal transport are compatible with those found by electron microscopy, and are discussed in relation to the optic termination found by other techniques. Study of the time course of axonal transport shows that both radioactive material and horseradish peroxidase are fast transported to all the bands of optic terminals at about 150 mm/day. Horseradish peroxidase gradually accumulates in the retinoreceptive zone, filling clusters of terminals and horizontal processes. At 12 days, it has begun to disappear from the zone and a few diffusely filled profiles, that may be transcellularly labelled, are present. Electron microscope autoradiography of fast transported material shows clusters of grains over optic terminals and preterminals and a percentage density analysis confirms that these profiles are specifically labelled. The two tectal fields each contain the projection from specialized areas of the retina, suggesting functional specialization in the tectum for the processing of different kinds of visual information.
The distribution of binding sites for the neuropeptide neurotensin was studied in the hippocampal region of the rat, monkey and human brain by using the method of in vitro receptor autoradiography. Biochemical studies of [3H]neurotensin binding to homogenates or sections of the rat hippocampal region showed it to be saturable, reversible and of high specificity. Displacement studies showed that neurotensin-(1-13) and neurotensin-(8-13) were active, while neurotensin-(1-6) and (1-8) were inactive in blocking the specific binding of [3H]neurotensin to hippocampal sections. The autoradiographic studies showed a highly heterogeneous pattern of [3H]neurotensin binding in the hippocampal region: the highest density was present in the entorhinal area while little binding was found in the Ammon's horn. In the rat most of the [3H]neurotensin binding was found in layer II of the medial entorhinal area and in the parasubiculum, while the lateral entorhinal area contained fewer [3H]neurotensin-binding sites. The laminar distribution of binding remained the same throughout the longitudinal axis of the entorhinal area. The pattern of [3H]neurotensin binding in the monkey resembled that seen in the rat inasmuch as the medial was rich and the lateral entorhinal area was poor in [3H]neurotensin-binding sites. In the medial entorhinal area most binding was found in layers I-IV. Unlike in the rat, the hilus of the monkey contained moderate and the molecular layer of the area dentata few [3H]neurotensin-binding sites. In the human brain the outer three layers of both the medial and the lateral entorhinal area contained binding sites for [3H]neurotensin. Binding sites for [3H]neurotensin were found also in the parasubiculum and in the molecular layer of the area dentata of the human brain. The present autoradiographic studies show that the hippocampal region of the rat and primate brain is rich in binding sites for [3H]neurotensin, that a majority of these are situated in the entorhinal area and that despite some differences in the regional distribution of these binding sites within the hippocampal region, some principal similarities may exist between these species.
The organization of the claustrocortical system was investigated in rat by means of cortical injections of either lectin-conjugated horseradish peroxidase or retrograde fluorescent tracers. The latter were also employed in cat. Evans Blue, Fast Blue, True Blue, Nuclear Yellow and Diamidino Yellow were used in different combinations and were injected, uni- or bilaterally, in different cortical fields. Cells retrogradely labeled from each cortical injection were observed in the ipsi- and contralateral claustrum. Anterogradely labeled terminals were also seen in the claustra of both sides in the horseradish peroxidase experiments. The topographic and quantitative study of the distribution of labeled neurons showed a topographic organization of the rat's claustrocortical system, although a certain degree of overlap of the cell populations projecting to frontal and occipital fields was also evident. Four types of branched claustrocortical neurons were observed in the double labeling experiments: neurons branching ipsilaterally (A) or contralaterally (B) to anterior and posterior cortical fields; neurons branching bilaterally to homotopic (C) or heterotopic (D) cortical fields. Each population of branched neurons was equivalent to a different percent value of the total labeled cell populations; the percent value decreased from type A to type D. Type C branched neurons were also identified in the claustrofrontal system of the cat. The intricate organization of the claustral-ascending projections suggests that the nucleus is involved in different cortical activities and that its efferents may also provide the substrate of a powerful subcortical mechanism of interhemispheric communication.
A rhesus monkey and five human subjects used a hand-held joystick to track unpredictable continuously moving targets. Both monkey and human respond by making discrete (&quot;step-and-hold&quot;) corrections of positional error, at an average frequency of 1.33 and 2.26 movements/second, respectively. By delaying visual feedback of joystick position, we could reduce these frequencies in a predictable manner. These results imply that the primate visuomotor system probably does not operate as a &quot;sampled-data mechanism&quot; governed by an asynchronous clock, but that inevitable delays in visuomotor feedback control determine the frequency of corrective movements.
Neurointermediate lobes of the rat pituitary gland were incubated with [3H]dopamine in the presence of desipramine and then superfused with radioactivity-free medium. The outflow of tritium was studied and in most experiments [3H]dopamine and its metabolites were separated by column chromatography. After 60-70 min of superfusion, the spontaneous rate of tritium outflow was 1.2%/min. The spontaneously released radioactivity consisted of 52% O-methylated and deaminated metabolites, 28% 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid, 18% dopamine and 2% 3-methoxytyramine. In the presence of pargyline (10 microM) the spontaneous rate of total tritium outflow decreased by 46%, that of the O-methylated and deaminated metabolites by 72% and that of 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid by 79%. The spontaneous rate of outflow of dopamine was unchanged and that of 3-methoxytyramine increased 3-fold. Further addition of nomifensine (10 microM) doubled the rate of outflow of dopamine and 3-methoxytyramine, but had no effect on the other metabolites. Electrical stimulation of the pituitary stalk (0.2 ms, 80 V, 3 Hz, 2 min) caused a tritium release of 8.5% of the tissue tritium. The evoked tritium release was only partially dependent on the extracellular calcium and not affected by tetrodotoxin. In contrast, vasopressin release evoked by stimuli of the same strength was completely calcium-dependent and blocked by tetrodotoxin. After modification of the stimulation conditions (1 ms, 10 V, 10 Hz, 2 min) the evoked tritium release was 4.1% of the tissue tritium. This tritium release was reduced by 73% in the presence of tetrodotoxin. The total evoked tritium release was decreased by 30% in the presence of pargyline and increased by 150% after further addition of nomifensine. Under the latter conditions, tetrodotoxin reduced the evoked tritium release by 67%, but nearly all of the tetrodotoxin-resistant tritium release could be identified as dopamine metabolites. Thus, the electrical stimulation appears to liberate some [3H]dopamine metabolites from an extraneuronal compartment. In conclusion, oxidative deamination and O-methylation are important pathways of the catabolism of dopamine in the neurointermediate lobe of the pituitary gland. After labelling of the transmitter stores with [3H]dopamine, the total tritium release is a poor indicator of [3H]dopamine release from the nerve terminals. Only the isolated [3H]dopamine fraction appears to reflect the release of neuronal [3H]dopamine.
Spinal cord axons and terminals stained for serotonin-like immunoreactivity were examined in rats and guinea-pigs with experimental allergic encephalomyelitis, an animal disease model for multiple sclerosis. During the paraplegic stage of experimental allergic encephalomyelitis, many serotonin-positive axons in the ventral and lateral funiculi of both rats and guinea-pigs were found to be grossly distorted, often appearing to end in bulbous enlargements. Serotonin-immunoreactive terminal varicosities in the gray matter were swollen and diminished in number in paraplegic rats with experimental allergic encephalomyelitis. In addition, the intervaricose segments which were observed in control rats appeared to be missing in rats with experimental allergic encephalomyelitis. Depletion of serotonin-positive terminals was much more pronounced in paraplegic guinea-pigs with experimental allergic encephalomyelitis than in rats with experimental allergic encephalomyelitis, but those terminals which remained in the guinea-pigs were morphologically similar to those of control guinea-pigs. The greater depletion of serotonin-positive terminals in guinea-pigs may reflect a more severe disease state in this species, as none of the guinea-pigs survived the acute stage of paralysis. As the time period between recovery from paralysis and sacrifice increased in rats with experimental allergic encephalomyelitis, serotonin-positive terminals in the gray matter became increasingly more normal in appearance. Even by the first day of recovery, some intervaricose segments could again be observed, and after two weeks of recovery, the terminals were much more numerous and less swollen than during the paraplegic stage of disease.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A small but distinctive population (about 1 in 600) of magnocellular neurosecretory neurons in homozygous Brattleboro rats are immunoreactive for vasopressin, and a similar number for the carboxy-terminal glycopeptide of the vasopressin prohormone. These solitary cells are found in all animals and in all parts of the magnocellular system, but not in the suprachiasmatic or other hypothalamic nuclei. The majority of the solitary cells do not differ morphologically from the remainder of the magnocellular neurons. The immunoreactivity is markedly denser in the Nissl bodies than in the Golgi region. Serial sections show that the vasopressin and glycopeptide immunoreactive material is co-localized in the same cells, and that these cells are not immunoreactive for oxytocin. A published sequence for the Brattleboro vasopression gene mutation indicates a base-deletion upstream from the glycopeptide-encoding portion, and implies a frameshift that would cause translation of incorrect protein continuing into the poly-A tail of the mRNA. Although this could apply to the majority of the Brattleboro presumptive vasopressin neurons, the co-localization in our solitary cells of material immunoreactive with antibodies to both the amino- and carboxy-terminals of the vasopressin prohormone suggest that in these cases an additional mechanism may be operating.
We investigated ascending fiber projections of calcitonin gene-related peptide from the parabrachial area to the forebrain and diencephalon in the rat using immunocytochemistry. Destruction of the lateral portion of the dorsal parabrachial area resulted in a marked ipsilateral decrease in the fibers containing calcitonin gene-related peptide in the ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus, indicating that cells containing calcitonin gene-related peptide in the lateral portion of the dorsal parabrachial area projected to the ipsilateral ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus. Destruction of the ventral portion of the parabrachial area resulted in a marked decrease of fibers containing calcitonin gene-related peptide in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, the central amygdaloid nucleus and the lateral hypothalamus just medial to the crus cerebri (the far-lateral hypothalamus), and a less marked decrease in the ventromedial thalamic nucleus. This means that there are projections from cells containing calcitonin gene-related peptide in the ventral portion of the parabrachial area to the first three regions just mentioned, and to some extent to the last.
Bovine chromaffin granules contain two major families of acidic proteins, chromogranins A and B. The occurrence of these proteins in endocrine and nervous tissue was investigated by immunoblotting (one- and two-dimensional), and by immunohistochemistry. Immunoblotting revealed that in anterior hypophysis and in splenic nerve from ox, immunologically crossreacting proteins are present which in two-dimensional electrophoresis migrate to the same position as adrenal chromogranins A and B. Smaller proteins derived from chromogranin B by endogenous proteolysis were much less prominent in these tissues when compared with adrenal medulla. Immunohistochemistry performed in rat and bovine tissues established that chromogranin B is present in all cells of the adrenal medulla. It is also found in the anterior hypophysis, the endocrine pancreas, in enterochromaffin and in sympathetic ganglion cells, but e.g. is absent from posterior hypophysis and exocrine tissues. It is concluded that chromogranins A and B have a widespread distribution in endocrine and nervous tissue. Proteolytic processing of chromogranin B in the storage organelles of hypophysis and splenic nerves is apparently slower than that in chromaffin granules. The widespread distribution of the chromogranins resembling that of neuropeptides is a clear indication for some special, yet to be discovered, function.
After experimentally inducing long term changes in transmitter release, a series of frog neuromuscular junctions were studied with intracellular recording and then semi-serially sectioned and examined in the electron microscope. Transmitter release per unit length of motor nerve terminal was well correlated with several measures of the length of individual presynaptic active zones and with the number of mitochondria per terminal. Total release from each terminal correlated with estimates of the total amount of active zone. This study of neuromuscular junctions in sartorius muscles of the frog Rana pipiens was undertaken to search for ultrastructural correlates of the increase in transmitter release efficacy that follows denervation of the contralateral sartorius. This treatment typically results in greatly enhanced release at some synapses while others appear unaffected. In the present study, nine identified junctions with known physiological properties were sectioned every 6 micron throughout much of their length to yield 40-105 cross-sectional profiles per junction. Overall, these 9 synapses showed a 33-fold range in quantal transmitter release and an 18-fold range in release per unit nerve terminal. Release correlated with estimates of active zone size. No correlations were found between release and the density of synaptic vesicles adjacent to active zones. Our results suggest that active zones in motor nerve terminals are plastic structures, and that changes in active zone size may be the structural basis of long term changes in transmitter release and synaptic efficacy.
The effects of tizanidine (DS103-282) were compared with those of noradrenaline and other adrenoceptor agonists on responses of laminae IV and V neurones in the lumbar dorsal horn to noxious and innocuous cutaneous stimuli in the anaesthetized cat. Tizanidine, noradrenaline and the alpha 2-receptor agonist, clonidine, depressed spontaneous activity and responses to noxious, but not those to innocuous, stimuli when administered iontophoretically, either near the recording site in laminae IV-V, or into laminae II-III, i.e. 300-900 microns dorsal to the recording site. Iontophoretic ejection of dopamine, the beta-agonist isoprenaline and the alpha 1-agonists phenylephrine and amidephrine had no effect at either site, or only relatively weak and sometimes non-selective depressant actions on neuronal responses to cutaneous stimuli. The preferential depressant actions of tizanidine, noradrenaline and clonidine were antagonized by the selective alpha 2-antagonist RX781094 administered iontophoretically at the same site as the agonists, and by intravenously administered yohimbine. In contrast, the alpha 1-antagonists, prazosin and WB4101, the beta-antagonist, sotalol and opiate antagonist, naloxone did not alter the depressant actions of these agonists on laminae IV and V neurones. These findings indicate that the selective inhibitory effect of tizanidine and noradrenaline on responses of laminae IV and V neurones to noxious peripheral stimuli are mediated at alpha 2-adrenoceptors situated in either laminae IV and V or laminae II-III. The possible physiological relevance of these receptors is discussed.
Puberty in the female rat is accompanied by a marked attenuation of the opioid inhibition of luteinizing hormone secretion. One factor which may contribute to this altered role is a change in the metabolism of opioid peptides during sexual maturation. beta-Endorphin undergoes a considerable degree of metabolism through both C-terminal proteolysis and N-acetylation, and these metabolites do not possess opioid activity. The processing of beta-endorphin in the hypothalamus and in the anterior and neurointermediate lobes of the pituitary gland in prepubertal and adult female rats was studied using gel filtration and high performance liquid chromatography coupled with radioimmunoassay. In the anterior lobe, high molecular weight precursors of beta-endorphin (pro-opiomelanocortin and beta-lipotropin) were present in prepubertal (28 days old) rats, but little authentic beta-endorphin was detected. In contrast, only beta-lipotropin and beta-endorphin were present in mature (70 days old) animals. Only beta-endorphin-sized peptides were present in the neurointermediate lobes of both prepubertal and adult rats. However, the proportion of N-acetylated metabolites was higher in sexually mature animals. In the hypothalamus, only beta-endorphin-sized peptides were present in both juvenile and adult animals. However, C-terminal proteolysis increased with age (no acetylated metabolites were detectable in this tissue). The proportion of the total beta-endorphin-like immunoreactivity attributable to beta-endorphin was lower in young adult (first dioestrus after vaginal opening) (55%) and mature (dioestrus, 61-64 days old) rats (56%) compared to prepubertal (30 days old) animals (75%) and the proportions of non-acetylated metabolites [beta-endorphin-(1-27) in young adults and beta-endorphin-(1-26) in adults] were increased concomitantly. These changes were correlated with a reduced luteinizing hormone response to the opiate antagonist naloxone in adult compared to prepubertal rats. beta-Endorphin is processed differently in the two lobes of the pituitary gland and in the hypothalamus and the degree of metabolism increases as the rat reaches sexual maturity. The increased metabolism of beta-endorphin in the hypothalamus, the site most likely to be involved in the control of luteinizing hormone secretion, results in a reduction in the relative proportion of the opioid active parent peptide. Thus, increased inactivation of beta-endorphin may contribute to the attenuation of the opioid inhibition of luteinizing hormone secretion observed during puberty.
The widespread distribution of neurons containing alpha-atrial natriuretic polypeptide-like immunoreactivity in the rat brain was demonstrated using radioimmunoassay and immunohistochemistry in conjunction with specific antisera. The highest concentrations of alpha-atrial natriuretic polypeptide-like immunoreactivity were in the hypothalamus and septum, with low but still appreciable concentrations in the mesencephalon, cerebral cortex, olfactory bulb and thalamus by radioimmunoassay. Immunohistochemical studies clearly showed that the perikarya of immunoreactive neurons are most prevalent in the ventral part of the lateral septal nucleus, periventricular preoptic nucleus, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, periventricular and dorsal parts of the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus, ventromedial nucleus, dorsomedial nucleus, arcuate nucleus, median mamillary nucleus, supramamillary nucleus, zona incerta, medial habenular nucleus and the periaqueductal grey matter. Scattered neurons were seen in the cingulate cortex, endopiriform nucleus, lateral hypothalamic area, and pretectal and dorsal thalamic areas. In addition to the areas mentioned above, high concentrations of immunoreactive varicose fibers were seen in the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb, external layer of the median eminence, central to paramedian parts of the interpeduncular nucleus and the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus. The globus pallidus, medial and central amygdaloid nuclei, dorsal raphe, dorsal parabrachial nucleus, locus coeruleus, vagal dorsal motor nucleus, solitary nucleus and some circumventricular organs, including the subfornical organ and organum vasculosum laminae terminalis, contained considerable numbers of immunoreactive varicose fibers. In dehydrated rats and homozygous Brattleboro rats, the pattern of alpha-atrial natriuretic polypeptide-immunoreactive neurons and varicose fibers was qualitatively similar to that seen in normal conditioned rats. This study gives an atlas of the distribution of the alpha-atrial natriuretic polypeptide-containing neuronal system in the rat brain and provides the groundwork for studying the influence of this new peptide on various brain functions.
Immunocytochemical studies, using a polyclonal antibody directed against tyrosine hydroxylase, identified catecholaminergic axons in prefrontal cortex of young and aged nonhuman primates. Aged monkeys, who showed cortical senile plaques in silver stains, had swollen tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive axons in neocortex. Some of these abnormal processes were associated with deposits of amyloid (visualized by thioflavin-T fluorescence) and were similar in appearance to neurites demonstrated by silver impregnation methods. This study provides evidence for structural abnormalities in catecholaminergic axons/nerve terminals in the neocortices of aged primates.
