The association between cognitive performance and general functioning in depression is controversial. The present study evaluated the association between cognitive dysfunction and major depressive disorder (MDD, N=70) as compared with age- and gender-matched healthy controls (n=206) and its relationship to general functioning (physical and mental health quality of life, activities of daily living, and employment status) in participants with current MDD (n=26) and those with previous MDD only (n=44). Participants were assessed clinically using the Mini International Neuropsychiatric Interview (M.I.N.I.) for the depression groups and the Diagnostic Interview for Psychoses (DIP-DM) for the control group. Measures to evaluate cognition and quality of lifes comprised the Repeatable Battery for the Assessment of Neuropsychological Status (RBANS), the Short Form-36 Health Survey Questionnaire, and the Activities/Instrumental Activities of Daily Living (ADL/IADL); employment status was also assessed in MDD. The results showed that a) while individuals with current depression had worse cognitive performance in all domains than healthy controls, those individuals with previous depression had lasting cognitive impairments in the domains of immediate memory and attention as compared with healthy controls; b) individuals with current depression had lower scores in the visuospatial/constructional and attention domains and the total score than individuals with previous depression; c) individuals in the depression group as a whole who were currently unemployed had significantly lower scores in all domains (except attention) of cognitive function; d) cognitive function was not related to either physical or mental quality of life or impairments of activities of daily living (ADL, IADL); e) that unemployment in previous depression was related to poor cognitive function similar to those with current depression. The results indicate that MDD may have detrimental and lasting effects on cognitive performance partly related to poorer general functioning.
In light of our previous observation of higher levels of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) amyloid beta-42 (Abeta42) and CSF/serum albumin ratio in major depressive disorder (MDD), we analyzed two additional CSF biomarkers reflecting neurodegeneration-neurofilament protein light (NFL) and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAp)-in relationship to prevalent geriatric depression. Neuropsychiatric, physical, and lumbar puncture examinations, with DSM-III-R-based depression diagnoses and measurement of CSF levels of NFL and GFAp, were evaluated among a population-based sample of 78 elderly women (mean age, 73.9+/-3.2 years) without dementia for at least 10 years after CSF collection. Eleven (13.1%) women had MDD, and higher levels of NFL compared with women without depression. A multivariate model including age, NFL, Abeta42 and the CSF/serum albumin ratio showed that each biomarker was independently and positively associated with MDD, and that this biomarker profile explained more variation in the model compared with single or combined biomarkers. A CSF profile with higher levels of NFL, Abeta42, and CSF/serum albumin ratio may indicate neuropathological and vascular events in depression etiology. This contrasts with the well-characterized pattern of low Abeta42, higher CSF/serum albumin ratio, and higher NFL in Alzheimer's disease.
Prevalence and risk factors associated with mixed anxiety-depressive disorder (MAD) have yet to be established. Using MINI 5.0.1 and HADS, a two-week survey involving 21,644 primary care patients was carried out. We found 1.8% of subjects with MAD and 20% of subjects with a co-morbid anxiety and depression (CAD) disorder. MAD patients without a past history of anxiety/affective episodes were defined as &quot;pure MAD&quot; (pMAD: 0.9% of the sample). While MAD patients showed a number of differences vs. the other groups of patients in the socio-demographic statistics, pMAD patients were not different, apart from a higher proportion of males vs. CAD patients. Nearly in all the comparisons, MAD and pMAD patients showed lower association with life events and with a familial predisposition than the other patients. On HADS assessment, MAD showed a higher risk of anxiety and depressive symptoms than anxiety diagnoses, a lower risk of depressive symptoms than depressive diagnoses and a lower risk of both anxiety and depressive symptoms than CAD. Since more than a half of MAD patients were classified as pMAD, the hypothesis that MAD should be viewed as a partial remission of a major depression is not entirely confirmed in our study.

The hypothesis that changes in gravity acceleration (a(g)) affect the linear relationships between oxygen consumption VO2 and mechanical power (w ) so that at any w, VO2 increases linearly with a(g) was tested under conditions where the weight of constant-mass legs was let to vary by inducing changes in a(g) in a human centrifuge. The effects of a(g) on the VO2/w relationship were studied on 14 subjects at two pedalling frequencies (f(p), 1.0 and 1.5 Hz), during four work loads on a cycle ergometer (25, 50, 75 and 100 W) and at four a(g) levels (1.0, 1.5, 2.0 and 2.5 times normal gravity). VO2 increased linearly with w. The slope did not differ significantly at various a(g) and f(p), suggesting invariant mechanical efficiency during cycling, independent of f(p) and a(g). Conversely, the y-intercept of the VO2/w relationship, defined as constant b, increased linearly with a(g). Constant b is the sum of resting VO2 plus internal metabolic power (E (i)). Since the former was the same at all investigated a(g), the increase in constant b was entirely due to an increase in E (i). Since the VO2 versus w lines had similar slopes, the changes in E (i) entirely explained the higher VO2 at each w, as a(g) was increased. In conclusion, the effects of a(g) on VO2 are mediated through changes in E (i), and not in w or in resting VO2.
Oxidative stress plays an important role in cerebellar damage caused by diabetes, leading to deterioration in glucose homeostasis causing metabolic disorders. The present study was carried out to find the effects of Aegle marmelose leaf extract and insulin alone and in combination with pyridoxine on the cerebellar 5-HT through 5-HT(2A) receptor subtype, gene expression studies on the status of antioxidants-superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione peroxidase (GPx), 5-HT(2A) and 5-HT transporter (5-HTT) and immunohistochemical studies in streptozotocin induced diabetic rats. 5-HT and 5-HT(2A) receptor binding parameters, B(max) and K(d), showed a significant decrease (p&lt;0.001) in the cerebellum of diabetic rats compared to control. Gene expression studies of SOD, GPx, 5-HT(2A) and 5-HTT in cerebellum showed a significant down regulation (p&lt;0.001) in diabetic rats compared to control. Pyridoxine treated alone and in combination with insulin, A. marmelose to diabetic rats reversed the B(max), K(d) of 5-HT, 5-HT(2A) and the gene expression of SOD, GPx, 5-HT(2A) and 5-HTT in cerebellum to near control. The gene expression of 5-HT(2A) and 5-HTT were confirmed by immunohistochemical studies. Also, the Rotarod test confirms the motor dysfunction and recovery by treatment. These data suggest the antioxidant and neuroprotective role of pyridoxine and A. marmelose through the up regulation of 5-HT through 5-HT(2A) receptor in diabetic rats. Our results suggest that pyridoxine treated alone and in combination with insulin and A. marmelose has a role in the regulation of insulin synthesis and release, normalizing diabetic related oxidative stress and neurodegeneration affecting the motor ability of an individual by serotonergic receptors through 5-HT(2A) function. This has clinical significance in the management of diabetes.

Circulating factors are typically invoked to explain bidirectional communication between the CNS and white adipose tissue (WAT). Thus, initiation of lipolysis has been relegated primarily to adrenal medullary secreted catecholamines and the inhibition of lipolysis primarily to pancreatic insulin, whereas signals of body fat levels to the brain have been ascribed to adipokines such as leptin. By contrast, evidence is given for bidirectional communication between brain and WAT occurring via the sympathetic nervous system (SNS) and sensory innervation of this tissue. Using retrograde transneuronal viral tract tracers, the SNS outflow from brain to WAT has been defined. Functionally, sympathetic denervation of WAT blocks lipolysis to a variety of lipolytic stimuli. Using anterograde transneuronal viral tract tracers, the sensory input from WAT to brain has been defined. Functionally, these WAT sensory nerves respond electrophysiologically to increases in WAT SNS drive suggesting a possible neural negative feedback loop to regulate lipolysis.

In sensory cortex regions, neurons are tuned to specific stimulus features. For example, in the visual cortex, many neurons fire predominantly in response to moving objects of a preferred orientation. However, the characteristics of the synaptic input that cortical neurons receive to generate their output firing pattern remain unclear. Here we report a novel approach for the visualization and functional mapping of sensory inputs to the dendrites of cortical neurons in vivo. By combining high-speed two-photon imaging with electrophysiological recordings, we identify local subthreshold calcium signals that correspond to orientation-specific synaptic inputs. We find that even inputs that share the same orientation preference are widely distributed throughout the dendritic tree. At the same time, inputs of different orientation preference are interspersed, so that adjacent dendritic segments are tuned to distinct orientations. Thus, orientation-tuned neurons can compute their characteristic firing pattern by integrating spatially distributed synaptic inputs coding for multiple stimulus orientations.

Testosterone and estrogen are essential for male behaviors in vertebrates. How these two signaling pathways interact to control masculinization of the brain and behavior remains to be established. Circulating testosterone activates the androgen receptor (AR) and also serves as the source of estrogen in the brain. We have used a genetic strategy to delete AR specifically in the mouse nervous system. This approach permits us to determine the function of AR in sexually dimorphic behaviors in males while maintaining circulating testosterone levels within the normal range. We find that AR mutant males exhibit masculine sexual and territorial displays, but they have striking deficits in specific components of these behaviors. Taken together with the surprisingly limited expression of AR in the developing brain, our findings indicate that testosterone acts as a precursor to estrogen to masculinize the brain and behavior, and signals via AR to control the levels of male behavioral displays.
Homeostatic control of neural function can be mediated by the regulation of ion channel expression, neurotransmitter receptor abundance, or modulation of presynaptic release. These processes can be implemented through cell autonomous or intercellular signaling. It remains unknown whether different forms of homeostatic regulation can be coordinated to achieve constant neural function. One way to approach this question is to confront a simple neural system with conflicting perturbations and determine whether the outcome reflects a coordinated, homeostatic response. Here, we demonstrate that two A-type potassium channel genes, shal and shaker, are reciprocally, transcriptionally coupled to maintain A-type channel expression. We then demonstrate that this homeostatic control of A-type channel expression prevents target-dependent, homeostatic modulation of synaptic transmission. Thus, we uncover a homeostatic mechanism that reciprocally regulates A-type potassium channels, and we define a hierarchical relationship between cell-intrinsic control of ion channel expression and target-derived homeostatic control of synaptic transmission.
Fragile X syndrome (FXS), the most common genetic form of mental retardation and autism, is caused by loss-of-function mutations in an RNA-binding protein, Fragile X Mental Retardation Protein (FMRP). Neurons from patients and the mouse Fmr1 knockout (KO) model are characterized by an excess of dendritic spines, suggesting a deficit in excitatory synapse elimination. In response to neuronal activity, myocyte enhancer factor 2 (MEF2) transcription factors induce robust synapse elimination. Here, we demonstrate that MEF2 activation fails to eliminate functional or structural excitatory synapses in hippocampal neurons from Fmr1 KO mice. Similarly, inhibition of endogenous MEF2 increases synapse number in wild-type but not Fmr1 KO neurons. MEF2-dependent synapse elimination is rescued in Fmr1 KO neurons by acute postsynaptic expression of wild-type but not RNA-binding mutants of FMRP. Our results reveal that active MEF2 and FMRP function together in an acute, cell-autonomous mechanism to eliminate excitatory synapses.
Macromolecules drive the complex behavior of neurons. For example, channels and transporters control the movements of ions across membranes, SNAREs direct the fusion of vesicles at the synapse, and motors move cargo throughout the cell. Understanding the structure, assembly, and conformational movements of these and other neuronal proteins is essential to understanding the brain. Developments in fluorescence have allowed the architecture and dynamics of proteins to be studied in real time and in a cellular context with great accuracy. In this review, we cover classic and recent methods for studying protein structure, assembly, and dynamics with fluorescence. These methods include fluorescence and luminescence resonance energy transfer, single-molecule bleaching analysis, intensity measurements, colocalization microscopy, electron transfer, and bimolecular complementation analysis. We present the principles of these methods, highlight recent work that uses the methods, and discuss a framework for interpreting results as they apply to molecular neurobiology.
Newly developed genetic models indicate that estrogen receptors (ERs) alone mediate prenatal masculinization of the mouse brain to organize reproductive and territorial behaviors, while postnatal activation of androgen receptors (ARs) potentiates specific components of those behaviors. These results and others offer a model of how AR and ER pathways interact to fully masculinize the brain and behavior of male mice.
In the mammalian hippocampus, the dentate gyrus (DG) is characterized by sparse and powerful unidirectional projections to CA3 pyramidal cells, the so-called mossy fibers. Mossy fiber synapses appear to duplicate, in terms of the information they convey, what CA3 cells already receive from entorhinal cortex layer II cells, which project both to the dentate gyrus and to CA3. Computational models of episodic memory have hypothesized that the function of the mossy fibers is to enforce a new, well-separated pattern of activity onto CA3 cells, to represent a new memory, prevailing over the interference produced by the traces of older memories already stored on CA3 recurrent collateral connections. Can this hypothesis apply also to spatial representations, as described by recent neurophysiological recordings in rats? To address this issue quantitatively, we estimate the amount of information DG can impart on a new CA3 pattern of spatial activity, using both mathematical analysis and computer simulations of a simplified model. We confirm that, also in the spatial case, the observed sparse connectivity and level of activity are most appropriate for driving memory storage-and not to initiate retrieval. Surprisingly, the model also indicates that even when DG codes just for space, much of the information it passes on to CA3 acquires a non-spatial and episodic character, akin to that of a random number generator. It is suggested that further hippocampal processing is required to make full spatial use of DG inputs.
Cerebellar Purkinje cells display complex intrinsic dynamics. They fire spontaneously, exhibit bistability, and via mutual network interactions are involved in the generation of high frequency oscillations and travelling waves of activity. To probe the dynamical properties of Purkinje cells we measured their phase response curves (PRCs). PRCs quantify the change in spike phase caused by a stimulus as a function of its temporal position within the interspike interval, and are widely used to predict neuronal responses to more complex stimulus patterns. Significant variability in the interspike interval during spontaneous firing can lead to PRCs with a low signal-to-noise ratio, requiring averaging over thousands of trials. We show using electrophysiological experiments and simulations that the PRC calculated in the traditional way by sampling the interspike interval with brief current pulses is biased. We introduce a corrected approach for calculating PRCs which eliminates this bias. Using our new approach, we show that Purkinje cell PRCs change qualitatively depending on the firing frequency of the cell. At high firing rates, Purkinje cells exhibit single-peaked, or monophasic PRCs. Surprisingly, at low firing rates, Purkinje cell PRCs are largely independent of phase, resembling PRCs of ideal non-leaky integrate-and-fire neurons. These results indicate that Purkinje cells can act as perfect integrators at low firing rates, and that the integration mode of Purkinje cells depends on their firing rate.
The human brain efficiently solves certain operations such as object recognition and categorization through a massively parallel network of dedicated processors. However, human cognition also relies on the ability to perform an arbitrarily large set of tasks by flexibly recombining different processors into a novel chain. This flexibility comes at the cost of a severe slowing down and a seriality of operations (100-500 ms per step). A limit on parallel processing is demonstrated in experimental setups such as the psychological refractory period (PRP) and the attentional blink (AB) in which the processing of an element either significantly delays (PRP) or impedes conscious access (AB) of a second, rapidly presented element. Here we present a spiking-neuron implementation of a cognitive architecture where a large number of local parallel processors assemble together to produce goal-driven behavior. The precise mapping of incoming sensory stimuli onto motor representations relies on a &quot;router&quot; network capable of flexibly interconnecting processors and rapidly changing its configuration from one task to another. Simulations show that, when presented with dual-task stimuli, the network exhibits parallel processing at peripheral sensory levels, a memory buffer capable of keeping the result of sensory processing on hold, and a slow serial performance at the router stage, resulting in a performance bottleneck. The network captures the detailed dynamics of human behavior during dual-task-performance, including both mean RTs and RT distributions, and establishes concrete predictions on neuronal dynamics during dual-task experiments in humans and non-human primates.
Enzymes from the PDE (phosphodiesterase) 4 cAMP-specific PDE family are crucial for the maintenance of compartmentalized cAMP responses in many cell types. Regulation of PDE activity can be achieved via post-translational modification such as phosphorylation by ERK (extracellular-signal-regulated kinase) MAPKs (mitogen-activated protein kinases) and PKA (protein kinase A). In the present paper, we report for the first time that PDE4 isoforms from the PDE4A and PDE4D subfamilies can be selectively modified by SUMO (small ubiquitin-related modifier). We have identified a single SUMO site within a consensus tetrapeptide motif, PsiKXE (where Psi represents a hydrophobic residue), which lies in the catalytic unit of these enzymes. SUMO modification of PDE4 at this site was observed upon overexpression of the SUMO E3 ligase PIASy [protein inhibitor of activated STAT (signal transducer and activator of transcription) Y] in HEK (human embryonic kidney)-293 cells and we identify PIASy as a novel binding partner for long PDE4 isoforms. Site-directed mutagenesis of the acceptor lysine residue ablated conjugation of PDE4 with SUMO, suggesting the presence of a single SUMO site in the first subdomain of the conserved PDE4 catalytic unit. This observation was supported by both cell-free in vitro SUMOylation assays and analysis of SUMOylated spot-immobilized peptide arrays. SUMO modification of long PDE4 isoforms serves to augment their activation by PKA phosphorylation and repress their inhibition by ERK phosphorylation. Following ligation of beta-adrenergic receptors, SUMOylation of PDE4 isoforms sufficiently amplified PKA-stimulated PDE4 activity to reduce markedly the PKA phosphorylation status of the beta2-adrenergic receptor. These results highlight a new means whereby cells might achieve the selective regulation of the activity of cAMP-specific PDE4 enyzmes.

Chronic tinnitus is a highly prevalent and often incapacitating condition frequently associated with sensorineural hearing loss. While its etiology remains incompletely understood there is a growing awareness of genetic factors that predispose to, or aggravate chronic tinnitus. Candidate genes for the disorder include KCNE1, a potassium channel subunit gene that has been implicated in maturation defects of central vestibular neurons, in Menire's disease, and in noise-induced hearing loss. 201 Caucasian outpatients with a diagnosis of chronic tinnitus were systematically screened for mutations in the KCNE1 open reading frame and in the adjacent sequence by direct sequencing. Allele frequencies were determined for 46 known variants, plus two novel KCNE1 mutations. These comprised one missense substitution (V47I) in the highly conserved region encoding the KCNE1 transmembrane domain, and one rare variant in the gene's 3'UTR. When genotypes were grouped assuming dominance of the minor alleles, no significant genotype or compound genotype effects were observed on tinnitus severity. The newly identified V47I substitution argues in favor of an enlarged spectrum of mutations in hearing disorders. However, with regard to allele frequencies in healthy control populations from earlier studies, more common KCNE1 variants are unlikely to play a major role in chronic tinnitus. Further investigations are invited to address variation in additional channel subunits as possible risk factors in tinnitus.
A complex dynamic ultradian rhythm underlies the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) circadian rhythm. We have investigated in normal human male subjects the importance, site of action, and receptor-mediated processes involved in rapid basal corticosteroid feedback and its interaction with corticotrophin releasing hormone (CRH) drive. Pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC), ACTH, and cortisol were measured every 10 min from healthy males during the awakening period or late afternoon using an automated blood sampling system. Mathematical modeling into discrete pulses of activity revealed that intravenous infusion of the synthetic mixed glucocorticoid/mineralocorticoid agonist prednisolone produced rapid inhibition of ACTH and cortisol pulsatility within 30 min in the morning and afternoon. Any pulse that had commenced at the time of injection was unaffected, and subsequent pulsatility was inhibited. Prednisolone also inhibited ACTH and cortisol secretion in response to exogenous CRH stimulation, inferring rapid feedback inhibition at the anterior pituitary. Circulating POMC peptide concentrations were unaffected, suggesting that the rapid corticosteroid inhibitory effect specifically targeted ACTH secretion from pituitary corticotrophs. Prednisolone fast feedback was only reduced by glucocorticoid receptor antagonist pretreatment and not by mineralocorticoid receptor antagonism, suggesting a glucocorticoid receptor-mediated pathway. The intravenous prednisolone suppression test provides a powerful new tool to investigate HPA abnormalities underlying metabolic and psychiatric disease states.
Where we look is determined both by our current intentions and by the tendency of visually salient items to &quot;catch our eye.&quot; After damage to parietal cortex, the normal process of directing attention is often profoundly impaired. Here, we tracked parietal patients' eye movements during visual search to separately map impairments in goal-directed orienting to targets versus stimulus-driven gaze shifts to salient but task-irrelevant probes. Deficits in these two distinct types of attentional selection are shown to be identical in both magnitude and spatial distribution, consistent with damage to a &quot;priority map&quot; that integrates goal- and stimulus-related signals to select visual targets. When goal-relevant and visually salient items compete for attention, the outcome depends on a biased competition in which the priority of contralesional targets is undervalued. On the basis of these findings, we further demonstrate that parietal patients' spatial bias (neglect) in goal-directed visual exploration can be corrected and even reversed by systematically manipulating the spatial distribution of stimulus salience in the visual array.
We recently described a severe, potentially lethal, but treatment-responsive encephalitis that associates with autoantibodies to the NMDA receptor (NMDAR) and results in behavioral symptoms similar to those obtained with models of genetic or pharmacologic attenuation of NMDAR function. Here, we demonstrate that patients' NMDAR antibodies cause a selective and reversible decrease in NMDAR surface density and synaptic localization that correlates with patients' antibody titers. The mechanism of this decrease is selective antibody-mediated capping and internalization of surface NMDARs, as Fab fragments prepared from patients' antibodies did not decrease surface receptor density, but subsequent cross-linking with anti-Fab antibodies recapitulated the decrease caused by intact patient NMDAR antibodies. Moreover, whole-cell patch-clamp recordings of miniature EPSCs in cultured rat hippocampal neurons showed that patients' antibodies specifically decreased synaptic NMDAR-mediated currents, without affecting AMPA receptor-mediated currents. In contrast to these profound effects on NMDARs, patients' antibodies did not alter the localization or expression of other glutamate receptors or synaptic proteins, number of synapses, dendritic spines, dendritic complexity, or cell survival. In addition, NMDAR density was dramatically reduced in the hippocampus of female Lewis rats infused with patients' antibodies, similar to the decrease observed in the hippocampus of autopsied patients. These studies establish the cellular mechanisms through which antibodies of patients with anti-NMDAR encephalitis cause a specific, titer-dependent, and reversible loss of NMDARs. The loss of this subtype of glutamate receptors eliminates NMDAR-mediated synaptic function, resulting in the learning, memory, and other behavioral deficits observed in patients with anti-NMDAR encephalitis.
Activity-dependent changes in synaptic structure and spine morphology are required for learning and memory, and depend on protein translation. We show that the kinase for eukaryotic elongation factor 2 (eEF2K) regulates dendritic spine stability and synaptic structure by modulating activity-dependent dendritic BDNF synthesis. Specifically RNAi knockdown of eEF2K reduces dendritic spine stability and inhibits dendritic BDNF protein expression; whereas overexpression of a constitutively activated eEF2K induces spine maturation and increases expression of dendritic BDNF. Furthermore, BDNF overexpression rescues the spine stability reduced by RNAi knockdown of eEF2K. We also show that synaptic activity-dependent spine maturation and dendritic BDNF protein expression depend on mGluR/EF2K-induced eEF2 phosphorylation. We propose that the eEF2K/eEF2 pathway is a key biochemical sensor that couple neuronal activity to spine plasticity, by controlling the dendritic translation of BDNF.
Spatial attention permits to allocate more processing resources to a restricted portion of the visual space. The influential premotor theory states that the allocation of spatial attention relies on the same processes as those responsible for programming saccadic eye movements. Accordingly, several studies have already demonstrated a close spatial correspondence between attention and saccades. However, the question of the temporal coupling between attention displacements and saccades remains unclear. To address this issue, we compared the saccadic latencies to the temporal dynamics of attentional shifts under various cueing conditions known to affect attentional timing. In Experiment 1, we evaluated the effect of peripheral and central cues, and in Experiment 2, we assessed the influence of peripheral cues of different salience levels. We found that the different cue types had a similar effect on saccade latencies and on the dynamics of attentional shifts, either overt or covert. Moreover, even within a given cueing condition, attentional shift times were strongly correlated with saccadic latencies. These results indicate that, in agreement with the premotor theory, both spatial attention and saccades rely on a common process and that the allocation of spatial attention is tightly time-locked to saccade execution.
Sudden changes in our visual field capture our attention so that we are faster and more accurate in our responses to that region of space. The underlying mechanisms by which these behavioral improvements occur are unknown. Here we investigate the level of the visual system at which attentional capture first occurs by presenting cues to one eye and then a target to either the same or the opposite eye. We show that monocular cues initially only shorten response time if the target is presented in the same eye as the cue suggesting that the initial capture of attention occurs at monocular levels of the visual system. We use dual-cues that cannot be distinguished by binocular parts of the visual system but are detectable at monocular levels to show that performance enhancements occur entirely unconsciously and are not due to local sensory interactions. Furthermore, we show that the spatial and temporal properties of the new monocular cueing effect differ from standard binocular cueing. Our results inspire a monocular competition model where visual stimuli compete to generate a salience map at monocular levels of representation.
Long-term memory for fear of an environment (contextual fear conditioning) emerges later in development (postnatal day; PD 23) than long-term memory for fear of discrete stimuli (PD 17). As contextual, but not explicit cue, fear conditioning relies on the hippocampus; this has been interpreted as evidence that the hippocampus is not fully developed until PD 23. Alternatively, the hippocampus may be functional prior to PD 23, but unable to cooperate with the amygdala for fearful learning. The current experiments investigate this by separating the phases of conditioning across developmental stages. Rats were allowed to learn about the context on one day and to form the fearful association on another. Rats exposed to the context on PD 17 exhibited significant fear only when trained and tested a week later (PD 23, 24), but not on consecutive days (PD 18, 19), demonstrating that rats can learn about a context as early as PD 17. Further experiments clarify that it is associative mechanisms that are developing between PD 18 and 23. Finally, the hippocampus was lesioned prior to training to ensure the task is being solved in a hippocampus-dependent manner. These data provide compelling evidence that the hippocampus is functional for contextual learning as early as PD 17, however, its connection to the amygdala or other relevant brain structures may not yet be fully developed.
The NCB-20 neurohybridoma cells differentiated with dibutyryl-cyclic-AMP represent an interesting model to study several components of the gamma-hydroxybutyrate (GHB) system in brain. In particular, an active Na(+)-dependent uptake and a depolarization-evoked release of GHB is expressed by these cells, together with high affinity specific binding sites for this substance. However, only little is known about cellular mechanisms following GHB receptor(s) stimulation in these neurons. Electrophysiological data indicate that GHB can differently affect Ca(2+) currents. L-type calcium channels were typically inhibited by GHB when NCB-20 cells were depolarized. In contrast, when NCB-20 cells were at resting potential, GHB induced a specific Ca(2+) entry through T-type calcium channels. In this study, we investigated the effect induced on cytosolic free Ca(2+) level and cAMP production by GHB receptor(s) stimulated with micromolar concentrations of GHB or structural analogues of GHB. Ca(2+) movements studied by cellular imaging were dose-dependently increased but disappeared for GHB concentrations &gt;25 microM. In addition, nanomolar doses of GHB inhibited forskolin-stimulated adenylate cyclase. This effect was also rapidly desensitized at higher GHB concentrations. Acting as an antagonist, NCS-382 decreased GHB receptor(s) mediated cAMP and calcium signals. The agonist NCS-356 mimicked GHB effects which were not affected by the GABA(B) receptor antagonist CGP-55-845. Our results reveal the occurrence of Ca(2+)-dependent adenylate cyclase inhibition in NCB-20 neurons after GHB receptor(s) stimulation by GHB concentrations &lt;50 microM. Above this dose, GHB effects were inactivated. In addition, at GHB concentrations exceeding 50 microM, GTP-gammaS binding was also reduced, confirming the desensitization of GHB receptor(s). Taken together, these results support the existence in NCB-20 neurons of GHB receptors belonging to GPCR family that may recruit various G protein subtypes.
Progressive changes in the muscle tone and stretch reflex after spinal cord injury (SCI) provide insight into the time-course development of spasticity. This study quantified the time-course changes of hypertonia for rats following SCI of T8 hemisection. A miniature manual stretching device measured the reactive torque via a pair of pressure sensing balloons; the angular displacement was measured via an optoelectronic device. Various stretching frequencies were tested, specifically 1/3, 1/2, 1, 3/2 and 2 Hz. The reactive torque and angular displacement were used to derive the viscous and elastic components representing the viscosity and stiffness of the rat's ankle joint. The enhanced velocity-dependent properties of spasticity were observed in the SCI hemisection rats (n=9) but not in the controls (n=9). Time-course measurements from pre-surgery to 56 days following SCI showed that the muscle tone of the hemisection rats dropped immediately after spinal shock and then gradually increased to reach a peak around 21 days postinjury (P&lt;0.01). The muscle tone remained at least 75% of the peak value up to the end of an 8 week observation period (P&lt;0.05). The changes of muscle tone can also be verified from the electrophysiological evaluations of electromyography (EMG) (P&lt;0.05). In addition to conventional BBB motor behavior score, our results provided time-course quantification of the biomechanical and electrophysiological properties of muscle tone from the onset of SCI. Such data are useful for investigating progressive recovery of spinal damage in animal model and for future objective assessment of improved treatment for SCI human subjects.
Consumption beyond homeostatic needs, referred to here as reward-based feeding behavior, is a central contributor to the current obesity epidemic worldwide. Importantly, reward-based feeding can be driven by palatability, the taste and texture of the food, as well as cues associated with the consumption of palatable foods. The hypothalamic orexin system regulates both diet preference and anticipation of food rewards making it a likely target to modulate reward-based feeding behavior. In the current manuscript we hypothesized that orexin signaling mediates food-motivated behaviors and reward-based feeding behavior. We further hypothesized that orexin neurons and targets of the orexin system become activated in response to cues associated with the consumption of palatable food. Data from these studies suggest that orexin signaling promotes progressive ratio responding for palatable foods while blockade of orexin signaling attenuates reward-based feeding of a high fat diet. In addition, cues linked to the consumption of chocolate, or the receipt of a daily meal, activate the orexin system and its target regions differentially. Collectively, these data suggest that orexin signaling mediates reward-based feeding behavior and, within specific target regions, may regulate cue-induced overconsumption of palatable foods.
Compensatory movements mediate success in skilled reaching for food after stroke to the forelimb region of motor cortex (MtCx) in the rat. The present study asks whether the neural plasticity that enables compensation after motor stroke is preserved in aging. In order to avoid potential confounding effects of age-related negative-learning, rats were trained in a single pellet reaching task during young-adulthood. Subgroups were retested before and after contralateral forelimb MtCx stroke via pial stripping given at 3, 18, or 23 months of age. Over a two-month post-stroke rehabilitation period, end point measures were made of learned nonuse, recovery, retention, and performance ratings were made of reaching movement elements. Prior to stroke, young and aged rats maintained equivalent end point performance but older rats displayed compensatory changes in limb use as measured with ratings of the elements of forelimb movement. Following stroke, the aged groups of rats were more impaired on end point, movement, and anatomical measures. Nevertheless, the aged rats displayed substantial recovery via the use of compensatory movements. Thus, this study demonstrates that the neural plasticity that mediates compensatory movements after stroke in young adults is preserved prior to and following stroke in aging.
Extraversion/introversion is a basic dimension of personality that describes individual differences in social behavior and sensory sensitivity. Previous neuroimaging research exclusively relied on self reports for assessing personality traits. In recent years, implicit measures of personality have been developed that aim at assessing the implicit self-concept of personality and complement self report instruments which are thought to measure aspects of the explicit self-concept of personality. In the present study functional magnetic resonance imaging was used to examine automatic brain reactivity to facial expression as a function of both implicitly and explicitly measured extraversion in 30 healthy women. Sad, happy, and neutral faces were presented for 33 ms masked by neutral faces beside a no face control condition. Subjects evaluated the briefly shown neutral mask faces. The Implicit Association Test (IAT) and the NEO Five-Factor Inventory (NEO-FFI) were applied as measures of extraversion which were not correlated in our sample. IAT extraversion was negatively correlated with automatic reactivity of the caudate head, thalamus, and inferior frontal cortex to sad faces. NEO-FFI extraversion was negatively correlated with response of the inferior frontal cortex and putamen to sad faces. For masked happy faces, an inverse correlation of the IAT effect for extraversion with activation of the caudate head and superior parietal lobule was observed. NEO-FFI extraversion was inversely correlated with the response of the thalamus to happy faces. Neither NEO-FFI extraversion nor IAT effect were significantly related to brain response to masked neutral faces (compared to the no face condition). Taken together, a specific heightened responsivity of the fronto-striatal-thalamic circuit to facial emotions which are arousing stimuli might underlie introverts' preference for avoiding social interactions. Research on the neurobiology of extraversion could benefit from the application of implicit in addition to explicit measurement instruments when automatic neural responses are investigated.
Persistent Genital Arousal Disorder (PGAD) refers to the experience of persistent sensations of genital arousal that are felt to be unprovoked, intrusive and unrelieved by one or several orgasms. It is often mistaken for hypersexuality since PGAD often results in a high frequency of sexual behaviour. At present little is known with certainty about the etiology of this condition. We described a woman with typical PGAD symptoms and orgasmic seizures that we found to be related to a specific epileptic focus. We performed a EEG/MEG and fMRI spontaneous activity study during genital arousal symptoms and after the chronic administration of 300 mg/day of topiramate. From MEG data an epileptic focus was localized in the left posterior insular gyrus (LPIG). FMRI data evidenced that sexual excitation symptoms with PGAD could be correlated with an increased functional connectivity (FC) between different brain areas: LPIG (epileptic focus), left middle frontal gyrus, left inferior and superior temporal gyrus and left inferior parietal lobe. The reduction of the FC observed after antiepileptic therapy was more marked in the left than in the right hemisphere in agreement with the lateralization identified by MEG results. Treatment completely abolished PGAD symptoms and functional hyperconnectivity. The functional hyperconnectivity found in the neuronal network including the epileptic focus could suggest a possible central mechanism for PGAD.
Fusion of synaptic vesicles with the plasma membrane is mediated by the SNARE (soluble NSF attachment receptor) proteins and is regulated by synaptotagmin (syt). There are at least 17 syt isoforms that have the potential to act as modulators of membrane fusion events. Synaptotagmin IV (syt IV) is particularly interesting; it is an immediate early gene that is regulated by seizures and certain classes of drugs, and, in humans, syt IV maps to a region of chromosome 18 associated with schizophrenia and bipolar disease. Syt IV has recently been found to localize to dense core vesicles in hippocampal neurons, where it regulates neurotrophin release. Here we have examined the ultrastructure of cultured hippocampal neurons from wild-type and syt IV -/- mice using electron tomography. Perhaps surprisingly, we observed a potential synaptic vesicle transport defect in syt IV -/- neurons, with the accumulation of large numbers of small clear vesicles (putative axonal transport vesicles) near the trans-Golgi network. We also found an interaction between syt IV and KIF1A, a kinesin known to be involved in vesicle trafficking to the synapse. Finally, we found that syt IV -/- synapses exhibited reduced numbers of synaptic vesicles and a twofold reduction in the proportion of docked vesicles compared to wild-type. The proportion of docked vesicles in syt IV -/- boutons was further reduced, 5-fold, following depolarization.
We have recently identified hippocampal cell death and reduced neuronal and glial cells densities during adolescent nicotine and ethanol exposures and outcomes reduced in severity when nicotine and ethanol are co-administered during this developmental period. In the present study, we investigated the effects of adolescent nicotine and/or ethanol withdrawal on the following regions of the hippocampus: Granular layer of the Dentate Gyrus (GrDG), Molecular layer (Mol), CA1, CA2 and CA3. From the 30th to the 45th postnatal day (PN30-PN45), C57BL/6 male and female mice were exposed to nicotine free base (NIC) and/or ethanol (ETOH). Four groups were analyzed: (1) concomitant NIC (50 microg/ml in 2% saccharin to drink) and ETOH (25%, 2 g/kg i.p. injected every other day) exposure; (2) NIC exposure; (3) ETOH exposure; (4) vehicle. We evaluated cell degeneration (TUNEL assay), neuronal and glial densities (optical Disector) and region thicknesses two (PN47) and five (PN50) days post-exposure. On PN47, there were increases in the number of TUNEL+ cells in most hippocampal regions of both ETOH and NIC groups. In the NIC+ETOH group there were less severe effects. These results were paralleled by reductions in neuronal and glial cells densities for all treatment groups. In contrast, on PN50, ethanol and/or nicotine withdrawal were associated with compensatory reductions in TUNEL+ cells in all hippocampal regions. These results were paralleled by a reversal of effects on neuronal and glial densities so that there were no longer differences between groups. There were no effects on region thicknesses. These results suggest that deleterious effects of nicotine and/or ethanol are reversed during prolonged withdrawal.
We investigated the role of the glial water channel protein aquaporin-4 in brain edema in a mouse model of subarachnoid hemorrhage in which 30 microl of blood was injected into the basal cisterns. Brain water content, intracranial pressure and neurological score were compared in wildtype and aquaporin-4 null mice. We also measured blood-brain barrier permeability, and the osmotic permeability of the glia limitans, one of the routes of edema elimination. Wildtype and aquaporin-4 null mice had comparable baseline brain water content, intracranial pressure and neurological score. At 6 h after blood injection, aquaporin-4 null mice developed more brain swelling than wildtype mice. Brain water content increased by 1.5+/-0.1% vs. 0.5+/-0.2% (Mean+/-Standard Error, P&lt;0.0005) and intracranial pressure by 36+/-5 vs. 21+/-3 mm Hg (P&lt;0.05) above pre-injection baseline, and neurological score was worse at 18.0 vs. 24.5 (median, P&lt;0.05), respectively. Although subarachnoid hemorrhage produced comparable increases in blood-brain barrier permeability in wildtype and aquaporin-4 null mice, aquaporin-4 null mice had a twofold reduction in glia limitans osmotic permeability. We conclude that aquaporin-4 null mice manifest increased brain edema following subarachnoid hemorrhage as a consequence of reduced elimination of excess brain water.
The role of GABA(A) and GABA(B) receptors in the substantia nigra pars reticulata and the globus pallidus in turning behaviour of rats was studied. Unilateral injection of the GABA(A) receptor agonist muscimol (25 and 50 ng) into the substantia nigra pars reticulata elicited contralateral pivoting, namely tight head-to-tail turning marked by abnormal hindlimb backward stepping. This effect was GABA(A) receptor specific, since it was dose-dependent and prevented by co-administration of the GABA(A) receptor antagonist bicuculline (100 and 200 ng) which alone did not elicit turning behaviour. Unilateral injection of the GABA(B) receptor agonist baclofen (100 and 200 ng) into the substantia nigra pars reticulata also produced contralateral pivoting. This effect was GABA(B) receptor specific, since it was dose-dependent and inhibited by the GABA(B) receptor antagonist CGP 55845 (200 ng) which alone did not elicit turning behaviour. In contrast, unilateral injection of bicuculline (100 and 200 ng) into the globus pallidus produced contralateral circling, namely turning marked by normal stepping. This effect was GABA(A) receptor specific, since it was dose-dependent and prevented by muscimol (50 ng), which alone did not elicit turning behaviour. Unilateral injection of baclofen (100 and 200 ng) into the globus pallidus dose-dependently produced ipsilateral pivoting; this effect was inhibited by CGP 55845 (200 ng), which alone did not elicit turning behaviour. The present study demonstrates that GABA(A) and GABA(B) receptors in the globus pallidus and the substantina nigra pars reticulata play differential roles in the production of turning behaviour. This study underlines the notion that the two types of turning, namely pivoting and circling, are valid tools to map out the information flow across the basal ganglia.
Radial neuronal migration in the cerebral cortex depends on trophic factors and the activation of different voltage- and ligand-gated channels. To examine the functional role of GABA(C) receptors in radial migration we analyzed the effects of specific GABA(A) and GABA(C) receptor antagonists on the migration of BrdU-labeled neurons in vitro using organotypic neocortical slice cultures. These experiments revealed that the GABA(A) specific inhibitor bicuculline methiodide facilitated neuronal migration, while the GABA(C) specific inhibitor (1,2,5,6-tetrahydropyridine-4-yl) methylphosphinic-acid (TPMPA) impeded migration. Co-application of TPMPA and bicuculline methiodide or the unspecific ionotropic GABA receptor antagonist picrotoxin both impeded migration, suggesting that the GABA(C) receptor mediated effects dominate. Addition of the specific GABA(C) receptor agonist cis-4-aminocrotonic acid (CACA) also hampered migration, indicating that a physiological GABAergic stimulation is required for appropriate function. RT-PCR experiments using specific probes for GABA(C) receptor mRNA and Western blot assays using an antibody directed against rho subunits revealed the expression of GABA(C) receptor mRNA and translated GABA(C) receptor protein in the immature cortex. Microfluorimetric Ca(2+) imaging in neurons of identified cortical layers using Calcium Green revealed the functional expression of GABA(A) and GABA(C) receptors in the intermediate zone, while only GABA(A) receptor mediated responses were observed in the upper cortical plate. In summary, these results demonstrate that activation of GABA(C) receptors is a prerequisite for accurate migration and that GABA(C) receptors are functionally expressed in the intermediate zone.
The protective effect of an iridoid catalpol extracted and purified from the traditional Chinese medicinal herb Rehmannia glutinosa on the neuronal degeneration of nigral-striatal dopaminergic pathway was studied in a chronic 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,4-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)/probenecid C57BL/6 mouse model and in 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridimium (MPP(+)) intoxicated cultured mesencephalic neurons. Rotarod performance revealed that the locomotor ability of mice was significantly impaired after completion of model production and maintained thereafter for at least 4 weeks. Catalpol orally administered for 8 weeks (starting from the second week of model production) dose dependently improved the locomotor ability. HPLC revealed that catalpol significantly elevated striatal dopamine levels without changing the metabolite/dopamine ratios. Nor did it bind to dopamine receptors. Therefore it is unlikely that catalpol resembles any of the known compounds for treating Parkinsonism. Instead, catalpol dose dependently raised the tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) neuron number in substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc), the striatal dopamine transporter (DAT) density and the striatal glial cell derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) protein level. Linear regression revealed that both the TH neuron number and DAT density were positively correlated to the GDNF level. In the cultured mesencephalic neurons, MPP(+) decreased the dopaminergic neuron number and shortened the neurite length, whereas catalpol showed protective effect dose dependently. Furthermore, the expression of GDNF mRNA was up-regulated by catalpol to a peak nearly double of normal control in neurons intoxicated with MPP(+) for 24 h but not in normal neurons. The GDNF receptor tyrosine kinase RET inhibitor 4-amino-5-(4-methyphenyl)-7-(t-butyl)-pyrazolo-[3,4-d]pyrimidine (PP1) abolished the protective effect of catalpol either partially (TH positive neuron number) or completely (neurite length). Taken together, catalpol improves locomotor ability by attenuating the neuronal degeneration of nigral-striatal dopaminergic pathway, and this attenuation is at least partially through elevating the striatal GDNF expression.
Haloperidol exerts its therapeutic effects basically by acting on dopamine receptors. We previously reported that haloperidol inhibits cholesterol biosynthesis in cultured cells. In the present work we investigated its effects on lipid-raft composition and functionality. In both neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y and promyelocytic HL-60 human cell lines, haloperidol inhibited cholesterol biosynthesis resulting in a decrease of the cell cholesterol content and the accumulation of different sterol intermediates (7-dehydrocholesterol, zymostenol and cholesta-8,14-dien-3beta-ol) depending on the dose of the drug. As a consequence, the cholesterol content in lipid rafts was greatly reduced, and several pre-cholesterol sterols, particularly cholesta-8,14-dien-3beta-ol, were incorporated into the cell membrane. This was accompanied by the disruption of lipid rafts, with redistribution of flotillin-1 and Fyn and the impairment of insulin-Akt signaling. Supplementing the medium with free cholesterol abrogated the effects of haloperidol on lipid-raft composition and functionality. LDL (low-density lipoprotein), a physiological vehicle of cholesterol in plasma, was much less effective in preventing the effects of haloperidol, which is attributed to the drug's inhibition of intracellular vesicular trafficking. These effects on cellular cholesterol homeostasis that ultimately result in the alteration of lipid-raft-dependent insulin signaling action may underlie some of the metabolic effects of this widely used antipsychotic.
Few studies have examined associations between depressive symptoms and alterations in neural systems that subserve cognitive control. Cognitive control was assessed with an exogenous cueing task using happy, sad, and neutral facial expressions as cues among women with mild to moderate symptoms of depression and a non-depressed control group while functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) measured brain activity. Amygdala and medial/orbital prefrontal cortex (PFC) response to valid emotion cues did not differ as a function of depression symptoms. However, significant depression group differences were observed when task demands required cognitive control. Participants with elevated depression symptoms showed weaker activation in right and left lateral PFC and parietal regions when shifting attentional focus away from invalid emotion cues. No depression group differences were observed for invalid non-emotional cues. Findings suggest that mild to moderate depression symptoms are associated with altered function in brain regions that mediate cognitive control of emotional information.
Heterozygous mutations in ClC-2 have been associated in rare cases with increased susceptibility to generalized, idiopathic epilepsy. Initially, it was hypothesized that mutations in ClC-2 may be associated with epilepsy due to a direct role for ClC-2 in the modification of hippocampal neuronal excitability. However, the absence of an overt seizure-susceptibility phenotype in young ClC-2 knockout (KO) mice rendered this hypothesis- implausible. A recent study of older ClC-2 KO mice (&gt;6 months) revealed abnormalities in the myelin of central axons and a subtle defect in the neuronal function in the central auditory pathway. These findings prompted us to re-examine hippocampal neuron morphology and excitability in older ClC-2 KO mice. Interestingly, electrocorticographic recordings obtained in older mice revealed spontaneous interictal spikes which are a marker of perturbed hippocampal neurotransmission with a resultant increase in excitation. This electrophysiological defect was associated with astrocyte activation and evidence of neuronal degeneration in the CA3 region of the hippocampus of these older mice. Together, these findings raise the possibility that ClC-2 expression plays a subtle neuroprotective role in the aging hippocampus.
The perifornical-lateral hypothalamic area (PF-LHA) plays a central role in the regulation of behavioral arousal. The PF-LHA contains several neuronal types including wake-active hypocretin (HCRT) neurons that have been implicated in the promotion and/or maintenance of behavioral arousal. Adenosine is an endogenous sleep factor and recent evidence suggests that activation and blockade of adenosine A(1) receptors within the PF-LHA promote and suppress sleep, respectively. Although, an in vitro study indicates that adenosine inhibits HCRT neurons via A(1) receptor, the in vivo effects of A(1) receptor mediated adenosinergic transmission on PF-LHA neurons including HCRT neurons are not known. First, we determined the effects of N(6)-cyclopentyladenosine (CPA), an adenosine A(1) receptor agonist, on the sleep-wake discharge activity of the PF-LHA neurons recorded via microwires placed adjacent to the microdialysis probe used for its delivery. Second, we determined the effects of CPA and that of an A(1) receptor antagonist, 1,3-dipropyl-8-phenylxanthine (CPDX) into the PF-LHA on cFos-protein immunoreactivity (Fos-IR) in HCRT and non-HCRT neurons around the microdialysis probe used for their delivery. The effect of CPA on Fos-IR was studied in rats that were kept awake during lights-off phase, whereas the effect of CPDX was examined in undisturbed rats during lights-on phase. CPA significantly suppressed the sleep-wake discharge activity of PF-LHA neurons. Doses of CPA (50 muM) and CPDX (50 muM) that suppressed and induced arousal, respectively, in our earlier study [Alam MN, Kumar S, Rai S, Methippara M, Szymusiak R, McGinty D (2009) Brain Res 1304:96-104], significantly suppressed and increased Fos-IR in HCRT and non-HCRT neurons. These findings suggest that wake-promoting PF-LHA system is subject to increased endogenous adenosinergic inhibition and that adenosine acting via A(1) receptors, in part, inhibits HCRT neurons to promote sleep.
Age-dependent decrease in dopamine receptor density throughout adulthood is well described, meanwhile less is known about development of dopamine system in humans and in vivo it has not been investigated. We examined dopamine D1 receptor (D1DR) binding in the cerebral cortex and striatum of 12 adolescents (mean age 13.5+/-1.8 years) and 18 young adults (25+/-2.3 years) using positron emission tomography (PET) and radioligand [(11)C]SCH23390. Over the age span of 10-30 years [(11)C]SCH23390 binding (binding potential, BP) declined in all brain regions. The rate of BP decline was age-segment and brain region dependent. Most pronounced decline in BP was observed in the cortical regions during adolescence (mean BP in adults lower by 14-26% as compared to adolescents, P&lt;0.0001). Significantly slower rate of decline in BP was observed in two cortical regions (orbitofrontal and posterior cingulate cortices) and striatal regions. The present PET-study provides new evidence on the development of D1DR in humans in vivo which is of critical importance for understanding of the biology of neurodevelopmental disorders.
In our previous studies, we found that cells in the caudal intraparietal (CIP) area of the macaque monkey selectively responded to three-dimensional (3D) features, such as the axis and surface orientations, and we suggested that this area played a crucial role in 3D vision. In this study, we investigated (1) whether cells in CIP respond to other 3D features, such as curvature, and (2) whether CIP has any histological property to distinguish it from neighboring areas. Curvatures defined by a random-dot stereogram were presented on a display while the monkey performed a fixation task. The shape and amount of curvature were manipulated by two independent variables, shape index and curvedness, respectively. Two-way ANOVA showed that 19 out of 56 visually responsive cells (34.0%) showed the main effect of shape index. We tentatively designated these cells as 3D curvature-selective (3DCS). Of these, six 3DCS cells showed the main effects of shape index and curvedness, whereas 13 showed the main effect of shape index only. In both types of 3DCS cells, preferred shape indices calculated from tuning curves at two levels of curvedness matched well. These results indicate that the majority of 3DCS cells responded equally to a particular shape of curvatures with different curvedness levels. An immunohistochemical study showed that the recording sites of 3DCS cells were in a cortical region characterized by a dense SMI-32 immunoreactivity in the caudal portion of the lateral intraparietal sulcus (IPS), which suggests that this region is comparable to the lateral occipital parietal (LOP) designated in the caudal IPS previously. Further investigations showed that this region was separated from LIPv, the ventral subdivision of lateral intraparietal (LIP) located rostral to CIP/LOP. These results suggest that CIP is a cortical area distinct from LIP histologically as well as functionally.
NMDA receptors are found in neurons both at synapses and in extrasynaptic locations. Extrasynaptic locations are poorly characterized. Here we used preembedding immunoperoxidase and postembedding immunogold electron microscopy and fluorescence light microscopy to characterize extrasynaptic NMDA receptor locations in dissociated hippocampal neurons in vitro and in the adult and postnatal hippocampus in vivo. We found that extrasynaptic NMDA receptors on neurons in vivo and in vitro were usually concentrated at points of contact with adjacent processes, which were mainly axons, axon terminals, or glia. Many of these contacts were shown to contain adhesion factors such as cadherin and catenin. We also found associations of extrasynaptic NMDA receptors with the membrane associated guanylate kinase (MAGUKs), postsynaptic density (PSD)-95 and SAP102. Developmental differences were also observed. At postnatal day 2 in vivo, extrasynaptic NMDA receptors could often be found at sites with distinct densities whereas dense material was seen only rarely at sites of extrasynaptic NMDA receptors in the adult hippocampus in vivo. This difference probably indicates that many sites of extrasynaptic NMDA receptors in early postnatal ages represent synapse formation or possibly sites for synapse elimination. At all ages, as suggested in both in vivo and in vitro studies, extrasynaptic NMDA receptors on dendrites or the sides of spines may form complexes with other proteins, in many cases, at stable associations with adjacent cell processes. These associations may facilitate unique functions for extrasynaptic NMDA receptors.

A central goal of modern neuroscience is to obtain a mechanistic understanding of higher brain functions under healthy and diseased conditions. Addressing this challenge requires rigorous experimental and theoretical analysis of neuronal circuits. Recent advances in optogenetics, high-resolution in vivo imaging, and reconstructions of synaptic wiring diagrams have created new opportunities to achieve this goal. To fully harness these methods, model organisms should allow for a combination of genetic and neurophysiological approaches in vivo. Moreover, the brain should be small in terms of neuron numbers and physical size. A promising vertebrate organism is the zebrafish because it is small, it is transparent at larval stages and it offers a wide range of genetic tools and advantages for neurophysiological approaches. Recent studies have highlighted the potential of zebrafish for exhaustive measurements of neuronal activity patterns, for manipulations of defined cell types in vivo and for studies of causal relationships between circuit function and behavior. In this article, we summarize background information on the zebrafish as a model in modern systems neuroscience and discuss recent results.
New single-cell recordings show that humans do have mirror neurons, and in more brain regions than previously suspected. Some action-execution neurons were seen to be inhibited during observation, possibly preventing imitation and helping self/other discrimination.
In both humans and mice, the efficacy of working memory capacity and its related process, selective attention, are each strongly predictive of individuals' aggregate performance in cognitive test batteries [1-9]. Because working memory is taxed during most cognitive tasks, the efficacy of working memory may have a causal influence on individuals' performance on tests of &quot;intelligence&quot; [10, 11]. Despite the attention this has received, supporting evidence has been largely correlational in nature (but see [12]). Here, genetically heterogeneous mice were assessed on a battery of five learning tasks. Animals' aggregate performance across the tasks was used to estimate their general cognitive abilities, a trait that is in some respects analogous to intelligence [13, 14]. Working memory training promoted an increase in animals' selective attention and their aggregate performance on these tasks. This enhancement of general cognitive performance by working memory training was attenuated if its selective attention demands were reduced. These results provide evidence that the efficacy of working memory capacity and selective attention may be causally related to an animal's general cognitive performance and provide a framework for behavioral strategies to promote those abilities. Furthermore, the pattern of behavior reported here reflects a conservation of the processes that regulate general cognitive performance in humans and infrahuman animals.

Simple everyday tasks, such as visual search, require a visual system that is sensitive to differences. Here we report how observers perceive changes in natural image stimuli, and what happens if objects change color, position, or identity-i.e., when the external scene changes in a naturalistic manner. We investigated whether a V1-based difference-prediction model can predict the magnitude ratings given by observers to suprathreshold differences in numerous pairs of natural images. The model incorporated contrast normalization and surround suppression, and elongated receptive-fields. Observers' ratings were better predicted when the model included phase invariance, and even more so when the stimuli were inverted and negated to lessen their semantic impact. Some feature changes were better predicted than others: the model systematically underpredicted observers' perception of the magnitude of blur, but over-predicted their ability to report changes in textures.
Can the experience of an emotion persist once the memory for what induced the emotion has been forgotten? We capitalized on a rare opportunity to study this question directly using a select group of patients with severe amnesia following circumscribed bilateral damage to the hippocampus. The amnesic patients underwent a sadness induction procedure (using affectively-laden film clips) to ascertain whether their experience of sadness would persist beyond their memory for the sadness-inducing films. The experiment showed that the patients continued to experience elevated levels of sadness well beyond the point in time at which they had lost factual memory for the film clips. A second experiment using a happiness induction procedure yielded similar results, suggesting that both positive and negative emotional experiences can persist independent of explicit memory for the inducing event. These findings provide direct evidence that a feeling of emotion can endure beyond the conscious recollection for the events that initially triggered the emotion.
Proper regulation of neurotransmission requires that ligand-activated ion channels remain closed until agonist binds. How channels then open remains poorly understood. Glycine receptor (GlyR) gating is initiated by agonist binding at interfaces between adjacent subunits in the extracellular domain. Aspartate-97, located at the alpha1 GlyR interface, is a conserved residue in the cys-loop receptor superfamily. The mutation of D97 to arginine (D97R) causes spontaneous channel opening, with open and closed dwell times similar to those of maximally activated WT GlyR. Using a model of the N-terminal domain of the alpha1 GlyR, we hypothesized that an arginine-119 residue was forming intersubunit electrostatic bonds with D97. The D97R/R119E charge reversal restored this interaction, stabilizing channels in their closed states. Cysteine substitution shows that this link occurs between adjacent subunits. This intersubunit electrostatic interaction among GlyR subunits thus contributes to the stabilization of the closed channel state, and its disruption represents a critical step in GlyR activation.
We investigated connections between the physiology of rat barrel cortex neurons and the sensation of vibration in humans. One set of experiments measured neuronal responses in anesthetized rats to trains of whisker deflections, each train characterized either by constant amplitude across all deflections or by variable amplitude (&quot;amplitude noise&quot;). Firing rate and firing synchrony were, on average, boosted by the presence of noise. However, neurons were not uniform in their responses to noise. Barrel cortex neurons have been categorized as regular-spiking units (putative excitatory neurons) and fast-spiking units (putative inhibitory neurons). Among regular-spiking units, amplitude noise caused a higher firing rate and increased cross-neuron synchrony. Among fast-spiking units, noise had the opposite effect: It led to a lower firing rate and decreased cross-neuron synchrony. This finding suggests that amplitude noise affects the interaction between inhibitory and excitatory neurons. From these physiological effects, we expected that noise would lead to an increase in the perceived intensity of a vibration. We tested this notion using psychophysical measurements in humans. As predicted, subjects overestimated the intensity of noisy vibrations. Thus the physiological mechanisms present in barrel cortex also appear to be at work in the human tactile system, where they affect vibration perception.
Human choice behavior takes account of internal decision costs: people show a tendency to avoid making decisions in ways that are computationally demanding and subjectively effortful. Here, we investigate neural processes underlying the registration of decision costs. We report two functional MRI experiments that implicate lateral prefrontal cortex (LPFC) in this function. In Experiment 1, LPFC activity correlated positively with a self-report measure of costs as this measure varied over blocks of simple decisions. In Experiment 2, LPFC activity also correlated with individual differences in effort-based choice, taking on higher levels in subjects with a strong tendency to avoid cognitively demanding decisions. These relationships persisted even when effects of reaction time and error were partialled out, linking LPFC activity to subjectively experienced costs and not merely to response accuracy or time on task. In contrast to LPFC, dorsomedial frontal cortex--an area widely implicated in performance monitoring--showed no relationship to decision costs independent of overt performance. Previous work has implicated LPFC in executive control. Our results thus imply that costs may be registered based on the degree to which control mechanisms are recruited during decision-making.
Familial Danish dementia (FDD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease with cerebral deposition of Dan-amyloid (ADan), neuroinflammation, and neurofibrillary tangles, hallmark characteristics remarkably similar to those in Alzheimer's disease (AD). We have generated transgenic (tg) mouse models of familial Danish dementia that exhibit the age-dependent deposition of ADan throughout the brain with associated amyloid angiopathy, microhemorrhage, neuritic dystrophy, and neuroinflammation. Tg mice are impaired in the Morris water maze and exhibit increased anxiety in the open field. When crossed with TauP301S tg mice, ADan accumulation promotes neurofibrillary lesions, in all aspects similar to the Tau lesions observed in crosses between beta-amyloid (Abeta)-depositing tg mice and TauP301S tg mice. Although these observations argue for shared mechanisms of downstream pathophysiology for the sequence-unrelated ADan and Abeta peptides, the lack of codeposition of the two peptides in crosses between ADan- and Abeta-depositing mice points also to distinguishing properties of the peptides. Our results support the concept of the amyloid hypothesis for AD and related dementias, and suggest that different proteins prone to amyloid formation can drive strikingly similar pathogenic pathways in the brain.
Driven either by external landmarks or by internal dynamics, hippocampal neurons form sequences of cell assemblies. The coordinated firing of these active cells is organized by the prominent &quot;theta&quot; oscillations in the local field potential (LFP): place cells discharge at progressively earlier theta phases as the rat crosses the respective place field (&quot;phase precession&quot;). The faster oscillation frequency of active neurons and the slower theta LFP, underlying phase precession, creates a paradox. How can faster oscillating neurons comprise a slower population oscillation, as reflected by the LFP? We built a mathematical model that allowed us to calculate the population activity analytically from experimentally derived parameters of the single neuron oscillation frequency, firing field size (duration), and the relationship between within-theta delays of place cell pairs and their distance representations (&quot;compression&quot;). The appropriate combination of these parameters generated a constant frequency population rhythm along the septo-temporal axis of the hippocampus, while allowing individual neurons to vary their oscillation frequency and field size. Our results suggest that the faster-than-theta oscillations of pyramidal cells are inherent and that phase precession is a result of the coordinated activity of temporally shifted cell assemblies, relative to the population activity, reflected by the LFP.
Gliomas are the most common primary brain tumors of the central nervous system. Despite relevant progress in conventional treatments, the prognosis of such tumors remains almost invariably dismal. The genesis of gliomas is a complex, multistep process that includes cellular neoplastic transformation, resistance to apoptosis, loss of control of the cell cycle, angiogenesis, and the acquisition of invasive properties. Among a number of different biomolecular events, the existence of molecular connections between inflammation and oxidative stress pathways and the development of this cancer has been demonstrated. In particular, the tumor microenvironment, which is largely orchestrated by inflammatory molecules, is an indispensable participant in the neoplastic process, promoting proliferation, survival and migration of such tumors. Proinflammatory cytokines, such as tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interleukin-1beta, and interferon-gamma, as well as chemokines and prostaglandins, are synthesized by resident brain cells and lymphocytes invading the affected brain tissue. Key mediators of cancer progression include nuclear factor-kappaB, reactive oxygen and nitrogen species, and specific microRNAs. The collective activity of these mediators is largely responsible for a pro-tumorigenic response through changes in cell proliferation, cell death, cellular senescence, DNA mutation rates, DNA methylation and angiogenesis. We provide a general overview of the connection between specific inflammation and oxidative stress pathway molecules and gliomas. The elucidation of specific effects and interactions of these factors may provide the opportunity for the identification of new target molecules leading to improved diagnosis and treatment.
The enzyme beta-secretase (BACE1) is essentially involved in the production of cerebral amyloidogenic pathology in Alzheimer's disease (AD). The measurement of BACE1 activity in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) has been reported, which may render CSF measurement of BACE1 a potential biomarker candidate of AD. In order to investigate whether BACE1 protein activity is correlated with regional brain atrophy in AD, we investigated the association between CSF levels of BACE1 and MRI-assessed hippocampus volume in patients with AD (n=30). An increase in CSF-BACE1 activity was associated with decreased left and right hippocampus volume corrected for global head volume in the AD patients. Boot-strapped regression analysis showed that increased CSF levels of BACE1 activity were associated with increased CSF concentration of total tau but not amyloid-beta{1-42} in AD. White matter hyperintensities did not influence the results. BACE1 activity and protein levels were significantly increased in AD compared to 19 elderly healthy controls. Thus, the CSF biomarker candidate of BACE1 activity was associated with hippocampus atrophy in AD in a robust manner and may reflect neurotoxic amyloid-beta-related processes.
Pancreatitis-associated protein (PAP)-I and -II, lectin-related secretory proteins, are members of the regenerating gene (Reg) family. Although expression of PAP-I was found in the dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons following peripheral nerve injury and cystitis, whether PAP-II could be expressed in DRG neurons in chronic pain models remains unclear. The present study shows an inflammation- and nerve injury-triggered expression of PAP-II in rat DRG neurons. In situ hybridization showed that only a few DRG neurons normally contained PAP-I and -II mRNAs. After peripheral inflammation, PAP-I and -II mRNAs were present in over half of small DRG neurons. Such an elevated expression of PAP-I and -II reached the peak level on the second day. Immunostaining showed that the expression of PAP-II was mostly increased in the isolectin B4-positive subset of small DRG neurons after inflammation. Furthermore, the expression of PAP-II was also induced in DRG neurons after peripheral nerve injury. Interestingly, PAP-II expression was shifted from small neurons on day 2 to large DRG neurons that expressed neuropeptide Y during the later post-injury days. These results suggest that PAP-II may play potential roles in the modulation of spinal sensory pathways in pathological pain states.
[(3)H]cimetidine, a radiolabeled histamine H(2) receptor antagonist, binds with high affinity to an unknown hemoprotein in the brain which is not the histamine H(2) receptor. Improgan, a close chemical congener of cimetidine, is a highly effective pain-relieving drug following CNS administration, yet its mechanism of action remains unknown. To test the hypothesis that the [(3)H]cimetidine-binding site is the improgan antinociceptive target, improgan, cimetidine, and 8 other chemical congeners were studied as potential inhibitors of [(3)H]cimetidine binding in membrane fractions from the rat brain. All compounds produced a concentration-dependent inhibition of [(3)H]cimetidine binding over a 500-fold range of potencies (K(i) values were 14.5 to &gt;8000nM). However, antinociceptive potencies in rats did not significantly correlate with [(3)H]cimetidine-binding affinities (r=0.018, p=0.97, n=10). These results suggest that the [(3)H]cimetidine-binding site is not the analgesic target for improgan-like drugs.


Acoustic communication involves both the generation and the detection of a signal. In the coqui frog (Eleutherodactylus coqui), it is known that the spectral contents of its calls systematically change with altitude above sea level. Here, distortion product otoacoustic emissions are used to assess the frequency range over which the inner ear is sensitive. It is found that both the spectral contents of the calls and the inner-ear sensitivity change in a similar fashion along an altitudinal gradient. As a result, the call frequencies and the auditory tuning are closely matched at all altitudes. We suggest that the animal's body size determines the frequency particulars of the call apparatus and the inner ear.
Hippocampal cholinergic neurostimulating peptide (HCNP), originally purified from young rat hippocampus, has been known to promote the differentiation of septo-hippocampal cholinergic neurons. Recently, the precursor protein of HCNP (HCNP-pp) has also received attention as a multifunctional protein with roles, in addition to serving as the HCNP precursor, such as acting as an ATP-binding protein, a Raf kinase inhibitor protein (RKIP), and phosphatidylethanolamine-binding protein (PEBP). In particular, the function of RKIP has attracted attention over several years for its role in controlling cellular proliferation and metastasis in cancer cells. HCNP-pp is also thought to be important in regulating the proliferation and differentiation of neuronal cells in vitro and in vivo by modification of the MAPK cascade. In the present study, we used cultured adult rat hippocampal progenitor cells (AHPs), which are thought to be important for memory formation, and focused on the role of HCNP-pp in adult neurogenesis, namely, the production of new neurons from neural stem/progenitor cells. We found that HCNP-pp expression in AHPs was closely associated with differentiation into MAP2ab-positive neurons and RIP-positive oligodendrocytes, but not into GFAP-positive astrocytes. By contrast, a down-regulated HCNP-pp expression in AHPs accompanied differentiation into GFAP-positive astrocytes. Direct manipulations of HCNP-pp via viral over-expression or siRNA downregulation further confirmed the HCNP-pp contribution to specific neural lineage commitment of AHPs. Our results show that the expression level of HCNP-pp acts as a key regulator for differentiation of cultured AHPs into specific neural lineages, indicating that the control of neural stem cell fate can be achieved via the HCNP-pp pathway.
Small molecules inhibiting hypoxia inducible factor (HIF) prolyl hydroxylases (PHDs) are the focus of drug development efforts directed toward the treatment of ischemia and metabolic imbalance. A cell-based reporter produced by fusing HIF-1 alpha oxygen degradable domain (ODD) to luciferase was shown to work as a capture assay monitoring stability of the overexpressed luciferase-labeled HIF PHD substrate under conditions more physiological than in vitro test tubes. High throughput screening identified novel catechol and oxyquinoline pharmacophores with a &quot;branching motif&quot; immediately adjacent to a Fe-binding motif that fits selectively into the HIF PHD active site in in silico models. In accord with their structure-activity relationship in the primary screen, the best &quot;hits&quot; stabilize HIF1 alpha, upregulate known HIF target genes in a human neuronal line, and exert neuroprotective effects in established model of oxidative stress in cortical neurons.
Genetic and biochemical studies have established a central role for alpha-synuclein accumulation in the pathogenesis of Parkinson disease. Here, two microRNAs, namely mir-7 and mir-153, have been identified to regulate alpha-synuclein levels post-transcriptionally. These microRNAs bind specifically to the 3'-untranslated region of alpha-synuclein and down-regulate its mRNA and protein levels, with their effect being additive. They are expressed predominantly in the brain with a pattern that mirrors synuclein expression in different tissues as well as during neuronal development, indicating that they play a tuning role in the amount of alpha-synuclein produced. Overexpression of mir-7 and mir-153 significantly reduces endogenous alpha-synuclein levels, whereas inhibition of mir-7 and mir-153 enhances translation of a luciferase construct bearing the alpha-synuclein 3'-untranslated region in primary neurons. These findings reveal a significant additional mechanism by which alpha-synuclein is regulated and point toward new therapeutic regimes for lowering endogenous alpha-synuclein levels in patients with familial or sporadic Parkinson disease.
Loss of fragile X mental retardation protein FMR1 is the most common genetic cause of mental deficiency in man. We find that both FMR1 and the related FXR1 serve as direct binding partners for the Cdc42 effector PAK1. This involves an 11 residue segment in the PAK1 autoinhibitory domain that is exposed upon kinase activation and binds the FXR1 KH2 domain. Active PAK1 can phosphorylate FXR1 at Ser420; antibodies to this site show increased phosphorylation when fragile X proteins are recruited to stress granules. During zebrafish muscle development, FXR1 Ser420 phosphorylation is needed for protein function. The familial FMR1(I304N) mutation is biologically inactive, and FXR1(I304N) fails to bind PAK1. A different PAK1 binding-deficient mutant, FXR1(Q348K/E352A), fails to rescue loss of Zf-FXR1 unless combined with a gain-of-function S420D phosphomimetic. This is the first documented protein partner for the KH(2) domain of FMR1 or FXR1, and it has several implications for signaling by fragile X proteins.

The brain regions involved with trace fear conditioning (TFC) and delayed fear conditioning (DFC) are well-characterized, but little is known about the cellular representation subsuming these types of classical conditioning. Previous evidence has shown that activation of the amygdala is required for both TFC and DFC, while TFC also involves the hippocampus for forming conditioned response to tone. Lesions of the hippocampus did not affect tone learning in DFC, but it impaired learning in TFC. Synaptic plasticity in the hippocampus, underlying a cellular representation subsuming learning and memory, is in part modulated by extra-cellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) signaling pathway. ERK1/2 activation is required for both TFC and DFC during memory formation, but whether this pathway is involved in memory retrieval of TFC is still unknown. In the present study, we investigated changes in ERK1/2 phosphorylation after memory retrieval in groups of mice that received TFC, DFC, tone-shock un-paired conditioning, and nave control. Our results showed that ERK1/2 phosphorylation was elevated in the hippocampal CA1 region after retrieval of all conditioned fear responses. In particular, in the TFC group, immunohistochemistry indicated higher level of ERK1/2 phosphorylation in the hippocampal pyramidal neurons 30min after tone testing. Inhibition of the ERK1/2 signaling pathway diminished fear memory elicited by a tone in TFC. Together these results suggest that the memory retrieval process in TFC is more dependent on ERK1/2 signaling pathway than that in DFC. ERK1/2 signaling is critical for retrieval associative memory of temporally noncontiguous stimuli.
Glioblastoma is one of the most common primary brain tumors and one of the most difficult to treat. In population-based studies only 30% of patients will survive 1 year and in the most efficacious surgery, irradiation, and chemotherapy clinical trials approximately 20% will live 2 years. Bevacizumab is a recombinant, antivascular epidermal growth factor receptor (VEGF) monoclonal antibody with 6 VEGF-binding residues that binds to VEGF, preventing VEGF from binding to its target, VEGFR-1 and VEGFR-2, on endothelial cells. Through its binding to VEGF ligands bevacizumab reduces tumor angiogenesis and vasogenic brain edema; the consequences are that bevacizumab reduces the rate of glioblastoma tumor growth and its associated tumoral edema, thereby improving quality of life and survival for patients suffering from cerebral glioblastoma. In this review, we will summarize the studies that led to the use of bevacizumab in glioblastoma and the potential side-effects and complications that can be associated with its use and, finally, new opportunities for drug combinations with bevacizumab.
The cerebral cortex constructs a coherent representation of the world by integrating distinct features of the sensory environment. Although these features are processed vertically across cortical layers, horizontal projections interconnecting neighbouring cortical domains allow these features to be processed in a context-dependent manner. Despite the wealth of physiological and psychophysical studies addressing the function of horizontal projections, how they coordinate activity among cortical domains remains poorly understood. We addressed this question by selectively activating horizontal projection neurons in mouse somatosensory cortex, and determined how the resulting spatial pattern of excitation and inhibition affects cortical activity. We found that horizontal projections suppress superficial layers while simultaneously activating deeper cortical output layers. This layer-specific modulation does not result from a spatial separation of excitation and inhibition, but from a layer-specific ratio between these two opposing conductances. Through this mechanism, cortical domains exploit horizontal projections to compete for cortical space.

Primary visual cortex is often viewed as a &quot;cyclopean retina&quot;, performing the initial encoding of binocular disparities between left and right images. Because the eyes are set apart horizontally in the head, binocular disparities are predominantly horizontal. Yet, especially in the visual periphery, a range of non-zero vertical disparities do occur and can influence perception. It has therefore been assumed that primary visual cortex must contain neurons tuned to a range of vertical disparities. Here, I show that this is not necessarily the case. Many disparity-selective neurons are most sensitive to changes in disparity orthogonal to their preferred orientation. That is, the disparity tuning surfaces, mapping their response to different two-dimensional (2D) disparities, are elongated along the cell's preferred orientation. Because of this, even if a neuron's optimal 2D disparity has zero vertical component, the neuron will still respond best to a non-zero vertical disparity when probed with a sub-optimal horizontal disparity. This property can be used to decode 2D disparity, even allowing for realistic levels of neuronal noise. Even if all V1 neurons at a particular retinotopic location are tuned to the expected vertical disparity there (for example, zero at the fovea), the brain could still decode the magnitude and sign of departures from that expected value. This provides an intriguing counter-example to the common wisdom that, in order for a neuronal population to encode a quantity, its members must be tuned to a range of values of that quantity. It demonstrates that populations of disparity-selective neurons encode much richer information than previously appreciated. It suggests a possible strategy for the brain to extract rarely-occurring stimulus values, while concentrating neuronal resources on the most commonly-occurring situations.
The threshold firing frequency of a neuron is a characterizing feature of its dynamical behaviour, in turn determining its role in the oscillatory activity of the brain. Two main types of dynamics have been identified in brain neurons. Type 1 dynamics (regular spiking) shows a continuous relationship between frequency and stimulation current (f-I(stim)) and, thus, an arbitrarily low frequency at threshold current; Type 2 (fast spiking) shows a discontinuous f-I(stim) relationship and a minimum threshold frequency. In a previous study of a hippocampal neuron model, we demonstrated that its dynamics could be of both Type 1 and Type 2, depending on ion channel density. In the present study we analyse the effect of varying channel density on threshold firing frequency on two well-studied axon membranes, namely the frog myelinated axon and the squid giant axon. Moreover, we analyse the hippocampal neuron model in more detail. The models are all based on voltage-clamp studies, thus comprising experimentally measurable parameters. The choice of analysing effects of channel density modifications is due to their physiological and pharmacological relevance. We show, using bifurcation analysis, that both axon models display exclusively Type 2 dynamics, independently of ion channel density. Nevertheless, both models have a region in the channel-density plane characterized by an N-shaped steady-state current-voltage relationship (a prerequisite for Type 1 dynamics and associated with this type of dynamics in the hippocampal model). In summary, our results suggest that the hippocampal soma and the two axon membranes represent two distinct kinds of membranes; membranes with a channel-density dependent switching between Type 1 and 2 dynamics, and membranes with a channel-density independent dynamics. The difference between the two membrane types suggests functional differences, compatible with a more flexible role of the soma membrane than that of the axon membrane.
Analysis of motor performance variability in tasks with redundancy affords insight about synergies underlying central nervous system (CNS) control. Preferential distribution of variability in ways that minimally affect task performance suggests sophisticated neural control. Unfortunately, in the analysis of variability the choice of coordinates used to represent multi-dimensional data may profoundly affect analysis, introducing an arbitrariness which compromises its conclusions. This paper assesses the influence of coordinates. Methods based on analyzing a covariance matrix are fundamentally dependent on an investigator's choices. Two reasons are identified: using anisotropy of a covariance matrix as evidence of preferential distribution of variability; and using orthogonality to quantify relevance of variability to task performance. Both are exquisitely sensitive to coordinates. Unless coordinates are known a priori, these methods do not support unambiguous inferences about CNS control. An alternative method uses a two-level approach where variability in task execution (expressed in one coordinate frame) is mapped by a function to its result (expressed in another coordinate frame). An analysis of variability in execution using this function to quantify performance at the level of results offers substantially less sensitivity to coordinates than analysis of a covariance matrix of execution variables. This is an initial step towards developing coordinate-invariant analysis methods for movement neuroscience.



On August 14th, 2009, for the first time, the FDA has approved a psychotropic medication for two indications simultaneously. Saphris (asenapine) is a multitarget atypical antipsychotic medication approved to treat adults with schizophrenia and bipolar I disorder.
The new guidelines put forth by the ACS for approved chemistry degrees provide departments with greater flexibility in designing their ACS majors. Under these guidelines, students receive foundational and in-depth chemistry training while allowing individual departments to use their creativity in developing a curriculum that best meets the needs of their students and plays to the strength of the department. The chemistry department at Concordia College has developed an ACS Neurochemistry track and shares how the program arose, some of the practical matters in developing it, and how it can be made to work well within a liberal arts college.
Synaptic plasticity and learning involve different mechanisms depending on the following: (1) the stage of plasticity and (2) the history of plasticity, or metaplasticity. However, little is known about how these two factors are related. We have addressed that question by examining mechanisms of synaptic plasticity during short-term and intermediate-term behavioral sensitization and dishabituation in a semi-intact preparation of the Aplysia siphon-withdrawal reflex. Dishabituation differs from sensitization in that it is preceded by habituation, and is thus a paradigm for metaplasticity. We find that whereas facilitation during short-term sensitization by one tail shock involves presynaptic covalent modifications by protein kinase A (PKA) and CamKII, facilitation during intermediate-term sensitization by four shocks involves both presynaptic (PKA, CaMKII) and postsynaptic (Ca(2+), CaMKII) covalent modifications, as well as both presynaptic and postsynaptic protein synthesis. The facilitation also involves presynaptic spike broadening 2.5 min after either one or four shocks, but not at later times. Dishabituation by four shocks differs from sensitization in several ways. First, it does not involve PKA or CaMKII, but rather involves presynaptic PKC. In addition, unlike sensitization with the same shock, dishabituation by four shocks does not involve protein synthesis or presynaptic spike broadening, and it also does not involve postsynaptic Ca(2+). These results demonstrate that not only the mechanisms but also the site of plasticity depend on both the stage of plasticity and metaplasticity during memory formation.
Many neurons typically fire action potentials in brief, high-frequency bursts with specific consequences for their synaptic output. Here we have examined short-term plasticity engaged during burst activation using electrophysiological recordings in acute rat hippocampal slices. We show that CA3-CA1 glutamate synapses exhibit a prominent depression of presynaptic release probability for approximately 1 s after such a burst. This postburst depression exhibits a distinct cooperativity threshold, is abolished by inhibiting astrocyte metabolism and astrocyte calcium signaling, and is not operational in the developing hippocampus. Our results suggest that astrocytes are actively involved in short-term synaptic depression, shaping synaptic activity during behaviorally relevant neural activity.
We have performed a three-generation, forward genetic screen to identify recessive mutations that affect the patterning of the peripheral nervous system. Using this assay, we identified Sema3A(K108N), a novel loss-of-function allele of Sema3A. Class 3 semaphorins, which include Sema3A, are structurally conserved secreted proteins that play critical roles in the development and function of the nervous system. Sema3A(K108N) mutant mice phenocopy Sema3A-null mice, and Sema3A(K108N) protein fails to repel or collapse DRG axons in vitro. K108 is conserved among semaphorins, yet the loss-of-function effects associated with K108N are not the result of impaired expression, secretion, or binding of Sema3A to its high-affinity receptor Neuropilin-1 (Npn-1). Using in silico modeling and mutagenesis of other semaphorin family members, we predict that Sema3A(K108N) interacts poorly with the Npn-1/PlexA holoreceptor and, thus, interferes with its ability to signal at the growth cone. Therefore, through the use of a forward-genetic screen we have identified a novel allele of Sema3A that provides structural insight into the mechanism of Sema3A/Npn-1/PlexinA signaling.
Fragile X syndrome (FXS) results from deficiency of fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP). FXS is the most common heritable form of mental retardation, and is associated with the occurrence of seizures. Factors responsible for initiating FXS-related hyperexcitability are poorly understood. Many protein-synthesis-dependent functions of group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (Gp1 mGluRs) are exaggerated in FXS. Gp1 mGluR activation can mobilize endocannabinoids (eCBs) in the hippocampus and thereby increase excitability, but whether FMRP affects eCBs is unknown. We studied Fmr1 knock-out (KO) mice lacking FMRP to test the hypothesis that eCB function is altered in FXS. Whole-cell evoked IPSCs (eIPSCs) and field potentials were recorded in the CA1 region of acute hippocampal slices. Three eCB-mediated responses were examined: depolarization-induced suppression of inhibition (DSI), mGluR-initiated eCB-dependent inhibitory short-term depression (eCB-iSTD), and eCB-dependent inhibitory long-term depression (eCB-iLTD). Low concentrations of a Gp1 mGluR agonist produced larger eCB-mediated responses in Fmr1 KO mice than in wild-type (WT) mice, without affecting DSI. Western blots revealed that levels of mGluR1, mGluR5, or cannabinoid receptor (CB1R) were unchanged in Fmr1 KO animals, suggesting that the coupling between mGluR activation and eCB mobilization was enhanced by FMRP deletion. The increased susceptibility of Fmr1 KO slices to eCB-iLTD was physiologically relevant, since long-term potentiation of EPSP-spike (E-S) coupling induced by the mGluR agonist was markedly larger in Fmr1 KO mice than in WT animals. Alterations in eCB signaling could contribute to the cognitive dysfunction associated with FXS.
Leak K(+) conductance generated by TASK1/3 channels is crucial for neuronal excitability. However, endogenous modulators activating TASK channels in neurons remained unknown. We previously reported that in the presumed cholinergic neurons of the basal forebrain (BF), activation of NO-cGMP-PKG (protein kinase G) pathway enhanced the TASK1-like leak K(+) current (I-K(leak)). As 8-Br-cGMP enhanced the I-K(leak) mainly at pH 7.3 as if changing the I-K(leak) from TASK1-like to TASK3-like current, such an enhancement of the I-K(leak) would result either from an enhancement of hidden TASK3 component or from an acidic shift in the pH sensitivity profile of TASK1 component. In view of the report that protonation of TASK channel decreases its open probability, the present study was designed to examine whether the activation of PKG increases the conductance of TASK1 channels by reducing their binding affinity for H(+), i.e., by increasing K(d) for protonation, or not. We here demonstrate that PKG activation and inhibition respectively upregulate and downregulate TASK1 channels heterologously expressed in PKG-loaded HEK293 cells at physiological pH, by causing shifts in the K(d) in the acidic and basic directions, respectively. Such PKG modulations of TASK1 channels were largely abolished by mutating pH sensor H98. In the BF neurons that were identified to express ChAT and TASK1 channels, similar dynamic modulations of TASK1-like pH sensitivity of I-K(leak) were caused by PKG. It is strongly suggested that PKG activation and inhibition dynamically modulate TASK1 currents at physiological pH by bidirectionally changing K(d) values for protonation of the extracellular pH sensors of TASK1 channels in cholinergic BF neurons.
Slit/Roundabout (Robo) signaling controls midline repulsive axon guidance. However, proteins that interact with Slit/Robo at the cell surface remain largely uncharacterized. Here, we report that the Drosophila transmembrane septate junction-specific protein Neurexin IV (Nrx IV) functions in midline repulsive axon guidance. Nrx IV is expressed in the neurons of the developing ventral nerve cord, and nrx IV mutants show crossing and circling of ipsilateral axons and fused commissures. Interestingly, the axon guidance defects observed in nrx IV mutants seem independent of its other binding partners, such as Contactin and Neuroglian and the midline glia protein Wrapper, which interacts in trans with Nrx IV. nrx IV mutants show diffuse Robo localization, and dose-dependent genetic interactions between nrx IV/robo and nrx IV/slit indicate that they function in a common pathway. In vivo biochemical studies reveal that Nrx IV associates with Robo, Slit, and Syndecan, and interactions between Robo and Slit, or Nrx IV and Slit, are affected in nrx IV and robo mutants, respectively. Coexpression of Nrx IV and Robo in mammalian cells confirms that these proteins retain the ability to interact in a heterologous system. Furthermore, we demonstrate that the extracellular region of Nrx IV is sufficient to rescue Robo localization and axon guidance phenotypes in nrx IV mutants. Together, our studies establish that Nrx IV is essential for proper Robo localization and identify Nrx IV as a novel interacting partner of the Slit/Robo signaling pathway.
Voltage-gated Na channels of cerebellar Purkinje neurons express an endogenous open-channel blocking protein. This blocker binds channels at positive potentials and unbinds at negative potentials, generating a resurgent Na current and permitting rapid firing. The macroscopic voltage dependence of resurgent current raises the question of whether the blocker directly senses membrane potential or whether voltage dependence is conferred indirectly. Because we previously found that inwardly permeating Na ions facilitate dissociation of the blocker, we measured voltage-clamped currents in different Na gradients to test the role of permeating ions in generating the voltage dependence of unblock. In reverse gradients, outward resurgent currents were tiny or absent, suggesting that unblock normally requires &quot;knockoff&quot; by Na. Inward resurgent currents at strongly negative potentials, however, were larger in reverse than in control gradients. Moreover, occupancy of the blocked state was prolonged both in reverse gradients and in control gradients with reduced Na concentrations, indicating that block is more stable when inward currents are small. Accordingly, reverse gradients shifted the voltage dependence of block, such that resurgent currents were evoked even after conditioning at negative potentials. Additionally, in control gradients, peak resurgent currents decreased linearly with driving force during the conditioning step, suggesting that the stability of block varies directly with inward Na current amplitude. Thus, the voltage dependence of blocker unbinding results almost entirely from repulsion by Na ions occupying the external pore. The lack of voltage sensitivity of the blocking protein suggests that the blocker's binding site lies outside the membrane field, in the permeation pathway.
The excitability of the leg postural circuit and its response to serotonin (5-HT) were studied in vitro in thoracic nervous system preparations of dominant and subordinate male crayfishes. We demonstrate that the level of spontaneous tonic activity of depressor and levator motoneurons (MNs) (which control downward and upward movements of the leg, respectively) and the amplitude of their resistance reflex are larger in dominants than in subordinates. Moreover, we show that serotonergic neuromodulation of the postural circuit also depends on social status. Depressor and levator MN tonic firing rates and resistance reflex amplitudes were significantly modified in the presence of 10 mum 5-HT in dominants but not in subordinates. Using intracellular recording from depressor MNs, we show that their input resistance was not significantly different in dominants and subordinates in control conditions. However, 5-HT produced a marked depolarization in dominants and a significantly weaker depolarization in subordinates. Moreover, in the presence of 5-HT, the amplitude of the resistance reflex and the input resistance of MNs increased in dominants and decreased in subordinates. The peak amplitude and the decay phase of unitary EPSPs triggered by sensory spikes were significantly increased by 5-HT in dominants but not in subordinates. These observations suggest that neural networks are more reactive in dominants than in subordinates, and this divergence is even reinforced by 5-HT modulation.
In the vertebrate visual system, ON cells respond to positive contrasts and OFF cells respond to negative contrasts, and thus both ON and OFF cells exhibit rectification. We investigated the retinal circuits by which the ON pathway rectifies the OFF pathway. White noise was projected onto an in vitro preparation of the mammalian retina and excitatory currents were recorded from retinal ganglion cells under whole-cell voltage clamp. Currents in OFF cells were more rectified than those in ON cells: thus, currents in ON cells were able to signal both positive and negative contrasts, but currents in OFF cells were virtually restricted to negative contrasts. Blocking signals in the ON pathway derectified currents in OFF ganglion cells, thus allowing them to be modulated by positive contrasts, indicating that the ON pathway normally rectifies currents in OFF ganglion cells. Such cross-rectification from ON to OFF pathways required intact glycinergic inhibition, indicating that a glycinergic amacrine cell, most likely the AII amacrine cell, allows the ON bipolar cell to hyperpolarize the OFF bipolar cell close to the threshold for transmitter release, thus rectifying excitatory currents in the OFF ganglion cell. Asymmetrical rectification of ON and OFF cells may be an adaptation to natural scenes that have more contrast levels below the mean than above. Thus, in order for ON and OFF pathways to encode an equal number of contrast levels, the ON cells must signal some negative contrasts.
Although the adult brain is considered to be fully developed and stable until senescence when its size steadily decreases, such stability seems at odds with continued human (intellectual) development throughout life. Moreover, although variation in human brain size is highly heritable, we do not know the extent to which genes contribute to individual differences in brain plasticity. In this longitudinal magnetic resonance imaging study in twins, we report considerable thinning of the frontal cortex and thickening of the medial temporal cortex with increasing age and find this change to be heritable and partly related to cognitive ability. Specifically, adults with higher intelligence show attenuated cortical thinning and more pronounced cortical thickening over time than do subjects with average or below average IQ. Genes influencing variability in both intelligence and brain plasticity partly drive these associations. Thus, not only does the brain continue to change well into adulthood, these changes are functionally relevant because they are related to intelligence.
Globoid cell leukodystrophy (GLD) (Krabbe disease) is an autosomal recessive, degenerative, lysosomal storage disease caused by a severe loss of galactocerebrosidase (GALC) enzymatic activity. Of the &gt;70 disease-causing mutations in the GALC gene, most are located outside of the catalytic domain of the enzyme. To determine how GALC mutations impair enzymatic activity, we investigated the impact of multiple disease-causing mutations on GALC processing, localization, and enzymatic activity. Studies in mammalian cells revealed dramatic decreases in GALC activity and a lack of appropriate protein processing into an N-terminal GALC fragment for each of the mutants examined. Consistent with this, we observed significantly less GALC localized to the lysosome and impairment in either the secretion or reuptake of mutant GALC. Notably, the D528N mutation was found to induce hyperglycosylation and protein misfolding. Reversal of these conditions resulted in an increase in proper processing and GALC activity, suggesting that glycosylation may play a critical role in the disease process in patients with this mutation. Recent studies have shown that enzyme inhibitors can sometimes &quot;chaperone&quot; misfolded polypeptides to their appropriate target organelle, bypassing the normal cellular quality control machinery and resulting in enhanced activity. To determine whether this may also work for GLD, we examined the effect of alpha-lobeline, an inhibitor of GALC, on D528N mutant cells. After treatment, GALC activity was significantly increased. This study suggests that mutations in GALC can cause GLD by impairing protein processing and/or folding and that pharmacological chaperones may be potential therapeutic agents for patients carrying certain mutations.
Communication between different brain regions, and between local circuits in the same brain region, is an important area of study for basic and translational neuroscience research. Selective and chronic manipulation of one of the components in a given neural pathway is frequently required for development and plasticity studies. We designed an in vitro platform that captures some of the complexity of mammalian brain pathways but permits easy experimental manipulation of their constituent parts. Organotypic cultures of brain slices were carried out in compartments interconnected by microchannels. We show that co-cultures from cortex and hippocampus formed functional connections by extending axons through the microchannels. We report synchronization of neural activity in co-cultures, and demonstrate selective pharmacological manipulation of activity in the constituent slices. Our platform enables chronic, spatially-restricted experimental manipulation of pre- and post-synaptic neurons in organotypic cultures, and will be useful to investigators seeking to understand development, plasticity, and pathologies of neural pathways.
Chronic adrenalectomy (ADX) causes a gradual and selective loss of granule cells in the dentate gyrus (DG) of the rat. Here, we administered replacement corticosterone to rats beginning 10 wk after ADX. We then tested them in three discrimination tasks based on object novelty, location, or object/context association. Only during testing of the object/context association did ADX rats demonstrate deficits. These findings add to a body of evidence that the hippocampus is necessary when contextual information is important. We also confirm that memory deficits after chronic adrenalectomy are not a result of loss of corticosterone per se.

Although the adeno-associated virus (AAV) vector is a promising tool for gene transfer into neurons, especially for therapeutic purposes, neurotropism in primate brains is not fully elucidated for specific AAV serotypes. Here, we injected AAV serotype 8 (AAV8) vector carrying the enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) gene under a ubiquitous promoter into the cerebral cortex, striatum and substantia nigra of common marmosets. Robust neuronal EGFP expression was observed at all injected sites. Cell typing with immunohistochemistry confirmed efficient AAV8-mediated gene transfer into the pyramidal neurons in the cortex, calbindin-positive medium spiny neurons in the striatum and dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra. The results indicate a preferential tropism of AAV8 for subsets of neurons, but not for glia, in monkey brains.
Multiple systems atrophy (MSA) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by oligodendrocytic accumulations of alpha-synuclein (alphasyn). Oxidative stress is a key mechanism proposed to underlie MSA pathology. To address the role of alphasyn modifications, over and above general oxidative modifications, this study examined the effects of 3-nitropropionic acid (3NP) administration, a technique used to model MSA, in knock-out mice lacking alphasyn (alphasynKO). Although susceptible to 3NP-induced oxidative stress, alphasynKO mice display reduced neuronal loss and dendritic pathology. The alphasynKO mice are resistant to 3NP-induced motor deficits and display attenuated loss of tyrosine hydroxylase and dopamine transporter striatal immunoreactivity. The results suggest that deficits in MSA are not due to general oxidative protein modification but in addition may be related to specific alphasyn modifications.
Using previously published data from the whisker barrel cortex of anesthetized rodents (Berwick et al 2008 J. Neurophysiol. 99 787-98) we investigated whether highly spatially localized stimulus-evoked cortical hemodynamics responses displayed a linear time-invariant (LTI) relationship with neural activity. Presentation of stimuli to individual whiskers of 2 s and 16 s durations produced hemodynamics and neural activity spatially localized to individual cortical columns. Two-dimensional optical imaging spectroscopy (2D-OIS) measured hemoglobin responses, while multi-laminar electrophysiology recorded neural activity. Hemoglobin responses to 2 s stimuli were deconvolved with underlying evoked neural activity to estimate impulse response functions which were then convolved with neural activity evoked by 16 s stimuli to generate predictions of hemodynamic responses. An LTI system more adequately described the temporal neuro-hemodynamics coupling relationship for these spatially localized sensory stimuli than in previous studies that activated the entire whisker cortex. An inability to predict the magnitude of an initial 'peak' in the total and oxy- hemoglobin responses was alleviated when excluding responses influenced by overlying arterial components. However, this did not improve estimation of the hemodynamic responses return to baseline post-stimulus cessation.





Visual working memory (VWM) is used to maintain sensory information for cognitive operations, and its deficits are associated with several neuropsychological disorders. VWM is based on sustained neuronal activity in a complex cortical network of frontal, parietal, occipital, and temporal areas. The neuronal mechanisms that coordinate this distributed processing to sustain coherent mental images and the mechanisms that set the behavioral capacity limit have remained unknown. We mapped the anatomical and dynamic structures of network synchrony supporting VWM by using a neuro informatics approach and combined magnetoencephalography and electroencephalography. Interareal phase synchrony was sustained and stable during the VWM retention period among frontoparietal and visual areas in alpha- (10-13 Hz), beta- (18-24 Hz), and gamma- (30-40 Hz) frequency bands. Furthermore, synchrony was strengthened with increasing memory load among the frontoparietal regions known to underlie executive and attentional functions during memory maintenance. On the other hand, the subjects' individual behavioral VWM capacity was predicted by synchrony in a network in which the intraparietal sulcus was the most central hub. These data suggest that interareal phase synchrony in the alpha-, beta-, and gamma-frequency bands among frontoparietal and visual regions could be a systems level mechanism for coordinating and regulating the maintenance of neuronal object representations in VWM.
Atypical Rho-guanine nucleotide exchange factors (Rho-GEFs) that contain Dock homology regions (DHR-1 and DHR-2) are expressed in a variety of tissues; however, their functions and mechanisms of action remain unclear. We identify key conserved amino acids in the DHR-2 domain that are critical for the catalytic activity of Dock-GEFs (Dock1-4). We further demonstrate that Dock-GEFs directly associate with WASP family verprolin-homologous (WAVE) proteins through the DHR-1 domain. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF)-TrkB signaling recruits the Dock3/WAVE1 complex to the plasma membrane, whereupon Dock3 activates Rac and dissociates from the WAVE complex in a phosphorylation-dependent manner. BDNF induces axonal sprouting through Dock-dependent Rac activation, and adult transgenic mice overexpressing Dock3 exhibit enhanced optic nerve regeneration after injury without affecting WAVE expression levels. Our results highlight a unique mechanism through which Dock-GEFs achieve spatial and temporal restriction of WAVE signaling, and identify Dock-GEF activity as a potential therapeutic target for axonal regeneration.
An important question in understanding language processing is whether there are distinct neural mechanisms for processing specific types of grammatical structure, such as syntax versus morphology, and, if so, what the basis of the specialization might be. However, this question is difficult to study: A given language typically conveys its grammatical information in one way (e.g., English marks &quot;who did what to whom&quot; using word order, and German uses inflectional morphology). American Sign Language permits either device, enabling a direct within-language comparison. During functional (f)MRI, native signers viewed sentences that used only word order and sentences that included inflectional morphology. The two sentence types activated an overlapping network of brain regions, but with differential patterns. Word order sentences activated left-lateralized areas involved in working memory and lexical access, including the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, the inferior frontal gyrus, the inferior parietal lobe, and the middle temporal gyrus. In contrast, inflectional morphology sentences activated areas involved in building and analyzing combinatorial structure, including bilateral inferior frontal and anterior temporal regions as well as the basal ganglia and medial temporal/limbic areas. These findings suggest that for a given linguistic function, neural recruitment may depend upon on the cognitive resources required to process specific types of linguistic cues.
We report a unique mutation in the D-amino acid oxidase gene (R199W DAO) associated with classical adult onset familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (FALS) in a three generational FALS kindred, after candidate gene screening in a 14.52 cM region on chromosome 12q22-23 linked to disease. Neuronal cell lines expressing R199W DAO showed decreased viability and increased ubiquitinated aggregates compared with cells expressing the wild-type protein. Similarly, lentiviral-mediated expression of R199W DAO in primary motor neuron cultures caused increased TUNEL labeling. This effect was also observed when motor neurons were cocultured on transduced astrocytes expressing R199W, indicating that the motor neuron cell death induced by this mutation is mediated by both cell autonomous and noncell autonomous processes. DAO controls the level of D-serine, which accumulates in the spinal cord in cases of sporadic ALS and in a mouse model of ALS, indicating that this abnormality may represent a fundamental component of ALS pathogenesis.
Axonal branching is thought to be regulated not only by genetically defined programs but also by neural activity in the developing nervous system. Here we investigated the role of pre- and postsynaptic activity in axon branching in the thalamocortical (TC) projection using organotypic coculture preparations of the thalamus and cortex. Individual TC axons were labeled with enhanced yellow fluorescent protein by transfection into thalamic neurons. To manipulate firing activity, a vector encoding an inward rectifying potassium channel (Kir2.1) was introduced into either thalamic or cortical cells. Firing activity was monitored with multielectrode dishes during culturing. We found that axon branching was markedly suppressed in Kir2.1-overexpressing thalamic cells, in which neural activity was silenced. Similar suppression of TC axon branching was also found when cortical cell activity was reduced by expressing Kir2.1. These results indicate that both pre- and postsynaptic activity is required for TC axon branching during development.
During decision making between sequential stimuli, the first stimulus must be held in memory and then compared with the second. Here, we show that in systems that encode the stimuli by their firing rate, neurons can use synaptic facilitation not only to remember the first stimulus during the delay but during the presentation of the second stimulus so that they respond to a combination of the first and second stimuli, as has been found for &quot;partial differential&quot; neurons recorded in the ventral premotor cortex during vibrotactile flutter frequency decision making. Moreover, we show that such partial differential neurons provide important input to a subsequent attractor decision-making network that can then compare this combination of the first and second stimuli with inputs from other neurons that respond only to the second stimulus. Thus, both synaptic facilitation and neuronal attractor dynamics can account for sequential decision making in such systems in the brain.


B6-Tg/Thy1APP23Sdz (APP23) mutant mice exhibit neurohistological hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease but show intact basal hippocampal neurotransmission and synaptic plasticity. Here, we examine whether spatial learning differently modifies the structural and electrophysiological properties of hippocampal synapses in APP23 and wild-type mice. While no genotypic difference was found in the pseudotrained mice, training elicited a stronger increase in spine density and a more rapid decay of long-term potentiation (LTP) in APP23 mutants. Thus, learning discloses mutation-related abnormalities regarding dendritic spine formation and LTP persistence, thereby suggesting that although unaltered in nave synapses, plasticity becomes defective at the time it comes into play.
During neural development, members of MTG family of transcriptional repressors are induced by proneural basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factors and in turn inhibit the activity of the bHLH proteins, forming a negative feedback loop that regulates the normal progression of neurogenesis. Three MTG genes, MTG8, MTG16 and MTGR1, are expressed in distinct patterns in the developing nervous system. Various bHLH proteins are also expressed in distinct patterns. We asked whether there is a functional relationship between specific MTG and bHLH proteins in developing chick spinal cord. First, we examined if each MTG gene is induced by specific bHLH proteins. Although expression of NEUROG2, ASCL1 and MTG genes overlapped, the boundaries of gene expression did not match. Ectopic expression analysis showed that MTGR1 and NEUROD4, which show similar expression patterns, are regulated differently by NEUROG2 and ASCL1. Thus, our results show that expression of MTG genes is not regulated by a single upstream bHLH protein, but represents an integration of the activity of multiple regulators. Next, we asked if each MTG protein inhibits specific bHLH proteins. Transcription assay showed that NEUROG2 and ASCL1 are inhibited by MTGR1 and MTG16, and less efficiently by MTG8. Deletion mapping of MTGR1 showed that MTGR1 binds NEUROG2 and ASCL1 using multiple interaction surfaces, and all conserved domains are required for its repressor activity. These results support the model that MTG proteins form a higher-order repressor complex and modulate transcriptional activity of bHLH proteins during neurogenesis.
Darwinian fitness reflects trade-offs between reproduction and survival. Mechanisms have evolved in small nontropical mammals and birds to maximize reproductive output during the summer when thermoregulatory demands are relatively low and food is abundant and to shunt energy to processes that presumably increase the odds of survival during the winter when thermoregulatory demands are high and food is scarce. In order to predict the onset of winter, many seasonally-breeding mammals use day length (photoperiod) information. Seasonal adjustments of immune responses may be one mechanism to enhance survival; short days enhance cell-mediated immune function in seasonally-breeding rodents. The goal of the present study was to determine whether delayed-type hypersensitivity in hamsters is constrained or if photoperiod merely establishes a baseline level of immune response that can then be fined tuned by other environmental conditions. To test this, we used environmental enrichment, a manipulation that enhances many aspects of immune function. Hamsters were assigned to either long or short photoperiods and further assigned into either singly-housed or environmentally-enriched cages. After 10 weeks of concurrent photoperiod and housing treatment, delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) was induced. Although short days enhanced DTH responses compared with long days, environmental enrichment enhanced swelling responses in both short days and long days, suggesting that even during potential energetic bottlenecks or during maximal reproductive investment, hamsters can modulate their investment in immune function.
Fluctuations in substrate preference and utilization across the circadian cycle may be influenced by the degree of physical activity and nutritional status. In the present study, we assessed these relationships in control mice and in mice from a line selectively bred for high voluntary wheel-running behavior, either when feeding a carbohydrate-rich/low-fat (LF) or a high-fat (HF) diet. Housed without wheels, selected mice, and in particular the females, exhibited higher cage activity than their non-selected controls during the dark phase and at the onset of the light phase, irrespective of diet. This was associated with increases in energy expenditure in both sexes of the selection line. In selected males, carbohydrate oxidation appeared to be increased compared to controls. In contrast, selected females had profound increases in fat oxidation above the levels in control females to cover the increased energy expenditure during the dark phase. This is remarkable in light of the finding that the selected mice, and in particular the females showed higher preference for the LF diet relative to controls. It is likely that hormonal and/or metabolic signals increase carbohydrate preference in the selected females, which may serve optimal maintenance of cellular metabolism in the presence of augmented fat oxidation.

Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a neuro-inflammatory and neurodegenerative disease that results in damage to myelin sheaths and axons in the central nervous system and which preferentially affects young adults. We performed a proteomics-based biomarker discovery study in which cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) from MS and control individuals was analyzed (n=112). Ten candidate biomarkers were selected for evaluation by quantitative immunoassay using an independent cohort of MS and control subjects (n=209). In relapsing-remitting MS (RRMS) patients there were significant increases in the CSF levels of alpha-1 antichymotrypsin (A1AC), alpha-1 macroglobulin (A2MG) and fibulin 1 as compared to control subjects. In secondary progressive MS (SPMS) four additional proteins (contactin 1, fetuin A, vitamin D binding protein and angiotensinogen (ANGT)) were increased as compared to control subjects. In particular, ANGT was increased 3-fold in SPMS, indicating a potential as biomarker of disease progression in MS. In PPMS, A1AC and A2MG exhibit significantly higher CSF levels than controls, with a trend of increase for ANGT. Classification models based on the biomarker panel could identify 70% of the RRMS and 80% of the SPMS patients correctly. Further evaluation was conducted in a pilot study of CSF from RRMS patients (n=36), before and after treatment with natalizumab.
Adenosine A(2A) receptors (A(2A)Rs) and dopamine D(2) receptors (D(2)Rs) form constitutive heteromers in living cells and exhibit a strong functional antagonistic interaction. Recent findings give neurochemical evidence that extended cocaine self-administration in the rat give rise to an up-regulation of functional A(2A)Rs in the nucleus accumbens that return to baseline expression levels during cocaine withdrawal. In the present work, the acute in vitro effects of a concentration of cocaine known to fully block the dopamine (DA) transporter without exerting any toxic actions were investigated on A(2A)R and D(2L)R formed heteromers in transiently co-transfected HEK-293T cells. In vitro treatment of cocaine was found to produce changes in D(2)R homodimers and in A(2A)R-D(2)R heterodimers detected through bioluminescent energy transfer (BRET). Cocaine was found to produce a time- and concentration-dependent reduction in the BRET(max) between A(2A)R-D(2L)R heterodimers and D(2L)R homodimers, but not A(2A)R homodimers, indicating its effect on D(2)R. Cocaine was evaluated with regard to D(2)R binding using a human D(2L)R stable expressing CHO cell line and was found to produce an increase in the affinity of hD(2L)R for DA. At the level of G protein-coupling, cocaine produced a small, but significant increase in DA-stimulated binding of GTPgammaS. However, cocaine failed to modulate D(2)R agonist-induced inhibition of cAMP in stable hD(2L)R CHO cells or the gating of GIRK channels in oocytes. Taken together, these results indicate a direct and specific effect of a moderate concentration of cocaine on the DA D(2L)R, that results in enhanced agonist recognition, G protein-coupling and an altered conformational state of D(2)R homodimers and A(2A)R-D(2)R heterodimers.

Connexin43 (Cx43) is widely expressed in embryonic brain, and its expression becomes restricted mainly to astrocytes as the central nervous system matures. Recent studies have indicated that Cx43 plays important, nonchannel, roles during central nervous system development by affecting neuronal cell migration. Here, we evaluated the effects of Cx43 on neuronal differentiation. For that we used an in vitro model of neural cell development (neurospheres) to evaluate, through immunocytochemistry, electrophysiology, and molecular biology, the degree of neuronal maturation from neurospheres derived from wild-type (WT) and Cx43-null mice. Our results indicate that Cx43 is a negative modulator of neuronal differentiation. The percent neurospheres containing differentiated neurons and the number of cells displaying inward currents were significantly higher in Cx43-null than in WT littermate neurospheres. Knockdown of Cx43 with small interfering RNA increased the number of WT neurospheres generating differentiated neurons. Blockade of gap junctional communication with carbenoxolone did not induce neuronal differentiation in WT neurospheres. Transfection of Cx43-null neurospheres with Cx43 mutants revealed that Cx43 carboxyl terminus prevents neuronal maturation. In agreement with these in vitro data, in situ analysis of embryonic day 16 brains revealed increased beta-III-tubulin expression in germinal zones of Cx43-null compared with that of WT littermates. These results indicate that Cx43, and specifically its carboxyl terminus, is crucial for signaling mechanisms preventing premature neuronal differentiation during embryonic brain development.
Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) was discovered more than a century ago, and its known roles have extended from within the immune system to include a neuro-inflammatory domain in the nervous system. Neuropathic pain is a recognized type of pathological pain where nociceptive responses persist beyond the resolution of damage to the nerve or its surrounding tissue. Very often, neuropathic pain is disproportionately enhanced in intensity (hyperalgesia) or altered in modality (hyperpathia or allodynia) in relation to the stimuli. At time of this writing, there is as yet no common consensus about the etiology of neuropathic pain - possible mechanisms can be categorized into peripheral sensitization and central sensitization of the nervous system in response to the nociceptive stimuli. Animal models of neuropathic pain based on various types of nerve injuries (peripheral versus spinal nerve, ligation versus chronic constrictive injury) have persistently implicated a pivotal role for TNF-alpha at both peripheral and central levels of sensitization. Despite a lack of success in clinical trials of anti-TNF-alpha therapy in alleviating the sciatic type of neuropathic pain, the intricate link of TNF-alpha with other neuro-inflammatory signaling systems (e.g., chemokines and p38 MAPK) has indeed inspired a systems approach perspective for future drug development in treating neuropathic pain.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) is currently the standard method of evaluating brain function in the field of Cognitive Neuroscience, in part because fMRI data acquisition and analysis techniques are readily available. Because fMRI has excellent spatial resolution but poor temporal resolution, this method can only be used to identify the spatial location of brain activity associated with a given cognitive process (and reveals virtually nothing about the time course of brain activity). By contrast, event-related potential (ERP) recording, a method that is used much less frequently than fMRI, has excellent temporal resolution and thus can track rapid temporal modulations in neural activity. Unfortunately, ERPs are under utilized in Cognitive Neuroscience because data acquisition techniques are not readily available and low density ERP recording has poor spatial resolution. In an effort to foster the increased use of ERPs in Cognitive Neuroscience, the present article details key techniques involved in high density ERP data acquisition. Critically, high density ERPs offer the promise of excellent temporal resolution and good spatial resolution (or excellent spatial resolution if coupled with fMRI), which is necessary to capture the spatial-temporal dynamics of human brain function.
The efficacy and safety of the kampo medicine Yokukansan (YKS, TJ-54) in the treatment of behavioral and psychological symptoms of dementia (BPSD) were investigated in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) in an open-label study. This study included 26 patients who had been diagnosed as having AD and were not treated with donepezil hydrochloride. These patients were administered YKS (7.5g/day) for four weeks to investigate the changes in neuropsychological test results and care burden in the period from the start to completion of the study treatment. The Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI) was used for evaluation of BPSD, the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) for evaluation of cognitive functions, the Zarit burden interview for evaluation of the caregiver's burden, Disability Assessment of Dementia (DAD) for evaluation of activities of daily living (ADL) and Self-Rating Depression Scale (SDS) for evaluation of the caregiver's depression. No significant change was seen in MMSE and DAD after four weeks of treatment, but the mean NPI total score decreased significantly. Furthermore, among the NPI subscales, a statistically significant decrease in score was not seen, however, a clinically significant decrease was seen in terms of hallucinations, agitation, anxiety, irritability or abnormal behavior. No significant changes were seen in caregiver's burden after four weeks of treatment. No serious adverse reactions to YKS were observed. The results of this study suggested that YKS may be an effective and well-tolerated drug in the treatment of BPSD in AD patients.

Multiple motor abnormalities have been identified in some children with Attention Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD). These include persistence of overflow movements, impaired timing of motor responses and deficits in fine motor abilities. Motor overflow is defined as co-movement of body parts not specifically needed to efficiently complete a task. The presence of age-inappropriate overflow may reflect immaturity of the cortical systems involved in automatic motor inhibition. Theories on overflow movements consistently implicate impairments in white matter (WM) tracts, including the corpus callosum. WM connections might be altered selectively in brain networks and thus influence motor behaviours. We reviewed the scientific contributions on overflow movements and WM abnormalities in ADHD. They suggest that WM abnormalities in motor/premotor circuits, which are important for motor response inhibition, might be responsible for overflow movements in patients with ADHD.



A series of substituted N-[3-(3-methoxyphenyl)propyl] amides were synthesized and their binding affinities towards human melatonin MT(1) and MT(2) receptors were evaluated. It was discovered that a benzyloxyl substituent incorporated at C6 position of the 3-methoxyphenyl ring dramatically enhanced the MT(2) binding affinity and at the same time decreased MT(1) binding affinity.
Recently, un update of the important European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer study 26981 was published without correcting deficiencies that already were known and publicized in 2008. In the current commentary, the author specifies those issues to help prevent incorrect conclusions and discusses reasons why the journal that published the update dismissed a letter clarifying those shortcomings.
The p73 locus encodes two types of transcription factors: full length pro-apoptotic isoforms (TAp73), and N-terminally truncated anti-apoptotic proteins (DeltaNp73). To study the function of DeltaNp73 in vivo, we generated mutant mice in which DeltaNp73 is inactivated, but TAp73 expression is intact. In addition, we knocked in the locus the Cre recombinase, and the enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP). Using this allele, we refined the expression of DeltaNp73 during brain development and emphasized the importance of the thalamic eminence, a transient source that contributes neurons to the telencephalon. We showed that DeltaNp73 inactivation increases apoptosis in neurons. We also investigated the role of DeltaNp73 in carcinogenesis by inducing tumors with methylcholanthrene in mutant and control mice, and found that mutant females, but not males, have decreased propensity to tumor development. Both effects on neuronal apoptosis and tumor development were milder than predicted from in vitro studies.
The bHLH transcription factor Neurog1 (Ngn1, Neurod3, neurogenin 1) is involved in neuronal differentiation and cell-type specification in distinct regions of the developing nervous system. Here, transgenic mouse models were developed that use a Bacterial Artificial Chromosome (BAC) containing 208kb flanking the Neurog1 gene to efficiently drive expression of GFP and Cre in all Neurog1 domains. Two characteristics of Neurog1 gene regulation were uncovered. First, a 4kb region previously shown to be sufficient for driving expression of a reporter gene to a subset of the Neurog1 pattern in the developing midbrain, hindbrain, and spinal cord is required uniformly for high levels of expression in all Neurog1 domains, even those not originally identified as being regulated by this region. Second, a 0.8 kb enhancer was identified that is sufficient to drive Neurog1-like expression specifically in the ventral neural tube. Furthermore, Neurog1 progenitor cells in the ventral neural tube are largely fated to interneuron lineages rather than to motoneurons. These studies provide new tools for directing tissue specific expression in the developing neural tube, define Neurog1 lineages in the spinal cord, and further define the complex genomic structure required for obtaining the correct levels and spatial restriction of the neuronal differentiation gene Neurog1.
Motor neurons that innervate the dorsal longitudinal (flight) muscles, DLMs, make multiple points of contact along the length of fibers. The stereotypy of the innervation lies in the number of contact points (CPs) made by each motor neuron and is established as a consequence of pruning that occurs during metamorphosis. Coincident with the onset of pruning is the arrival of glial processes that eventually ensheath persistent branches. To test a possible role for glia during pruning, the development of adult-specific glial ensheathment was disrupted using a targeted expression of dominant negative shibire. Such a manipulation resulted in fewer contact points at the DLM fibers. The development of innervation was examined during metamorphosis, specifically to test if the reduction was a consequence of increased pruning. We quantified the number of branches displaying discontinuities in their membrane, an indicator of the level of pruning. Disrupting the formation of glial ensheathment resulted in a two-fold increase in the discontinuities, indicating that pruning is enhanced. Thus glial-neuronal interactions, specifically during pruning are important for the patterning of adult innervation. Our studies also suggest that FasII plays a role in mediating this communication. At the end of the pruning phase, FasII localizes to glia, which envelops each of the stabilized contact points. When glial FasII levels are increased using the Gal4/UAS system of targeted expression, pruning of secondary branches is enhanced. Our results indicate that glia regulate pruning of secondary branches by influencing the balance between stabilization and pruning. This was confirmed by an observed rescue of the innervation phenotype of FasII hypomorphs by over expressing FasII in glia.
Nitric oxide (*NO) is a ubiquitous signaling molecule that participates in the neuromolecular phenomena associated with memory formation. In the hippocampus, neuronal *NO production is coupled to the activation of the NMDA-type of glutamate receptor. Although *NO-mediated signaling has been associated with soluble guanylate cyclase activation, cytochrome oxidase is also a target for this gaseous free radical, for which *NO competes with O(2). Here we show, for the first time in a model preserving tissue cytoarchitecture (rat hippocampal slices) and at a physiological O(2) concentration, that endogenous NMDA-evoked *NO production inhibits tissue O(2) consumption for submicromolar concentrations. The simultaneous real-time recordings reveal a direct correlation between the profiles of *NO and O(2) in the CA1 subregion of the hippocampal slice. These results, obtained in a system close to in vivo models, strongly support the current paradigm for O(2) and *NO interplay in the regulation of cellular respiration.
Olfactory ensheathing cells (OECs) are the glial cells that derive from the olfactory placode, envelop olfactory axons in the course of migration from the olfactory epithelium to the olfactory bulb and reside primarily in the olfactory nerve layer. OECs transplantation as a promising experimental therapy for axonal injuries has been intensively studied; however, little is known about their roles in olfactory bulb development. In this study, we examined the effects of OECs on the migration of neural progenitors in rostral migratory stream (RMS). Initially, the neurosphere migration assay showed that OEC-conditioned medium promoted progenitors to migrate from RMS neurospheres in a concentration dependent manner. Moreover, co-culturing OECs nearby the RMS explants led to asymmetric migration of explants in different developing stages. However, OECs could influence the migration in a distance not further than 1.5 mm. Finally, slice assay that mimic the circumstance in vivo revealed that OECs had a chemoattractive activity on RMS neural progenitors. Together, these results demonstrate that OECs attract neural progenitors in RMS through the release of diffusible factors and it is likely that OECs mainly influence radial migration in the olfactory bulb but not tangential migration of the RMS invivo during development. This suggests a previously unknown function for OECs in olfactory development and a novel mechanism underlying the targeting of RMS cells.
Transplantation of central nervous tissue has been proposed as a therapeutic intervention for age-related neurodegenerative diseases and stroke. However, survival of embryonic neuronal cells is hampered by detrimental factors in the aged host brain such as circulating inflammatory cytokines and oxidative stress. We have previously found that supplementation with 2% blueberry in the diet increases graft growth and neuronal survival in intraocular hippocampal grafts to aged hosts. In the present study we explored possible biochemical mechanisms for this increased survival, and we here report decreased microglial activation and astrogliosis in intraocular hippocampal grafts to middle-aged hosts fed a 2% blueberry diet. Markers for astrocytes and for activated microglial cells were both decreased long-term after grafting to blueberry-treated hosts compared with age-matched rats on a control diet. Similar findings were obtained in the host brain, with a reduction in OX-6 immunoreactive microglial cells in the hippocampus of those recipients treated with blueberry. In addition, immunoreactivity for the pro-inflammatory cytokine IL-6 was found to be significantly attenuated in intraocular grafts by the 2% blueberry diet. These studies demonstrate direct effects of blueberry upon microglial activation both during isolated conditions and in the aged host brain and suggest that this nutraceutical can attenuate age-induced inflammation.
Recent studies have demonstrated that insulin can have profound affects on the survival of neurons within the retina. The purpose of this study was to determine how insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF1) influences retinal cells; in particular, the glial cells. We identify a novel type of glial cell in the avian retina and provide evidence that these cells can respond to acute damage and IGF1. In normal retinas, we found a distinct cell-type, scattered across the ganglion cell and inner plexiform layers that express Sox2, Sox9, Nkx2.2, vimentin, and transitin, the avian homologue of mammalian nestin. These glial cells have a unique immunohistochemical profile, morphology, and distribution that are distinct among other known types of retinal glia, including microglia, oligodendrocytes, astrocytes, and Muller glia. We termed these cells nonastrocytic inner retinal glia-like (NIRG) cells. We found that the NIRG cells may express the IGF1 receptor and respond to IGF1 by proliferating, migrating distally into the retina, and upregulating transitin. In addition, IGF1 stimulated microglia to become reactive and upregulate lysosomal membrane glycoprotein and CD45. With microglia and NIRG cells stimulated by IGF1 there were elevated levels of cell death and numerous focal detachments across the retina in response to excitotoxic damage. Cell death was prominent within the areas of detachment coinciding with a stark loss of Mller glia and accumulation of NIRG cells. We conclude that NIRG cells are a novel type of retinal glia that is sensitive to IGF1 and whose activity may impact the survival of neurons and Mller glia.
This study employs an intra-national and cross-national, prospective and longitudinal design to examine age, gender, region, and country variation in group mean-level continuity and individual-differences stability of emotional availability in child-mother dyads. Altogether, 220 Argentine, Italian, and U.S. American metropolitan and rural residence mothers and their daughters and sons were observed at home when children were 5 and 20 months of age. Similar patterns of continuity and discontinuity of emotional availability from 5 to 20 months were observed across regions and countries, but not between genders. Stability of emotional availability from 5 to 20 months was moderate and similar across genders, regions, and countries. Universal and gender-specific developmental processes in child-mother emotional availability as revealed in intra- and cross-national study are discussed.
Vesicles formed by the COPI complex function in retrograde transport from the Golgi to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Phosphatidylinositol transfer protein beta (PITPbeta), an essential protein that possesses phosphatidylinositol (PtdIns) and phosphatidylcholine (PtdCho) lipid transfer activity is known to localise to the Golgi and ER but its role in these membrane systems is not clear. To examine the function of PITPbeta at the Golgi-ER interface, RNA interference (RNAi) was used to knockdown PITPbeta protein expression in HeLa cells. Depletion of PITPbeta leads to a decrease in PtdIns(4)P levels, compaction of the Golgi complex and protection from brefeldin-A-mediated dispersal to the ER. Using specific transport assays, we show that anterograde traffic is unaffected but that KDEL-receptor-dependent retrograde traffic is inhibited. This phenotype can be rescued by expression of wild-type PITPbeta but not by mutants defective in docking, PtdIns transfer and PtdCho transfer. These data demonstrate that the PtdIns and PtdCho exchange activity of PITPbeta is essential for COPI-mediated retrograde transport from the Golgi to the ER.
Astrocytes and their precursors respond to spinal cord injury (SCI) by proliferating, migrating, and altering phenotype. This contributes to glial scar formation at the lesion border and gliosis in spared gray and white matter. The present study was undertaken to evaluate astrocyte changes over time and determine when and where interventions might be targeted to alter the astrocyte response. Bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) was administered to mice 3 days after SCI, and cells expressing BrdU and the astrocyte marker, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), were counted at 3, 7, and 49 days post-injury (DPI). BrdU-labeled cells accumulated at the lesion border by 7 DPI and approximately half of these expressed GFAP. In spared white matter, the total number of BrdU+ cells decreased, while the percentage of BrdU+ cells expressing GFAP increased at 49 DPI. Phenotypic changes were examined using the progenitor marker nestin, the radial glial marker, brain lipid binding protein (BLBP), and GFAP. Nestin was upregulated by 3 DPI and declined between 7 and 49 DPI in all regions, and GFAP increased and remained above nave levels at all timepoints. BLBP increased early and remained high along the lesion border and spared white matter, but was expressed transiently by cells lining the central canal and in a unique population of small cells found within the lesion and in gray matter rostral and caudal to the border. The results demonstrate that the astrocyte response to SCI is regionally heterogeneous, and suggests astrocyte populations that could be targeted by interventions.
The auditory midbrain is a site of convergence of multiple auditory channels from the brainstem. In birds, two separate ascending channels have been identified, through which time and intensity information is sent to the nucleus mesencephalicus lateralis, pars dorsalis (MLd), the homologue of the central nucleus of the mammalian inferior colliculus. Using in vivo anterograde and retrograde tracing techniques, the current study provides two lines of anatomical evidence supporting the presence of a third ascending channel to the chick MLd. First, three non-overlapping zones of the MLd receive inputs from three distinct cell groups in the caudodorsal brainstem. The projections from the nucleus angularis (NA) and nucleus laminaris (NL) are predominantly contralateral and may correspond to the time and intensity channels. A rostromedial portion of the MLd receives bilateral projections mainly from the regio intermedius, an interposed region of cells lying at a caudal level between the NL and NA, as well as scattered neurons embedded in the 8th nerve tract, and probably a very ventral region of the NA. Second, the bilateral zones of the MLd on two sides of the brain are reciprocally connected and do not interact with other zones of the MLd via commissural connections. In contrast, the NL-recipient zone projects contralaterally upon the NA-recipient zone. The structural separation of the third pathway from the NA and NL projections suggests a third information-processing channel, in parallel with the time and intensity channels. Neurons in the third channel appear to process very low frequency information including infrasound, probably utilizing different mechanisms than that underlying higher frequency processing.
The amygdaloid complex (AC), a key component of the limbic system, is a brain region critical for the detection and interpretation of emotionally salient information. Therefore, changes in its structure and function are likely to provide correlates of mood and emotion disorders, diseases that afflict a large portion of the human population. Previous gross comparisons of the AC in control and diseased individuals have, however, mainly failed to discover these expected correlations with diseases. We have characterized AC nuclei in different nonhuman primate species to establish a baseline for more refined comparisons between the normal and the diseased amygdala. AC nuclei volume and neuron number in 19 subdivisions are reported from 13 Old and New World primate brains, spanning five primate species, and compared with corresponding data from humans. Analysis of the four largest AC nuclei revealed that volume and neuron number of one component, the central nucleus, has a negative allometric relationship with total amygdala volume and neuron number, which is in contrast with the isometric relationship found in the other AC nuclei (for both neuron number and volume). Neuron density decreases across all four nuclei according to a single power law with an exponent of about minus one-half. Because we have included quantitative comparisons with great apes and humans, our conclusions apply to human brains, and our scaling laws can potentially be used to study the anatomical correlates of the amygdala in disorders involving pathological emotion processing.
The activation characteristics of synaptic and extrasynaptic GABA(A) receptors are important for shaping the profile of phasic and tonic inhibition in the central nervous system, which will critically impact on the activity of neuronal networks. Here, we study in isolation the activity of three agonists, GABA, muscimol and 4,5,6,7-tetrahydoisoxazolo[5,4-c]pyridin-3(2H)-one (THIP), to further understand the activation profiles of alpha 1 beta 3 gamma 2, alpha 4 beta 3 gamma 2 and alpha 4 beta 3 delta receptors that typify synaptic- and extrasynaptic-type receptors expressed in the hippocampus and thalamus. The agonists display an order of potency that is invariant between the three receptors, which is reliant mostly on the agonist dissociation constant. At delta subunit-containing extrasynaptic-type GABA(A) receptors, both THIP and muscimol additionally exhibited, to different degrees, superagonist behaviour. By comparing whole-cell and single channel currents induced by the agonists, we provide a molecular explanation for their different activation profiles. For THIP at high concentrations, the unusual superagonist behaviour on alpha 4 beta 3 delta receptors is a consequence of its ability to increase the duration of longer channel openings and their frequency, resulting in longer burst durations. By contrast, for muscimol, moderate superagonist behaviour was caused by reduced desensitisation of the extrasynaptic-type receptors. The ability to specifically increase the efficacy of receptor activation, by selected exogenous agonists over that obtained with the natural transmitter, may prove to be of therapeutic benefit under circumstances when synaptic inhibition is compromised or dysfunctional.
The study of rhythmic electrical activity in slice preparations has generated important insights into neural network function. While the synaptic mechanisms involved in the generation of in vitro network oscillations have been studied widely, little is known about the modulatory influence exerted on rhythmic activity in neuronal networks by neuropeptides and biogenic amines. Gamma oscillations play an important role in cognitive processes and are altered or disrupted in disorders such as Alzheimer's disease (AD) and schizophrenia. Given the importance of gamma oscillations for learning, memory and cognition processes as well as the recent interest in histamine H(3) receptors in the development of pro-cognitive drugs to treat disorders such as AD and schizophrenia, it is relevant to study the impact of histaminergic mechanisms on network gamma oscillations. Here we show for the first time a modulation of gamma oscillation by histaminergic mechanisms. Selective activation of the H(3) receptor by R-alpha-methylhistamine significantly reduces the power of kainate-induced gamma oscillations, but not carbachol-induced gamma oscillations, in the rat hippocampal slice preparation without affecting oscillation frequency. This effect is neither caused by a decrease in excitatory or inhibitory postsynaptic currents, nor a decrease in cellular excitability. Instead, we find that the decrease in oscillation power following H(3) receptor activation results from a desynchronization of pyramidal neuron action potential firing with regard to the local field potential oscillation cycle. Our data provide a possible mechanism of action for histamine in regulating gamma oscillations in the hippocampal network.
S. J. Thorpe, D. Fize, and C. Marlot (1996) showed how rapidly observers can detect animals in images of natural scenes, but it is still unclear which image features support this rapid detection. A. B. Torralba and A. Oliva (2003) suggested that a simple image statistic based on the power spectrum allows the absence or presence of objects in natural scenes to be predicted. We tested whether human observers make use of power spectral differences between image categories when detecting animals in natural scenes. In Experiments 1 and 2 we found performance to be essentially independent of the power spectrum. Computational analysis revealed that the ease of classification correlates with the proposed spectral cue without being caused by it. This result is consistent with the hypothesis that in commercial stock photo databases a majority of animal images are pre-segmented from the background by the photographers and this pre-segmentation causes the power spectral differences between image categories and may, furthermore, help rapid animal detection. Data from a third experiment are consistent with this hypothesis. Together, our results make it exceedingly unlikely that human observers make use of power spectral differences between animal- and no-animal images during rapid animal detection. In addition, our results point to potential confounds in the commercially available &quot;natural image&quot; databases whose statistics may be less natural than commonly presumed.
Approximately 10% of patients diagnosed clinically with early Parkinson's disease (PD) have normal dopaminergic functional imaging (Scans Without Evidence of Dopaminergic Deficit [SWEDDs]). An important subgroup of SWEDDs are those with asymmetric rest tremor resembling parkinsonian tremor. Clinical and pathophysiological features which could help to distinguish SWEDDs from PD have not been explored. We therefore studied clinical details including non-motor symptoms in 25 tremulous SWEDDs patients in comparison to 25 tremor-dominant PD patients. Blinded video rating was used to compare examination findings. Electrophysiological tremor parameters and also response to a cortical plasticity protocol using paired associative stimulation (PAS) was studied in 9 patients with SWEDDs, 9 with tremor-dominant PD (with abnormal dopamine transporter single photon emission computed tomography findings), 8 with segmental dystonia, and 8 with essential tremor (ET). Despite clinical overlap, lack of true bradykinesia, presence of dystonia, and head tremor favored a diagnosis of SWEDDs, whereas re-emergent tremor, true fatiguing or decrement, good response to dopaminergic drugs, and presence of non-motor symptoms favored PD. A single tremor parameter could not differentiate between groups, but the combination of re-emergent tremor and highest tremor amplitude at rest was characteristic of PD tremor. SWEDDs and segmental dystonia patients exhibited an abnormal exaggerated response to the PAS protocol, in contrast to a subnormal response in PD and a normal response in ET. We conclude that despite clinical overlap, there are features that can help to distinguish between PD and SWEDDs which may be useful in clinical practice. The underlying pathophysiology of SWEDDs differs from PD but has similarities with primary dystonia.
Primary cilia are evolutionarily conserved cellular organelles that organize diverse signalling pathways. Defects in the formation or function of primary cilia are associated with a spectrum of human diseases and developmental abnormalities. Genetic screens in model organisms have discovered core machineries of cilium assembly and maintenance. However, regulatory molecules that coordinate the biogenesis of primary cilia with other cellular processes, including cytoskeletal organization, vesicle trafficking and cell-cell adhesion, remain to be identified. Here we report the results of a functional genomic screen using RNA interference (RNAi) to identify human genes involved in ciliogenesis control. The screen identified 36 positive and 13 negative ciliogenesis modulators, which include molecules involved in actin dynamics and vesicle trafficking. Further investigation demonstrated that blocking actin assembly facilitates ciliogenesis by stabilizing the pericentrosomal preciliary compartment (PPC), a previously uncharacterized compact vesiculotubular structure storing transmembrane proteins destined for cilia during the early phase of ciliogenesis. The PPC was labelled by recycling endosome markers. Moreover, knockdown of modulators that are involved in the endocytic recycling pathway affected the formation of the PPC as well as ciliogenesis. Our results uncover a critical regulatory step that couples actin dynamics and endocytic recycling with ciliogenesis, and also provides potential target molecules for future study.
Pharmacological stimulation of the serotonin 4 (5-HT(4)) receptor has shown promise for treatment of Alzheimer's disease and major depression. A new selective radioligand, [(11)C]SB207145, for positron emission tomography (PET) was used to quantify brain 5-HT(4) receptors in sixteen healthy subjects (20-45 years, 8 males) using the simplified reference tissue model. We tested within our population the effect of age and other demographic factors on the endpoint. In seven subjects, we tested the vulnerability of radioligand binding to a pharmacolological challenge with citalopram, which is expected to increase competition from endogenous serotonin. Given radiotracer administration at a range of specific activities, we were able to use the individual BP(ND) measurements for population-based estimation of the saturation binding parameters; B(max) ranged from 0.3 to 1.6 nM. B(max) was in accordance with post-mortem brain studies (Spearman's r=0.83, p=0.04), and the regional binding potentials, BP(ND), were on average 2.6 in striatum, 0.42 in prefrontal cortex, and 0.91 in hippocampus. We found no effect of sex but a decreased binding with age (p=0.046). A power analysis showed that, given the low inter-and intrasubject variation, use of the present method will enable detection of a 15% difference in striatum with only 7-13 subjects in a 2-sample test and with only 4-5 subjects in a paired test. The citalopram challenge did not discernibly alter [(11)C]SB207145 binding. In conclusion, the 5-HT(4) receptor binding in human brain can be reliably assessed with [(11)C]SB207145, which is encouraging for future PET studies of drug occupancy or patients with neuropsychiatric disorders.

Cerebral tissues from archaeological human remains are extremely rare findings. Hereby, we report a multidisciplinary study of a unique case of a left cerebral hemisphere from a 13th century AD child, found in north-western France. The cerebral tissue-reduced by ca. 80% of its original weight-had been fixed in formalin since its discovery. However, it fully retained its gross anatomical characteristics such as sulci, and gyri; the frontal, temporal and occipital lobe as well as grey and white matter could be readily recognised. Neuronal remains near the hippocampus area and Nissl bodies from the motor cortex area were observed (Nissl, Klver-Barrera staining). Also, computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (T1, proton density, ultra short echo time sequences) were feasible. They produced high quality morpho-diagnostic images. Both histological and radiological examinations could not confirm the pathologist's previously suggested diagnosis of cerebral haemorrhage as the cause of death. Reproducible cloned mtDNA sequences were recovered from the skeleton but not from the brain itself. This was most likely due to the combined effect of formaldehyde driven DNA-DNA and/or DNA-protein cross-linking, plus hydrolytic fragmentation of the DNA. The chemical profile of the brain tissue, from gas-chromatography/mass-spectroscopy analysis, suggested adipocerous formation as the main aetiology of the mummification process. The hereby presented child brain is a unique paleo-case of well-preserved neuronal cellular tissue, which is a conditio sine qua non for any subsequent study addressing wider perspectives in neuroscience research, such as the evolution of brain morphology and pathology.
Evidence suggests that theta oscillations recruit distributed cortical representations to improve associative encoding under semantically congruent conditions. Here we show that positive effects of semantic context on encoding and retrieval of associations are mediated by changes in the coupling pattern between EEG theta sources. During successful encoding of semantically congruent face-location associations, the right superior parietal lobe showed enhanced theta phase synchronization with other regions within the lateral posterior parietal lobe (PPL) and left medial temporal lobe (MTL). However, functional coordination involving the inferior parietal lobe was higher in the incongruent condition. These results suggest a differential engagement of top-down and bottom-up mechanisms during encoding of semantically congruent and incongruent episodic associations, respectively. Although retrieval processes operated on a similar neural network, the main difference with the study phase was the larger amount of functional links shown by the lateral prefrontal cortex with regions of the MTL and PPL. All together, these results suggest that theta oscillations mediate, at least partially, the positive effect of semantic congruence on associative memory by (i) optimizing top-down attentional mechanisms through enhanced theta phase synchronization between dorsal regions of the PPL and MTL and (ii) by adjusting the control of automatic attention to sensory and contextual information reactivated in the MTL through functional connections with the inferior parietal lobe during both encoding and retrieval processes.
Diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) studies in adolescents with autism spectrum disorders (ASD) indicate aberrant neurodevelopment of frontal white matter (WM), potentially underlying abnormal social cognition and communication in ASD. Here, we further use tract-based spatial statistics (TBSS) to examine the developmental change of WM skeleton (i.e., the most compact whole-brain WM) during adolescence in ASD. This whole-brain DTI used TBSS measures fractional anisotropy (FA) and longitudinal and radial diffusivities in fifty adolescents, 25 ASD and 25 controls. Results show that adolescents with ASD versus controls had significantly reduced FA in the right posterior limb of internal capsule (increased radial diffusivity distally and reduced longitudinal diffusivity centrally). Adolescents with ASD versus controls (covarying for age and IQ) had significantly greater FA in the frontal lobe (reduced radial diffusivity), right cingulate gyrus (reduced radial diffusivity), bilateral insula (reduced radial diffusivity and increased longitudinal diffusivity), right superior temporal gyrus (reduced radial diffusivity), and bilateral middle cerebellar peduncle (reduced radial diffusivity). Notably, a significant interaction with age by group was found in the right paracentral lobule and bilateral superior frontal gyrus as indicated by an age-related FA gain in the controls whilst an age-related FA loss in the ASD. To our knowledge, this is the first study to use TBSS to examine WM in individuals with ASD. Our findings indicate that the frontal lobe exhibits abnormal WM microstructure as well as an aberrant neurodevelopment during adolescence in ASD, which support the frontal disconnectivity theory of autism.
Over the last decade, many neuroimaging studies have assessed the human brain networks underlying action observation and imitation using a variety of tasks and paradigms. Nevertheless, questions concerning which areas consistently contribute to these networks irrespective of the particular experimental design and how such processing may be lateralized remain unresolved. The current study aimed at identifying cortical areas consistently involved in action observation and imitation by combining activation likelihood estimation (ALE) meta-analysis with probabilistic cytoarchitectonic maps. Meta-analysis of 139 functional magnetic resonance and positron emission tomography experiments revealed a bilateral network for both action observation and imitation. Additional subanalyses for different effectors within each network revealed highly comparable activation patterns to the overall analyses on observation and imitation, respectively, indicating an independence of these findings from potential confounds. Conjunction analysis of action observation and imitation meta-analyses revealed a bilateral network within frontal premotor, parietal, and temporo-occipital cortex. The most consistently rostral inferior parietal area was PFt, providing evidence for a possible homology of this region to macaque area PF. The observation and imitation networks differed particularly with respect to the involvement of Broca's area: whereas both networks involved a caudo-dorsal part of BA 44, activation during observation was most consistent in a more rostro-dorsal location, i.e., dorsal BA 45, while activation during imitation was most consistent in a more ventro-caudal aspect, i.e., caudal BA 44. The present meta-analysis thus summarizes and amends previous descriptions of the human brain networks related to action observation and imitation.
Non-human-primate fMRI is becoming increasingly recognised as the missing link between the widely applied methods of human imaging and intracortical animal electrophysiology. A crucial requirement for the optimal application of this method is the precise knowledge of the time course of the Blood Oxygenation Level Dependent (BOLD) signal. We mapped the BOLD signal time course in the inferior colliculus (IC), medial geniculate body (MGB) and in tonotopically defined fields in the auditory cortex of two macaques. The results show little differences in the BOLD-signal time courses within the auditory pathway. However, we observed systematic differences in the magnitude of the change in the BOLD signal with significantly stronger signal changes in field A1 of the auditory cortex compared to field R. The measured time course of the signal was in good agreement with similar studies in human auditory cortex but showed considerable differences to data reported from macaque visual cortex. Consistent with the studies in humans we measured a peak in the BOLD response around 4 s after the onset of 2-s broadband noise stimuli while previous studies recorded from the primary visual cortex of the same species reported the earliest peaks to short visual stimuli several seconds later. The comparison of our results with previous studies does not support differences in haemodynamic responses within the auditory system between human and non-human primates. Furthermore, the data will aid optimal design of future auditory fMRI studies in non-human primates.
While neuroimaging studies implicate medial rostral prefrontal cortex (mrPFC) in self-referential processing, simulation accounts of social cognition suggest that this region also supports thinking about other people. This study tested the prediction that mrPFC might be involved in appraising the personality traits of another person to the degree that this person is perceived as similar to oneself. We also examined whether recruiting common processes for thinking about oneself and others might impact on subsequent memory for those judgments. Functional MRI was used while two factors were crossed: (i) the requirement to engage in personality trait or episodic source memory judgments and (ii) the reference for these judgments (i.e., oneself or a friend). The results link haemodynamic changes in mrPFC to both personality judgments about oneself and subsequent episodic memory retrieval of these judgments. The degree to which BOLD signal in this region was also associated with thinking about others correlated with perceived similarity in both tasks, thus corroborating simulation accounts. Moreover, participants who perceived themselves as having similar traits to their friends tended to be poorer at remembering whether they had made trait judgments in reference to themselves or their friend. This behavioral effect was reflected in the BOLD signal in mrPFC: there was a positive correlation between signal change for self versus friend judgments and subsequent memory for the reference of such judgments. The results suggest that investigations of mrPFC activity in the context of self/other judgments should take into account this psychological similarity effect.
Pain is a multidimensional experience. Human pain perception can be modulated by subjective emotional responses. We examined this association within the context of a neuroimaging study, using functional MRI to examine neural responses to electrical pain-inducing stimuli in 15 healthy subjects (6 females; age range=20-30 years). Pain-inducing stimuli were presented during different emotional contexts, which were induced via the continuous presentation (5 s) of sad, happy, or neutral pictures of faces. We found that subjective pain ratings were higher in the sad emotional context than in the happy and neutral contexts, and that pain-related activation in the ACC was more pronounced in the sad context relative to the happy and neutral contexts. Psychophysiological interaction (PPI) and dynamic causal modeling (DCM) analyses demonstrated amygdala to ACC connections during the experience of pain in the sad context. These findings serve to highlight the neural mechanisms that may be relevant to understanding the broader relationship between somatic complaints and negative emotion.
Humans discount the value of future rewards over time. Here we show using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and neural coupling analyses that episodic future thinking reduces the rate of delay discounting through a modulation of neural decision-making and episodic future thinking networks. In addition to a standard control condition, real subject-specific episodic event cues were presented during a delay discounting task. Spontaneous episodic imagery during cue processing predicted how much subjects changed their preferences toward more future-minded choice behavior. Neural valuation signals in the anterior cingulate cortex and functional coupling of this region with hippocampus and amygdala predicted the degree to which future thinking modulated individual preference functions. A second experiment replicated the behavioral effects and ruled out alternative explanations such as date-based processing and temporal focus. The present data reveal a mechanism through which neural decision-making and prospection networks can interact to generate future-minded choice behavior.
The polarized nature of neurons and the size and density of synapses complicates the manipulation and visualization of cell biological processes that control synaptic function. Here we developed a microfluidic local perfusion (microLP) chamber to access and manipulate synaptic regions and presynaptic and postsynaptic compartments in vitro. This chamber directs the formation of synapses in &gt;100 parallel rows connecting separate neuron populations. A perfusion channel transects the parallel rows, allowing access with high spatial and temporal resolution to synaptic regions. We used this chamber to investigate synapse-to-nucleus signaling. Using the calcium indicator dye Fluo-4 NW, we measured changes in calcium at dendrites and somata, following local perfusion of glutamate. Exploiting the high temporal resolution of the chamber, we exposed synapses to &quot;spaced&quot; or &quot;massed&quot; application of glutamate and then examined levels of pCREB in somata. Lastly, we applied the metabotropic receptor agonist DHPG to dendrites and observed increases in Arc transcription and Arc transcript localization.
Traumatic injury to the brain is a problem as old as humanity, but advances in cognitive neuroscience and a long-term view of the dynamic nature of the brain across the lifespan may change how the disorder is understood and treated.

One of the striking findings of comparative developmental genetics was that expression patterns of core transcription factors are extraordinarily conserved in bilaterians. However, it remains unclear whether cis-regulatory elements of their target genes also exhibit common signatures associated with conserved embryonic fields. To address this question, we focused on genes that are active in the anterior neuroectoderm and non-neural ectoderm of the ascidian Ciona intestinalis. Following the dissection of a prototypic anterior placodal enhancer, we searched all genomic conserved non-coding elements for duplicated motifs around genes showing anterior neuroectodermal expression. Strikingly, we identified an over-represented pentamer motif corresponding to the binding site of the homeodomain protein OTX, which plays a pivotal role in the anterior development of all bilaterian species. Using an in vivo reporter gene assay, we observed that 10 of 23 candidate cis-regulatory elements containing duplicated OTX motifs are active in the anterior neuroectoderm, thus showing that this cis-regulatory signature is predictive of neuroectodermal enhancers. These results show that a common cis-regulatory signature corresponding to K50-Paired homeodomain transcription factors is found in non-coding sequences flanking anterior neuroectodermal genes in chordate embryos. Thus, field-specific selector genes impose architectural constraints in the form of combinations of short tags on their target enhancers. This could account for the strong evolutionary conservation of the regulatory elements controlling field-specific selector genes responsible for body plan formation.
We used tensor-based morphometry (TBM) to: 1) map gray matter (GM) volume changes associated with motor learning in young healthy individuals; 2) evaluate if GM changes persist three months after cessation of motor training; and 3) assess whether the use of different schemes of motor training during the learning phase could lead to volume modifications of specific GM structures. From 31 healthy subjects, motor functional assessment and brain 3D T1-weighted sequence were obtained: before motor training (time 0), at the end of training (two weeks) (time 2), and three months later (time 3). Fifteen subjects (group A) were trained with goal-directed motor sequences, and 16 (group B) with non purposeful motor actions of the right hand. At time 1 vs. time 0, the whole sample of subjects had GM volume increase in regions of the temporo-occipital lobes, inferior parietal lobule (IPL) and middle frontal gyrus, while at time 2 vs. time 1, an increased GM volume in the middle temporal gyrus was seen. At time 1 vs. time 0, compared to group B, group A had a GM volume increase of the hippocampi, while the opposite comparison showed greater GM volume increase in the IPL and insula in group B vs. group A. Motor learning results in structural GM changes of different brain areas which are part of specific neuronal networks and tend to persist after training is stopped. The scheme applied during the learning phase influences the pattern of such structural changes.

Statin therapy in patients with cardiovascular disease is associated with reduced incidence of stroke. The Stroke Prevention by Aggressive Reduction of Cholesterol Levels (SPARCL) trial showed daily treatment with 80 mg of atorvastatin in patients with a recent stroke or transient ischemic attack (TIA) reduced the incidence of fatal or nonfatal stroke by 16%. Several post hoc analyses of different subgroups followed the SPARCL study. They have not revealed any significant differences when patients were sorted by age, sex, presence of carotid disease or type of stroke, with the exception of intracranial hemorrhage as the entry event. Lower low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels in addition to possible neuroprotective mechanisms due to atorvastatin treatment correlate with improved risk reduction. Although not predefined subgroups and subject to an insufficient power, these post hoc studies have generated new clinical questions. However, clinicians should avoid denying therapy based on such subgroup analysis. At this point, the best evidence powerfully demonstrates stroke and TIA patients should be prescribed high dose statin therapy for secondary stroke prevention.
Fast glutamatergic and GABAergic transmission in the central nucleus of the inferior colliculus (ICC), a major auditory midbrain structure, is mediated respectively by alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4 propionic acid (AMPA) and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)(A) receptors. In this study, we used whole-cell patch clamp recordings in brain slices to investigate the effects of activation of metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) on synaptic responses mediated by AMPA and GABA(A) receptors in ICC neurons of young rats. Excitatory and inhibitory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs and IPSCs) mediated respectively by AMPA and GABA(A) receptors were elicited by stimulation of the lateral lemniscus, the major afferent pathway to the ICC. The agonists for groups I and II mGluRs, (+/-)-1-aminocyclopentane-trans-1,3-dicarboxylic acid (ACPD), and for group III mGluRs, L-2-amino-3-hydroxypropanoic acid 3-phosphate (L-SOP), did not affect intrinsic membrane properties of the ICC neurons. The agonist for group II mGluRs, (1R,4R,5S,6R)-4-amino-2-oxabicyclo[3.1.0] hexane-4,6-dicarboxylic acid (LY379268), significantly reduced the AMPA receptor-mediated EPSCs and GABA(A) receptor-mediated IPSCs. The effects were reversed by the group II mGluR antagonist, (2S)-2-amino-2-[(1S,2S)-2-carboxycycloprop-1-yl]-3-(xanth-9-yl) propanoic acid (LY341495). The agonists for groups I and III, (RS)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG) and L-SOP, respectively, did not affect AMPA or GABA(A) receptor-mediated responses. The reduction of the synaptic responses by LY379268 was accompanied by a substantial increase in a ratio of the second to the first AMPA receptor-mediated EPSCs and GABA(A) receptor-mediated IPSCs to paired-pulse stimulation. The results suggest that group II mGluRs regulate both fast glutamatergic and GABAergic synaptic transmission in the ICC, probably through a presynaptic mechanism due to reduction of transmitter release.
We aimed to separate stimulus and response conflict in a manual color-word Stroop task by combining electro-myography (EMG) and event-related brain potentials (ERPs). EMG served as a measure of response conflict by detecting incorrect response hand activation in correctly responded trials. Response conflict was enhanced in both the incongruent and congruent conditions relative to neutral conditions. This suggests that the Stroop conflict (incongruent vs. congruent condition) could be explained by stimulus conflict in our study and that response conflict was not restricted to the incongruent condition of the Stroop task. Incorrect response activity was detected in a neutral condition using words but not in a neutral condition with non-words. This suggests that the mere presence of task-irrelevant stimuli semantically related to task-relevant stimuli can prime incorrect response activity. The above factors are important to consider in studies which do not have any explicit measure of response conflict. We have detected a robust marker of Stroop conflict, the N450 ERP effect, which has been related to ACC activity. The N450 was probably affected by stimulus conflict in our study and it may be a marker of general conflict processing.
Cognitive deficits such as impaired decision-making can be a consequence of persistent pain. Normal functions of the intact amygdala and prefrontal cortex are required for emotion-based decision-making that relies on the ability to assess risk, attribute value, and identify advantageous strategies. We tested the hypothesis that pain-related cognitive deficits result from amygdala-driven impairment of medial prefrontal cortical (mPFC) function. To do this, we used electrophysiological single-unit recordings in vivo, patch clamp in brain slices, and various behavioral assays to show that increased neuronal activity in the amygdala in an animal model of arthritis pain was accompanied by decreased mPFC activation and impaired decision-making. Furthermore, pharmacologic inhibition (with a corticotropin-releasing factor 1 receptor antagonist) of pain-related hyperactivity in the basolateral amygdala (BLA), but not central amygdala (CeA), reversed deactivation of mPFC pyramidal cells and improved decision-making deficits. Pain-related cortical deactivation resulted from a shift of balance between inhibitory and excitatory synaptic transmission. Direct excitatory transmission to mPFC pyramidal cells did not change in the pain model, whereas polysynaptic inhibitory transmission increased. GABAergic transmission was reduced by non-NMDA receptor antagonists, suggesting that synaptic inhibition was glutamate driven. The results are consistent with a model of BLA-driven feedforward inhibition of mPFC neurons. In contrast to the differential effects of BLA versus CeA hyperactivity on cortical-cognitive functions, both amygdala nuclei modulate emotional-affective pain behavior. Thus, this study shows that the amygdala contributes not only to emotional-affective but also cognitive effects of pain. The novel amygdalo-cortical pain mechanism has important implications for our understanding of amygdala functions and amygdalo-cortical interactions.
Flexible sensorimotor planning is the basis for goal-directed behavior. We investigated the integration of visuospatial information with context-specific transformation rules during reach planning. We were especially interested in the relative timing of motor-goal decisions in monkey dorsal premotor cortex (PMd) and parietal reach region (PRR). We used a rule-based mapping task with different cueing conditions to compare task-dependent motor-goal latencies. The task allowed us a separation of cue-related from motor-related activity, and a separation of activity related to motor planning from activity related to motor initiation or execution. The results show that selectivity for the visuospatial goal of a pending movement occurred earlier in PMd than PRR whenever the task required spatial remapping. Such remapping was needed if the spatial representation of a cue or of a default motor plan had to be transformed into a spatially incongruent representation of the motor goal. In contrast, we did not find frontoparietal latency differences if the spatial representation of the cue or the default plan was spatially congruent with the motor goal. The fact that frontoparietal latency differences occurred only in conditions with spatial remapping was independent of the subjects' partial a priori knowledge about the pending goal. Importantly, frontoparietal latency differences existed for motor-goal representations during movement planning, without immediate motor execution. We interpret our findings as being in support of the hypothesis that latency differences reflect a dynamic reorganization of network activity in PRR, and suggest that the reorganization is contingent on frontoparietal projections from PMd.
alpha6* nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) are highly and selectively expressed by mesostriatal dopamine (DA) neurons. These neurons are thought to mediate several behavioral effects of nicotine, including locomotion, habit learning, and reinforcement. Yet the functional role of alpha6* nAChRs in midbrain DA neurons is mostly unknown. The aim of this study was to determine the composition and in vivo functional role of alpha6* nAChR in mesolimbic DA neurons of male rats. Immunoprecipitation and immunopurification techniques coupled with cell-specific lesions showed that the composition of alpha6* nAChR in the mesostriatal system is heterogeneous, with (non-alpha4)alpha6beta2* being predominant in the mesolimbic pathway and alpha4alpha6beta2* in the nigrostriatal pathway. We verified whether alpha6* receptors mediate the systemic effects of nicotine on the mesolimbic DA pathway by perfusing the selective antagonists alpha-conotoxin MII (CntxMII) (alpha3/alpha6beta2* selective) or alpha-conotoxin PIA (CntxPIA) (alpha6beta2* selective) into ventral tegmental area (VTA). The intra-VTA perfusion of CntxMII or CntxPIA markedly decreased systemic nicotine-elicited DA release in the nucleus accumbens and habituated locomotion; the intra-VTA perfusion of CntxMII also decreased the rate of nicotine infusion in the maintenance phase of nicotine, but not of food, self-administration. Overall, the results of these experiments show that the alpha6beta2* nAChRs expressed in the VTA are necessary for the effects of systemic nicotine on DA neuron activity and DA-dependent behaviors such as locomotion and reinforcement, and suggest that alpha6beta2*-selective compounds capable of crossing the blood-brain barrier may affect the addictive properties of nicotine and therefore be useful in the treatment of tobacco dependence.
The retrosplenial cortex (RSP), a brain region frequently linked to processes of spatial navigation, contains neurons that discharge as a function of a rat's head direction (HD). HD cells have been identified throughout the limbic system including the anterodorsal thalamus (ADN) and postsubiculum (PoS), both of which are reciprocally connected to the RSP. The functional relationship between HD cells in the RSP and those found in other limbic regions is presently unknown, but given the intimate connectivity between the RSP and regions such as the ADN and PoS, and the reported loss of spatial orientation in rodents and humans with RSP damage, it is likely that the RSP plays an important role in processing the limbic HD signal. To test this hypothesis, we produced neurotoxic or electrolytic lesions of the RSP and recorded HD cells in the ADN of female Long-Evans rats. HD cells remained present in the ADN after RSP lesions, but the stability of their preferred firing directions was significantly reduced even in the presence of a salient visual landmark. Subsequent tests revealed that lesions of the RSP moderately impaired landmark control over the cells' preferred firing directions, but spared the cells directional stability when animals were required to update their orientation using self-movement cues. Together, these results suggest that the RSP plays a prominent role in processing landmark information for accurate HD cell orientation and may explain the poor directional sense in humans that follows damage to the RSP.
Neurons that reenter a cell cycle after maturation are at increased risk for death, yet the mechanisms by which a normal neuron suppresses the cycle remain mostly unknown. Our laboratory has shown that cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5) is a potent cell cycle suppressor, and we report here on the molecular basis of this activity. Cell cycle suppression by Cdk5 requires its binding to the p35 activator protein. The related p39 and p25 proteins cannot serve as substitutes. Unexpectedly, Cdk5 enzymatic activity is not required to perform this function. Rather, the link to cell cycle regulation is made through the formation of a previously unknown complex consisting of the p35-Cdk5 dimer and E2F1. Formation of this complex excludes the E2F1 cofactor, DP1, thus inhibiting E2F1 binding to the promoters of various cell cycle genes. This anti-cell cycle activity is most likely a neuroprotective function of Cdk5.
Human motor behavior is constantly adapted through the process of error-based learning. When the motor system encounters an error, its estimate about the body and environment will change, and the next movement will be immediately modified to counteract the underlying perturbation. Here, we show that a second mechanism, use-dependent learning, simultaneously changes movements to become more similar to the last movement. In three experiments, participants made reaching movements toward a horizontally elongated target, such that errors in the initial movement direction did not have to be corrected. Along this task-redundant dimension, we were able to induce use-dependent learning by passively guiding movements in a direction angled by 8 degrees from the previous direction. In a second study, we show that error-based and use-dependent learning can change motor behavior simultaneously in opposing directions by physically constraining the direction of active movements. After removal of the constraint, participants briefly exhibit an error-based aftereffect against the direction of the constraint, followed by a longer-lasting use-dependent aftereffect in the direction of the constraint. In the third experiment, we show that these two learning mechanisms together determine the solution the motor system adopts when learning a motor task.

The aim of this study was to test a possible role of A5 neurons in the expression of the pressor and tachycardic responses to conditioned fear and restraint, two forms of psychological stress. Previous Fos studies have shown that the C1 adrenergic neurons and spinally projecting neurons in the vasopressor region of the rostral ventrolateral medulla are not activated by these two stressors, suggesting that these cardiovascular changes may be mediated by other premotor sympathetic (presympathetic) cell groups. The same studies also revealed that the A5 noradrenergic group was one of the main presympathetic cell groups to be activated in response to these two stressors. Thus, we hypothesized that the A5 group could mediate these cardiovascular responses. Conditioned fear and restraint were tested in rats implanted with radiotelemetric probes before and after retrograde lesion with the selective toxin anti-dopamine-beta-hydroxylase-saporin bilaterally injected in the spinal cord at T2-T3. Six animals were selected that had the most extensive loss of spinally projecting catecholaminergic neurons: A5 (81%-95%) and rostral C1 (59%-86%, which would include most C1 bulbospinal neurons). However, despite this major loss of noradrenergic and adrenergic presympathetic neurons, the magnitude of the cardiovascular response to conditioned fear and restraint was the same before and after the lesion. Associated behavioural changes were not affected either. The results indicate that A5 presympathetic neurons are not essential for the expression of the tachycardic and pressor responses to conditioned fear and restraint. They also confirm that C1 bulbospinal neurons are not involved in these responses. The presympathetic neurons driving the tachycardic and pressor responses to conditioned fear and restraint must be elsewhere.
The dystrophin defective mdx mouse, acknowledged model of Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy (DMD), bears outstanding alterations of the cortical architecture, that could be responsible for the cognitive impairment often accompanying this pathological condition. Using a retrograde tract tracing technique to label neurons in Golgi-like fashion, we investigated the fine anatomical organization of associative cortico-cortical projections in mdx mice. While the absolute number of associative pyramidal neurons was significantly higher in mdx than in control animals, the ratio between the number of supra- and infragranular cortico-cortical cells was substantially unmodified. Basal dendrites of layer 2/3 pyramidal neurons displayed longer terminal branches in mdx compared to controls. Finally, the density of dendritic spines was significantly lower in mdx animals. The anomalies of associative cortico-cortical projections provide potential groundwork on the neurobiological bases of cognitive involvement in DMD and value the role of cortical microcircuitry alterations as possible source of interference with peripheral motor impairment.
Neuropathic pain conditions for which treatment is sought are characterized by complex behavioural disturbances, as well as &quot;pain.&quot; Recent studies using chronic constriction injury of the sciatic nerve have shown that rats develop three distinct patterns of disability characterized by changes in social-interactions and sleep-wake cycle behaviours post-injury: (i) Persistent Disability, (ii) Transient Disability and (iii) No Disability. These patterns occur despite all rats showing identical levels of allodynia and hyperalgesia (i.e., pain). In rats, social-interactions and sleep-wake cycle behaviours are regulated in part, by neural networks, which converge on the periaqueductal grey (PAG). We sought therefore to identify neural adaptations in the PAG, 6 days following chronic constriction injury (CCI), the time at which rats in which disabilities persist are first distinguished from those without disabilities (i.e., No Disability and Transient Disability). GeneChips, RT-PCR and Western blotting revealed the select up-regulation in translation and transcription of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and Vimentin in rats with Persistent Disability. Significant increases in GFAP immunoreactivity were localized histologically to the lateral and caudal ventrolateral columns of the PAG. This anatomically specific pattern of increased GFAP suggests activation of astrocytes by select neural pathways, which likely include afferents of both spinal and nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS) origin. The PAG columns in which astrocytes are activated play significant roles in modulating both social-interactions and the sleep-wake cycle. It is possible therefore that the persistent disabilities seen in a subgroup of CCI rats are in part a functional consequence of this specific pattern of astrocyte activation.
The hypothalamo-neurohypophysial system (HNS) consisting of arginine vasopressin (AVP) and oxytocin (OXT) magnocellular neurons shows the structural plasticity including the rearrangement of synapses, dendrites, and neurovascular contacts during chronic physiological stimulation. In this study, we examined the remodeling of chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CSPGs), main extracellular matrix (ECM), in the HNS after salt loading known as a chronic stimulation to cause the structural plasticity. In the supraoptic nucleus (SON), confocal microscopic observation revealed that the immunoreactivity of 6B4 proteoglycans (PG) was observed mainly at AVP-positive magnocellular neurons but that of neurocan was seen chiefly at OXT-positive magnocellular neurons. The immunoreactivity of phosphacan and aggrecan was seen at both AVP- and OXT-positive magnocellular neurons. Electron microscopic observation further showed that the immunoreactivity of phosphacan and neurocan was observed at astrocytic processes to surround somata, dendrites, and terminals, but not synaptic junctions. In the neurohypophysis (NH), the immunoreactivity of phosphacan, 6B4 PGs, and neurocan was observed at AVP-positive magnocellular terminals, but the reactivity of Wisteria floribunda agglutinin lectin was seen at OXT-positive ones. The immunoreactivity of versican was found at microvessel and that of aggrecan was not detected in the NH. Quantitative morphometrical analysis showed that the chronic physiological stimulation by 7-day salt loading decreased the level of 6B4 PGs in the SON and the level of phosphacan, 6B4 PGs, and neurocan in the NH. These results suggest that the extracellular microenvironment of CSPGs is different between AVP and OXT magnocellular neurons and activity-dependent remodeling of CSPGs could be involved in the structural plasticity of the HNS.
Anhedonia, as a failure to experience rewarding stimuli, is a key characteristic of many psychiatric disorders including depression and schizophrenia. Investigations on the neurobiological correlates of reward and hedonia/anhedonia have been a growing subject of research demonstrating several neuromodulators to mediate different aspects of reward processing. Whereas the majority of research on reward mainly focused on the dopamine and opioid systems, a serotonergic mechanism has been neglected. However, recent promising results strengthen the pivotal role of serotonin in reward processing. Evidence includes electrophysical and pharmacological as well as genetic and imaging studies. Primate research using single-unit recording of neurons within the dorsal raphe nucleus argues for a serotonergic mediation of reward value, whereas studies using intracranial self-stimulation point to an important contribution of serotonin in modulating motivational aspects of rewarding brain stimulation. Pharmacological studies using agonists and antagonists of serotonergic receptor subtypes and approaches investigating an increase or decrease of the extracellular level of serotonin offer strong evidence for a serotonergic mediation, ranging from aversion to pleasure. This review provides an argument for serotonin as a fundamental mediator of emotional, motivational and cognitive aspects of reward representation, which makes it possibly as important as dopamine for reward processing.
In the rat cortex, the two non-primary auditory areas, posterodorsal and ventral auditory areas, may constitute the two streams of auditory processing in their distinct projections to the posterior parietal and insular cortices. The posterior parietal cortex is considered crucial for auditory spatial processing and directed attention, while possible auditory function of the insular cortex is largely unclear. In this study, we electrophysiologically delineated an auditory area in the caudal part of the granular insular cortex (insular auditory area, IA) and examined efferent connections of IA with anterograde tracer biocytin to deduce the functional significance of IA. IA projected to the rostral agranular insular cortex, a component of the lateral prefrontal cortex. IA also projected to the adjacent dysgranular insular cortex and the caudal agranular insular cortex and sent feedback projections to cortical layer I of the primary and secondary somatosensory areas. Corticofugal projections terminated in auditory, somatosensory and visceral thalamic nuclei, and the bottom of the thalamic reticular nucleus that could overlap the visceral sector. The ventral part of the caudate putamen, the external cortex of the inferior colliculus and the central amygdaloid nucleus were also the main targets. IA exhibited neural response to transcutaneous electrical stimulation of the forepaw in addition to acoustic stimulation (noise bursts and pure tones). The results suggest that IA subserves diverse functions associated with somatosensory, nociceptive and visceral processing that may underlie sound-driven emotional and autonomic responses. IA, being potentially involved in such extensive cross-modal sensory interactions, could also be an important anatomical node of auditory processing linked to higher neural processing in the prefrontal cortex.
Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) is an untreatable, neurodegenerative disease of motor neurons characterized by progressive muscle atrophy, limb paralysis, dysarthria, dysphagia, dyspnae and finally death. Large motor neurons in ventral horns of spinal cord and motor nuclei in brainstem, large pyramidal neurons of motor cortex and/or large myelinated axons of corticospinal tracts are affected. In recent synchrotron Fourier Transform Infrared microspectroscopy (sFTIR) studies of ALS CNS autopsy tissue, we discovered a small deposit of crystalline creatine, which has a crucial role in energy metabolism. We have now examined unfixed, snap frozen, post-autopsy tissue sections of motor cortex, brain stem, spinal cord, hippocampus and substantia nigra from six ALS and three non-degenerated cases with FTIR and micro-X-ray fluorescence (XRF). Heterogeneous pigmented deposits were discovered in spinal cord, brain stem and motor neuron cortex of two ALS cases. The FTIR signature of creatine has been identified in these deposits and in numerous large, non-pigmented deposits in four of the ALS cases. Comparable pigmentation and creatine deposits were not found in controls or in ALS hippocampus and substantia nigra. Ca, K, Fe, Cu and Zn, as determined by XRF, were not correlated with the pigmented deposits; however, there was a higher incidence of hot spots (Ca, Zn, Fe and Cu) in the ALS cases. The identity of the pigmented deposits remains unknown, although the absence of Fe argues against both erythrocytes and neuromelanin. We conclude that elevated creatine deposits may be indicators of dysfunctional oxidative processes in some ALS cases.
It has been reported that N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR)-triggered neurotoxicity is related to excessive Ca(2+) loading and an increase in nitric oxide (NO) concentration. However, the molecular mechanisms that underlie these events are not completely understood. NMDARs and neuronal NO synthase each binds to the scaffolding protein postsynaptic density (PSD)-93 through its PDZ domains. In this study, we determined whether PSD-93 plays a critical role in NMDAR/Ca(2+)/NO-mediated neurotoxicity. We found that the targeted disruption of the PSD-93 gene attenuated the neurotoxicity triggered by NMDAR activation, but not by non-NMDAR activation, in cultured mouse cortical neurons. PSD-93 deficiency reduced the amount of NMDAR subunits NR2A and NR2B in synaptosomal fractions from the cortical neurons and significantly prevented NMDA-stimulated increases in cyclic guanosine 3',5'-monophosphate and Ca(2+) loading in the cortical neurons. These findings indicate that PSD-93 deficiency could block NMDAR-triggered neurotoxicity by disrupting the NMDAR-Ca(2+)-NO signaling pathway and reducing expression of synaptic NR2A and NR2B. Since NMDARs, Ca(2+), and NO play a critical role during the development of brain trauma, seizures, and ischemia, the present work suggests that PSD-93 might contribute to molecular mechanisms of neuronal damage in these brain disorders.
Tinnitus, also called phantom auditory perception, is a major health problem in western countries. As such, a significant amount of effort has been devoted to understanding its mechanisms, including studies in animals wherein a supposed &quot;tinnitus state&quot; can be induced. Here, we studied on the same awake animals the effects of a high-dose of salicylate and of an acoustic trauma both at levels known to induce tinnitus. Recordings of cortical activity (local field potentials) from chronically implanted electrodes in the same animals under each condition allowed direct comparison of the effects of salicylate and trauma (noise trauma was carried out several days after full recovery from salicylate administration). Salicylate induced a systematic and reversible increase in amplitude of cortical responses evoked by tone bursts over a wide range of frequencies and intensities. The effects of noise trauma, though much more variable than those of salicylate, resulted in both increases and decreases in the amplitude of cortical responses. These alterations of cortical response amplitudes likely reflect associated hypoacusis and hyperacusis. The effects of salicylate administration and noise trauma on spontaneous activity were also studied. Fourier analysis did not reveal any increase in power within any given frequency band; rather, both treatments induced a decrease of power spectrum over a relatively broad frequency band (approximately 10-30 Hz). Entropy rate of spontaneous activity, a measure of complexity (temporal correlations), was found to decrease after salicylate but not after acoustic trauma. The present data on evoked potentials confirm salicylate effects at the cortical level and partially extend such effects to acoustic trauma. While the present study showed that both salicylate and noise trauma induced some changes of spontaneous activity in auditory cortex, none of these changes are interpretable in terms of potential neural correlate of tinnitus.
Rat maternal behavior is a complex social behavior. Most antipsychotic drugs disrupt active maternal responses (e.g., pup retrieval, pup licking and nest building). Our previous work shows that typical antipsychotic haloperidol disrupts maternal behavior by blocking dopamine D(2) receptors, whereas atypical clozapine works by blocking 5-HT(2A/2C) receptors. The present study used c-Fos immunohistochemistry technique, together with pharmacological tools and behavioral observations, and delineated the neuroanatomical bases of the disruptive effects of haloperidol and clozapine. Postpartum female rats were treated with haloperidol (0.2 mg/kg sc) or clozapine (10.0 mg/kg sc), with or without pretreatment of quinpirole (a selective dopamine D(2)/D(3) agonist, 1.0 mg/kg sc) or 2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodo-amphetamine (DOI, a selective 5-HT(2A/2C) agonist, 2.5 mg/kg sc). They were then sacrificed 2 h later after a maternal behavior test was conducted. Brain regions that have been previously implicated in the regulation of rat maternal behavior and/or in the antipsychotic action were examined. Behaviorally, both haloperidol and clozapine disrupted pup retrieval, pup licking and nest building. Pretreatment of quinpirole, but not DOI, reversed the haloperidol-induced disruptions. In contrast, pretreatment of DOI, but not quinpirole, reversed the clozapine-induced deficits. Neuroanatomically, the nucleus accumbens (both the shell and core), dorsolateral striatum and lateral septum showed increased c-Fos expression to the treatment of haloperidol. In contrast, the nucleus accumbens shell showed increased expression of c-Fos to the treatment of clozapine. More importantly, pretreatment of quinpirole and DOI produced opposite response profiles in the brain regions where haloperidol and clozapine had an effect. Based on these findings, we concluded that haloperidol disrupts active maternal behavior primarily by blocking dopamine D(2) receptors in a neural circuitry involving the nucleus accumbens, dorsolateral striatum and lateral septum. In contrast, clozapine appears to disrupt maternal behavior mainly by blocking serotonin 5-HT(2A/2C) receptors in the nucleus accumbens shell.
Nucleus accumbens dopamine (DA) is a critical component of the brain circuitry regulating work output in reinforcement-seeking behavior and effort-related choice behavior. Moreover, there is evidence of an interaction between DA D(2) and adenosine A(2A) receptor function. Systemic administration of adenosine A(2A) antagonists reverses the effects of D(2) antagonists on tasks that assess effort related choice. The present experiments were conducted to determine if nucleus accumbens is a brain locus at which adenosine A(2A) and DA D(2) antagonists interact to regulate effort-related choice behavior. A concurrent fixed ratio 5 (FR5)/chow feeding procedure was used; with this procedure, rats can choose between completing an FR5 lever-pressing requirement for a preferred food (i.e., high carbohydrate operant pellets) or approaching and consuming a freely available food (i.e., standard rodent chow). Rats trained with this procedure spend most of their time pressing the lever for the preferred food, and eat very little of the concurrently available chow. Intracranial injections of the selective DA D(2) receptor antagonist eticlopride (1.0, 2.0, 4.0 microg) into nucleus accumbens core, but not a dorsal control site, suppressed FR5 lever-pressing and increased consumption of freely available chow. Either systemic or intra-accumbens injections of the adenosine A(2A) receptor antagonist MSX-3 reversed these effects of eticlopride on effort-related choice. Intra-accumbens injections of eticlopride also increased local expression of c-Fos immunoreactivity, and this effect was attenuated by co-administration of MSX-3. Adenosine and DA systems interact to regulate instrumental behavior and effort-related processes, and nucleus accumbens is an important locus for this interaction. These findings may have implications for the treatment of psychiatric symptoms such as psychomotor slowing, anergia and fatigue.
Recent studies have found that liver X receptors (LXRs) agonists decrease brain inflammation and exert neuroprotective effect. The aim of this study was to examine the mechanisms of action of liver X receptor agonist GW3965 against brain injury following global cerebral ischemia in the rat. The 48 male SD (Sprague-Dawley) rats were randomly partitioned into three groups: sham, global ischemia (4-vessel occlusion for 15 min; 4VO) treated with vehicle and global ischemia treated with GW3965 (20 mg/kg, via i.p. injection at 10 min after reperfusion). The functional outcome was determined by neurological evaluation at 24 h post ischemia and by testing rats in T maze at 3 and 7 days after reperfusion. The rats' daily body weight, incidence of seizures and 72 h mortality were also determined. After Nissl staining and TUNEL in coronal brain sections, the numbers of intact and damaged cells were counted in the CA1 sector of the hippocampus. The expression of phosphorylated inhibitor of kappaB (p-IkappaBalpha), nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) subunit p65, and cyclo-oxygenase-2 (COX-2) were analyzed with Western blot at 12 h after reperfusion. GW3965 tended to reduce 72 h mortality and the incidence of post-ischemic seizures. GW3965-treated rats showed an improved neuronal survivability in CA1 and a significant increase in the percentage of spontaneous alternations detected in T-maze on day 7 after ischemia. GW3965-induced neuroprotection was associated with a significant reduction in nuclear translocation of NF-kB p65 subunit and a decrease in the hippocampal expression of NF-kB target gene, COX-2. LXR receptor agonist protects against neuronal damage following global cerebral ischemia. The mechanism of neuroprotection may include blockade of NF-kappaB activation and the subsequent suppression of COX-2 in the post ischemic brain.
Stressful social experiences during early-life can increase the risk of developing neuropsychiatric disorders associated with anxiety, mood, and personality. Early neglect also alters peripheral arginine vasopression (AVP) and oxytocin (OXT). We hypothesized that a lack of social stimuli should adversely affect developmental AVP and OXT systems. To test this idea, we examined changes of central AVP- and OXT-immunoreactive (ir) cell number as well as its related behaviors in socially isolated rats. Animals were weaned at 23 days of age, divided into group- or isolation-reared conditions, and maintained for at least 2 weeks. At 38-48 days of age, animals were sacrificed for immunohistochemistry, or used for two behavioral tests: elevated plus-maze test and social recognition test. The results from immunohistochemistry showed that isolation-reared males have decreased AVP-ir cells in the paraventricular nucleus hypothalamus (PVH), medial parvicellular part, ventral zone, and that isolation-reared females have decreased OXT-ir cells in the PVH, medial parvicellular part, dorsal zone, when compared with group-reared counterparts. The results from behavioral assessment showed that isolation-reared animals have difficulty with social recognition, and that isolation-reared males, but not females, have anxiogenic profile. The present study demonstrates that post-weaning social isolation results in decrease of male AVP-ir cells and female OXT-ir cells in the PVH parvocellular divisions, and supports the idea that juvenile social environment may play a critical role in neuronal and behavioral development.
Exercise preconditioning induces neuroprotection after stroke. We investigated the beneficial role of heat shock protein-70 (HSP-70) and phosphorylated extracellular-signal-regulated-kinase 1/2 (pERK 1/2), as they pertain to reducing apoptosis and their influence on Bcl-x(L), Bax, and apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF) in rats subjected to ischemia and reperfusion. Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were subjected to 30 min of exercise on a treadmill for 1, 2, or 3 weeks. Stroke was induced by a 2-h middle cerebral artery (MCA) occlusion using an intraluminal filament. Protein levels of HSP-70, pERK 1/2, Bcl-x(L), Bax, and AIF were analyzed using Western blot. Neuroprotection was based on levels of apoptosis (TUNEL) and infarct volume (Nissl staining). Immunocytochemistry was used for cellular expression of HSP-70 and pERK 1/2. Significant (P&lt;0.05) up-regulation of HSP-70 and pERK 1/2 after 3 weeks of exercise coincided with significant (P&lt;0.05) reduction in neuronal apoptosis and brain infarct volume. Inhibition of either one of these two factors showed a significant (P&lt;0.05) reversal in the neuroprotection. Bax and AIF were down-regulated, while levels of Bcl-x(L) were up-regulated in response to stroke after exercise. Inhibiting HSP-70 or pERK 1/2 reversed this resultant increase or decrease. Our results indicate that exercise diminishes neuronal injury in stroke by up-regulating HSP-70 and ERK 1/2.
Constant transcranial direct stimulation (c-tDCS) of the primary motor hand area (M1(HAND)) can induce bidirectional shifts in motor cortical excitability depending on the polarity of tDCS. Recently, anodal slow oscillation stimulation at a frequency of 0.75 Hz has been shown to augment intrinsic slow oscillations during sleep and theta oscillations during wakefulness. To embed this new type of stimulation into the existing tDCS literature, we aimed to characterize the after effects of slowly oscillating stimulation (so-tDCS) on M1(HAND) excitability and to compare them to those of c-tDCS. Here we show that so-tDCS at 0.8 Hz can also induce lasting changes in corticospinal excitability during wakefulness. Experiment 1. In 10 healthy awake individuals, we applied c-tDCS or so-tDCS to left M1(HAND) on separate days. Each tDCS protocol lasted for 10 min. Measurements of motor evoked potentials (MEPs) confirmed previous work showing that anodal c-tDCS at an intensity of 0.75 mA (maximal current density 0.0625 mA/cm2) enhanced corticospinal excitability, while cathodal c-tDCS at 0.75 mA reduced it. The polarity-specific shifts in excitability persisted for at least 20 min after c-tDCS. Using a peak current intensity of 0.75 mA, neither anodal nor cathodal so-tDCS had consistent effects on corticospinal excitability. Experiment 2. In a separate group of ten individuals, peak current intensity of so-tDCS was raised to 1.5 mA (maximal current density 0.125 mA/cm2) to match the total amount of current applied with so-tDCS to the amount of current that had been applied with c-tDCS at 0.75 mA in Experiment 1. At peak intensity of 1.5 mA, anodal and cathodal so-tDCS produced bidirectional changes in corticospinal excitability comparable to the after effects that had been observed after c-tDCS at 0.75 mA in Experiment 1. The results show that so-tDCS can induce bidirectional shifts in corticospinal excitability in a similar fashion as c-tDCS if the total amount of applied current during the tDCS session is matched.
Platelet-activating factor (PAF) is an important inflammatory lipid mediator affecting neural plasticity. In the present study, we demonstrated how PAF affects synaptic efficacy through activation of protein kinases in the rat hippocampal CA1 region. In cultured hippocampal neurons, 10 to 1000 nM PAF stimulated autophosphorylation of calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) and phosphorylation of synapsin I and myristoylated alanine-rich protein kinase C substrate (MARCKS). In hippocampal CA1 slices, field excitatory postsynaptic potentials (fEPSPs) induced by stimulation of the Schaffer collateral/commissural pathways were significantly increased 10-50 min after exposure to 100 to 1000 nM PAF. Immunoblotting analysis showed that 100 nM PAF treatment for 10 or 50 min significantly and persistently increased CaMKII autophosphorylation in the hippocampal CA1 region. Increased protein kinase Calpha (PKCalpha) autophosphorylation was also seen at the same time point after PAF exposure. By contrast, extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) phosphorylation was slightly but significantly increased at 10 min after PAF exposure. Consistent with increased CaMKII autophosphorylation, AMPA-type glutamate receptor subunit 1 (GluR1) (Ser-831) phosphorylation as a CaMKII postsynaptic substrate significantly increased after 10 or 50 min of treatment, whereas synapsin I (Ser-603) phosphorylation as a presynaptic substrate increased at 10 min in the hippocampal CA1 region. Phosphorylation of MARCKS (Ser-152/156) and NMDA receptor subunit 1 (NR1) (Ser-896) as PKCalpha substrates also significantly increased after 10 min but had not further increased by 50 min in the CA1 region. Increased of fEPSPs induced by PAF treatment completely and/or partly inhibited by KN93 and/or U0126 treatment. These results suggest that PAF induces synaptic facilitation through activation of CaMKII, PKC and ERK in the hippocampal CA1 region.
Neuroimaging studies in Parkinson's disease (PD) have previously demonstrated several regions of hypo- and hyper-activation during voluntary movement. How these patterns of amplitude changes at multiple discrete foci relate to changes within functional networks recruited by a given task is unclear. Changes in both amplitude and connectivity have both been individually shown within the striato-thalamo-cortical (STC) loop in PD, as well as other regions, most consistently in the cerebellum and primary motor cortex. We have previously shown overactivation of the cerebellum and motor cortex in PD subjects off medication during a visuo-motor tracking task performed at three frequencies. Here, we show that this change in activation amplitude is also accompanied by significant changes in functional connectivity between regions of interest (ROIs), with enhanced connectivity within the cerebello-thalamo-cortical (CTC) loop as well as increased inter-hemispheric communication between several basal ganglia structures. Although changes in activation amplitude were influenced by the frequency of movement performed in the tracking task, functional connectivity changes were robustly present across all three task frequencies performed, suggesting that functional connectivity analysis in PD may be a more sensitive means of detecting plastic changes which are relatively invariant to the particulars of the experimental task. Additionally, we demonstrate amplitude and connectivity changes in structures that are typically active during the resting state, or &quot;default-mode,&quot; in PD. Unlike in STC/CTC loops, where the direction of change was the same for amplitude and connectivity, default-mode regions showed increased amplitude but decreased connectivity. Our results further support that the CTC is recruited in PD to compensate for dysfunctional basal ganglia circuits, and that this recruitment involves both amplitude and connectivity changes. The differing relationship between amplitude and connectivity changes within individual loops highlights the importance of jointly examining them in order to fully elucidate functional changes in Parkinson's disease.
Adenovirus vectors (AdVs) are efficient tools for gene therapy in many tissues. Several studies have demonstrated successful transgene transduction with AdVs in the inner ear of rodents [Kawamoto K, Ishimoto SI, Minoda R, Brough DE, Raphael Y (2003) J Neurosci 23:4395-4400]. However, toxicity of AdVs [Morral N, O'Neal WK, Rice K, Leland MM, Piedra PA, Aguilar-Cordova E, Carey KD, Beaudet AL, Langston C (2002) Hum Gene Ther 13:143-154.] or lack of tropism to important cell types such as hair cells [Shou J, Zheng JL, Gao WQ (2003) Mol Cell Neurosci 23:169-179] appears to limit their experimental and potential clinical utility. Histone deacetylase inhibitors (HDIs) are known to enhance AdV-mediated transgene expression in various organs [Dion LD, Goldsmith KT, Tang DC, Engler JA, Yoshida M, Garver RI Jr (1997) Virology 231:201-209], but their effects in the inner ear have not been documented. We investigated the ability of one HDI, trichostatin A (TSA), to enhance AdV-mediated transgene expression in inner ear tissue. We cultured neonatal rat macular and cochlear explants, and transduced them with an AdV encoding green fluorescent protein (Ad-GFP) under the control of a constitutive promoter for 24 h. In the absence of TSA, GFP expression was limited, and very few hair cells were transduced. TSA did not enhance transduction when applied at the onset of Ad-GFP transduction. However, administration of TSA during or just after Ad-GFP application increased GFP expression in supporting cells approximately fourfold. Moreover, vestibular hair cell transduction was enhanced approximately sixfold, and that of inner hair cells by more than 17-fold. These results suggest that TSA increases AdV-mediated transgene expression in the inner ear, including the successful transduction of hair cells. HDIs, some of which are currently under clinical trials (Sandor et al., 2002), could be useful tools in overcoming current limitations of gene therapy in the inner ear using Ad-GFP.

The concepts of post-stroke depression and vascular depression have emphasized the bidirectional etiologic links that may connect depression and cardiovascular risk factors. In post-stroke depression, the pathogenic role of a chronic cumulative &quot;burden&quot; of subcortical lesions has been well established. In what concerns late-onset depression and the symptomatic profile attributed to &quot;vascular depressions, and despite a growing body of evidence from both neuroimaging and neuropathologic studies, this bilateral causality is still matter of debate. This field of research has highlighted the need for an interdisciplinary view in these traditionally divided fields.
Invariant E309 is in contact with critical and invariant D398 in a three-dimensional homology model of vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT, TC 2.A.1.2.13) [Vardy, E., et al. (2004) Protein Sci. 13, 1832-1840]. In the work reported here, E309 and D398 in human VAChT were mutated singly and together to test their functions, assign pK values to them, and determine whether the residues are close to each other in three-dimensional space. Mutants were stably expressed in the PC12(A123.7) cell line, and transport and binding properties were characterized at different pH values using radiolabeled ligands and filtration assays. Contrary to a prior conclusion, the results demonstrate that most D398 mutants do not bind the allosteric inhibitor vesamicol even weakly. Earlier work showed that most D398 mutants do not transport ACh. D398 therefore probably is the residue that must deprotonate with a pK of 6.5 for binding of vesamicol and with a pK of approximately 5.9 for transport of ACh. Because E309Q has no effect on VAChT functions at physiological pH, E309 has no apparent critical role. However, radical mutations in E309 cause decreases in ACh and vesamicol affinities and total loss of ACh transport. Unlike wild-type VAChT, which exhibits a peak of [(3)H]vesamicol binding centered at pH 7.4, mutants E309Q, E309D, E309A, and E309K all exhibit peaks of binding centered at pH &gt;or=9. The combination of high pH and mutated E309 apparently produces a relaxed (in contrast to tense) conformation of VAChT that binds vesamicol exceptionally tightly. No compensatory interactions between E309 and D398 in double mutants were discovered. Proof of a close spatial relationship between E309 and D398 was not found. Nevertheless, the data are more consistent with the homology model than an alternative hydropathy model of VAChT that likely locates E309 far from D398 and the ACh binding site in three-dimensional space. Also, a probable network of interactions involving E309 and an unknown residue having a pK of 10 has been revealed.

The neuroanatomical organization of the visual system is largely similar across primate species, predicting similar visual behaviors and perceptions. Although responses to trial-by-trial presentation of static images suggest that primates share visual orienting strategies, these reduced stimuli fail to capture key elements of the naturalistic, dynamic visual world in which we evolved. Here, we compared the gaze behavior of humans and macaques when they viewed three different 3-minute movie clips. We found significant intersubject and interspecies gaze correlations, suggesting that both species attend a common set of events in each scene. Comparing human and monkey gaze behavior with a computational saliency model revealed that interspecies gaze correlations were driven by biologically relevant social stimuli overlooked by low-level saliency models. Additionally, humans, but not monkeys, tended to gaze toward the targets of viewed individual's actions or gaze. Together, these data suggest that human and monkey gaze behavior comprises converging and diverging informational strategies, driven by both scene content and context; they are not fully described by simple low-level visual models.
Working memory allows information from transient events to persist as active neural representations that can be used for goal-directed behaviors such as decision making and learning. Computational modeling based on neuronal firing patterns in animals suggests that one putative mechanism enabling working memory is periodic reactivation (henceforth termed &quot;replay&quot;) of the maintained information coordinated by neural oscillations at theta (4-8 Hz) and gamma (30-80 Hz) frequency. To investigate this possibility, we trained multivariate pattern classifier decoding algorithms on oscillatory brain responses to images depicting natural scenes, recorded with high temporal resolution via magnetoencephalography. These classifiers were applied to brain activity recorded during the subsequent five second maintenance of the scenes. This decoding revealed replay during the entire maintenance interval. Replay was specific to whether an indoor or an outdoor scene was maintained and whether maintenance centered on configural associations of scene elements or just single scene elements. Replay was coordinated by the phase of theta and the amount of theta coordination was correlated with working memory performance. By confirming the predictions of a mechanistic model and linking these to behavioral performance in humans, these findings identify theta-coupled replay as a mechanism of working memory maintenance.
Viral gene transfer or transgenic animals are commonly used technologies to alter gene expression in the adult brain, although these approaches lack spatial specificity and are time consuming. We delivered plasmid DNA locally into the brain of adult C57BL/6 mice in vivo by voltage- and current-controlled electroporation. The low current-controlled delivery of unipolar square wave pulses of 125 microA with microstimulation electrodes at the injection site gave 16 times higher transfection rates than a voltage-controlled electroporation protocol with plate electrodes resulting in currents of about 400 mA. Transfection was restricted to the target region and no damage due to the electric pulses was found. Our current-controlled electroporation protocol indicated that the use of very low currents resulting in applied voltages within the physiological range of the membrane potential, allows efficient transfection of nonviral plasmid DNA. In conclusion, low current-controlled electroporation is an excellent approach for electroporation in the adult brain, i.e., gene function can be influenced locally at a high level with no mortality and minimal tissue damage.
Seizures in focal epilepsies are sustained by a highly synchronous neuronal discharge that arises at restricted brain sites and subsequently spreads to large portions of the brain. Despite intense experimental research in this field, the earlier cellular events that initiate and sustain a focal seizure are still not well defined. Their identification is central to understand the pathophysiology of focal epilepsies and to develop new pharmacological therapies for drug-resistant forms of epilepsy. The prominent involvement of astrocytes in ictogenesis was recently proposed. We test here whether a cooperation between astrocytes and neurons is a prerequisite to support ictal (seizure-like) and interictal epileptiform events. Simultaneous patch-clamp recording and Ca2+ imaging techniques were performed in a new in vitro model of focal seizures induced by local applications of N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) in rat entorhinal cortex slices. We found that a Ca2+ elevation in astrocytes correlates with both the initial development and the maintenance of a focal, seizure-like discharge. A delayed astrocyte activation during ictal discharges was also observed in other models (including the whole in vitro isolated guinea pig brain) in which the site of generation of seizure activity cannot be precisely monitored. In contrast, interictal discharges were not associated with Ca2+ changes in astrocytes. Selective inhibition or stimulation of astrocyte Ca2+ signalling blocked or enhanced, respectively, ictal discharges, but did not affect interictal discharge generation. Our data reveal that neurons engage astrocytes in a recurrent excitatory loop (possibly involving gliotransmission) that promotes seizure ignition and sustains the ictal discharge. This neuron-astrocyte interaction may represent a novel target to develop effective therapeutic strategies to control seizures.
Transposable elements (such as the P-element and piggyBac) have been used to introduce thousands of transgenic constructs into the Drosophila genome. These transgenic constructs serve many roles, from assaying gene/cell function, to controlling chromosome arm rearrangement. Knowing the precise genomic insertion site for the transposable element is often desired. This enables identification of genomic enhancer regions trapped by an enhancer trap, identification of the gene mutated by a transposon insertion, or simplifying recombination experiments. The most commonly used transgene mapping method is inverse PCR (iPCR). Although usually effective, limitations with iPCR hinder its ability to isolate flanking genomic DNA in complex genomic loci, such as those that contain natural transposons. Here we report the adaptation of the splinkerette PCR (spPCR) method for the isolation of flanking genomic DNA of any P-element or piggyBac. We report a simple and detailed protocol for spPCR. We use spPCR to 1) map a GAL4 enhancer trap located inside a natural transposon, pinpointing a master regulatory region for olfactory neuron expression in the brain; and 2) map all commonly used centromeric FRT insertion sites. The ease, efficiency, and efficacy of spPCR could make it a favored choice for the mapping of transposable element in Drosophila.
Episodic memory requires the hippocampus, which is thought to bind cortical inputs into conjunctive codes. Local field potentials (LFPs) reflect dendritic and synaptic oscillations whose temporal structure may coordinate cellular mechanisms of plasticity and memory. We now report that single-trial spatial memory performance in rats was predicted by the power comodulation of theta (4-10 Hz) and low gamma (30-50 Hz) rhythms in the hippocampus. Theta-gamma comodulation (TGC) was prominent during successful memory retrieval but was weak when memory failed or was unavailable during spatial exploration in sample trials. Muscimol infusion into medial septum reduced the probability of TGC and successful memory retrieval. In contrast, patterned electrical stimulation of the fimbria-fornix increased TGC in amnestic animals and partially rescued memory performance in the water maze. The results suggest that TGC accompanies memory retrieval in the hippocampus and that patterned brain stimulation may inform therapeutic strategies for cognitive disorders.
Plasmacytoid dendritic cells (pDCs) play a key role in antiviral immunity, but also contribute to the pathogenesis of certain autoimmune diseases, by producing large amounts of type I IFNs. Although activation of pDCs is triggered by engagement of nucleotide-sensing toll-like receptors (TLR) 7 and 9, type I IFN induction additionally requires IkappaB kinase (IKK) alpha-dependent activation of IFN regulatory factor (IRF) 7. However, the signaling pathway mediating IKK-alpha activation is poorly defined. We show that DOCK2, an atypical Rac activator, is essential for TLR7- and TLR9-mediated IFN-alpha induction in pDCs. We found that the exposure of pDCs to nucleic acid ligands induces Rac activation through a TLR-independent and DOCK2-dependent mechanism. Although this Rac activation was dispensable for induction of inflammatory cytokines, phosphorylation of IKK-alpha and nuclear translocation of IRF-7 were impaired in Dock2-deficient pDCs, resulting in selective loss of IFN-alpha induction. Similar results were obtained when a dominant-negative Rac mutant was expressed in wild-type pDCs. Thus, the DOCK2-Rac signaling pathway acts in parallel with TLR engagement to control IKK-alpha activation for type I IFN induction. Owing to its hematopoietic cell-specific expression, DOCK2 may serve as a therapeutic target for type I IFN-related autoimmune diseases.
The zebrafish has been in the forefront of developmental biology for three decades and has become a favorite of geneticists. Due to the accumulated genetic knowledge and tools developed for the zebrafish it is gaining popularity in other disciplines, including neuroscience. The zebrafish offers a compromise between system complexity (it is a vertebrate similar in many ways to our own species) and practical simplicity (it is small, easy to keep, and prolific). Such features make zebrafish an excellent choice for high throughput mutation and drug screening. For the identification of mutation or drug induced alteration of brain function arguably the best methods are behavioral test paradigms. This review does not present experimental examples for the identification of particular genes or drugs. Instead it describes how behavioral screening methods may enable one to find functional alterations in the vertebrate brain. Furthermore, the review is not comprehensive. The behavioral test examples presented are biased according to the personal interests of the author. They will cover research areas including learning and memory, fear and anxiety, and social behavior. Nevertheless, the general principles will apply to other functional domains and should represent a snapshot of the rapidly evolving behavioral screening field with zebrafish.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is one of the most common neurodegenerative disorders characterized by progressive and profound loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra (SN) resulting in resting tremor, rigidity, bradykinesia, and postural instability. The primary cause of the disease is still unknown, but mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress have been implicated in the neurodegenerative process. Oxoguanine DNA glycosylase (OGG1) removes oxidized guanine (8-oxo-G) from the DNA, thus reducing the mutagenic potential of this modified base. Increased 8-oxo-G levels and up-regulation of OGG1 have been detected in the SN of PD brains. Moreover, studies performed in OGG1 knockout mice revealed the importance of this enzyme in protecting dopaminergic neurons against the accumulation of oxidative DNA damage. A common Ser326Cys polymorphism is known in the human gene encoding OGG1 (hOGG1), and the mutant Cys326 variant has been associated with reduced glycosylase activity. In the present study we screened 139 sporadic PD patients and 211 healthy matched controls for the presence of the hOGG1 Ser326Cys polymorphism. The Cys326 allele frequency was similar between the groups (0.20 in PD patients and 0.19 in controls; p=0.817), and no difference in genotype frequencies was observed. Moreover, the hOGG1 Ser326Cys polymorphism was not associated with disease age at onset (p=0.791). Overall, present results suggest that the hOGG1 Ser326Cys polymorphism is not associated with sporadic PD.
Glutamic acid decarboxylase is responsible for synthesizing GABA, the major inhibitory neurotransmitter, and exists in two isoforms--GAD65 and GAD67. The enzyme is cleaved under excitotoxic conditions, but the mechanisms involved and the functional consequences are not fully elucidated. We found that excitotoxic stimulation of cultured hippocampal neurons with glutamate leads to a time-dependent cleavage of GAD65 and GAD67 in the N-terminal region of the proteins, and decrease the corresponding mRNAs. The cleavage of GAD67 was sensitive to the proteasome inhibitors MG132, YU102 and lactacystin, and was also abrogated by the E1 ubiquitin ligase inhibitor UBEI-41. In contrast, MG132 and UBEI-41 were the only inhibitors tested that showed an effect on GAD65 cleavage. Excitotoxic stimulation with glutamate also increased the amount of GAD captured in experiments where ubiquitinated proteins and their binding partners were isolated. However, no evidences were found for direct GADs ubiquitination in cultured hippocampal neurons, and recombinant GAD65 was not cleaved by purified 20S or 26S proteasome preparations. Since calpains, a group of calcium activated proteases, play a key role in GAD65/67 cleavage under excitotoxic conditions the results suggest that GADs are cleaved after ubiquitination and degradation of an unknown binding partner by the proteasome. The characteristic punctate distribution of GAD65 along neurites of differentiated cultured hippocampal neurons was significantly reduced after excitotoxic injury, and the total GAD activity measured in extracts from the cerebellum or cerebral cortex at 24h postmortem (when there is a partial cleavage of GADs) was also decreased. The results show a role of the UPS in the cleavage of GAD65/67 and point out the deregulation of GADs under excitotoxic conditions, which is likely to affect GABAergic neurotransmission. This is the first time that the UPS has been implicated in the events triggered during excitotoxicity and the first molecular target of the UPS affected in this cell death process.


Until recently, organized and state-dependent neocortical activity in infant rats was thought to commence with the emergence of delta waves at postnatal day (P)11. This view is changing with the discovery of several forms of cortical activity that are detectable soon after birth, including spindle bursts (SBs) and slow activity transients (SATs). Here we provide further evidence of surprisingly rich cortical activity patterns during early development and document, in P5-P13 rats, the appearance, disappearance, and transient expression of three cortical events and oscillations. EEG activity in frontal, parietal, and occipital cortices was recorded in unanesthetized, head-fixed subjects using 16-channel laminar silicon electrodes and Ag-AgCl electrodes. In addition to SATs, we identified two novel forms of activity: cortical sharp potentials (CSPs) and gamma bursts (GBs). SBs were not observed in these areas. CSPs, defined as discrete, biphasic events with a duration of 250 ms, exhibited an inverted-U developmental trajectory with peak prevalence at P9. In contrast, GBs, defined as brief bursts of 40-Hz activity, increased steadily in prevalence and duration from P5 through P13. The prevalence of SATs decreased steadily across the ages tested here. Furthermore, both CSPs and GBs were more likely to occur during sleep than during wakefulness. Because SATs, CSPs, and GBs exhibit different developmental trajectories and rates of occurrence, and can occur independently of each other, they appear to be distinct patterns of neuronal activity. We hypothesize that these diverse patterns of neurophysiological activity reflect the instantaneous local structure and connectivity of the developing neocortex.



In the early twentieth century, the German laboratories of Spielmeyer and the Vogts proposed competing pathogenetic theories for Ammon's horn sclerosis. Spielmeyer's vascular pathogenesis theory was initially preferred, but the Vogts' Pathoklise theory was later favored. From 1925 to 1927, Uchimura worked in the Spielmeyer's laboratory. There, Uchimura first described the detailed vascular anatomy of the hippocampus. His work formed the basis for the vascular theory of Ammon's horn sclerosis. Because of Germany's prominence in medical science and Japan's preference for the German medical system, Uchimura among many young Japanese medical scientists, travelled to the institutes of German-speaking Europe for training.
This paper discusses the contribution of Spanish neurologist Manuel Peraita (1908-1950) to the study of deficiency neuropathy in the setting of the Spanish Civil War (1936-1939). The clinical characteristics of &quot;paraesthetic-causalgic syndrome&quot; or &quot;Madrid syndrome&quot; as described by Peraita are discussed, and the syndrome is presented in relation to other similar conditions, including Strachan's syndrome and burning feet syndrome.
In the late 1860s and early 1870s, Darwin had corresponded with the French physician and physiologist, G. B. A. Duchenne, regarding Duchenne's experimental manipulation of human facial expression of emotion, by applying Galvanic electrical stimulation directly to facial muscles. Duchenne had produced a set of over 60 photographic plates to illustrate his view that there are different muscles in the human face that are separately responsible for each individual emotion. Darwin studied this material very carefully and he received permission from Duchenne in 1871 to reproduce several of these images in The Expression of the Emotions in Man and Animals (1872). Darwin had doubted Duchenne's view that there were individual muscle groups that mediate the expression of dozens of separable emotions, and he wondered whether there might instead be a fewer set of core emotions that are expressed with great stability worldwide and across cultures. Prompted by his doubts regarding the veracity of Duchenne's model, Darwin conducted what may have been the first-ever single-blind study of the recognition of human facial expression of emotion. This single experiment was a little-known forerunner for an entire modern field of study with contemporary clinical relevance. Moreover, his specific question about cross-cultural recognition of the cardinal emotions in faces is a topic that is being actively studied (in the twenty-first century) with the hope of developing novel biomarkers to aid the discovery of new therapies for the treatment of schizophrenia, autism, and other neuropsychiatric diseases.
In the biography of his grandfather (Erasmus Darwin), Charles Darwin hinted that his father (Robert Darwin) had received parental assistance in conducting and writing his medical thesis (which concerned afterimages). The experiments also involved visual vertigo, and they were elaborated by the senior Darwin in his Zoonomia, published in 1794. Erasmus Darwin's interpretation was in terms of trying to pursue peripheral afterimages formed during rotation; it was at variance with one published two years earlier by William Charles Wells, who had investigated the visual consequences of body rotation when the body is subsequently still. Wells penned two retorts to the Darwins' theory; although they were not accepted by Erasmus, he did devise a human centrifuge, models of which were employed in later studies of vertigo. Wells's ideas on evolution were expressed in a paper delivered to the Royal Society (in 1813) but not published in its Transactions. Commenting on the case of a white woman, part of whose skin was black, he proposed a process of change that was akin to natural selection. His ideas were acknowledged by Charles Darwin in the fourth edition of On the Origin of Species.
Fragile X syndrome (FXS), the most common form of inherited mental retardation, is caused by the loss of functional fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP). FMRP is an RNA-binding protein that can regulate the translation of specific mRNAs. Adult neurogenesis, a process considered important for neuroplasticity and memory, is regulated at multiple molecular levels. In this study, we investigated whether Fmrp deficiency affects adult neurogenesis. We show that in a mouse model of fragile X syndrome, adult neurogenesis is indeed altered. The loss of Fmrp increases the proliferation and alters the fate specification of adult neural progenitor/stem cells (aNPCs). We demonstrate that Fmrp regulates the protein expression of several components critical for aNPC function, including CDK4 and GSK3beta. Dysregulation of GSK3beta led to reduced Wnt signaling pathway activity, which altered the expression of neurogenin1 and the fate specification of aNPCs. These data unveil a novel regulatory role for Fmrp and translational regulation in adult neurogenesis.

The current study aimed to further elucidate the role of endocannabinoid signaling in methamphetamine-induced psychomotor activation. Rats were treated with bilateral, intracranial microinjections of the cannabinoid CB1 receptor antagonists rimonabant (1 microg; 1 microl) or AM251 (1 microg; 1 microl), or vehicle (1 microl), followed by intravenous methamphetamine (3 mg/kg). Antagonist pretreatment in the nucleus accumbens core, but not shell, attenuated methamphetamine-induced stereotypy, while treatment in either brain region had no effect on drug-induced locomotion. In a parallel experiment, we recorded multiple single units in the nucleus accumbens of behaving rats treated with intravenous rimonabant (0.3 mg/kg) or vehicle, followed by methamphetamine (0.01, 0.1, 1, 3 mg/kg; cumulative dosing). We observed robust, phasic changes in neuronal firing time locked to the onset of methamphetamine-induced locomotion and stereotypy. Stereotypy encoding was observed in the core and was attenuated by CB1 receptor antagonism, while locomotor correlates were observed uniformly across the accumbens and were not affected by rimonabant. Psychomotor activation encoding was expressed predominantly by putative fast-spiking interneurons. We therefore propose that endocannabinoid modulation of psychomotor activation is preferentially driven by CB1 receptor-dependent interneuron activity in the nucleus accumbens core.
Glucocorticoid hormones enhance the consolidation of long-term memory of emotionally arousing training experiences. This memory enhancement requires activation of the cAMP-dependent kinase pathway and the subsequent phosphorylation of cAMP response-element binding (CREB) protein. Here, we demonstrate that glucocorticoids enhance the consolidation of hippocampus-dependent and hippocampus-independent aspects of object recognition memory via chromatin modification. More specifically, systemic corticosterone increases histone acetylation, a form of chromatin modification, in both the hippocampus and insular cortex following training on an object recognition task. This led us to examine whether increasing histone acetylation via histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibition enhances memory in a manner similar to corticosterone. We found a double dissociation between posttraining HDAC inhibitor infusion into the insular cortex and hippocampus on the enhancement of object recognition and object location memory, respectively. In determining the molecular pathway upstream of glucocorticoids' effects on chromatin modification, we found that activation of membrane-associated glucocorticoid receptors (GRs) and the subsequent interaction between phospho-CREB and CREB-binding protein (CBP) appear to be necessary for glucocorticoids to enhance memory consolidation via chromatin modification. In contrast, mineralocorticoid receptors (MRs) do not appear to be involved. The findings also indicate that glucocorticoid activity has differential influences on hippocampus-dependent and hippocampus-independent components of memory for objects.
Understanding speech in background noise is challenging for every listener, including those with normal peripheral hearing. This difficulty is attributable in part to the disruptive effects of noise on neural synchrony, resulting in degraded representation of speech at cortical and subcortical levels as reflected by electrophysiological responses. These problems are especially pronounced in clinical populations such as children with learning impairments. Given the established effects of noise on evoked responses, we hypothesized that listening-in-noise problems are associated with degraded processing of timing information at the brainstem level. Participants (66 children; ages, 8-14 years; 22 females) were divided into groups based on their performance on clinical measures of speech-in-noise (SIN) perception and reading. We compared brainstem responses to speech syllables between top and bottom SIN and reading groups in the presence and absence of competing multitalker babble. In the quiet condition, neural response timing was equivalent between groups. In noise, however, the bottom groups exhibited greater neural delays relative to the top groups. Group-specific timing delays occurred exclusively in response to the noise-vulnerable formant transition, not to the more perceptually robust, steady-state portion of the stimulus. These results demonstrate that neural timing is disrupted by background noise and that greater disruptions are associated with the inability to perceive speech in challenging listening conditions.
The formation of paranodal axo-glial junctions is critical for the rapid and efficient propagation of nerve impulses. Genetic ablation of genes encoding the critical paranodal proteins Caspr, contactin (Cont), and the myelinating glia-specific isoform of Neurofascin (Nfasc(NF155)) results in the disruption of the paranodal axo-glial junctions, loss of ion channel segregation, and impaired nerve conduction, but the mechanisms regulating their interactions remain elusive. Here, we report that loss of immunoglobulin (Ig) domains 5 and 6 in Nfasc(NF155) in mice phenocopies complete ablation of Nfasc(NF155). The mutant mice lack paranodal septate junctions, resulting in the diffusion of Caspr and Cont from the paranodes, and redistribution of the juxtaparanodal potassium channels toward the nodes. Although critical for Nfasc(NF155) function, we find that Ig5-6 are dispensable for nodal Nfasc(NF186) function. Moreover, in vitro binding assays using Ig5-6 deletion constructs reveal their importance for the association of Nfasc(NF155) with Cont. These findings provide the first molecular evidence demonstrating domain-specific requirements controlling the association of the paranodal tripartite complex in vivo. Our studies further emphasize that in vivo structure/function analysis is necessary to define the unique protein-protein interactions that differentially regulate the functions of Neurofascins during axonal domain organization.
Although amyloid beta (Abeta) oligomers are presumed to cause synaptic and cognitive dysfunction in Alzheimer's disease (AD), their contribution to other pathological features of AD remains unclear. To address the latter, we generated APP transgenic mice expressing the E693Delta mutation, which causes AD by enhanced Abeta oligomerization without fibrillization. The mice displayed age-dependent accumulation of intraneuronal Abeta oligomers from 8 months but no extracellular amyloid deposits even at 24 months. Hippocampal synaptic plasticity and memory were impaired at 8 months, at which time the presynaptic marker synaptophysin began to decrease. Furthermore, we detected abnormal tau phosphorylation from 8 months, microglial activation from 12 months, astrocyte activation from 18 months, and neuronal loss at 24 months. These findings suggest that Abeta oligomers cause not only synaptic alteration but also other features of AD pathology and that these mice are a useful model of Abeta oligomer-induced pathology in the absence of amyloid plaques.
The aim of this study was to explore the impact of mental illness among patients with migraine. We performed MedLine and PsycINFO searches from 1980 to 2008. Research has systematically documented a strong bidirectional association between migraine and psychiatric disorders. The relationship between migraine and psychopathology has often been clinically discussed rather than systematically studied. Future research should include sound methodologically-based studies focusing on the interplay of factors behind the relationship between migraine, suicide risk, and mental illness.
We tested adults and children aged 7 and 14 on the ability to integrate contour elements across variations in the collinearity of the target elements, their spatial proximity, and the relative spacing of the target elements to the background noise elements (Delta). When collinearity was high, the strength of integration for adults was largely independent of spatial proximity and varied only with Delta. It was only when collinearity was less reliable because the orientation of the elements was randomly jittered that spatial proximity began to influence adults' integration. These patterns correspond well to the probability that real-world contours compose a single object: collinear elements are more likely to reflect parts of a real object and adults integrate them easily regardless of the proximity among those collinear elements. The results from children demonstrate a gradual improvement of contour integration throughout childhood and the slow development of sensitivity to the statistics of natural scenes. Unlike adults, integration in children was limited by spatial proximity regardless of collinearity and one strong cue did not compensate for the other. Only after age 14 did collinearity, the most reliable cue, come to compensate efficiently for spatial proximity.
Rather little is known about the mechanisms that combine the outputs of orientation- and spatial frequency-selective channels. These can be studied by measuring the selective adaptation to compound stimuli over and above that expected from adaptation to the components alone (Peirce &amp; Taylor, 2006). Here we investigated the contrast- and spatial phase-dependency of such mechanisms. A plaid was adapted in one visual hemi-field, while its constituent gratings were simultaneously adapted in the other hemi-field. Plaid-selective adaptation was most apparent with high-contrast probes, whereas adaptation to the component grating stimuli dominated at low contrasts. The mechanisms underlying this plaid-selective adaptation also appear to be insensitive to the spatial phase of the probes relative to the adaptor, whereas we find a clear phase-dependency for suprathreshold contrast adaptation to grating stimuli. These findings suggest that the visual system is equipped with mechanisms that conduct a global analysis of the plaid pattern, which are likely derived from the non-linear outputs of V1 complex cells.
Prior work showed that neurons in the lateral, dorsal, and perifornical regions of the tuberal and mammillary levels of the hypothalamus participate in the control of breathing. The same areas also contain large numbers of neurons that produce either orexins (hypocretins) or melanin concentrating hormone (MCH). These peptides have been implicated in regulating energy balance and physiological changes that occur in transitions between sleep and wakefulness, amongst other functions. The goal of this study was to determine if hypothalamic neurons involved in respiratory control, which were identified in cats by the retrograde transneuronal transport of rabies virus from the diaphragm, were immunopositive for either orexin-A or MCH. In animals with limited rabies infection of the hypothalamus (&lt;10 infected cells/section), where the neurons with the most direct influences on diaphragm motoneurons were presumably labeled, a large fraction (28-75%) of the infected hypothalamic neurons contained orexin-A. In the same cases, 6-33% of rabies-infected hypothalamic cells contained MCH. However, in animals with more extensive infection, where rabies had presumably passed transneuronally through more synapses, the fraction of infected cells that contained orexin-A was lower. The findings from these experiments thus support the notion that hypothalamic influences on breathing are substantially mediated through orexins or MCH.
The hippocampal formation is a highly plastic brain region that is sensitive to stress. It receives extensive noradrenergic projections, and noradrenaline is released in the hippocampus in response to stressor exposure. The hippocampus expresses particularly high levels of the alpha(1D) adrenergic receptor (ADR) and we have previously demonstrated that alpha(1d) ADR mRNA expression in the rat hippocampus is modulated by corticosterone. One of the defining features of a stress response is activation of the hypothalamic pituitary adrenal (HPA) axis, resulting in the release of corticosterone from the adrenal glands. However, the effect of stress on hippocampal expression of alpha(1d) ADR mRNA has not been determined. In this study, male rats were exposed to inescapable tail shock, loud noise or restraint, and the effect on alpha(1d) ADR mRNA expression in the hippocampus was determined by semi-quantitative in situ hybridization. All three stressors resulted in a rapid upregulation of alpha(1d) ADR mRNA in the dentate gyrus, with expression peaking at approximately 90min after the start of the stressor. Physical activity has previously been reported to counteract some of the effects of stress that occur within the dentate gyrus. However, 6weeks of voluntary wheel running in rats did not prevent the restraint stress-induced increase in alpha(1d) ADR mRNA expression in the dentate gyrus. Although the function of the alpha(1D) ADR in the dentate gyrus is not known, these data provide further evidence for a close interaction between stress and the noradrenergic system in the hippocampus.


Wound healing is a complex process involving intrinsic dermal and epidermal cells, and infiltrating macrophages and leukocytes. Excessive oxidative stress and associated inflammatory processes can impair wound healing, and antioxidants have been reported to improve wound healing in animal models and human subjects. Uric acid (UA) is an efficient free radical scavenger, but has a very low solubility and poor tissue penetrability. We recently developed novel UA analogs with increased solubility and excellent free radical-scavenging properties and demonstrated their ability to protect neural cells against oxidative damage. Here we show that the uric acid analog (6, 8 dithio-UA, but not equimolar concentrations of UA or 1, 7 dimethyl-UA) modified the behaviors of cultured vascular endothelial cells, keratinocytes and fibroblasts in ways consistent with enhancement of the wound healing functions of all three cell types. We further show that 6, 8 dithio-UA significantly accelerates the wound healing process when applied topically (once daily) to full-thickness wounds in mice. Levels of Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase were increased in wound tissue from mice treated with 6, 8 dithio-UA compared to vehicle-treated mice, suggesting that the UA analog enhances endogenous cellular antioxidant defenses. These results support an adverse role for oxidative stress in wound healing and tissue repair, and provide a rationale for the development of UA analogs in the treatment of wounds and for modulation of angiogenesis in other pathological conditions.
Failure to recognize that many standard control rats and mice used in biomedical research are sedentary, obese, glucose intolerant, and on a trajectory to premature death may confound data interpretation and outcomes of human studies. Fundamental aspects of cellular physiology, vulnerability to oxidative stress, inflammation, and associated diseases are among the many biological processes affected by dietary energy intake and exercise. Although overfed sedentary rodents may be reasonable models for the study of obesity in humans, treatments shown to be efficacious in these animal models may prove ineffective or exhibit novel side effects in active, normal-weight subjects.
Cannabis is the most widely used illicit drug in the United States. There is ample evidence that cannabis use has a heritable component, yet the genes underlying cannabis use disorders are yet to be completely identified. This study's aims were to map susceptibility loci for cannabis use and dependence and two narrower cannabis-related phenotypes of &quot;craving&quot; and &quot;withdrawal&quot; using a family study design. Participants were 2,524 adults participating in the University of California San Francisco (UCSF) Family Alcoholism Study. DSM-IV diagnoses of cannabis dependence, as well as indices of cannabis craving and withdrawal, were obtained using a modified version of the Semi-Structured Assessment for the Genetics of Alcoholism (SSAGA). Genotypes were determined for a panel of 791 microsatellite polymorphisms. Multipoint variance component LOD scores were obtained using SOLAR. Genome-wide significance for linkage (LOD &gt; 3.0) was not found for the DSM-IV cannabis dependence diagnosis; however, linkage analyses of cannabis &quot;craving&quot; and the cannabis withdrawal symptom of &quot;nervous, tense, restless, or irritable&quot; revealed five sites with LOD scores over 3.0 on chromosomes 1, 3, 6, 7, and 9. These results identify new regions of the genome associated with cannabis use phenotypes as well as corroborate the importance of several chromosome regions highlighted in previous linkage analyses for other substance dependence phenotypes.
We designed a semi-structured questionnaire for the introspective evaluation of inner experience of participants undergoing functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) in the resting state. This resting state questionnaire (ReSQ) consists of 62 items organized by five main types of mental activity: visual mental imagery (IMAG); inner language (LANG), split into two subtypes, inner speech (SPEE) and auditory mental imagery (AUDI); somatosensory awareness (SOMA); inner musical experience (MUSI); and mental manipulation of numbers (NUMB). For IMAG and LANG, additional questions estimated association of such activities with ongoing learning, retrospective memories, or prospective thoughts. Using a 0-100% scale, the participant quantitatively rated the proportion of time spent in each mental activity during the resting state fMRI acquisition. A total of 180 healthy volunteers completed the ReSQ immediately after being scanned with fMRI while at rest. Of these, 66% exhibited dominance of a type of mental activity at rest (IMAG: 35%; LANG: 17%; SOMA: 7%; MUSI: 6%; NUMB: 1%). A majority of participants reported either retrospective memories (82%) or prospective thoughts (78%), with 58% of participants reporting both in at least one type of mental activity. Thoughts related to ongoing learning were low (37% of participants). The present results are consistent with those of previous studies investigating inner experience in a natural environment. In conclusion, we provide a robust and easy-to-implement tool for the exploration of mental activities during rest of healthy participants undergoing fMRI. This tool relies on normative data acquired from a 180-participant sample balanced for sex and handedness.
Once they have differentiated, cells retain their individual character and repress genes that are specifically expressed in other cell lineages, but how alternative fate choice is restricted during and/or after differentiation remains unclear. In the mammalian central nervous system, neurons, astrocytes, and oligodendrocytes are generated throughout life from common tripotent neural progenitor cells (NPCs). Bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) are well-known astrocyte-inducing cytokines. We show here that the expression of a transcriptional repressor, RE1 silencer of transcription (REST)/neuron-restrictive silencer factor (NRSF), is up-regulated and sustained by BMP signal activation in the course of astrocytic differentiation of NPCs, and restricts neuronal differentiation. We further show that, in differentiated astrocytes, endogenous REST/NRSF associates with various neuronal genes and that disruption of its function resulted in their derepression, thereby explaining how ectopic neuronal gene expression is prevented in cells with astrocytic traits. Collectively, our results suggest that REST/NRSF functions as a molecular regulator of the nonneuronal phenotype in astrocytes.
Glutamate receptors of the AMPA-type mediate fast excitatory synaptic transmission in the central nervous system and play key roles in synaptic plasticity. The binding of these receptors to a variety of proteins is known to regulate their targeting to the synapse and consequently to modulate synaptic strength, as well as to modify receptor characteristics. In this study, a proteomic screening was conducted in order to identify new binding partners for GluR4 AMPA receptor subunit. Immunoprecipitation of GluR4 and associated proteins was performed using rat cerebellum lysates and an heterologous systems overexpressing GluR4 AMPA receptor subunit. Isolated immuno-complexes were resolved by 1-D SDS-PAGE, and analyzed by liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). This approach led to the identification of several interactors, most of which are novel AMPA receptor partners, namely, cytoskeleton proteins, motor proteins, RNA processing proteins which are part of neuronal RNA granules, and kinases, among others. This study unravels new constituents of the macromolecular complex of long-form calcium-permeable AMPA receptors.
Sepsis is characterized by a systemic inflammatory response of the immune system against an infection, presenting with hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis dysfunction, behavior alterations, and high mortality. In this study, we aimed to evaluate the effects of dexamethasone on mortality, anhedonia, circulating corticosterone and adrenocorticotropin hormone (ACTH) levels, body and adrenal gland weight, and aversive memory in sepsis survivor rats. Male Wistar rats underwent sham operation or cecal ligation and perforation (CLP) procedure. Rats subjected to CLP were treated with &quot;basic support&quot; and dexamethasone (at 0.2 and 2mg/kg daily for 7 days after CLP, intraperitonially) or saline. After 10 days of sepsis procedure, it was evaluated aversive memory, sweet food consumption, and body and adrenal gland weight. Serum and plasma were also obtained. It was observed that low dose dexamethasone reverted anhedonia, normalized adrenal gland and body weight, corticosterone and ACTH levels, and decreased mortality and avoidance memory impairment, demonstrating that low doses of dexamethasone for moderate periods may be beneficial for sepsis treatment and its sequelae-depressive-like parameters and memory impairment.
Intracellular accumulation of filamentous alpha-synuclein (alpha-Syn) aggregates to form Lewy bodies is a pathologic hallmark of Parkinson's disease. To determine whether mitochondrial impairment plays a role in the accumulation of alpha-Syn oligomer, we used 3D5 cell culture model of human neuronal type whereby conditional overexpression of wild-type alpha-Syn via the tetracycline-off (TetOff) induction mechanism results in formation of inclusions that exhibit many characteristics of Lewy bodies. In the present study, we compromised mitochondrial function in 3D5 cells by using shRNA to knockdown peroxisome-proliferator activated receptor gamma coactivator-1alpha (PGC-1alpha), a key regulator of mitochondrial biogenesis and cellular energy metabolism and found that PGC-1alpha suppression at both protein and mRNA levels results in alpha-Syn accumulation (i.e. monomeric and oligomeric species in the TetOff-induced cells and monomeric only in the non-induced). These changes were accompanied with reduced mitochondrial potential as well as decreased levels of AKT, GSK3beta (total and Ser(9)-phosphorylated) and p53 that are important for cell survival. The extent to which these proteins decreased following PGC-1alpha knockdown, in contrast to what was demonstrable with the viability assay, is greater in the induced than the non-induced. Together these findings indicate that such knockdown increases the propensity to accumulate alpha-Syn oligomers, but the accumulation appears to have very little toxic impact to the neuronal cells.
Buspirone, a 5-HT (5-hydroxytryptamine, serotonin)(1A) partial agonist, is being used as an anxiolytic drug. The mechanism of action is explained by an effect on the 5-HT system. The main source of 5-HT in the forebrain is the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN). However, there are also other populations of non-5-HT neurons in the DRN. Here, we investigated the effect of acute and chronic buspirone treatments on the 5-HT and non-5-HT cells, the neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) cells, in the DRN. Rats received either an acute or chronic administration of buspirone or saline. Hereafter, the brains were processed for 5-HT, nNOS, and TH immunohistochemistry. We found that acute and chronic buspirone treatments significantly lowered the mean optical density of nNOS in the DRN as compared to controls. Meanwhile only the chronic buspirone treatment reduced the mean density of 5-HT and TH immunoreactivity but not the acute buspirone as compared to saline treated animals. Our findings suggest that buspirone treatment affects not only the intracellular content of 5-HT but also nNOS and TH. Therefore, the cellular effect of buspirone is more complex than thought.
Neuronal losses are observed in the brain after neonatal hypoxia-ischemia (HI) however few studies have examined the effects of HI on specific neuronal phenotypes and their possible contribution to behavioural outcomes. In the present study we examined whether postnatal day 3 (P3) HI alters numbers of corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) and neuropeptide-Y (NPY) neurons in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN), the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST) and the amygdala, 1 (P10) and 6 (P45) weeks after P3 HI. A significant reduction in the number of CRF-positive neurons in the PVN, central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA) and BNST ipsilateral to the carotid ligation 1 and 6 weeks after P3 HI was observed. There was also a significant reduction in the number of NPY-positive neurons in the PVN, amygdala and BNST ipsilateral to the carotid ligation 1 week after P3 HI. However after 6 weeks, only the number of PVN NPY-positive neurons decreased significantly. At 6 weeks post-insult, the number of CeA CRF-positive neurons was inversely associated with locomotor activity and exploratory behaviour in an open field. In contrast, no significant correlations between neuronal counts and early neurodevelopment tests performed on P10 were observed. Thus after P3 HI persistent losses of CRF- and NPY-positive neurons occur and the loss of CeA CRF neurons may provide a central anatomical mechanism underlying neurobehavioural deficits observed 6 weeks after P3 HI.
Tryptophan depletion techniques are effective in reducing central serotonergic function and have been used to investigate its role in mood and cognition. In the present study a tryptophan-free diet was fed to Lister-hooded male rats chronically for 21 days to investigate the effect of lowering central serotonin concentration on cognition using the novel object-recognition paradigm. Chronically tryptophan-depleted rats had impaired object-recognition memory; this was accompanied by a reduction in central serotonin of 40-50% in the hippocampus, frontal cortex and striatum. In a subsequent experiment, the atypical antipsychotic, risperidone (0.2 mg/kg), but not the typical antipsychotic, haloperidol (0.1 mg/kg), administered i.p. 30 min prior to the retention test, significantly attenuated the chronic tryptophan depletion impairment. These data show that chronic lowering of central serotonin is associated with impaired cognitive performance, and that this can be reversed by the atypical antipsychotic, risperidone.
Anabolic androgenic steroids (AAS) use by adolescents is steadily increasing. Adolescence involves remodeling of steroid-sensitive neural circuits that mediate social behaviors, and previous studies using animal models document effects of AAS on male social behaviors. The present experiments tested whether AAS have persistent and more pronounced behavioral consequences when drug exposure occurs during adolescence as compared to exposure in adulthood. Male Syrian hamsters were injected daily for 14 days with either vehicle or an AAS cocktail containing testosterone cypionate (2 mg/kg), nandrolone decanoate (2 mg/kg), and boldenone undecylenate (1 mg/kg), either during adolescence (27-41 days of age) or adulthood (63-77 days of age). As adults, subjects were tested two or four weeks after the last injection for either sexual behavior with a receptive female or male-male agonistic behavior in a resident-intruder test. Compared with vehicle-treated males, AAS-treated males, regardless of age of treatment, displayed fewer long intromissions and a significant increase in latency to the first long intromission, indicative of reduced potential to reach sexual satiety. Increased aggression was observed in males exposed to AAS compared with males treated with vehicle, independently of age of AAS treatment. However, unlike hamsters exposed to AAS in adulthood, hamsters exposed to AAS during adolescence did not display any submissive or risk-assessment behaviors up to 4 weeks after discontinuation of AAS treatment. Thus, AAS have long-lasting effects on male sexual and agonistic behaviors, with AAS exposure during adolescence resulting in a more pronounced reduction in submissive behavior compared to AAS exposure in adulthood.
Most theories describe motivation using basic terminology (drive, 'wanting', goal, pleasure, etc.) that fails to inform well about the psychological mechanisms controlling its expression. This leads to a conception of motivation as a mere psychological state 'emerging' from neurophysiological substrates. However, the involvement of motivation in a large number of behavioural parameters (triggering, intensity, duration, and directedness) and cognitive abilities (learning, memory, decision, etc.) suggest that it should be viewed as an information processing system. The uncertainty processing theory (UPT) presented here suggests that motivation is the set of cognitive processes allowing organisms to extract information from the environment by reducing uncertainty about the occurrence of psychologically significant events. This processing of information is shown to naturally result in the highlighting of specific stimuli. The UPT attempts to solve three major problems: (i) how motivations can affect behaviour and cognition so widely, (ii) how motivational specificity for objects and events can result from nonspecific neuropharmacological causal factors (such as mesolimbic dopamine), and (iii) how motivational interactions can be conceived in psychological terms, irrespective of their biological correlates. The UPT is in keeping with the conceptual tradition of the incentive salience hypothesis while trying to overcome the shortcomings inherent to this view.
We have previously shown that immunotherapy directed against the protein Nogo-A leads to recovery on a skilled forelimb reaching task in rats after sensorimotor cortex stroke, which correlated with axonal and dendritic plasticity. Here we investigated anti-Nogo-A immunotherapy as an intervention to improve performance on a spatial memory task in aged rats after stroke, and whether cognitive recovery was correlated with structural plasticity. Aged rats underwent a unilateral distal permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion and one week later were treated with an anti-Nogo-A or control antibody. Nine weeks post-stroke, treated rats and normal aged rats were tested on the Morris water maze task. Following testing rats were sacrificed and brains processed for the Golgi-Cox method. Hippocampal CA3 and CA1 pyramidal and dentate gyrus granule cells were examined for dendritic length and number of branch segments, and CA3 and CA1 pyramidal cells were examined for spine density and morphology. Anti-Nogo-A immunotherapy given one week following stroke in aged rats improved performance on the reference memory portion of the Morris water maze task. However, this improved performance was not correlated with structural changes in the hippocampal neurons examined. Our finding of improved performance on the Morris water maze in aged rats after stroke and treatment with anti-Nogo-A immunotherapy demonstrates the promising therapeutic potential for anti-Nogo-A immunotherapy to treat cognitive deficits after stroke. The identification of sites of axonal and dendritic plasticity in the aged brain after stroke and treatment with anti-Nogo-A immunotherapy is still under investigation.
The olfactory function in humans is characterized by wide variability between individuals. One of the prominent factors that contribute to this plasticity is early exposure. The present study examined how brain activity is modulated by such olfactory experience. To this end, two groups of people living in France but originating from different cultures (&quot;European-French&quot; (EF, 18 subjects) vs. &quot;Algerian-French&quot; (AF, 19 subjects)) were tested, and their perceptual and physiological responses to the smells of mint (presumed to be experienced earlier in life by &quot;Algerian-French&quot; subjects) and of rose (control odorant) were compared. Neurophysiological responses were obtained in the form of chemosensory event-related potentials (CSERP). The results confirmed that the AF group was exposed to Mint tea earlier than the EF group. On the perceptual level, when asked to associate the smell of mint with objects or events retrieved from memory, the discourse of AF subjects included more &quot;experience-oriented&quot; associations than that of EF subjects. This was associated with longer P2 latency in CSERPs in response to the smell of mint in the AF group. These findings highlight the plasticity of behavioral and neural olfactory processes as a result of differential lifetime exposure.
Endogenous opioids are known to modulate motivated behaviors. Male zebra finches produce a highly motivated behavior (directed song) to court females and also sing in isolation (undirected song). We found that adult male zebra finches sang significantly fewer directed and undirected songs after administration of low doses (2.5 mg/kg body weight) of the general opioid antagonist naloxone, even though the order of syllables in songs was not altered. Surprisingly, high doses of naloxone (10 mg/kg body weight) dramatically decreased the production of undirected songs but had no significant effects on directed songs. There were no changes in the number of calls during directed or undirected song, movement, stereotyped behaviors including pecking and preening, feeding or drinking behaviors after naloxone administration. We also found that treating zebra finches with naloxone led to a decrease in tonality (goodness of pitch), frequency and amplitude modulation and an increase in the length of intersyllable intervals. Our results suggest that the opioid system can differentially modulate directed and undirected song as well as the acoustic characteristics of birdsong, perhaps by acting on different components of the song control system.
The zebrafish (Danio rerio) is rapidly becoming a popular model species in behavioral neuroscience research. Zebrafish behavior is robustly affected by environmental and pharmacological manipulations, and can be examined using exploration-based paradigms, paralleled by analysis of endocrine (cortisol) stress responses. Discontinuation of various psychotropic drugs evokes withdrawal in both humans and rodents, characterized by increased anxiety. Sensitivity of zebrafish to drugs of abuse has been recently reported in the literature. Here we examine the effects of ethanol, diazepam, morphine and caffeine withdrawal on zebrafish behavior. Overall, discontinuation of ethanol, diazepam and morphine produced anxiogenic-like behavioral or endocrine responses, demonstrating the utility of zebrafish in translational research of withdrawal syndrome.
Perinatal asphyxia is one of the major causes of neuronal injury and impaired development in infants. We recently have shown that a brief episode of experimental fetal asphyxia (FA) can provoke an endogenous neuroprotection against subsequent severe perinatal asphyxia (SPA). The long-lasting functional consequences of FA preconditioning are not clear yet. The aim of the study was to determine if FA preconditioning can provide a long-lasting behavioral protection against SPA. FA was induced, as a preconditioning stimulus, by clamping the uterine vasculature for 30 min on E17. At birth, SPA was induced by placing the uterine horns in a water bath for 19 min. At 6 months of age, functional outcome was assessed using different behavioral tests: the open field for locomotor activity, the elevated zero maze for anxiety-related behavior, the forced swim test for depression-related behavior and the object recognition task for cognition. Data showed that FA preconditioning improved postnatal mortality after SPA. At the age of 6 months, the total distance moved in the open field and elevated zero maze was significantly less in the SPA group compared to the control groups. In addition, cognitive performance in the object recognition task was impaired in the SPA offspring compared to the control groups. Most importantly, FA preconditioning was able to preserve both locomotor activity and cognition function. In conclusion, FA preconditioning induces a long-lasting, functional protection against SPA. Therefore, this model seems to offer good opportunities for the identification and characterization of the underlying mechanisms of preconditioning.
Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) is able to generate a long-term increase or decrease in the neuronal excitability that can modulate cognitive tasks, similar to repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation. The aim of this study was to explore the effects of tDCS on a language task in young healthy subjects. Anodal, cathodal and sham tDCS were applied to the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) before two picture naming experiments, a preliminary study (i.e., experiment 1) and a main study (i.e., experiment 2). The results show that anodal tDCS of the left DLPFC improves naming performance, speeding up verbal reaction times after the end of the stimulation, whereas cathodal stimulation had no effect. We hypothesize that the cerebral network dedicated to lexical retrieval processing is facilitated by anodal tDCS to the left DLPFC. Although the mechanisms responsible for facilitation are not yet clear, the results presented herein implicate a facilitation lasting beyond the end of the stimulation that imply cortical plasticity mechanisms. The opportunity to non-invasively interact with the functioning of these plasticity mechanisms will surely open new and promising scenarios in language studies in basic and clinical neuroscience fields.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common cause of dementia affecting the elderly. Treatment for effective cure of this complex neurodegenerative disease does not yet exist. In AD, otherwise soluble, monomeric form of amyloid beta (Abeta) peptide converts into toxic, fibrillar form rich in beta-sheet content. Several immunological approaches that prevent this conversion of Abeta into pathological form or that accelerate its clearance are being actively pursued worldwide. As part of these attempts, we report here, the design and characterization of a non-amyloidogenic homologue of Abeta (Abeta-KEK). We demonstrate that this peptide is helical in nature and retains the immunoneutralizing epitopes of native Abeta. More importantly, Fab fragments of the polyclonal anti-Abeta-KEK antibodies interfere with formation of Abeta fibrils as well as dissociate the preformed Abeta aggregates in vitro. These results suggest that non-amyloidogenic Abeta-KEK may serve as a safer alternative vaccine for Alzheimer's disease.





Congenital myotonic dystrophy (CDM) is associated with markedly expanded CTG repeats in DMPK. The presence of numerous immature fibers with peripheral halo is a characteristic feature of CDM muscles together with hypotrophy of type 1 fibers. Smaller type 1 fibers with no structural abnormality are a definitive criterion of congenital fiber type disproportion (CFTD). Nonetheless, we recently came across a patient who was genetically confirmed as CDM, but had been earlier diagnosed as CFTD when he was an infant. In this study, we performed clinical, pathological, and genetic analyses in infantile patients pathologically diagnosed as CFTD to evaluate CDM patients indistinguishable from CFTD. We examined CTG repeat expansion in DMPK in 28 infantile patients pathologically diagnosed as CFTD. Mutation screening of ACTA1 and TPM3 was performed, and we compared clinical and pathological findings of 20 CDM patients with those of the other cohorts. We identified four (14%) patients with CTG expansion in DMPK. ACTA1 mutation was identified in four (14%), and TPM3 mutation was found in two (7%) patients. Fiber size disproportion was more prominent in patients with ACTA1 or TPM3 mutations as compared to CFTD patients with CTG expansion. A further three patients among 20 CDM patients showed pathological findings similar to CFTD. From our results, CDM should be excluded in CFTD patients.

Evidence is accumulating that one of the strongest predictors of retinopathy of prematurity (ROP), in addition to low gestational age, is poor weight gain during the first weeks of life. In infants born preterm, the retina is not fully vascularised. The more premature the child, the larger is the avascular area. In response to hypoxia, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is secreted. For appropriate VEGF-induced vessel growth, sufficient levels of insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I) in serum are necessary. IGF-I is a peptide, related to nutrition supply, which is essential for both pre- and post-natal general growth as well as for growth of the retinal vasculature. In prematurely born infants, serum levels are closely related to gestational age and are lower in more prematurely born infants. At preterm birth the placental supply of nutrients is lost, growth factors are suddenly reduced and general as well as vascular growth slows down or ceases. In addition, the relative hyperoxia of the extra-uterine milieu, together with supplemental oxygen, causes a regression of already developed retinal vessels. Postnatal growth retardation is a major problem in very preterm infants. Both poor early weight gain and low serum levels of IGF-I during the first weeks/months of life have been found to be correlated with severity of ROP. Conclusion: This review will focus on the mechanisms leading to ROP by exploring factors responsible for poor early weight gain and abnormal vascularisation of the eye of the preterm infant.
Evidence for genetic linkage to alcohol and other substance dependence phenotypes in areas of the human and mouse genome have now been reported with some consistency across studies. However, the question remains as to whether the genes that underlie the alcohol-related behaviors seen in mice are the same as those that underlie the behaviors observed in human alcoholics. The aims of the current set of analyses were to identify a small set of alcohol-related phenotypes in human and in mouse by which to compare quantitative trait locus (QTL) data between the species using syntenic mapping. These analyses identified that QTLs for alcohol consumption and acute and chronic alcohol withdrawal on distal mouse chromosome 1 are syntenic to a region on human chromosome 1q where a number of studies have identified QTLs for alcohol-related phenotypes. Additionally, a QTL on human chromosome 15 for alcohol dependence severity/withdrawal identified in two human studies was found to be largely syntenic with a region on mouse chromosome 9, where two groups have found QTLs for alcohol preference. In both of these cases, while the QTLs were found to be syntenic, the exact phenotypes between humans and mice did not necessarily overlap. These studies demonstrate how this technique might be useful in the search for genes underlying alcohol-related phenotypes in multiple species. However, these findings also suggest that trying to match exact phenotypes in humans and mice may not be necessary or even optimal for determining whether similar genes influence a range of alcohol-related behaviors between the two species.
If people are brought into the laboratory and given alcohol, there are pronounced differences among individuals in many responses to the drug. Some participants in alcohol challenge protocols show a cluster of 'low level of responses to alcohol' determined by observing post-drinking-related changes in subjective, motor and physiological effects at a given dose level. Those individuals characterized as having low level of response (LR) to alcohol have been shown to be at increased risk for a lifetime diagnosis of alcohol dependence (AD), and this relationship between low LR and AD appears to be in part genetic. LR to alcohol is an area where achieving greater consilience between the human and the rodent phenotypes would seem to be highly likely. However, despite extensive data from both human and rodent studies, few attempts have been made to evaluate the human and animal data systematically in order to understand which aspects of LR appear to be most directly comparable across species and thus the most promising for further study. We review four general aspects of LR that could be compared between humans and laboratory animals: (1) behavioral measures of subjective intoxication; (2) body sway; (3) endocrine responses; and (4) stimulant, autonomic and electrophysiological responses. None of these aspects of LR provide completely face-valid direct comparisons across species. Nevertheless, one of the most replicated findings in humans is the low subjective response, but, as it may reflect either aversively valenced and/or positively valenced responses to alcohol as usually assessed, it is unclear which rodent responses are analogous. Stimulated heart rate appears to be consistent in animal and human studies, although at-risk subjects appear to be more rather than less sensitive to alcohol using this measure. The hormone and electrophysiological data offer strong possibilities of understanding the neurobiological mechanisms, but the rodent data in particular are rather sparse and unsystematic. Therefore, we suggest that more effort is still needed to collect data using refined measures designed to be more directly comparable in humans and animals. Additionally, the genetically mediated mechanisms underlying this endophenotype need to be characterized further across species.

Secondary HIV prevention, or &quot;positive prevention,&quot; is concerned with reducing HIV transmission risk behavior and optimizing the health and quality of life of people living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA). The association between mental health and HIV transmission risk (i.e., sexual risk and poor medication adherence) is well established, although most of this evidence is observational. Further, a number of efficacious mental health treatments are available for PLWHA yet few positive prevention interventions integrate mental health treatment. We propose that mental health treatment, including behavioral and pharmacologic interventions, can lead to reductions in HIV transmission risk behavior and should be a core component of secondary HIV prevention. We present a conceptual model and recommendations to guide future research on the effect of mental health treatment on HIV transmission risk behavior among PLWHA.
The relationship between intimate partner violence (IPV) and HIV risk is well documented, but few interventions jointly address these problems. We developed and examined the feasibility of an intervention to reduce HIV risk behaviors among 97 women seeking services for IPV from a community-based NGO in Johannesburg, South Africa. Two versions of the intervention (a 6-session group and a 1-day workshop) were implemented, both focusing on HIV prevention strategies integrated with issues of gender and power imbalance. Attendance was excellent in both intervention groups. Assessments were conducted at baseline, post-intervention and two-month follow-up to demonstrate the feasibility of an intervention trial. Women in both groups reported reductions in HIV misperceptions and trauma symptoms, and increases in HIV knowledge, risk reduction intentions, and condom use self-efficacy. The 6-session group showed greater improvements in HIV knowledge and decreases in HIV misperceptions in comparison to the 1-day workshop. The study demonstrated the feasibility and potential benefit of providing HIV prevention intervention to women seeking assistance for IPV.

A recent report of the feasibility of simultaneous PET/MR imaging of the healthy human brain has sparked excitement in the field of neuroimaging because of its potential influence and utility in clinical neuroscience research. The aim of this communication is to discuss the benefits and current drawbacks of the hybrid imaging system and to highlight some perspectives of the new technique for brain neoplasms.


Ethanol exerts complex effects on human physiology and health. Ethanol is not only addictive, but it is also a fetal teratogen, an adult neurotoxin, and an etiologic agent in hepatic and cardiovascular disease, inflammation, bone loss, and fracture susceptibility. A large number of genes and signaling mechanisms have been implicated in ethanol's deleterious effects leading to the suggestion that ethanol is a &quot;dirty drug.&quot; An important question is, are there cellular &quot;master-switches&quot; that can explain these pleiotropic effects of ethanol? MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have been recently identified as master regulators of the cellular transcriptome and proteome. miRNAs play an increasingly appreciated and crucial role in shaping the differentiation and function of tissues and organs in both health and disease. This critical review discusses new evidence showing that ethanol-sensitive miRNAs are indeed regulatory master-switches. More specifically, miRNAs control the development of tolerance, a crucial component of ethanol addiction. Other drugs of abuse also target some ethanol-sensitive miRNAs suggesting that common biochemical mechanisms underlie addiction. This review also discusses evidence that miRNAs mediate several ethanol pathologies, including disruption of neural stem cell proliferation and differentiation in the exposed fetus, gut leakiness that contributes to endotoxemia and alcoholic liver disease, and possibly also hepatocellular carcinomas and other gastrointestinal cancers. Finally, this review provides a perspective on emerging investigations into potential roles of miRNAs as mediators of ethanol's effects on inflammation and fracture healing, as well as the potential for miRNAs as diagnostic biomarkers and as targets for therapeutic interventions for alcohol-related disorders.



Study participant dropout compromises clinical trials by reducing statistical power and potentially biasing findings. We use data from a trial of treatments to delay the progression of mild cognitive impairment to Alzheimer disease (AD) [NEJM 2005;352 (23):79 to 88] to determine predictors of study participant dropout and inform the design and implementation of future trials. Time to study discontinuation was modeled by proportional hazards regression with censoring at incident dementia or trial completion. Of 769 participants, 230 (30%) discontinued prematurely. Risk of dropout was higher among nonwhites [hazard ratio (HR) 2.1, P=0.0007], participants with less than college education (HR=1.6, P=0.02), participants with a Hamilton Depression score of 6 or more (HR=1.3, P=0.04), unmarried males (HR=2.1 relative to married males, P=0.003) and participants recruited by commercial clinical sites (HR=2.2 relative to participants recruited by NIA-funded AD research centers, P&lt;0.0001). A trial using commercial sites with the discontinuation rates and incident dementia event rates experienced in this trial would require 80% more participants than a comparably powered trial using NIA-funded AD research center sites. Targeted retention efforts and utilization of academic sites could substantively improve the statistical power and validity of future clinical trials of cognitively impaired elderly.



Pseudoxanthoma elasticum (PXE) is a systemic disorder affecting elastic tissues most markedly in skin, retina, and blood vessels. It is caused by mutations in the ABCC6 gene and is transmitted in an autosomal recessive fashion. In 1994 a new classification system for PXE was published as the result of a consensus conference. Since then the ABCC6 gene has been discovered. We propose that there is a need for a classification system incorporating all relevant systemic symptoms and signs, based on standardized clinical, histological, and molecular biological examination techniques. We re-evaluated the histopathologic PXE signs and propose a classification system with unambiguous criteria leading to a consistent diagnosis of definitive, probable, or possible PXE world-wide. We put this proposed classification forward to encourage further debate on the diagnosis of this multi-organ disorder.
We report on two siblings doubly heterozygous for null mutations in the recently identified AGS5 gene SAMHD1. The older female child showed mild intellectual disability with microcephaly. Her brother demonstrated a significant spastic paraparesis with normal intellect and head size. Both children had an unclassified chronic inflammatory skin condition with chilblains, and recurrent mouth ulcers. One child had a chronic progressive deforming arthropathy of the small and large joints, with secondary contractures. This family illustrate the remarkable phenotypic diversity accruing from mutations in genes associated with Aicardi-Goutires syndrome (AGS). The association of arthropathy with SAMHD1 mutations highlights a phenotypic overlap of AGS with familial autoinflammatory disorders such as chronic infantile neurological cutaneous and articular syndrome (CINCA). This family therefore illustrate the need to consider mutation analysis of SAMHD1 in non-specific inflammatory phenotypes of childhood. We propose that arthropathy with progressive contractures should now be considered part of the spectrum of Aicardi-Goutires syndrome because of SAMHD1 mutations.
Progastrin and insulin-like growth factors (IGFs) stimulate hyperproliferation of intestinal epithelial cells (IECs) via endocrine/paracrine routes; hyperproliferation is a known risk factor for colon carcinogenesis. In the present study, inhibitory potency of curcumin in the presence or absence of progastrin and/or IGF-II was examined. Progastrin and IGF-II significantly increased proliferation of an immortalized IEC cell line, IEC-18, whereas curcumin decreased the proliferation in a dose-dependent manner. IGF-II was significantly more effective than progastrin in reversing antiproliferative effects of curcumin and reversed proapoptotic effects of curcumin by &gt;80%; progastrin was relatively ineffective toward reversing proapoptotic effects of curcumin. IEC-18 clones were generated to overexpress either progastrin (IEC-PG) or hIGF-II (IEC-IGF). Proliferation of IEC-PG and IEC-IGF clones was increased, compared with that of control clones. Curcumin significantly reduced proliferation of IEC-PG, but not IEC-IGF, clones. Similarly, a human colon cancer cell line, Caco-2 (which expresses autocrine IGF-II), was relatively resistant to inhibitory effects of curcumin. However, Caco-2 cells treated with anti-IGF-II-antibodies were rendered sensitive to inhibitory effects of curcumin. Significant differences in inhibitory potency of curcumin against PG- vs. IGF-II-stimulated growth of IEC-18 cells were not reflected by differences in curcumin-mediated inhibition of activated (phosphorylated) ERKs/IKK(alpha/beta)/p65NF-kappaB and c-Src in wild-type (wt)IEC-18 cells, in response to the two growth factors. Surprisingly, curcumin was almost ineffective in reducing IGF-II-stimulated activation of p38MAPK but significantly reduced progastrin-stimulated phosphorylation of p38. Treatment with a p38MAPK inhibitor resulted in loss of protective effects of IGF-II against inhibitory effects of curcumin. These novel findings suggest that growth factor profile of patients and tumors may dictate inhibitory potency of curcumin and that combination of curcumin + p38MAPK inhibitor may be required for reducing hyperproliferative or tumorigenic response of IECs to endocrine and autocrine IGFs.

Synapsin 2 proteins are key elements of the synaptic machinery and still hold the centre stage in neuroscience research. Although fully sequenced at the nucleic acid level in mouse and rat, structural information on amino acid sequences and post-translational modifications (PTMs) is limited. Knowledge on protein sequences and PTMs, however, is mandatory for several purposes including conformational studies and the generation of antibodies. Hippocampal proteins from rat and mouse were extracted, run on two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and multi-enzyme digestion was carried out to generate peptides for mass spectrometrical analysis [nano-LC-ESI-(CID/ETD)-MS/MS]. As much as 12 synapsin 2 proteins (6 alpha and 6 beta isoforms) in the mouse and 13 synapsin 2 proteins (6 alpha and 7 beta isoforms) were observed in the rat. Protein sequences were highly identical to nucleic acid sequences, and only few amino acid exchanges probably representing polymorphisms or sequence conflicts were detected. Mouse and rat synapsins 2a differed in three amino acids, while rat and mouse synapsins 2b differed in two amino acids. As much as 13 phosphorylation sites were determined by MS/MS data in rat and mouse hippocampus and 5 were verified by phosphatase treatment. These findings are important for interpretation of previous results and design of future studies on synapsins.
Glycine receptors (GlyRs) in the nucleus accumbens (nAc) have recently been suggested to be involved in the reinforcing and dopamine-elevating properties of ethanol via a neuronal circuitry involving the VTA. Apart from ethanol, both glycine and taurine have the ability to modulate dopamine output via GlyRs in the same brain region. In the present study, we wanted to explore whether yet another endogenous ligand for the GlyR, beta-alanine, had similar effects. To this end, we monitored dopamine in the nAc by means of in vivo microdialysis and found that local perfusion of beta-alanine increased dopamine output. In line with previous observations investigating ethanol, glycine and taurine, the competitive GlyR antagonist strychnine completely blocked the dopamine elevation. The present results suggest that beta-alanine has the ability to modulate dopamine levels in the nAc via strychnine-sensitive GlyRs, and are consistent with previous studies suggesting the importance of this receptor for modulating dopamine output.
With longevity, postoperative cognitive decline in the elderly has emerged as a major health concern for which several factors have been implicated, one of the most recent being the role of anaesthetics. Interactions of anaesthetic agents and different targets have been studied at the molecular, cellular and structural anatomical levels. Recent in vitro nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy studies have shown that several anaesthetics act on the oligomerisation of amyloid beta peptide. Uncontrolled production, oligomerisation and deposition of amyloid beta peptide, with subsequent development of amyloid plaques, are fundamental steps in the generation of Alzheimer's disease. Amyloid beta peptide is naturally present in the central nervous system, and is found at higher tissue concentrations in the elderly. We argue that administering certain general anaesthetics to elderly patients may worsen amyloid beta peptide oligomerisation and deposition and thus increase the risk of developing postoperative cognitive dysfunction. The aim of this review is to highlight the clinical aspects of postoperative cognitive dysfunction and to find plausible links between possible anaesthetic effects and the molecular pathological mechanism of Alzheimer's disease. It is hoped that our hypothesis will stimulate further enquiry, especially triggering research into elucidating those anaesthetics that may be more suitable when cognitive dysfunction is a particular concern.

Insomnia is a disorder characterized by inability to sleep or a total lack of sleep, prevalence of which ranges from 10 to 15% among the general population with increased rates seen among older ages, female gender, White population and presence of medical or psychiatric illness. Yet this condition is still under-recognized, under-diagnosed, and under-treated. This article aims to review the operational definitions and management of chronic insomnia. A computerized search on PubMed carried from 1980 to January 2009 led to the summarization of the results. There are several strategies to manage chronic insomnia. To initiate treatment, it is necessary to define it and differentiate it from other co-morbid psychiatric disorders. Non-pharmacologic strategies such as stimulus control therapy and relaxation and cognitive therapies have the best effect sizes followed by sleep restriction, paradoxical intention and sleep hygiene education which have modest to less than modest effect sizes. Among pharmacotherapeutic agents, non-benzodiazepine hypnotics are the first line of management followed by benzodiazepines, amitryptiline and antihistaminics. However, adequate trials of combined behavior therapy and pharmacotherapy are the best course of management.
A major challenge in cancer immunotherapy is the identification of effective strategies for enhancing its clinical efficacy. One approach is based on adjuvants capable of breaking tolerance against tumor-associated antigens. Interferon-alpha(IFN-alpha), an antiviral cytokine with a long record of clinical use, has recently been shown to act as an effective adjuvant in cancer patients. Notably, a special interest is currently focused on the use of dendritic cells (DC) generated in the presence of IFN-alpha (IFN-DC) for the preparation of anticancer vaccines. An additional approach for enhancing the response to immunotherapy relies on its combination with chemotherapy. In fact, an ensemble of results from both studies in animal models and pilot clinical trials suggest that certain chemotherapeutic agents can act, under defined conditions, as strong adjuvants for enhancing the efficacy of immunotherapy. These results open new opportunities for designing mechanism-based combination therapies involving both chemotherapy and new-generation cancer vaccines, including IFN-DC-based vaccines.
Following stroke or traumatic damage, neuronal death via both necrosis and apoptosis causes loss of functions, including memory, sensory perception, and motor skills. As necrosis has the nature to expand, while apoptosis stops the cell death cascade in the brain, necrosis is considered to be a promising target for rapid treatment for stroke. We identified the nuclear protein, prothymosin alpha (ProTalpha) from the conditioned medium of serum-free culture of cortical neurons as a key protein-inhibiting necrosis. In the culture of cortical neurons in the serum-free condition without any supplements, ProTalpha inhibited the necrosis, but caused apoptosis. In the ischemic brain or retina, ProTalpha showed a potent inhibition of both necrosis and apoptosis. By use of anti-brain-derived neurotrophic factor or anti-erythropoietin IgG, we found that ProTalpha inhibits necrosis, but causes apoptosis, which is in turn inhibited by ProTalpha-induced neurotrophins under the condition of ischemia. From the experiment using anti-ProTalpha IgG or antisense oligonucleotide for ProTalpha, it was revealed that ProTalpha has a pathophysiological role in protecting neurons in stroke.
The opioid tetrapeptides endomorphins (EM)-1 and EM-2 are widely expressed in central nervous system and immune tissues of rats and humans. Their analgesic properties are well characterized but they also have anti-inflammatory properties. EM-1 significantly attenuated the onset of hindpaw inflammation in adjuvant-induced arthritis in rats. Immunohistochemical staining demonstrated the presence of EMs in T cells, macrophages, and fibroblasts in synovial tissues from patients with osteo- or rheumatoid arthritis (RA). In an ex vivo superfusion system, EM-1 potently inhibited the release of proinflammatory cytokines interleukin (IL)-6 and IL-8 from synovial tissues from patients with osteo- or RA. These results demonstrate that EMs are endogenously synthesized within human immune cells and have the potential to act as potent therapeutic agents in the treatment of chronic inflammatory disease. We discuss the clinical potential for EM analogues chemically modified to resist proteolytic degradation and identify modified protease-resistant analogues with enhanced bioactivity.

Evidence from well-designed clinical trials may guide clinicians, reduce regional variation, and lead to improved outcomes. Many physicians choose to ignore evidence-based practice guidelines. Using unproven therapies outside of a randomized trial slows recruitment in clinical trials that could yield information on clinical and economic efficacy. Using acute stroke therapy as an illustration, we present an ethical hierarchy for therapeutic decision making during medical emergencies. First, physicians should offer standard care. If no standard care option exists, the physician should consider enrollment in a randomized clinical trial. If no trial is appropriate, the physician should consider a nonrandomized registry, or consensus-based guidelines. Finally, only after considering the first 3 options, the physician should use best judgment based on previous personal experience and any published case series or anecdotes. Given the paucity of quality randomized clinical trial data for most medical decisions, the &quot;best judgment&quot; option will be used most frequently. Nevertheless, such a hierarchy is needed because of the limited time during medical emergencies for consideration of general principles of clinical decision making. There should be general agreement in advance as to the hierarchy to follow in selecting treatment for critically ill patients. Were more clinicians to follow this hierarchy, and choose to participate in clinical trials, the generation of new knowledge would accelerate, yielding rigorous data supporting or refuting the efficacy and safety of new interventions more quickly, thus benefiting far more patients over time.
Two cases of invasive myoepithelial carcinoma arising from the paranasal sinuses and invading the orbit are presented. Patient 1, a 53-year-old man, had a 3-month history of proptosis, pain and epiphora of the right eye. The second patient, a 24-year-old man, had for a week been complaining of protrusion of his left eye and of orbital pain. Computed tomography scan and magnetic resonance imaging revealed tumour masses in the frontal, ethmoidal and maxillary sinuses with invasion of the orbit and the frontal lobe. Biopsies from both cases showed spindle and epithelioid tumour cells. Mitotic figures were frequent. Immunohistochemical staining showed positive reaction for bcl-2, calponin, cytokeratins, CD99, S100, muscle-specific antigen, smooth muscle antigen and vimentin. The Ki-67 index was between 30-50% and 5-25%, respectively. Ultrastructurally, intermediate filaments, perinuclear tonofilaments and desmosomes were present. Based on these findings, a diagnosis of myoepithelial carcinoma of mixed cell type in both cases was evident. Both patients died shortly after the diagnosis was made even though both underwent radical surgery. Myoepithelial carcinoma of the paranasal sinuses is very rare and only six cases have been reported previously. We present the first two cases of myoepithelial carcinoma in the paranasal sinuses with invasion of the orbit. This is also the first report of myoepithelial carcinoma arising in the ethmoidal sinus.


A recent study suggested that neuroinflammation plays a major role in the pathogenesis of a number of neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease. Although the precise mechanism is obscure, dysregulation of the signaling transduction pathway in microglia may enhance inflammation, leading to synaptic dysfunction and ultimately to neuronal cell death. The expression and function of the P2X7 receptor (P2X7R), an ATP-gated ion channel abundantly expressed in microglia in the brain, is significantly up-regulated in the postmortem brain of Alzheimer's disease patients and various neurodegenerative disease animal models. This supports the role of the P2X7R pathway in the progression of neurodegeneration. Blocking P2X7R using brilliant blue G, a P2X7R antagonist that can cross the blood-brain barrier, has been shown to result in the amelioration of neuropathology in various animal models. Taken together, these results raise the possibility that the P2X7R signaling pathway could be a therapeutic target for treating various neurodegenerative diseases.
Many hypotheses have been raised regarding the pathophysiology of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Because amyloid beta peptide (Abeta) deposition in senile plaques appears as a late, nonspecific event, recent evidence points to tau phosphorylation and aggregation as the final common pathway in this multifactorial disease. Current approaches that provide evidence in favor of neuroimmunomodulation in AD and the roles of tau pathological modifications and aggregation into oligomers and filamentous forms are presented. We propose an integrative model on the pathogenesis of AD that includes several damage signals such as Abeta oligomers, oxygen free radicals, iron overload, homocysteine, cholesterol and LDL species. These activate microglia cells, releasing proinflammatory cytokines and producing neuronal degeneration and tau pathological modifications. Altered and aggregated forms of tau appear to act as a toxic stimuli contributing to neurodegeneration. Recent findings provide further support to the central role of tau in the pathogenesis of AD, so this protein has turned into a diagnostic and therapeutic target for this disease.


In a contour-grouping task, subjects decide whether contour elements belong to the same or different curves. Houtkamp, Spekreijse, and Roelfsema (2003) demonstrated that object-based attention spreads gradually over contour elements that have to be grouped in perception. Crundall, Dewhurst, and Underwood (2008) challenged this spreading-attention model and suggested that attention in the contour-grouping task is not object based but rather has the shape of a zoom lens that moves along the relevant curve. To distinguish between object-based and spatial attention, they changed the stimulus and measured the impact on performance. Subjects were not able to correct for changes at the start of the relevant curve toward the end of the trial. They suggested that attention did not stay at the beginning of the curve, in accordance with a moving zoom lens model. Here, we examine the task of Crundall et al. and find that subjects perceive the changes but fail to correct their response. By measuring change detection directly, we find that performance is much better for the start of the relevant curve than for an irrelevant curve, at all times. Our findings do not support the zoom lens model but provide further support for the spreading attention model.
The aim of the present review article is to guide the reader through portions of the human time perception, or temporal processing, literature. After distinguishing the main contemporary issues related to time perception, the article focuses on the main findings and explanations that are available in the literature on explicit judgments about temporal intervals. The review emphasizes studies that are concerned with the processing of intervals lasting a few milliseconds to several seconds and covers studies issuing from either a behavioral or a neuroscience approach. It also discusses the question of whether there is an internal clock (pacemaker counter or oscillator device) that is dedicated to temporal processing and reports the main hypotheses regarding the involvement of biological structures in time perception.


The social motivation hypothesis of autism posits that infants with autism do not experience social stimuli as rewarding, thereby leading to a cascade of potentially negative consequences for later development. While possible downstream effects of this hypothesis such as altered face and voice processing have been examined, there has not been a direct investigation of social reward processing in autism. Here we use functional magnetic resonance imaging to examine social and monetary rewarded implicit learning in children with and without autism spectrum disorders (ASD). Sixteen males with ASD and sixteen age- and IQ-matched typically developing (TD) males were scanned while performing two versions of a rewarded implicit learning task. In addition to examining responses to reward, we investigated the neural circuitry supporting rewarded learning and the relationship between these factors and social development. We found diminished neural responses to both social and monetary rewards in ASD, with a pronounced reduction in response to social rewards (SR). Children with ASD also demonstrated a further deficit in frontostriatal response during social, but not monetary, rewarded learning. Moreover, we show a relationship between ventral striatum activity and social reciprocity in TD children. Together, these data support the hypothesis that children with ASD have diminished neural responses to SR, and that this deficit relates to social learning impairments.
Interferons alpha (IFNs-alpha) are pleiotropic cytokines belonging to the type I IFN family, originally described for their antiviral activity. These cytokines exhibit a long record of clinical use in patients with some types of cancer and viral diseases. Notably, certain autoimmune disorders have been postulated to be mediated by endogenous IFN-alpha and are often observed in some IFN-treated patients. IFN-alpha can induce multiple biological effects, including induction/promotion of apoptosis and inhibition of cell growth. In addition, these cytokines promote the differentiation and activity of host immune cells. Early studies in mouse tumor models showed the importance of host immune mechanisms in the generation of a long-lasting antitumor response after injection of the animals with either IFN or tumor cells genetically modified for IFN-alpha production. Several studies have shown that IFN-alpha can induce the rapid differentiation of monocytes into highly activated dendritic cells (DCs). Of note, these DCs (IFN-DCs) are particularly effective in taking up complex antigens and inducing T- and B-cell immunity. The ensemble of these results suggests that IFN-DCs can play a role in the generation of antitumor T-cell immunity, pointing out that these cells could be successfully used in strategies of cancer immunotherapy. Likewise, IFN-alpha-DC interactions could also play a role in the pathogenesis of some autoimmune disorders, often associated with IFN-alpha treatment. All this reveals the complexity of the IFN-alpha-DC interactions under normal and pathological conditions and stimulates further studies for identifying optimal modalities in either using these cytokines or controlling their production/action in patients.
Previous work has demonstrated an important role for adrenergic receptors in memory processes in fear and drug conditioning paradigms. Recent studies have also demonstrated alterations in extinction in these paradigms using drug treatments targeting beta- and alpha2-adrenergic receptors, but little is known about the role of alpha-adrenergic receptors in extinction. The current study examined whether antagonism of alpha-adrenergic receptors would impair the consolidation of extinction in fear and cocaine conditioned place preference paradigms. After contextual fear conditioning, injections of the alpha-adrenergic receptor antagonist prazosin (1.0 or 3.0 mg/kg) following nonreinforced context exposures slowed the loss of conditioned freezing over the course of 5 extinction sessions (Experiment 1). After cocaine place conditioning, prazosin had no effect on the rate of extinction over 8 nonreinforced test sessions. Following postextinction reconditioning, however, prazosin-treated mice showed a robust place preference, but vehicle-treated mice did not, suggesting that prazosin reduced the persistent effects of extinction (Experiment 2). These results confirm the involvement of the alpha-adrenergic receptor in extinction processes in both appetitive and aversive preparations.
HD (Huntington's disease) is caused by a polyQ (polyglutamine) expansion in the huntingtin protein, which leads to protein misfolding and aggregation of this protein. Abnormal copper accumulation in the HD brain was first reported more than 15 years ago. Recent findings show that copper-regulatory genes are induced during HD and copper binds to an N-terminal fragment of huntingtin, supporting the involvement of abnormal copper metabolism in HD. We have demonstrated that in vitro copper accelerates the fibrillization of an N-terminal fragment of huntingtin with an expanded polyQ stretch (httExon1). As we found that copper also increases polyQ aggregation and toxicity in mammalian cells expressing httExon1, we investigated further whether overexpression of genes involved in copper metabolism, notably MTs (metallothioneins) known to bind copper, protect against httExon1 toxicity. Using a yeast model of HD, we have shown that overexpression of several genes involved in copper metabolism reduces polyQ-mediated toxicity. Overexpression of MT-3 in mammalian cells significantly reduced polyQ aggregation and toxicity. We propose that copper-binding and/or -chaperoning proteins, especially MTs, are potential therapeutic targets for HD.
The signalling roles of Ca(2+)(ic) (intracellular Ca(2+)) stores are well established in non-neuronal and neuronal cells. In neurons, although Ca(2+)(ic) stores have been assigned a pivotal role in postsynaptic responses to G(q)-coupled receptors, or secondarily to extracellular Ca(2+) influx, the functions of dynamic Ca(2+)(ic) stores in presynaptic terminals remain to be fully elucidated. In the present paper, we review some of the recent evidence supporting an involvement of Ca(2+)(ic) in presynaptic function, and discuss loci at which this source of Ca(2+) may impinge. Nerve terminal preparations provide good models for functionally examining putative Ca(2+)(ic) stores under physiological and pathophysiological stimulation paradigms, using Ca(2+)-dependent activation of resident protein kinases as sensors for fine changes in intracellular Ca(2+) levels. We conclude that intraterminal Ca(2+)(ic) stores may, directly or indirectly, enhance neurotransmitter release following nerve terminal depolarization and/or G-protein-coupled receptor activation. During conditions that prevail following neuronal ischaemia, increased glutamate release instigated by Ca(2+)(ic) store activation may thereby contribute to excitotoxicity and eventual synaptopathy.
Neuropathic pain is caused by lesion or dysfunction of the peripheral sensory nervous system. Up-regulation of the voltage-gated Ca(2+) channel subunit alpha(2)delta-1 in DRG (dorsal root ganglion) neurons and the spinal cord correlates with the onset of neuropathic pain symptoms such as allodynia in several animal models of neuropathic pain. The clinically important anti-allodynic drugs gabapentin and pregabalin are alpha(2)delta-1 ligands, but how these drugs alleviate neuropathic pain is poorly understood. In the present paper, we review recent advances in our understanding of their molecular mechanisms.
Mutations in the X-linked MECP2 gene are the primary cause of the severe autism spectrum disorder RTT (Rett syndrome). Deletion of Mecp2 in mice recapitulates many of the overt neurological features seen in humans, and the delayed onset of symptoms is accompanied by deficits in neuronal morphology and synaptic physiology. Recent evidence suggests that reactivation of endogenous Mecp2 in young and adult mice can reverse aspects of RTT-like pathology. In the current perspective, we discuss these findings as well as other genetic, pharmacological and environmental interventions that attempt phenotypic rescue in RTT. We believe these studies provide valuable insights into the tractability of RTT and related conditions and are useful pointers for the development of future therapeutic strategies.
Synapse elimination is a normal developmental process occurring throughout the central and peripheral nervous systems. Meanwhile, gradual and early loss of synapses is a characteristic that is common to several neurodegenerative disease states. Recent evidence has emerged implicating molecules canonically involved in the immune system and inflammation accompanying neurodegeneration (e.g. classical complement cascade) as important players in the normal elimination of synapses in the developing nervous system. As a result, a question has emerged as to whether mechanisms underlying elimination of synapses during normal development are recapitulated and contribute to early synapse loss and nervous system dysfunction during neurodegenerative disease. The present review explores this possibility and provides a description of many neuroimmune proteins that may participate in the elimination of synapses and synaptic dysfunction in the developing and diseased brain.
DYT1 dystonia is an autosomal dominant movement disorder, characterized by early onset of involuntary sustained muscle contractions. It is caused by a 3-bp deletion in the DYT1 gene, which results in the deletion of a single glutamate residue in the C-terminus of the protein TA (torsinA). TA is a member of the AAA+ (ATPase associated with various cellular activities) family of chaperones with multiple functions in the cell. There is no evidence of neurodegeneration in DYT1 dystonia, which suggests that mutant TA leads to functional neuronal abnormalities, leading to dystonic movements. In recent years, different functional roles have been attributed to TA, including being a component of the cytoskeleton and the NE (nuclear envelope), and involvement in the secretory pathway and SV (synaptic vesicle) machinery. The aim of the present review is to summarize these findings and the different models proposed, which have contributed to our current understanding of the function of TA, and also to discuss the evidence implicating TA in SV function.
A specific neuronal vulnerability to amyloid protein toxicity may account for brain susceptibility to protein misfolding diseases. To investigate this issue, we compared the effects induced by oligomers from salmon calcitonin (sCTOs), a neurotoxic amyloid protein, on cells of different histogenesis: mature and immature primary hippocampal neurons, primary astrocytes, MG63 osteoblasts and NIH-3T3 fibroblasts. In mature neurons, sCTOs increased apoptosis and induced neuritic and synaptic damages similar to those caused by amyloid beta oligomers. Immature neurons and the other cell types showed no cytotoxicity. sCTOs caused cytosolic Ca(2+) rise in mature, but not in immature neurons and the other cell types. Comparison of plasma membrane lipid composition showed that mature neurons had the highest content in lipid rafts, suggesting a key role for them in neuronal vulnerability to sCTOs. Consistently, depletion in gangliosides protected against sCTO toxicity. We hypothesize that the high content in lipid rafts makes mature neurons especially vulnerable to amyloid proteins, as compared to other cell types; this may help explain why the brain is a target organ for amyloid-related diseases.
Despite a longstanding research interest ever since the early work by Claude Bernard, the functional significance of autonomic liver innervation, either sympathetic or parasympathetic, is still ill defined. This scarcity of information not only holds for the brain control of hepatic metabolism, but also for the metabolic sensing function of the liver and the way in which this metabolic information from the liver affects the brain. Clinical information from the bedside suggests that successful human liver transplantation (implying a complete autonomic liver denervation) causes no life threatening metabolic derangements, at least in the absence of severe metabolic challenges such as hypoglycemia. However, from the benchside, data are accumulating that interference with the neuronal brain-liver connection does cause pronounced changes in liver metabolism. This review provides an extensive overview on how metabolic information is sensed by the liver, and how this information is processed via neuronal pathways to the brain. With this information the brain controls liver metabolism and that of other organs and tissues. We will pay special attention to the hypothalamic pathways involved in these liver-brain-liver circuits. At this stage, we still do not know the final destination and processing of the metabolic information that is transferred from the liver to the brain. On the other hand, in recent years, there has been a considerable increase in the understanding which brain areas are involved in the control of liver metabolism via its autonomic innervation. However, in view of the ever rising prevalence of type 2 diabetes, this potentially highly relevant knowledge is still by far too limited. Thus the autonomic innervation of the liver and its role in the control of metabolism needs our continued and devoted attention.
We investigated the effect of mobile phone use on the auditory sensory memory in children. Auditory event-related potentials (ERPs), P1, N2, mismatch negativity (MMN), and P3a, were recorded from 17 children, aged 11-12 years, in the recently developed multi-feature paradigm. This paradigm allows one to determine the neural change-detection profile consisting of several different types of acoustic changes. During the recording, an ordinary GSM (Global System for Mobile Communications) mobile phone emitting 902 MHz (pulsed at 217 Hz) electromagnetic field (EMF) was placed on the ear, over the left or right temporal area (SAR(1g) = 1.14 W/kg, SAR(10g) = 0.82 W/kg, peak value = 1.21 W/kg). The EMF was either on or off in a single-blind manner. We found that a short exposure (two 6 min blocks for each side) to mobile phone EMF has no statistically significant effects on the neural change-detection profile measured with the MMN. Furthermore, the multi-feature paradigm was shown to be well suited for studies of perception accuracy and sensory memory in children. However, it should be noted that the present study only had sufficient statistical power to detect a large effect size.
We investigated acetylcholine esterase (AChE) activity, acetylcholine and muscarinic M1, M3 receptors kinetics in the cerebral cortex of young and old streptozotocin induced and insulin treated diabetic rats. The role of muscarinic receptors in intracellular calcium release from pancreatic islets was studied in vitro. Wistar rats of 7 and 90-weeks old were used. All studies were done in cerebral cortex. AChE assay was done by spectrophotometric method. Radioreceptor binding assays were done for Acetylcholine, Muscarinic M1 and M3 receptors using specific ligands. Calcium imaging was done using fluo4-AM in pancreatic cells. Ninety-weeks old control rats showed significantly decreased Vmax and increased Km for AChE compared to 7-weeks old control rats. An increased Vmax observed in both 7 and 90-weeks old diabetic groups with significant decrease in Km. Scatchard analysis using specific agonists showed significant decrease in the B (max) and K (d) of acetylcholine and muscarinic M1 receptors in 90-weeks old control rats compared to 7-weeks old control. Binding studies for M3 receptors showed no significant change compared to 7-weeks old control. Acetylcholine, muscarinic M1 and M3 receptor number significantly increased in 90-weeks old diabetic rat groups compared to their respective controls. Insulin treatment significantly reversed the binding parameters to near control compared to diabetic group. In vitro studies showed that acetylcholine through muscarinic M1 and M3 receptors' stimulated calcium release from the pancreatic islets. Thus our studies suggest that Insulin signaling play an important part in differentially regulating pancreatic cholinergic activity, and the diabetes mediated cortical dysfunctions with age.
Klk8 is a tryptic serine protease with limited substrate specificity. Klk8 mRNA is expressed in many developing organs, whereas its expression is confined to limited regions, including the hippocampus, in adults. In the hippocampus, Klk8 is involved in activity-dependent synaptic changes such as long-term potentiation, which was found to be suppressed in Klk8 knockout (KO) mice. Oligodendrocytes only expressed Klk8 mRNA after injury to the central nervous system. The epidermis of the skin is one of the tissues that exhibits a high level of KLK8 expression. Klk8 might be involved in desquamation through the degradation of adhesive molecules that connect layers of the epidermis. Klk8 might thus be involved in tissue development and rearrangement.
A mirror system is active both when an animal executes a class of actions (self-actions) and when it sees another execute an action of that class. Much attention has been given to the possible roles of mirror systems in responding to the actions of others but there has been little attention paid to their role in self-actions. In the companion article (Bonaiuto et al. Biol Cybern 96:9-38, 2007) we presented MNS2, an extension of the Mirror Neuron System model of the monkey mirror system trained to recognize the external appearance of its own actions as a basis for recognizing the actions of other animals when they perform similar actions. Here we further extend the study of the mirror system by introducing the novel hypotheses that a mirror system may additionally help in monitoring the success of a self-action and may also be activated by recognition of one's own apparent actions as well as efference copy from one's intended actions. The framework for this computational demonstration is a model of action sequencing, called augmented competitive queuing, in which action choice is based on the desirability of executable actions. We show how this &quot;what did I just do?&quot; function of mirror neurons can contribute to the learning of both executability and desirability which in certain cases supports rapid reorganization of motor programs in the face of disruptions.
A significant challenge in modern neuroscience lies in determining the functional connectivity between discrete populations of neurones and brain regions. In this study, a variation of partial directed coherence, the generalized partial directed coherence (gPDC), along with a newly proposed critical value for gPDC, were applied on recorded local field potentials (LFPs) and single-unit activity, in order to assess information flow between medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) and hippocampus and within the hippocampus of the rat brain, under isoflurane anesthesia and kainic acid-induced enhanced neuronal activity. Our findings suggest that, under anesthesia, there exists a continuous information flow from hippocampus towards mPFC, reversed mostly during activity bursts occurring in the mPFC. Moreover, there was a clear directional connection from the lateral towards medial dorsal hippocampus, most prominent in the beta frequency band (10-30 Hz). Kainic acid resulted in partially disrupting the reciprocal cortico-hippocampal connectivity and reversing the intra-hippocampal one. The biological implications of these findings on the effects of anesthesia and kainic acid in brain connectivity, along with implementation issues of gPDC analysis on field potentials and spike trains, are extensively discussed.

Given clear connections between respiratory distress and subjective anxiety, it is not surprising that respiratory psychophysiologists have been interested in the psychobiology of anxiety. Given parallel links between anxiety and stress, it is not surprising that the hypothalamic-pituitary adrenal (HPA) stress system has also been a focus in anxiety research. However, despite extensive work in respiratory psychophysiology and stress neuroendocrinology--and evidence that these systems are jointly dysregulated in anxiety disorders--direct studies of their interactions are rare. This paper reviews evidence for scientific intersections, providing an overview of the HPA axis, its psychobiology, and shared neural substrates for HPA and respiratory control. We examine HPA hormone effects on respiration, immune/inflammatory mediators, and lung maturation. We also examine respiratory/dyspnea effects on HPA axis. There are clear points of intersection in the neuroscience of respiration and stress. Given the importance of both systems to an organism's ability to survive and adapt in challenging and changing environments, further study of their interactions is needed.
The interest and research into disease-related biomarkers has greatly accelerated over the last 10 years. The potential clinical benefits for disease-specific biomarkers include a more rapid and accurate disease diagnosis, and potential reduction in size and duration of clinical drug trials, which would speed up drug development. The application of biomarkers into the clinical arena of motor neuron disease should both determine if a drug hits its proposed target and whether the drug alters the course of disease. This article will highlight the progress made in discovering suitable biomarker candidates from a variety of sources, including imaging, neurophysiology and proteomics. For biomarkers to have clinical utility, specific criteria must be satisfied. While there has been tremendous effort to discover biomarkers, very few have been translated to the clinic. The bottlenecks in the biomarker pipeline will be highlighted as well as lessons that can be learned from other disciplines, such as oncology.
Oxidative stress is implicated in mitochondrial dysfunction associated with neurodegeneration in Parkinson's disease (PD). Depletion of the cellular antioxidant glutathione (GSH) resulting in oxidative stress is considered as an early event in neurodegeneration. We previously showed that curcumin, a dietary polyphenol from turmeric induced GSH synthesis in experimental models and protected against oxidative stress. Here we tested the effect of three bioconjugates of curcumin (involving diesters of demethylenated piperic acid, valine and glutamic acid) against GSH depletion mediated oxidative stress in dopaminergic neuronal cells and found that the glutamic acid derivative displayed improved neuroprotection compared to curcumin.
Microarrays have thousands to tens-of-thousands of gene features, but only a few hundred patient samples are available. The fundamental problem in microarray data analysis is identifying genes whose disruption causes congenital or acquired disease in humans. In this paper, we propose a new evolutionary method that can efficiently select a subset of potentially informative genes for support vector machine (SVM) classifiers. The proposed evolutionary method uses SVM with a given subset of gene features to evaluate the fitness function, and new subsets of features are selected based on the estimates of generalization error of SVMs and frequency of occurrence of the features in the evolutionary approach. Thus, in theory, selected genes reflect to some extent the generalization performance of SVM classifiers. We compare our proposed method with several existing methods and find that the proposed method can obtain better classification accuracy with a smaller number of selected genes than the existing methods.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second most common neurodegenerative disease, and 5-10% of the PD cases are genetically inherited as familial PD (FPD). LRRK2 (leucine-rich repeat kinase 2) was first reported in 2004 as a gene corresponding to PARK8, an autosomal gene whose dominant mutations cause familial PD. LRRK2 contains both active kinase and GTPase domains as well as protein-protein interaction motifs such as LRR (leucine-rich repeat) and WD40. Most pathogenic LRRK2 mutations are located in either the GTPase or kinase domain, implying important roles for the enzymatic activities in PD pathogenic mechanisms. In comparison to other PD causative genes such as parkin and PINK1, LRRK2 exhibits two important features. One is that LRRK2's mutations (especially the G2019S mutation) were observed in sporadic as well as familial PD patients. Another is that, among the various PDcausing genes, pathological characteristics observed in patients carrying LRRK2 mutations are the most similar to patients with sporadic PD. Because of these two observations, LRRK2 has been intensively investigated for its pathogenic mechanism (s) and as a target gene for PD therapeutics. In this review, the general biochemical and molecular features of LRRK2, the recent results of LRRK2 studies and LRRK2's therapeutic potential as a PD target gene will be discussed.


Severe brain damage is often followed by serious complications. Quantitative measurements, such as regional volume and surface area under various conditions, are essential for understanding functional changes in the brain and assessing prognosis. The affected brain tissue is variable, hence traditional imaging methods are not always applicable and automatic methods may not be able to match the individual observer. Stereological techniques are alternative tools in the quantitative description of biological structures, and have been increasingly applied to the human brain. In the present study, we applied stereological techniques to representative CT and MRI brain scans from five patients to describe how stereological methods, when applied to scans of trauma patients, can provide a useful supplement to the estimation of structural brain changes in head injuries. The reliability of the estimates was tested by obtaining repeated intra- and interobserver estimates of selected subdivisions of the brain in patients with acute head injury, as well as in an MR phantom. The estimates of different subdivisions showed a coefficient of variation (CV) below 12% in the patients and below 7% for phantom estimation. The validity of phantom estimates was tested by the average deviation from the true geometric values, and was below 10%. The stereological methods were compared with more traditional region-based methods performed on medical imaging, which showed a CV below 7% and bias below 14%. It is concluded that the stereological estimates may be useful tools in head injury quantification.
Phosphatase and tensin homolog-induced putative kinase 1 gene mutations have been associated with autosomal recessive early-onset Parkinson's disease. To date, no neuropathological reports have been published from patients with Parkinson's disease with both phosphatase and tensin homolog-induced putative kinase 1 gene copies mutated. We analysed the coding region of phosphatase and tensin homolog-induced putative kinase 1 gene in a large Spanish family with six members with parkinsonism. The phenotype was characterized by an early-onset (mean: 31.6, standard deviation: 9.6 years, range: 14-45 years), slowly progressive levodopa-responsive parkinsonism, initial gait impairment and psychiatric symptoms. We identified two segregating pathogenic phosphatase and tensin homolog-induced putative kinase 1 mutations that were either in homozygous or heterozygous compound state in all affected family members. We found an exon 7 deletion (g.16089_16383del293; c.1252_1488del) and a novel+1U1-dependent 5' splice-site mutation in exon 7 (g.16378G&gt;A; c.1488+1G&gt;A). Leukocyte-derived messenger RNA analysis showed that both mutations caused exon 7 skipping and c.1488+1G&gt;A also lead to an in-frame transcript with a 33 base-pair deletion (p.L485_R497del) resulting from activation of a 5' cryptic exon 7 splice site. Single photon emission computed tomography quantification of striatal dopamine transporter binding (123I-Ioflupane) revealed a posterior-anterior gradient similar to that of idiopathic Parkinson's disease, but there was no correlation between striatal reduced uptake and disease duration. Post-mortem neuropathological examination of an early-onset Parkinson's disease carrier of two heterozygous compound phosphatase and tensin homolog-induced putative kinase 1 mutations showed neuronal loss in the substantia nigra pars compacta, Lewy bodies and aberrant neurites in the reticular nuclei of the brainstem, substantia nigra pars compacta and Meynert nucleus, but the locus ceruleus and the amygdala were spared. This is the first neuropathological report of the brain from an early-onset phosphatase and tensin homolog-induced putative kinase 1-linked parkinsonism showing that mutated phosphatase and tensin homolog-induced putative kinase 1 protein induces Lewy body pathology. Unbalanced preservation of the locus ceruleus may well play a role in the slow evolution of motor symptoms and, probably, in the psychiatric symptoms often encountered in Parkinson's disease associated with phosphatase and tensin homolog-induced putative kinase 1 mutation.
Numerous studies argue that cortical reorganization may contribute to the restoration of motor function following stroke. However, the evolution of changes during the post-stroke reorganization has been little studied. This study sought to identify dynamic changes in the functional organization, particularly topological characteristics, of the motor execution network during the stroke recovery process. Ten patients (nine male and one female) with subcortical infarctions were assessed by neurological examination and scanned with resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging across five consecutive time points in a single year. The motor execution network of each subject was constructed using a functional connectivity matrix between 21 brain regions and subsequently analysed using graph theoretical approaches. Dynamic changes in topological configuration of the network during the process of recovery were evaluated by a mixed model. We found that the motor execution network gradually shifted towards a random mode during the recovery process, which suggests that a less optimized reorganization is involved in regaining function in the affected limbs. Significantly increased regional centralities within the network were observed in the ipsilesional primary motor area and contralesional cerebellum, whereas the ipsilesional cerebellum showed decreased regional centrality. Functional connectivity to these brain regions demonstrated consistent alterations over time. Notably, these measures correlated with different clinical variables, which provided support that the findings may reflect the adaptive reorganization of the motor execution network in stroke patients. In conclusion, the study expands our understanding of the spectrum of changes occurring in the brain after stroke and provides a new avenue for investigating lesion-induced network plasticity.
Cortical spreading depression is a propagating wave of depolarization that plays important roles in migraine, stroke, subarachnoid haemorrhage and brain injury. Cortical spreading depression is associated with profound vascular changes that may be a significant factor in the clinical response to cortical spreading depression events. We used a combination of optical intrinsic signal imaging, electro-physiology, potassium sensitive electrodes and spectroscopy to investigate neurovascular changes associated with cortical spreading depression in the mouse. We identified two distinct phases of altered neurovascular function, one during the propagating cortical spreading depression wave and a second much longer phase after passage of the wave. The direct current shift associated with the cortical spreading depression wave was accompanied by marked arterial constriction and desaturation of cortical haemoglobin. After recovery from the initial cortical spreading depression wave, we observed a second phase of prolonged, negative direct current shift, arterial constriction and haemoglobin desaturation, lasting at least an hour. Persistent disruption of neurovascular coupling was demonstrated by a loss of coherence between electro-physiological activity and perfusion. Extracellular potassium concentration increased during the cortical spreading depression wave, but recovered and remained at baseline after passage of the wave, consistent with different mechanisms underlying the first and second phases of neurovascular dysfunction. These findings indicate that cortical spreading depression is associated with a multiphasic alteration in neurovascular function, including a novel second direct current shift accompanied by arterial constriction and decrease in tissue oxygen supply, that is temporally and mechanistically distinct from the initial propagated cortical spreading depression wave. Vascular/metabolic uncoupling with cortical spreading depression may have important clinical consequences, and the different phases of dysfunction may represent separate therapeutic targets in the disorders where cortical spreading depression occurs.
Despite much recent interest in the clinical neuroscience of music processing, the cognitive organization of music as a domain of non-verbal knowledge has been little studied. Here we addressed this issue systematically in two expert musicians with clinical diagnoses of semantic dementia and Alzheimer's disease, in comparison with a control group of healthy expert musicians. In a series of neuropsychological experiments, we investigated associative knowledge of musical compositions (musical objects), musical emotions, musical instruments (musical sources) and music notation (musical symbols). These aspects of music knowledge were assessed in relation to musical perceptual abilities and extra-musical neuropsychological functions. The patient with semantic dementia showed relatively preserved recognition of musical compositions and musical symbols despite severely impaired recognition of musical emotions and musical instruments from sound. In contrast, the patient with Alzheimer's disease showed impaired recognition of compositions, with somewhat better recognition of composer and musical era, and impaired comprehension of musical symbols, but normal recognition of musical emotions and musical instruments from sound. The findings suggest that music knowledge is fractionated, and superordinate musical knowledge is relatively more robust than knowledge of particular music. We propose that music constitutes a distinct domain of non-verbal knowledge but shares certain cognitive organizational features with other brain knowledge systems. Within the domain of music knowledge, dissociable cognitive mechanisms process knowledge derived from physical sources and the knowledge of abstract musical entities.
Person recognition can be accomplished through several modalities (face, name, voice). Lesion, neurophysiology and neuroimaging studies have been conducted in an attempt to determine the similarities and differences in the neural networks associated with person identity via different modality inputs. The current study used event-related functional-MRI in 17 healthy participants to directly compare activation in response to randomly presented famous and non-famous names and faces (25 stimuli in each of the four categories). Findings indicated distinct areas of activation that differed for faces and names in regions typically associated with pre-semantic perceptual processes. In contrast, overlapping brain regions were activated in areas associated with the retrieval of biographical knowledge and associated social affective features. Specifically, activation for famous faces was primarily right lateralized and famous names were left-lateralized. However, for both stimuli, similar areas of bilateral activity were observed in the early phases of perceptual processing. Activation for fame, irrespective of stimulus modality, activated an extensive left hemisphere network, with bilateral activity observed in the hippocampi, posterior cingulate, and middle temporal gyri. Findings are discussed within the framework of recent proposals concerning the neural network of person identification.
The neuropsychological literature on the processing of emotions in Parkinson's disease (PD) reveals conflicting evidence about the role of the basal ganglia in the recognition of facial emotions. Hence, the present study had two objectives. One was to determine the extent to which the visual processing of emotions and objects differs in PD. The other was to assess the impact of cognitive load on the processing of these types of information. Thirty-one patients with idiopathic PD (IPD) under dopamine replacement therapy (DRT) were compared to 30 control subjects on emotion and object recognition tasks. Recognition of objects was more accurate and faster than recognition of facial expressions of emotion, for both groups of subjects. In a second experiment using an N-back procedure with the same stimuli-a more demanding task with a higher cognitive load-patients with IPD were as accurate as control subjects in detecting the correct sequential presentation of stimuli, but were much slower in their decision responses. This indicates that IPD patients under DRT are not impaired in encoding emotion or object information, but that they have difficulty with the processing demands of the N-back task. Thus, patients with IPD appear to be more sensitive to cognitive load than to type of information, whether facial emotions or objects. In this perspective, one must consider that a deafferented dopaminergic system has problems processing more complex information before one can posit the existence of deficits affecting a specific type of information.
In the last two decades research on the neurophysiological processes of creativity has found contradicting results. Whereas most research suggests right hemisphere dominance in creative thinking, left-hemisphere dominance has also been reported. The present research is a meta-analytic review of the literature to establish how creative thinking relates to relative hemispheric dominance. The analysis was performed on the basis of a non-parametric vote-counting approach and effect-size calculations of Cramer's phi suggest relative dominance of the right hemisphere during creative thinking. Moderator analyses revealed no difference in predominant right-hemispheric activation for verbal vs. figural tasks, holistic vs. analytical tasks, and context-dependent vs. context-independent tasks. Suggestions for further investigations with the meta-analytic and neuroscience methodologies to answer the questions of left hemispheric activation and further moderation of the effects are discussed.
There is increasing focus on the neurophysiological underpinnings of brain activations, giving birth to an emerging branch of neuroscience - neuroenergetics. However, no common definition of &quot;brain activation&quot; exists thus far. In this article, we define brain activation as the information-driven reorganization of energy flows in a population of neuroglial units that leads to an overall increase in energy utilization in this population. On the basis of this definition, the key aspects of modern biochemical and biophysical approaches to neuroenergetics are considered from the perspective of the links between these approaches within the context of the free energy minimization principle and the neurophysiological conception of deviance detection. In this light, we consider brain basal activity as subserving internal representations of the environment (predictive coding), and brain activation as reflecting the level of deviance from predictive coding.
Modern cognitive neuroscientific theories and empirical evidence suggest that brain structures involved in movement may be related to action-related semantic knowledge. To test this hypothesis, we examined the naming of environmental sounds in patients with corticobasal degeneration (CBD) and progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), two neurodegenerative diseases associated with cognitive and motor deficits. Subjects were presented with 56 environmental sounds: 28 sounds were of objects that required manipulation when producing the sound, and 28 sounds were of objects that required no manipulation. Subjects were asked to provide the name of the object that produced the sound and also complete a sound-picture matching condition. Subjects included 33 individuals from four groups: CBD/PSP, Alzheimer disease, frontotemporal dementia, and normal controls. We hypothesized that CBD/PSP patients would exhibit impaired naming performance compared with controls, but the impairment would be most apparent when naming sounds associated with actions. We also explored neural correlates of naming environmental sounds using voxel-based morphometry (VBM) of brain MRI. As expected, CBD/PSP patients scored lower on environmental sounds naming (p&lt;0.007) compared with the controls. In particular, the CBD/PSP patients scored the lowest when naming sounds of manipulable objects (p&lt;0.05), but did not show deficits in naming sounds of non-manipulable objects. VBM analysis across all groups showed that performance in naming sounds of manipulable objects correlated with atrophy in the left pre-motor region, extending from area six to the middle and superior frontal gyrus. These results indicate an association between impairment in the retrieval of action-related names and the motor system, and suggest that difficulty in naming manipulable sounds may be related to atrophy in the pre-motor cortex. Our results support the hypothesis that retrieval of action-related semantic knowledge involves motor regions in the brain.
Recent theories on the evolution of language (e.g. Corballis, 2009) emphazise the interest of early manifestations of manual laterality and manual specialization in human infants. In the present study, left- and right-hand movements towards a midline object were observed in 24 infants aged 4months in a constrained condition, in which the hands were maintained closed, and in a free condition. A left-hand dominance for approach movements without contact with the object, and a right-hand dominance for reaching movements with object contact was observed in the free condition. In the constrained condition reaching movements of the right hand decreased dramatically. These results are interpreted as strong evidence of manual specialization in 4-month olds, with approach movements having a localization role and reaching movements announcing future right-hand dominance for prehension and object manipulation.
To investigate the relationship between regional hippocampal volume and memory in healthy elderly, 147 community-based volunteers, aged 55-83years, were evaluated using magnetic resonance imaging, the Groton Maze Learning Test, Visual Reproduction and the Rey Auditory Verbal Learning Test. Hippocampal volumes were determined by interactive volumetry. We found greater age-related reduction in the volume of the hippocampal head relative to the tail. Right hippocampal tail volume correlated with spatial memory on the Groton Maze Learning Test while left hippocampal body volume was associated with delayed verbal memory. These associations were independent of age, sex, education and speed of processing and support the notion of functional differentiation along the long axis of the hippocampus.
Much evidence suggests that common posterior parietal mechanisms underlie the orientation of attention in physical space and along the mental number line. For example, the small leftward bias (pseudoneglect) found in paper-and-pencil line bisection is also found when participants &quot;bisect&quot; number pairs, estimating (without calculating) the number midway between two others. For bisection of physical lines, pseudoneglect has been found to shift rightward as lines are moved from near space (immediately surrounding the body) to far space. We investigated whether the presentation of stimuli in near or far space also modulated spatial attention for the mental number line. Participants bisected physical lines or number pairs presented at four distances (60, 120, 180, 240cm). Clear rightward shifts in bias were observed for both tasks. Furthermore, the rate at which this shift occurred in the two tasks, as measured by least-squares regression slopes, was significantly correlated across participants, suggesting that the transition from near to far distances induced a common modulation of lateral attention in physical and numerical space. These results demonstrate a tight coupling between number and physical space, and show that even such prototypically abstract concepts as number are modulated by our on-line interactions with the world.

In epileptic patients, focal cortical dysplasia (FCD) is pathologically characterized by irregular cortical lamination, blurring of the grey and white matter border and the occurrence of dysplastic cells in the cerebral cortex. Here, we report the case of a 42-year-old male showing developmental delay, transient repetition of hypoglycemic attack and cortical dysplasia, partly mimicking FCD. He had no family history of neurological disorders. He had never been able to stand independently and had always been unable to speak. He developed generalized convulsion in infancy, and then, in the absence of predisposing factors, suffered from repetitive hypoglycemic attacks between the ages of 27 and 38. Various endocrine tests, abdominal CT and brain MRI failed to demonstrate abnormalities. He died of peritonitis. At autopsy, no changes were observed in the pancreas, liver, kidneys, endocrine organs or hypothalamus. In the insular and frontal cortices, many large bizarre cells in the deep layer were observed and perivascular oligodendrocyte satellitosis was present in the adjacent white matter. Unlike FCD, the cortical lamination and the grey-white matter interface were preserved. A well-demarcated pilocytic astrocytoma was present in the brainstem. The cortical dysplasia, consisting of the diffuse occurrence of bizarre cells and the preservation of cortical lamination, is unique and has not been previously reported. Repetition of hypoglycemic attacks within a certain period is also noteworthy, although the relationship of this with the cortical dysplasia is unknown.
Myasthenia gravis (MG) is the most common autoimmune disorder of the neuromuscular junction and is clinically characterized by weakness and muscle fatigue. We have classified MG into 3 types on the basis of the antibody pattern. The first type associated with acetylcholine receptor (AChR) autoantibodies, which predominantly belong to IgG1 subclass and are measured by a conventional radioimmunoprecipitation assay with 125I-alpha-bungarotoxin. This subtype occurs in approximately 80% of patients with MG and leads to the loss of AChR number and function, mainly by complement-mediated destruction of the neuromuscular junction. Approximately 40% of patients with MG who have AChR antibodes have a thymoma as a paraneoplastic neurological syndrome. However, the role of antigen expression by thymomas is unclear. The second type of MG occurs in a proportion of &quot;seronegative&quot; patients who did not have AChR autoantibodies. These patients process IgG autoantibodies to muscle-specific tyrosine kinase (MuSK); these antibodies are predominantly of the IgG4 subclass but are not associated with complement-mediated damage to the neuromuscular junction or with the presence of thymomas. In most patients with MuSK antibodies, the symptoms of MG improve after plasma exchange; these patients show a good response to steroid and immunosuppressive drugs but a poor response to thymectomy. MG not associated with the presence of the 2 abovementioned pathogenic autoantibodies is classified as heterogeneous &quot;double seronegative&quot; MG. Our classification is superior to the present classifications with regard to the mechanism, treatment, and prognosis of the disease.
During the last two decades, transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) has rapidly become a valuable method to investigate noninvasively the human brain. In addition, repetitive TMS (rTMS) is able to induce changes in brain activity that last after stimulation. Therefore, rTMS has therapeutic potential in patients with neurologic and psychiatric disorders. It is, however, unclear by which mechanism rTMS induces these lasting effects on the brain. The effects of rTMS are often described as LTD- or LTP-like, because the duration of these alterations seems to implicate changes in synaptic plasticity. In this review we therefore discuss, based on rTMS experiments and knowledge about synaptic plasticity, whether the physiologic basis of rTMS-effects relates to changes in synaptic plasticity. We present seven lines of evidence that strongly suggest a link between the aftereffects induced by rTMS and the induction of synaptic plasticity. It is, nevertheless, important to realize that at present it is impossible to demonstrate a direct link between rTMS on the one hand and synaptic plasticity on the other. Therefore, we provide suggestions for future, innovating research, aiming to investigate both the local effects of rTMS on the synapse and the effects of rTMS on other, more global levels of brain organization. Only in that way can the aftereffects of rTMS on the brain be completely understood.








Recent studies have reported that estrogen and progesterone have a neuroprotective effect after traumatic brain injury (TBI); however, the mechanism(s) for this effect have not yet been elucidated. The aim of the present study was to investigate the role of sex steroid hormones on changes in brain edema, intracranial pressure (ICP), and cerebral perfusion pressure (CPP) after TBI in ovariectomized (OVX) rats. In this study, 50 female rats were divided into 5 groups: control (intact), sham, and 3 TBI groups consisting of vehicle, estrogen (1 mg/kg), and progesterone (8 mg/kg). TBI was induced by the Marmarou method, and the hormones were injected i.p. 30 min after TBI. ICP was measured in the spinal cord, and CPP was calculated by subtracting the mean arterial pressure (MAP) from ICP. The results revealed that brain water content after TBI was lower (p &lt; 0.001) in the estrogen and progesterone groups than in the vehicle group. After trauma, ICP was significantly higher in TBI rats (p &lt; 0.001). The ICP in the estrogen and progesterone groups decreased at 4 and 24 h after TBI compared with vehicle (p &lt; 0.001 and p &lt; 0.05, respectively). The CPP in the estrogen and progesterone groups increased after 24 h compared with vehicle (p &lt; 0.001). Also after TBI, the neurological score (veterinary coma scale) was significantly higher than vehicle at 1 h (p &lt; 0.01) and 24 h (p &lt; 0.001) in the group treated with estrogen. In conclusion, pharmacological doses of estrogen and progesterone improved ICP, CPP, and neurological scores after TBI in OVX rats, which implies that these hormones play a neuroprotective role in TBI.
Schwannomas are benign tumors forming along peripheral nerves that can cause deafness, pain and paralysis. Current treatment involves surgical resection, which can damage associated nerves. To achieve tumor regression without damage to nerve fibers, we generated an HSV amplicon vector in which the apoptosis-inducing enzyme, caspase-1 (ICE), was placed under the Schwann cell-specific P0 promoter. Infection of schwannoma, neuroblastoma and fibroblastic cells in culture with ICE under the P0 promoter showed selective toxicity to schwannoma cells, while ICE under a constitutive promoter was toxic to all cell types. After direct intratumoral injection of the P0-ICE amplicon vector, we achieved marked regression of schwannoma tumors in an experimental xenograft mouse model. Injection of this amplicon vector into the sciatic nerve produced no apparent injury to the associated dorsal root ganglia neurons or myelinated nerve fibers. The P0-ICE amplicon vector provides a potential means of 'knifeless resection' of schwannoma tumors by injection of the vector into the tumor with low risk of damage to associated nerve fibers.
Each technological development of radiotherapy is an example of interaction between physicians and physicists. In the past, it was the case for the first X-rays generators, betatrons and particle accelerators. To date, this is the case for Cyberknives and intensity modulation radiotherapy. In the future, this will be the case for proton- and hadron-therapy. However, in a general tendency of favouring higher radiation energies, leaving the 250kV orthovoltage irradiators and preferring accelerators delivering some tens MeV to reach the deepest tumours, how to consider the anti-cancer applications of synchrotron radiation that provides X-rays in the 10-100keV &quot;only&quot;? Since the first approaches developed in the USA in seventies until the last preclinical trials performed at the European Synchrotron Radiation Facility of Grenoble, the radiobiological features of the chemoradiotherapy involving synchrotron radiation will be described and analysed throughout a transversal view considering physicochemical bases, biomolecular and cellular mechanisms and results from the preclinical trials in order to provide a general outcome and some eventual transfer perspectives.
Extensive research efforts have been conducted over the past decades to understand the processing of the Amyloid Precursor Protein (APP). APP cleavage leads to the production of the beta-amyloid peptide (Abeta), which is the major constituent of the amyloid core of senile plaques found in the brains of patients with Alzheimer disease (AD). Abeta is produced by the sequential cleavage of APP by beta- and gamma-secretases. Cleavage of APP by gamma-secretase also generates the APP Intracellular C-terminal Domain (AICD) peptide, which might be involved in regulation of gene transcription. Up to now, our understanding of the mechanisms controlling APP processing has been elusive. Recently, APP was found to form homo- or hetero-complexes with the APP-like proteins (APLPs), which belong to the same family and share some important structural properties with receptors having a single membrane spanning domain. Homodimerization of APP is driven by motifs present in the extracellular domain and possibly in the juxtamembrane and transmembrane (JM/TM) domains of the protein. These striking observations raise important questions about APP processing and function: How and where is APP dimerizing? What is the role of dimerization in APP processing and function? Can dimerization be targeted by small molecule therapeutics?
Systemic delivery of multipotent mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) may be of benefit in the treatment of neurological diseases, including multiple sclerosis (MS). Certainly, animal studies have demonstrated functional benefits following MSC transplantation, although the mechanisms by which MSCs migrate to lesions and stimulate repair remain unknown. Chemokines stimulate migration in other settings. In this study, we systematically explore the migratory and proliferative responses of human MSCs (hMSC) to chemokines expressed in MS lesions. We demonstrate that these chemokines trigger hMSC migration. In addition, we show that RANTES and IP-10 promote hMSC proliferation.
The glucocorticoids (GCs), the most downstream effectors of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, are the main mediators of stress response. Stress-triggered GCs as well as acute and chronic GC treatment can impair the structural plasticity and function of the brain. The exposure of perinatal animals and humans to excess stress or GCs can affect the brain development, resulting in altered behaviors in the adult offspring of animals and an increased risk of psychiatric disorders in humans. Despite the numerous studies documenting these effects, the underlying mechanism remains unclear. In this commentary we will focus on the effect of excess GCs on cortical development. We have recently showed that excess-GC-dependent retardation of the radial migration of neural progenitor cells (NPCs) is caused by the dysregulation of actin-myosin interaction via upregulation of caldesmon (CaD), an actin-linked regulatory protein. The elucidation of the molecular mechanisms that underlie the detrimental action of GCs on cortical development will expand our understanding of how stress/GCs alter the formation of neural networks and affect behaviors later in life.
Mitochondrial proton leak can account for almost 20% of oxygen consumption and it is generally accepted that this process contributes to basal metabolism. In order to clarify the role of basal proton leak in testicular mitochondria, we performed a comparative study with kidney and liver mitochondrial fractions. Proton leak stimulated by linoleic acid and inhibited by guanosine diphosphate (GDP) was detected, in a manner that was correlated with protein levels for uncoupling protein 2 (UCP2) in the three fractions. Modulation of proton leak had an effect on reactive oxygen species production as well as on lipid peroxidation, and this effect was also tissue-dependent. However, a possible role for the adenine nucleotide transporter (ANT) in testicular mitochondria proton leak could not be excluded. The modulation of proton leak appears as a possible and attractive target to control oxidative stress with implications for male gametogenesis.
The presynaptic Ca2+ signal, which triggers vesicle release, disperses to a broadly distributed residual [Ca2+] ([Ca2+](res)) that plays an important role in synaptic plasticity. We have previously reported a slowing in the decay timecourse of [Ca2+](res) during the second of paired pulses. In this study, we investigated the contributions of organelle and plasma membrane Ca2+ flux pathways to the reduction of effectiveness of [Ca2+](res) clearance during short-term plasticity in Schaffer collateral terminals in the CA1 field of the hippocampus. We show that the slowed decay timecourse is mainly the result of a transport-dependent Ca2+ clearance process; that presynaptic caffeine-sensitive Ca2+ stores are not functionally loaded in the unstimulated terminal, but that these stores can effectively take up Ca2+ even during high frequency trains of stimuli; and that a rate limiting step of sarco-endoplasmic reticulum Ca2+-ATPase (SERCA) kinetics following the first pulse is responsible for a large portion of the observed slowing of [Ca2+](res) clearance during the second pulse. We were able to accurately fit our [Ca2+](res) data with a kinetic model based on these observations and this model predicted a reduction in availability of unbound SERCA during paired pulses, but no saturation of Ca2+ buffer in the endoplasmic reticulum.
Our previous study definitely demonstrated that the mature astrocytes could undergo a de-differentiation process and further transform into pluripotential neural stem cells (NSCs), which might well arise from the effect of diffusible factors released from scratch-insulted astrocytes. However, these neurospheres passaged from one neurosphere-derived from de-differentiated astrocytes possessed a completely distinct characteristic in the differentiation behavior, namely heterogeneity of differentiation. The heterogeneity in cell differentiation has become a crucial but elusive issue. In this study, we show that purified astrocytes could de-differentiate into intermediate precursor cells (IPCs) with addition of scratch-insulted astrocyte-conditioned medium (ACM) to the culture, which can express NG2 and A2B5, the IPCs markers. Apart from the number of NG2(+) and A2B5(+) cells, the percentage of proliferative cells as labeled with BrdU progressively increased with prolonged culture period ranging from 1 to 10 days. Meanwhile, the protein level of A2B5 in cells also increased significantly. These results revealed that not all astrocytes could de-differentiate fully into NSCs directly when induced by ACM, rather they generated intermediate or more restricted precursor cells that might undergo progressive de-differentiation to generate NSCs.
Available treatment for Parkinson's disease (PD) is mainly symptomatic instead of halting or reversing degenerative processes affecting the disease. Research on the molecular pathogenesis of PD has suggested reduced trophic support as a possible cause or mediator of neurodegeneration. In animal models of the disease, neurotrophic factors prevent neurodegeneration and induce behavioral recovery. Some anti-Parkinsonian drugs show neuroprotective activity, but it is not known whether the drug-induced neuroprotection is mediated by neurotrophic factors. In this study, we have investigated the influence of two neuroprotective anti-Parkinsonian drugs, the monoamine oxidase B inhibitor selegiline and the adenosine A(2A) antagonist SCH 58261, on the levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and cerebral dopamine neurotrophic factor (CDNF) in the mouse brain. Protein levels of BDNF and CDNF were quantified by western blot after 2 weeks of treatment with either of the drugs or placebo. CDNF levels were not significantly influenced by selegiline or SCH 58261 in any brain area studied. Selegiline treatment significantly increased BDNF levels in the anterior cingulate cortex (1.55 +/- 0.22, P &lt; 0.05, Student's t-test). In the striatum, selegiline increased BDNF content by 32%, but this change did not reach statistical significance (1.32 +/- 0.15, P &lt; 0.13, Student's t-test). Our data suggest that neurotrophic factors, particularly BDNF may play a role in the neuroprotective effects of selegiline, but do not support the hypothesis that anti-Parkinsonian drugs would work by increasing the levels of CDNF in brain.
Although the water channel protein aquaporin-1 (AQP1) is widely observed outside the rat brain in continuous, but not fenestrated, vascular endothelia, it has not previously been observed in any endothelia within the normal rat brain and only to a limited extent in the human brain. In this immunohistochemical study of rat brain, AQP1 has also been found in microvessel endothelia, probably of the fenestrated type, in all circumventricular organs (except the subcommissural organ and the vascular organ of the lamina terminalis): in the median eminence, pineal, subfornical organ, area postrema and choroid plexus. The majority of microvessels in the median eminence, pineal and choroid plexus, known to be exclusively fenestrated, are shown to be AQP1-immunoreactive. In the subfornical organ and area postrema in which many, but not all, microvessels are fenestrated, not all microvessels are AQP1-immunoreactive. In the AQP1-immunoreactive microvessels, the AQP1 probably facilitates water movement between blood and interstitium as one component of the normal fluxes that occur in these specialised sensory and secretory areas. AQP1-immunoreactive endothelia have also been seen in a small population of blood vessels in the cerebral parenchyma outside the circumventricular organs, similar to other observations in human brain. The proposed development of AQP1 modulators to treat various brain pathologies in which AQP1 plays a deleterious role will necessitate further work to determine the effect of such modulators on the normal function of the circumventricular organs.
Functional imaging of human trigemino-nociceptive processing provides meaningful insights into altered pain processing in head and face pain diseases. Although functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) offers high temporal and spatial resolution, most studies available were done with radioligand-positron emission tomography, as fMRI requires non-magnetic stimulus equipment and fast on-off conditions. We developed a new approach for painful stimulation of the trigeminal nerve that can be implemented within an event-related design using fMRI and aimed to detect increased blood-oxygen-level-dependent (BOLD) signals as surrogate markers of trigeminal pain processing. Using an olfactometer, 20 healthy volunteers received intranasally standardized trigeminal nociceptive stimuli (ammonia gas) as well as olfactory (rose odour) and odorless control stimuli (air puffs). Imaging revealed robust BOLD responses to the trigeminal nociceptive stimulation in cortical and subcortical brain areas known to be involved in pain processing. Focusing on the trigeminal pain pathway, significant activations were observed bilaterally in brainstem areas at the trigeminal nerve entry zone, which are agreeable with the principal trigeminal nuclei. Furthermore, increased signal changes could be detected ipsilaterally at anatomical localization of the trigeminal ganglion and bilaterally in the rostral medulla, which probably represents the spinal trigeminal nuclei. However, brainstem areas involved in the endogenous pain control system that are close to this anatomical localization, such as raphe nuclei, have to be discussed. Our findings suggest that mapping trigeminal pain processing using fMRI with this non-invasive experimental design is feasible and capable of evoking specific activations in the trigeminal nociceptive system. This method will provide an ideal opportunity to study the trigeminal pain system in both health and pathological conditions such as idiopathic headache disorders.

The negative impact of external interference on working memory (WM) performance is well documented; yet, the mechanisms underlying this disruption are not sufficiently understood. In this study, electroencephalogram and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data were recorded in separate experiments that each introduced different types of visual interference during a period of WM maintenance: distraction (irrelevant stimuli) and interruption (stimuli that required attention). The data converged to reveal that regardless of the type of interference, the magnitude of processing interfering stimuli in the visual cortex (as rapidly as 100 ms) predicted subsequent WM recognition accuracy for stored items. fMRI connectivity analyses suggested that in the presence of distraction, encoded items were maintained throughout the delay period via connectivity between the middle frontal gyrus and visual association cortex, whereas memoranda were not maintained when subjects were interrupted but rather reactivated in the postinterruption period. These results elucidate the mechanisms of external interference on WM performance and highlight similarities and differences of distraction and multitasking.
To understand sensory representation in cortex, it is crucial to identify its constituent cellular components based on cell-type-specific criteria. With the identification of cell types, an important question can be addressed: to what degree does the cellular properties of neurons depend on cortical location? We tested this question using pyramidal neurons in layer 5 (L5) because of their role in providing major cortical output to subcortical targets. Recently developed transgenic mice with cell-type-specific enhanced green fluorescent protein labeling of neuronal subtypes allow reliable identification of 2 cortical cell types in L5 throughout the entire neocortex. A comprehensive investigation of anatomical and functional properties of these 2 cell types in visual and somatosensory cortex demonstrates that, with important exceptions, most properties appear to be cell-type-specific rather than dependent on cortical area. This result suggests that although cortical output neurons share a basic layout throughout the sensory cortex, fine differences in properties are tuned to the cortical area in which neurons reside.
Previous studies have reported abnormal prefrontal and cingulate activity during attentional control processing in schizophrenia. However, it is not clear how variation in attentional control load modulates activity within these brain regions in this brain disorder. The aim of this study in schizophrenia is to investigate the impact of increasing levels of attentional control processing on prefrontal and cingulate activity. Blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) responses of 16 outpatients with schizophrenia were compared with those of 21 healthy subjects while performing a task eliciting increasing levels of attentional control during event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging at 3 T. Results showed reduced behavioral performance in patients at greater attentional control levels. Imaging data indicated greater prefrontal activity at intermediate attentional control levels in patients but greater prefrontal and cingulate responses at high attentional control demands in controls. The BOLD activity profile of these regions in controls increased linearly with increasing cognitive loads, whereas in patients, it was nonlinear. Correlation analysis consistently showed differential region and load-specific relationships between brain activity and behavior in the 2 groups. These results indicate that varying attentional control load is associated in schizophrenia with load- and region-specific modification of the relationship between behavior and brain activity, possibly suggesting earlier saturation of cognitive capacity.
To investigate the role of the medial parietal region (MPR), comprising area 7 m and the retrosplenial and posterior cingulate cortices, in spatial navigation, we analyzed the spatial aspect of the responses of the MPR neurons in monkeys while they actively performed a navigation task in a virtual environment. One-third of the analyzed MPR neurons were activated depending on the location of the monkeys in the environment, that is, showed place-selective responses. Some neurons showed varying responses based on the starting point (SP) or destination. We further investigated the responses of the place-selective neurons when the monkeys were shown animations of the entire navigation route, including the preferred field, and a segment of the route, including an area around the preferred field, and a still image of the preferred field. We observed that the responses of some place-selective neurons reduced when the monkeys viewed the preferred field in the segmented animation or in the still image compared with when they viewed the entire animation. These results suggested that the knowledge about the SP or destination, that is, context, is necessary to activate place-selective neurons. The effect of such contextual information suggests that the MPR plays decisive roles in spatial processing such as navigation.
Sensory experiences have important roles in the functional development of the mammalian auditory cortex. Here, we show how early continuous noise rearing influences spatial sensitivity in the rat primary auditory cortex (A1) and its underlying mechanisms. By rearing infant rat pups under conditions of continuous, moderate level white noise, we found that noise rearing markedly attenuated the spatial sensitivity of A1 neurons. Compared with rats reared under normal conditions, spike counts of A1 neurons were more poorly modulated by changes in stimulus location, and their preferred locations were distributed over a larger area. We further show that early continuous noise rearing induced significant decreases in glutamic acid decarboxylase 65 and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)(A) receptor alpha1 subunit expression, and an increase in GABA(A) receptor alpha3 expression, which indicates a returned to the juvenile form of GABA(A) receptor, with no effect on the expression of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. These observations indicate that noise rearing has powerful adverse effects on the maturation of cortical GABAergic inhibition, which might be responsible for the reduced spatial sensitivity.




Deep brain stimulation (DBS) is a reliable treatment for advanced Parkinson's disease (PD) patients, but a possible risk of worsening cognitive functions, although modest, may postpone or halt DBS clinical indication. In a small cohort of PD patients we have pioneered the simultaneous implantation of both the subthalamic nucleus (STN) and the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus (PPTg). Here we describe the cognitive test performance and the corresponding cortical metabolic activity, as assessed through 18-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG)-positron emission tomography (PET), of these six PD patients tested in PPTg-ON vs- PPTg-OFF condition. PPTg-ON condition (at low frequency, 25 Hz) induced better performance in tests exploring both executive and attentive domains, which were coupled with an increased glucose utilization in prefrontal and frontal bilateral cortical areas, including both lateral (i.e., BA9) and more antero-medial cortices (BA 25-32). Moreover, during PPTg-ON, a surprising increase of FDG consumption was also observed in the left ventral striatum. These data are consistent with the hypothesis of a positive effect of 25 Hz PPTg-DBS on PD patients' cognitive profile, probably due to a facilitatory effect exerted by PPTg on both associative and limbic pathways.



This review focuses on the biobehavioral factors that show robust associations with markers of inflammation and discusses the following variables: diet, smoking, coffee, alcohol, exercise, and sleep disruption. Each of these variables has been assessed in large-scale epidemiological studies, and many of them have been assessed in clinical and experimental studies as well. Treatment strategies that target biobehavioral factors have the potential to complement and enhance the benefit of anti-inflammatory medicines.

Circulating antiphospholipid antibodies (aPL) are associated with central nervous system dysfunction in antiphospholipid syndrome (APS) patients and in a mouse model of APS. We propose a logical pathway of how experimental APS (eAPS) causes brain dysfunction: binding of the antibodies to the brain endothelium evoking microthrombosis, endothelial dysfunction, and IgG leakage through the blood-brain barrier (BBB), then secondary inflammatory cell spread around blood vessels and production of cytokines by these inflammatory cells leading to further disruption of the BBB. The diffuse brain endothelial dysfunction would result in extravasation of serum proteins including APS IgG and activated thrombin, which may induce the behavioral changes observed in the APS mice. We have collected data from the mouse eAPS model which supports this hypothesis. Elucidating the mechanism of the pathogenicity of aPL in vitro and in vivo will serve as a much needed basis for developing new therapeutic modalities in this important disorder.
One hundred and fifty years have elapsed since the original discovery of the microglial cell by Virchow. While this cell type has been well studied, the role of microglia in the pathology of many central nervous system diseases still remains enigmatic. It is widely accepted that microglial-mediated inflammation contributes to the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD); however, the precise mechanisms through which these cells contribute to AD-related inflammation remains to be elucidated. In the AD brain, microglial cells are found in close association with amyloid beta (Abeta) deposits. Histological examination of AD brains as well as cell culture studies have shown that the interaction of microglia with fibrillar Abeta leads to their phenotypic activation. The conversion of these cells into a classically 'activated' phenotype results in production of chemokines, neurotoxic cytokines and reactive oxygen and nitrogen species that are deleterious to the CNS. However, microglia also exert a neuroprotective role through their ability to phagocytose Abeta particles and clear soluble forms of Abeta. These cells have been documented to play integral roles in tissue repair and inflammation, and in recent years it has been appreciated that this cell type is capable of facilitating a more complex response to pathogens by changing their activation status. A variety of new findings indicate that their role in the central nervous system is far more complex than previously appreciated. In this review we discuss the role of microglia in the normal brain and their phenotypic heterogeneity and how this may play a role in AD-related pathophysiology. We touch on what is known about their ability to recognize and clear Abeta peptides as well as more controversial topics, including various activation states of microglia and the ability of peripheral macrophages or monocytes to infiltrate the brain.
This study investigated adolescent males' decision-making under risk, and the emotional response to decision outcomes, using a probabilistic gambling task designed to evoke counterfactually mediated emotions (relief and regret). Participants were 20 adolescents (aged 9-11), 26 young adolescents (aged 12-15), 20 mid-adolescents (aged 15-18) and 17 adults (aged 25-35). All were male. The ability to maximize expected value improved with age. However, there was an inverted U-shaped developmental pattern for risk-seeking. The age at which risk-taking was highest was 14.38 years. Although emotion ratings overall did not differ across age, there was an increase between childhood and young adolescence in the strength of counterfactually mediated emotions (relief and regret) reported after receiving feedback about the gamble outcome. We suggest that continuing development of the emotional response to outcomes may be a factor contributing to adolescents' risky behaviour.
Current models in social neuroscience advance that eye contact may automatically recruit cognitive resources. Here, we directly tested this hypothesis by evaluating the distracting strength of eye contact on concurrent visual processing in the well-known Stroop's paradigm. As expected, participants showed stronger Stroop interference under concomitant eye contact as compared to closed eyes. Two control experiments allowed ruling out low-level account of this effect as well as non-specific effect of the presence of open eyes. This suggests that refraining from processing eye contact is actually as difficult as refraining from word reading in the Stroop task. Crucially, the eye contact effect was obtained while gaze was not under the direct focus of attention and the participants were faced with another powerful distracter (the incongruent word) in the task at hand. Thus, there is a cost of being watched even in circumstances where the processing of direct gaze is strongly disfavored. The present results emphasize the crucial status of eye contact in human cognition.
The ability of neurons to form a single axon and multiple dendrites underlies the directional flow of information transfer in the central nervous system. Dendrites and axons are molecularly and functionally distinct domains. Dendrites integrate synaptic inputs, triggering the generation of action potentials at the level of the soma. Action potentials then propagate along the axon, which makes presynaptic contacts onto target cells. This article reviews what is known about the cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying the ability of neurons to initiate and extend a single axon during development. Remarkably, neurons can polarize to form a single axon, multiple dendrites, and later establish functional synaptic contacts in reductionist in vitro conditions. This approach became, and remains, the dominant model to study axon initiation and growth and has yielded the identification of many molecules that regulate axon formation in vitro (Dotti et al. 1988). At present, only a few of the genes identified using in vitro approaches have been shown to be required for axon initiation and outgrowth in vivo. In vitro, axon initiation and elongation are largely intrinsic properties of neurons that are established in the absence of relevant extracellular cues. However, the importance of extracellular cues to axon initiation and outgrowth in vivo is emerging as a major theme in neural development (Barnes and Polleux 2009). In this article, we focus our attention on the extracellular cues and signaling pathways required in vivo for axon initiation and axon extension.
A major goal of modern neuroscience research is to understand the cellular and molecular processes that control the formation, function, and remodeling of chemical synapses. In this article, we discuss the numerous studies that implicate molecules initially discovered for their functions in axon guidance as critical regulators of synapse formation and plasticity. Insights from these studies have helped elucidate basic principles of synaptogenesis, dendritic spine formation, and structural and functional synapse plasticity. In addition, they have revealed interesting dual roles for proteins and cellular mechanisms involved in both axon guidance and synaptogenesis. Much like the dual involvement of morphogens in early cell fate induction and axon guidance, many guidance-related molecules continue to play active roles in controlling the location, number, shape, and strength of neuronal synapses during development and throughout the lifetime of the organism. This article summarizes key findings that link axon guidance molecules to specific aspects of synapse formation and plasticity and discusses the emerging relationship between the molecular and cellular mechanisms that control both axon guidance and synaptogenesis.
Pseudorabies virus (PRV) is a neuroinvasive virus of the herpes family that has a broad host range but does not infect higher-order primates. PRV characteristically travels along chains of synaptically connected neurons and has been used extensively for elucidating neural circuits in the peripheral and central nervous system in vivo. The recombinant virus PRV369 is an attenuated retrograde tracer that encodes G-CaMP2, a fluorescent calcium sensor protein that is stable at physiological pH and mammalian temperature. This protocol describes the use of PRV369 to express G-CaMP2 in a neuronal circuit and to monitor its activity in a living animal, specifically in the submandibular ganglia (SMG), the peripheral parasympathetic ganglia that innervate the salivary glands. The procedure describes the delivery of PRV369 to the glands and shows how SMG neurons can then be imaged post-inoculation to explore connectivity and activity.
Expression of green fluorescent protein (GFP), its more fluorescent mutant forms (e.g., EGFP [enhanced GFP]), or their fusion protein derivatives, affords a number of informative possibilities in cellular neuroscience. EGFP is a soluble protein and appears to be homogeneously distributed within the cytosol of neurons when expressed. Thus, it reveals the structure of the neuron, including the cell body, and axonal and dendritic arbors. It is also sufficiently bright to reveal detailed structures such as axonal boutons and dendritic spines. When expressed as a fusion protein, EGFP can provide information about the distribution characteristics of the proteins within neurons. Furthermore, during single-cell electrophysiological studies, such expression can direct the investigator to record from a cell carrying a foreign gene. In this protocol, we describe the use of the Sindbis pseudovirus expression system to deliver GFP to neurons. Sindbis is a member of the alphaviruses, which are plus-stranded RNA viruses. This protocol uses the DH(26S) strain, which preferentially infects neurons over glia (50:1). Two infection methods are given: one for dissociated hippocampal cultured neurons and one for organotypic hippocampal slices.
Applied neuroscientific knowledge such as brain neuroimaging has widespread application in the medical diagnostic and treatment areas. Neuroscientific progress such as cognitive neuroscience has strong implications in specific medical fields such as forensic psychiatry. Significant progress in forensic psychiatry has affected the practice of law, in which an understanding of the complex relationship among mind, brain, and behavior is becoming necessary. Forensic psychiatry is concerned with the relationship between psychiatric abnormalities and legal violations and crimes. Due to the lack of available biological criteria, assessment, evaluation and therapy in forensic psychiatry have so far been restricted to psychosocial and mental criteria of offender personality. Recent advances in nuclear radiology such as brain imaging techniques (fMRI, DT-MRI, PET SPECT) allow a closer approach to the neural correlates of personality, moral judgments and decision-making. Introduction of neurobiological criteria (based on advanced neuroimaging techniques) in the field of forensic psychiatry and establishing the rules to what extent such biological criteria will be more reliable choice in evaluating mentally ill offenders would be of fundamental value in the modern forensic psychiatry. Psychosocial and subjective criteria in forensic evaluation will be more accomplished by biopsychosocial and objective criteria. Advances in the neuroimaging techniques bring specificity to the problems underlying the application of neuroscience to criminal law.
Classifying brain white matter fibers into bundles is of growing interest in neuroscience. Quantification of diffusion characteristics inside a fiber bundle provides new insights for disease evolutions, therapy effects, and surgical interventions. In this paper, we present a novel method for segmenting fiber bundles using spherical harmonic coefficients (SHC) that describe diffusion signal obtained from High Angular Resolution Diffusion Imaging (HARDI) protocols. Based on SHC, we define a similarity measure and use it as a speed function term in level set framework. We show advantages of the proposed measure over similarity measures based on Diffusion Tensor Imaging (DTI) indices. Without any assumptions about diffusion model, we deal with diffusion signal instead of orientation distribution function (ODF) calculated using complicated mathematics, inaccurate simplifications, and time-consuming implementation. By applying the proposed algorithm on synthetic data, its superior accuracy and robustness in low SNR conditions are shown. Application of the proposed method on real HARDI MRI data also illustrates its superior performance, especially in heterogeneous diffusion areas with low traditional diffusion anisotropies.




We used event-related potentials to investigate how aging affects local contextual processing. Local context was defined as the occurrence of a short predictive series of visual stimuli before delivery of a target event. Stimuli were presented to either the left or right visual field and consisted of 15% targets (downward facing triangle) and 85% of equal numbers of three types of standards (triangles facing left, upwards and right). Recording blocks consisted of targets preceded by either randomized sequences of standards or by sequences including a three-standard predictive sequence signaling the occurrence of a subsequent target event. Subjects pressed a button in response to targets. Predictive local context affected target detection by reducing the duration of stimulus evaluation compared to detection of non-predictive random targets comparably for both young and older adults, as shown by a P3b latency shift. The peak of an earlier latency context positivity, which was seen only in the predicted compared to the random target condition, was prolonged in the older population compared to young adults. Finally, older subjects elicited a late sustained positivity in the predictive condition, not seen in the younger subjects. Taken together, these findings suggest that local contextual effects on target detection processes are altered with age.
This study examines ethnic/racial differences at the start of treatment among participants in the Treatment for Adolescents with Depression Study (TADS). African American and Latino youth were compared to Caucasian youth on symptom presentation and cognitive variables associated with depression. Contrary to hypothesis, there were no significant differences in symptom presentation as measured by the interview-based items of the Children's Depression Rating Scale--Revised (CDRS-R). However, African American and Latino youth were both rated as demonstrating more severe symptoms on the observational items of the CDRS-R compared to Caucasian youth. In terms of cognitive variables associated with depression, African Americans reported fewer negative cognitive biases compared to Caucasians, but cognitive biases were significantly correlated with depression severity across ethnic groups.
Recently, the presence of functional interaction between the opioid and cannabinoid system has been shown in various pharmacological responses. Although there is an increasing interest for the feasible therapeutic application of a co-administration of cannabinoids and opioids in some disorders (i.e. to manage pain, to modulate immune system and emotions) and the combined use of the two drugs by drug abusers is becoming largely diffuse, only few papers focused on cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying this interaction. This review updates the biochemical and molecular underpinnings of opioid and cannabinoid interaction, both within the central nervous system and periphery. The most convincing theory for the explanation of this reciprocal interaction involves (i) the release of opioid peptides by cannabinoids or endocannabinoids by opioids, (ii) the existence of a direct receptor-receptor interaction when the receptors are co-expressed in the same cells, and (iii) the interaction of their intracellular pathways. Finally, the cannabinoid/opioid interaction might be different in the brain rewarding networks and in those accounting for other pharmacological effects (antinociception, modulation of emotionality and cognitive behavior), as well as between the central nervous system and periphery. Further insights about the cannabinoid/opioid interaction could pave the way for new and promising therapeutic approaches.
Cannabinoids and opioids are known to strictly interact in many physiological and pathological functions, including addiction. The endogenous opioid system is significantly influenced by maternal or perinatal cannabinoid exposure, major changes concerning operant behaviour in adult animals. Copious data suggests that adolescence is also a particularly sensitive period of life not only for the initiation of abusing illicit drugs, but also for the effects that these drugs exert on the neural circuitries leading to drug dependence. This paper examines the role played by the age of drug exposure in the susceptibility to discriminative and reinforcing effects of both cannabinoids and opioids. We first revisited evidence of alterations in the density and functionality of mu-opioid and CB1 cannabinoid receptors in reward-related brain regions caused by either maternal, postnatal, adolescent or adult exposure to opioids and cannabinoids. Then, we reviewed behavioural evidence of the long-term consequences of exposure to opioids and cannabinoids during gestation, postnatal period, adolescence or adulthood, focusing mostly on drug discrimination and self-administration studies. Overall, evidence confirms a neurobiological convergence of the cannabinoid and opioid systems that is manifest at both receptor and behavioural levels. Although discrepant results have been reported, some data support the gateway hypothesis that adolescent cannabis exposure contributes to greater opioid intake in adulthood. However, it should be kept into consideration that in humans genetic, environmental, and social factors could influence the direct neurobiological effects of early cannabis exposure to the progression to adult drug abuse.

To date, only five drugs have been approved for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD); however, these agents impact the symptoms rather than the progression of the disease. It is well established that nerve growth factor (NGF) enhances the function and survival of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons that are vulnerable in AD. However, NGF does not cross the blood-brain barrier, and intraventricular NGF injections in animals and humans were associated with significant side effects. Adeno-associated virus (AAV)-based gene delivery is a novel technology being developed for administration of NGF to the brain to treat AD symptoms and progression. Indeed, the efficacy of ex vivo gene delivery was demonstrated in patients with AD who experienced improvements in cerebral metabolism and cognition compared with pre-operative function without adverse events. CERE-110 (AAV2-NGF), under development by Ceregene Inc, is an AAV serotype 2-based vector expressing human NGF delivered to the nucleus basalis of Meynert by stereotactic injection for the treatment of AD. Animal studies have established the preclinical efficacy of CERE-110, revealing an excellent safety profile. CERE-110 has passed phase I clinical testing and a multicenter phase II clinical trial has commenced. CERE-110 is a promising candidate for the treatment of AD.

Investigations of individual differences have become increasingly important in the cognitive neuroscience of executive control. For instance, individual variation in lateral prefrontal cortex function (and that of associated regions) has recently been used to identify contributions of executive control processes to a number of domains, including working memory capacity, anxiety, reward/motivation, and emotion regulation. However, the origins of such individual differences remain poorly understood. Recent progress toward identifying the genetic and environmental sources of variation in neural traits, in combination with progress in identifying the causal relationships between neural and cognitive processes, will be essential for developing a mechanistic understanding of executive control.
The amount of information we can actively maintain 'in mind' is very limited. This capacity limitation, known as working memory (WM) capacity, has been of great interest because of its wide scope influence on the variety of intellectual abilities. Recently, there has been an ongoing debate about how this capacity should be best characterized. One viewpoint argues that WM capacity is allocated in a discrete fashion with an upper limit of three to four representations. An alternative viewpoint argues that the capacity can be allocated in a continuous fashion with no upper limit in the number of representations. In this article, we will review recent neurobiological and behavioral evidence that has helped shape the debate regarding one of the more central mechanisms in cognitive neuroscience.
Sensory processing is often regarded as a passive process in which biological receptors like photoreceptors and mechanoreceptors transduce physical energy into a neural code. Recent findings, however, suggest that: first, most sensory processing is active, and largely determined by motor/attentional sampling routines; second, owing to rhythmicity in the motor routine, as well as to its entrainment of ambient rhythms in sensory regions, sensory inflow tends to be rhythmic; third, attentional manipulation of rhythms in sensory pathways is instrumental to perceptual selection. These observations outline the essentials of an Active Sensing paradigm, and argue for increased emphasis on the study of sensory processes as specific to the dynamic motor/attentional context in which inputs are acquired.
Recent advances indicate that the amygdala represents valence: a general appetitive/aversive affective characteristic that bears similarity to the neuroeconomic concept of value. Neurophysiological studies show that individual amygdala neurons respond differentially to a range of stimuli with positive or negative affective significance. Meanwhile, increasingly specific lesion/inactivation studies reveal that the amygdala is necessary for processes--for example, fear extinction and reinforcer devaluation--that involve updating representations of value. Furthermore, recent neuroimaging studies suggest that the human amygdala mediates performance on many reward-based decision-making tasks. The encoding of affective significance by the amygdala might be best described as a representation of state value-a representation that is useful for coordinating physiological, behavioral, and cognitive responses in an affective/emotional context.
Reinforcement learning (RL) algorithms provide powerful explanations for simple learning and decision-making behaviors and the functions of their underlying neural substrates. Unfortunately, in real-world situations that involve many stimuli and actions, these algorithms learn pitifully slowly, exposing their inferiority in comparison to animal and human learning. Here we suggest that one reason for this discrepancy is that humans and animals take advantage of structure that is inherent in real-world tasks to simplify the learning problem. We survey an emerging literature on 'structure learning'--using experience to infer the structure of a task--and how this can be of service to RL, with an emphasis on structure in perception and action.
Cognitive control refers to the ability to perform task-relevant processing in the face of other distractions or other forms of interference, in the absence of strong environmental support. It depends on the integrity of the prefrontal cortex and associated biological structures (e.g., the basal ganglia). Computational models have played an influential role in developing our understanding of this system, and we review current developments in three major areas: dynamic gating of prefrontal representations, hierarchies in the prefrontal cortex, and reward, motivation, and goal-related processing in prefrontal cortex. Models in these and other areas are advancing the field further forward.
Oscillatory fluctuations of local field potentials (LFPs) in the theta (4-8 Hz) and gamma (25-140 Hz) band are held to play a mechanistic role in various aspects of memory including the representation and off-line maintenance of events and sequences of events, the assessment of novelty, the induction of plasticity during encoding, as well as the consolidation and the retrieval of stored memories. Recent findings indicate that theta and gamma related mechanisms identified in rodent studies have significant parallels in the neurophysiology of human and non-human primate memory. This correspondence between species opens new perspectives for a mechanistic investigation of human memory function.
Learning in a constant environment, and adapting flexibly to a changing one, through changes in reinforcement contingencies or valence-free cues, depends on overlapping circuitry that interconnects the prefrontal cortex (PFC) with the striatum and is subject to several forms of neurochemical modulation. We present evidence from recent studies in animals employing electrophysiological, pharmacological and lesion techniques, and neuroimaging, neuropsychological and pharmacological investigations of healthy humans and clinical patients. Dopamine (DA) neurotransmission in the medial striatum and PFC is critical for basic reinforcement learning and the integration of negative feedback during reversal learning, whilst orbitofrontal 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) likely mediates this type of low level flexibility, perhaps by reducing interference from salient stimuli. The role of prefrontal noradrenaline (NA) in higher order flexibility indexed through attentional set-shifting has recently received significant empirical support, and similar avenues appear promising in the field of task switching.

Operant self-administration procedures are used to assess the neural basis of ethanol-seeking behavior under a wide range of experimental conditions. In general, rats do not spontaneously self-administer ethanol in pharmacologically meaningful amounts. This unit provides a step-by-step guide for training rats to self-administer quantities of ethanol that produce moderate to high blood-alcohol content. Different protocols are used for rats that are genetically heterogeneous versus rats that are selectively bred for high alcohol preference. Also, these protocols have different sets of advantages and disadvantages in terms of the ability to control for caloric intake and taste of solutions in operant testing. Basic self-administration protocols can also be altered to focus on different aspects of the motivational properties of ethanol (for example, those related to dependence). This unit provides multiple protocols that lead to alcohol intake in rats, which can be pharmacologically probed relative to a variety of control conditions.
Phage display has been extensively used to study protein-protein interactions, receptor- and antibody-binding sites, and immune responses, to modify protein properties, and to select antibodies against a wide range of different antigens. In the format most often used, a polypeptide is displayed on the surface of a filamentous phage by genetic fusion to one of the coat proteins, creating a chimeric coat protein, and coupling phenotype (the protein) to genotype (the gene within). As the gene encoding the chimeric coat protein is packaged within the phage, selection of the phage on the basis of the binding properties of the polypeptide displayed on the surface simultaneously results in the isolation of the gene encoding the polypeptide. This unit describes the background to the technique, and illustrates how it has been applied to a number of different problems, each of which has its neurobiological counterparts. Although this overview concentrates on the use of filamentous phage, which is the most popular platform, other systems are also described.
Interactions between tumor cells and their microenvironment have been shown to play a very significant role in the initiation, progression, and invasiveness of cancer. These tumor-stromal interactions are capable of altering the delivery and effectiveness of therapeutics into the tumor and are also known to influence future resistance and re-growth after treatment. Here we review recent advances in the understanding of the tumor microenvironment and its response to oncolytic viral therapy. The multifaceted environmental response to viral therapy can influence viral infection, replication, and propagation within the tumor. Recent studies have unveiled the complicated temporal changes in the tumor vasculature post-oncolytic virus (OV) treatment, and their impact on tumor biology. Similarly, the secreted extracellular matrix in solid tumors can affect both infection and spread of the therapeutic virus. Together, these complex changes in the tumor microenvironment also modulate the activation of the innate antiviral host immune response, leading to quick and efficient viral clearance. In order to combat these detrimental responses, viruses have been combined with pharmacological adjuvants and &quot;armed&quot; with therapeutic genes in order to suppress the pernicious environmental conditions following therapy. In this review we will discuss the impact of the tumor environment on viral therapy and examine some of the recent literature investigating methods of modulating this environment to enhance oncolysis.
The systemic administration of oncolytic virus (OV) is often inefficient due to clearance of the virus by host defense mechanism and spurious targeting of non-cancer tissues through the bloodstream. Cell mediated OV delivery could hide the virus from host defenses and direct them toward tumors: Mesenchymal and neural stem cells have been described to possess tumor-homing ability as well as the capacity to deliver OVs. In this review, we will focus on approaches where OV and carrier cells are utilized for cancer therapy. Effective cellular internalization and replication of OVs need to occur both in cancer and carrier cells. We thus will discuss the current challenges faced by the use of OV delivery via carrier cells.

The parasympathetic reflex circuit is controlled by three basic neurons. In the vertebrate head, the sensory, and pre- and postganglionic neurons that comprise each circuit have stereotypic positions along the anteroposterior (AP) axis, suggesting that the circuit arises from a common developmental plan. Here, we show that precursors of the VIIth circuit are initially aligned along the AP axis, where the placode-derived sensory neurons provide a critical &quot;guidepost&quot; through which preganglionic axons and their neural crest-derived postganglionic targets navigate before reaching their distant target sites. In the absence of the placodal sensory ganglion, preganglionic axons terminate and the neural crest fated for postganglionic neurons undergo apoptosis at the site normally occupied by the placodal sensory ganglion. The stereotypic organization of the parasympathetic cranial sensory-motor circuit thus emerges from the initial alignment of its precursors along the AP axis, with the placodal sensory ganglion coordinating the formation of the motor pathway.
Neurotrophic factors play important roles in the development and function of both neuronal and glial elements of the central and peripheral nervous systems. Their functional diversity is in part based on their ability to interact with alternative complexes of receptor molecules. This review focuses on our current understanding of the mechanisms that govern the assembly and activation of neurotrophic factor receptor complexes. The realization that many, if not the majority, of these complexes exist in a preassembled form at the plasma membrane has forced the revision of classical ligand-mediated oligomerization models, and led to the discovery of novel mechanisms of receptor activation and generation of signaling diversity which are likely to be shared by many different classes of receptors.
Recent evidence suggests that neuronal plasticity plays an important role in the recovery from depression. Antidepressant drugs and electroconvulsive shock treatment increase the expression of several molecules, which are associated with neuronal plasticity, in particular the neurotrophin BDNF and its receptor TrkB. Furthermore, these treatments increase neurogenesis and synaptic numbers in several brain areas. Conversely, depression, at least in its severe form, is associated with reduced volumes of the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex and in at least some cases these neurodegenerative signs can be attenuated by successful treatment. Such observations suggest a central role for neuronal plasticity in depression and the antidepressant effect, and also implicate BDNF signaling as a mediator of this plasticity. The antidepressant fluoxetine can reactivate developmental-like neuronal plasticity in the adult visual cortex, which, under appropriate environmental guidance, leads to the rewiring of a developmentally dysfunctional neural network. These observations suggest that the simple form of the neurotrophic hypothesis of depression, namely, that deficient levels of neurotrophic support underlies mood disorders and increases in these neurotrophic factors to normal levels brings about mood recovery, may not sufficiently explain the complex process of recovery from depression. This review discusses recent data on the role of BDNF and its receptors in depression and the antidepressant response and suggests a model whereby the effects of antidepressant treatments could be explained by a reactivation of activity-dependent and BDNF-mediated cortical plasticity, which in turn leads to the adjustment of neuronal networks to better adapt to environmental challenges.
Age-related patterns of sensitivity to appetitive and aversive stimuli seemingly have deep evolutionary roots, with marked developmental transformations seen during adolescence in a number of relatively ancient brain systems critical for motivating and directing reward-related behaviors. Using a simple animal model of adolescence in the rat, adolescents have been shown to be more sensitive than their adult counterparts to positive rewarding effects of alcohol, other drugs, and certain natural stimuli, while being less sensitive to the aversive properties of such stimuli. Adolescent-typical alcohol sensitivities may be exacerbated further by a history of prior stress or alcohol exposure as well as by genetic vulnerabilities, permitting relatively high levels of adolescent alcohol use and perhaps an increased probability for the emergence of abuse disorders. A number of potential (albeit tentative) implications of these basic research findings for prevention science are considered.
The magnitude and duration of the hormonal stress response change dramatically throughout an organism's lifespan. Although much is known about the factors that modulate stress reactivity during adulthood and how neonatal development and aging influence stress responsiveness, we know relatively little about how stress reactivity changes during the juvenile to adult transition. Recent studies in adolescent boys and girls have suggested that stress is an important factor contributing to an individual's vulnerability to various neuropsychological dysfunctions, including anxiety, depression, and drug abuse. Thus, understanding how exposure to stressors during this crucial period of development lead to negative consequences is of paramount importance. A growing body of literature indicates that pubertal organisms react differentially, both physiologically and behaviorally, to a stressor compared to adults. The purpose of this review, therefore, is to discuss the recent findings regarding the pubertal maturation of stress reactivity, while also highlighting future research directions that will aid in our understanding of stress and adolescent mental health and development.


The efficacy of stimulant treatment in patients with substance use disorders and comorbid attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) has been tested for cocaine and alcohol dependence but so far no studies have been conducted in amphetamine dependent individuals. The present trial was a pilot study aiming to test the feasibility of treating amphetamine dependent patients with comorbid ADHD with central stimulant medication. The study was a double-blind, placebo controlled trial with parallel groups design comparing the efficacy of a fixed dose (72mg) of OROS methylphenidate (MPH) with placebo (PL) in reducing ADHD symptoms in currently abstinent adults with amphetamine dependence and ADHD. Twenty-four treatment seeking patients who met the DSM IV criteria for amphetamine dependence and ADHD were randomized to MPH/PL. The trial was conducted at an outpatient facility with twice weekly visits, measuring ADHD symptoms and drug use. Patients rated their ADHD symptoms on a weekly basis and provided supervised urine specimens for drug toxicology twice weekly. All patients participated in weekly sessions of a skills training programme. Both the groups significantly reduced their self-rated ADHD symptoms during the 12-week treatment but there was no difference between the two treatment arms. Drug use, both measured by urine toxicology and self-report did not differ between the groups. No difference was found between the two groups with regards to craving for amphetamine or in retention in treatment. Larger studies with higher doses combined with individual dosage and longer follow-up periods are warranted.
G protein-coupled receptors (GPCR) are the major site of action for endogenous hormones and neurotransmitters. Early drug discovery efforts focused on determining whether ligands could engage G protein coupling and subsequently activate or inhibit cognate &quot;second messengers.&quot; Gone are those simple days as we now realize that receptors can also couple arrestins. As we delve into the complexity of ligand-directed signaling and receptosome scaffolds, we are faced with what may seem like endless possibilities triggered by receptor-ligand mediated events.
A higher throughput method of screening for the metabolism dependent inhibition of 56 marketed drugs was evaluated and compared data from the PHLM assay (using midazolam as probe) with Cypex assay (using diethoxyfluoresin (DEF) as probe) for CYP3A4 by using 96 well plate. Also 27 marketed drugs were selected to evaluate the reproducibility of Cypex assay using 7-benzyloxyquinoline (7-BQ) as second probe substrate for CYP3A4. Furthermore Cypex CYP2D6 was used to evaluate the reproducibility of this system using 4-methylaminomethyl-7-methoxycoumarin (MMC) as probe substrate with 15 marketed drugs. The fold change was estimated using the fold change obtained from triplicates experiments in same day or different days. All replicates in agreement (i.e. all positive or all negative) for &gt;80% of compounds. The IC50 values for the two assays closely matched only for 13 compounds (23%). Only 5 of the variant 56 compounds had higher IC50 values with the recombinant enzymes, whereas 38 had lower IC50 values with the recombinant cypex CYP3A4 enzyme. The Cypex assay is comparable to PHLM assay in terms of predictivity and reproducibility. The Cypex assay therefore offers a higher throughput, reproducible alternative to PHLM for placement earlier in the lead optimisation process. In conclusion, the results obtained from a fluorescence-based method using Cypex CYP3A4 reflect mostly those obtained from conventional assay using human liver microsomes. This method provides more rapid and reliable detection of MDI inhibitors and may be useful in drug discovery.



It is well established that emotion plays a key role in human social and economic decision making. The recent literature on emotion regulation (ER), however, highlights that humans typically make efforts to control emotion experiences. This leaves open the possibility that decision effects previously attributed to acute emotion may be a consequence of acute ER strategies such as cognitive reappraisal and expressive suppression. In Study 1, we manipulated ER of laboratory-induced fear and disgust, and found that the cognitive reappraisal of these negative emotions promotes risky decisions (reduces risk aversion) in the Balloon Analogue Risk Task and is associated with increased performance in the prehunch/hunch period of the Iowa Gambling Task. In Study 2, we found that naturally occurring negative emotions also increase risk aversion in Balloon Analogue Risk Task, but the incidental use of cognitive reappraisal of emotions impedes this effect. We offer evidence that the increased effectiveness of cognitive reappraisal in reducing the experience of emotions underlies its beneficial effects on decision making.

The real-time electrochemical detection of catecholamine secretion from murine adrenal slices using fast-scan cyclic voltammetry (FSCV) and amperometry at carbon fiber microelectrodes is described. Bright-field and immunofluorescent microscopy supported that chromaffin cells in the adrenal medulla are organized into clusters and positively stain for tyrosine hydroxylase confirming that they are catecholaminergic. Spontaneous exocytotic catecholamine events were observed inside chromaffin cell clusters with both FSCV and amperometry and were modulated by the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor antagonist hexamethonium and low extracellular calcium. Reintroduction of extracellular calcium and pressure ejection of acetylcholine caused the frequency of spikes to increase back to predrug levels. Electrical stimulation caused the synchronous secretion from multiple cells within the gland, which were modulated by nicotinic acetylcholine receptors but not muscarinic receptors or gap junctions. Furthermore, electrically stimulated release was abolished with perfusion of low extracellular calcium or tetrodotoxin, indicating that the release requires electrical excitability. An extended waveform was used to study the spontaneous and stimulated release events to determine their chemical content by FSCV. Consistent with total content analysis and immunohistochemical studies, about two thirds of the cells studied spontaneously secreted epinephrine, whereas one third secreted norepinephrine. Whereas adrenergic sites contained mostly epinephrine during electrical stimulation, noradrenergic sites contained a mixture of the catecholamines showing the heterogeneity of the adrenal medulla.



We have created the Epilepsy Genetic Association Database (epiGAD, http://www.epigad.org, an online database of epilepsy genetic association studies. A systematic search using several search engines identified 165 studies. Herein we analyze the types of studies available, the sample sizes used, and the strength of the findings. Common questions examined were susceptibility to idiopathic generalized epilepsy, focal epilepsy, or febrile seizures, and pharmacogenomic approaches to drug-resistant epilepsy. Sample sizes were generally small; 80% of studies had 200 or fewer cases, although more recent studies published from 2005-2008 incorporated slightly larger sample sizes. No association was judged as &quot;strong&quot; using current criteria for assessing genetic associations--this is probably due to inadequate sample sizes. Sample sizes need to increase, either by research collaboration or via systematic reviews and meta-analyses. We believe epiGAD will facilitate future meta-analyses.
We have investigated seven voltage-gated sodium channel genes for association with idiopathic generalized epilepsy (IGE). Probands and control DNA were grouped into pools and used to screen 85 single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), mostly HapMap SNPs tagging the common variation in these genes. Twelve SNPs exhibiting an allele frequency difference between pools were genotyped individually in our sample of 232 probands, 313 controls, and 95 parent-proband trios. Two SNPs, in SCN1A and SCN8A, were associated by allele and genotype at nominal level of significance, but were not significant after Bonferroni correction. Two SCN2A SNPs (rs3943809 and rs16850331) were associated by case-control with a subgroup with IGE and history of febrile seizures and also by transmission disequilibrium test (TDT) in parent-proband trios. Both SNPs are part of a linkage disequilibrium (LD) cluster of 38 SNPs, but none are obvious functional variants. The association of rs3943809 with the febrile seizure subgroup (p = 0.0004) remains significant after the conservative Bonferroni correction for multiple testing.

To explore the mechanism underlying the development of learning deficits in patients with epilepsy, we generated a mouse model for temporal lobe epilepsy by intraperitoneally injecting mice with pilocarpine with lithium chloride, and investigated time-dependent changes in both contextual fear memory of those model mice and long-term potentiation (LTP) in hippocampal CA1 neurons 1 day, 2 weeks, and 6 weeks after the onset of status epilepticus (SE). Fear memory formation did not change 1 day and 2 weeks after the onset of SE, but was significantly reduced after 6 weeks. Induction of LTP was enhanced 1 day after the onset of SE, but returned to the normal level 2 weeks later, and was almost completely attenuated after 6 weeks. The enhancement of LTP was accompanied by an increase in output responses of excitatory postsynaptic potentials, whereas suppression of LTP was accompanied by alteration of the ratio of paired pulse facilitation. These results indicate that time-dependent changes of LTP induction have a causal role in the development of learning deficits of epilepsy patients.
The objective of the study described here was to evaluate the efficacy, tolerability, and cognitive effects of levetiracetam (LEV) in patients with seizures and Alzheimer's disease (AD). This was a prospective, randomized, three-arm parallel-group, case-control study of 95 patients taking LEV (n=38), phenobarbital (PB) (n=28), and lamotrigine (LTG) (n=29). A 4-week dose adjustment was followed by a 12-month evaluation period. The three groups were compared to a control group (n=68) to evaluate cognitive effects of the antiepileptic drugs. We examined drug effects cross-sectionally at baseline, 6 months, and 12 months. There were no significant differences in efficacy among the three AEDs. LEV caused fewer adverse events than the other AEDs. PB produced persistent negative cognitive side effects. LEV was associated with improved cognitive performance, specifically attention level and oral fluency items. LTG had a better effect on mood. LEV had a benign neuropsychological side effect profile, making it a cognitively safe drug to use for controlling established seizures in elderly patients with Alzheimer's disease.
Posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome (PRES) is known to occur after solid organ transplantation, and is caused by immunosuppressive agents such as tacrolimus. PRES onset usually occurs within the first 2months after liver transplantation. Clinical findings include seizures, headache, focal neurological deficits, visual disturbances, and altered mental status. These are associated with characteristic imaging features of subcortical white matter lesions on brain MRI. Atypical localizations of this posterior leukoencephalopathy have been reported. Expeditious recognition of the syndrome may lead to a complete recovery. Abnormalities of EEG during follow-up might be associated with unfavorable seizure outcome, even when neuroimaging changes resolve. We report a case of late-onset PRES with atypical localization following liver transplantation. The patient developed epilepsy despite resolution of MRI lesions at 8 months of follow-up. EEG was a prognostic factor of seizure persistence, suggesting an incomplete recovery of brain lesions in contrast to neuroimaging findings.
In the present study, the effects of Bacopa monnieri and its active component, bacoside A, on motor deficit and alterations of GABA receptor functional regulation in the cerebellum of epileptic rats were investigated. Scatchard analysis of [(3)H]GABA and [(3)H]bicuculline in the cerebellum of epileptic rats revealed a significant decrease in B(max) compared with control. Real-time polymerase chain reaction amplification of GABA(A) receptor subunits-GABA(Aalpha1), GABA(Aalpha5,) and GABA(Adelta)-was downregulated (P&lt;0.001) in the cerebellum of epileptic rats compared with control rats. Epileptic rats exhibit deficits in radial arm and Y-maze performance. Treatment with B. monnieri and bacoside A reversed these changes to near-control levels. Our results suggest that changes in GABAergic activity, motor learning, and memory deficit are induced by the occurrence of repetitive seizures. Treatment with B. monnieri and bacoside A prevents the occurrence of seizures thereby reducing the impairment of GABAergic activity, motor learning, and memory deficit.
The objective of this study was to investigate, under circumstances of routine care, the impact of paediatric delirium (PD) on length of stay in the paediatric intensive care unit (PICU) as well as on direct financial costs. A five-year prospective observational study (2002-2007) was carried out in a tertiary eight-bed PICU in the Netherlands. Critically ill children aged 1 to 18 years who were acutely, non-electively and consecutively admitted to the PICU and detected as having PD in routine care were compared to critically ill children aged 1 to 18 years without signs of PD. PD, population characteristics and severity of illness at admission were used as predictors for length of PICU stay. Differences in length of stay yielded short-term, direct medical costs associated with PD. Forty-nine children with and 98 children without PD were included. PD prolonged length of PICU stay with 2.39 days, independent of severity of illness, age, gender, mechanical ventilation and medical indication for admission (B = 0.38, P &lt; 0.001). PD increased direct medical costs with 1.5%. The results suggest a negative prognostic influence of PD on duration of PICU stay in routine care, resulting in an increase of direct medical costs.
Stimulants used to treat attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) have been well researched, but comparisons among stimulants are hindered by the absence of direct comparative trials. The goal of this work was to compare the efficacy of methylphenidate and amfetamine formulations through a meta-analysis of double-blind placebo-controlled trials. We analyzed recent published literature on the stimulant therapy of ADHD to describe the variability of drug-placebo effect sizes. A literature search was conducted to identify double-blind, placebo-controlled studies of ADHD in children and adolescents published after 1979. Meta-analysis regression assessed the influence of medication type and study design features on medication effects. Twenty-three trials met criteria and were included in this meta-analysis. These trials studied 11 drugs using 19 different outcome measures of hyperactive, inattentive, or impulsive behavior. We found significant differences between amfetamine and methylphenidate products, even after correcting for study design features that might have confounded the results. Our analyses indicate that effect sizes for amfetamine products are significantly, albeit moderately, greater than those for methylphenidate. We found that most measures of effect from all studies were statistically significant. Our findings suggest that amfetamine products may be moderately more efficacious than methylphenidate products, even after controlling for potentially confounding study design features. This difference in effect size may be due to differences between amfetamine and methylphenidate in the molecular mechanisms involved in facilitating the dopaminergic neurotransmission.




Neonatal seizures are associated with a high likelihood of adverse neurological outcomes, including mental retardation, behavioral disorders, and epilepsy. Early seizures typically involve the neocortex, and post-neonatal epilepsy is often of neocortical origin. However, our understanding of the consequences of neonatal seizures for neocortical function is limited. In the present study, we show that neonatal seizures induced by flurothyl result in markedly enhanced susceptibility of the neocortex to seizure-like activity. This change occurs in young rats studied weeks after the last induced seizure and in adult rats studied months after the initial seizures. Neonatal seizures resulted in reductions in the amplitude of spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents and the frequency of miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents, and significant increases in the amplitude and frequency of spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents (sEPSCs) and in the frequency of miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (mEPSCs) in pyramidal cells of layer 2/3 of the somatosensory cortex. The selective N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist D-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate eliminated the differences in amplitude and frequency of sEPSCs and mEPSCs in the control and flurothyl groups, suggesting that NMDA receptors contribute significantly to the enhanced excitability seen in slices from rats that experienced recurrent neonatal seizures. Taken together, our results suggest that recurrent seizures in infancy result in a persistent enhancement of neocortical excitability.
Stem or progenitor cells acquire specific regional identities during early ontogenesis. Nonetheless, there is evidence that cells heterotopically transplanted to neurogenic regions of the developing or mature central nervous system may switch their fate to adopt host-specific phenotypes. Here, we isolated progenitor cells from different germinative sites along the neuraxis where GABAergic interneurons are produced (telencephalic subventricular zone, medial ganglionic eminence, ventral mesencephalon and dorsal spinal cord), and grafted them to the prospective white matter of the postnatal rat cerebellum, at the time when local interneurons are generated. The phenotype acquired by transplanted cells was assessed by different criteria, including expression of region-specific transcription factors, acquisition of morphological and neurochemical traits, and integration in the cerebellar cytoarchitecture. Regardless of their origin, all the different types of donor cells engrafted in the cerebellar parenchyma and developed mature neurons that shared some morphological and neurochemical features with local inhibitory interneurons, particularly in the deep nuclei. Nevertheless, transplanted cells failed to activate cerebellar-specific regulatory genes. In addition, their major structural features, the expression profiles of type-specific markers and the laminar placement in the recipient cortex did not match those of endogenous interneurons generated during the same developmental period. Therefore, although exogenous cells are influenced by the cerebellar milieu and show remarkable capabilities for adapting to the foreign environment, they essentially fail to switch their fate, integrate in the host neurogenic mechanisms and adopt clear-cut cerebellar identities.
Short-term synaptic plasticity undergoes important age-dependent changes that have crucial implications during the development of the nervous system. Paired-pulse facilitation is a form of short-term synaptic plasticity by which the response to the second of two temporally-paired stimuli is larger and more reliable than the response to the first stimulus. In this study, a paired-pulse minimal stimulation technique was used to measure the probability and quantal amplitude of synaptic release at hippocampal synapses from 12-16-day-old (young) and 7-9-week-old (adult) rats. In order to assess the contribution of temperature-dependent processes, we carried out experiments at both room temperature and at near physiological temperature. We report here that neither temperature nor maturation affected the low basal evoked release probability and quantal amplitude of release. However, the warmer temperature revealed a unique developmental increase in facilitated evoked release probability and quantal amplitude of release. As a result, although both basal evoked release and facilitated release are rather unreliable in synapses from young animals, the maturation process at near physiological temperature generates a phenotype with unreliable basal evoked release and highly reliable facilitated release.
The presence of high concentrations of glutamate in the extracellular fluid following brain trauma or ischaemia may contribute substantially to subsequent impairments of neuronal function. In this study, glutamate was applied to hippocampal slices for several minutes, producing over-depolarization, which was reflected in an initial loss of evoked population potential size in the CA1 region. Orthodromic population spikes recovered only partially over the following 60 min, whereas antidromic spikes and excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) showed greater recovery, implying a change in EPSP-spike coupling (E-S coupling), which was confirmed by intracellular recording from CA1 pyramidal cells. The recovery of EPSPs was enhanced further by dizocilpine, suggesting that the long-lasting glutamate-induced change in E-S coupling involves NMDA receptors. This was supported by experiments showing that when isolated NMDA-receptor-mediated EPSPs were studied in isolation, there was only partial recovery following glutamate, unlike the composite EPSPs. The recovery of orthodromic population spikes and NMDA-receptor-mediated EPSPs following glutamate was enhanced by the adenosine A1 receptor blocker DPCPX, the A2A receptor antagonist SCH58261 or adenosine deaminase, associated with a loss of restoration to normal of the glutamate-induced E-S depression. The results indicate that the long-lasting depression of neuronal excitability following recovery from glutamate is associated with a depression of E-S coupling. This effect is partly dependent on activation of NMDA receptors, which modify adenosine release or the sensitivity of adenosine receptors. The results may have implications for the use of A1 and A2A receptor ligands as cognitive enhancers or neuroprotectants.
Systemic injections of kainic acid (KA) cause epileptic seizures with delayed neuronal damage in the limbic system, particularly in the hippocampus. KA excitotoxicity activates complex signal transduction events that trigger apoptotic cell death. The c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) pathway plays an important role in cell death, and the peptide D-JNKI1, a competitive JNK inhibitor, is a potent neuroprotective agent. To analyse the role of JNK and the effects of D-JNKI1 administration on excitotoxic neuronal death, we induced epileptic seizures by intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection of KA in adult male Sprague-Dawley rats; a group of rats received i.p. D-JNKI1 2 h after KA. KA caused massive cell death in the hippocampus: in Nissl-stained sections, stereological counts showed a significant decrease in neuronal density in all CA fields, both at 1 and 5 days after seizures, which was partially prevented by D-JNKI1 treatment. These results were confirmed by counts of degenerating neurons in CA3 in FluoroJade B-stained sections. Seizure activity also induced marked gliosis as observed with glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) immunohistochemistry. We also analysed c-Jun activation as a target of JNK and central transcriptional effector in the adult rat brain following KA injection. Phospho-c-Jun immunoreactivity was absent in the hippocampus of untreated animals, whereas strong nuclear neuronal labeling could be observed, starting from 3 h after KA administration, in microtubule-associated protein-2-positive neurons but not in GFAP-positive astrocytes. D-JNKI1 treatment also reduced the positivity for phospho-c-Jun in the hippocampus, thus confirming the specificity of the peptide in blocking JNK. Therefore, JNK is a promising target for blocking seizure-induced cell death.
Few and controversial data are available in the literature regarding the presence of lymphatic vessels in the human dental pulp. The present study was designed to examine morphologically the existence of a lymph drainage system in human dental pulp. Human dental pulp and skin sections were immunohistochemically stained with specific antibodies for lymphatic endothelium (D2-40, LYVE-1, VEGFR-3 [vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-3], and Prox-1), with the pan-endothelial markers CD31 and von Willebrand factor (vWF), and with the blood-specific marker CD34. Several blood vessels were identified in human pulps and skin. Lymphatic vessels were found in all human skin samples but in none of the pulps examined. Western blotting performed on human dermis and on pulps treated with collagenase (to remove odontoblasts) confirmed these results. Transmission electron microscopy indicated that vessels which, by light microscopy, appeared to be initial lymphatic vessels had no anchoring filaments or discontinuous basement membrane, both of which are typical ultrastructural characteristics of lymphatic vessels. These results suggest that under normal conditions human dental pulp does not contain true lymphatic vessels. The various theories about dental pulp interstitial fluid circulation should be revised accordingly.
Bortezomib is a proteasome inhibitor showing strong antitumor activity against many tumors, primarily multiple myeloma. Bortezomib-induced neuropathic pain is the main side effect and the dose-limiting factor of the drug in clinical practice. In order to obtain a pre-clinical model to reproduce the characteristic pain symptoms in bortezomib-treated patients, we developed an animal model of bortezomib-induced nociceptive sensory neuropathy. In this study, bortezomib (0.15 or 0.20mg/kg) was administered to Wistar rats three times/week for 8 weeks, followed by a 4 week follow-up period. At the end of the treatment period a significant decrease in weight gain was observed in the treated groups vs. controls, and hematological and histopathological parameters were evaluated. After the treatment period, both doses of bortezomib induced a severe reduction in nerve conduction velocity and demonstrated a dose-cumulative effect of the drug. The sensory behavioral assessment showed the onset of mechanical allodynia, while no effect on thermal perception was observed. Sciatic nerves and dorsal root ganglia (DRG) were collected at the end of the 8-week treatment and at the end of the follow-up period. The pathological examination revealed a dose-dependent axonopathy of the unmyelinated fibers in nerves of treated animals. No pathological alteration in most of DRG satellite cells and neurons was observed. Therefore, this animal model may be useful for studying the neurotoxicity and pain onset mechanisms related to bortezomib treatment.

Animal literature suggests an important role for histamine in memory. In humans, this hypothesis has been scarcely tested and results from studies that have addressed this are conflicting. Second, impaired memory performance may be secondary to sedation. This study aimed to determine whether a centrally active antihistamine impairs memory performance and to dissociate such effects from sedation. Eighteen healthy volunteers received single oral doses of dexchlorpheniramine 4 mg, lorazepam 1mg and placebo in a 3-way, double blind, crossover designed study. The active control lorazepam impaired episodic- and working memory performance and increased sedation, while dexchlorpheniramine only increased sedation.

Chemoprevention of gastrointestinal tumors uses natural or synthetic agents to arrest, retard or reverse the carcinogenesis process. The prospect of prevention is clearly appealing, especially for colorectal cancer (CRC), that represents the second most common cause of cancer-related death in the Western world. Aspirin is the best studied chemopreventive agent for CRC, with randomized trials demonstrating its efficacy in reducing recurrence of colorectal adenomas in higher risk patients. Optimal chemoprevention requires long-term use and high dose of aspirin that may increase the risk of gastrointestinal bleeding. Other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and selective cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitors also reduce the incidence of colonic adenomas, but they are associated with gastrointestinal harms and important cardiovascular events, respectively. Furthermore, cumulative epidemiological and observational data suggest the potential role of hormones as a chemoprotective agent for CRC. The usefulness of folic acid, calcium, and vitamin D awaits further evaluation. Interestingly, combining different agents may maximize effectiveness while limiting drug toxicity. Although many agents have shown positive results in the field of chemoprevention, it cannot yet be accepted as standard medical practice for CRC. In the present review we discuss the most promising agents in CRC chemoprevention, together with their potential mechanisms of action in tumor inhibition.
Cervical spine injuries after diving into private swimming pools can lead to dramatic consequences. We reviewed 34 patients hospitalized in our center between 1996 and 2006. Data was collected from their initial admission and from follow-up appointments. The injuries were sustained by young men in 97% (mean age 27) and the majority happened during the summer (88%). Fractures were at C5-C7 in 70%. American Spinal Injury Association class (ASIA) on admission was A for 8 patients, B for 4, C for 4, D for 1, and E for 17. There were 23 surgical spine stabilizations. Final ASIA class was A for 6 patients, B for 1, C for 3, D for 5, and E for 18. The mean duration of hospitalization was 21.3 days in our neurosurgical center (mean overall cost: 36,000 Euros/patient) plus 10.6 months in rehabilitation center for the 15 patients admitted who had an ASIA class A to C. Mean overall direct cost for a patient with class A is almost 300,000 Euros, compared to around 10,000 Euros for patients with class D and E. In addition, a profound impact on personal and professional life was seen in many cases including 11 divorces and 7 job losses. Dangerous diving into swimming pools can result in spinal injuries with drastic consequences, including permanent physical disability and a profound impact on socio-professional status. Moreover, there are significant financial costs to society. Better prevention strategies should be implemented to reduce the impact of this public health problem.
Age-related slowing is well documented but its origin remains unclear. A first validation study (Study 1) performed in 46 participants examined the effect of attention allocation (manipulated through a dual task) on various portions of individual simple reaction time (SRT) distribution (minimum, centile 5, centile 50, and centile 95 RTs). It showed that attention 'deprivation' due to a secondary task is not uniform throughout the distribution but impaired mainly the ability to produce a large number of fast responses. Study 2 investigated in 88 healthy participants age-related slowing of perceptual, motor, decision, and attentional processes using SRT and choice reaction time (CRT), finger tapping, and visual inspection time tests. It showed that the majority of SRT slowing after the age of 40 is due to lengthening of centile 5 RT, suggesting perceptuomotor slowing, an interpretation supported by longer visual inspection time and lower tapping frequency. After 60 years, SRT lengthening was due to a further lengthening of the centile 5-centile 50 SRT index, suggesting the participation of attentional decline. These findings support the hypothesis that age-related slowing in simple repetitive tasks is mainly related to slowing at the stage of perceptuomotor processes, and after 60 years, to additional decline of attention.
Sensory hair cells of the inner ear are responsible for translating auditory or vestibular stimuli into electrical energy that can be perceived by the nervous system. Although hair cells are exquisitely mechanically sensitive, they can be easily damaged by excessive stimulation by ototoxic drugs and by the effects of aging. In mammals, auditory hair cells are never replaced, such that cumulative damage to the ear causes progressive and permanent deafness. In contrast, non-mammalian vertebrates are capable of replacing lost hair cells, which has led to efforts to understand the molecular and cellular basis of regenerative responses in different vertebrate species. In this review, we describe recent progress in understanding the limits to hair cell regeneration in mammals and discuss the obstacles that currently exist for therapeutic approaches to hair cell replacement.
Vision of the body is known to affect somatosensory perception (e.g. proprioception or tactile discrimination). However, it is unknown whether visual information about one's own body size can influence bodily action. We tested this by measuring the maximum grip aperture (MGA) parameter of grasping while eight subjects viewed a real size, enlarged or shrunken image of their hand reaching to grasp a cylinder. In the enlarged view condition, the MGA decreased relative to real size view, as if the grasping movement was actually executed with a physically larger hand, thus requiring a smaller grip aperture to grasp the cylinder. Interestingly, MGA remained smaller even after visual feedback was removed. In contrast, no effect was found for the reduced view condition. This asymmetry may reflect the fact that enlargement of body parts is experienced more frequently than shrinkage, notably during normal growth. In conclusion, vision of the body can significantly and persistently affect the internal model of the body used for motor programming.
Japanese is a free word-order language, and allows both subject-object-verb (SOV) and object-subject-verb (OSV) orders. Our previous study using near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) imaging revealed that OSV sentences induce more activation in the left frontal lobe than SOV sentences. The present study develops our previous experiment: (1) by adopting an event-related design, and (2) by using sentences involving the adverb naze 'why', which plays a prominent role in recent linguistic studies. The results of our new experiment indicated that the cerebral activation in O why SV sentences was significantly larger than that in S why OV sentences, in the right anterior prefrontal region, which is consistent with the assumption that O why SV order is derived from S why OV order. We speculate that the activation observed in the anterior prefrontal cortex during the processing of the sentences involving 'why' might be due to the processing of higher-order function in the cerebral cortex.
While much is known about sequential effects in motor timing, less is understood about whether movement parameters such as force show sequential dependencies. In this study, we examined the effect of timing constraints on repetitive unimanual force production sequences. Ten healthy participants produced a series of pinch grip forces in time to a metronome and to visually specified force amplitudes. Either visual feedback of force produced or the auditory metronome removed 10 s into the experimental trial, with participants performing continued responses for the remaining 20 s. In the continuation trials, a negative lag-1 autocorrelation in the inter-response intervals (IRIs) was observed as is commonly seen in motor timing tasks. However, removal of visual feedback resulted in a systematic increase in mean force output through the course of the trial, resulting in positive lag-1 autocorrelation values. An interaction was found between mean IRI and peak force (PF) magnitude, with greater force variability seen for the larger intervals. However, the imposition of dual force and timing constraints had no effect either on the underlying variability of the PF or on the IRIs. The results are discussed in the context of force and time being independently specified components of a generalized motor program.
Chronic stress causes insensitivity to rewards (anhedonia) in rats, reflected by the absence of anticipatory behavior for a sucrose-reward, which can be reversed by antidepressant treatment or repeated announced transfer to an enriched cage. It was, however, not clear whether the highly rewarding properties of the enriched cage alone caused this reversal or whether the anticipation of this reward as such had an additional effect. Therefore, the present study compared the consequences of the announcement of a reward to the mere effect of a reward alone with respect to their efficacy to counteract the consequences of chronic stress. Two forms of synaptic plasticity, long-term potentiation and long-term depression were investigated in area CA1 of the hippocampus. This was done in socially stressed rats (induced by defeat and subsequent long-term individual housing), socially stressed rats that received a reward (short-term enriched housing) and socially stressed rats to which this reward was announced by means of a stimulus that was repeatedly paired to the reward. The results were compared to corresponding control rats. We show that announcement of enriched housing appeared to have had an additional effect compared to the enriched housing per se as indicated by a significant higher amount of LTP. In conclusion, announced short-term enriched housing has a high and long-lasting counteracting efficacy on stress-induced alterations of hippocampal synaptic plasticity. This information is important for counteracting the consequences of chronic stress in both human and captive rats.
Integrins mediate the interaction between cells and extracellular matrix by assembling adhesive structures that need to be dynamically modulated to allow cell motility. We have recently identified liprin-alpha1 as an essential regulator of integrin dynamics required for efficient cell motility. Here we investigated the effects of liprin-alpha1 expression on beta1 integrin receptors. We found that increased levels of liprin-alpha1 affected the localization of inactive, low-affinity integrins, while increasing the average size of beta1 integrin-positive focal adhesions. Although a direct interaction between beta1 integrins and liprin-alpha1 could not be revealed biochemically, a striking colocalization between redistributed inactive beta1 integrins and liprin-alpha1 was observed. The tight association of overexpressed and endogenous liprin-alpha1 to the cytoplasmic side of the ventral plasma membrane suggested a possible role of liprin in stabilizing integrin receptors at the cell surface. In support of this hypothesis, we demonstrated an inhibitory effect of liprin overexpression on antibody-induced beta1 integrin internalization. On the other hand, depletion of endogenous liprin-alpha by small interfering RNA increased the rate of integrin internalization. Overall, these results support the hypothesis that liprin-alpha1 exerts its action on focal adhesion turnover by influencing the localization and stability of integrin receptors at the cell surface.
Nestin is an intermediate filament protein expressed in neural and mesenchymal stem cells. Here, we investigated the expression of nestin in vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) in vivo and in vitro. In the developing arteries, medial VSMCs were found to express nestin; its expression was prominent in embryos but was down-regulated after birth (3-6 weeks) in a region-dependent manner; its expression was abolished in the adult. Thus, the expression of nestin is specific to developing VSMCs. In primary VMSC cultures, nestin expression was induced by serum, but was independent of cell-cycle progression. Signaling analyses revealed that the serum-induced nestin expression depended on the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) and protein kinase B (PKB)(Akt) pathways, via the platelet derived growth factor (PDGF) and epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptors. Nestin expression was closely related to the up-regulation and activation of Sp1 and Sp3. Among major serum growth factors and cytokines, PDGF-BB was the most potent inducer of nestin expression. Nestin was also up-regulated in arteries undergoing vascular remodeling following balloon injury. Its expression was particularly strong in the cells lining the lumen of the neointima, suggesting a possible correlation between nestin expression and the progression of vascular remodeling.
We investigated the involvement of mitochondrial-dependent apoptosis in Huntington's disease (HD) vs. control (CTR) cybrids, obtained from the fusion of human platelets with mitochondrial DNA-depleted NT2 cells, and further exposed to 3-nitropropionic acid (3-NP) or staurosporine (STS). Untreated HD cybrids did not exhibit significant modifications in the activity of mitochondrial respiratory chain complexes I-IV or in mtDNA sequence variations suggestive of a primary role in mitochondrial susceptibility in the subpopulation of HD carriers studied. However, a slight decrease in mitochondrial membrane potential and increased formation of intracellular hydroperoxides was observed in HD cybrids under basal conditions. Furthermore, apoptotic nuclei morphology and a moderate increase in caspase-3 activation, as well as increased levels of superoxide ions and hydroperoxides were observed in HD cybrids upon 3-NP or STS treatment. 3-NP-evoked apoptosis in HD cybrids involved cytochrome c and AIF release from mitochondria, which was associated with mitochondrial Bax translocation. CTR cybrids subjected to 3-NP showed increased mitochondrial Bax and Bim levels and the release of AIF, but not cytochrome c, suggesting a different mode of cell death, linked to the loss of membrane integrity. Additionally, increased mitochondrial Bim and Bak levels, and a slight release of cytochrome c in untreated HD cybrids may help to explain their moderate susceptibility to mitochondrial-dependent apoptosis.
The NMDA receptor and the brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) are involved in central sensitization and synaptic plasticity in the spinal cord. To determine whether the spinal cord BDNF contributes to the development and maintenance of neuropathic pain by activation of the dorsal horn NR2B-containing NMDA (NMDA-2B) receptors, this study was designed to investigate if alterations in BDNF and its TrkB receptor in the spinal dorsal horn would parallel the timeline of the development of neuropathic pain in lumbar 5 (L5) spinal nerve ligated (SNL) rats. The enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) showed that the BDNF concentration significantly increased during 24 h post-surgery, and the maximal enhancement lasted for 48 h. It declined as time progressed and returned to the level of pre-operation at 28 days after SNL. In parallel with the alteration of BDNF concentration in the spinal dorsal horn, the 50% paw withdrawal threshold (PWT) of the ipsilateral hind paw in SNL rats also showed a significant decrease during 24-48 h after SNL as compared with those in sham-operated rats. The correlation analysis revealed that the BDNF concentration had a negative correlation with 50% PWT in early stage (0-48 h) (r=-0.974, p=0.001), but not late stage (3-28 days) (r=0.3395, p=0.6605), after SNL. Similarly, the immunohistochemical staining revealed that a significant up-regulation of BDNF expression in the spinal dorsal horn appeared as early as 12 h post-operation in SNL rats, peaked at 24-48 h, declined at 3 days and disappeared at 14 days after SNL. In contrast, an increase in NMDA-2B receptors expression in the spinal dorsal horn was delayed to 48 h after SNL. The increase reached peak at 3 days, lasted for 14 days, and returned to the control level of pre-operation at 28 days after SNL. The maximal enhancement of BDNF expression occurred in early stage (24-48 h) after nerve injury, while the peak of NMDA-2B receptors expression appeared in late stage (3-14 days) post-nerve ligation. As compared with the dynamic changes of 50% PWT in the timeline after nerve injury, the maximal enhancement of BDNF expression closely paralleled the maximal decline in the slope of 50% PWT, while the peak of NMDA-2B receptors expression corresponded with the plateau of the decreased 50% PWT. Therefore, the increased BDNF in the spinal dorsal horn was likely to be associated with the initiation of neuropathic pain in early stage (0-48 h), while the activation of NMDA-2B receptors was involved in the maintenance of persistent pain states in late stage (2-14 days) after nerve injury. Moreover, the present study also demonstrated that the BDNF/TrkB-mediated signaling pathway within the spinal cord might be involved in the induction of neuropathic pain in early stage after nerve injury, and the selective NMDA-2B receptors antagonist (Ro 25-6981) almost completely blocked the BDNF-induced mechanical allodynia in all of the tested rats. These data suggested that the BDNF/TrkB-mediated signaling pathway in the spinal cord was involved in the development of nerve injury-induced neuropathic pain through the activation of dorsal horn NMDA-2B receptors.
Ablation or deep brain stimulation in the internal segment of the globus pallidus (GPi) is an effective therapy for the treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD). Yet many patients receive only partial benefit, including varying levels of improvement across different body regions, which may relate to a differential effect of GPi surgery on the different body regions. Unfortunately, our understanding of the somatotopic organization of human GPi is based on a small number of studies with limited sample sizes, including several based upon only a single recording track or plane. To fully address the three-dimensional somatotopic organization of GPi, we examined the receptive field properties of pallidal neurons in a large cohort of patients undergoing stereotactic surgery. The response of neurons to active and passive movements of the limbs and orofacial structures was determined, using a minimum of three tracks across at least two medial-lateral planes. Neurons (3183) were evaluated from 299 patients, of which 1972 (62%) were modulated by sensorimotor manipulation. Of these, 1767 responded to a single, contralateral body region, with the remaining 205 responding to multiple and/or ipsilateral body regions. Leg-related neurons were found dorsal, medial and anterior to arm-related neurons, while arm-related neurons were dorsal and lateral to orofacial-related neurons. This study provides a more detailed map of individual body regions as well as specific joints within each region and provides a potential explanation for the differential effect of lesions or DBS of the GPi on different body parts in patients undergoing surgical treatment of movement disorders.
For almost 40 years, one of the principal causes of diarrhoeal disease has been thought to be fluid secretion emanating from the epithelial cells of the small and large intestine. Given the extremely large fluid losses seen in cholera, where secretion can be up to several litres per day, this seems a plausible hypothesis. The enterocyte (epithelial cell) secretion hypothesis rapidly displaced all other alternatives, such as vasodilatation coupled with enhanced paracellular permeability. An essential mechanism underlying enterocyte secretion has always been assumed to be electrogenic chloride secretion, leading to a localized osmotic imbalance at the mucosal surface of the enterocytes that causes fluid entry into the lumen by osmosis. The chloride secretion basis for enterotoxin-deranged secretion is assumed to be measurable by changes in electrical currents and by altered transport of chloride ion. These can be detected after the small intestine is exposed to a heat-stable enterotoxin (STa) produced by Escherichia coli. However, in vivo, when the recovered volume technique is used, STa is found not to be secretory. The heat-stable enterotoxin is therefore a test case toxin, because the complex techniques used to demonstrate enterocyte secretion after STa exposure show apparent secretion, while the simplest technique based on fluid recovery and genuinely measuring the mass transport of fluid does not. This review scrutinizes the nature of the evidence put forward for enterocyte secretion and reaches the conclusion that there is no evidence for it. Debilitating secretion undoubtedly does take place in severe diarrhoeal disease, but secretion from enterocytes is unlikely to be the cause.


Acute ischemic stroke is the leading cause of severe disability and the third leading cause of death in the USA. Intravenous tissue plasminogen activator (IV tPA) remains the most widely advocated treatment, but this therapy is limited by a narrow time window (&lt;4.5 h after stroke onset), exclusion of patients with coagulopathy and recanalization rates of less than 50%. As a result, only 5% of acute stroke patients are treated with IV tPA. Endovascular mechanical thrombectomy may be employed, either as a standalone therapy or as an adjunct to IV tPA, and has several potential advantages, including a wider time window (up to 8 h), the capacity for use in coagulopathic patients and higher recanalization rates (up to 82%). Nonetheless, mechanical thrombectomy has engendered controversy because no randomized trials have yet been performed to support its use. In this article, we review the clinical applications of mechanical thrombectomy for the treatment of acute ischemic stroke. Ultimately, the results of ongoing trials are necessary to delineate the patient populations most likely to benefit from this therapy.
Neuroplastin (Np) is a glycoprotein belonging to the immunoglobulin superfamily of cell adhesion molecules (CAMs) and existing in two isoforms, Np55 and Np65, named according to their molecular weights. The extracellular part of Np65 contains three immunoglobulin (Ig)-like modules (Ig1, Ig2, and Ig3), whereas Np55 lacks the Ig1 module. Of these two isoforms, only Np65 is involved in homophilic interactions resulting in cell adhesion, whereas the role of Np55 is poorly understood. The present study reports for the first time the crystal structure of the ectodomain of Np55 at 1.95-A resolution and demonstrates that Np55 binds to and activates the fibroblast growth factor receptor 1 (FGFR1). Furthermore, we identify a sequence motif in the Ig2 module of Np55 interacting with FGFR1 and show that a synthetic peptide encompassing this motif, termed narpin, binds to and activates FGFR1. We show that both Np55 and the narpin peptide induce neurite outgrowth through FGFR1 activation and that Np55 increases synaptic calcium concentration in an FGFR1-dependent manner. Moreover, we demonstrate that narpin has an antidepressive-like effect in rats subjected to the forced swim test, suggesting that Np55-induced signaling may be involved in synaptic plasticity in vivo. Owczarek, S., Kiryushko, D., Larsen, M. H., Kastrup, J. S., Gajhede, M., Sandi, C., Berezin, V., Bock, E., Soroka, V. Neuroplastin-55 binds to and signals through the fibroblast growth factor receptor.
This paper reviews the contemporary trends in the pathobiochemistry of neurodegenerative disorders with respect to their early predictive diagnosis and possible treatment interventions. If we consider the current epidemiological data related to neurodegenerative disorders, medicine is going to face in the near future latent pandemic situations. The introduction puts an emphasis on the emerging importance of one major cluster of neurodegenerative disorders: diseases of the abnormal protein beta-conformation. The cluster includes such significant diseases as Alzheimer, Pick, Huntington, Parkinson disease, as well as the transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (Creuzfeldt-Jakob disease). The pathogenetic mechanisms in the determination of this group of disorders are explored with an emphasis on the impairment of post-synthetic chaperone correction. The central role of a number of such protein products is discussed. In particular the pathobiochemical mechanisms concerning the formation of beta-amyloid, alpha and beta synucleins, scrapie isoform of the prion protein are presented. A new diagnostic principle allowing the early and specific diagnosis of the conformation diseases protein via amplification techniques is presented. These methods compete in sensitivity with the PCR methods and shows promises for effective treatment. In conclusion, beta-pathies are considered a suitable example for the modern concept of cluster and prototype diagnosis in medicine and especially in clinical neurosciences.
Modifications in neuroendocrine function are a hallmark of pubertal development. These changes have many short- and long-term implications for the physiological and neurobehavioral function of an individual. The purpose of the present review is to discuss our current understanding of how pubertal development and stress interact to affect the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, the major neuroendocrine axis that controls the hormonal stress response. A growing body of literature indicates that puberty is marked by dramatic transitions in stress reactivity. Moreover, recent studies indicate that exposure to stressors during pubertal maturation may result in enduring changes in HPA responsiveness in adulthood. As puberty is marked by a substantial increase in many stress-related psychological and physiological disorders (e.g., depression, anxiety, drug abuse), it is essential to understand the factors that regulate and modulate HPA function during this crucial period of development.
There is an increasing awareness that adolescent females differ from males in their response to drugs of abuse and consequently in their vulnerability to addiction. One possible component of this vulnerability to drug addiction is the neurobiological impact that reproductive physiology and behaviors have on the mesolimbic dopamine system, a key neural pathway mediating drug addiction. In this review, we examine animal models that address the impact of ovarian cyclicity, sexual affiliation, sexual behavior, and maternal care on the long-term plasticity of the mesolimbic dopamine system. The thesis is that this plasticity in synaptic neurotransmission stemming from an individual's normal life history contributes to the pathological impact of drugs of abuse on the neurobiology of this system. Hormones released during reproductive cycles have only transient effects on these dopamine systems, whereas reproductive behaviors produce a persistent sensitization of dopamine release and post-synaptic neuronal responsiveness. Puberty itself may not represent a neurobiological risk factor for drug abuse, but attendant behavioral experiences may have a negative impact on females engaging in drug use.
Over the last several decades, the relative contribution of early life events to individual disease susceptibility has been explored extensively. Only fairly recently, however, has it become evident that abnormal or excessive nociceptive activity experienced during the perinatal period may permanently alter the normal development of the CNS and influence future responses to somatosensory input. Given the significant rise in the number of premature infants receiving high-technology intensive care over the last 20 years, ex-preterm neonates may be exceedingly vulnerable to the long-term effects of repeated invasive interventions. The present review summarizes available clinical and laboratory findings on the lasting impact of exposure to noxious stimulation during early development, with a focus on the structural and functional alterations in nociceptive circuits, and its sexually dimorphic impact.
The clinical assessment of spasticity in stroke patients generally includes descriptive scales, such as the Modified Ashworth Scale (MAS) and the Global Pain Scale (GPS), however these may not be sufficiently sensitive to accurately detect improvements, especially at upper limb level; electromyography (EMG) may be the answer to this clinical requirement. The aim of this study was to quantify the effects of botulinum toxin type A (BTX) in treating upper extremity spasticity in stroke patients, using clinical evaluation (MAS and GPS) and EMG. Ten patients were assessed before, 30 days and 180 days after BTX injection using clinical evaluations and EMG. At 30 days all clinical measures improved significantly. Whereas MAS scores, after recording an improvement at the first evaluation session, were worse at the second assessment, GPS scores improved over time, both at the first and at the second evaluation session. A reduction of EMG activity was found 30 days after injections, in particular at baseline and during passive flexion movement. Our results demonstrated that measurement of EMG activity may be an effective means of detecting functional improvements and of monitoring the effects of treatment in post-stroke patients.
Gastric emptying undergoes complex regulation by the nervous system, which organizes in particular the inhibition of duodenum motility after a rise in intra-gastric pressure: the gastro-duodenal inhibitory reflex. It was first shown in mammals that this reflex could be organized by a sympathetic ganglion, the coeliac plexus. The excitation of gastric mechanosensitive fibres leads in this ganglion to the release of a neurotransmitter, which in turn activates ganglionic neurones leading to inhibition of the duodenum contractions. It rapidly became apparent that this reflex presented striking properties since it was organized in the absence of action potentials along the nerve fibres. Then it was shown that the neurotransmitter released in the coeliac plexus was gaseous: nitric oxide (NO). The nature of the mechanism conducting, without action potentials, the excitation along the nerve fibres was recently determined. This mechanism necessitates the integrity of particular areas of the neuronal membrane (the lipid rafts) and the activation in cascade of the following second messenger sequence: ceramide, calcium, NO and guanosine cyclic monophosphate (c-GMP). These results show how studies in biological gastroenterology have led to the rethinking of one of the central dogmas in neuroscience according to which excitation is only conducted along the nerves by the action potential.
Mounting an immune response requires a relatively substantial investment of energy and marked reductions in energy availability can suppress immune function and presumably increase disease susceptibility. We have previously demonstrated that a moderate reduction in energy stores by partial surgical lipectomy impairs humoral immunity of Siberian hamsters (Phodopus sungorus) and is mediated, in part, by changes in the adipose tissue hormone leptin. The goals of the present study were to assess the role of leptin in cell-mediated immunity and to determine if the potential effects of leptin on immunity are via the direct actions of this hormone on lymphocytes, or indirect, via the sympathetic nervous system (SNS). In Experiment 1, hamsters received osmotic minipumps containing either murine leptin (0.5 microl/h) or vehicle alone for 10 days and splenocyte proliferation in response to the T-cell mitogen Concanavalin A (Con A) was determined. In Experiment 2, Con A-induced splenocyte proliferation was tested in the presence or absence of leptin in vitro. In Experiment 3, exogenous leptin was administered to intact or sympathetically denervated hamsters. Hamsters treated with in vivo leptin displayed increased splenocyte proliferation compared with control hamsters receiving vehicle. In contrast, in vitro leptin had no effect on splenocyte proliferation. Sympathetic denervation attenuated, but did not block, leptin-induced increases in immunity. Taken together, these results are consistent with the idea that leptin can enhance cell-mediated immunity; the SNS appears to contribute, least in part, to leptin-induced increases in immunity. Importantly, these findings confirm previous studies that leptin serves as an important endocrine link between energy balance and immunity.
Previous studies suggest that glial cells contribute to synaptogenesis in specific neurons from the postnatal CNS. Here, we studied whether this is true for Purkinje cells (PCs), which represent a unique neuronal cell type due to their large size, massive synaptic input, and high vulnerability. Using new glia-free cultures enriched in PCs from postnatal mice we show that these neurons survived and grew, but displayed only low levels of excitatory and inhibitory synaptic activity. Coculture with glial cells strongly enhanced the frequency and size of spontaneous and miniature excitatory synaptic currents as well as neurite growth and branching. Immunocytochemical staining for microtubule-associated protein 2- (MAP2-) positive neurites revealed impaired dendrite formation in PCs under glia-free conditions, which can explain the absence of synaptic activity. Glial signals strongly enhanced dendritogenesis in PCs and thus their ability to receive excitatory synaptic input from granule cells (GCs). The enhancement of dendrite formation was mimicked by glia-conditioned medium (GCM), whereas the increase in synaptic activity required physical presence of glia. This indicated that dendrite development is necessary but not sufficient for PCs to receive excitatory synaptic input and that synaptogenesis requires additional signals. The level of inhibitory synaptic activity was low even in cocultures due to a low incidence of inhibitory interneurons. Taken together, our results reinforce the idea that glial cells promote synaptogenesis in specific neuronal cell types.
Leukotrienes (LTs) belong to a large family of lipid mediators, termed eicosanoids, which are derived from arachidonic acids and released from the cell membrane by phospholipases. LTs are involved in the pathogenesis of inflammatory diseases, such as asthma, rheumatoid arthritis, and peripheral inflammatory pain. In the present study, we examined whether LTs were implicated in pathomechanism of neuropathic pain following peripheral nerve injury. Using the spared nerve injury (SNI) model in rats, we investigated the expression of LT synthases (5-lipoxygenase; 5-LO, Five lipoxygenase activating protein; FLAP, LTA4 hydrolase; LTA4h and LTC4 synthase; LTC4s) and receptors (BLT1, 2 and CysLT1, 2) mRNAs in the rat spinal cord. Semi-quantitative RT-PCR revealed that 5-LO, FLAP, LTC4s, BLT1, and CysLT1 mRNAs increased following SNI, but not CysLT2 mRNAs. Using double labeling analysis of in situ hybridization with immunohistochemistry, we observed that 5-LO, FLAP, and CysLT1 mRNAs were expressed in spinal microglia. LTA4h and LTC4s mRNAs were expressed in both spinal neurons and microglia. BLT1 mRNA was expressed in spinal neurons. The p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase inhibitor, but not MEK inhibitor, reduced the increase in 5-LO in spinal microglia. Continuous intrathecal administration of the 5-LO inhibitor or BLT1 and CysLT1 receptor antagonists suppressed mechanical allodynia induced by SNI. Our findings suggest that the increase of LT synthesis in spinal microglia produced via p38 MAPK plays a role in the generation of neuropathic pain.

Many natural sounds such as speech contain concurrent amplitude and frequency modulation (AM and FM), with the FM components often in the form of directional frequency sweeps or glides. Most studies of modulation coding, however, have employed one modulation type in stationary carriers, and in cases where mixed-modulation sounds have been used, the FM component has typically been confined to an extremely narrow range within a critical band. The current study examined the ability to detect AM signals carried by broad logarithmic frequency sweeps using a 2-alternative forced-choice adaptive psychophysical design. AM-detection thresholds were measured as a function of signal modulation rate and carrier sweep frequency region. Thresholds for detection of AM in a sweep carrier ranged from -8 dB for an AM rate of 8 Hz to -30 dB at 128 Hz. Compared to thresholds obtained for stationary carriers (pure tones and filtered Gaussian noise), detection of AM carried by frequency sweeps substantially declined at low (12 dB at 8 Hz) but not high modulation rates. Several trends in the data, including sweep- versus stationary-carrier threshold patterns and effects of frequency region were predicted from a modulation filterbank model with an envelope-correlation decision statistic.
Although much is understood about the stimulus properties affecting the latency of saccadic eye movements to visual targets, relatively little is known about the properties affecting saccades to auditory targets. This study examined the effect of three primary acoustic features-frequency, intensity, and spatial location-on auditory saccade characteristics in humans, and compared them to visual saccades. Saccade targets were presented from an azimuthal array of speakers and LEDs spanning +/-36 degrees. There was an 'eccentricity effect' for auditory saccades such that latencies decreased by up to 70 ms with eccentricity. This was observed for all frequencies and intensities tested. There was a smaller effect in the opposite direction effect for visual saccades. Auditory saccades had similar latencies to visual saccades (within 5 ms) for near midline locations, but were up to 90 ms faster at eccentric locations (+/-36 degrees). Overall, saccadic latencies were shortest for wideband noise and narrowband noises with center frequencies falling within the human speech range. Examination of saccade accuracy showed decreasing accuracy with increasing eccentricity, and a negative correlation between accuracy and latency for auditory stimuli.
Binaural computations involving the convergence of excitatory and inhibitory inputs have been proposed to explain directional sharpening and frequency tuning documented in the brainstem of a teleost fish, the oyster toadfish (Opsanus tau). To assess the presence of inhibitory neurons in the ascending auditory circuit, we used a monoclonal antibody to GABA to evaluate immunoreactivity at three levels of the circuit: the first order descending octaval nucleus (DON), the secondary octaval population (dorsal division), and the midbrain torus semicircularis. We observed a subset of immunoreactive (IR) cells and puncta distributed throughout the neuropil at all three locations. To assess whether contralateral inhibition is present, fluorescent dextran crystals were inserted into dorsal DON to fill contralateral, commissural inputs retrogradely prior to GABA immunohistochemistry. GABA-IR somata and puncta co-occurred with retrogradely filled, GABA-negative auditory projection cells. GABA-IR projection cells were more common in the dorsolateral DON than in the dorsomedial DON, but GABA-IR puncta were common in both dorsolateral and dorsomedial divisions. Our findings demonstrate that GABA is present in the ascending auditory circuit in the brainstem of the toadfish, indicating that GABA-mediated inhibition participates in shaping auditory response characteristics in a teleost fish as in other vertebrates.
Canonical transient receptor potential type 3 (TRPC3) ion channels assemble from TRPC3 subunits and exhibit multiple activation mechanisms. TRPC3 has been proposed to contribute to Ca(2+) entry supporting Ca(2+) homeostasis in cochlear hair cells and to be activated by G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) signaling in spiral ganglion neurons. The present study was designed to determine the spatiotemporal profile of TRPC3 expression during mouse cochlear ontogeny. TRPC3 immunofluorescence of cryosectioned cochleae was performed using E16-adult tissue. We found that prior to birth, TRPC3 expression was strongest in epithelial cells that form the cochlear partition. In the early postnatal period, to the onset of hearing (~P12), immunofluorescence was strongest in the hair cells, with increased expression in stria vascularis and Reissner's membrane. Afferent neurite labeling in inner spiral plexus and outer spiral bundles developed transiently in the perinatal period, corresponding to the critical period of synaptic consolidation, while signal in the spiral ganglion soma increased from the perinatal period through to adulthood. Compared with the late embryonic/early postnatal levels, hair cell expression was relatively weaker from the third postnatal week, whereas spiral ganglion soma labeling was stronger. In the adult, TRPC3 expression was primarily in the soma of spiral ganglion neurons, the hair cells, and the inner and outer sulcus regions. This spatiotemporal profile of TRPC3 expression was consistent with this ion channel contributing to development of sensory, neural and epithelial cochlear tissues, as well as hair cell Ca(2+) homeostasis and regulation of auditory neurotransmission via GPCR signaling.
When a severe neurological lesion occurs as a consequence of intracerebral bleeding, no effective treatment for improving the outcome is currently available. In the present study, intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) was induced by stereotactic injection of 0.5 U of collagenase type IV in the striatum of adult Wistar rats, and three days later, intralesional administration of 2 x 10(6) allogeneic bone marrow stromal cells (BMSC) in saline (n:10), or saline only (n:10), was performed. In the following 30 days, functional outcome was evaluated in each animal by rotarod and the modified neurological severity score (mNSS) test. Progressive and functional improvement was observed in BMSC-transplanted rats compared with controls, together with morphological images suggesting that intracerebral administration of BMSC increases endogenous neurogenesis at the level of subventricular zone (SVZ). These findings suggest that local administration of allogeneic BMSC could be useful to reduce the neurological deficits caused by intracerebral hemorrhage.


Selective breeding of rats exhibiting differences in novelty-induced locomotion revealed that this trait predicts several differences in emotional behavior. Bred High Responders (bHRs) show exaggerated novelty-induced locomotion, aggression, and psychostimulant self-administration, compared to bred Low Responders (bLRs), which are inhibited and prone to anxiety- and depression-like behavior. Our breeding studies highlight the heritability of the bHR/bLR phenotypes, although environmental factors like maternal care also shape some aspects of these traits. We previously reported that HR vs. LR mothers act differently, but it was unclear whether their behaviors were genetically driven or influenced by their pups. The present study (a) used cross-fostering to evaluate whether the bHR/bLR maternal styles are inherent to mothers and/or are modulated by pups; and (b) assessed oxytocin and oxytocin receptor mRNA expression to examine possible underpinnings of bHR/bLR maternal differences. While bHR dams exhibited less maternal behavior than bLRs during the dark/active phase, they were very attentive to pups during the light phase, spending greater time passive nursing and in contact with pups compared to bLRs. Cross-fostering only subtly changed bHR and bLR dams' behavior, suggesting that their distinct maternal styles are largely inherent to the mothers. We also found elevated oxytocin mRNA levels in the supraoptic nucleus of the hypothalamus in bHR versus bLR dams, which may play some role in driving their behavior differences. Overall these studies shed light on the interplay between the genetics of mothers and infants in driving differences in maternal style.
Pheromones have been shown to induce sexually dimorphic responses in LH secretion. Here we asked whether the sexually dimorphic population of kisspeptin neurons in the rostral periventricular area of the third ventricle (RP3V) could relay sexually dimorphic information from the olfactory systems to the GnRH system. Furthermore, we analyzed the effects of aromatase mutation (ArKO) and thus the role of estradiol on RP3V kisspeptin neuronal numbers and on the response of these kisspeptin neurons to same- versus opposite-sex urinary pheromones. Exposure to male but not female urinary odors induced Fos protein in kisspeptin neurons in the RP3V of female wildtype (WT) mice, suggesting that these kisspeptin neurons may be part of the neural circuitry that relays information from the olfactory brain to the GnRH system in a sexually dimorphic manner. Male pheromones induced Fos in kisspeptin neurons in ArKO females, albeit significantly less compared to WT females. The sexual differentiation of kisspeptin neuronal number was lost in ArKO mice, i.e. the number of kisspeptin-immunoreactive neurons in the RP3V of ArKO females was as low as in male mice, whereas male ArKO mice had somewhat increased numbers of kisspeptin neurons. These results suggest that the sex difference in kisspeptin neuronal number in WT mice reflects an organizational action of estradiol in females. By contrast, the ability of male urinary pheromones to activate kisspeptin neurons in WT females may not depend on the organizational action of estradiol since ArKO females still showed some Fos/kisspeptin co-activation.
Neuronal network oscillations are a unifying phenomenon in neuroscience research, with comparable measurements across scales and species. Cortical oscillations are of central importance in the characterization of neuronal network function in health and disease and are influential in effective drug development. Whilst animal in vitro and in vivo electrophysiology is able to characterize pharmacologically induced modulations in neuronal activity, present human counterparts have spatial and temporal limitations. Consequently, the potential applications for a human equivalent are extensive. Here, we demonstrate a novel implementation of contemporary neuroimaging methods called pharmaco-magnetoencephalography. This approach determines the spatial profile of neuronal network oscillatory power change across the cortex following drug administration and reconstructs the time course of these modulations at focal regions of interest. As a proof of concept, we characterize the nonspecific GABAergic modulator diazepam, which has a broad range of therapeutic applications. We demonstrate that diazepam variously modulates theta (4-7 Hz), alpha (7-14 Hz), beta (15-25 Hz), and gamma (30-80 Hz) frequency oscillations in specific regions of the cortex, with a pharmacodynamic profile consistent with that of drug uptake. We examine the relevance of these results with regard to the spatial and temporal observations from other modalities and the various therapeutic consequences of diazepam and discuss the potential applications of such an approach in terms of drug development and translational neuroscience.
Spaced presentations of to-be-learned items during encoding leads to superior long-term retention over massed presentations. Despite over a century of research, the psychological and neural basis of this spacing effect however is still under investigation. To test the hypotheses that the spacing effect results either from reduction in encoding-related verbal maintenance rehearsal in massed relative to spaced presentations (deficient processing hypothesis) or from greater encoding-related elaborative rehearsal of relational information in spaced relative to massed presentations (encoding variability hypothesis), we designed a vocabulary learning experiment in which subjects encoded paired-associates, each composed of a known word paired with a novel word, in both spaced and massed conditions during functional magnetic resonance imaging. As expected, recall performance in delayed cued-recall tests was significantly better for spaced over massed conditions. Analysis of brain activity during encoding revealed that the left frontal operculum, known to be involved in encoding via verbal maintenance rehearsal, was associated with greater performance-related increased activity in the spaced relative to massed condition. Consistent with the deficient processing hypothesis, a significant decrease in activity with subsequent episodes of presentation was found in the frontal operculum for the massed but not the spaced condition. Our results suggest that the spacing effect is mediated by activity in the frontal operculum, presumably by encoding-related increased verbal maintenance rehearsal, which facilitates binding of phonological and word level verbal information for transfer into long-term memory.
Regions of the primary motor network are known to show a high level of spontaneous functional connectivity during rest. Resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies have reported the left and right motor cortex to form a single resting-state network, without examining the specific organization of the functional connections between subregions of the primary motor network. The primary motor cortex has a somatotopic organization, clearly separating regions that control our feet from regions that control our fingers and other body parts. In this study, 3 T resting-state fMRI time-series of 46 healthy subjects were acquired; and for all subregions along the precentral gyrus, the location of the maximum level of functional connectivity within the contralateral primary motor cortex was computed, together with whole brain functional connectivity maps, to examine a possible somatotopic organization of the functional connections of the motor network. Subregions of the primary motor cortex were found to be most strongly functionally linked to regions in the contralateral hemisphere with a similar spatial location along the contralateral primary motor cortex as the selected seed regions. On the basis of the knowledge of a somatopic organization of the primary motor network, these findings suggest that functional subregions of the motor network are one-on-one linked to their functional homolog in the contralateral hemisphere and organized in a somatotopic fashion. Examining the specific organization of the functional connections within the primary motor network could enhance our overall understanding of the organization of resting-state functional communication within the brain.
Our study investigates the dependence of response monitoring and error detection on genetic influences modulating the serotonergic system. This was done using the event-related potentials (ERPs) after error (Ne/ERN) and correct trials (Nc/CRN). To induce a sufficient amount of errors, a standard flanker task was used. The subjects (N = 94) were genotyped for the functional 5-HT1A C(-1019)G polymorphism. The results show that the 5-HT1A C(-1019)G polymorphism specifically modulates error detection. Neurophysiological modulations on error detection were paralleled by a similar modulation of response slowing after an error, reflecting the behavioral adaptation. The 5-HT1A -1019 CC genotype group showed a larger Ne and stronger posterror slowing than the CG and GG genotype groups. More general processes of performance monitoring, as reflected in the Nc/CRN, were not affected. The finding that error-specific processes, but not general response monitoring processes, are modulated by the 5-HT1A C(-1019)G polymorphism is underlined by a wavelet analysis. In summary, the results suggest a specific effect of the 5-HT1A C(-1019)G polymorphism on error monitoring, as reflected in the Ne, and suggest a neurobiological dissociation between processes of error monitoring and general response monitoring at the level of the serotonin 1A receptor system.
This study aimed at elucidating whether (a) brain areas associated with motor function show a change in functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) signal in amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI) and Alzheimer's disease (AD), (b) such change is linear over the course of the disease, and (c) fMRI changes in aMCI and AD are driven by hippocampal atrophy, or, conversely, reflect a nonspecific neuronal network rewiring generically associated to brain tissue damage. FMRI during the performance of a simple motor task with the dominant right-hand, and structural MRI (i.e., dual-echo, 3D T1-weighted, and diffusion tensor [DT] MRI sequences) were acquired from 10 AD patients, 15 aMCI patients, and 11 healthy controls. During the simple-motor task, aMCI patients had decreased recruitment of the left (L) inferior frontal gyrus compared to controls, while they showed increased recruitment of L postcentral gyrus and head of L caudate nucleus, and decreased activation of the cingulum compared with AD patients. Effective connectivity was altered between primary sensorimotor cortices (SMC) in aMCI patients vs. controls, and between L SMC, head of L caudate nucleus, and cingulum in AD vs. aMCI patients. Altered fMRI activations and connections were correlated with the hippocampal atrophy in aMCI and with the overall GM microstructural damage in AD. Motor-associated functional cortical changes in aMCI and AD mirror fMRI changes of the cognitive network, suggesting the occurrence of a widespread brain rewiring with increasing structural damage rather than a specific response of cognitive network.
Approximately one billion people worldwide are homozygous for a stop codon polymorphism in the ACTN3 gene (R577X) which results in complete deficiency of the fast fibre muscle protein alpha-actinin-3. ACTN3 genotype is associated with human athletic performance and alpha-actinin-3 deficient mice [Actn3 knockout (KO) mice] have a shift in the properties of fast muscle fibres towards slower fibre properties, with increased activity of multiple enzymes in the aerobic metabolic pathway and slower contractile properties. alpha-Actinins have been shown to interact with a number of muscle proteins including the key metabolic regulator glycogen phosphorylase (GPh). In this study, we demonstrated a link between alpha-actinin-3 and glycogen metabolism which may underlie the metabolic changes seen in the KO mouse. Actn3 KO mice have higher muscle glycogen content and a 50% reduction in the activity of GPh. The reduction in enzyme activity is accompanied by altered post-translational modification of GPh, suggesting that alpha-actinin-3 regulates GPh activity by altering its level of phosphorylation. We propose that the changes in glycogen metabolism underlie the downstream metabolic consequences of alpha-actinin-3 deficiency. Finally, as GPh has been shown to regulate calcium handling, we examined calcium handling in KO mouse primary mouse myoblasts and find changes that may explain the slower contractile properties previously observed in these mice. We propose that the alteration in GPh activity in the absence of alpha-actinin-3 is a fundamental mechanistic link in the association between ACTN3 genotype and human performance.
Sequence analysis of the X-linked iduronate-2-sulfatase (IDS) gene in two Hunter syndrome patients revealed a lack of concordance between IDS genomic DNA and cDNA. These individuals were found to be hemizygous respectively for a nonsense mutation [c.22C&gt;T;p.R8X] and a frameshift micro-insertion [c.10insT;p.P4Sfs] in their genomic DNA. However, both wild-type and mutant IDS sequences were evident upon cDNA analysis. Similar discrepant results were also obtained in a third unrelated patient carrying the same p.R8X mutation. Since both p.R8X mutations were inherited from carrier mothers, somatic mosaicism could be excluded. Although the presence of wild-type IDSmRNA-transcripts was confirmed in all three patients by restriction enzyme digestion, clone sequencing, pyrosequencing and single nucleotide primer extension (SNuPE), no wild-type IDS genomic sequence was detectable. The relative abundance of wild-type and mutation-bearing IDS-transcripts in different tissues was quantified by SNuPE. Although IDS transcript levels, as measured by real-time PCR, were reduced (51-71% normal) in these patients, some wild-type IDS protein was detectable by western blotting. Various possible explanations for these unprecedented findings (e.g. accidental contamination, artefactual in vitro nucleotide misincorporation, malsegregation of an extra maternal X-chromosome) were explored and experimentally excluded. PCR-based discriminant assay and segregation analysis of a linked IDS polymorphism (rs1141608) also served to exclude the presence of IDS cDNA derived from the maternal wild-type chromosome. Although it remains to be formally demonstrated by direct experimentation, the intriguing possibility arises that we have observed the in vivo correction of heritable gene lesions at the RNA level operating via a correction mechanism akin to RNA-editing. (c) 2010 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

Prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) EP1 receptors (EP1Rs) may contribute to hypertension and related end-organ damage. Because of the key role of angiotensin II (Ang II) in hypertension, we investigated the role of EP1R in the cerebrovascular alterations induced by Ang II. Mice were equipped with a cranial window, and cerebral blood flow was monitored by laser-Doppler flowmetry. The attenuation in cerebral blood flow responses to whisker stimulation (-46+/-4%) and the endothelium-dependent vasodilator acetylcholine (-40+/-4%) induced by acute administration of Ang II (250 ng/kg per minute; IV for 30 to 40 minutes) were not observed after cyclooxygenase 1 or EP1R inhibition or in cyclooxygenase 1 or EP1-null mice. In contrast, cyclooxygenase 2 inhibition or genetic inactivation did not prevent the attenuation. Ang II-induced oxidative stress was not observed after cyclooxygenase 1 or EP1R inhibition or in EP1R-null mice. Prostaglandin E(2) reinstated the Ang II-induced cerebrovascular dysfunction and oxidative stress after cyclooxygenase 1 inhibition. Brain prostaglandin E(2) levels were not increased by Ang II but were attenuated by cyclooxygenase 1 and not cyclooxygenase 2 inhibition. The cerebrovascular dysfunction induced by 14-day administration of &quot;slow-pressor&quot; doses of Ang II (600 ng/kg per minute) was attenuated by neocortical application of SC51089. Cyclooxygenase 1 immunoreactivity was observed in microglia and EP1R in endothelial cells. We conclude that the cerebrovascular dysfunction induced by Ang II requires activation of EP1R by constitutive production of prostaglandin E(2) derived from cyclooxygenase 1. The findings provide the first evidence that EP1Rs are involved in the deleterious cerebrovascular effects of Ang II and suggest new therapeutic approaches to counteract them.
The joint 30th Annual Meeting of the Australian Neuroscience Society and the 50th Anniversary Meeting of the Australian Physiological Society, held in Sydney, included topics covering new developments in the fields of neuroscience and physiology. This conference report highlights selected presentations on potential treatments for neuropathic pain, mood disorders and Alzheimer's disease. Investigational drugs discussed include 4-ACPBPA (Circadian Technologies Ltd/University of Sydney) and F-15599 (Pierre Fabre SA).
Closed-loop neural interface technology that combines neural ensemble decoding with simultaneous electrical microstimulation feedback is hypothesized to improve deep brain stimulation techniques, neuromotor prosthetic applications, and epilepsy treatment. Here we describe our iterative results in a rat model of a sensory and motor neurophysiological feedback control system. Three rats were chronically implanted with microelectrode arrays in both the motor and visual cortices. The rats were subsequently trained over a period of weeks to modulate their motor cortex ensemble unit activity upon delivery of intra-cortical microstimulation (ICMS) of the visual cortex in order to receive a food reward. Rats were given continuous feedback via visual cortex ICMS during the response periods that was representative of the motor cortex ensemble dynamics. Analysis revealed that the feedback provided the animals with indicators of the behavioral trials. At the hardware level, this preparation provides a tractable test model for improving the technology of closed-loop neural devices.





Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection causes stroke through several mechanisms. Stroke results from opportunistic infection and neoplasia, HIV induced cardiac disease, HIV associated cerebral vasculopathy, and perhaps of HIV induced facilitation of some forms of systemic vasculitis and prothrombotic haematological conditions. HIV causes more ischaemic stroke than cerebral haemorrhage. Although stroke is currently a relatively infrequent manifestation of HIV infection, the incidence of stroke in HIV infected individuals is likely to increase with current combination antiretroviral therapy. HIV infection per se induces endothelial activation and dyslipidaemia, predisposing to accelerated atherosclerosis. Antiretroviral therapy, which increases life expectancy and therefore inherently increases ischaemic stroke risk with advancing age and length of exposure to traditional risk factors, also causes pro-atherosclerotic metabolic and endothelial dysfunction. Antiretroviral induced vascular dysfunction together with pre-existing HIV induced vascular disease has the potential to increase atherosclerotic causes of ischaemic stroke. New antiretroviral agents should ideally eradicate the human immunodeficiency virus thereby reducing vascular risk and HIV related causes of stroke without inducing metabolic or endothelial dysfunction. Future studies of vascular disease in HIV infected individuals, particularly studies investigating the impact of current and future antiretroviral agents, should ideally assess stroke as a specific outcome, and provide data by pathological stroke type and ischaemic stroke subtype, to clarify the mechanisms of stroke and guide the approach to treatment and prevention of stroke.

The development and normal function of the cerebrum is largely dependent on sub-cortical structures, such as the cerebellum and basal ganglia. Dysfunction in these areas can affect both the nonspecific arousal system and information transfer in the brain. Dysfunction of this sort often results in motor and sensory symptoms commonly seen in children with ADD/ADHD. These brain regions have been reported to be underactive, with that underactivity restricted to the right or left side of the sub-cortical and cortical regions. An imbalance of activity or arousal of one side of the cortex can result in a functional disconnection similar to that seen in split-brain patients. Since ADD/ADHD children exhibit deficient performance on tests thought to measure perceptual laterality, evidence of weak laterality or failure to develop laterality has been found across various modalities (auditory, visual, tactile) resulting in abnormal cerebral organization and associated dysfunctional specialization needed for lateralized processing of language and non-language function. This study examines groups of ADD/ADHD elementary school children from first through sixth grade. All participants were administered all the subtests of the Wechsler Individual Achievement Tests, the Brown Parent Questionnaire, and given objective performance measures on tests of motor and sensory coordinative abilities (interactive metronome). Results measured after a 12-week remediation program aimed at increasing the activity of the hypothesized underactive right hemisphere function, yielded significant improvement of greater than two years in grade level in all domains except in mathematical reasoning. Results are discussed in the context of the concept of functional disconnectivity in ADD/ADHD children.
The aim of the study was to estimate the prevalence of the exposure to ototraumatic factors and auditory symptoms, and to analyse the relations between these factors in a group of young healthy men. A total of 839 men, 19-22 years old, were recruited for the study when reporting for primary military service. A questionnaire was distributed and audiometry was performed. The prevalence of tinnitus, sensitivity to noise, and measured hearing impairment in the study group was 23.2%, 15.5%, and 14.5% respectively. Exposure to occupational noise often was reported by 21.4%, and playing loud music often by 16.5%. The young men who had experienced tinnitus after noise exposure had an elevated risk of high frequency hearing impairment, tinnitus, and sensitivity to noise. Those who played loud music had elevated prevalence values of tinnitus but not of hearing impairment. In this young group we observed high prevalence values of ototraumatic factors and auditory symptoms. We also observed significant correlations between tinnitus after noise exposure, self-assessed hearing symptoms, and hearing impairment.

Status epilepticus occurring in early postnatal development protects CA1 hippocampal neurons, the region most sensitive to seizure-induced injury in the developing brain. Here, we developed a &quot;two hit&quot; model in dissociated cultures of the rat hippocampus to test whether pre-exposure of immature neurons to high concentrations of glutamate, N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) or alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-propionic acid (AMPA) during a relatively resistant period prevents neurons from dying following a second exposure to the same chemicals after neurons mature and become highly vulnerable to excitatory amino acids (EAAs). Cultures were exposed to varied doses of glutamate, NMDA, or AMPA for 48 h at 5 DIV and again at 14 DIV for 5, 15, or 30 min. NeuN immunohistochemistry showed early exposure to glutamate (500 microM) killed approximately half of the neurons (52+/-8.6%) compared to the marked depletion that occurs after one exposure at 14 DIV (98+/-0.79%). When cultures were first challenged with moderate doses of glutamate (200 microM) followed by the high dose 7 days later, a significant population of neurons was spared (35.3+/-1.2%). Similarly, pre-exposure to maximal doses of NMDA (100 microM) increased the proportion of surviving cells following the second challenge. In contrast, AMPA (100 microM) was equally toxic after early or late applications and did not protect from the second exposure. GluR1 subunit expression was markedly decreased at 48 h after one or two exposures to 200 microM glutamate (by 44.57+/-3.6%, 45.07+/-3.69%) whereas GluR2 subunit expression was reduced by a lesser amount (25.7 57+/-3.8%). Confocal microscopy showed that one or two exposures to NMDA caused GluR2 protein to downregulate even further whereas parvalbumin (PV) was dramatically increased in the same neurons by over four-fold. On the other hand, calbindin (CB) immunoreactivity was nearly absent after the first exposure to 500 microM glutamate. These data indicate that early, transient exposure to certain EAAs at high doses can induce long-lasting neuroprotection. Alterations in the GluR1/GluR2 ratio as well as differential expression of specific calcium binding proteins may contribute to this neuroprotection.
Prenatal perturbation of brain circulation and oxygenation is a leading cause of perinatal brain damage affecting about 0.3-0.9% of births. Hypoxia-ischemia (HI) in preterm human infants at gestational week 23-32 results in neurodevelopmental abnormalities in childhood, presenting as learning disability, seizure activity, motor impairment and in the most severe cases, death. Here, we examined the potential of MgSO4 treatment, prior to foetal hypoxia, to attenuate hypoxia induced damage in a murine model of maternal hypoxia. We studied the time course of maternal hypoxia and MgSO4 pre-treatment effects on cerebellar tissue by means of DNA microarray analyses. Mild hypoxia induced minor expression changes in most genes. However, there were 5 gene sets which were down-regulated by maternal hypoxia. MgSO4 pre-treatment abrogated these decreases in gene. A cell cycle gene set which responded immediately (2 h) to hypoxia, showed a delayed response (24 h) when MgSO4 pre-treatment was given. Similar proportions of cell death were observed in all groups before P7, where combined hypoxia and MgSO4 treatment increased cell death in the internal granule layer. There were a higher number of BrdU positive cells at the end of hypoxic episodes and a down-regulation of Reelin signaling, compared to control. MgSO4 pre-treatment prevented the enhancement of cell proliferation due to hypoxia and increased Reelin levels. Altogether, MgSO4 pre-treatment both reduced the number of genes differentially affected by hypoxia and delayed the responses to hypoxia. In addition, MgSO4 pre-treatment modified the nature of the transcriptional response; while hypoxia induced down-regulation of gene sets, MgSO4 pre-treatment mostly up-regulated them. The dual reaction to the MgSO4 treatment may be the source of the ambiguity in observations reported for affected newborns.
Suicide is an escalating public health problem, and alcohol use has consistently been implicated in the precipitation of suicidal behavior. Alcohol abuse may lead to suicidality through disinhibition, impulsiveness and impaired judgment, but it may also be used as a means to ease the distress associated with committing an act of suicide. We reviewed evidence of the relationship between alcohol use and suicide through a search of MedLine and PsychInfo electronic databases. Multiple genetically-related intermediate phenotypes might influence the relationship between alcohol and suicide. Psychiatric disorders, including psychosis, mood disorders and anxiety disorders, as well as susceptibility to stress, might increase the risk of suicidal behavior, but may also have reciprocal influences with alcohol drinking patterns. Increased suicide risk may be heralded by social withdrawal, breakdown of social bonds, and social marginalization, which are common outcomes of untreated alcohol abuse and dependence. People with alcohol dependence or depression should be screened for other psychiatric symptoms and for suicidality. Programs for suicide prevention must take into account drinking habits and should reinforce healthy behavioral patterns.
Social conflicts may engender stress-related behavioural and physiological disturbances in the victims of aggression. In addition, stress-like neurochemical changes and ensuing depressive and anxiety symptoms might also be evident in the perpetrators of aggressive acts. The present investigation assessed basal levels of circulating corticosterone and of brain serotonin (5-HT) and norepinephrine (NE) in pre-identified submissive and dominant mice. In addition, brain neurochemical changes were determined following a single or three 15-min aggressive episodes both in submissive mice and in those that dominated the aggressive interplay. Three minutes after single and repeated confrontations, plasma corticosterone levels and 5-HT utilization within the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and hippocampus were increased to a comparable extent in submissive and dominant animals. Interestingly, however, NE utilization within the PFC and hippocampus was augmented to a greater level in submissive mice. These results suggest that 5-HT neuronal functioning was generally responsive to aggressive events, irrespective of social rank, whereas NE neuronal activity within the PFC and hippocampus was more sensitive to the submissive/dominance attributes of the social situation. It is possible that NE and 5-HT variations associated with an aggressive experience contribute to depressive- and anxiety-like manifestations typically observed after such psychosocial stressors, particularly in submissive mice. However, given that 5-HT changes occur irrespective of social rank, these data suggest that a toll is taken on both submissive and dominant mice, leaving them vulnerable to stress-related pathology.
Exercise has been shown to increase hippocampal neurogenesis, but the effects of exercise on oligodendrocyte generation have not yet been reported. In this study, we evaluated the hypothesis that voluntary exercise may affect neurogenesis, and more in particular, oligodendrogenesis in the thoracic segment of the intact spinal cord of adult nestin-GFP transgenic mice. Voluntary exercise for 7 and 14 days increased nestin-GFP expression around the ependymal area. In addition, voluntary exercise for 7 days significantly increased nestin-GFP expression in both the white and gray matter of the thoracic segment of the intact spinal cord, whereas, 14-day exercise decreased nestin-GFP expression. Markers for immature oligodendrocytes (transferrin and CNPase) were significantly increased after 7 days of voluntary exercise. These results suggest that voluntary exercise positively influences oligodendrogenesis in the intact spinal cord, emphasizing the beneficial effects of voluntary exercise as a possible co-treatment for spinal cord injury.

The Guilty Actions Test (GAT) is a scientifically validated technique of forensic psychophysiology that allows for the detection of concealed memories. However, it is still debated whether it is better suited for differentiating guilty from informed innocent examinees than the Guilty Knowledge Test (GKT). Participants of the current study either committed a mock crime or they acquired crime related knowledge by indirectly witnessing it on video. A subsequent polygraph test was carried out using the passive GKT or the active GAT question wording. Neither electrodermal, nor respiratory or heart rate responses were found to differ as a function of truth status or questioning technique. Results indicate that either questioning technique yields high validity coefficients in detecting crime related knowledge. Neither the GKT nor the GAT seems to allow for a valid differentiation of guilty participants and informed innocents when crime related knowledge is deeply encoded and participants are motivated to pass the test.
Purpose. To investigate the effect of the endothelin(A) receptor inhibitor BQ-123 on the retinal arteriolar vasculature in minipig retinas in normal eyes and eyes with acute branch retinal vein occlusion (BRVO). Methods. Seven healthy eyes of seven minipigs and six eyes of six minipigs with experimental BRVO were evaluated under systemic anesthesia. An intravitreal juxta-arteriolar microinjection of 30 microL BQ-123 0.61 microg/mL (pH 7.4) was performed in all but one eye from each group, into which the physiologic saline vehicle alone was injected. Vessel-diameter changes were measured with a retinal vessel analyzer. Results. In healthy minipig retinas (n = 6), arteriolar diameter (+/-SD) increased 6.19% +/- 3.55% (P &lt; 0.05), 25.98% +/- 2.37% (P &lt; 0.001), 23.65% +/- 1.2% (P &lt; 0.001), and 16.84% +/- 1.95% (P &lt; 0.001), at 1, 5, 10, and 15 minutes, respectively, after BQ-123 microinjection. Two hours after experimental BRVO (n = 5), the retinal arteriolar diameter had decreased (13.07% +/- 5.7%; P &lt; 0.01). One, 5, 10, and 15 minutes after BQ-123 microinjection, retinal arteriolar diameter had increased by 7.14% +/- 3.3% (P &lt; 0.01), 26.74% +/- 7.63% (P &lt; 0.001), 23.67% +/- 6.4% (P &lt; 0.001), and 16.09% +/- 3.41% (P &lt; 0.001), respectively. Vehicle only injection had no vasoactive effect on physiologic or BRVO retinas. Conclusions. A significant increase in retinal arteriolar diameter was demonstrated after juxta-arteriolar BQ-123 microinjection in healthy and in acute BRVO minipig retinas. The results suggest a role for endothelin-1 in maintaining retinal basal arteriolar tone. Reversing the BRVO-related vasoconstriction by juxta-arteriolar BQ-123 microinjection could bring a new perspective to the management of BRVO.

A simple and reproducible HPLC method with spectrophotometric detection was developed for determination of rivastigmine in human plasma. Liquid-liquid extraction of rivastigmine and donepezil (as internal standard) from plasma samples was performed with 1-butanol/n-hexane (2:98 v/v) in alkaline condition followed by back-extraction into diluted acetic acid. Chromatography was carried out using a Silica column (250 mm  4.6 mm, 5 m) under isocratic elution with acetonitrile-50 mM aqueous sodium dihydrogen phosphate (17: 83 v/v, pH 3.1. Analyses were run at a flow-rate of 1.3 mL/min at of 50C. The recovery was 90.8% and 95.7% for rivastigmine and the internal standard donepezil, respectively. The precision of the method was 2.6% to 9.1% over the concentration range of 0.5-16 ng/mL for rivastigmine in plasma with a linearity greater than 0.999. The method was specific and sensitive, with a quantification limit of 0.5 ng/mL and a detection limit of 0.2 ng/mL in plasma. The method was used for a bioequivalence study in healthy subjects.







The utilization of administrative data in substance abuse research has become more widespread than ever. This selective review synthesizes recent extant research from 31 articles to consider what has been learned from using administrative data to conduct longitudinal substance abuse research in four overlapping areas: (1) service access and utilization, (2) underrepresented populations, (3) treatment outcomes, and (4) cost analysis. Despite several notable limitations, administrative data contribute valuable information, particularly in the investigation of service system interactions and outcomes among substance abusers as they unfold and influence each other over the long term. This critical assessment of the advantages and disadvantages of using existing administrative data within a longitudinal framework should stimulate innovative thinking regarding future applications of administrative data for longitudinal substance abuse research purposes.
African sleeping sickness is characterized by alterations in rhythmic functions. It is not known if the disease affects the expression of clock genes, which are the molecular basis for rhythm generation. We used a chronic rat model of experimental sleeping sickness, caused by the extracellular parasite Trypanosoma brucei brucei (Tb brucei), to study the effects on clock gene expression. In tissue explants of pituitary glands from Period1-luciferase (Per1-luc) transgenic rats infected with Tb brucei, the period of Per1-luc expression was significantly shorter. In explants containing the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN), the Per1-luc rhythms were flat in 21% of the tissues. We also examined the relative expression of Per1, Clock, and Bmal1 mRNA in the SCN, pineal gland, and spleen from control and infected rats using qPCR. Both Clock and Bmal1 mRNA expression was reduced in the pineal gland and spleen following Tb brucei infection. Infected rats were periodic both in core body temperature and in locomotor activity; however, early after infection, we observed a significant decline in the amplitude of the locomotor activity rhythm. In addition, both activity and body temperature rhythms exhibited decreased regularity and &quot;robustness.&quot; In conclusion, although experimental trypanosome infection has previously been shown to cause functional disturbances in SCN neurons, only 21% of the SCN explants had disturbed Per1-luc rhythms. However, our data show that the infection overall alters molecular clock function in peripheral clocks including the pituitary gland, pineal gland, and spleen.
In seasonal breeders, reproduction is synchronized to seasons by day length via the pineal hormone melatonin. Recently, we have demonstrated that Kiss1, a key activator of the reproductive function, is down-regulated in sexually inactive hamsters maintained in inhibitory short days (SDs). In rodents, Kiss1 is expressed in the anteroventral periventricular nucleus (AVPV) and in the arcuate nucleus (ARC). Because both the duration of the nocturnal peak of melatonin and circulating sex steroid levels vary with photoperiod, the aim of this study was to determine whether melatonin and sex steroids differentially regulate Kiss1 expression in the ARC and the AVPV. Kiss1 expression was examined by in situ hybridization in both male and female hamsters kept in various experimental conditions, and we observed that 1) SD exposure markedly reduced Kiss1 expression in the ARC and AVPV of male and female hamsters as compared to LD animals, 2) sex steroid treatment in SD-adapted male and female hamsters increased the number of Kiss1 neurons in the AVPV but decreased it in the ARC, 3) melatonin administration to LD-adapted hamsters decreased Kiss1 mRNA level in both the AVPV and the ARC in intact animals, whereas in castrated hamsters, melatonin rapidly inhibited Kiss1 expression in the ARC but not in the AVPV, and 4) pinealectomy of male or female SD-adapted hamsters increased the number of Kiss1 neurons in the ARC but not in the AVPV. In conclusion, our data demonstrate that Kiss1 expression in the Syrian hamster hypothalamus is down-regulated in SD via different mechanisms. In the ARC, melatonin inhibits Kiss1 via a direct effect on the hypothalamus, and this effect is probably sex steroid dependent, whereas in the AVPV, the decrease in Kiss1 expression appears to be secondary to the melatonin-driven reduction of sex steroid levels. Taken together, our data support the hypothesis that ARC Kiss1 neurons mediate melatonin effects on the gonadotropic axis of the Syrian hamster.
Neurotransmitter serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) an ancient neurotransmitter, involved in several neurophysiological and behavioral functions, acts by interacting with multiple receptors (5-HT(1)-5-HT(7)). Alterations in serotonergic signalling have also been implicated in various psychiatric disorders. The availability of the genome data of non-human primates permits comparative analysis of human 5-HT receptors with sequences of non-human primates to understand evolutionary divergence. We compared and analyzed serotonergic receptor sequences from human and non-human primates. Phylogenetic analysis by Maximum Likelihood (ML) method classified human and primate 5-HT receptors into six unique clusters. There was considerable conservation of 5-HT receptor sequences between human and non-human primates; however, a greater diversity at the sub-group level was observed. Compared to the other subgroups, larger multiplicity and expansion was seen within the 5-HT(4) receptor subtype in both human and non-human primates. Analysis of non-synonymous and synonymous substitution ratios (Ka/Ks ratio) using the Nei-Gojobori method suggests that 5-HT receptor sequences have undergone negative (purifying) selection over the course of evolution in human, chimpanzee and rhesus monkey. Abnormal human and non-human primate psychopathalogy and behavior, in the context of these variations is discussed. Analysis of these 5-HT receptors in other species will help understand the molecular evolution of 5-HT receptors, and its possible influence on complex behaviors, and psychiatric disorders.
Capsaicin is an active component of red pepper having an antiproliferative effect in a variety of cancer cells, which recent evidence suggests due to its ability to induce apoptosis. However, the molecular mechanisms through which capsaicin induces apoptosis are not well understood. Here we demonstrate that capsaicin-induced apoptosis is mediated via the inhibition cellular proteasome function. Treatment of capsaicin to mouse neuro 2a cells results in the inhibition of proteasome activity in a dose- and time-dependent manner that seems to correlate with its effect on cell death. The effect of capsaicin on cellular proteasome function is indirect and probably mediated via the generation of oxidative stress. Exposure of capsaicin also causes increased accumulation of ubiquitinated proteins as wells as various target substrates of proteasome like p53 and Bax and p27. Like many other classical proteasome inhibitors, capsaicin also triggers the intrinsic pathway of apoptosis involving mitochondria and induces neurite outgrowth. Our results strongly support for the use of capsaicin as an anticancer drug.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the major cause of dementia in the elderly, leading to memory loss and cognitive decline. The mechanism underlying onset of the disease has not been fully elucidated. However, characteristic pathological manifestations include extracellular accumulation and aggregation of the amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta) into plaques and intracellular accumulation and aggregation of hyperphosphorylated tau, forming neurofibrillary tangles. Despite extensive research worldwide, no disease modifying treatment is yet available. In this review, we focus on gene therapy as a potential treatment for AD, and summarize recent work in the field, ranging from proof-of-concept studies in animal models to clinical trials. The multifactorial causes of AD offer a variety of possible targets for gene therapy, including two neurotrophic growth factors, nerve growth factor and brain-derived neurotrophic factor, Abeta-degrading enzymes, such as neprilysin, endothelin-converting enzyme and cathepsin B, and AD associated apolipoprotein E. This review also discusses advantages and drawbacks of various rapidly developing virus-mediated gene delivery techniques for gene therapy. Finally, approaches aiming at down-regulating amyloid precursor protein (APP) and beta-site APP cleaving enzyme 1 levels by means of siRNA-mediated knockdown are briefly summarized. Overall, the prospects appear hopeful that gene therapy has the potential to be a disease modifying treatment for AD.
Granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) is a candidate neuroprotective factor following cerebral ischemia. To determine whether G-CSF acts partly through the inhibition of nitric oxide synthase (NOS)-2 expression, we administered G-CSF to male NOS-2-/- mice after cerebral ischemia. Although male NOS-2-/- mice exhibit resistance to the gross effects of cerebral ischemia, they display neuronal loss and skilled motor deficits following cerebral ischemia. Administration of G-CSF during reperfusion reduced motor deficit and neuronal loss. Thus, G-CSF is still effective in NOS-2 gene-deficient mice, suggesting that part of the mechanism of action is independent of NOS-2.
The field of neuroimaging witnessed remarkable progress in the post-World War II era, resulting in tremendous benefits for healthcare today. One such important milestone was the development of the computerized axial tomography (CAT) scan. This state of the art technique has paved the way for modern diagnostic imaging like magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Dr William Oldendorf, the first designer of axial tomography, is regarded by some as the true father of neuroimaging. However, because of various reasons, he was unable to succeed with his concept and was also unfortunately denied his due entitlement of the Nobel Prize for Medicine and Physiology in 1979. This article discusses his contributions to the fields of neuroimaging and neurosciences, along with the politics that surrounded the awarding of the Nobel Prize of 1979. Another associated topic that is touched on in this article is the ever-growing dispute over the interpretations of neuroimaging between neurologists and neuroradiologists.
Children with injury to the central nervous system (CNS) exhibit a variety of language disorders that have been described by members of different disciplines, in different journals, using different descriptors and taxonomies. This paper is an overview of language deficits in children with CNS injury, whether congenital or acquired after a period of normal development. It first reviews the principal CNS conditions associated with language disorders in childhood. It then describes a functional taxonomy of language, with examples of the phenomenology and neurobiology of clinical deficits in children with CNS insults. Finally, it attempts to situate language in the broader realm of cognition and in current theoretical accounts of embodied cognition.


We analyzed the records of 44 patients with moyamoya disease evaluated and treated at our Institute from 1998 until 2007. Out of 44 patients, 18 (41%) were in the paediatric age group and 26 (59%) were adults. Presentation was ischemic in 14 (32%) and hemorrhagic in 30 patients (68%). Revascularization was performed in 11 patients (five patients with ischemic presentation and six with hemorrhagic presentation): nine patients underwent indirect revascularization procedures only and two patients underwent indirect revascularization procedures and a combined superficial temporal artery-middle cerebral artery bypass. Thirty-six patients (81.8%) were available for follow-up. Out of 11 patients who underwent revascularization procedures, none had further hemorrhagic or ischemic episodes. Out of the 19 conservatively managed patients who were followed-up, seven (36.8%) developed new episodes of ischemia (n=2) or hemorrhage (n=5). In-hospital mortality was 6.8% (three patients), all of whom were in the hemorrhagic presentation group.
Microdialysis allows sampling of the extra cellular fluid of normal and pathological tissues. Accurate positioning of catheters in viable, representative tumour tissue is crucial for the accuracy and effectiveness of the technique. We have performed microdialysis with the aid of intra-operative three-dimensional ultrasonography (3D-US) to guide the placement of catheters in seven patients undergoing resection for supratentorial high-grade astrocytoma. The final position of the catheter tip membrane was confirmed by intra-operative ultrasound scanning. The accuracy of the spatial targeting was validated by pathological examination and the quality of the microdialysate was checked with ultra performance liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. Our results indicate that intra-operative 3D-US can be used to correctly position catheters for microdialysis and allows adjustment to the catheters, when necessary, prior to the dialysis of viable target tumour tissue.
Patients with schizophrenia show symptom reduction early after the initiation of drug treatment, but no consensus has been reached on the number of weeks after which a nonresponding patient should be switched to an alternative treatment. We aimed to test whether patients should be switched to an alternative treatment at 2, 4, or 6 weeks from treatment initiation. Remission within 12 months was assessed in 299 first-episode patients who completed the full 12-month European First-Episode Schizophrenia Trial. Logistic regression analyses were used to test whether the prediction of remission was improved by including assessments obtained 4 or 6 weeks from treatment initiation compared with a prediction based on baseline and 2-week measures only. Based on baseline and 2-week assessments, remission status was correctly predicted in 61% of the patients (positive and negative predictive power, 0.61 and 0.58, respectively; sensitivity, 0.94; and specificity, 0.12). This percentage increased to 63% (positive and negative predictive power, 0.67 and 0.55, respectively; sensitivity, 0.73; and specificity, 0.47) and 68% (positive and negative predictive power, 0.73 and 0.61, respectively; sensitivity, 0.73; and specificity, 0.60) by the inclusion of 4- and 6-week assessments, respectively. Although we confirmed earlier findings that 2-week measures of response are associated with remission, the prediction of remission is significantly improved by the inclusion of 4- and 6-week assessments. However, as the increase in prediction accuracy is modest, it is uncertain whether this improvement is clinically relevant.
The antisaccade task has proven highly useful in basic and clinical neuroscience, and the neural structures involved are well documented. However, the cognitive and neural mechanisms that mediate task performance are not yet understood. An event-related fMRI study was designed to dissociate the neural correlates of two putative key functions, volitional saccade generation and inhibition of reflexive saccades, and to investigate their interaction. Nineteen healthy volunteers performed a task that required (a) to initiate saccades volitionally, either with or without a simultaneous demand to inhibit a reflexive saccade; and (b) to inhibit a reflexive saccade, either with or without a simultaneous demand to initiate a saccade volitionally. Analysis of blood oxygen level-dependent signal changes confirmed a major role of the frontal eye fields and the supplementary eye fields in volitional saccade generation. Inhibition-related activation of a specific fronto-parietal network was highly consistent with previous evidence involved in inhibitory processes. Unexpectedly, there was little evidence of specific brain activation during combined generation and inhibition demands, suggesting that the neural processing of generation and inhibition in antisaccades is independent to a large extent.
Purkinje cell protein 2 (PCP2), a member of the family of guanine dissociation inhibitors and a strong interactor with the G-protein subunit G alpha(o), localizes to retinal ON bipolar cells. The retina-specific splice variant of PCP2, Ret-PCP2, accelerates the light response of rod bipolar cells by modulating the mGluR6 transduction cascade. All ON cone bipolar cells express mGluR6 and G alpha(o), but only a subset expresses Ret-PCP2. Here we test the hypothesis that Ret-PCP2 contributes to shaping the various temporal bandwidths of ON cone bipolar cells in monkey retina. We found that the retinal splice variants in monkey and mouse are similar and longer than the cerebellar variants. Ret-PCP2 is strongly expressed by diffuse cone bipolar type 4 cells (DB4; marked with anti-PKCalpha) and weakly expressed by midget bipolar dendrites (labeled by antibodies against G alpha(o), G gamma 13, or mGluR6). Ret-PCP2 is absent from diffuse cone bipolar type 6 (DB6; marked with anti-CD15) and blue cone bipolar cells (marked with anti-CCK precursor). Thus, cone bipolar cells that terminate in stratum 3 of the inner plexiform layer (DB4) express more Ret-PCP2 than those that terminate in strata 3 + 4 (midget bipolar cells), and these in turn express more than those that terminate in stratum 5 (DB6 and blue cone bipolar cells). This expression pattern approximates the arborization of ganglion cells (GC) with different temporal bandwidths: parasol GCs stratifying near stratum 3 are faster than midget GCs stratifying in strata 3 + 4, and these are probably faster than the sluggish GCs that arborize in stratum 5.
How spiking neurons cooperate to control behavioral processes is a fundamental problem in computational neuroscience. Such cooperative dynamics are required during visual perception when spatially distributed image fragments are grouped into emergent boundary contours. Perceptual grouping is a challenge for spiking cells because its properties of collinear facilitation and analog sensitivity occur in response to binary spikes with irregular timing across many interacting cells. Some models have demonstrated spiking dynamics in recurrent laminar neocortical circuits, but not how perceptual grouping occurs. Other models have analyzed the fast speed of certain percepts in terms of a single feedforward sweep of activity, but cannot explain other percepts, such as illusory contours, wherein perceptual ambiguity can take hundreds of milliseconds to resolve by integrating multiple spikes over time. The current model reconciles fast feedforward with slower feedback processing, and binary spikes with analog network-level properties, in a laminar cortical network of spiking cells whose emergent properties quantitatively simulate parametric data from neurophysiological experiments, including the formation of illusory contours; the structure of non-classical visual receptive fields; and self-synchronizing gamma oscillations. These laminar dynamics shed new light on how the brain resolves local informational ambiguities through the use of properly designed nonlinear feedback spiking networks which run as fast as they can, given the amount of uncertainty in the data that they process.
Optimal filtering of noisy voltage signals on dendritic trees is a key problem in computational cellular neuroscience. However, the state variable in this problem-the vector of voltages at every compartment-is very high-dimensional: realistic multicompartmental models often have on the order of N = 10(4) compartments. Standard implementations of the Kalman filter require O(N (3)) time and O(N (2)) space, and are therefore impractical. Here we take advantage of three special features of the dendritic filtering problem to construct an efficient filter: (1) dendritic dynamics are governed by a cable equation on a tree, which may be solved using sparse matrix methods in O(N) time; and current methods for observing dendritic voltage (2) provide low SNR observations and (3) only image a relatively small number of compartments at a time. The idea is to approximate the Kalman equations in terms of a low-rank perturbation of the steady-state (zero-SNR) solution, which may be obtained in O(N) time using methods that exploit the sparse tree structure of dendritic dynamics. The resulting methods give a very good approximation to the exact Kalman solution, but only require O(N) time and space. We illustrate the method with applications to real and simulated dendritic branching structures, and describe how to extend the techniques to incorporate spatially subsampled, temporally filtered, and nonlinearly transformed observations.

In rats, a shift from somatotroph dominance to lactotroph dominance during pregnancy and lactation is well reported. Somatotroph to lactotroph transdifferentiation and increased lactotroph mitotic activity are believed to account for this and associated pituitary hypertrophy. A combination of cell death and transdifferentiation away from the lactotroph phenotype has been reported to restore non-pregnant pituitary proportions after weaning. To attempt to confirm that a similar process occurs in mice, we generated and used a transgenic reporter mouse model (prolactin (PRL)-Cre/ROSA26-expression of yellow fluorescent protein (EYFP)) in which PRL promoter activity at any time resulted in permanent, stable, and highly specific EYFP. Triple immunochemistry for GH, PRL, and EYFP was used to quantify EYFP+ve, PRL-ve, and GH+ve cell populations during pregnancy and lactation, and for up to 3 weeks after weaning, and concurrent changes in cell size were estimated. At all stages, the EYFP reporter was expressed in 80% of the lactotrophs, but in fewer than 1% of other pituitary cell types, indicating that transdifferentiation from those lactotrophs where reporter expression was activated is extremely rare. Contrary to expectations, no increase in the lactotroph/somatotroph ratio was seen during pregnancy and lactation, whether assessed by immunochemistry for the reporter or PRL: findings confirmed by PRL immunochemistry in non-transgenic mice. Mammosomatotrophs were rarely encountered at the age group studied. Individual EYFP+ve cell volumes increased significantly by mid-lactation compared with virgin animals. This, in combination with a modest and non-cell type-specific estrogen-induced increase in mitotic activity, could account for pregnancy-induced changes in overall pituitary size.
Brain-derived neurotropic factor (BDNF) mediates many aspects of neuronal function, and plays a chief role in the central regulation of energy balance. In the periphery, it is expressed in organs involved in energy, lipid, and glucose homeostasis, including the liver, but its role there remains unclear. Here, we describe studies examining the effect of selectively depleting hepatic BDNF. Liver-specific mutant mice exhibited normal food intake and body weights when fed standard chow or high-fat diets (HFDs). However, whereas HFD intake induced mild hyperglycemia and hyperinsulinemia in wild-types (WTs), liver-specific BDNF mutants were protected from these effects. Serum levels of cholesterol and triglycerides were also elevated in HFD-fed WTs, but they were normal or slightly increased in BDNF mutants. Furthermore, whereas WTs fed HFD exhibited elevated levels of circulating alanine aminotransferase and aspartate aminotransferase, BDNF mutant males fed a similar diet had a normal content of both enzymes. Molecular analysis indicated that the livers of BDNF mutants fed HFD contained elevated levels of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (Pparalpha or Ppara as listed in the MGI Database) and fibroblast growth factor 21 (Fgf21) transcripts compared with WTs. This is a notable finding as this pathway has anti-diabetic and lipid clearance effects. Accordingly, genes involved in lipid and glucose handling and targets of PPARalpha and FGF21 were upregulated in the BDNF mutant livers. The collective data indicate that hepatic BDNF might facilitate the emergence of insulin resistance, dyslipidemia, and liver disease following HFD challenge by suppressing PPARalpha and FGF21.
At any one time, animals are simultaneously bombarded with many sensory stimuli, but they typically choose to respond to only a few of them. We used multidimensional analysis to determine the behavioral responses of six species of leeches to stimulation, as the responses are affected by species identity, diet, behavioral state and stimulus location. Our results show that each of the species tested while not feeding displayed remarkably similar behaviors in response to tactile stimulation of the surface of the body. When not feeding, stimulus location was the most reliable factor in determining behavioral response. While feeding, the three sanguivorous (bloodsucking) species tested ignored stimulation, whereas the three carnivorous leeches abandoned feeding in favor of locomotory responses, regardless of phylogenetic relationships. In the sanguivorous leeches, feeding abolished all mechanically elicited responses and mechanical stimulation in turn had no effect on feeding. We also show that the behavioral hierarchy of leeches was fixed and unchanging even in species that can consume both a carnivorous and a sanguivorous diet.
The primary olfactory centres of the sphinx moth Manduca sexta, the antennal lobes, contain a small number of sexually dimorphic glomeruli: the male-specific macroglomerular complex and the large female glomeruli. These glomeruli play important roles in sex-specific behaviours, such as the location of conspecific females and the selection of appropriate host plants for oviposition. The development of sexually dimorphic glomeruli depends strictly on the ingrowth of sex-specific olfactory receptor cell afferents. In the present study we tested the role of female-specific olfactory receptor cells (ORCs) in mediating female-specific host plant approach behaviour and in determining the response of downstream antennal lobe neurons. We generated male gynandromorphs by excising one imaginal disc from a male larva and replacing it with the antennal imaginal disc from a female donor. Most male gynandromorphs had an apparently normal female antenna and a feminised antennal lobe. These gynandromorphs were tested for flight responses in a wind tunnel towards tomato plants, a preferred host plant for oviposition in M. sexta. Male gynandromorphs landed on host plants as often as normal females, demonstrating that the presence of the induced female-specific glomeruli was necessary and sufficient to produce female-like, odour-oriented behaviour, i.e. orientation towards host plants. We also characterised the physiological and morphological properties of antennal lobe neurons of male gynandromorphs. We found that projection neurons with arborisations in the induced female-specific glomeruli showed physiological responses akin to those of female-specific projection neurons in normal females. These results therefore indicate that ORCs confer specific odour tuning to their glomerular targets and, furthermore, instruct odour-specific behaviour.

This study of married couples investigated the short-term predictive validity of the partner-report and self-report scales of the Conflict Communication Inventory and compared the validity of these scales with the validity of observer ratings. A sample of 83 married couples completed two problem-solving conversations. Self-report, partner-report, and observer ratings from Conversation 1 were used to predict behavior in Conversation 2, as rated by a separate panel of observers. The short-term predictive validity of partner-report ratings was extremely high and indistinguishable from the validity of observer ratings. Self-report ratings also demonstrated good validity, albeit slightly lower than other methods. Both partner-report and self-report scores explained a substantial amount of variance in concurrent observer ratings of communication after controlling for relationship satisfaction.
In vertebrate olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs), odorant-induced activation of the transduction cascade culminates in production of cyclic AMP, which opens cyclic nucleotide-gated channels in the ciliary membrane enabling Ca(2+) influx. The ensuing elevation of the intraciliary Ca(2+) concentration opens Ca(2+)-activated Cl(-) channels, which mediate an excitatory Cl(-) efflux from the cilia. In order for the response to terminate, the Cl(-) channel must close, which requires that the intraciliary Ca(2+) concentration return to basal levels. Hitherto, the extrusion of Ca(2+) from the cilia has been thought to depend principally on a Na(+)-Ca(2+) exchanger. In this study, we show using simultaneous suction pipette recording and Ca(2+)-sensitive dye fluorescence measurements that in fire salamander ORNs, withdrawal of external Na(+) from the solution bathing the cilia, which incapacitates Na(+)-Ca(2+)exchange, has only a modest effect on the recovery of the electrical response and the accompanying decay of intraciliary Ca(2+) concentration. In contrast, exposure of the cilia to vanadate or carboxyeosin, a manipulation designed to block Ca(2+)-ATPase, has a substantial effect on response recovery kinetics. Therefore, we conclude that Ca(2+)-ATPase contributes to Ca(2+) extrusion in ORNs, and that Na(+)-Ca(2+)exchange makes only a modest contribution to Ca(2+) homeostasis in this species.
The time scale of the photoresponse in photoreceptor cells is set by the slowest of the steps that quench the light-induced activity of the phototransduction cascade. In vertebrate photoreceptor cells, this rate-limiting reaction is thought to be either shutoff of catalytic activity in the photopigment or shutoff of the pigment's effector, the transducin-GTP-phosphodiesterase complex. In suction pipette recordings from isolated salamander L-cones, we found that preventing changes in internal [Ca(2+)] delayed the recovery of the light response and prolonged the dominant time constant for recovery. Evidence that the Ca(2+)-sensitive step involved the pigment itself was provided by the observation that removal of Cl(-) from the pigment's anion-binding site accelerated the dominant time constant for response recovery. Collectively, these observations indicate that in L-cones, unlike amphibian rods where the dominant time constant is insensitive to [Ca(2+)], pigment quenching rate limits recovery and provides an additional mechanism for modulating the cone response during light adaptation.
In this study, the author examines the effect of attentional control and heart-period variability on measures of negative affect and trait anxiety in undergraduate students. Baseline heart rate was recorded from 119 participants within a laboratory setting. Spectral analysis was used on the heart-rate data to isolate the parasympathetic contribution to the cardiac pattern. Participants completed measures of negative affect, attentional control, and trait anxiety following the recording of heart rate. Regression analysis indicated that high negative affect, low attentional control, and reduced parasympathetic tone were significant predictors of high trait anxiety. Subsequent regression analysis pointed toward the interaction of attentional control and parasympathetic tone in influencing self-rated measures of negative affect. Results highlight the importance of attentional control and parasympathetic tone as regulatory mechanisms related to self-rated estimates of negative affect and trait anxiety.
Topiramate is known to be efficacious in migraine prophylaxis, but its optimal dose has not been systematically studied in the Asian population. Here, we show that a fixed low dose of topiramate 25 mg/day is efficacious in migraine prophylaxis and also attest to advantages in terms of medication cost savings and more favourable side effect profile.
Primary stabbing headache (PSH) is a short-lasting but troublesome headache disorder, which has been known for several decades. The head pain occurs as a single stab or as a series of stabs generally involving the area supplied by the first division of trigeminal nerve. Stabs last for approximately a few seconds, occurring and recurring from once to multiple times per day in an irregular pattern. For the diagnosis of PSH, it is mandatory that any other underlying disorder is ruled out. Indomethacin represents the principal option in the treatment of PSH, despite therapeutic failure in up to 35% of the cases. Recent reports showed that cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitors, gabapentin, nifedipine, paracetamol and melatonin may also be effective. In this report, we focus on the therapy of PSH summarizing the information collected from a systematic analysis of the international literature over the period 1980-2009.
The ketogenic diet (KD) is a high fat, restricted carbohydrate regime that has been used as a treatment for seizures since the 1920s, when it was designed to induce a similar metabolic response to fasting. A modification of this early classical version of the KD was introduced in the 1970s using medium chain triglycerides as an alternative fat source. More recently, two alternative, less-restrictive dietary treatments have been developed: the modified Atkins diet and the low glycaemic index diet. There are many case reports and observational studies reporting successful use of the KD, and a growing number of studies reporting similar success with the modified Atkins protocol. A recent randomised controlled trial has shown a significant benefit of the KD compared to no change in treatment. The use of these dietary therapies in the UK is supported by literature evidence, although often is limited by a lack of resources; increasing awareness and knowledge is fundamental to ensure availability for those individuals with intractable epilepsy who may benefit from them.

Mycobacterium tuberculosis, the causative agent of pulmonary tuberculosis, infects one-third of the world's population. Activation of host immune responses for containment of mycobacterial infections involves participation of innate immune cells, such as dendritic cells (DCs). DCs are sentinels of the immune system and are important for eliciting both primary and secondary immune responses to pathogens. In this context, to understand the molecular pathogenesis of tuberculosis and host response to mycobacteria and to conceive prospective vaccine candidates, it is important to understand how cell wall Ags of M. tuberculosis and, in particular, the proline-glutamic acid_polymorphic guanine-cytosine-rich sequence (PE_PGRS) family of proteins modulate DC maturation and function. In this study, we demonstrate that two cell wall-associated/secretory PE_PGRS proteins, PE_PGRS 17 (Rv0978c) and PE_PGRS 11 (Rv0754), recognize TLR2, induce maturation and activation of human DCs, and enhance the ability of DCs to stimulate CD4(+) T cells. We further found that PE_PGRS protein-mediated activation of DCs involves participation of ERK1/2, p38 MAPK, and NF-kappaB signaling pathways. Priming of human DCs with IFN-gamma further augmented PE_PGRS 17 or PE_PGRS 11 Ag-induced DC maturation and secretion of key proinflammatory cytokines. Our results suggest that by activating DCs, PE_PGRS proteins, important mycobacterial cell wall Ags, could potentially contribute in the initiation of innate immune responses during tuberculosis infection and hence regulate the clinical course of tuberculosis.
We investigated the distribution and navigation of periprostatic nerve fibers and constructed a 3-dimensional model of nerve distribution. A total of 5 cadaver specimens were serially sectioned in a transverse direction with 0.5 cm intervals. Hematoxylineosin staining and immunohistochemical staining were then performed on whole-mount sections. Three representative slides from the base, mid-part, and apex of each prostate were subsequently divided into 4 sectors: two lateral, one ventral, and one dorsal (rectal) part. The number of nerve fibers, the distance from nerve fiber to prostate capsule, and the nerve fiber diameters were analyzed on each sector from the representative slides by microscopy. Periprostatic nerve fibers revealed a relatively even distribution in both lateral and dorsal parts of the prostate. There was no difference in the distances from the prostate capsule to nerve fibers. Nerve fibers in the ventral area were also thinner as compared to other areas. In conclusion, periprostatic nerve fibers were observed to be distributed evenly in the periprostatic area, with the exception of the ventral area. As the number of nerve fibers on the ventral part is fewer in comparison, an excessive high up incision is insignificant during the nerve-sparing radical prostatectomy.
Recent years have witnessed impressive advances in the use of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) for the assessment of patients with multiple sclerosis (MS). Complementary to the clinical evaluation, conventional MRI provides crucial pieces of information for the diagnosis of MS. However, the correlation between the burden of lesions observed on conventional MRI scans and the clinical manifestations of the disease remains weak. The discrepancy between clinical and conventional MRI findings in MS is explained, at least partially, by the limited ability of conventional MRI to characterize and quantify the heterogeneous features of MS pathology. Other quantitative MR-based techniques, however, have the potential to overcome such a limitation of conventional MRI. Indeed, magnetization transfer MRI, diffusion tensor MRI, proton MR spectroscopy, and functional MRI are contributing to elucidate the mechanisms that underlie injury, repair, and functional adaptation in patients with MS. Such techniques are likely to benefit from the use of high-field MR systems and thus allow in the near future providing additional insight into all these aspects of the disease. This review summarizes how MRI is dramatically changing our understanding of the factors associated with the accumulation of irreversible disability in MS and highlights the reasons why they should be used more extensively in studies of disease evolution and clinical trials.
Despite some progress in therapy, the prognosis of patients with malignant gliomas remains poor. Local delivery of cytostatics to the tumour has been proven to be an efficacious therapeutic approach but which nevertheless needs further improvements. Drug Eluting Beads (DEB), have been developed as drug delivery embolisation systems for use in trans-arterial chemoembolisation. We tested in a rat model of malignant glioma, whether DEB, loaded with doxorubicin or irinotecan, may be used for local treatment of brain tumours. Unloaded and drug loaded DEB were implanted into the brains of healthy and tumour bearing BD IX rats followed by histological investigations and survival assessment. Intracerebral implantation of unloaded DEB caused no significant local tissue damage, whilst both doxorubicin and irinotecan DEB improved survival time significantly. However, a significant local toxicity was found after the implantation of doxorubicin DEB but not with irinotecan DEB. We concluded that irinotecan appears to be superior in terms of the risk-benefit ratio and that DEB may be used for local treatment of brain tumours.
The behavior of females in search of a mate determines the likelihood that high quality males are encountered and adaptive search strategies rely on the effective use of available information on the quality of prospective mates. The sequential search strategy was formulated, like most models of search behavior, on the assumption that females obtain perfect information on the quality of encountered males. In this paper, we modify the strategy to allow for uncertainty of male quality and we determine how the magnitude of this uncertainty and the ability of females to inspect multiple male attributes to reduce uncertainty influence mate choice decisions. In general, searchers are sensitive to search costs and higher costs lower acceptance criteria under all versions of the model. The choosiness of searchers increases with the variability of the quality of prospective mates under conditions of the original model, but under conditions of uncertainty the choosiness of searchers may increase or decrease with the variability of inspected male attributes. The behavioral response depends on the functional relationship between observed male attributes and the fitness return to searchers and on costs associated with the search process. Higher uncertainty often induces searchers to pay more for information and under conditions of uncertainty the fitness return to searchers is never higher than under conditions of the original model. Further studies of the performance of alternative search strategies under conditions of uncertainty may consequently be necessary to identify search strategies likely to be used under natural conditions.
Communication interfaces for medical devices are normally wired. For long-term monitoring applications, wired devices limit patient mobility. In this paper a wireless communication interface for an EEG/PSG Holter monitor is presented. Selection of broadcasting band, communication standard, available hardware, and connection algorithm to use are discussed before making a choice. Results of experimental tests carried out on the prototype demonstrate the functionality of the implemented interface.
The total number of tuberculosis cases in the world is increasing, and less common forms of tuberculous meningitis (TBM) with varying imaging manifestations are being encountered more often. We describe anterior interhemispheric variety of TBM, which has not been previously described to the best of our knowledge in the literature. Common imaging findings in these five patients include predominant involvement of the meninges in the anterior interhemispheric fissure with relatively little enhancement of the basal cisterns. Knowledge of uncommon radiological findings is vital in early diagnosis and treatment of this common disease.

Prefibrillar oligomers of the beta-amyloid peptide (A beta) are recognized as potential mediators of Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathophysiology. Deficits in synaptic function, neurotoxicity, and the progression of AD have all been linked to the oligomeric A beta assemblies rather than to A beta monomers or to amyloid plaques. However, the molecular sites of A beta oligomer action have remained largely unknown. Recently, the cellular prion protein (PrP(C)) has been shown to act as a functional receptor for A beta oligomers in brain slices. Because PrP(C) serves as the substrate for Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease (CJD), these data suggest mechanistic similarities between the two neurodegenerative diseases. Here, we review the importance of A beta oligomers in AD, commonalities between AD and CJD, and the newly emergent role of PrP(C) as a receptor for A beta oligomers.
There is evidence that spalacine, tachyoryctine, and myospalacine mole-rats all communicate with conspecifics through a form of seismic signaling, but the route for the detection of these signals is disputed. It has been proposed that two unusual anatomical adaptations in Spalax allow jaw vibrations to pass to the inner ear via the incus and stapes: a pseudoglenoid (=postglenoid) fossa which accomodates the condylar process of the mandible, and a bony cup, supported by a periotic lamina, through which the incus articulates with the skull. In this study, a combination of dissection and computed tomography was used to examine the ear region in more detail in both Spalax and its subterranean relatives Tachyoryctes and Eospalax, about which much less is known. Tachyoryctes was found to lack a pseudoglenoid fossa, while Eospalax lacks a periotic lamina and bony cup. This shows that these structures need not simultaneously be present for the detection of ground vibrations in mole-rats. Based on the observed anatomy, three hypothetical modes of bone conduction are argued to represent more likely mechanisms through which mole-rats can detect ground vibrations: ossicular inertial bone conduction, a pathway involving sound radiation into the external auditory meatus, and a newly-described fluid pathway between pseudoglenoid fossa and cranial cavity. The caudolateral extension of the tympanic cavity and the presence of a bony cup might represent synapomorphies uniting Spalax and Tachyoryctes, while the loss of the tensor tympani muscle in Spalax and Eospalax may be convergently derived.
Methylphenidate (MPH) is a very effective treatment option for children and adolescents with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder. Nevertheless, there have been inconsistent reports regarding the effects of MPH on learning and memory. The aim of this study was to evaluate whether the treatment with MPH during the morning differs from that during the night on learning and memory (short and long term) in young and adult male Wistar rats. The animals received once daily intraperitoneal injection of either MPH (2 mg/kg) or saline (0.9%) for 28 days (either in the morning or at night). The animals underwent two behavioral tasks to evaluate learning and memory: inhibitory avoidance task and continuous multiple trials step-down inhibitory avoidance (CMIA). Young rats treated in the morning showed significant impaired long-term memory for inhibitory avoidance training and facilitated acquisition in the CMIA. Adult rats treated in the night showed impaired long-term retention in the CMIA. We observed similar performances in both tests for young rats treated at night or adult rats treated in the morning. Our results suggest that age and time of treatment can alter the MPH effects in learning and memory.
The amyloid precursor protein (APP) is critically involved in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease, and is strongly up-regulated in response to traumatic, metabolic, or toxic insults to the nervous system. The processing of APP by gamma/epsilon-secretase activity results in the generation of the APP intracellular domain (AICD). Previously, we have shown that AICD induces the expression of genes (transgelin, alpha2-actin) with functional roles in actin organization and dynamics and demonstrated that the induction of AICD and its co-activator Fe65 (AICD/Fe65) resulted in a loss of organized filamentous actin structures within the cell. As mitochondrial function is thought to be reliant on ordered actin dynamics, we examined mitochondrial function in human SHEP neuroblastoma cells inducibly expressing AICD/Fe65. Confocal analysis of the mitochondrial membrane potential (DeltaPsim) identified a significant decrease in the DeltaPsim in the AICD50/Fe65 over-expressing cells. This was paralleled by significantly reduced ATP levels and decreased basal superoxide production. Overexpression of the proposed AICD target gene transgelin in SHEP-SF parental cells and primary neurons was sufficient to destabilize actin filaments, depolarize DeltaPsim, and significantly alter mitochondrial distribution and morphology. Our data demonstrate that the induction of AICD/Fe65 or transgelin significantly alters actin dynamics and mitochondrial function in neuronal cells.
The dopamine transporter (DAT) plays a key role in regulating dopaminergic signalling in the brain by mediating rapid clearance of dopamine from the synaptic clefts. The psychostimulatory actions of cocaine and amphetamine are primarily the result of a direct interaction of these compounds with DAT leading to attenuated dopamine clearance and for amphetamine even increased dopamine release. In the last decade, intensive efforts have been directed towards understanding the molecular and cellular mechanisms governing the activity and availability of DAT in the plasma membrane of the pre-synaptic neurons. This has led to the identification of a plethora of different kinases, receptors and scaffolding proteins that interact with DAT and hereby either modulate the catalytic activity of the transporter or regulate its trafficking and degradation. Several new tools for studying DAT regulation in live cells have also recently become available such as fluorescently tagged cocaine analogues and fluorescent substrates. Here we review the current knowledge about the role of protein-protein interactions in DAT regulation as well as we describe the most recent methodological developments that have been established to overcome the challenges associated with the study of DAT in endogenous systems.
Stargazin is a transmembrane alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptor regulatory protein that controls the surface and synaptic expression of AMPA-type glutamate receptors (AMPARs). Synaptic anchoring of AMPARs is influenced by the interaction between stargazin's C-terminal post-synaptic density-95 (PSD-95)/discs large/zona occludens-1 (PDZ) ligand and the synaptic scaffolding protein PSD-95. Phosphorylation of the stargazin PDZ ligand by protein kinase A (PKA) disrupts stargazin's interaction with PSD-95, but whether this phosphorylation plays a role in activity-dependent regulation of stargazin/AMPAR synaptic trafficking is unknown. Here, we show that stargazin is phosphorylated within the PDZ ligand at threonine residue 321 (T321) by mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) as well as PKA. By expressing constructs that selectively block T321 phosphorylation by either PKA or MAPKs, we show that stargazin T321 phosphorylation is required for activity-dependent changes in stargazin synaptic clustering in dissociated rat hippocampal neuron cultures. Specifically, we find that mutations that block stargazin T321 phosphorylation by PKA prevent activity-dependent increases in stargazin synaptic clustering, whereas a point mutant that blocks MAPK phosphorylation of T321 prevents activity-dependent decreases in stargazin synaptic clustering. Taken together, our studies implicate phosphorylation of stargazin T321 by PKA and MAPKs in bidirectional control of stargazin/AMPAR synaptic clustering during synaptic plasticity.
The expression of the novel peptide apelin and its receptor APJ within specific regions of the brain, in particular the magnocellular neurones of the hypothalamus and the circumventricular organs, has implicated the apelinergic system in mechanisms controlling fluid homeostasis. In addition, apelin and APJ are considered to be involved in controlling arginine vasopressin (AVP) secretion into the circulation and release within the hypothalamic-neurohypophysial system. To clarify the role of APJ during regulation of fluid homeostasis, we compared the effects of osmotic stimulation on the urinary concentrating capacities and central nervous system responses of salt-loaded (SL) and water-deprived (WD) female APJ knockout (APJ(-/-)) mice and wild-type controls. SL resulted in a significantly increased urine volume in APJ(-/-) mice compared to wild-type controls, whereas WD in APJ(-/-) mice failed to reduce urine volume as seen in wild-type controls. AVP transcripts in the supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei and plasma AVP concentrations were significantly attenuated in SL APJ(-/-) mice compared to SL wild-type, but increased comparably in wild-type and APJ(-/-) mice after WD. Analysis of c-fos mRNA expression in the median preoptic nucleus and subfornical organ in response to either WD or SL showed attenuated expression in APJ(-/-) compared to wild-type mice. These findings further implicate the apelinergic system in mechanisms controlling fluid homeostasis, particularly at a neuroendocrine level, and suggest stimulus-specific involvement in vasopressinergic activity.
The posterodorsal medial amygdala (MeApd) and principal nucleus of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (pBST) are densely interconnected sites integrating steroid hormone and olfactory information necessary for sociosexual behaviours in many rodents. Our laboratory recently reported sexually dimorphic populations of cells containing tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) located in the MeApd and pBST of prairie voles (Microtus ochrogaster), with males having many more TH-immunoreactive (-ir) cells in these sites than do females. Gonadal hormones circulating during adulthood were showm to regulate this sex difference because it was eliminated by castrating adult males or implanting females with testosterone-filled capsules. In the present study, we demonstrate that many (25-65%) TH-ir cells in the MeApd and pBST of adult virgin male and female prairie voles also contain immunoreactivity for either the androgen receptor or oestrogen receptor alpha. Subcutaneous implants of oestradiol benzoate mimicked the effects of testosterone and maintained high numbers of TH-ir cells in these sites in castrated males. However, implants of dihydrotestosterone (DHT) did not, and these males had low numbers of TH-ir cells similar to castrated males given empty capsules. A similar effect was found in females, where testosterone or oestradiol benzoate greatly increased the number of TH-ir cells in these sites compared to intact or ovariectomised controls, but DHT did not. DHT implants did, however, maintain high seminal vesicle weights in males. Thus, many of the TH-ir cells in the prairie vole MeApd and pBST are potentially sensitive to androgens and oestrogens, although maintaining immunocytochemically detectable levels of TH in these cells may depend more on an oestrogen-mediated mechanism in both sexes. These data have implications for understanding how gonadal hormone release across the reproductive cycle modulates these species-specific groups of catecholaminergic cells and socially monogamous behaviours in prairie voles.
Motherhood differentially affects learning and memory performance and this effect depends on reproductive experience. In turn, evidence suggests that the effects of oestradiol on learning and memory are mediated through binding to oestrogen receptors in the hippocampus and that this is related to hippocampal neurogenesis. The present study investigated the effect of pregnancy and reproductive experience on ERalpha expression throughout the hippocampus, as well as cell proliferation, new cell survival and cell death (as measured by pyknotic cells) in the granule cell layer of the hippocampus. Three groups of female Sprague-Dawley rats were used: virgin, primigravid and multigravid. All rats were injected with 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine (BrdU; 200 mg/kg) on the afternoon of impregnation and at matched time-points in virgins. Rats were perfused either during early pregnancy (gestation day 1) or late pregnancy (gestation day 21) after BrdU injection. The results obtained show that, during late pregnancy, females, whether first or second pregnancy, have fewer ERalpha-positive cells in the CA3 region of the dorsal hippocampus than virgin females. In addition during early pregnancy, females have significantly fewer pyknotic cells in the granule cell layer than virgin females. There were no other differences between groups in the number of ERalpha-positive, BrdU-positive or pyknotic cells. Future studies will aim to investigate the mechanisms and consequences of the alteration in ERalpha expression in the hippocampus during late pregnancy, as well as the possible changes in ERbeta expression at this time.

The biochemical basis of major depression (MD) in Parkinson's disease (PD) is largely unknown. To increase our understanding of MD in PD patients, the levels of monoamine metabolites (HVA, 5-HIAA and MHPG), BDNF, orexin-A, IL-6 and corticosterone were examined in cerebrospinal fluid. The analyses were performed in MD patients with (n = 11) and without (n = 12) PD at baseline and after 12 weeks' of treatment with the antidepressant citalopram, and in patients with solely PD (n = 14) at baseline and after 12 weeks. The major findings were that PD patients with MD had significantly lower baseline levels of MHPG, corticosterone and IL-6 when compared to patients with solely MD. In response to citalopram treatment, patients with solely MD exhibited an expected decrease in 5-HIAA and MHPG levels which was not found in PD patients with MD. Moreover, the levels of BDNF and IL-6 were lower in PD patients with MD compared with patients with solely MD after treatment with citalopram. Thus, the biochemical basis and the response to citalopram differ between PD patients with MD and patients with solely MD.
Imaging-based markers of treatment response are increasingly being used in studies of brain-tumour therapies, for evaluating novel treatments and further understanding of existing therapies. An ultimate goal of these studies is to identify pre- or early-stage treatment imaging biomarkers that enable prediction of subsequent treatment response. We hypothesised that pretreatment MRI-based measurements of tumoural perfusion may provide a suitable imaging-based biomarker for prediction of subsequent treatment response and evaluated this in a group of nine high-grade glioma patients undergoing dexamethasone treatment. A strong positive correlation was observed between tumoural blood flow (R(2)=0.90, p&lt;0.001) and tumoural blood volume (R(2)=0.76, p=0.002), and subsequent treatment response as measured by alterations in tumour leakage properties. These preliminary results indicate that measurements of tumoural perfusion may provide useful imaging biomarkers for predicting treatment response to dexamethasone and would therefore also be worth evaluating in newer emerging therapies.


Genetic classification of Parkinson's disease (PD) subtypes may become the preferred diagnostic tool for neurologists. Herein we compare clinical features from a large cohort of patients with familial PD of unknown aetiology or attributable to distinct genetic forms. Comprehensive neurological examinations were performed in 231 familial PD patients from Tunisia. Analysis was previously performed to screen for mutations in leucine rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2), PTEN induced kinase 1 (PINK1) and parkin (PRKN). Clinical features were compared between patients with genetically undefined PD (n=107) and those with LRRK2 (n=73) and PINK1 (n=42) mutations using regression analyses adjusted for gender, age of onset and disease duration. PRKN cases (n=9) were too few for meaningful statistical analysis. In comparison with genetically undefined patients, LRRK2 mutation carriers had more severe motor symptoms (median Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale scores approximately 1.6 times higher, p&lt;0.001), a higher rate of dyskinesia (OR 4.21, p=0.002) and use of dopamine agonists (OR 3.64, p&lt;0.001), and less postural tremor (OR 0.21, p&lt;0.001). PINK1 mutation carriers presented an increased rate of drug induced dyskinesia (OR 3.81, p=0.007) and a lower rate of postural tremor (OR 0.16, p&lt;0.001) than genetically undefined patients. As expected, PINK1 patients had younger ages and ages at disease onset, and a longer disease duration compared with LRRK2 mutation carriers and genetically undefined patients. Clinical differences between LRRK2, PINK1 and genetically undefined familial PD appear more pronounced than previously appreciated, and may prove useful in clinical practice. As future therapies are targeted to specific protein abnormalities, identifying the genetic causes and associated clinical and pathological features will determine diagnosis, preventative medicine and drug intervention strategies.
An incomplete spinal cord injury (SCI) impairs neural conduction along spared ascending sensory pathways to disrupt the control of residual motor movements. To characterize how SCI affects the activation of the motor cortex by spared ascending sensory pathways, we examined how stimulation of leg afferents facilitates the excitability of the motor cortex in subjects with incomplete SCI. Homo- and heteronymous afferents to the tibialis anterior (TA) representation in the motor cortex were electrically stimulated, and the responses were compared with uninjured controls. In addition, we examined if cortical excitability could be transiently increased by repetitively pairing stimulation of spared ascending sensory pathways with transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS), an intervention termed paired associative stimulation (PAS). In uninjured subjects, activating the tibial nerve at the ankle 45-50 ms before a TMS pulse in a conditioning-test paradigm facilitated the motor-evoked potential (MEP) in the heteronymous TA muscle by twofold on average. In contrast, prior tibial nerve stimulation did not facilitate the TA MEP in individuals with incomplete SCI (n = 8 SCI subjects), even in subjects with less severe injuries. However, we provide evidence that ascending sensory inputs from the homonymous common peroneal nerve (CPN) can, unlike the heteronymous pathways, facilitate the motor cortex to modulate the TA MEP (n = 16 SCI subjects) but only in subjects with less severe injuries. Finally, by repetitively coupling CPN stimulation with coincident TA motor cortex activation during PAS, we show that 7 of 13 SCI subjects produced appreciable (&gt;20%) facilitation of the MEP following the intervention. The increase in corticospinal tract excitability by PAS was transient (&lt;20 min) and tended to be more prevalent in SCI subjects with stronger functional ascending sensory pathways.
Feedforward loops (FFLs) are one of many network motifs identified in a variety of complex networks, but their functional role in neural networks is not well understood. We provide evidence that combinatorial actions of multiple modulators may be organized as FFLs to promote a specific network state in the Aplysia feeding motor network. The Aplysia feeding central pattern generator (CPG) receives two distinct inputs-a higher-order interneuron cerebral-buccal interneuron-2 (CBI-2) and the esophageal nerve (EN)-that promote ingestive and egestive motor programs, respectively. EN stimulation elicits a persistent egestive network state, which enables the network to temporarily express egestive programs following a switch of input from the EN to CBI-2. Previous work showed that a modulatory CPG element, B65, is specifically activated by the EN and participates in establishing the egestive state by enhancing activity of egestion-promoting B20 interneurons while suppressing activity and synaptic outputs of ingestion-promoting B40 interneurons. Here a peptidergic contribution is mediated by small cardioactive peptide (SCP). Immunostaining and mass spectrometry show that SCP is present in the EN and is released on EN stimulation. Importantly, SCP directly enhances activity and synaptic outputs of B20 and suppresses activity and synaptic outputs of B40. Moreover, SCP promotes B65 activity. Thus the direct and indirect (through B65) pathways to B20 and B40 from SCPergic neurons constitute two FFLs with one functioning to promote egestive output and the other to suppress ingestive output. This composite FFL consisting of the two combined FFLs appears to be an effective means to co-regulate activity of two competing elements that do not inhibit each other, thereby contributing to establish specific network states.
The rate at which neurons fire has wide-reaching implications for the coding schemes used by neural systems. Despite the extensive use of the barrel cortex as a model system, relatively few studies have examined the rate of sensory activity in single neurons in freely moving animals. We examined the activity of barrel cortex neurons in behaving animals during sensory cue interaction, during non-stimulus-related activity, during various states of sleep, and during the administration of isoflurane. The activity of regular-spiking units (RSUs: predominantly excitatory neurons) and fast spiking units (FSUs: a subtype of inhibitory interneurons) was examined separately. We characterized activity by calculating neural firing rates, because several reports have emphasized the low firing rates in this system, reporting that both baseline activity and stimulus evoked activity is &lt;1 Hz. We report that, during sensory cue interaction or non-stimulus-related activity, the majority of RSUs in rat barrel cortex fired at rates significantly &gt;1 Hz, with 27.4% showing rates above 10 Hz during cue interaction. Even during slow wave sleep, which had the lowest mean and median firing rates of any nonanesthetized state observed, 80.0% of RSUs fired above 1 Hz. During all of the nonanesthetized states observed 100% of the FSUs fired well above 1 Hz. When rats were administered isoflurane and at a depth of anesthesia used in standard in vivo electrophysiological preparations, all of the RSUs fired below 1 Hz. We also found that &gt;80% of RSUs either upmodulated or downmodulated their firing during cue interaction. These data suggest that low firing rates do not typify the output of the barrel cortex during awake activity and during sleep and indicate that sensory coding at both the individual and population levels may be nonsparse.
Long-term potentiation (LTP) is a cellular model of synaptic plasticity and reflects an increase of synaptic strength. LTP is also present in the nociceptive system and is believed to be one of the key mechanisms involved in the manifestations of chronic pain. LTP manifested as an increased response in pain perception can be induced in humans using high-frequency electrical stimulation (HFS). The aim of this study was to induce spinal heterosynaptic LTP using HFS and investigate its heterotopic effects on event-related potentials (ERPs) to repeated nonpainful cutaneous stimuli as a possible electrophysiological cortical correlate of sensitization. Twenty-two healthy subjects were randomly assigned to one of the two experimental conditions: HFS and control stimulation. Before and after the stimulation, both conditions received heterotopic mechanical (pinprick) and paired nonpainful electrical test stimuli to quantify and confirm the effects of HFS on the behavioral level. ERPs to paired nonpainful electrical stimulation were measured simultaneously. Conditioning HFS resulted in significant heterotopic effects after 30 min, including increased perceived intensity in response to (pinprick) mechanical and paired nonpainful electrical stimulation compared with control. The paired nonpainful electrical stimuli were accompanied by significantly enhanced responses regarding the ERP N1-P2 peak-to-peak and P300 amplitude compared with control. These findings suggest that HFS is capable of producing heterosynaptic spinal LTP that can be measured not only behaviorally but also using ERPs.
The development of modern neuroscience tools is critical for deciphering brain circuit organization and function. An important aspect for technical development is to enhance each technique's advantages and compensate for limitations. We developed a high-precision and fast functional mapping technique in brain slices that incorporates the spatial precision of activation that can be achieved by laser-scanning photostimulation with rapid and high-temporal resolution assessment of evoked network activity that can be achieved by voltage-sensitive dye imaging. Unlike combination of whole cell recordings with photostimulation for mapping local circuit inputs to individually recorded neurons, this innovation is a new photostimulation-based technique to map cortical circuit output and functional connections at the level of neuronal populations. Here we report on this novel technique in detail and show its effective applications in mapping functional connections and circuit dynamics in mouse primary visual cortex and hippocampus. Given that this innovation enables rapid mapping and precise evaluation of cortical organization and function, it can have broad impacts in the field of cortical circuitry.
The basal ganglia are a subcortical assembly of nuclei involved in many aspects of behavior. Three of the nuclei have high firing rates and inhibitory influences: the substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr), globus pallidus interna (GPi), and globus pallidus externa (GPe). The SNr contains a wide range of visual, cognitive, and motor signals that have been shown to contribute to saccadic eye movements. Our hypothesis was that GPe and GPi neurons carry similarly diverse signals during saccadic behavior. We recorded from GPe, GPi, and SNr neurons in monkeys that made memory-guided saccades and found that neurons in all three structures had increases or decreases in activity synchronized with saccade generation, visual stimulation, or reward. Comparing GPe neurons with GPi neurons, we found relatively more visual-related activity in GPe and more reward-related activity in GPi. Comparing both pallidal samples with the SNr, we found a greater resemblance between GPe and SNr neurons than that between GPi and SNr neurons. As expected from a known inhibitory projection from GPe to SNr, there was a general reversal of sign in activity modulations between the structures: bursts of activity were relatively more common in GPe and pauses more common in SNr. We analyzed the response fields of neurons in all three structures and found relatively narrow and lateralized fields early in trials (during visual and saccadic events) followed by a broadening later in trials (during reward). Our data reinforce an emerging, new consensus that the GPe and GPi, in addition to the SNr, contribute to oculomotor behavior.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the role of response latency in discrimination of chemical stimuli by geniculate ganglion neurons in the rat. Accordingly, we recorded single-cell 5-s responses from geniculate ganglion neurons (n = 47) simultaneously with stimulus-evoked summated potentials (electrogustogram; EGG) from the anterior tongue to signal when the stimulus contacted the lingual epithelium. Artificial saliva served as the rinse solution and solvent for all stimuli [(0.5 M sucrose, 0.03-0.5 M NaCl, 0.01 M citric acid, and 0.02 M quinine hydrochloride (QHCl)], 0.1 M KCl as well as for 0.1 M NaCl +1 M benzamil. Cluster analysis separated neurons into four groups (sucrose specialists, NaCl specialists, NaCl/QHCl generalists and acid generalists). Artificial saliva elevated spontaneous firing rate and response frequency of all neurons. As a rule, geniculate ganglion neurons responded with the highest frequency and shortest latency to their best stimulus with acid generalist the only exception. For specialist neurons and NaCl/QHCl generalists, the average response latency to the best stimulus was two to four times shorter than the latency to secondary stimuli. For NaCl-specialist neurons, response frequency increased and response latency decreased systematically with increasing NaCl concentration; benzamil significantly decreased NaCl response frequency and increased response latency. Acid-generalist neurons had the highest spontaneous firing rate and were the only group that responded consistently to citric acid and KCl. For many acid generalists, a citric-acid-evoked inhibition preceded robust excitation. We conclude that response latency may be an informative coding signal for peripheral chemosensory neurons.
An operant is a behavioral act that has an impact on the environment to produce an outcome, constituting an important component of voluntary behavior. Because the environment can be volatile, the same action may cause different consequences. Thus to obtain an optimal outcome, it is crucial to detect action-outcome relationships and adapt the behavior accordingly. Although prefrontal neurons are known to change activity depending on expected reward, it remains unknown whether prefrontal activity contributes to obtaining reward. We investigated this issue by setting variable relationships between levels of single-neuron activity and rewarding outcomes. Lateral prefrontal neurons changed their spiking activity according to the specific requirements for gaining reward, without the animals making a motor response. Thus spiking activity constituted an operant response. Data from a control task suggested that these changes were unlikely to reflect simple reward predictions. These data demonstrate a remarkable capacity of prefrontal neurons to adapt to specific operant requirements at the single-neuron level.
Learning typically increases the strength of responses and the number of neurons that respond to training stimuli. Few studies have explored representational plasticity using natural stimuli, however, leaving unknown the changes that accompany learning under more realistic conditions. Here, we examine experience-dependent plasticity in European starlings, a songbird with rich acoustic communication signals tied to robust, natural recognition behaviors. We trained starlings to recognize conspecific songs and recorded the extracellular spiking activity of single neurons in the caudomedial nidopallium (NCM), a secondary auditory forebrain region analogous to mammalian auditory cortex. Training induced a stimulus-specific weakening of the neural responses (lower spike rates) to the learned songs, whereas the population continued to respond robustly to unfamiliar songs. Additional experiments rule out stimulus-specific adaptation and general biases for novel stimuli as explanations of these effects. Instead, the results indicate that associative learning leads to single neuron responses in which both irrelevant and unfamiliar stimuli elicit more robust responses than behaviorally relevant natural stimuli. Detailed analyses of these effects at a finer temporal scale point to changes in the number of motifs eliciting excitatory responses above a neuron's spontaneous discharge rate. These results show a novel form of experience-dependent plasticity in the auditory forebrain that is tied to associative learning and in which the overall strength of responses is inversely related to learned behavioral significance.
Neuroscience intensive care unit (ICU) nurses deliver a number of interventions when caring for critically ill traumatic brain injury (TBI) patients. Yet, there is little research evidence documenting specific nursing interventions performed. As part of a larger study investigating ICU nurse judgments about secondary brain injury, ICU nurses were asked to identify interventions routinely performed when caring for TBI patients. Quantitative and qualitative analyses indicate that all nurses routinely monitored hemodynamic parameters such as oxygen saturation, blood pressure, and temperature. Nurses were responsible for monitoring intracranial pressure and cerebral perfusion pressure approximately 50% of the time. Qualitative analyses revealed that additional nursing interventions could be categorized as neurophysiological interventions, psychosocial interventions, injury prevention interventions, and interventions to maintain a therapeutic milieu. Findings from this study provide evidence of the multifaceted role of the neuroscience ICU nurse caring for TBI patients and can be used in future research investigating the impact of nursing interventions on patient outcomes.
Metallothioneins I and II (MTI/II) are metal-binding proteins overexpressed in response to brain injury. Recently, we have designed a peptide, termed EmtinB, which is modeled after the beta-domain of MT-II and mimics the biological effects of MTI/II in vitro. Here, we demonstrate the neuroprotective effect of EmtinB in the in vitro and in vivo models of kainic acid (KA)-induced neurotoxicity. We show that EmtinB passes the blood-brain barrier and is detectable in plasma for up to 24 hr. Treatment with EmtinB significantly attenuates seizures in C57BL/6J mice exposed to moderate (20 mg/kg) and high (30 mg/kg) KA doses and tends to decrease mortality induced by the high KA dose. Histopathological evaluation of hippocampal (CA3 and CA1) and cortical areas of mice treated with 20 mg/kg KA shows that EmtinB treatment reduces KA-induced neurodegeneration in the CA1 region. These findings establish EmtinB as a promising target for therapeutic development.
The midbrain central gray (periaqueductal gray; PAG) mediates defensive behaviors and is implicated in the rewarding effects of opiate drugs. Projections from the PAG to the ventral tegmental area (VTA) suggest that this region might also regulate behaviors involving motivation and cognition. However, studies have not yet examined the morphological features of PAG axons in the VTA or whether they synapse onto dopamine (DA) or GABA neurons. In this study, we injected anterograde tracers into the rat PAG and used immunoperoxidase to visualize the projections to the VTA. Immunogold-silver labeling for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) or GABA was then used to identify the phenotype of innervated cells. Electron microscopic examination of the VTA revealed axons labeled anterogradely from the PAG, including myelinated and unmyelinated fibers and axon varicosities, some of which formed identifiable synapses. Approximately 55% of these synaptic contacts were of the symmetric (presumably inhibitory) type; the rest were asymmetric (presumably excitatory). These findings are consistent with the presence of both GABA and glutamate projection neurons in the PAG. Some PAG axons contained dense-cored vesicles indicating the presence of neuropeptides in addition to classical neurotransmitters. PAG projections synapsed onto both DA and GABA cells with no obvious selectivity, providing the first anatomical evidence for these direct connections. The results suggest a diverse nature of PAG physiological actions on midbrain neurons. Moreover, as both the VTA and PAG are implicated in the reinforcing actions of opiates, our findings provide a potential substrate for some of the rewarding effects of these drugs.
Oxidative stress is associated with beta-amyloid peptide (A beta) accumulation in the brains of Alzheimer's disease patients. A beta is generated upon the sequential proteolytic cleavage of transmembrane amyloid precursor protein (APP) by two membrane-bound proteases, beta-secretase (BACE1) and the gamma-secretase complex comprising presenilin 1 (PS1), nicastrin, APH-1 and PEN-2. Recent evidence suggests that significant amounts of BACE1 and gamma-secretase components localize in the cholesterol-rich region of membranes known as lipid rafts, where A beta production occurs preferentially. In this study, we investigated the effects of oxidative stress on the BACE1 and gamma-secretase components in lipid rafts using human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells exposed to ethacrynic acid (EA), a compound that induces cellular glutathione depletion. Following exposure of cells to EA, heme oxygenase-1, a marker protein of oxidative stress, was strongly induced. Moreover, treatment with EA resulted in a significant increase in PS1 protein levels, but not those of nicastrin, APH-1, PEN-2 or BACE1, in both cell lysates and the lipid raft fraction. This increase in PS1 protein expression was prevented by co-treatment with an antioxidant, N-acetylcysteine (NAC). EA additionally induced a significant increase in PS1 mRNA expression, which was inhibited by NAC. Finally, EA treatment was found to promote A beta secretion from cells expressing Swedish mutant APP. It appears that in our cell culture model, oxidative stress enhances PS1 protein levels in lipid rafts via up-regulation of PS1 transcription, which may constitute the mechanism underlying the oxidative stress-associated promotion of A beta production.




Parkinson disease (PD) is associated with nigral degeneration and striatal dopamine deficiency. Demonstrating midbrain structural abnormalities with transcranial sonography or diffusion-weighted MRI or showing striatal dopamine terminal dysfunction with PET or SPECT supports the diagnosis and rationalizes the use of dopaminergic medications. In atypical PD variants, transcranial sonography can detect striatal hyperechogenicity, and diffusion-weighted imaging can detect increased putamen water diffusion, whereas (18)F-FDG PET reveals reduced lentiform nucleus glucose metabolism. PET and SPECT can detect changes in striatal dopamine levels after levodopa administration and relate these to motor responses. Loss of cortical dopaminergic and cholinergic function is present in demented PD and, on occasion, amyloid deposits can be detected. Loss of cardiac sympathetic innervation can be sensitively detected in PD with (18)F-dopamine PET or (123)I-metaiodobenzylguanidine SPECT. Finally, PET can detect widespread brain inflammation in PD. This review discusses the role of structural and functional imaging for diagnosing and managing different parkinsonian syndromes.
Deficiency in docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) is associated with impaired visual and neurological development, cognitive decline, macular degeneration, and other neurodegenerative diseases. DHA is concentrated in phospholipids of the brain and retina, with photoreceptor cells having the highest DHA content of all cell membranes. The discovery that neuroprotectin D1 (NPD1; 10R, 17S-dihydroxy-docosa-4Z,7Z,11E,13E,15Z,19Z-hexaenoic acid) is a bioactive mediator of DHA sheds light on the biological importance of this fatty acid. In oxidative stress-challenged human retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cells, human brain cells, or brain ischemia-reperfusion, NPD1 synthesis is enhanced as a response for sustaining homeostasis. Thus, neurotrophins, Abeta peptide (Abeta)42, calcium ionophore A23187, interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta), or DHA supply enhances NPD1 synthesis. NPD1, in turn, upregulates the antiapoptotic proteins of the Bcl-2 family and decreases the expression of proapoptotic Bcl-2 family members. In human neural cells, DHA attenuates Abeta42 secretion, resulting in concomitant formation of NPD1. NPD1 repressed Abeta42-triggered activation of proinflammatory genes and upregulated the antiapoptotic genes encoding Bcl-2, Bcl-xl, and Bfl-1(A1) in human brain cells in culture. Overall, NPD1 signaling regulates brain and retinal cell survival via the induction of antiapoptotic and neuroprotective gene-expression programs that suppress Abeta42-induced neurotoxicity and other forms of cell injury. These in turn support homeostasis during brain and retinal aging, counteract inflammatory signaling, and downregulate events that support the initiation and progression of neurodegenerative disease.
A series of negative clinical trials of disease-modifying agents for Alzheimer's disease has increased pessimism regarding the prospects for important therapeutic advances. But limited efficacy may be attributed in part to the advanced degree of neurodegeneration present at the onset of dementia. To optimize the likelihood of success, it is essential to develop the methodology to allow testing of disease-modifying treatments at an early stage of pathology, when modulation of pathophysiologic mechanisms may yield major clinical benefits.

Although many therapies are used in the management of neuropathic pain (NeP) due to polyneuropathy (PN), few comparison studies exist. We performed a prospective, non-randomized, unblended, efficacy comparison of the serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor venlafaxine, as either monotherapy or adjuvant therapy, with a first-line medication for NeP, gabapentin, in patients with PN-related NeP. VAS pain scores were assessed after 3 and 6 months in intervention groups and in a cohort of patients receiving no pharmacotherapy. In a total of 223 patients, we analyzed pain quantity and quality (visual analogue scale [VAS] score, Brief Pain Inventory [BPI]), quality of life and health status measures [EuroQol 5 Domains, EQ-5D], Medical Outcomes Sleep Study Scale [MOSSS], Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale [HADS] and Short Form 36 Health Survey [SF-36]) after 6 months of therapy. Significant improvements in VAS pain scores occurred for all treatment groups after 6 months. Improvements in aspects of daily life and anxiety were identified in all treatment groups. Our data suggest that monotherapy or adjuvant therapy with venlafaxine is comparable to gabapentin for NeP management. We advocate for head-to-head, randomized, double-blinded studies of current NeP therapies.
Epitopes determining the agonist property of two structurally distinct selective ligands for the human bombesin receptor subtype 3 (BB3), [D-Tyr6,(R)-Apa11,Phe13, Nle14]-bombesin(6-14) (Pep-1) and Ac-Phe-Trp-Ala-His(TauBzl)-Nip-Gly-Arg-NH2 (Pep-2), were mapped through systematic mutagenesis of the main ligand-binding pocket of the receptor. The mutational map for the smaller Pep-2 spanned the entire binding pocket of the BB3 receptor. In contrast, the much fewer mutational hits for the larger Pep-1 were confined to the center of the pocket, i.e., the opposing faces of the extracellular segments of transmembrane (TM)-III, TM-VI, and TM-VII. All the residues, which upon mutation affected Pep-1, were also hits for Pep-2 and included those that were most essential for the function of Pep-2: LeuIII:04 (Leu(123)), TyrVI:16 (Tyr(291)), and ArgVII:06 (Arg(316)). The BB3 receptor was found to signal with 12% ligand-independent activity that was strongly influenced both positively and negatively by several mutations in the binding pocket. The substitutions, which decreased the constitutive signaling, included not only the major mutational hits for the peptide agonists but also mutations more superficially located in the receptor. It is concluded that activation of the BB3 receptor is dependent upon an epitope in the main ligand-binding pocket at the interface between TM-III, TM-VI, and TM-VII that corresponds to the site where, for example, activating metal ion sites have been constructed previously in 7TM receptors.
Prepulse inhibition (PPI) is a measure of sensorimotor gating and an endophenotype of schizophrenia. We have shown previously in rats that estrogen treatment prevents disruption of PPI by the 5-HT(1A)/5-HT(7) receptor agonist 8-hydroxy-2-dipropylaminotetralin (8-OH-DPAT). The aim of the present study was to examine the role of dopamine D(1) and D(2) and serotonin 5-HT(1A), 5-HT(2A), and 5-HT(7) receptors in these effects. Part 1 of this study investigated the ability of estrogen treatment to reverse PPI disruption induced by 8-OH-DPAT or the dopamine D(1)/D(2) receptor agonist apomorphine. Part 2 of this study compared these effects to the ability of various antagonists in reversing the action of 8-OH-DPAT and apomorphine on PPI. Female Sprague-Dawley rats were ovariectomized (OVX), and, where appropriate, they received silastic implants containing either a low (E20) or high dose (E100) of estrogen. Two weeks later, PPI was assessed using automated startle boxes. The disruption of PPI by either treatment with 8-OH-DPAT (0.5 mg/kg) or apomorphine (0.3 mg/kg) was similarly prevented by E100 treatment. 8-OH-DPAT-induced PPI disruption was reversed by pretreatment with the 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonist N-[2-[4-(2-methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl]ethyl]-N-2-pyridinylcyclohexanecarboxamide maleate salt (WAY 100,635; 1 mg/kg) and the typical antipsychotic and dopamine D(2) receptor antagonist haloperidol (0.25 mg/kg), but it was not reversed by pretreatment with the dopamine D(1) receptor antagonist R-(+)-7-chloro-8-hydroxy-3-methyl-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine hydrochloride (SCH 23390; 0.1 mg/kg), the 5-HT(2A/2C) receptor antagonist ketanserin (2 mg/kg), or the 5-HT(7) receptor antagonist SB-269970 (10 mg/kg). Apomorphine-induced disruptions of PPI were reversed by haloperidol and SCH 23390 only. Estrogen may prevent disruptions of PPI induced by both 8-OH-DPAT and apomorphine by an action on dopamine D(2) receptors downstream of 5-HT(1A) receptors.

Axonally initiated action potentials back-propagate into spiny dendrites of central mammalian neurons and thereby regulate plasticity at excitatory synapses on individual spines as well as linear and supralinear integration of synaptic inputs along dendritic branches. Thus, the electrical behaviour of individual dendritic spines and terminal dendritic branches is critical for the integrative function of nerve cells. The actual dynamics of action potentials in spines and terminal branches, however, are not entirely clear, mostly because electrode recording from such small structures is not feasible. Additionally, the available membrane potential imaging techniques are limited in their sensitivity and require substantial signal averaging for the detection of electrical events at the spatial scale of individual spines. We made a critical improvement in the voltage-sensitive dye imaging technique to achieve multisite recordings of backpropagating action potentials from individual dendritic spines at a high frame rate. With this approach, we obtained direct evidence that in layer 5 pyramidal neurons from the visual cortex of juvenile mice, the rapid time course of somatic action potentials is preserved throughout all cellular compartments, including dendritic spines and terminal branches of basal and apical dendrites. The rapid time course of the action potential in spines may be a critical determinant for the precise regulation of spike timing-dependent synaptic plasticity within a narrow time window.
Oxidative stress abnormalities have been proposed to explain the pathogenesis of schizophrenia. The present study examined neopterin and oxidative stress abnormalities in schizophrenia patients before and after treatment. Serum neopterin, total anti-oxidants, nitrites and thiols in antipsychotic-nave schizophrenia patients (n=45) were assessed at baseline before treatment in comparison with healthy controls (n=43). The schizophrenia patients on treatment were followed up for 3months and these parameters were reassessed (n=32). In comparison to healthy controls, schizophrenia patients had significantly higher levels of neopterin and nitrites and significantly lower levels of anti-oxidants before treatment. During follow-up assessments in schizophrenia patients after treatment with antipsychotics, there was a significant decrease in the neopterin levels and significant increase in anti-oxidant levels. Our study observations support increased oxidative stress in schizophrenia that improves with antipsychotic treatment.
There is growing evidence that aberrant transcriptional regulation is one of the key components of the pathophysiology of mood disorders. The repressor element-1 silencing transcription factor (REST) is a negative regulator of genes that contain the repressor element-1 (RE-1) binding site. REST has many target genes, including corticotropin releasing hormone (CRH), brain-derived neurotrophic factor, serotonin 1A receptor, which are suggested to be involved in the pathophysiology of depression and the action of antidepressants. However, a potential role for REST-mediated transcriptional regulation in mood disorders remains unclear. In this study, we examined the mRNA levels of REST and its known and putative target genes, using quantitative real-time PCR in peripheral blood cells of patients with major depressive and bipolar disorders in both a current depressive and a remissive state. We found reduced mRNA expression of REST and increased mRNA expression of CRH, adenylate cyclase 5, and the tumor necrosis factor superfamily, member 12-13 in patients with major depressive disorder in a current depressive state, but not in a remissive state. Altered expression of these mRNAs was not found in patients with bipolar disorder. Our results suggest that the aberrant REST-mediated transcriptional regulation of, at least, CRH, adenylate cyclase 5, and tumor necrosis factor superfamily, member 12-13, might be state-dependent and associated with the pathophysiology of major depression.

Chromatin remodeling such as changes in histone acetylation has been suggested to play an important role in the pathophysiology and treatment of mood disorders. In the present study, we investigated whether the expression of histone deacetylase (HDAC) genes are altered in mood disorder patients. We used quantitative real-time PCR to measure the mRNA levels of 11 HDACs (HDAC1-11) in peripheral white blood cells of major depressive disorder (MDD) and bipolar disorder (BPD) patients during depressive and remissive episodes and in the first-degree relatives of BPD patients. In addition, we investigated the effect of antidepressants and mood stabilizers on the mRNA levels of HDACs using mice. In MDD, the expression of HDAC2 and -5 mRNA was increased in a depressive state, but not in a remissive state, compared to controls. In BPD, the expression of HDAC4 mRNA was increased only in a depressive state, and the expression of HDAC6 and -8 was decreased in both depressive and remissive states compared to controls, whereas the first-degree relatives did not show any significant alteration in expression levels. Animal study showed that the expression of HDAC2 and -5 or HDAC4, -6 and -8 mRNAs in the mouse leukocytes were not affected by chronic treatment with antidepressants or mood stabilizers. Our data suggest that aberrant transcriptional regulation caused by the altered expression of HDACs is associated with the pathophysiology of mood disorders.
The Cued Reinforcement Reaction Time (CRRT) task is a choice reaction time task in which rewards (points) are available if the subject responds quickly enough and are signalled with a certain probability by stimuli. Reaction times (RTs) are faster following stimuli predicting reward with a high probability than with a low probability. This RT difference is sensitive to manipulations and individual differences in the serotonin (5-HT) system, but the CRRT task performance has not yet been examined in patients with depression. We observed that patients performed better on the task than controls, as evidenced by a greater points score, a greater likelihood of reaching their reinforcement threshold and fewer errors. RT variability was reduced in the patients. No group differences in the effect of the conditioned stimuli on RTs were observed. Accounts of these surprising data are discussed, considering possible effects of antidepressant medication or task-dependent differences in selective attention. Regardless of precise mechanism, the results do indicate that depressed patients are not invariably impaired in motivational paradigms and that their RT performance in certain situations can be superior to that of controls.
This 12-week, double-blind, two-part study in 438 adults with bipolar-associated acute mania began with a 3-week period comparing ziprasidone (80-160 mg/day) and placebo with haloperidol (8-30 mg/day) as active reference. Changes from baseline Mania Rating Scale (MRS) scores for ziprasidone and haloperidol were superior to placebo from day 2 (P = 0.001) to week 3 (P &lt; 0.001); change from baseline at week 3 was greater for haloperidol than ziprasidone (P &lt;or= 0.001). At week 3, the response rate (&gt;or=50% decrease from baseline MRS score) was 36.9, 54.7 and 20.5% for ziprasidone, haloperidol and placebo, respectively (P &lt;or= 0.05, active treatments versus placebo and ziprasidone versus haloperidol). In the 9-week extension phase, ziprasidone replaced placebo to examine tolerability. Maintenance of improvement was evaluated for ziprasidone (40-160 mg/day) or haloperidol (4-30 mg/day). Responses were maintained through the last visit for 88.1% receiving ziprasidone and 96.3% receiving haloperidol. More patients receiving haloperidol than ziprasidone discontinued treatment during weeks 4-12 (21.1% versus 9.6%) and had significantly higher rates of movement disorders. Mean doses of ziprasidone and haloperidol for the first 3-week and 9-week extension were 116.2 mg/day and 121.4 mg/day and 16.0 mg/day and 16.1 mg/day, respectively. Ziprasidone was shown to be effective monotherapy for acute treatment of bipolar mania. Although haloperidol showed greater efficacy, ziprasidone showed a superior tolerability profile.



Social neuroscience is a relatively new multidisciplinary field which merges the more reductionistic approaches of neuroscience with the more molar perspectives of social psychology. In this article we report the joint efforts of the authors to develop an effective team-taught course in social neuroscience at the undergraduate level. We review our experiences in developing this course, detail many of the sources currently available for social neuroscience, and provide the results of a detailed student survey of the course. In addition to providing a foundation for others interested in developing a social neuroscience course, it is our opinion that many of the experiences we describe here are applicable to any novel multidisciplinary team teaching endeavor, especially those merging psychological disciplines with neuroscience.
A survey was presented to members of the Faculty for Undergraduate Neuroscience (FUN) to get a better idea of how neuroscience research and education is being delivered at the undergraduate level. A total of 155 individuals completed the survey, with 118 coming from faculty at traditional PUIs (primarily undergraduate institutions) and 37 from faculty at doctoral-granting institutions. The survey covered a number of different areas; including types of neuroscience programs, number of neuroscience faculty at the institution, average course loads, average number of research students, and external support for research. Results from this survey indicate that the structure of neuroscience programs vary among institutions. Course loads for faculty at PUIs averaged four to six courses per year and the total number of undergraduate students supervised in research per faculty member averaged five ( 2.8) students per year. Faculty show high success with external funding, both at PUIs and research universities. Faculty ranked FUN programs devoted to supporting both students and faculty development highly. The results of this survey provide data that can be used to determine future directions and priorities for FUN.
In this paper, we describe and assess a laboratory module that we introduced into an intermediate-level undergraduate course in Neuroscience and Behavior (NEUR201) in order to expose students to the new and rapidly developing neurogenomic and bioinformatics approaches to neuroscience research. The laboratory accompanies a topics-based, highly process-oriented course that explores research methodologies and integrative approaches to particular topics in the field. The laboratory comprises multi-week modules that expand upon the topics being covered in class. In the class for which this module was developed, a key topic under discussion is the role played by the nervous system in aging and/or lifespan. This laboratory module focuses on the model organism, Caenorhabditis elegans (C. elegans), which has been studied extensively. There is a large and ongoing literature elucidating a number of genes involved in determining or modulating lifespan in C. elegans. Students choose a candidate gerontogene expressed in neurons in C. elegans from a provided list for which we have mutant strains. Students use available databases to become experts on their candidate gene and design, carry out and analyze a behavioral experiment. In addition, students use available bioinformatics and genomic tools to conduct a protein sequence phylogenetic analysis of their candidate protein across at least 10 different taxa of animals. The laboratory module thus focuses on the integration of behavioral, genetic and bioinformatics approaches, as well as on the evolutionary considerations of the role played by gerontogenes in different organisms.
Stories register in human memory in special ways, and stories about neurological cases can entertain and move a reader while simultaneously being an important part of any neuroscience curriculum. Here we describe a course taught in the context of the liberal arts curriculum of Baldwin-Wallace College. Students from a variety of disciplines learned basic neuroanatomy, neurophysiology and neurochemistry and then used this information to help them understand published neurological case studies, which were analyzed for their literary as well as scientific qualities. Later in the course, students were paired with a person with a neurological disorder and they investigated their cases in some depth. The capstone experience was a monograph that aimed to be both good science and good story telling. Narratives and Neurons was team taught by faculty from the Neuroscience and English departments. However, the case studies were shaped and improved by all the class participants using writing workshop methods common to creative writing classes. Assessments of this course were very favorable, suggesting that students find that the work enhanced their resourcefulness and challenged their abilities to critically evaluate and problem solve. Some of the cases have found their way into the peer-reviewed literature. Moreover, the interaction between students and individuals with neurological disorders provided a diversity of experiences that enriched the lives of all the participants.
David Marr famously proposed three levels of analysis (implementational, algorithmic, and computational) for understanding information processing systems such as the brain. While two of these levels are commonly taught in neuroscience courses (the implementational level through neurophysiology and the computational level through systems/cognitive neuroscience), the algorithmic level is typically neglected. This leaves an explanatory gap in students' understanding of how, for example, the flow of sodium ions enables cognition. Neural networks bridge these two levels by demonstrating how collections of interacting neuron-like units can give rise to more overtly cognitive phenomena. The demonstrations in this paper are intended to facilitate instructors' introduction and exploration of how neurons &quot;process information.&quot;
Laboratory activities serve several important functions in undergraduate science education. For neuroscience majors, an important and sometimes underemphasized tool is the use of behavioral observations to help inform us about the consequences of changes that are occurring on a neuronal level. To help address this concern, the following laboratory exercise is presented. The current project tested the prediction that the most dominant fish in a tank of cichlids will have gained the most benefits of its position resulting in the greatest growth and hence, become the largest fish. More specifically: (1) is there evidence that a social hierarchy exists among the fish in our tank based on the number of aggressive acts among the four largest fish; (2) if so, does the apparent rank correspond to the size of the fish as predicted by previous studies? Focal sampling and behavior sampling of aggressive acts between fish were utilized in the data collection. Collectively, the data suggest a social dominance hierarchy may be in place with the following rank order from highest to lowest: Fish A &gt; Fish B &gt; Fish D &gt; Fish C. While the largest (Fish A) seems to be at the top, Fish C ended up being ranked lower than Fish D despite the fact that Fish C is larger. Overall, the project was considered a success by the instructor and students. The students offered several suggestions that could improve future versions of this type of project, in particular concerning the process of constructing a poster about the project. The implications of the data and student learning outcomes are discussed.

Magnetic field inhomogeneities like eddy current-related gradient fields cause geometric distortions in echo-planar imaging (EPI). This in particular affects diffusion-weighted imaging where these distortions vary with the direction of the diffusion weighting and hamper the accurate determination of diffusion parameters. The double-spin-echo preparation often used aims to reduce the cumulative eddy current effect by adjusting the diffusion-weighting gradient pulse durations to the time constant of the dominant eddy current contribution. However, eddy currents with a variety of time constants may be present and cause residual distortions. Here, a modification is proposed where the two bipolar gradient pairs of the preparation are adjusted independently to different time constants. At the expense of a slightly prolonged echo time, residual geometric distortions and correspondingly increased values of the diffusion anisotropy can be reduced as is demonstrated in phantoms and the human brain. Thus, it may help to improve the reliability of diffusion-weighted EPI.
Blood oxygenation level dependent (BOLD) response related to interictal activity was evaluated in a patient with post-traumatic focal epilepsy at repeated continuous electroencephalogram (EEG)-functional magnetic resonance imaging examinations. Lateralized interictal EEG activity induced a main cluster of activation co-localized with the anatomical lesion. Spreading of EEG interictal activity to both frontal lobes evoked bilateral clusters of activation indicating that topography of BOLD response might depend on the spatial distribution of epileptiform activity.


Previous studies have demonstrated that the pituitary is a main target for inorganic mercury (I-Hg) deposition and accumulation within the brain. My recent study of the US population (1999-2006) has uncovered a significant, inverse relationship between chronic mercury exposure and levels of luteinizing hormone (LH). This association with LH signifies more than its presumed role as bioindicator for pituitary neurosecretion and function. LH is the only hormone with a rare and well characterized, high affinity binding site for mercury. On its catalytic beta subunit, LH has the structure to preferentially bind inorganic mercury almost irreversibly, and, by that manner, accumulate the neurotoxic element. Thus, it is likely that LH is an early and significant target of chronic mercury exposure. Moreover, due to the role of LH in immune-modulation and neurogenesis, I present LH as a central candidate to elucidate a causal mechanism for chronic mercury exposure and associated disease.
Prior work suggests that receiving feedback that one's response was correct or incorrect (right/wrong feedback) does not help learners, as compared to not receiving any feedback at all (Pashler, Cepeda, Wixted, &amp; Rohrer, 2005). In three experiments we examined the generality of this conclusion. Right/wrong feedback did not aid error correction, regardless of whether participants learned facts embedded in prose (Experiment 1) or translations of foreign vocabulary (Experiment 2). While right/wrong feedback did not improve the overall retention of correct answers (Experiments 1 and 2), it facilitated retention of low-confidence correct answers (Experiment 3). Reviewing the original materials was very useful to learners, but this benefit was similar after receiving either right/wrong feedback or no feedback (Experiments 1 and 2). Overall, right/wrong feedback conveys some information to the learner, but is not nearly as useful as being told the correct answer or having the chance to review the to-be-learned materials.
The alpha-actinins are an important family of actin-binding proteins with the ability to cross-link actin filaments when in dimer form. Members of the alpha-actinin family share a domain topology composed of highly conserved actin-binding and EF-hand domains separated by a rod domain composed of spectrin-like repeats. Functional diversity within this family has arisen through exon duplication and the formation of alternate splice isoforms as well as gene duplications during the evolution of vertebrates. In addition to the known functional domains, alpha-actinins also contain a consensus PDZ-binding site. The completed genome sequence of over 32 invertebrate species has allowed the analysis of gene structure and exon-gene duplication over a diverse range of phyla. Our analysis shows that relative to early branching metazoans, there has been considerable intron loss especially in arthropods with few cases of intron gains. The C-terminal PDZ-binding site is conserved in nearly all invertebrates but is missing in some nematodes and platyhelminths. Alternative splicing in the actin-binding domain is conserved in chordates, arthropods, and some nematodes and platyhelminths. In contrast, alternative splicing of the EF-hand domain is only observed in chordates. Finally, given the prevalence of exon duplications seen in the actin-binding domain, this may act as a significant mechanism in the modification of actin-binding properties.
Currently, there is no reliable system for regulated gene expression and regulated gene knockdown in cells with finite lifespan. In this manuscript, we describe a vector system, consisting of a retrovirus for the delivery of rtTA, and a lentivirus for the delivery of either a transgene or a miR-shRNA for the modification of primary cells. Primary rat pulmonary microvascular endothelial cells (PMVEC) modified by these vectors for the inducible expression of Gaussia luciferase or DsRed Express demonstrated greater than 100-fold induction of the transgene expression with doxycycline. The system works reliably in both sequential and simultaneous infection modes, with about 95% of the sells selected with two antibiotics being inducible in each mode. The lentiviral vector for gene knockdown allows for the direct cloning of shRNA oligos using alpha-complementation, and for the monitoring of induction of RNA interference with fluorescent reporter, mCherry. The gene knockdown vector was validated by knocking down beta-actin expression in PMVECs, with two of the four constructs showing 59 and 75% knockdown, respectively, compared to uninduced controls. The vectors described here were successfully used for the modification of various primary and established cell lines for regulated gene expression and regulated knockdown.
Increased oxidative stress is a widely accepted factor in the development and progression of Alzheimer's disease. Here, we introduce chitosan, an antioxidant oligosaccharide, as a protective agent against H(2)O(2)/FeSO(4)-induced cell death in the NT2 neural cell line. Chitosan not only protects the neurons against cell death, as measured by MTT and caspase-3 activity, but also decreases amyloid beta formation. NT2 neurons can be used to elucidate the relationship between oxidative stress and Abeta formation. We induced Abeta formation through oxidative stress in NT2 neurons and studied the effect of chitosan. We demonstrate that chitosan can be neuroprotective by suppressing Abeta formation. We further show that chitosan exerts its protective effect by up-regulation of HO-1, gamma-GCS, Hsp-70, and Nrf2, while it inhibits activation of caspase-3 and NF-kappaB. Chitosan or chitosan derivatives have potential value as neuroprotective agents, particularly with regard to oxidative stress.
Lysine-specific demethylase 1 (LSD1) functions as a transcriptional coregulator by modulating histone methylation. Its role in neural stem cells has not been studied. We show here for the first time that LSD1 serves as a key regulator of neural stem cell proliferation. Inhibition of LSD1 activity or knockdown of LSD1 expression led to dramatically reduced neural stem cell proliferation. LSD1 is recruited by nuclear receptor TLX, an essential neural stem cell regulator, to the promoters of TLX target genes to repress the expression of these genes, which are known regulators of cell proliferation. The importance of LSD1 function in neural stem cells was further supported by the observation that intracranial viral transduction of the LSD1 small interfering RNA (siRNA) or intraperitoneal injection of the LSD1 inhibitors pargyline and tranylcypromine led to dramatically reduced neural progenitor proliferation in the hippocampal dentate gyri of wild-type adult mouse brains. However, knockout of TLX expression abolished the inhibitory effect of pargyline and tranylcypromine on neural progenitor proliferation, suggesting that TLX is critical for the LSD1 inhibitor effect. These findings revealed a novel role for LSD1 in neural stem cell proliferation and uncovered a mechanism for neural stem cell proliferation through recruitment of LSD1 to modulate TLX activity.
Uridines in the wobble position of tRNA are almost invariably modified. Modifications can increase the efficiency of codon reading, but they also prevent mistranslation by limiting wobbling. In mammals, several tRNAs have 5-methoxycarbonylmethyluridine (mcm5U) or derivatives thereof in the wobble position. Through analysis of tRNA from Alkbh8-/- mice, we show here that ALKBH8 is a tRNA methyltransferase required for the final step in the biogenesis of mcm5U. We also demonstrate that the interaction of ALKBH8 with a small accessory protein, TRM112, is required to form a functional tRNA methyltransferase. Furthermore, prior ALKBH8-mediated methylation is a prerequisite for the thiolation and 2'-O-ribose methylation that form 5-methoxycarbonylmethyl-2-thiouridine (mcm5s2U) and 5-methoxycarbonylmethyl-2'-O-methyluridine (mcm5Um), respectively. Despite the complete loss of all of these uridine modifications, Alkbh8-/- mice appear normal. However, the selenocysteine-specific tRNA (tRNASec) is aberrantly modified in the Alkbh8-/- mice, and for the selenoprotein Gpx1, we indeed observed reduced recoding of the UGA stop codon to selenocysteine.
We report that knockdown of the alpha1 tubulin isoform Tuba1a, but not the highly related Tuba1b, dramatically impedes nervous system formation during development and RGC axon regeneration following optic nerve injury in adults. Within the tuba1a promoter, a G/C-rich element was identified that is necessary for tuba1a induction during RGC differentiation and optic axon regeneration. KLF6a and 7a, which we previously reported are essential for optic axon regeneration (Veldman et al., 2007), bind this G/C-rich element and transactivate the tuba1a promoter. In vivo knockdown of KLF6a and 7a attenuate regeneration-dependent activation of the endogenous tuba1a and p27 genes. These results suggest tuba1a expression is necessary for CNS development and regeneration and that KLF6a and 7a mediate their effects, at least in part, via transcriptional control of tuba1a promoter activity.

Retinoid acid, the bioactive metabolite of vitamin A, is a potent signaling molecule in the brains of growing and adult animals, regulates numerous gene products, and modulates neurogenesis, neuronal survival and synaptic plasticity. Vitamin A deficiency (VAD) is a global health problem, yet our knowledge of its effects on behavior and learning is still emerging. Here we review studies that have implicated retinoids in learning and memory deficits of post-embryonic and adult rodent and songbird models. Dietary vitamin A supplementation improves learning and memory in VAD rodents and can ameliorate cognitive declines associated with normal aging. Songbird studies examine the effects of retinoid signaling on vocal/auditory learning and are uniquely suited to study the behavioral effects of VAD because the neural circuitry of the song system is discrete and well understood. Similar to human speech acquisition, avian vocal learning proceeds in well-defined stages of template acquisition, rendition and maturation. Local blockade of retinoic acid production in the brain or excess dietary retinoic acid results in the failure of song maturation, yet does not affect prior song acquisition. Together these results yield significant insights into the role of vitamin A in maintaining neuronal plasticity and cognitive function in adulthood.
Neuroimmunology was once referred to in terms of its pathological connotation only and was generally understood as covering the deleterious involvement of the immune system in various diseases and disorders of the central nervous system (CNS). However, our conception of the function of the immune system in the structure, function, and plasticity of the CNS has undergone a sea change after relevant discoveries over the past two decades, and continues to be challenged by more recent studies of neurodevelopment and cognition. This review summarizes the recent advances in understanding of immune-system participation in the development and functioning of the CNS under physiological conditions. Considering as an example Rett syndrome a devastating neurodevelopmental disease, we offer a hypothesis that might help to explain the part played by immune cells in its etiology, and hence suggests that the immune system might be a feasible therapeutic target for alleviation of some of the symptoms of this and other autism spectrum disorders.
For many experiments in the study of the peripheral nervous system, it would be useful to genetically manipulate primary sensory neurons. We have compared vectors based on adeno-associated virus (AAV) serotypes 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 8, and lentivirus (LV), all expressing green fluorescent protein (GFP), for efficiency of transduction of sensory neurons, expression level, cellular tropism, and persistence of transgene expression following direct injection into the dorsal root ganglia (DRG), using histological quantification and qPCR. Two weeks after injection, AAV1, AAV5, and AAV6 had transduced the most neurons. The time course of GFP expression from these three vectors was studied from 1 to 12 weeks after injection. AAV5 was the most effective serotype overall, followed by AAV1. Both these serotypes showed increasing neuronal transduction rates at later time points, with some injections of AAV5 yielding over 90% of DRG neurons GFP(+) at 12 weeks. AAV6 performed well initially, but transduction rates declined dramatically between 4 and 12 weeks. AAV1 and AAV5 both transduced large-diameter neurons, IB4(+) neurons, and CGRP(+) neurons. In conclusion, AAV5 is a highly effective gene therapy vector for primary sensory neurons following direct injection into the DRG.
Changes in gait parameters induced by the concomitant performance of one of two cognitive tasks activating working memory and spatial attention, was examined in healthy young adults (YA) and older adults (OA). There was a main effect of task condition on gait-speed (p = .02), stride-length (p &lt; .001) and double-support time (p = .04) independent of the group. There were no significant differences between working memory and spatial attention associated gait changes. Working-memory and spatial-attention dual-tasking led to a decrease in gait-speed (p = .09 and 0.01) and stride-length (p = .04 and 0.01) and increase in double-support time (p = .01 and 0.03) in YA and decrease in stride-length (p = .04 and 0.01) alone in OA. Cognitive task associated changes in gait may be a function of limited attentional resources irrespective of the type of cognitive task.
Brain inflammation is a major factor in epilepsy, but the impact of specific inflammatory mediators on neuronal excitability is incompletely understood. Using models of acute and chronic seizures in C57BL/6 mice, we discovered a proconvulsant pathway involving high-mobility group box-1 (HMGB1) release from neurons and glia and its interaction with Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4), a key receptor of innate immunity. Antagonists of HMGB1 and TLR4 retard seizure precipitation and decrease acute and chronic seizure recurrence. TLR4-defective C3H/HeJ mice are resistant to kainate-induced seizures. The proconvulsant effects of HMGB1, like those of interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta), are partly mediated by ifenprodil-sensitive N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors. Increased expression of HMGB1 and TLR4 in human epileptogenic tissue, like that observed in the mouse model of chronic seizures, suggests a role for the HMGB1-TLR4 axis in human epilepsy. Thus, HMGB1-TLR4 signaling may contribute to generating and perpetuating seizures in humans and might be targeted to attain anticonvulsant effects in epilepsies that are currently resistant to drugs.
Anxiety disorders such as post-traumatic stress are characterized by an impaired ability to learn that cues previously associated with danger no longer represent a threat. However, the mechanisms underlying fear extinction remain unclear. We found that fear extinction in rats was associated with increased levels of synaptic inhibition in fear output neurons of the central amygdala (CEA). This increased inhibition resulted from a potentiation of fear input synapses to GABAergic intercalated amygdala neurons that project to the CEA. Enhancement of inputs to intercalated cells required prefrontal activity during extinction training and involved an increased transmitter release probability coupled to an altered expression profile of ionotropic glutamate receptors. Overall, our results suggest that intercalated cells constitute a promising target for pharmacological treatment of anxiety disorders.
Establishing the circuitry underlying attentional and oculomotor control is a long-standing goal of systems neuroscience. The macaque lateral intraparietal area (LIP) has been implicated in both processes, but numerous studies have produced contradictory findings. Anatomically, LIP consists of a dorsal and ventral subdivision, but the functional importance of this division remains unclear. We injected muscimol, a GABA(A) agonist, and manganese, a magnetic resonance imaging lucent paramagnetic ion, into different portions of LIP, examined the effects of the resulting reversible inactivation on saccade planning and attention, and visualized each injection using anatomical magnetic resonance imaging. We found that dorsal LIP (LIPd) is primarily involved in oculomotor planning, whereas ventral LIP (LIPv) contributes to both attentional and oculomotor processes. Additional testing revealed that the two functions were dissociable, even in LIPv. Using our technique, we found a clear structure-function relationship that distinguishes LIPv from LIPd and found dissociable circuits for attention and eye movements in the posterior parietal cortex.
Osmoregulated vasopressin release is facilitated during the late sleep period (LSP) to prevent dehydration and enuresis. Previous work has shown that clock neurons in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) have low firing rates during the LSP, but it is not known how this reduced activity enhances vasopressin release. We found that synaptic excitation of rat supraoptic nucleus neurons by osmosensory afferents is facilitated during the LSP. Stimulation of the SCN at this time inhibited excitatory synaptic currents induced in supraoptic neurons by activation of osmosensory afferents. This effect was associated with an increased rate of synaptic failures and occurred without changes in frequency facilitation, quantal size or in the ratio of postsynaptic responses mediated by AMPA and NMDA receptors. We conclude that clock neurons mediate an activity-dependent presynaptic silencing of osmosensory afferent synapses onto vasopressin neurons and that osmoregulatory gain is enhanced by removal of this effect during late sleep.
Neurodegenerative diseases are commonly associated with the accumulation of intracellular or extracellular protein aggregates. Recent studies suggest that these aggregates are capable of crossing cellular membranes and can directly contribute to the propagation of neurodegenerative disease pathogenesis. We propose that, once initiated, neuropathological changes might spread in a 'prion-like' manner and that disease progression is associated with the intercellular transfer of pathogenic proteins. The transfer of naked infectious particles between cells could therefore be a target for new disease-modifying therapies.
Synaptic plasticity is thought to underlie learning and memory, but the complexity of the interactions between the ion channels, enzymes and genes that are involved in synaptic plasticity impedes a deep understanding of this phenomenon. Computer modelling has been used to investigate the information processing that is performed by the signalling pathways involved in synaptic plasticity in principal neurons of the hippocampus, striatum and cerebellum. In the past few years, new software developments that combine computational neuroscience techniques with systems biology techniques have allowed large-scale, kinetic models of the molecular mechanisms underlying long-term potentiation and long-term depression. We highlight important advancements produced by these quantitative modelling efforts and introduce promising approaches that use advancements in live-cell imaging.
In the past 20 years, an extra layer of information processing, in addition to that provided by neurons, has been proposed for the CNS. Neuronally evoked increases of the intracellular calcium concentration in astrocytes have been suggested to trigger exocytotic release of the 'gliotransmitters' glutamate, ATP and D-serine. These are proposed to modulate neuronal excitability and transmitter release, and to have a role in diseases as diverse as stroke, epilepsy, schizophrenia, Alzheimer's disease and HIV infection. However, there is intense controversy about whether astrocytes can exocytose transmitters in vivo. Resolving this issue would considerably advance our understanding of brain function.
The parieto-frontal cortical circuit that is active during action observation is the circuit with mirror properties that has been most extensively studied. Yet, there remains controversy on its role in social cognition and its contribution to understanding the actions and intentions of other individuals. Recent studies in monkeys and humans have shed light on what the parieto-frontal cortical circuit encodes and its possible functional relevance for cognition. We conclude that, although there are several mechanisms through which one can understand the behaviour of other individuals, the parieto-frontal mechanism is the only one that allows an individual to understand the action of others 'from the inside' and gives the observer a first-person grasp of the motor goals and intentions of other individuals.
The application of neuroimaging methods to product marketing - neuromarketing - has recently gained considerable popularity. We propose that there are two main reasons for this trend. First, the possibility that neuroimaging will become cheaper and faster than other marketing methods; and second, the hope that neuroimaging will provide marketers with information that is not obtainable through conventional marketing methods. Although neuroimaging is unlikely to be cheaper than other tools in the near future, there is growing evidence that it may provide hidden information about the consumer experience. The most promising application of neuroimaging methods to marketing may come before a product is even released - when it is just an idea being developed.
The zebra finch is an important model organism in several fields with unique relevance to human neuroscience. Like other songbirds, the zebra finch communicates through learned vocalizations, an ability otherwise documented only in humans and a few other animals and lacking in the chicken-the only bird with a sequenced genome until now. Here we present a structural, functional and comparative analysis of the genome sequence of the zebra finch (Taeniopygia guttata), which is a songbird belonging to the large avian order Passeriformes. We find that the overall structures of the genomes are similar in zebra finch and chicken, but they differ in many intrachromosomal rearrangements, lineage-specific gene family expansions, the number of long-terminal-repeat-based retrotransposons, and mechanisms of sex chromosome dosage compensation. We show that song behaviour engages gene regulatory networks in the zebra finch brain, altering the expression of long non-coding RNAs, microRNAs, transcription factors and their targets. We also show evidence for rapid molecular evolution in the songbird lineage of genes that are regulated during song experience. These results indicate an active involvement of the genome in neural processes underlying vocal communication and identify potential genetic substrates for the evolution and regulation of this behaviour.
The association of R219K and V825I polymorphisms of ABCA1 gene with cerebral infarction has been rarely reported. Here we wish to address this issue. A total of 476 subjects from Chinese Han ethnic population were investigated, including 152 control individuals and 324 patients with cerebral infarction. Genotyping of R219K and V825I were performed by PCR-RFLP analysis. Data were analyzed using a statistical package. The R219K genotype frequency distributions were significantly different between patients with atherothrombotic cerebral infarction (ACI) and control individuals, with fewer KK genotypes and more RR genotypes in ACI patients (chi(2)=9.89, P&lt;0.01). The K allele is less frequent among ACI patients than in controls (chi(2)=9.16, P&lt;0.005). A significant association of KK with decreased ACI risk was exhibited, especially in male patients, aged patients and individuals with hypertension. These results indicate that the K allele of R219K polymorphism is an independent protective factor against ACI. In addition, though there is no association of V825I with ACI, this polymorphism may have certain synergistic effect with hypertension in susceptibility to ACI.
Polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA) of the omega-3 series and omega-6 series modulate neurite outgrowth in immature neurones. However, it has not been determined if their neurotrophic effects persist in adult and aged tissue. We prepared cultures of primary sensory neurones from male and female rat dorsal root ganglia (DRG), isolated at different ages: post-natal day 3 (P3) and day 9 (P9), adult (2-4 months) and aged (18-20 months). Cultures were incubated with the omega-6 PUFA arachidonic acid (AA) and the omega-3 PUFA eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), at 0.8, 4, 8 and 40muM. PUFA increased neurite outgrowth throughout the developmental stages studied. The effects of omega-3 PUFA, in particular DHA, were still prominent in aged tissue. The amplitude of the effects was comparable to that of nerve growth factor (NGF; 50ng/ml) and all-trans-retinoic acid (ATRA; 0.1muM). The effects of PUFA were similar in cells positive or negative for the N52 neurofilament marker. Our results show that omega-3 PUFA have a marked neurite-promoting potential in neurones from adult and aged animals.
Recent studies have shown that circadian clock genes are expressed in various peripheral tissues, raising the possibility that multiple clocks regulate circadian physiology. To study clock gene expression in the rhesus macaque pituitary gland we used gene microarray data and found that the pituitary glands of young and old adult males express several components of the circadian clock (Per1, Per2, Cry1, Bmal1, Clock, Rev-erbalpha and Csnk1varepsilon). Semi-quantitative reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (sqRT-PCR) confirmed the presence of these core-clock genes and detected significant age-related differences in the expression of Per2. sqRT-PCR also showed differential expression of core-clock genes at two opposing time-points over the 24-h day, with greater expression of Per2 and Bmal1 (P&lt;0.05) at 1300h as compared to 0100h. Immunohistochemistry revealed rhythmic expression of REV-ERBalpha in the pituitary glands of female macaques. These data provide evidence that the rhesus macaque pituitary gland expresses core-clock genes and their associated protein products in a 24-h rhythmic pattern, and that their expression is moderately impacted by aging processes.
l-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine methyl ester hydrochloride (l-DOPA) is the gold standard for symptomatic treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD), but long-term therapy is associated with the emergence of abnormal involuntary movements (AIMS) known as l-DOPA-induced dyskinesias (LID). The molecular changes underlying LID are not completely understood. Using the 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rat model of PD, we showed that l-DOPA elicits profound alterations in the activity of three LID molecular markers, namely DeltaFosB, dopamine, cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein of 32 kDa (DARPP-32) and extracellular signal-regulated kinases 1 and 2 (ERK1/2), as well as in phosphorylation levels of the cytoskeletal-associated protein tau. These modifications are triggered by protein kinase A (PKA) activation and intermittent stimulation of dopamine receptors as they are totally prevented by intrastriatal injections of Rp-cAMPS, a PKA inhibitor, or by continuous administration of l-DOPA via subcutaneous mini-pump. Importantly, Rp-cAMPS does not modulate the positive effect of l-DOPA on locomotor deficits and significantly attenuates the emergence of AIMS in 6-hydroxydopamine hydrobromide-lesioned rats. Even if decreased PKA signalling in the striatum may represent a clinical challenge, these data provide novel evidence that PKA activation, through modification of striatal signalling and alterations of cytoskeletal constituents, plays a key role in the manifestation of LID.
Inflammation induced by hypoxia-ischemia (HI) contributes to the development of injury in the newborn brain. In this study, we investigated the role of galectin-3, a novel inflammatory mediator, in the inflammatory response and development of brain injury in a mouse model for neonatal HI. Galectin-3 gene and protein expression was increased after injury and galectin-3 was located in activated microglia/macrophages. Galectin-3-deficient mice (gal3-/-) were protected from injury particularly in hippocampus and striatum. Microglia accumulation was increased in the gal3-/- mice but accompanied by decreased levels of total matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-9 and nitrotyrosine. The protection and increase in microglial infiltration was more pronounced in male gal3-/- mice. Trophic factors and apoptotic markers did not significantly differ between groups. In conclusion, galectin-3 contributes to neonatal HI injury particularly in male mice. Our results indicate that galectin-3 exerts its effect by modulating the inflammatory response.
Ubiquitin-C-terminal hydrolase L1 (UCH-L1) is a de-ubiquitinating enzyme expressed in the brain and reproductive tissues as well as certain cancers. The hydrolase activity of UCH-L1 has been implicated in Alzheimer's disease and cancer invasion; therefore, it may represent a therapeutic target for these diseases. The present study was undertaken to identify novel chemical modulators for the hydrolase activity of UCH-L1. To identify chemicals that bind to the active site of UCH-L1, we carried out in silico structure-based drug screening using human UCH-L1 crystal structure data (PDB ID: 2ETL) and virtual compound libraries containing 26,891 and 304,205 compounds. Among the compounds with the highest binding scores, we identified one that potentiates the hydrolase activity of UCH-L1, and six that inhibit the activity in enzymatic assays. These compounds may be useful for research on UCH-L1 function, and could lead to candidate therapeutics for UCH-L1-associated diseases.
Apoptosis-associated tyrosine kinase (AATYK) is up-regulated by phosphorylation in cultured cerebellar granule neurons (CGN) undergoing apoptosis upon switch to low KCl-containing medium. However, the underlying signaling pathways remain to be fully characterized. When CGN at culture day 7 were switched from 25 mM KCl (K25) to 5 mM (K5) medium, AATYK band migration on SDS-PAGE shifted to a more slowly migrating position expected for the hyperphosphorylated protein. The apoptosis-inducing agent C(2)-ceramide also caused a mobility shift of the AATYK protein. Exposing CGN (K25) to L-type voltage-dependent Ca(2+) channel antagonists shifted the AATYK band to the K5-induced position, while the Ca(2+) channel activator FPL-64176 had the contrary effect. FK-506, a calcineurin inhibitor caused AATYK hyperphosphorylation under high KCl conditions. CGN death in K5 medium is linked to inhibition of the PI 3-kinase/Akt survival pathway and concomitant activation of the pro-apoptotic downstream target glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3). GSK-3 inhibitors blocked the K5-induced mobility shift of AATYK. Moreover, CGN cultured from AATYK-deficient mice remained sensitive to death in K5 medium. Thus, AATYK activation may not be a physiologically relevant principal regulatory target of the GSK-3 death pathway in KCl-deprived CGN.




Episodic retrieval is supported by multiple forms of cognitive control that depend on prefrontal cortex. However, within prefrontal cortex, the regional specificity for different control processes is still largely underspecified. Here we used fMRI to investigate the processes involved in part-list cueing, a phenomenon entailing the reduction of memory performance when some of the &quot;to-be-remembered items&quot; are presented during retrieval. Retrieval inhibition and strategy disruption have been proposed as possible underlying causes of this surprising effect. Critically, different encoding conditions can dissociate these two hypotheses, as this is thought to have a different impact on strategy-related versus inhibition-related processes. Accordingly, we compared part-list versus no part-list retrieval conditions, following high versus low associative encoding conditions. This revealed activation of the left frontopolar and right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex in conditions of part-list cueing retrieval, but only following low associative encoding. These results are consistent with the inhibitory or interference resolution accounts of part-list cueing, suggesting a critical role of between-items competition and high monitoring demands at retrieval. In addition, we also examined brain activation during the encoding phase, specifying further possible anatomo-functional links between encoding and retrieval processes. The results suggest that different encoding conditions induce distinct patterns of activation at retrieval, corroborating the idea that they promote the adoption of different retrieval strategies. The implications of the results are discussed in relation to the cognitive mechanisms of inhibition, interference resolution, and encoding/retrieval strategies for episodic memory.
This study used multi-channel electroencephalography (EEG) to investigate cortical correlates of response-outcome contingency appraisal as indexed by the postimperative negative variation (PINV) during instrumental learning. PINV data were subjected to standardized low resolution brain electromagnetic tomography (sLORETA) for source localization. Forty-six healthy adult persons underwent a forewarned S1-S2 paradigm where response-outcome contingencies varied in three consecutive conditions. Initially subjects could control aversive stimulation by a correct behavioral response followed by loss of control and subsequent restitution of control. Throughout the experiment, reaction times, errors, ratings of controllability, arousal, emotional valence and helplessness were assessed. Topographical EEG analyses showed that in particular frontal PINV magnitudes covaried with the experimental manipulation. Loss of control induced extensive response-outcome uncertainty accompanied by a fronto-central PINV maximum. sLORETA functional analyses of the PINV revealed that dependent on the experimental conditions frontal, temporal and parietal areas seem to be related to PINV formation. In particular during loss of control, between-conditions sLORETA comparisons found Brodmann Area 24 in the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) to be associated with PINV generation, which was confirmed by correlational analyses. These results provide further evidence for the role of the ACC in detecting response conflict and its involvement in the generation of the PINV.
It has been proposed that schizophrenia results partly from altered brain connectivity. The anterior cingulate cortex in particular has been demonstrated to be affected in schizophrenia, with studies reporting reduced volume, altered neuronal arrangement, decreased anisotropy in diffusion tensor images, and hypometabolism. We used a 3T Siemens scanner to acquire structural and diffusion tensor imaging in age-and sex-matched groups of 41 adults with chronic schizophrenia, 6 adults with recent-onset schizophrenia, and 38 healthy control subjects. We manually traced the anterior and posterior cingulate gyri on all subjects and then compared the volume and anisotropy across groups for the left and right anterior and posterior cingulate gyri. The anterior cingulate gyrus was divided axially into six equal segments, and the posterior cingulate gyrus into two segments. Volume was calculated for the anterior and posterior gyri, and average anisotropy was then calculated for each individual segment, looking separately at gray and white matter. We found decreased overall relative left and right gray matter volume in the anterior cingulate gyrus in persons with schizophrenia compared with healthy controls. Additionally, in both gray and white matter of the cingulate, we found that recent-onset patients had the highest anisotropy, chronic patients had the lowest, and controls were intermediate. These results provide additional evidence for the presence of both white and gray matter abnormalities in the cingulate gyrus, which has been implicated in schizophrenia.
Activation of the amygdala and the fusiform face area (FFA) are consistent findings in imaging studies on emotional face processing. There is evidence that these activations occur even when emotional faces are unattended; however, it was also shown that amygdala and FFA activation were modulated by the attentional resources allocated to these stimuli. Attentional resources might thereby not only depend on task demands but also on varying degrees of covert attention processes induced by the task. To address this issue we examined the isolated effect of covert shifts of spatial attention on emotional face processing using functional magnetic resonance imaging during a modified spatial cueing paradigm. Directional spatial and neutral cues were presented superimposed on neutral, happy, sad and fearful faces. Subjects performed a target detection task, while fixation was controlled by simultaneous eye tracking. Reaction times showed a strong cue validity effect across all emotions (i.e., faster responses for directional cues). Comparing directed to nondirected attention revealed a significantly reduced signal in the FFA irrespective of the emotional expression. This effect was also seen in bilateral amygdala, but only in trials including fearful faces. Our findings suggest that covert shifts of attention toward a specific location result in reduced face processing independent from task demands. Furthermore, our data show a task-irrelevant amygdala response specific to fearful faces under a wide attentional focus. Attentional disengagement from the faces led to a suppression of this amygdala response and thus provides further evidence that amygdala activation depends on the focus of attention.
Effective connectivity is becoming an increasingly popular technique for obtaining additional information from functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) cognitive activation studies. It is potentially important for investigating psychiatric illnesses, which are thought to depend on disrupted connections and in observing the action of psychoactive drugs used to treat these disorders. If researchers are to apply these techniques confidently then it is important to establish the level of power that is available in an experiment. This study compares the level of power available when applying effective connectivity to test for differences between groups using parametric tests and permutation testing. Permutation testing has previously been shown to have superior sensitivity to parametric tests in fMRI studies. As an illustrative example, both the parametric t-test and equivalent permutation test were applied to a comparison between healthy controls and remitted depressed volunteers performing an emotional face processing task. Permutation testing was found to provide superior power compared with the nonparametric equivalent.
Theories of the positive symptoms of schizophrenia hypothesize a role for aberrant reinforcement signaling driven by dysregulated dopamine transmission. Recently, we provided evidence of aberrant reward learning in symptomatic, but not asymptomatic patients with schizophrenia, using a novel paradigm, the Salience Attribution Test (SAT). The SAT is a probabilistic reward learning game that employs cues that vary across task-relevant and task-irrelevant dimensions; it provides behavioral indices of adaptive and aberrant reward learning. As an initial step prior to future clinical studies, here we used functional magnetic resonance imaging to examine the neural basis of adaptive and aberrant reward learning during the SAT in healthy volunteers. As expected, cues associated with high relative to low reward probabilities elicited robust hemodynamic responses in a network of structures previously implicated in motivational salience; the midbrain, in the vicinity of the ventral tegmental area, and regions targeted by its dopaminergic projections, i.e. medial dorsal thalamus, ventral striatum and prefrontal cortex (PFC). Responses in the medial dorsal thalamus and polar PFC were strongly correlated with the degree of adaptive reward learning across participants. Finally, and most importantly, differential dorsolateral PFC and middle temporal gyrus (MTG) responses to cues with identical reward probabilities were very strongly correlated with the degree of aberrant reward learning. Participants who showed greater aberrant learning exhibited greater dorsolateral PFC responses, and reduced MTG responses, to cues erroneously inferred to be less strongly associated with reward. The results are discussed in terms of their implications for different theories of associative learning.
Response selection and control are supposed to reflect important basal ganglia functions. Recently, we showed that the dopaminergic system may be especially important for response selection in compatible, but not in incompatible stimulus-response (S-R) relations. Research indicates that the dopaminergic system is influenced by the serotonergic system, but little is known about the involvement of the serotonergic system in response selection. Analyzing event-related potentials (ERPs) in a sample of healthy probands (N=74), we show the 5-HT1A C(-1019)G polymorphism modulating response-related processes, as reflected in the N2 component, in compatible, but not incompatible, S-R relations. This modulation was a function of the number of -1019 G alleles. Decreasing numbers of -1019 G alleles were stepwise related to increases in the N2 on compatible trials and concomitant increases in response times. The functional effect of the 5-HT1A C(-1019)G polymorphism has previously been shown to be specific for serotonergic 1 A autoreceptors of serotonergic neurons in the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN). Due to this close relation of genotype effects to neuroanatomically dissociable structures, the results suggest that DRN serotonin 1 A autoreceptors are important for compatible S-R relations, i.e., response selection, but not for incompatible S-R relations, i.e. response conflict or inhibition. The results extend previous findings on the dopaminergic system to the serotonergic system. The examined functions are precisely regulated on a neuronal level, since neurophysiological and behavioural effects are driven in an allele-dose fashion. Because of this, the results are of importance for future clinical applications.
Behet's disease is a multisystem disorder first described in 1937 as a triad of oral and genital ulcerations and uveitis. The etiology is unknown. Involvement of the central nervous system (CNS) occurs in 10-25% of patients. Neuro-Behet's disease (NBD) can be classified as: (1) parenchymal, with a predilection for brainstem, basal ganglia and thalami involvement, subcortical white matter damage, spinal cord lesions, and meningoencephalitic presentations; (2) vascular, which usually affects major intracranial vessels with frequent involvement of the venous sinuses, cerebral veins and rarely intracranial arteries. Even if not constantly demonstrated in the CNS a vasculitic process involving small blood vessels, including venules, is regarded as an important pathological feature. We describe the case of a patient with NBD studied with conventional and diffusion weighted MR imaging.
We report clinical, radiological and pathological findings in a patient with central pontine and extrapontine myelinolysis. The patient was a 61-year-old woman who had a radical mastectomy for breast cancer. Based on clinical evidence, acute hyponatremia had set in only a few days before onset of symptoms. The patient's disease progressed in two stages and became more severe during slow hyponatremia correction after 9 days from onset. Diffusion MRI provided early evidence of neurological lesions. In spite of a therapeutic attempt, the patient died unexpectedly 18 days after onset of her neurological disease due to massive pulmonary embolism. Histologically, our findings confirmed that the major features of central pontine myelinolysis in the acute stage are demyelination, the presence of large amounts of macrophages with no lymphocytic inflammatory reaction, and moderate astrocytosis. It is interesting to note that a monotypic immunological reaction persisted 19 days after radiological demonstration of parenchymal alterations.
Mutations in dynamin-2 (DNM2) cause autosomal dominant centronuclear myopathy (CNM). We report a series of 12 patients from eight families with CNM in whom we have identified a number of novel features that expand the reported clinicopathological phenotype. We identified two novel and five recurrent missense mutations in DNM2. Early clues to the diagnosis include relative weakness of neck flexors, external ophthalmoplegia and ptosis, although these are not present in all patients. Pes cavus was present in two patients, and in another two members of one family there was mild slowing of nerve conduction velocities. Whole-body MRI examination in two children and one adult revealed a similar pattern of involvement of selective muscles in head (lateral pterygoids), neck (extensors), trunk (paraspinal) and upper limbs (deep muscles of forearm). Findings in lower limbs and pelvic region were similar to that previously reported in adults with DNM2 mutations. Two patients presented with dystrophic changes as the predominant pathological feature on muscle biopsies; one of whom had a moderately raised creatine kinase, and both patients were initially diagnosed as congenital muscular dystrophy. DNM2 mutation analysis should be considered in patients with a suggestive clinical phenotype despite atypical histopathology, and MRI findings can be used to guide genetic testing. Subtle neuropathic features in some patients suggest an overlap with the DNM2 neuropathy phenotype. Missense mutations in the C-terminal region of the PH domain appear to be associated with a more severe clinical phenotype evident from infancy.
Since the identification of phosphorylated and truncated transactive response DNA-binding protein 43 (TDP-43) as a primary component of ubiquitinated inclusions in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and frontotemporal lobar degeneration with ubiquitin-positive inclusions, and the discovery that mutations in the TDP-43 gene cause ALS, much effort has been directed towards establishing how TDP-43 contributes to the development of neurodegeneration. Although few in vivo models are presently available, findings thus far strongly support the involvement of abnormally modified TDP-43 in promoting TDP-43 aggregation and cellular mislocalization. Therefore, TDP-43-mediated neurotoxicity is likely to result from a combination of toxic gains of function conferred by TDP-43 inclusions as well as from the loss of normal TDP-43 function. Nonetheless, the exact neurotoxic TDP-43 species remain unclear, as do the mechanism(s) by which they cause neuronal death. Moreover, little is currently known about the roles of TDP-43, both in the nucleus and the cytoplasm, making it difficult to truly appreciate the detrimental consequences of aberrant TDP-43 function. This review will summarize what is currently understood regarding normal TDP-43 function and the involvement of TDP-43 in neurodegeneration, and will also highlight some of the many remaining questions in need of further investigation.
Lipoprotein lipase (LPL) is a key enzyme involved in lipid metabolism. Previous studies have shown that the levels of brain LPL mRNA, protein and activity are up-regulated after brain and nerve injury. The aim of this study was to determine the response of expression and activity of brain LPL following acute cerebral ischemia-reperfusion. Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were subjected to surgical occlusion of the middle cerebral artery. The expression of brain LPL was assessed by immunohistochemical staining and the enzyme activity of brain LPL was evaluated by colorimetric method. Increase of LPL immunopositive cells in the cerebral cortex around the infarction area was observed at 4, 6, 12 h ischemia, 2 h ischemia 2 h reperfusion, and 4 h ischemia 2 h reperfusion. LPL activity was significantly decreased in the ischemic side cortex at 2 h ischemia, and then significantly increased at 4 and 6 h ischemia. Our results showed that LPL immunopositive cells were increased in the cortex around the infarction area, and activity of LPL first decreased and then increased following acute cerebral ischemia-reperfusion. These results may suggest that LPL plays a potential role in the pathophysiological response of the brain to cerebral ischemia-reperfusion.
The aim of this study was to determine whether it was possible to predict therapy gain from participants' performance on background tests of language and cognitive ability. To do this, we amalgamated the assessment and therapy results from 33 people with aphasia following cerebral vascular accident (CVA), all of whom had received the same anomia therapy (based on progressive phonemic and orthographic cueing). Previous studies with smaller numbers of participants had found a possible relationship between anomia therapy performance and some language and cognitive assessments. Because this study had access to a larger data set than previous studies, we were able to replicate the previous findings and also to verify two overarching factors which were predictive of therapy gain: a cognitive factor and a phonological factor. The status of these two domains was able to predict both immediate and longer-term therapy gain. Pre-treatment naming ability also predicted gain after the anomia therapy. When combined, both cognitive and language (naming or phonological) skills were found to be independent predictors of therapy outcome.
Recent findings suggest that constructed experience, the ability to envision future events, activates the same cortical network as recollection of past events. For example, damage to one key area, the hippocampus, impairs patients' ability to remember the past and to imagine novel experiences (Hassabis, Kumaran, Vann, &amp; Maguire, 2007). Here, we investigated whether damage to two other areas, posterior parietal cortex and prefrontal cortex, also impairs this ability. Patients with bilateral posterior parietal lesions or unilateral prefrontal lesions were tested in their ability to describe imaginary future events. Only parietal patients were impaired at freely describing autobiographical memories, but both patient groups were impaired when elaborating constructed experiences. This dissociation suggests that parietal and prefrontal structures are differentially involved in constructed experience. Current tasks may impose overly broad cognitive demands making it impossible to specify the deficient cognitive component in any patient group. These findings provide additional constraints regarding the mechanistic role of the parietal cortex in memory.
Children with Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) often show spatial attentional deficits, exhibiting a subtle rightwards bias, possibly due to dysfunction within the right hemisphere fronto-parietal network. Approximately 50% of children with ADHD also show signs of movement dysfunction. The nature of this movement dysfunction and possible interactions with spatial attention difficulties has not been clearly described. This study compared 31 children with and 31 children without ADHD on a movement kinematic task that tested hand-drawing movement precision. Participants used an electronic pen on a digitizing tablet. The pen tip position was sampled as X and Y coordinates at 200Hz. The task was to join targets of either 10 or 20mm diameter that were separated by a distance of 62.5 or 125 mm. Constant error in the X and Y planes, peak absolute velocity and acceleration, movement time, the number of pauses and pause time were analysed. Apart from a significantly increased rate of acceleration across all conditions, the children with ADHD demonstrated no temporal difficulties with the task; rather they showed subtle spatial difficulties, possibly suggestive of cerebellar involvement. The children with ADHD showed difficulties in accuracy of movement towards the right. They were less accurate in the X plane when moving towards the right-sided targets over the long distance. Greater variability in target accuracy was shown when moving towards the small target on the right side. The children with ADHD made significantly more pauses on the left target, when preparing the right movement, than the control group. These results suggest that the subtle spatial bias towards the right that has been demonstrated in ADHD in spatial attention also extends into the continuous movement domain.
The key question of how the brain codes the meaning of words and pictures is the focus of vigorous debate. Is there a &quot;semantic hub&quot; in the temporal poles where these different inputs converge to form amodal conceptual representations? Alternatively, are there distinct neural circuits that underpin our comprehension of pictures and words? Understanding words might be primarily left-lateralised, linked to other language areas, while semantic representation of pictures may be more bilateral. To elucidate this debate, we used offline, low-frequency, repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) to disrupt neural processing temporarily in the left or right temporal poles. During the induced refractory period, participants made judgements of semantic association for verbal and pictorial stimuli. The efficiency of semantic processing was reduced by rTMS, yet a perceptual task of comparable difficulty was unaffected. rTMS applied to the left or right temporal poles disrupted semantic processing for words and pictures to the same degree, while rTMS delivered at a control site had no impact. The results confirm that both temporal poles form a critical substrate within the neural network that supports conceptual knowledge, regardless of modality.
Attention mediates access of sensory events to higher cognitive systems and can be driven by either top-down voluntary mechanisms or in a bottom-up, reflexive fashion by the sensory properties of a stimulus. The exact mechanisms underlying these different modes of attention are controversial, but both types of attention appear to be tightly coupled to the systems used for the control of eye-movements. Indeed, recent data indicates that patients with opthalmoplegia (paralysis of the eyes) have difficulty voluntarily attending to locations to which saccades cannot be made (Craighero, Carta, &amp; Fadiga, 2001) and experimentally induced opthalmoplegia disrupts voluntary attention in normal participants. However, the extent to which reflexive attention is mediated by the ability to make eye-movements in normal participants remains unclear. Here, we address this issue by investigating the effect of an experimentally induced opthalmoplegia on voluntary and reflexive attentional orienting during visual search. We observed that abducting the eye into the temporal hemifield elicited deficits of both voluntary and reflexive attention for targets that appeared beyond the oculomotor range. This result confirms the link between oculomotor control and voluntary attention observed in opthalmoplegic patients and demonstrates for the first time that reflexive attention is mediated by the ability to make eye-movements in normal participants.
Numerous lines of research indicate that attentional processes, working memory and saccadic processes are highly interrelated. In the current study, we examine the relation between these processes with respect to their cognitive-neurophysiological and neurobiological background by means of event-related potentials (ERPs) in a sample of N=72 healthy probands characterized for the functional serotonin receptor 1 A (5-HT1A) C(-1019)G polymorphism. The results support a close interrelation between working memory, attentional and saccadic processes. Yet, these processes are differentially modulated by the 5-HT1A C(-1019)G polymorphism. The 5-HT1A C(-1019)G polymorphism primarily affects attentional processing, whereas processes related to the mental rotation of an object are independent of 5-HT1A genetic variation. It is shown that an increasing number of -1019 G alleles leads to a differential reduction of the N1 above the left and right hemisphere and hence bottom-up attentional processing. In the way increasing numbers of -1019 G alleles lead to a reduction of attentional processes, saccadic activity increases as a similar function of the number of -1019 G alleles. This increase in activity occurs parallel in time to the process of mental rotation. It is hypothesized that decreased attentional processes, dependent on different 5-HT1A C(-1019)G genotypes, may cause parietal networks to increase saccadic activity in order to perform mental rotation.
Decision making, choosing the best option from the possible outcomes, is impaired in many psychiatric conditions including affective disorders. We tested the hypothesis that variations in serotonergic genes (TPH2, TPH1, SLC6A4, HTR1A), which influence serotonin availability, affect choice behavior in a probabilistic gambling task. A population cohort (N=1035) completed a paper-and-pencil gambling task, filled out personality and symptom questionnaires and gave consent for the use of their DNA in a genetic association study. A subgroup of subjects (N=69) also completed a computer version of the task. The gambling task was designed to estimate an individual's tendency to take a risk when choosing between a smaller but more certain 'win' and a larger, less probable one. We genotyped seven haplotype tagging SNPs in the TPH2 gene, and previously reported functional polymorphisms from the other genes (rs1800532, 5HTTLPR, and rs6295). Carriers of the more prevalent TPH2 haplotype, which was previously associated with less active enzyme variant, showed reduced risk taking on both tasks compared with subjects not carrying the common haplotype. The effect of TPH2 haplotypes on risk-taking was independent of current depression and anxiety symptoms, neuroticism and impulsiveness scores. We did not find an association between functional polymorphisms in the TPH1, SLC6A4, HTR1A genes and risk-taking behavior. In conclusion, our study demonstrates the role of the TPH2 gene and the serotonin system in risk taking and suggests that TPH2 gene may contribute to the expression of psychiatric phenotypes through altered decision making.
Blunted neurohormonal responses to serotonergic agents are found in major depression and suicidal behavior, but there have been no prospective studies of their relationship to later suicide attempt. In this study, healthy volunteers and depressed subjects were administered a fenfluramine (FEN) and placebo challenge test at baseline and then followed for 2 years. Seven subjects made suicide attempts within the follow-up period. Healthy volunteers, depressed non-attempters, depressed past suicide attempters, and depressed future attempters were compared on plasma prolactin and cortisol responses, as well as on mood (Profile of Mood States; POMS) and behavioral measures that were assessed at baseline and at the end of each challenge testing day. Both past and future attempters had lower total prolactin output (area under the curve) in response to FEN relative to non-patients. Future attempters had lower cortisol response relative to all other groups. All subject groups reported a decrease in POMS Fatigue subscale score and increase in finger tapping rate after receiving FEN. Depressed subjects reported a significant decline in POMS Total, Depression, and Tension/Anxiety scores, but future attempters' did not, showing a slight mean increase. Lower cortisol response correlated with greater suicidal ideation 3 months and 1 year post-study. Logistic regression revealed that blunting of cortisol response and worsening of mood after FEN, and younger age could be used to predict later suicide attempt in the majority of cases (4/7). Results suggest that blunted cortisol and unfavorable acute mood response to serotonergic challenge, in the context of the general activating effects of these drugs, may be a risk factor for later suicide attempt.
Mechanical offers several advantages over drug thrombolysis: in particular, the haemorrhagic risk may be not significantly increased while working out the indications got intravenous drug thrombolysis. Available tools were in our hands inefficient, stiff and dangerous. We found a retrievable stent efficient and easy to handle for this purpose. This experience is described.
What biological mechanisms underlie the reward-predictive firing properties of midbrain dopaminergic neurons, and how do they relate to the complex constellation of empirical findings understood as Pavlovian and instrumental conditioning? We previously presented PVLV, a biologically inspired Pavlovian learning algorithm accounting for DA activity in terms of two interrelated systems: a primary value (PV) system, which governs how DA cells respond to a US (reward) and; a learned value (LV) system, which governs how DA cells respond to a CS. Here, we provide a more extensive review of the biological mechanisms supporting phasic DA firing and their relation to the spate of Pavlovian conditioning phenomena and their sensitivity to focal brain lesions. We further extend the model by incorporating a new NV (novelty value) component reflecting the ability of novel stimuli to trigger phasic DA firing, providing &quot;novelty bonuses&quot; which encourages exploratory working memory updating and in turn speeds learning in trace conditioning and other working memory-dependent paradigms. The evolving PVLV model builds upon insights developed in many earlier computational models, especially reinforcement learning models based on the ideas of Sutton and Barto, biological models, and the psychological model developed by Savastano and Miller. The PVLV framework synthesizes these various approaches, overcoming important shortcomings of each by providing a coherent and specific mapping to much of the relevant empirical data at both the micro- and macro-levels, and examines their relevance for higher order cognitive functions.
Studies in humans and animals show that dopaminergic neuromodulation originating from the substantia nigra/ventral tegmental area (SN/VTA) of the midbrain enhances hippocampal synaptic plasticity for novel events and has a motivationally energizing effect on actions through striatal mechanisms. In this review, we discuss how these mechanisms of dopaminergic neuromodulation connect to the behavioural and functional consequences that age-related structural degeneration of the SN/VTA exerts on declarative memory. We propose a framework called 'NOvelty-related Motivation of Anticipation and exploration by Dopamine' (NOMAD) which captures existing links between novelty, dopamine, long-term memory, plasticity, energization and their relation to aging. We propose that maximizing the use of this mechanism by maintaining mobility and exploration of novel environments could be a potential mechanism to slow age-related decline of memory.
Schizophrenia is a chronic, severe, and disabling brain disorder arising from the adverse interaction of predisposing risk genes and environmental factors. The psychopathology is characterized by a wide array of disturbing cognitive, emotional, and behavioral symptoms that interfere with the individual's capacity to function in society. Contemporary pathophysiological models assume that psychotic symptoms are triggered by a dysregulation of dopaminergic activity in the brain, a theory that is tightly linked to the serendipitous discovery of the first effective antipsychotic agents in the early 1950s. In recent years, the availability of modern neuroimaging techniques has significantly expanded our understanding of the key mediator circuits that bridge the gap between genetic susceptibility and clinical phenotype. This paper discusses the pathophysiological concepts, molecular mechanisms and neuroimaging evidence that link psychosis to disturbances in dopamine neurotransmission.







Subependymoma is a rare benign CNS tumor (WHO grade I). The common sites of origin for this type of tumor are the lateral and the fourth ventricles. A spinal intramedullary location is rare. Radiological features of intramedullary subependymoma can mimic more common and more aggressive tumor types. We report a case of a 61-year-old male who presented with a 3-year history of low back pain, associated with right lower limb progressive weakness and sensory numbness. An MRI of the lumbar spine revealed an intradural intramedullary lesion extending from the level of T10-L1. Clinical presentation, radiological, and pathological studies of this case of subependymoma are presented. The incidence of spinal subependymoma was also discussed in light of a literature review.
We report a case of meningovascular syphilis in a young adult woman presenting with left hemiparesis due to near occlusion of proximal cervical internal carotid with subacute middle cerebral artery territory infarction. Diagnosis was made on the basis of positive serum, and spinal fluid serology for syphilis, carotid Doppler, and magnetic resonance angiography, as well as improvement after intravenous penicillin therapy. In this case report, the imaging findings were described and related literature was reviewed.
Sarcoidosis is a multi-system granulomatous disease of unknown etiology. It mainly affects the lungs more than other organs, but liver, skin, lymph nodes, and nervous system can be involved. The last is referred to as neurosarcoidosis with a wide range of clinical manifestations depending on the area of the nervous system involved. The differential diagnosis is wide, and the diagnosis, which is based on the histopathology, is sometimes difficult to confirm. Magnetic resonance imaging is the imaging modality of choice for establishing CNS involvement along with the clinical presentation. Cerebrospinal fluid analysis is indicative of the disease activity. We report a 39-year-old man of Indian origin who presented with persistent vomiting for over 2 years due to hypopituitarism and active neurosarcoidosis.
This report presents an ideal case of a girl with Fragile X syndrome. There is positive family history of the same condition. The analysis revealed low average IQ with attention deficit, shyness, and social withdrawal. The report shows that girls with Fragile X might have only mild cognitive deficits that enable them to adapt and succeed in society.
Offering a new perspective on sleep state misperception, we discuss a patient who presented with sleep state misperception and was ultimately diagnosed with delusional disorder. A 60-year-old woman with chief complaints of insomnia, agitation, and suicidal ideation, was admitted to an inpatient psychiatric ward. Based on information from her family and a mental state examination, her primary diagnosis was sleep state misperception. She was treated with Trazodone. Because she was unresponsive to the treatment, a full psychiatric evaluation and wrist actigraphy report were undertaken, resulting in a revised diagnosis of delusional disorder. She was started on Olanzapine and, after 6 weeks was discharged with good improvement. Sleep state misperception might be considered not just as a sleep disorder, but also as a psychiatric disorder with psychotic symptoms. Further research is recommended.






Accurate localization of the epileptogenic zone is the fundamental key factor for successful epilepsy surgery. Despite the progress achieved in the field of neuroimaging, invasive intracranial recording is still the gold standard that helps recognize the patient population who may profit from surgery. Meticulous implantation of intracranial electrodes and judicious interpretation of their data is a definite need in a successful epilepsy program. Few centers in the Arab world are in that domain. Moreover, the society itself is not well informed to appreciate the potentials of surgical treatment of seizure disorders. In this review article, we will go over various types of intracranial recordings, discussing their indications, and the last updates for each. Some of the cases carried out at the American University of Beirut Medical Center, Beirut, Lebanon will be illustrated as examples of our current practice. Then, the future of epilepsy monitoring will be highlighted in brief.
Vasospasm is a major cause of morbidity and mortality following aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. This article reviews the risk factors for vasospasm; the various methods for diagnosing vasospasm including the conventional 4-vessel angiography, computed tomographic angiography, and computed tomographic perfusion; the methods to detect vasospasm before clinical onset (including transcranial Doppler ultrasonography); and the recent emergence of multimodality monitoring. A discussion of medical treatment options in the setting of vasospasm is also included; the prophylactic use of &quot;neuroprotectants&quot; such as nimodipine, statins, and magnesium and the role of hemodynamic augmentation in vasospasm amelioration, including the use of inotropic support in addition to traditional triple-H therapy, are discussed.
Aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (aSAH) is a devastating condition, requiring prompt diagnosis and therapeutic intervention as well as close monitoring for the development of complications including vasospasm (VS). Although digital subtraction angiography is still considered the gold standard for the diagnosis of aSAH (and vasospasm), new and less invasive modalities are emerging including ultrasound, CT, CT angiography and CT perfusion, and MR imaging. The current evidence for the use of these newer modalities is described for the diagnosis of aSAH and the management of its sequelae including VS.
Transcranial Doppler ultrasonography (TCD) is a tool employed by the neurosurgeon and neurointensivist in the management of vasospasm in the intensive care unit after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. A review of the current indications, monitoring parameters, indices, and relevance of modern TCD technology is provided, as well as algorithms for the use of TCD ultrasonography in the management of patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage. Other current uses of TCD ultrasonography are also discussed in the setting of neurocritical care.

The treatment of petroclival meningiomas is still a matter of controversy in literature. In the last decades, many approaches have been introduced. Our strategy for the treatment of such tumors having large supratentorial extension with encasement of the internal carotid artery or compression of optic and oculomotor nerves has evolved in the attempt to improve the outcome. Currently, we favor a surgical technique consisting of two steps. As first step, we perform a retrosigmoid suprameatal approach in order to resect the posterior part of the tumor and obtain brainstem decompression. In the second step, carried out after patient's recovery from the first surgery, we remove the supratentorial portion of the lesion using a frontotemporal craniotomy to achieve the decompression of the optic nerve, oculomotor nerve, and carotid artery. The retrosigmoid suprameatal approach allows for adequate brainstem decompression: the tumor itself creates a surgical channel increasing the accessibility to the lower and upper petroclival surface. Moreover, this route allows for early visualization of cranial nerves in the posterior fossa and safe tumor removal under direct visual control, reducing the risk of postoperative deficits. Via the simple and safe frontotemporal craniotomy, the supratentorial part of the lesion can be removed thus avoiding the need of invasive approaches. We propose a two-stage surgery for treatment of petroclival meningiomas combining two simple routes such as retrosigmoid suprameatal and frontotemporal craniotomy. This approach reflects our philosophy to use simple and less invasive approaches in order to preserve neurological function and a good quality of life of the patient.
Magnetic resonance elastography (MRE) has been developed over the last few years as a non-invasive means of evaluating the elasticity of biological tissues. The presence of the skull has always prevented semeiotic palpation of the brain, but MRE now offers the possibility of &quot;palpating by imaging&quot; in order to detect brain consistency under physiological and pathological conditions. The aim of this article is to review the current state-of-the-art of MRE imaging and discuss its possible future diagnostic applications in neuroscience.
Few families have had an impact on medicine to equal that of the Meckel family. Johann Friedrich Meckel the Elder is of special interest to the neurosciences, given that his dissertation on the fifth cranial nerve included the first description of the arachnoid space investing the trigeminal nerve into the middle fossa. He was interested in neuroanatomy, along with botany and pathology of the inguinal hernia and the lymphatic system. His mentors included the eminent Albrecht von Haller (1708-1777) and August Buddaeus (1695-1753), and he extended his own influence on the work of Giovanni Morgagni and Alexander Monro II. He spent the latter part of his life in Berlin as professor of anatomy, botany, and obstetrics. His son, Philipp Friedrich Theodor Meckel (1755-1803), was one of the founders of the current collection of anatomic specimens at the University of Halle and provided important groundwork for the practice of obstetrics. Meckel the Elder's grandson, Johann Friedrich Meckel the Younger (1781-1833), was a more prolific investigator and founder of the science of teratology. Many anatomic structures, such as Meckel's diverticulum, bear his name, and he vastly expanded the university's anatomic collection. August Albrecht Meckel (1789-1829), Meckel the Younger's brother, practiced legal medicine and investigated avian anatomy but died prematurely from tuberculosis. August's son, Johann Heinrich Meckel (1821-1856), took the instructor's position in pathologic anatomy at the University of Berlin that his great-grandfather had held at the Charit. After his untimely death from pulmonary disease, his position was filled by Rudolf Virchow. The history of this family is discussed in detail.



The sympathetic nervous system (SNS) innervation of white adipose tissue (WAT) is the principal initiator of lipolysis. Using pseudorabies virus, a transneuronal viral tract tracer, brain sites involved in the SNS outflow to WAT have been identified previously by us. One of these sites, the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVH) that shows predominantly unilateral sympathetic outflow from each half of the nucleus to ipsilaterally located WAT depots, was tested for laterality in lipid accumulation/mobilization in Siberian hamsters. First we tested whether unilateral PVH electrolytic lesions (PVHx) would increase lipid accumulation in WAT pads ipsilateral to the side of the PVHx. PVHx significantly increased body and WAT pad masses compared with sham PVHx; however, there was no laterality effect. In addition, bilateral PVHx increased body and WAT pad masses, as well as food intake, to a greater extent than did unilateral PVHx. We next tested for possible laterality effects on WAT lipid mobilization using food deprivation as the lipolytic stimulus in hamsters bearing unilateral or bilateral PVHx. Lipid mobilization was not prevented, as indicated indirectly by WAT mass and thus laterality of lipid mobilization could not be tested. We then tested whether removal of adrenal catecholamines via adrenal demedullation (ADMEDx) alone, or combined with bilateral PVHx, would block food deprivation-induced lipid mobilization, but neither did so. These results suggest that an intact PVH is not necessary for food deprivation-induced lipid mobilization and support the primacy of the SNS innervation of WAT, rather than adrenal medullary catecholamines, for lipid mobilization from WAT.
The head and pinna shape the sound reaching the tympanum. We explored this signal transformation in humans and a mini basketball for different sound locations in an anechoic chamber. For humans, we embedded microphones in ear molds that were custom fitted to the subject's ear canal. For the ball, the microphones were flush with the surface at +/- 90 degrees azimuths on the equator. Sounds were generated with a custom point source. In the ball, the signal level was nearly flat across frequency, with no gains. In contrast, in the ears, signal level changed in a complex way across frequency, with considerable gains. For frequencies &lt; 2 kHz, the interaural level difference (ILD) increased with decreasing distance similarly in the human ears and ball. For frequencies &gt; 4 kHz, ILDs in the human ears were larger and more complex than those in the ball such that the human ILDs were nonmonotonic with distance whereas the ball ILDs were monotonic with distance.
Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) are longstanding targets for a next generation of pain therapeutics, but the nAChR subtypes that govern analgesia remain unknown. We tested a series of nicotinic agonists, including many molecules used or tried clinically, on a panel of cloned neuronal nAChRs for potency and selectivity using patch-clamp electrophysiology and a live cell-based fluorescence assay. Nonselective nicotinic agonists as well as compounds selective either for alpha4beta2 or for alpha7 nAChRs were then tested in the formalin and complete Freund's adjuvant models of pain. Nonselective nAChR agonists ABT-594 and varenicline were effective analgesics. By contrast, the selective alpha4beta2 agonist ispronicline and a novel alpha4beta2-selective potentiator did not appear to produce analgesia in either model. alpha7-selective agonists reduced the pain-related endpoint, but the effect could be ascribed to nonspecific reduction of movement rather than to analgesia. Neither selective nor nonselective alpha7 nicotinic agonists affected the release of pro-inflammatory cytokines in response to antigen challenge. Electrophysiological recordings from spinal cord slice showed a strong nicotine-induced increase in inhibitory synaptic transmission that was mediated partially by alpha4beta2 and only minimally by alpha7 subtypes. Taken with previous studies, the results suggest that agonism of alpha4beta2 nAChRs is necessary but not sufficient to produce analgesia, and that the spinal cord is a key site where the molecular action of nAChRs produces analgesia.
The present study was performed to determine the effect of intracerebroventricular (ICV) administration of W-7, a specific calmodulin inhibitor, on the development of tolerance to antinociceptive effect morphine administration. This study was carried out on male wistar rats, weighing 200-250 g. Morphine was administered daily (15 mg/kg for 8 days). The threshold to thermal nociceptive stimuli was measured by tail-flick test. W-7 (0.25, 0.5 and 1 micromol/rat) was injected through ICV. Maximal possible effect percentage (MPE %) was considered as analgesia index. Our result showed that chronic morphine exposure induced tolerance to its antinociceptive effect and administration of W-7 (0.5 and 1 micromol/rat) decreased the development of tolerance to it. In conclusion these data showed that chronic injection of W-7 inhibited the development of morphine tolerance which indicates that calmodulin and its dependent pathways may play a role in the morphine tolerance processes.
Rosai-Dorfman disease (RDD) is a rare benign condition of unknown origin, which was first described in 1969. By histopathology, the disease is composed of sinusoidal lymph node hyperplasia and abundant histiocytes with haemophagocytosis, particularly lymphocytes. It commonly affects lymph nodes, and rarely has an exclusively extra-nodal clinical presentation. Among the so-called &quot;extranodal&quot; sites, the head and neck region, and in particular the nose and paranasal sinuses, are frequently affected. RDD shows a highly variable clinical course that can be partly modified by medical therapy. We present of a case of extra-nodal RDD, with nasal and osseous involvement, which has been followed-up for 19 years. We also discuss its presentation, the most relevant radiographic findings, treatment options and histological findings.
Neurochemicals that stimulate food foraging and hoarding in Siberian hamsters are becoming more apparent, but we do not know if cessation of these behaviors is due to waning of excitatory stimuli and/or the advent of inhibitory factors. Cholecystokinin (CCK) may be such an inhibitory factor as it is the prototypic gastrointestinal satiety peptide and is physiologically important in decreasing food intake in several species including Siberian hamsters. Systemic injection of CCK-33 in laboratory rats decreases food intake, doing so to a greater extent than CCK-8. We found minimal effects of CCK-8 on food foraging and hoarding previously in Siberian hamsters, but have not tested CCK-33. Therefore, we asked: Does CCK-33 decrease normal levels or food deprivation-induced increases in food foraging, hoarding and intake? Hamsters were housed in a wheel running-based foraging system with simulated burrows to test the effects of peripheral injections of CCK-33 (13.2, 26.4, or 52.8 microg/kg body mass), with or without a preceding 56 h food deprivation. The highest dose of CCK-33 caused large baseline reductions in all three behaviors for the 1st hour post-injection compared with saline; in addition, the intermediate CCK-33 dose was sufficient to curtail food intake and foraging during the 1st hour. In food-deprived hamsters, we used a 52.8 microg/kg body mass dose of CCK-33 which decreased food intake, hoarding, and foraging almost completely compared with saline controls for 1h. Therefore, CCK-33 appears to be a potent inhibitor of food intake, hoarding, and foraging in Siberian hamsters.
Earlier results suggest a minor role of variants in the serotonin 3 receptor (HTR3) subunit genes on antipsychotic treatment outcome of schizophrenia patients. In this study, we further investigated the role of the subunits A and B of the HTR3 receptor using 140 schizophrenia patients taking clozapine for 6 months. We have found significant allelic association of clozapine response with three variants in the HTR3A receptor (rs2276302, rs1062613, rs1150226) although only rs1062613 association remained significant after permutations (permutated P=0.041). Moreover, rs2276302 and rs1062613 have shown nominally significant genotypic association. The two haplotypes composed of rs2276302-rs1062613-rs1150226 were also nominally significant. Taken together, our results suggest that variants in the HTR3A receptor gene can play a role in the treatment outcome of clozapine in schizophrenia patients that are refractory or intolerant of typical antipsychotic therapy. Further studies are necessary to confirm the reported associations.
Adolescent rats have been observed to be less sensitive than adults to a number of ethanol effects that may serve as feedback cues to reduce further ethanol intake. Among these findings are a few reports of attenuated sensitivities of adolescents to ethanol-induced motor impairment. The purpose of the present study was to further explore potential age-related differences in ethanol-induced motor impairment in both male and female adolescent (postnatal day [P]28-32), and adult (P68-72) Sprague-Dawley rats using an inclined plane assessment of the negative geotaxis reflex. Adult males displayed significant motor impairment at 1.5 g/kg, whereas adolescent males required higher doses, showing significant motor impairment only at doses of 2.25 g/kg ethanol or greater. Intoxicated practice did not significantly influence level of motor impairment at either age. When female rats of both ages were separately analyzed in terms of their response to ethanol, a dose of 1.5 g/kg ethanol was found to significantly impair adults, whereas adolescent females showed significant motor impairment when challenged with 2.25 g/kg but not 1.5 g/kg ethanol. Yet when the 1.5 g/kg data of females at the two ages were directly compared, no significant age difference was seen at this dose. These data document an attenuated sensitivity of adolescent relative to adult rats to the motor impairing effects of ethanol using a stationary inclined plane test, an effect particularly robust in male animals, and demonstrates the utility of this test for assessment of motor coordination in adolescent and adult rats.
The study was to find out the effect of Vitamin D3 supplementation on preventing the altered gene expression of cholinergic, dopaminergic, insulin receptors and GLUT3 gene expression in cerebellum of diabetic rats. Radioreceptor binding assays and gene expression were done in the cerebellum of male Wistar rats. Rota rod has been used to evaluate motor coordination. Our results showed a significantly increased gene expression of dopamine D2, muscarinic M1, M3, alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine, insulin receptors, acetylcholine esterase, GLUT3 and Vitamin D receptor in the cerebellum of diabetic rats. There was a down-regulation of dopamine D1 receptor. Total dopamine receptor showed a decreased and total muscarinic, muscarinic M1 and M3 receptors showed an increased binding parameter, B(max). Rota rod experiment showed a significant decrease in the retention time on the rotating rod in diabetic while treatment improved retention time near to control. Vitamin D3 and insulin treatment markedly recovered the altered gene expression and binding parameters to near control. Our study showed Vitamin D3 functional regulation through dopaminergic, cholinergic and insulin receptors and glucose transport mechanism through GLUT3 in the cerebellum of diabetic rats which play a major role in neuroprotection in diabetes which has clinical application.
Research has reported that nicotine can increase accuracy, response times and rates of learning with evidence of different effects on males and females. The goal of our research was to study further sex differences by examining the role played by estrogen in the effects of nicotine on learning and memory in female rats. In experiment 1, 48 male and female rats were administered 0.3 mg or 0.7 mg/kg bwt of nicotine (nic) or vehicle only (veh) and tested in a visual spatial orientation (VSO) paradigm designed to maximize the benefits of nicotine on spatial working memory. Females exposed to 0.3 mg nic performed superior to all other groups of both genders. In experiment 2, ovariectomized females (N=40) were exposed to 30 microg estradiol/kg bwt (E2), 3 mg nicotine/kg bwt, a combination of both E2 and nic, or veh, and tested as in experiment 1. The rankings of scores in the VSO task by group were E2+nic&gt;nic alone&gt;E2 alone&gt;veh. The E2+nic combination group also demonstrated the highest rate of acquisition. Collectively, the findings suggest that estrogen can synergize the ability of chronic nicotine to enhance acetylcholine-hippocampal interactions underlying performance in the VSO paradigm.
Several studies have tested nicotinic receptor ligands in the 5-Choice Serial Reaction Time Task (5-CSRTT) with varying results. Some investigators have increased attentional demands by modifying task parameters or using aged or poor performing rats to observe treatment effects. This study examined the alpha4beta2 nicotinic agonist ABT-594 in the 5-CSRTT using a variety of manipulations to determine optimal conditions for observing enhancement. ABT-594 had no effect in drug-nave adult rats that self-initiated trials. Constant trial presentation decreased accuracy and omissions, with the latter significantly attenuated by acute administration of ABT-594 (0.019-0.062 micromol/kg). Sub-chronic treatment (0.019 micromol/kg) initially impaired drug-nave subjects, but significant improvements in accuracy and decreased omissions were observed after 5 days of dosing. In 18-22 month-old rats, attentional demands were altered by interspersing blocks of trials with different stimulus durations. Acute ABT-594 (0.062 micromol/kg) enhanced accuracy performance in poor performing rats (&lt;70% accuracy) but not in those that performed well (&gt;80% accuracy), while omissions were decreased in both groups. Sub-chronic treatment with (0.019 micromol/kg) decreased omissions in all rats, but enhanced accuracy primarily in poor performing rats. These experiments demonstrate that an alpha4beta2 nicotinic agonist can enhance attention, but accuracy effects may only be observed under specific conditions. Moreover, a reduction in omissions was more reliably observed than improvements in accuracy, resulting in a net increase in signals successfully detected.
The long-term effects of perinatal Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (Delta(9)-THC) exposure - from gestational day (GD) 15 to postnatal day (PND) 9 - on hippocampal glutamatergic neurotransmission were studied in slices from the 40-day-old offspring of Delta(9)-THC exposed (Delta(9)-THC-rats) and vehicle-exposed (control) dams. Basal and in K+-evoked endogenous hippocampal glutamate outflow were both significantly decreased in Delta(9)-THC-rats. The effect of short Delta(9)-THC exposure (0.1microM) on K(+)-evoked glutamate release disclosed a loss of the stimulatory effect of Delta(9)-THC on hippocampal glutamate release in Delta(9)-THC-rats, but not in controls. In addition, l-[(3)H]-glutamate uptake was significantly lower in hippocampal slices from Delta(9)-THC-rats, where a significant decrease in glutamate transporter 1 (GLT1) and glutamate/aspartate transporter (GLAST) protein was also detected. Collectively, these data demonstrate that perinatal exposure to cannabinoids induces long-term impairment in hippocampal glutamatergic neurotransmission that persist into adolescence.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is the commonest cause of progressive neurological disability amongst young, Caucasian adults. MS is considered to be an auto-immune disease that results from an attack against myelin, the layer which surrounds axons. The pathophysiology of MS is complex, with both demyelination and axonal degeneration contributing to what is essentially an inflammatory neurodegenerative disease. Axonal loss is increasingly being accepted as the histopathological correlate of neurological disability. Currently, the underpinnings of neurodegeneration in MS, and how to promote neuroprotection are only partly understood. No established treatments that directly reduce nervous system damage or enhance its repair are currently available. Moreover, the ability of currently available immunomodulatory therapies used to treat MS, such as interferon-beta, to prevent long-term disability is uncertain. Results from short-term randomized-controlled trials suggest a partial benefit with regards to disability outcomes, but this is yet to be established in long-term studies. Novel neuroprotective agents have been identified in preclinical studies but their development is being hampered by the absence of appropriate clinical platforms to test them. In this article, we will discuss some of the principal therapeutic candidates that could provide neuroprotection in MS and emerging methodologies by which to test them.
The present study was designed to investigate the effect of the H3 antagonist clobenpropit on neurotoxicity induced by Abeta42 in differentiated rat PC12 cells. PC12 cells were exposed to Abeta42 (5 microM) for 24h after clobenpropit applied for 18 h. Cell viability, glutamate release or cell surface expression of NMDA receptors were examined. Pretreatment with clobenpropit ameliorated cell impairment induced by Abeta42. In the presence of Abeta42, clobenpropit increased glutamate release, although there were no differences between the Abeta42-treated sample and control. Meanwhile, in the absence of Abeta42, clobenpropit increased the surface expression of NMDA receptors when the total expression of NMDA receptors was not influenced. These results indicate that one of the mechanisms by which clobenpropit attenuates Abeta42-induced neurotoxicity may act through regulation of glutamate release and NMDA receptor trafficking.
We study a pair of endogenously bursting neurons with fast nondelayed inhibitory connections. We show that fast reciprocal inhibition, known to facilitate antiphase bursting, can stably synchronize bursting neurons. This contrasts with the classical view that reciprocal inhibition has to be slow or time delayed to establish in-phase synchronization. Through stability analysis, we reveal the emergent mechanism of in-phase synchronization and discuss its implications for various types of bursting neurons and networks.
Granger causality analysis is a popular method for inference on directed interactions in complex systems of many variables. A shortcoming of the standard framework for Granger causality is that it only allows for examination of interactions between single (univariate) variables within a system, perhaps conditioned on other variables. However, interactions do not necessarily take place between single variables but may occur among groups or &quot;ensembles&quot; of variables. In this study we establish a principled framework for Granger causality in the context of causal interactions among two or more multivariate sets of variables. Building on Geweke's seminal 1982 work, we offer additional justifications for one particular form of multivariate Granger causality based on the generalized variances of residual errors. Taken together, our results support a comprehensive and theoretically consistent extension of Granger causality to the multivariate case. Treated individually, they highlight several specific advantages of the generalized variance measure, which we illustrate using applications in neuroscience as an example. We further show how the measure can be used to define &quot;partial&quot; Granger causality in the multivariate context and we also motivate reformulations of &quot;causal density&quot; and &quot;Granger autonomy.&quot; Our results are directly applicable to experimental data and promise to reveal new types of functional relations in complex systems, neural and otherwise.
The effects of gestational age and dose of nickel exposure on regulating and influencing placental transfer were investigated. Pregnant rats on gestational day (GD) 12, 15 or 20 were injected intraperitoneally with saline, 64,320 or 640 kBq/kg body weight of (63)Ni. Twenty-four hours after administration, samples were harvested from each for measurement of radioactivity by liquid scintillation counting and for autoradiography. In placenta, amniotic fluid and fetal membrane, (63)Ni concentrations increased with increasing doses and gestational age. In fetus, (63)Ni concentrations reached a maximum on GD 15 and then declined on GD 20 although they maintained a dose-dependency for each GD group. In fetal blood on GD 20, (63)Ni concentration increased dose-dependently and was higher than in maternal blood. The autoradiographs demonstrated that (63)Ni radioactivity was located within placental basal lamina, fetal bones and most organs. These findings suggest that the nickel uptake, retention and transport in placenta increase dose- and gestation age-dependently, and nickel transfer through placental barrier is primarily from mother into the fetus, but hardly from fetus to mother.

Episodes of behavioural disturbance are commonplace on neurology wards. The key to their safe management is prior planning, including securing the safety of the ward environment, and a formal risk assessment. Protocols which define staff roles and the unit strategy for the management of behavioural disturbance should be formally agreed and appropriate training provided. The commonest cause of disturbed behaviour in neurology-and neurosurgical wards-is delirium. This presents with fluctuating orientation, grossly impaired attention and disruption of the sleep-wake cycle. The cause is generally multifactorial with a combination of pre-existing vulnerabilities and acute precipitants. Management reflects this and depends on a multifaceted approach to medical care, including basic supportive measures, minimising polypharmacy and promoting orientation, early mobilisation and nutritional status, as well as treating the underlying medical conditions. Antipsychotic medication has a specific treatment effect but never as the only approach to the management of the delirious patient.
Hallucinations are a common symptom in pediatric populations. Because spontaneous rapid recovery often occurs, routine medication with antipsychotic drugs should be avoided. An adequate initial etiological assessment requires a medical examination, a psychiatric interview, and a meeting with key adult informants. Laboratory testing and imaging may also be useful. The risk of self-injury or harming others must be systematically assessed and should determine the choice between prescribing a nonspecific anxiolytic medication or hospitalizing the child. Treatment should combine psychotherapy and psychoeducation, and antipsychotics should be given in case of prodromal psychotic presentation. In the years to come, randomized controlled trials should define the exact role that repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation might play as a treatment of hallucinations in children and adolescents.
With the aging of the population, the growing incidence and prevalence of Alzheimer's disease (AD) increases the burden on individuals and society as a whole. To date, the pathophysiology of AD is not yet fully understood. Recent studies have suggested that epigenetic mechanisms may play a pivotal role in its course and development. The most frequently studied epigenetic mechanisms are DNA methylation and histone modifications, and investigations relevant to aging and AD are presented in this review. Various studies on human postmortem brain samples and peripheral leukocytes, as well as transgenic animal models and cell culture studies relevant to AD will be discussed. From those, it is clear that aging and AD are associated with epigenetic dysregulation at various levels. Moreover, data on e.g. twin studies in AD support the notion that epigenetic mechanisms mediate the risk for AD. Conversely, it is still not fully clear whether the observed epigenetic changes actually represent a cause or a consequence of the disease. This is mainly due to the fact that most clinical investigations on epigenetics in AD are conducted in samples of patients already in an advanced stage of the disease. Evidently, more research is needed in order to clarify the exact role of epigenetic regulation in the course and development of AD. Research on earlier stages of the disease could provide more insight into its underlying pathophysiology, possibly contributing to the establishment of early diagnosis and the development of more effective treatment strategies.
After 40 years of investigation, steady-state visually evoked potentials (SSVEPs) have been shown to be useful for many paradigms in cognitive (visual attention, binocular rivalry, working memory, and brain rhythms) and clinical neuroscience (aging, neurodegenerative disorders, schizophrenia, ophthalmic pathologies, migraine, autism, depression, anxiety, stress, and epilepsy). Recently, in engineering, SSVEPs found a novel application for SSVEP-driven brain-computer interface (BCI) systems. Although some SSVEP properties are well documented, many questions are still hotly debated. We provide an overview of recent SSVEP studies in neuroscience (using implanted and scalp EEG, fMRI, or PET), with the perspective of modern theories about the visual pathway. We investigate the steady-state evoked activity, its properties, and the mechanisms behind SSVEP generation. Next, we describe the SSVEP-BCI paradigm and review recently developed SSVEP-based BCI systems. Lastly, we outline future research directions related to basic and applied aspects of SSVEPs.
Mediator lipidomics is a field of study concerned with the characterization, structural elucidation and bioactivity of lipid derivatives actively generated by enzymatic activity. It is well known that omega-3 fatty acids are beneficial for brain function. Docosahexaenoic acid [DHA; 4 22:6(n-3)] is the most abundant essential omega-3 fatty acid present in the brain and it has multiple mechanisms of exerting protective effects after cellular injury. Certain lipid species produced from DHA early during the reperfusion stage of brain ischemia-reperfusion injury are generated in order to help the cell cope as the injury progresses. We explore these newly discovered lipid mediators in order to understand their role in the cell. We have identified one of these potentially protective lipid mediators as a novel stereospecific DHA-derived fatty acid, called neuroprotectin D1 (NPD1; 10R,17S-dihydroxy-docosa-4Z,7Z,11E,15E,19Z hexaenoic acid). DHA also has important roles in pro-survival signaling cascades after ischemia-reperfusion in injury. It has been shown to accelerate AKT translocation and activation and has binding affinity with an important PPAR-gamma family of ligand-activated nuclear receptors that have been implicated in various aspects of lipid metabolism and have been shown to have anti-inflammatory actions. Here we present an overview of these mechanisms and discuss the potential of using DHA signaling in the development of treatments for the large population of patients suffering from the devastating consequences of stroke.


Although in traditional attention research the focus of visual spatial attention has been considered as indivisible, many studies in the last 15 years have claimed the contrary. These studies suggest that humans can direct their attention simultaneously to multiple noncontiguous regions of the visual field upon mere instruction. The notion that spatial attention can easily be split is counterintuitive in the light of current neurocognitive models of attention. We examined studies on divided attention against 4 methodological criteria that should be satisfied in order to convincingly demonstrate divided attention, and we found no studies in the current literature that pass this test. On the basis of current theories of attention, we argue that dividing attention may not be easily achievable by naive human observers and that, instead, it is a skill that may be acquired only through training.
Many forensic disciplines require experts to judge whether two complex patterns are sufficiently similar to conclude that both originate from the same source. Studies in this area have revealed that there are a number of factors that affect perception and judgment and that decisions are subjective and susceptible to extraneous influences (such as emotional context, expectation, and motivation). Some studies have shown that the same expert examiner, examining the same prints but within different contexts, may reach different and contradictory decisions. However, such effects are not always present; some examiners seem more susceptible to such influences than do others--especially when the pattern matching is &quot;hard to call&quot; and when the forensic experts are not aware that they are being observed in an experimental study. Studying forensic examiners can contribute to our understanding of expertise and decision making, as well as have implications for forensic science and other areas of expertise.
Maternal behavior in rodents has been proposed to vary as a function of the external environment and, in turn, adjust offspring's stress and fear responses. Early handling (brief periods of maternal separation during the first two weeks of life) studies and analyses of spontaneously high-caring rat mothers converge to indicate that increased levels of maternal care may reduce offspring emotionality in adulthood. However, the hypothesis that environment-dependent reduction in maternal care correlates with increased offspring vulnerability to pathology has been scarcely investigated. To test this hypothesis we studied maternal care and offspring development in young, adolescent and young-adult Sprague-Dawley rats reared in a communal nursing situation, characterized by two dams delivering their offspring four days apart and communally caring for them until weaning. We show that dams of the first-born litter show increased aggression towards the pregnant female and that offspring belonging to the second-born litter receive less maternal care compared to older cage-mates. Additionally, second-born rats show increased anxiety-related behavior in a plus-maze test in adolescence and adulthood and abnormal developmental trajectories in terms of social interaction and BDNF levels in the amygdala and hippocampus compared to both the first-born litter and to animal facility reared controls. This is the first indication that adverse environments, not requiring experimenter handling, may reduce maternal care and in turn increase offspring's emotionality and modify social behavior and BDNF developmental trajectories.

Fever is a critical component of the host immune response to infection. An emerging literature demonstrates that experience with infectious organisms early in life, during the perinatal period, may permanently program immune responses later in life, including fever. We explored the influence of neonatal infection with Escherichia coli on fever responses to lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and E. coli in adulthood. Fever to a low dose of LPS in adulthood did not significantly differ as a consequence of early-life infection. Eight days after the LPS injection, the same group of rats received a high dose of live E. coli. This time, neonatally infected rats exhibited a markedly longer fever than controls. In a subsequent experiment, fever to a single high dose of E. coli without prior LPS in adulthood did not differ by group, suggesting that the previous difference was a lack of tolerance to the dual challenges in early-infected rats. Finally, both groups exhibited decreased tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha and toll-like-receptor (TLR) 4 production to dual LPS challenges in isolated splenocytes, whereas only rats infected as neonates exhibited increased cyclooxygenase-2 within the hypothalamus in response to adult infection, suggesting that early infection-induced changes in fever regulation may involve a change in central mechanisms. Taken together, these data indicate that early-life infection is associated with marked changes in host temperature regulation in adulthood.
Reingold and Rayner (2006) showed that the visual contrast of a fixated target word influenced its viewing duration, but not the viewing of the next (posttarget) word in the text that was shown in regular contrast. Configurational target changes, by contrast, influenced target and posttarget viewing. The current study examined whether this effect pattern can be attributed to differential processing of the posttarget word during target viewing. A boundary paradigm (Rayner, 1975) was used to provide an informative or uninformative posttarget preview and to reveal the word when it was fixated. Consistent with the earlier study, more time was spent viewing the target when its visual contrast was low and its configuration unfamiliar. Critically, target contrast had no effect on the acquisition of useful information from a posttarget preview, but an unfamiliar target configuration diminished the usefulness of an informative posttarget preview. These findings are consistent with Reingold and Rayner's (2006) claim that saccade programming and attention shifting during reading can be controlled by functionally distinct word recognition processes.

Serum gamma-glutamyltransferase (GGT) is recommended as a marker for alcohol use disorders by the Swedish National Guidelines for Addiction, although it has a low sensitivity and specificity. GGT is inexpensive and easily accessible but additional knowledge is required on how to use the marker in patients with various levels of alcohol intake. Levels of GGT were obtained from 37 male social drinkers (&lt; 100 grams pure alcohol weekly) and 18 former alcohol-dependent males with long-term (6 +/- 5 years) abstinence. Reproducibility was calculated through repeated blood samplings. Mean serum activity of GGT, in former alcohol-dependent males, was 0.26 microkat/L with an intra-class correlation coefficient of 0.85. In social drinkers, these figures were 0.34 microkat/L and 0.92, respectively. In treatment of males, with the goal of abstinence, upper reference limit is suggested to be 0.40 microkat/L. Goals of non-harmful drinking (&lt; 100 grams weekly) suggest higher limits (0.62 microkat/L). Thirty percent increase of GGT should be suggestive of relapse.
Cluster headache is a rare yet exquisitely painful primary headache disorder occurring in either episodic or chronic patterns. The unique feature of cluster headache is the distinctive circadian and circannual periodicity in the episodic forms. The attacks are stereotypic--they are of extreme intensity and short duration, occur unilaterally, and are associated with robust signs and symptoms of autonomic dysfunction. Although the pathophysiology of cluster headache remains to be fully understood, there have been a number of recent seminal observations. To exclude structural mimics, patients presenting with symptoms suggestive of cluster headache warrant at least a brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan in their work-up. The medical treatment of cluster headache includes acute, transitional, and maintenance prophylaxis. Agents used for acute therapy include inhalation of oxygen, triptans, such as sumatriptan, and dihydroergotamine. Transitional prophylaxis refers to the short-term use of fast-acting agents. This typically involves either corticosteroids or an occipital nerve block. The mainstay of prophylactic therapy is verapamil. Yet, other medications, including lithium, divalproex sodium, topiramate, methysergide, gabapentin, and even indomethacin, may be useful when the headache fails to respond to verapamil. For medically refractory patients, surgical interventions, occipital nerve stimulation, and deep brain stimulation remain an option. As the sophistication of functional neuroimaging increases, better insight into the pathophysiological mechanisms that underlie cluster headache is expected.
Migraine-associated vertigo has become a well-recognized disease entity diagnosed based on a clinical history of recurrent vertigo attacks unexplained by other central or peripheral otologic abnormalities, which occurs in the patient with a history of migraine headaches. There is no international agreement on what spectrum of symptoms should be covered under this diagnosis, or what terminology should be used. The headaches and vestibular symptoms of migraine-associated vertigo may not be temporally associated, which often obscures the association. Diagnostic tests usually show nonspecific abnormalities that are also seen in patients with migraine who do not experience vestibular symptoms. Management generally follows the recommended treatment of migraine headaches, and includes dietary and lifestyle modifications and medical treatment with beta blockers, calcium channel blockers, and tricyclic amines. Small case series show that acetazolamide and lamotrigine appear to be more effective for the vertigo attacks than headaches. Vestibular rehabilitation has also been shown to be helpful in several studies. In this review, the epidemiologic and clinical features of the disorder, as well as the current state of knowledge on pathophysiology, diagnostic testing, and treatment are described.
Chronic daily headache (CDH) is a descriptive term that encompasses multiple headache diagnoses and affects approximately 4% of the general adult population. Chronic daily headache results in significant pain and suffering with substantial impact on quality of life, and enormous economic costs to society. Although most patients with primary CDH suffer from chronic migraine or chronic tension-type headache, other primary and secondary headache disorders can also manifest as a CDH syndrome. For CDH management to succeed, secondary headaches need to be ruled out with proper investigations when judged necessary. If the diagnosis of primary CDH is established, diagnosis of the specific CDH subtype is imperative to institute appropriate treatment. The diagnosis and management of distinct CDH entities, chronic migraine, chronic tension-type headache, new daily persistent headache, and hemicrania continua, are the primary forms of CDH and the emphasis of this review. Although, strictly speaking, medication overuse headache is a secondary form of CDH, it is also highlighted in this review given its frequent association with primary CDH.
Optimum acute treatment of migraine requires prevention of headache as a top priority. Recognition of the multitude of migraine presentations, the frequency of total headache attacks, and number of days of headache disability are critical. Successful treatment requires excellent patient-clinician communication enhancing confidence and mutual trust based on patient needs and preferences. Optimum management of acute migraine nearly always requires pharmacologic treatment for rapid resolution. Migraine-specific triptans, dihydroergotamine, and several antiinflammatories have substantial empirical clinical efficacy. Older nonspecific drugs, particularly butalbital and opioids, contribute to medication overuse headache and are to be avoided. Clinicians should utilize evidence-based acute migraine-specific therapy stressing the imperative acute treatment goal of early intervention, but not too often with the correct drug, formulation, and dose. This therapy needs to provide cost-effective fast results, meaningful to the patient while minimizing the need for additional drugs. Migraine-ACT evaluates 2-hour pain freedom with return to normal function, comfort with treatment, and consistency of response. Employ a thoroughly educated patient, formulary, testimonials, stratification, and rational cotherapy against the race to central sensitization for optimum outcomes.


Throughout the social work profession, there is ongoing interest in building a social science agenda that can address the complex practice-based questions faced by social work professionals today. Methodological innovations and unique funding opportunities have already significantly advanced research on social work practice. Still, there is enthusiastic discussion of how to ensure that such capacity development helps the profession move forward in ways that make use of the biological sciences and that facilitate social work-specific contributions to the larger interdisciplinary scientific community. This article describes how the social work profession can make use of biomedical knowledge and technological advances from social neuroscience to inform psychosocial treatment development, and it illustrates an application to social work practice by giving an example of a substance abuse treatment development process built on social neuroscientific research.
STUDY DESIGN.: Retrospective cohort study. OBJECTIVE.: To identify predictors of early mortality following traumatic spinal cord injury (TSCI). SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA.: Limited information is available on factors associated with early mortality following TSCI. Ability to identify high risk individuals can help to appropriately treat them, and reduce mortality. METHODS.: Early mortality was defined as death occurring during the initial hospital admission. Retrospective analysis of 1995 patients with TSCI, admitted to various hospitals of South Carolina from 1993 to 2003, was performed. There were 251 patients with early mortality. Multivariable logistic regression was used in modeling of early death following TSCI with gender, race, age, Frankel grade, trauma center, level of injury, injury severity score (ISS), traumatic brain injury (TBI), and medical comorbidities as covariates. RESULTS.: Increasing age after 20 years (OR: 1.2, P = &lt;0.0001), male gender (OR: 1.6, P = 0.016), severe (ISS &gt; or =15) systemic injuries (OR: 1.9, P = 0.012), TBI (OR: 3.7, P &lt; 0.0001), 1 or more comorbidities (P &lt; 0.0001), poor neurologic status (P = 0.015), and level 1 trauma center (OR: 1.4, P = 0.026) were significantly associated with early mortality, after adjusting for other covariates. CONCLUSION.: Early mortality following TSCI is influenced by multiple factors. Timely recognition of these factors is crucial for improving survival in the acute care setting. Severe systemic injuries, medical comorbidities, and TBI continue to be the main limiting factors affecting the outcome. These findings also suggest the need to allocate resources for trauma prevention, and promote research towards improving the care of acutely injured patients.
As with phrenology and the polygraph, society is again confronted with a device that the media claims is capable of reading our minds. Functional magnetic resonance imaging (&quot;fMRI&quot;), along with other types of functional brain imaging technologies, is currently being introduced at various stages of a criminal trial as evidence of a defendant's past mental state. This Article demonstrates that functional brain images should not currently be admitted as evidence into courts for this purpose. Using the analytical framework provided by Federal Rule of Evidence 403 as a threshold to a Daubert/Frye analysis, we demonstrate that, when fMRI methodology is properly understood, brain images are only minimally probative of a defendant's past mental states and are almost certainly more unfairly prejudicial than probative on balance. Careful and detailed explanation of the underlying science separates this Article from others, which have tended to paint fMRI with a gloss of credibility and certainty for all courtroom-relevant applications. Instead, we argue that this technology may present a particularly strong form of unfair prejudice in addition to its potential to mislead jurors and waste the court's resources. Finally, since fMRI methodology may one day improve such that its probative value is no longer eclipsed by its extreme potential for unfair prejudice, we offer a nonexhaustive checklist that judges and counsel can use to authenticate functional brain images and assess the weight these images are to be accorded by fact finders.



[(11)C]-(+)-PHNO is a new dopamine D(2/3) receptor agonist radiotracer which has been successfully used to measure D(2/3) receptor availability in experimental animals and man. Here we report in vivo evaluation in the rat of the biodistribution, metabolism, specificity, selectivity, and dopamine sensitivity of carbon11-labeled PHNO ([(11)C]-3-PHNO) produced by an alternative radiochemical synthesis method. [(11)C]-3-PHNO showed rapid metabolism and clearance from most peripheral organs and tissues. [(11)C]-3-PHNO, but not its polar metabolite, readily crossed the blood-brain barrier and showed high levels of uptake in the D(2/3)-rich striatum. Pretreatment with unlabeled PHNO and the D(2/3) receptor antagonist raclopride indicated that binding in the striatum was specific and selective to D(2/3) receptors. PET studies in anesthetized rats revealed significant reductions in [(11)C]-3-PHNO binding in the striatum following amphetamine administration, indicating sensitivity to increases in endogenous dopamine concentrations. D(2/3) antagonist pretreatment additionally indicated moderate levels of [(11)C]-3-PHNO specific binding in several extrastriatal brain areas-most notably the olfactory bulbs and tubercles, thalamus, and hypothalamus. Of particular interest, approximately 30% of [(11)C]-3-PHNO signal in the cerebellum-a region often used as a &quot;low-binding&quot; reference region for PET quantification-was attributable to specific signal. These data demonstrate that [(11)C]-3-PHNO shows similar tracer characteristics to [(11)C]-(+)-PHNO, but additionally indicate that radiolabeled PHNO may be used to estimate D(2/3) receptor availability in select extrastriatal brain regions with PET.

This article reviews some of the key factors influencing the accuracy and precision of quantitative metrics derived from diffusion magnetic resonance imaging data. It focuses on the study pipeline beginning at the choice of imaging protocol, through preprocessing and model fitting up to the point of extracting quantitative estimates for subsequent analysis. The aim was to provide the newcomers to the field with sufficient knowledge of how their decisions at each stage along this process might impact on precision and accuracy, to design their study/approach, and to use diffusion tensor magnetic resonance imaging in the clinic. More specifically, emphasis is placed on improving accuracy and precision. I illustrate how careful choices along the way can substantially affect the sample size needed to make an inference from the data.

Arterial spin labeling (ASL) perfusion magnetic resonance imaging has gained wide acceptance for its value in clinical and neuroscience applications during recent years. Its capability for noninvasive and absolute perfusion quantification is a key characteristic that makes ASL attractive for many clinical applications. In the present review, we discuss the main parameters or factors that affect the reliability and accuracy of ASL perfusion measurements. Our secondary goal was to outline potential solutions that may improve the reliability and accuracy of ASL in clinical settings. It was found that, through theoretical analyses, flow quantification is most sensitive to tagging efficiency and estimation of the equilibrium magnetization of blood signal (M(0b)). Variations of blood T1 have a greater effect on perfusion quantification than variations of tissue T1. Arterial transit time becomes an influential factor when it is longer than the postlabeling delay time. The T2's of blood and tissue impose minimal effects on perfusion calculation at field strengths equal to or lower than 3.0 T. Subsequently, we proposed various approaches for in vivo estimation or calibration of the above parameters, such as the use of phase-contrast magnetic resonance imaging for calibration of the labeling efficiency as well as the use of inversion recovery TrueFISP (true fast imaging with steady-state precession) sequence for blood T1 mapping. We also list representative clinical cases in which implicit assumptions for ASL perfusion quantification may be violated, such as the venous outflow effect in children with sickle cell disease. Finally, an optimal imaging protocol including in vivo measurements of several critical parameters was recommended for clinical ASL studies.
The Rab family belongs to the Ras-like small GTPase superfamily and is implicated in membrane trafficking through interaction with specific effector molecules. Because of the large number of Rab isoforms in mammals, however, the effectors of most of the mammalian Rabs are yet to be identified. In this study, we systematically screened five different cell or tissue lysates for novel Rab effectors by a combination of glutathione S-transferase (GST) pull-down assay with 60 different mammalian Rabs and mass spectroscopic analysis. Three of the 21 Rab-binding proteins we identified, mKIAA1055/TBC1D2B (Rab22-binding protein), GAPCenA/TBC1D11 (Rab36-binding protein) and centaurin beta2/ACAP2 (Rab35-binding protein), are GTPase-activating proteins (GAPs) for Rab or Arf. Although it has recently been proposed that the Rab-GAP (Tre-2 /Bub2/Cdc16) domain physically interacts with its substrate Rab, these three GAPs interacted with specific Rabs via a domain other than a GAP domain, e.g. centaurin beta2 binds GTP-Rab35 via the ankyrin repeat (ANKR) domain. Although centaurin beta2 did not exhibit any Rab35-GAP activity in vitro, the Rab35-binding ANKR domain of centaurin beta2 was found to be required for its plasma membrane localization and regulation of Rab35-dependent neurite outgrowth of PC12 cells through inactivation of Arf6. These findings suggest a novel mode of interaction between Rab and GAP.
Previous studies have shown that key enzymes involved in lipid metabolic pathways are differentially expressed in normal compared with tumor tissues. However, the precise role played by dysregulated expression of lipid metabolic enzymes and altered lipid homeostasis in carcinogenesis remains to be established. Fatty acid synthase is overexpressed in a variety of cancers, including breast and prostate. The purpose of the present study was to examine the expression patterns of additional lipid metabolic enzymes in human breast and prostate cancers. This was accomplished by analysis of published expression databases, with confirmation by immunoblot assays. Our results indicate that the fatty acid-activating enzyme, long-chain fatty acyl-CoA synthetase 4 (ACSL4), is differentially expressed in human breast cancer as a function of estrogen receptor alpha (ER) status. In 10 separate studies, ACSL4 messenger RNA (mRNA) was overexpressed in ER-negative breast tumors. Of 50 breast cancer cell lines examined, 17 (89%) of 19 ER-positive lines were negative for ACSL4 mRNA expression and 20 (65%) of 31 ER-negative lines expressed ACSL4 mRNA. The inverse relationship between ER expression and ACSL4 expression was also observed for androgen receptor status in both breast and prostate cancers. Furthermore, loss of steroid hormone sensitivity, such as that observed in Raf1-transfected MCF-7 cells and LNCaP-AI cells, was associated with induction of ACSL4 expression. Ablation of ACSL4 expression inMDA-MB-231 breast cancer cells had no effect on cell proliferation; however, sensitivity to the cytotoxic effects of triacsin C was increased three-fold in the cells lacking ACSL4.
Traditionally studies of brain function have focused on task-evoked responses. By their very nature, such experiments tacitly encourage a reflexive view of brain function. Although such an approach has been remarkably productive, it ignores the alternative possibility that brain functions are mainly intrinsic, involving information processing for interpreting, responding to and predicting environmental demands. Here I argue that the latter view best captures the essence of brain function, a position that accords well with the allocation of the brain's energy resources. Recognizing the importance of intrinsic activity will require integrating knowledge from cognitive and systems neuroscience with cellular and molecular neuroscience where ion channels, receptors, components of signal transduction and metabolic pathways are all in a constant state of flux.
Axonal degeneration causes morbidity in many neurological conditions including stroke, neurotrauma and multiple sclerosis. The limited ability of central nervous system (CNS) neurons to regenerate, combined with the observation that axonal damage causes clinical disability, has spurred efforts to investigate the mechanisms of axonal degeneration. Ca influx from outside the axon is a key mediator of injury. More recently, substantial pools of intra-axonal Ca sequestered in the 'axoplasmic reticulum' have been reported. These Ca stores are under the control of multimolecular 'nanocomplexes' located along the internodes under the myelin. The overactivation of these complexes during disease can lead to a lethal release of Ca from intra-axonal stores. Rich receptor pharmacology offers tantalizing therapeutic options targeting these nanocomplexes in the many diseases where axonal degeneration is prominent.
The interplay of transcription factors and epigenetic modifiers, including histone modifications, DNA methylation and microRNAs during development is essential for the acquisition of specific cell fates. Here, we review the epigenetic &quot;programming&quot; of stem cells into oligodendrocytes, by analyzing three sequential stages of lineage progression. The first transition from pluripotent stem cells to neural precursors is characterized by repression of pluripotency genes and restriction of the lineage potential to the neural fate. The second transition from multipotential precursors to oligodendrocyte progenitors is associated with the progressive loss of plasticity and the repression of neuronal and astrocytic genes. The last step of differentiation of oligodendrocyte progenitors into myelin-forming cells is defined by a model of derepression of myelin genes.
Voltage-activated sodium (Nav) channels are essential in generating and propagating nerve impulses, placing them amongst the most widely targeted ion channels by toxins from venomous organisms. An increasing number of spider toxins have been shown to interfere with the voltage-driven activation process of mammalian Nav channels, possibly by interacting with one or more of their voltage sensors. This review focuses on our existing knowledge of the mechanism by which spider toxins affect Nav channel gating and the possible applications of these toxins in the drug discovery process.
It is over forty years since the major neurotransmitters and their protein receptors were identified, and over twenty years since determination of the first amino-acid sequences of the Cys-loop receptors that recognize acetylcholine, serotonin, GABA and glycine. The last decade has seen the first structures of these proteins (and related bacterial and molluscan homologues) determined to atomic resolution. Hopefully over the next decade, more detailed molecular structures of entire Cys-loop receptors in drug-bound and drug-free conformations will become available. These, together with functional studies, will provide a clear picture of how these receptors participate in neurotransmission and how structural variations between receptor subtypes impart their unique characteristics. This insight should facilitate the design of novel and improved therapeutics to treat neurological disorders. This review considers our current understanding about the processes of agonist binding, receptor activation and channel opening, as well as allosteric modulation of the Cys-loop receptor family.


As a clinical medication for the treatment of hyperkinetic movement disorders, in conditions such as Huntington's disease, tetrabenazine (TBZ) has been always used in its racemic form. To establish whether or not its beneficial therapeutic actions are enantiospecific, a practical total synthetic route was developed to yield each enantiomeric form to allow their chemical and pharmacological characterization. We briefly summarize the total synthesis of TBZ and report a detailed procedure for resolution of TBZ into its enantiomers, (+)-TBZ and (-)-TBZ. This allowed determination of the optical rotation and absolute configurations of each TBZ enantiomer, based on X-ray crystallographic analysis, together with characterization of their inhibitory action at the vesicular monoamine transporter 2, where (+)-TBZ proved three-fold more active than (-)-TBZ.
Serotonergic fibres have a pervasive innervation of hypoxic-ischemic (HI)-affected areas in the neonatal brain and serotonin (5-HT) is pivotal in numerous neurobehaviours that match many HI-induced deficits. However, little is known about how neonatal HI affects the serotonergic system. We therefore examined whether neonatal HI can alter numbers of serotonergic raphe neurons in specific sub-divisions of the midbrain and brainstem since these nuclei are the primary sources of serotonin throughout the central nervous system (CNS). We utilised an established neonatal HI model in the postnatal day 3 (P3) rat pup (right common carotid artery ligation+30min 6% O2) and determined the effects of P3 HI on 5-HT counts in 5 raphe sub-divisions in the midbrain and brainstem one and six weeks later. After P3 HI, numbers of 5-HT-positive neurons were significantly decreased in the dorsal raphe dorsal, dorsal raphe ventrolateral and dorsal raphe caudal nuclei on P10 but only in the dorsal raphe dorsal and dorsal raphe ventrolateral nuclei on P45. In contrast, P3 HI did not alter counts in the dorsal raphe interfascicular and raphe magnus nuclei. We also discovered that P3 HI significantly reduces brainstem SERT protein expression; the key regulator of 5-HT in the CNS. In conclusion, neonatal HI injury caused significant disruption of the brainstem serotonergic system that can persist for up to six weeks after the insult. The different vulnerabilities of serotonergic populations in specific raphe nuclei suggest that certain raphe nuclei may underpin neurological deficits in HI-affected neonates through to adulthood.
Sensory information from the external world is inherently ambiguous, necessitating prior experience as a constraint on perception. Recent experience with clear, prototypical stimuli may, however, induce complex effects on the subsequent perception of ambiguous ones, ranging from attraction (priming) to repulsion (adaptation aftereffects). In the present study, we ask what determines the direction and magnitude of the effects in the case of images of naturalistic (complex) objects, which are putatively analyzed in advanced visual cortices and under the influence of multimodal semantic memories. We find a basic crossover from adaptation aftereffects to priming effects as the delay lengthens between experiencing a prototype and seeing the ambiguous stimulus. Adaptation aftereffects appear as a shift in the perceptual boundary between distinct object images, which vanishes with time, unmasking an overall and temporally sustained priming bias. A similar attractive bias occurs when the original adapter is substituted by an ambiguous image.
&quot;How is information decoded in the brain?&quot; is one of the most difficult and important questions in neuroscience. We have developed a general framework for investigating to what extent the decoding process in the brain can be simplified. First, we hierarchically constructed simplified probabilistic models of neural responses that ignore more than Kth-order correlations using the maximum entropy principle. We then computed how much information is lost when information is decoded using these simplified probabilistic models (i.e., &quot;mismatched decoders&quot;). To evaluate the information obtained by mismatched decoders, we introduced an information theoretic quantity, I*, which was derived by extending the mutual information in terms of communication rate across a channel. We showed that I* provides consistent results with the minimum mean-square error as well as the mutual information, and demonstrated that a previously proposed measure quantifying the importance of correlations in decoding substantially deviates from I* when many cells are analyzed. We then applied this proposed framework to spike data for vertebrate retina using short natural scene movies of 100 ms duration as a set of stimuli and computing the information contained in neural activities. Although significant correlations were observed in population activities of ganglion cells, information loss was negligibly small even if all orders of correlation were ignored in decoding. We also found that, if we inappropriately assumed stationarity for long durations in the information analysis of dynamically changing stimuli, such as natural scene movies, correlations appear to carry a large proportion of total information regardless of their actual importance.
Peripheral nerve injury causes neuropathic pain, which is characterized by the paradoxical sensations of positive and negative symptoms. Clinically, negative signs are frequently observed; however, their underlying molecular mechanisms are largely unknown. Dysfunction of C-fibers is assumed to underlie negative symptoms and is accompanied by long-lasting downregulation of Na(v)1.8 sodium channel and mu-opioid receptor (MOP) in the dorsal root ganglion (DRG). In the present study, we found that nerve injury upregulates neuron-restrictive silencer factor (NRSF) expression in the DRG neurons mediated through epigenetic mechanisms. In addition, chromatin immunoprecipitation analysis revealed that nerve injury promotes NRSF binding to the neuron-restrictive silencer element within MOP and Na(v)1.8 genes, thereby causing epigenetic silencing. Furthermore, NRSF knockdown significantly blocked nerve injury-induced downregulations of MOP and Na(v)1.8 gene expressions, C-fiber hypoesthesia, and the losses of peripheral morphine analgesia and Na(v)1.8-selective blocker-induced hypoesthesia. Together, these data suggest that NRSF causes pathological and pharmacological dysfunction of C-fibers, which underlies the negative symptoms in neuropathic pain.
A recent study proposed that differentiation of dopaminergic neurons requires a conserved &quot;dopamine motif&quot; (DA-motif) that functions as a binding site for ETS DNA binding domain transcription factors. In the mammalian olfactory bulb (OB), the expression of a set of five genes [including tyrosine hydroxylase (Th)] that are necessary for differentiation of dopaminergic neurons was suggested to be regulated by the ETS-domain transcription factor ER81 via the DA-motif. To investigate this putative regulatory role of ER81, expression levels of these five genes were compared in both olfactory bulbs of adult wild-type mice subjected to unilateral naris closure and the olfactory bulbs of neonatal Er81 wild-type and mutant mice. These studies found that ER81 was necessary only for Th expression and not the other cassette genes. Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) and electrophoretic mobility shift assays (EMSA) experiments showed that ER81 bound directly to a consensus binding site/DA-motif in the rodent Th proximal promoter. However, the ER81 binding site/DA-motif in the Th proximal promoter is poorly conserved in other mammals. Both ChIP assays with canine OB tissue and EMSA experiments with the human Th proximal promoter did not detect ER81 binding to the Th DA-motif from these species. These results suggest that regulation of Th expression by the direct binding of ER81 to the Th promoter is a species-specific mechanism. These findings indicate that ER81 is not necessary for expression of the OB dopaminergic gene cassette and that the DA-motif is not involved in differentiation of the mammalian OB dopaminergic phenotype.
A major barrier to regeneration of CNS axons is the presence of growth-inhibitory proteins associated with myelin and the glial scar. To identify chemical compounds with the ability to overcome the inhibition of regeneration, we screened a novel triazine library, based on the ability of compounds to increase neurite outgrowth from cerebellar neurons on inhibitory myelin substrates. The screen produced four &quot;hit compounds,&quot; which act with nanomolar potency on several different neuronal types and on several distinct substrates relevant to glial inhibition. Moreover, the compounds selectively overcome inhibition rather than promote growth in general. The compounds do not affect neuronal cAMP levels, PKC activity, or EGFR (epidermal growth factor receptor) activation. Interestingly, one of the compounds alters microtubule dynamics and increases microtubule density in both fibroblasts and neurons. This same compound promotes regeneration of dorsal column axons after acute lesions and potentiates regeneration of optic nerve axons after nerve crush in vivo. These compounds should provide insight into the mechanisms through which glial-derived inhibitors of regeneration act, and could lead to the development of novel therapies for CNS injury.
Despite their therapeutic potential, progress in generating fully differentiated forebrain neurons from embryonic stem cells (ESCs) has lagged behind that from more caudal regions of the neuraxis. GABAergic interneuron precursors have the remarkable ability to migrate extensively and survive after transplantation into postnatal cortex, making them an attractive candidate for use in cell-based therapy for seizures or other neuropsychiatric disorders. We have modified a mouse ESC line with an Lhx6-GFP reporter construct that allows for the isolation of newly generated cortical interneuron precursors. When transplanted into postnatal cortex, these cells can migrate into the cortical parenchyma, survive for months, and display morphological, neurochemical, and electrophysiological properties characteristic of mature interneurons. This work demonstrates that forebrain neuronal subtypes with complex traits can be generated from embryonic stem cells, and provides a novel approach to the study of cortical interneuron development and to the establishment of cell-based therapies for neurological disease.
Clinical pain conditions may remain responsive to opiate analgesics for extended periods, but such persistent acute pain can undergo a transition to an opiate-resistant chronic pain state that becomes a much more serious clinical problem. To test the hypothesis that cellular mechanisms of chronic pain in the primary afferent also contribute to the development of opiate resistance, we used a recently developed model of the transition of from acute to chronic pain, hyperalgesic priming. Repeated intradermal administration of the potent and highly selective mu-opioid agonist, [d-Ala(2),N-MePhe(4),gly-ol]-enkephalin (DAMGO), to produce tolerance for its inhibition of prostaglandin E(2) hyperalgesia, simultaneously produced hyperalgesic priming. Conversely, injection of an inflammogen, carrageenan, used to produce priming produced DAMGO tolerance. Both effects were prevented by inhibition of protein kinase Cepsilon (PKCepsilon). Carrageenan also induced opioid dependence, manifest as mu-opioid receptor antagonist (d-Phe-Cys-Tyr-d-Trp-Orn-Thr-Pen-Thr-NH(2))-induced hyperalgesia that, like priming, was PKCepsilon and G(i) dependent. These findings suggest that the transition from acute to chronic pain, and development of mu-opioid receptor tolerance and dependence may be linked by common cellular mechanisms in the primary afferent.
NMDA receptors (NMDARs) are key mediators of certain forms of synaptic plasticity and learning. NMDAR complexes are heteromers composed of an obligatory GluN1 subunit and one or more GluN2 (GluN2A-GluN2D) subunits. Different subunits confer distinct physiological and molecular properties to NMDARs, but their contribution to synaptic plasticity and learning in the adult brain remains uncertain. Here, we generated mice lacking GluN2B in pyramidal neurons of cortex and CA1 subregion of hippocampus. We found that hippocampal principal neurons of adult GluN2B mutants had faster decaying NMDAR-mediated EPSCs than nonmutant controls and were insensitive to GluN2B but not NMDAR antagonism. A subsaturating form of hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP) was impaired in the mutants, whereas a saturating form of LTP was intact. An NMDAR-dependent form of long-term depression (LTD) produced by low-frequency stimulation combined with glutamate transporter inhibition was abolished in the mutants. Additionally, mutants exhibited decreased dendritic spine density in CA1 hippocampal neurons compared with controls. On multiple assays for corticohippocampal-mediated learning and memory (hidden platform Morris water maze, T-maze spontaneous alternation, and pavlovian trace fear conditioning), mutants were impaired. These data further demonstrate the importance of GluN2B for synaptic plasticity in the adult hippocampus and suggest a particularly critical role in LTD, at least the form studied here. The finding that loss of GluN2B was sufficient to cause learning deficits illustrates the contribution of GluN2B-mediated forms of plasticity to memory formation, with implications for elucidating NMDAR-related dysfunction in disease-related cognitive impairment.
In the adult mammalian brain, the subventricular zone (SVZ) hosts stem cells constantly generating new neurons. Angiopoietin-1 (Ang-1) is an endothelial growth factor with a critical role in division, survival, and adhesion of endothelial cells via Tie-2 receptor activity. Expression of Tie-2 in nonendothelial cells, especially neurons and stem cells, suggests that Ang-1 may be involved in neurogenesis. In the present work, we investigated the putative role of Ang-1 on SVZ neurogenesis. Immature cells from SVZ-derived neurospheres express Ang-1 and Tie-2 mRNA, suggesting a role for the Ang-1/Tie-2 system in the neurogenic niche. Moreover, we also found that Tie-2 protein expression is retained on differentiation in neurons and glial cells. Ang-1 triggered proliferation via activation of the ERK1/2 (extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2) mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) kinase pathway but did not induce cell death. Accordingly, coincubation with an anti-Tie-2 neutralizing antibody prevented the pro-proliferative effect of Ang-1. Furthermore, Ang-1 increased the number of NeuN (neuronal nuclear protein)-positive neurons in cultures treated for 7 d, as well as the number of functional neurons, as assessed by monitoring [Ca(2+)](i) rises after application of specific stimuli for neurons and immature cells. The proneurogenic effect of Ang-1 is mediated by Tie-2 activation and subsequent mTOR (mammalian target of rapamycin kinase) mobilization. In agreement, neuronal differentiation significantly decreased after exposure to an anti-Tie-2 neutralizing antibody and to rapamycin. Moreover, Ang-1 elicited the activation of the SAPK (stress-activated protein kinase)/JNK (c-Jun N-terminal kinase) MAPK, involved in axonogenesis. Our work shows a proneurogenic effect of Ang-1, highlighting the relevance of blood vessel/stem cell cross talk in health and disease.
A central question in insect chemoreception is whether signaling occurs via G-proteins. Two families of seven-transmembrane-domain chemoreceptors, the odor (Or) and gustatory receptor (Gr) families, have been identified in Drosophila (Clyne et al., 1999, 2000; Vosshall et al., 1999). Ors mediate odor responses, whereas two Grs, Gr21a and Gr63a, mediate CO2 response (Hallem et al., 2004; Jones et al., 2007; Kwon et al., 2007). Using single-sensillum recordings, we systematically investigate the role of Galpha proteins in vivo, initially with RNA interference constructs, competitive peptides, and constitutively active Galpha proteins. The results do not support a role for Galpha proteins in odor sensitivity. In parallel experiments, manipulations of Galpha(q), but not other Galpha proteins, affected CO2 response. Transient, conditional, and ectopic expression analyses consistently supported a role for Galpha(q) in the response of CO2-sensing neurons, but not odor-sensing neurons. Genetic mosaic analysis confirmed that odor responses are normal in the absence of Galpha(q). Ggamma30A is also required for normal CO2 response. The simplest interpretation of these results is that Galpha(q) and Ggamma30A play a role in the response of CO2-sensing neurons, but are not required for Or-mediated odor signaling.
Attending to a specific spatial location modulates responsivity of neurons with receptive fields processing that part of the environment. A major outstanding question is whether attentional modulation operates differently for the foveal (central) representation of the visual field than it does for the periphery. Indeed, recent animal electrophysiological recordings suggest that attention differentially affects spatial integration for central and peripheral receptive fields in primary visual cortex. In human electroencephalographic recordings, spatial attention to peripheral locations robustly modulates activity in early visual regions, but it has been claimed that this mechanism does not operate in foveal vision. Here, however, we show clear early attentional modulation of foveal stimulation with the same timing and cortical sources as seen for peripheral stimuli, demonstrating that attentional gain control operates similarly across the entire field of view. These results imply that covertly attending away from the center of gaze, which is a common paradigm in behavioral and electrophysiological studies of attention, results in a precisely timed push-pull mechanism. While the amplitude of the initial response to stimulation at attended peripheral locations is significantly increased beginning at 80 ms, the amplitude of the response to foveal stimulation begins to be attenuated.

With each eye movement, the image received by the visual system changes drastically. To maintain stable spatiotopic (world-centered) representations, the relevant retinotopic (eye-centered) coordinates must be continually updated. Although updating or remapping of visual scene representations can occur very rapidly, J. D. Golomb, M. M. Chun, and J. A. Mazer (2008) demonstrated that representations of sustained attention update more slowly than the remapping literature would predict; attentional benefits at previously attended retinotopic locations linger after completion of the saccade, even when this location is no longer behaviorally relevant. The present study explores the robustness of this &quot;retinotopic attentional trace.&quot; We report significant retinotopic facilitation despite attempts to eliminate or reduce it by enhancing spatiotopic reference frames with permanent visual cues in the stimulus display and by introducing a different task where the attended location is the saccade target itself. Our results support and extend our earlier model of native retinotopically organized salience maps that must be dynamically updated to reflect the task-relevant spatiotopic location with each saccade. Consistent with the idea that attentional facilitation arises from persistent, recurrent neural activity, it takes measurable time for this facilitation to decay, leaving behind a retinotopic attentional trace after the saccade has been executed, regardless of conflicting task demands.
Earlier studies identify a region in the left fusiform gyrus that responds selectively to visual words, termed the visual word form area (VWFA). Converging evidence suggests that the VWFA is wired up largely by language experience. Here we asked whether general associative experience without explicit language learning accounts for the selectivity of the VWFA. Specifically, we trained individuals to associate novel stimuli with objects. We found that the blood oxygen level-dependent response of the VWFA to the trained stimuli was significantly higher than that of visually similar but untrained stimuli. No learning effects were found in the face-selective and object-selective regions. Our study illuminates that the plasticity of the VWFA can be shaped by associative learning without language experience.
Men and women differ in cerebral organization and prevalence rates of eating disorders. However, no studies have yet examined sex differences in cerebral responses to the caloric content of food images. Sixteen healthy adults (eight men; eight women) underwent functional magnetic resonance imaging while viewing images of high-calorie and low-calorie foods. Compared with men, women showed significantly greater activation to calorie-rich foods within dorsolateral, ventrolateral, and ventromedial prefrontal cortex, middle/posterior cingulate, and insula. Men failed to show greater activation in any cortical region compared with women, although amygdala responses were greater in men at a more liberal threshold. When viewing high-calorie food images, women seem more responsive than men within cortical regions involved in behavioral control and self-referential cognition.
Whether emotional distracters call for attentional resources has been discussed in several studies. We have earlier shown that brief unpleasant distracters captured right hemisphere (RH) attentional resources as evidenced with reduced event-related potential responses and increased reaction times to nonemotional left visual field/RH targets. The aim of this study was to investigate whether emotional distracters selectively interfere with processes predominantly relying on the RH such as processing global visual features. Evoked potentials were recorded from 18 participants carrying out a visual discrimination task engaging global RH and local left hemisphere-dependent processes. Unpleasant distracters reduced global target detection-related right parietal activity. We conclude that brief unpleasant distracters compete for RH attentional resources with global level processing.
It was shown earlier that, in Japanese quail the mechanism controlling the induction by testosterone of aromatase activity develops between embryonic days 10 and 14. The cellular processes underlying this activation have, however, not been investigated in detail. Here, we demonstrate that the increase in aromatase activity observed in neonates treated with testosterone propionate between postnatal days 1 and 3 results from the recruitment of additional populations of aromatase-immunoreactive cells that were not expressing the enzyme at detectable levels before. This recruitment concerns all brain nuclei normally expressing the enzyme even if it is more prominent in the ventromedial hypothalamus than in other nuclei.
Extracellular and whole-cell light-evoked responses of mouse retinal ganglion cells were recorded in the presence of the mGluR8 selective agonist, (S)-3,4-dicarboxy-phenylglycine (DCPG). Off-light responses were reversibly reduced in the presence of DCPG in wild-type but not in mGluR8-deficient retinas. On-responses were only marginally modulated by DCPG. During Off-responses, DCPG suppressed both excitatory and inhibitory synaptic conductances suggesting that mGluR8 receptor activity reduces glutamate release from bipolar cell terminals and possibly also the release of an inhibitory neurotransmitter from amacrine cell processes.
Signaling through nicotinic acetylcholine (nACh) receptors underlies a diverse array of behaviors. In order for appropriate signaling to occur via nACh receptors, it is necessary for the genes encoding the receptor subunits to be expressed in a highly regulated temporal and spatial manner. Here we report a transgenic mouse approach to characterize the transcriptional regulation of the gene encoding the nACh receptor beta4 subunit. nACh receptors containing this subunit play critical roles in both the central and peripheral nervous systems. We demonstrate that a 2.3-kilobase pair fragment of the beta4 5'-flanking region is capable of directing reporter gene expression in transgenic animals. Importantly, the transcriptional activity of the promoter region is cell-type-specific and developmentally regulated and overlaps to a great extent with endogenous beta4 mRNA expression. These data indicate that the 2.3-kilobase pair fragment contains transcriptional regulatory elements critical for appropriate beta4 subunit gene expression.
Adriamycin (ADR) is a chemotherapeutic for the treatment of solid tumors. This quinone-containing anthracycline is well known to produce large amounts of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in vivo. A common complaint of patients undergoing long-term treatment with ADR is somnolence, often referred to as &quot;chemobrain.&quot; While ADR itself does not cross the blood brain barrier (BBB), we recently showed that ADR administration causes a peripheral increase in tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha), which migrates across the BBB and leads to inflammation and oxidative stress in brain, most likely contributing to the observed decline in cognition. In the current study, we measured levels of the antioxidant glutathione (GSH) in brains of mice injected intraparitoneally (i.p.) with ADR, as well as the levels and activities of several enzymes involved in brain GSH metabolism. We observed significantly decreased GSH levels, as well as altered GSH/GSSG ratio in brains of ADR treated mice relative to saline-treated controls. Also observed in brains of ADR treated mice were increased levels of glutathione peroxidase (GPx), glutathione-S-transferase (GST), and glutathione reductase (GR). We also observed increased activity of GPx, but a significant reduction in GST and GR activity in mice brain, 72 h post i.p. injection of ADR (20 mg/kg body weight). Furthermore, we used redox proteomics to identify specific proteins that are oxidized and/or have differential levels in mice brains as a result of a single i.p. injection of ADR. Visinin like protein 1 (VLP1), peptidyl prolyl isomerase 1 (Pin1), and syntaxin 1 (SYNT1) showed differential levels in ADR treated mice relative to saline-treated controls. Triose phosphate isomerase (TPI), enolase, and peroxiredoxin 1 (PRX-1) showed significantly increased specific carbonylation in ADR treated mice brain. These results further support the notion ADR induces oxidative stress in brain despite not crossing the BBB, and that antioxidant intervention may prevent ADR-induced cognitive dysfunction.
Various new 1,5-benzodiazepine compounds were synthesized and tested for their biological activity in terms of effects on GABA(A) receptors of rat cerebellar granules in culture. Their effects were compared to those of a 1,4-benzodiazepine agonist, flunitrazepam and the already known 1,5-benzodiazepine antiepileptic clobazam. The effects were evaluated for the two different GABA(A) receptor populations present in these neurons, one mediating phasic inhibition and the other one mediating tonic inhibition. Many such compounds display a profile of inverse agonist to both GABA(A) receptor populations. One of them presents a profile of full agonist at the component mediating phasic inhibition. Interestingly, substitution of just one oxygen atom in that compound with sulphur in a specific position of a morpholine ring resulted in a remarkable change of activity from full agonist to a probable inverse agonist. This indicates such a position as a proton accepting one for the ligand within the benzodiazepine binding pocket of the relevant GABA(A) receptors. In addition, that position appears to be critical for the pharmacological activity.
The main action of organophosphorous insecticides is generally believed to be the inhibition of acetylcholinesterase (AChE). However, these compounds also inhibit many other enzymes, any of which may play a role in their toxicity. We tested the neurotoxic mechanism of two organophosphorous insecticides, chlorpyrifos and diazinon in primary cortical cultures. Exposure to the insecticides caused a concentration-dependent toxicity that could not be directly attributed to the oxon forms of the compounds which caused little toxicity but strongly inhibited AChE. Addition of 1 mM acetylcholine or carbachol actually attenuated the toxicity of chlorpyrifos and diazinon, and the muscarinic receptor antagonist, atropine, and the nicotinic receptor antagonist, mecamylamine, did not attenuate the toxicity of either insecticide. These results strongly suggest that the organophosphorous toxicity observed in this culture system is not mediated by buildup of extracellular acetylcholine resulting from inhibition of AChE. The toxicity of chlorpyrifos was attenuated by antagonists of either the NMDA or AMPA/kainate-type glutamate receptors, but the cell death was potentiated by the caspase inhibitor ZVAD. Diazinon toxicity was not affected by glutamate receptor antagonists, but was attenuated by ZVAD. Chlorpyrifos induced diffuse nuclear staining characteristic of necrosis, while diazinon induced chromatin condensation characteristic of apoptosis. Also, chlorpyrifos exposure increased the levels of extracellular glutamate, while diazinon did not. The results suggest two different mechanisms of neurotoxicity of the insecticides, neither one of which involved acetylcholine. Chlorpyrifos induced a glutamate-mediated excitotoxicity, while diazinon induced apoptotic neuronal death.
Osmotherapy with 10% hypertonic saline (HS) alleviates cerebral edema through osmotic force. Aquaporin-4 (AQP4) has been reported to be implicated in the pathogenesis of cerebral edema resulting from a variety of brain injury. This study aimed to determine if 10% hypertonic saline ameliorates cerebral edema through downregulation of AQP4 expression in the perivascular astrocytes in the ischemic cerebral edema. Adult male Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats were subjected to permanent right-sided middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) and treated with a continuous i.v. infusion of 10% HS. Brain water content (BWC) analyzed by wet-to-dry ratios in the ischemic hemisphere of SD rats was attenuated after 10% HS treatment. This was coupled with the reduction of neuronal apoptosis in the peri-ischemic brain tissue. Concomitantly, downregulated expression of AQP4 in the perivascular astrocytes after 10% HS treatment was observed. Our results suggest that in addition to its osmotic force, 10% HS exerts anti-edema effects possibly through downregulation of AQP4 expression in the perivascular astrocytes. The reduction of brain edema after 10% HS administration can prevent ischemic brain damage.
The medial septum diagonal band complex (MS/DB) projects via cholinergic and GABAergic pathways to the hippocampus and plays a key role in the hippocampal theta rhythm. In the MS/DB we have previously described a population of fast spiking GABAergic neurons that contain parvalbumin and mediate theta frequency activity in vitro. The Kv3.1 potassium channel is a delayed rectifier channel that plays a major role in fast spiking neurons in the CNS, and has previously been localized in the MS/DB. To determine which cell types in the MS/DB express the Kv3.1b ion channel subunit, transgenic mice in which the expression of GABAergic and glutamate markers are associated with the expression of green fluorescent protein (GFP; GAD67-GFP and VGluT2-GFP mice, respectively) were used for immunofluorescence and axonal tract tracing. Electrophysiological studies were also carried out on rat MS/DB slices to examine the role of the Kv3.1 channel in theta frequency oscillations. The results for the MS/DB were as follows: (1) cholinergic cells did not express GFP in either GAD67-GFP or VGluT2-GFP mice, and there was GAD67 immunoreactivity in GFP-positive neurons in GAD67-GFP mice and in a small proportion (6%) of GFP-positive neurons in VGluT2-GFP mice. (2) Kv3.1b immunofluorescence was associated with the somata of GABAergic neurons, especially those that contained parvalbumin, and with a minority of glutamatergic neurons, but not with cholinergic neurons, and with GABAergic axonal terminal-like processes around certain GABAergic neurons. (3) Both Kv3.1b-positive and -negative GABAergic neurons were septo-hippocampal, and there was a minor projection to hippocampus from VGluT2-GFP neurons. (4) Kainate-induced theta oscillations in the MS/DB slice were potentiated rather than inhibited by the Kv3.1 blocker 4-aminopyridine, and this agent on its own produced theta frequency oscillations in MS/DB slices that were reduced by ionotropic glutamate and GABA receptor antagonists and abolished by low extracellular calcium. These studies confirm the presence of heterogeneous populations of septo-hippocampal neurons in the MS/DB, and suggest that presence of Kv3.1 in the GABAergic neurons does not contribute to theta activity through fast spiking properties, but possibly by the regulation of transmitter release from axonal terminals.
Ketamine, a non-competitive N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist, is associated with accelerated neuronal apoptosis in the developing rodent brain. In this study, postnatal day (PND) 7 rats were treated with 20 mg/kg ketamine or saline in six successive doses (s.c.) at 2-h intervals. Brain frontal cortical areas were collected 6 h after the last dose and RNA isolated and hybridized to Illumina Rat Ref-12 Expression BeadChips containing 22,226 probes. Many of the differentially expressed genes were associated with cell death or differentiation and receptor activity. Ingenuity Pathway Analysis software identified perturbations in NMDA-type glutamate, GABA and dopamine receptor signaling. Quantitative polymerase chain reaction (Q-PCR) confirmed that NMDA receptor subunits were significantly up-regulated. Up-regulation of NMDA receptor mRNA signaling was further confirmed by in situ hybridization. These observations support our working hypothesis that prolonged ketamine exposure produces up-regulation of NMDA receptors and subsequent over-stimulation of the glutamatergic system by endogenous glutamate, triggering enhanced apoptosis in developing neurons.
Learned changes in behavior can be elicited by either appetitive or aversive reinforcers. It is, however, not clear whether the two types of motivation, (approaching appetitive stimuli and avoiding aversive stimuli) drive learning in the same or different ways, nor is their interaction understood in situations where the two types are combined in a single experiment. To investigate this question we have developed a novel learning paradigm for Mongolian gerbils, which not only allows rewards and punishments to be presented in isolation or in combination with each other, but also can use these opposite reinforcers to drive the same learned behavior. Specifically, we studied learning of tone-conditioned hurdle crossing in a shuttle box driven by either an appetitive reinforcer (brain stimulation reward) or an aversive reinforcer (electrical footshock), or by a combination of both. Combination of the two reinforcers potentiated speed of acquisition, led to maximum possible performance, and delayed extinction as compared to either reinforcer alone. Additional experiments, using partial reinforcement protocols and experiments in which one of the reinforcers was omitted after the animals had been previously trained with the combination of both reinforcers, indicated that appetitive and aversive reinforcers operated together but acted in different ways: in this particular experimental context, punishment appeared to be more effective for initial acquisition and reward more effective to maintain a high level of conditioned responses (CRs). The results imply that learning mechanisms in problem solving were maximally effective when the initial punishment of mistakes was combined with the subsequent rewarding of correct performance.
Brain derived nerve factor (BDNF) is a trophic factor belonging to the neurotrophin family. It is upregulated in various inflammatory conditions, where it may contribute to altered pain states. In cystitis, little is known about the relevance of BDNF in bladder-generated noxious input and bladder overactivity, a matter we investigated in the present study. Female rats were intraperitoneally (i.p.) injected with cyclophosphamide (CYP; 200 mg/kg). They received saline or TrkB-Ig(2) via intravenously (i.v.) or intravesical administration. Three days after CYP-injection, animals were anaesthetized and cystometries performed. All animals were perfusion-fixed and the spinal cord segments L6 collected, post-fixed and processed for c-Fos and phosphoERK immunoreactivity. BDNF expression in the bladder, as well as bladder histology, was also assessed. Intravesical TrkB-Ig(2) did not change bladder reflex activity of CYP-injected rats. In CYP-animals treated with i.v. TrkB-Ig(2) a decrease in the frequency of bladder reflex contractions, in comparison with saline-treated animals, was observed. In spinal sections from the latter group of animals, the number of phosphoERK and c-Fos immunoreactive neurons was lower than in sections from saline-treated CYP-animals. BDNF immunoreactivity was higher during cystitis but was not changed by TrkB-Ig(2) i.v. treatment. Evaluation of the bladder histology showed similar inflammatory signs in the bladders of inflamed animals, irrespective of the treatment. Data show that i.v. but not intravesical administration of TrkB-Ig(2) reduced bladder hyperactivity in animals with cystitis to levels comparable to those observed in unirritated rats. Since i.v. TrkB-Ig(2) also reduced spinal extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) activation, it is possible that BDNF contribution to inflammation-induced bladder hyperactivity is via spinal activation of the ERK pathway. Finally, the reduction in c-Fos expression indicates that TrkB-Ig(2) also reduced bladder-generated noxious input. Our results show that sequestration of BDNF may be considered a new therapeutic strategy to treat chronic cystitis.
Some procedures for stimulating arousal in the usual daily rest period (e.g., gentle handling, novel wheel-induced running) can phase shift circadian rhythms in Syrian hamsters, while other arousal procedures are ineffective (inescapable stress, caffeine, modafinil). The dorsal and median raphe nuclei (DRN, MnR) have been implicated in clock resetting by arousal and, in rats and mice, exhibit strong regionally specific responses to inescapable stress and anxiogenic drugs. To examine a possible role for the midbrain raphe nuclei in the differential effects of arousal procedures on circadian rhythms, hamsters were aroused for 3 h in the mid-rest period by confinement to a novel running wheel, gentle handling (with minimal activity) or physical restraint (with intermittent, loud compressed air stimulation) and sacrificed immediately thereafter. Regional expression of c-fos and tryptophan hydroxylase (TrpOH) were quantified immunocytochemically in the DRN, MnR and locus coeruleus (LC). Neither gentle handling nor wheel running had a large impact on c-fos expression in these areas, although the manipulations were associated with a small increase in c-Fos in TrpOH-like and TrpOH-negative cells, respectively, in the caudal interfascicular DRN region. By contrast, restraint stress significantly increased c-Fos in both TrpOH-like and TrpOH-negative cells in the rostral DRN and LC. c-Fos-positive cells in the DRN did not express tyrosine hydroxylase. These results reveal regionally specific monoaminergic correlates of arousal-induced circadian clock resetting, and suggest a hypothesis that strong activation of some DRN and LC neurons by inescapable stress may oppose clock resetting in response to arousal during the daily sleep period. More generally, these results complement evidence from other rodent species for functional topographic organization of the DRN.
Riluzole is clinically approved for the treatment of motoneuron disease. We have previously shown that this drug is neuroprotective for both sensory neurons and motoneurons and promotes neurite outgrowth [Bergerot A, Shortland PJ, Anand P, Hunt SP, Carlstedt T (2004) Exp Neurol 187(2):359-366; Shortland PJ, Leinster VH, White W, Robson LG (2006) Eur J Neurosci 24:3343-3353]. This study explored the effects of exogenous administration of 0.1 muM riluzole on the neurite growth of specific subpopulations of adult rat dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons in vitro. Neuronal branching and neurite length were measured in calcitonin gene related peptide (CGRP), Griffonia simplicifolia Isolectin B4 (IB4), N52 and parvalbumin positive neuronal subpopulations. Riluzole was found to enhance neurite branching in both CGRP and IB4 positive neurons compared to vehicle treated cultures. However, neurite length was only significantly increased in CGRP positive neurons in riluzole treated cultures. The results suggest that riluzole affects specific subpopulations of sensory neurons in vitro and that its effects may be mediated through activation of neurotrophic factor receptors, since neurite outgrowth could be blocked by the administration of K252a (at 10 nM). Riluzole may offer a new pharmacological approach to promote sensory regeneration following small fibre neuropathies.
Recent studies have demonstrated the contribution of the gamma subunit of the Fc receptor of IgG (FcRgamma) to neuronal death following ischemic injury and Parkinson's disease. We examined the role of FcRgamma in hippocampal pyramidal cell death induced by kainic acid (KA). FcRgamma-deficient mice (FcRgamma-/-) and their FcRgamma+/+ littermates (wild type, B6) received an injection of KA into the dorsal hippocampus. Pyramidal cell death was quantified 24 and 72 h after the injection. The number of survived pyramidal cells was significantly larger in FcRgamma-/- mice than in B6 mice in both the CA1 and CA3. Immunohistochemical and immunofluorescent studies detected FcgammaRIIB protein in parvalbumin neurons, whereas FcgammaRIII and FcgammaRI proteins were detected in microglial cells. No activated microglial cells were detected 24 h after the KA injection in FcRgamma-/- mice, whereas many activated microglial cells were present in B6 mice. The production of nitrotyrosine as well as of the inducible nitric oxide synthase and cyclooxygenase-2 proteins, increased by 16 h after the KA injection in B6 mice. In addition, tissue plasminogen activator and metalloproteinase-2 proteins increased. By contrast, the magnitude of oxidative stress and the increase in protease expression were mild in FcRgamma-/- mice. Co-injection of a neutralizing antibody against FcgammaRll and FcgammaRlll with KA abolished pyramidal cell death and microglial activation. In addition, the neutralizing antibody reduced oxidative stress and expression of proteases. These observations suggested a role for FcgammaRllB in parvalbumin neurons as well as FcRgamma in microglia in pyramidal cell death.
Studies have suggested that maternal infection/inflammation maybe a major risk factor for neurodevelopmental brain damage. In the present study, we evaluated the effects of prenatal exposure to a low level of inflammatory stimulation lipopolysaccharide (LPS) repeatedly on spatial learning and memory performances in rat offspring's lifetime. Sixteen pregnant Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly divided into two groups. The rats in the LPS group were treated i.p. with LPS (0.79 mg/kg) at gestation day 8, 10 and 12; meanwhile the rats in the control group were treated with saline. After delivery, the rat offspring at 3- (young), 10- (adult) and 20-mon-old (aged) were allocated. Spatial learning and memory abilities were tested by Morris water maze. The structure of hippocampal CA1 region was observed by light microscopy. The expression of synaptophysin (SYP) and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) in hippocampal CA1 region were measured by immunohistochemistry. Results showed that the rat offspring of LPS group needed longer escape latency and path-length in the Morris water maze and presented a significant neuron loss, decreased expression of SYP, increased expression of GFAP in CA1 region in histological studies. All these changes were more significant with the age increasing. These findings support the hypothesis that maternal systemic inflammation may alter the state of astrocytes in rat offspring for a long time, the alteration may affect neurons and synapse development in neural system, increase the neurons' vulnerability to environment especially as the age increasing, at last result in distinct learning and memory impairment.
The function of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in primary afferents remains controversial, in particular regarding their ability to evoke substance P release in the spinal cord. The objective of this study was, first, to confirm that substance P release evoked by NMDA is mediated by NMDA receptors in primary afferent terminals. Second, we investigated whether these NMDA receptors are inactivated in some conditions, which would explain why their effect on substance P release was not observed in some studies. Substance P release was induced in spinal cord slices and measured as neurokinin 1 (NK1) receptor internalization in lamina I neurons. NMDA (combined with d-serine) induced NK1 receptor internalization with a half of the effective concentration (EC50) of 258 nM. NMDA-induced NK1 receptor internalization was abolished by the NK1 receptor antagonist L-703,606, confirming that is was caused by substance P release, by NMDA receptor antagonists (MK1801 and ifenprodil), showing that it was mediated by NMDA receptors containing the NR2B subunit, and by preincubating the slices with capsaicin, showing that the substance P release was from primary afferents. However, it was not affected by lidocaine and omega-conotoxin MVIIA, which block Na+ channels and voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels, respectively. Therefore, NMDA-induced substance P release does not require firing of primary afferents or the opening of Ca2+ channels, which is consistent with the idea that NMDA receptors induce substance P directly by letting Ca2+ into primary afferent terminals. Importantly, NMDA-induced substance P release was eliminated by preincubating the slices for 1 h with the Src family kinase inhibitors PP1 and dasatinib, and was substantially increased by the protein tyrosine phosphatase inhibitor BVT948. In contrast, PP1 did not affect NK1 receptor internalization induced by capsaicin. These results show that tyrosine-phosphorylation of these NMDA receptors is regulated by the opposite actions of Src family kinases and protein tyrosine phosphatases, and is required to induce substance P release.
Action potentials from the brain control the activity of spinal neural networks to produce, by as yet unknown mechanisms, a variety of motor behaviors. Particularly lacking are details on how identified descending neurons integrate diverse sensory inputs to generate specific locomotor patterns. We have examined the operations of the principal neurons in an intriguing midbrain nucleus, the nucleus of the medial longitudinal fasciculus (nMLF), in the larval zebrafish. The nMLF is the most rostral grouping of neurons that projects from the brain well into the spinal cord of teleost fishes, yet there is little direct physiological data available regarding its function. We report here that a distinct set of large, individually-identifiable neurons in nMLF (the MeL and MeM neurons) are activated by diverse sensory stimuli and contribute to distinct locomotor behaviors. Using in vivo confocal calcium imaging we observed that both photic and mechanical stimuli elicit calcium responses indicative of the firing of action potentials. Calcium responses were observed simultaneously with distinct swimming, turning and struggling movements of the larval trunk. While selectively contralateral responses were at times observed in response to a head-tap stimulus, these nMLF cells showed roughly similar numbers of bilateral responses. Calcium responses were observed at a range of latencies, suggesting involvement with both slow swimming patterns and the burst swimming component of the escape behavior. The MeL cells in particular were strongly activated during light-evoked slow swimming. The activation of MeL cells during the slow and burst forward swim gaits is consistent with their driving and/or coordinating the activity of slow and fast central pattern generators in spinal cord. As such, the MeL cells may help to shape a variety of larval behaviors including the optomotor response, escape swimming and prey capture.
The subthalamic nucleus (STN) modulates the activity of globus pallidus (GP), entopeduncular nucleus (EP) and substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr) neurons via its direct glutamatergic projections. To investigate the mechanism by which STN affects activity in these structures and whether STN induced activity is comparable among STN target neurons, we performed patch clamp recordings in a tilted, parasagittal, basal ganglia slice (BGS) that preserves these functional connections. We report that single, brief stimulation of the STN generates a brief monosynaptic AMPA-mediated excitatory postsynaptic current (EPSC) in GP, EP and SNr neurons. A higher intensity, supra-threshold activation evokes a compound EPSC consisting of an early monosynaptic component followed by a slow inward NMDA-mediated current with an overlying barrage of AMPA-mediated EPSCs. These late EPSCs were polysynaptic and gave rise to bursts of spikes that lasted several hundreds of milliseconds. They were eliminated by surgical removal of the STN from the BGS slice, indicating that the STN is required for their generation. Reconstruction of biocytin-filled STN neurons revealed that a third of STN neurons project intra-STN axon collaterals that may underlie polysynaptic activity. We propose that activation of the STN yields comparable long lasting excitations in its target neurons by means of a polysynaptic network.
Ribbon synapses of the vertebrate retina are specialized synapses that release neurotransmitter by synaptic vesicle exocytosis in a manner that is proportional to the level of depolarization of the cell. This release property is different from conventional neurons, in which the release of neurotransmitter occurs as a short-lived burst triggered by an action potential. Synaptic vesicle exocytosis is a calcium regulated process that is dependent on a set of interacting synaptic proteins that form the so-called SNARE (soluble N-ethylmaleimide sensitive factor attachment protein receptor) complex. Syntaxin 3B has been identified as a specialized SNARE molecule in ribbon synapses of the rodent retina. However, the best physiologically-characterized neuron that forms ribbon-style synapses is the rod-dominant or Mb1 bipolar cell of the goldfish retina. We report here the molecular characterization of syntaxin 3B from the goldfish retina. Using a combination of reverse transcription (RT) polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and immunostaining with a specific antibody, we show that syntaxin 3B is highly enriched in the plasma membrane of bipolar cell synaptic terminals of the goldfish retina. Using membrane capacitance measurements we demonstrate that a peptide derived from goldfish syntaxin 3B inhibits synaptic vesicle exocytosis. These experiments demonstrate that syntaxin 3B is an important factor for synaptic vesicle exocytosis in ribbon synapses of the vertebrate retina.
Chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan (NG2) expressing cells, ubiquitously distributed in the CNS respond to injured or diseased neurons; however, their behaviors toward injured neurons have remained to be fully explored. In the present study, along with astrocytic and microglial responses, NG2 expressing cells reacted swiftly and robustly in the facial motor nucleus (FMN) subjected to axotomy. With time, hypertrophic NG2 expressing cells gradually adhered to and enwrapped the axotomized motoneurons. Tight encapsulations around axotomized motoneurons were eventually formed at 7, 14, and 28 days after axotomy. NG2 positive processes appeared to interpose between synapsin-1 immunoreactive nerve terminals and surfaces of axotomized motoneurons. Double labeling results showed that NG2 expressing cells encapsulating axotomized facial motoneurons were mainly microglia marked by OX42 and lectin; only a few of them were positive to platelet-derived growth factor-alpha receptor and none of them positive to ED-1. No Rhodamine particle was detected in the FMN ipsilateral to axotomy after venous injection of the particles. The results suggest that activated microglia in lesioned FMN were induced to express NG2 molecules. It is concluded that axotomized FMN showed two types of NG2 expressing cells namely constitutive NG2 cells and induced-NG2 expressing microglia.
We previously reported that electrical stimulation of the reticular formation dorsal to the facial nucleus (RdVII) elicited excitatory masseter responses at short latencies and that RdVII neurons were antidromically activated by stimulation of the trigeminal motor nucleus (MoV), suggesting that excitatory premotor neurons targeting the MoV are likely located in the RdVII. We thus examined the properties of synaptic transmission from the RdVII to jaw-closing and jaw-opening motoneurons in horizontal brainstem preparations from developing rats using voltage-sensitive dye, patch-clamp recordings and laser photostimulation. Electrical stimulation of the RdVII evoked optical responses in the MoV. Combined bath application of the non-N-methyl-d-aspartate (non-NMDA) receptor antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX), and the NMDA receptor antagonist DL-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (APV) reduced these optical responses, and addition of the glycine receptor antagonist strychnine and the GABA(A) receptor antagonist bicuculline further reduced the remaining responses. Electrical stimulation of the RdVII evoked postsynaptic currents (PSCs) in all 19 masseter motoneurons tested in postnatal day (P)1-4 rats, and application of CNQX and the NMDA receptor antagonist (+/-)-3(2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)propyl-1-phosphonic acid (CPP) reduced the PSC amplitudes by more than 50%. In the presence of CNQX and CPP, the GABA(A) receptor antagonist SR95531 further reduced PSC amplitude, and addition of strychnine abolished the remaining PSCs. Photostimulation of the RdVII with caged glutamate also evoked PSCs in masseter motoneurons of P3-4 rats. In P8-11 rats, electrical stimulation of the RdVII also evoked PSCs in all 14 masseter motoneurons tested, and the effects of the antagonists on the PSCs were similar to those in P1-4 rats. On the other hand, RdVII stimulation evoked PSCs in only three of 16 digastric motoneurons tested. These results suggest that both neonatal and juvenile jaw-closing motoneurons receive strong synaptic inputs from the RdVII through activation of glutamate, glycine and GABA(A) receptors, whereas inputs from the RdVII to jaw-opening motoneurons seem to be weak.
The hippocampus has been hypothesized to function as a &quot;spatial&quot; or &quot;cognitive&quot; map, however, the functional cellular organization of the spatial map remains a mystery. The majority of electrophysiological studies, thus far, have supported the view of a random-type organization in the hippocampus. However, using immediate early genes (IEGs) as an indicator of neuronal activity, we recently observed a cluster-type organization of hippocampal principal cells, whereby a small number ( approximately 4) of nearby cells were activated in rats exposed to a restricted part of an environment. To determine the fine structure of these clusters and to provide a 3D image of active hippocampal cells that encode for different parts of an environment, we established a functional mapping of IEGs zif268 and Homer1a, using in situ hybridization and 3D-reconstruction imaging methods. We found that, in rats exposed to the same location twice, there were significantly more double IEG-expressing cells, and the clusters of nearby cells were more &quot;tightly&quot; formed, in comparison to rats exposed to two different locations. We propose that spatial encoding recruits specific cell ensembles in the hippocampus and that with repeated exposure to the same place the ensembles become better organized to more accurately represent the &quot;spatial map.&quot;
Alpha-synuclein is an abundant protein implicated in synaptic function and plasticity, but the molecular mechanism of its action is not understood. Missense mutations and gene duplication/triplication events result in Parkinson's disease, a neurodegenerative disorder of old age with impaired movement and emotion control. Here, we systematically investigated the striatal as well as the cerebellar transcriptome profile of alpha-synuclein-deficient mice via a genome-wide microarray survey in order to gain hypothesis-free molecular insights into the physiological function of alpha-synuclein. A genotype-dependent, specific and strong downregulation of forkhead box P1 (Foxp1) transcript levels was observed in all brain regions from postnatal age until old age and could be validated by qPCR. In view of the co-localization and heterodimer formation of FOXP1 with FOXP2, a transcription factor with a well established role for vocalization, and the reported regulation of both alpha-synuclein and FOXP2 expression during avian song learning, we performed a detailed assessment of mouse movements and vocalizations in the postnatal period. While there was no difference in isolation-induced behavioral activity in these animals, the alpha-synuclein-deficient mice exhibited an increased production of isolation-induced ultrasonic vocalizations (USVs). This phenotype might also reflect the reduced expression of the anxiety-related GABA-A receptor subunit gamma 2 (Gabrg2) we observed. Taken together, we identified an early behavioral consequence of alpha-synuclein deficiency and accompanying molecular changes, which supports the notion that the neural connectivity of sound or emotion control systems is affected.
Methamphetamine (Meth) is a highly addictive stimulant. Meth abuse is commonly associated with the practice of sexual risk behavior and increased prevalence of Human Immunodeficiency Virus and Meth users report heightened sexual desire, arousal, and sexual pleasure. The biological basis for this drug-sex nexus is unknown. The current study demonstrates that Meth administration in male rats activates neurons in brain regions of the mesolimbic system that are involved in the regulation of sexual behavior. Specifically, Meth and mating co-activate cells in the nucleus accumbens core and shell, basolateral amygdala, and anterior cingulate cortex. These findings illustrate that in contrast to current belief drugs of abuse can activate the same cells as a natural reinforcer, that is sexual behavior, and in turn may influence compulsive seeking of this natural reward.
Mutations in the human cone-rod homeobox (Crx) gene are associated with retinal dystrophies such as Leber Congenital Amaurosis (LCA), characterized by complete or near complete absence of vision from birth. The photoreceptors of Crx-/- mice lack outer segments, and therefore cannot capture light signals through rods and cones, thus resulting in a lack of normal retinal ganglion cell activity from birth. Using specific antibodies to subsets of neurons and markers of activity, we examined the impact of this absence of sensory input on the development of the primary visual cortex (V1) in early postnatal Crx-/- mice, before wiring of the visual system is complete, and in adulthood. We revealed that Crx-/- mice did not exhibit gross anatomical differences in V1; however, they exhibited significantly fewer calcium-binding protein (parvalbumin and calbindin-D28k) expressing interneurons, as well as reduced nonphosphorylated neurofilament expression in V1. These results reveal that the Crx mutation and lack of light stimulation through the photoreceptor pathway regulate the development and phenotype of different neuronal populations in V1 but not its general morphology. We conclude, therefore, that photoreceptor-mediated visual input during development is crucial for the normal postnatal development and maturation of subsets of cortical neurons.

Diagnosing neurodegenerative diseases, monitoring their progression and assessing responses to treatments will all be aided by the identification of molecular markers of different stages of pathology. Protein biomarkers for HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders that have been discovered using proteomics include complement C3, soluble superoxide dismutase and a prostaglandin synthase. Metabolomics has not yet been widely used for biomarker discovery, but early work shows that it has great potential.


Rapamycin is an oral immunosuppressant drug previously reported to efficiently induce naturally occurring CD4(+)CD25(+)FoxP3(+) regulatory T ((n)T(reg)) cells re-establishing long-term immune self-tolerance in autoimmune diseases. We investigated the effect of rapamycin administration to SJL/j mice affected by PLP(139-151)-induced relapsing-remitting experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (RR-EAE). We found that oral or intraperitoneal treatment at the peak of disease or at the end of the first clinical attack, dramatically ameliorated the clinical course of RR-EAE. Treatment suspension resulted in early reappearance of disease. Clinical response was associated with reduced central nervous system demyelination and axonal loss. Rapamycin induced suppression of IFN-gamma, and IL-17 release from antigen-specific T cells in peripheral lymphoid organs. While CD4(+)FoxP3(+) cells were unaffected, we observed disappearance of CD4(+)CD45RB(high) effector T (T(eff)) cells and selective expansion of T(reg) cells bearing the CD4(+)CD45RB(low)FoxP3(+)CD25(+)CD103(+) extended phenotype. Finally, the dual action of rapamycin on both T(eff) and T(reg) cells resulted in modulation of their ratio that closely paralleled disease course. Our data show that rapamycin inhibits RR-EAE, provide evidence for the immunological mechanisms, and indicate this compound as a potential candidate for the treatment of multiple sclerosis.
Multiple Sclerosis (MS) is a genetically complex immune mediated, demyelinating disease of the central nervous system. To date no genetic variants have been unambiguously linked to disease severity. We have conducted a genome wide screen, using Affymetrix Genechip 500K technology, for severity in 1040 MS patients. Two markers within MGAT5, a gene coding for a glycosylation enzyme, were found to be significantly associated with outcome in the screening as well as in an independent population (combined p-values: 2.8 x 10(-6) and 1.5 x 10(-7)).
Evidence suggests that noradrenaline has a tonic anti-inflammatory action in the central nervous system (CNS) via its ability to inhibit expression of inflammatory mediators from glial cells. Consequently it is suggested that noradrenaline may play an endogenous neuroprotective role in CNS disorders where inflammatory events contribute to pathology. Infiltration of peripheral immune cells into the brain is driven by increased chemokine and cell adhesion molecule (CAM) expression, and is known to exacerbate neuroinflammation and thereby contribute to the disease process in a number of neurodegenerative disease states. Here we demonstrate that treatment of rats with the noradrenaline reuptake inhibitors (NRIs) desipramine and atomoxetine, agents that increase extracellular noradrenaline in the CNS, suppressed chemokine and cell adhesion molecule (CAM) expression in rat brain following a systemic challenge with bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Specifically, these agents reduced expression of the chemokines, interferon-inducible protein-10 (IP-10, CXCL-10) and regulated upon activation normal T-cell expressed and secreted (RANTES, CCL-5), and the CAMs, vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1) and intercellular adhesion molecule (ICAM-1) in cortex and hippocampus. The inhibitory action of NRIs on chemokines and CAM expression was mimicked by in vitro exposure of cultured glial cells to noradrenaline, but not to the NRIs themselves. These data indicate that the suppressive action of NRIs on chemokine and CAM expression that occurs in vivo is due to increased noradrenaline availability at glial cells, as opposed to a direct action of the drugs on glial cells per se. These results support the theory that noradrenaline has anti-inflammatory properties, and agents that increase noradrenaline availability in vivo can play a role in combating brain inflammation by reducing expression of chemokines and CAMs; molecules that facilitate leucocyte influx into the CNS.
Invasive brain signal recordings generally rely on bioelectrodes implanted on the cortex underneath the dura. Subdural recordings have strong advantages in terms of bandwidth, spatial resolution and signal quality. However, subdural electrodes also have the drawback of compromising the long-term stability of such implants and heighten the risk of infection. Epidurally implanted electrodes might provide a viable alternative to subdural electrodes, offering a compromise between signal quality and invasiveness. Determining the feasibility of epidural electrode implantation for e.g., clinical research, brain-computer interfacing (BCI) and cognitive experiments, requires the characterization of the electrical properties of the dura, and its effect on signal feature detection. In this paper we report measurements of brain signal attenuation by the human dura in vivo. In addition, we use signal detection theory to study how the presence of the dura between the sources and the recording electrodes affects signal power features in motor BCI experiments. For noise levels typical of clinical brain signal recording equipment, we observed no detrimental effects on signal feature detection due to the dura. Subdural recordings were found to be more robust with respect to increased instrumentation noise level as compared to their epidural counterpart nonetheless. Our findings suggest that epidural electrode implantation is a viable alternative to subdural implants from the feature detection viewpoint.
There is increased need for efficient computerized methods to collect reliable data on a range of cognitive domains that can be linked to specific brain systems. Such need arises in functional neuroimaging studies, where individual differences in cognitive performance are variables of interest or serve as confounds. In genetic studies of complex behavior, which require particularly large samples, such trait measures can serve as endophenotypes. Traditional neuropsychological tests, based on clinical pathological correlations, are protracted, require extensive training in administration and scoring, and leave lengthy paper trails (double-entry for analysis). We present a computerized battery that takes an average of 1h and provides measures of accuracy and speed on 9 neurocognitive domains. They are cognitive neuroscience-based in that they have been linked experimentally to specific brain systems with functional neuroimaging studies. We describe the process of translating tasks used in functional neuroimaging to tests for assessing individual differences. Data are presented on each test with samples ranging from 139 (81 female) to 536 (311 female) of carefully screened healthy individuals ranging in age from 18 to 84. Item consistency was established with acceptable to high Cronbach alpha coefficients. Inter-item correlations were moderate to high within domain and low to nil across domains, indicating construct validity. Initial criterion validity was demonstrated by sensitivity to sex differences and the effects of age, education and parental education. These results encourage the use of this battery in studies needing an efficient assessment of major neurocognitive domains such as multi-site genetic studies and clinical trials.
Modern acute ischemic stroke therapy is based on the premise that recanalization and subsequent reperfusion are essential for the preservation of brain tissue and favorable clinical outcomes. We outline key issues that we think underlie equipoise regarding the comparative clinical efficacy of IV recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA) and intra-arterial (IA) reperfusion therapies for acute ischemic stroke. On the one hand, IV rt-PA therapy has the benefit of speed with presumed lower rates of recanalization of large artery occlusions as compared to IA methods. More recent reports of major arterial occlusions treated with IV rt-PA, as measured by transcranial Doppler and magnetic resonance angiography, demonstrate higher rates of recanalization. Conversely, IA therapies report higher recanalization rates, but are hampered by procedural delays and risks, even failing to be applied at all in occasional patients where time to reperfusion remains a critical factor. Higher rates of recanalization in IA trials using clot-removal devices have not translated into improved patient functional outcome as compared to trials of IV therapy. Combined IV-IA therapy promises to offer advantages of both, but perhaps only when applied in the timeliest of fashions, compared to IV therapy alone. Where equipoise exists, randomizing subjects to either IV rt-PA therapy or IV therapy followed by IA intervention, while incorporating new interventions into the study design, is a rational and appropriate research approach.
Exposure of rats to high strength static magnetic fields of 7 T or above has behavioral effects such as the induction of locomotor circling, the suppression of rearing, and the acquisition of conditioned taste aversion (CTA). To determine if habituation occurs across magnetic field exposures, rats were pre-exposed two times to a 14 T static magnetic field for 30 min on two consecutive days; on the third day, rats were given access to a novel 0.125% saccharin prior to a third 30-min exposure to the 14 T magnetic field. Compared to sham-exposed rats, pre-exposed rats showed less locomotor circling and an attenuated CTA. Rearing was suppressed in all magnet-exposed groups regardless of pre-exposure, suggesting that the suppression of rearing is more sensitive than other behavioral responses to magnet exposure. Habituation was also observed when rats underwent pre-exposures at 2-3h intervals on a single day. Components of the habituation were also long-lasting; a diminished circling response was observed when rats were exposed to magnetic field 36 days after 2 pre-exposures. To control for possible effects of unconditioned stimulus pre-exposure, rats were also tested in a similar experimental design with two injections of LiCl prior to the pairing of saccharin with a third injection of LiCl. Pre-exposure to LiCl did not attenuate the LiCl-induced CTA, suggesting that 2 pre-exposures to an unconditioned stimulus are not sufficient to explain the habituation to magnet exposure. Because the effects of magnetic field exposure are dependent on an intact vestibular apparatus, and because the vestibular system can habituate to many forms of perturbation, habituation to magnetic field exposure is consistent with mediation of magnetic field effects by the vestibular system.
We have found repeatedly that medial septal (MS) infusions of glucose impair memory when co-infused with the gamma-amino butyric acid (GABA) agonist muscimol. The present experiments sought to determine whether the memory-impairing effects of this concentration of glucose would generalize to another GABA(A) receptor agonist and to an agonist from another neurotransmitter system that is known to impair memory. Specifically, we determined whether the dose of glucose that produces memory deficits when combined with muscimol in the MS would also impair memory when co-infused with the GABA(A) receptor modulator chlordiazepoxide (CDP) or the opiate morphine. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were given MS co-infusions and then 15 min later tested for spontaneous alternation or given shock avoidance training (retention tested 48 h later). The results showed that MS infusions of the higher dose of glucose with morphine did not produce memory deficits, whereas, the performance of rats given MS co-infusions of CDP with glucose was impaired. These findings suggest that the memory-impairing effects of brain glucose administration may involve an interaction with the GABA(A) receptor.
H. Bart van der Worp and colleagues discuss the controversies and possibilities of translating the results of animal experiments into human clinical trials.
An optimal choice among alternative behavioral options requires precise anticipatory representations of their possible outcomes. A fundamental question is how such anticipated outcomes are represented in the brain. Reward coding at the level of single cells in the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) follows a more heterogeneous coding scheme than suggested by studies using functional MRI (fMRI) in humans. Using a combination of multivariate pattern classification and fMRI we show that the reward value of sensory cues can be decoded from distributed fMRI patterns in the OFC. This distributed representation is compatible with previous reports from animal electrophysiology that show that reward is encoded by different neural populations with opposing coding schemes. Importantly, the fMRI patterns representing specific values during anticipation are similar to those that emerge during the receipt of reward. Furthermore, we show that the degree of this coding similarity is related to subjects' ability to use value information to guide behavior. These findings narrow the gap between reward coding in humans and animals and corroborate the notion that value representations in OFC are independent of whether reward is anticipated or actually received.
To navigate a complex and changing environment, an animal's sensory neurons must continually adapt to persistent cues while remaining responsive to novel stimuli. Long-term exposure to an inherently attractive odor causes Caenorhabditis elegans to ignore that odor, a process termed odor adaptation. Odor adaptation is likely to begin within the sensory neuron, because it requires factors that act within these cells at the time of odor exposure. The process by which an olfactory sensory neuron makes a decisive shift over time from a receptive state to a lasting unresponsive one remains obscure. In C. elegans, adaptation to odors sensed by the AWC pair of olfactory neurons requires the cGMP-dependent protein kinase EGL-4. Using a fully functional, GFP-tagged EGL-4, we show here that prolonged odor exposure sends EGL-4 into the nucleus of the stimulated AWC neuron. This odor-induced nuclear translocation correlates temporally with the stable dampening of chemotaxis that is indicative of long-term adaptation. Long-term adaptation requires cGMP binding residues as well as an active EGL-4 kinase. We show here that EGL-4 nuclear accumulation is both necessary and sufficient to induce long-lasting odor adaptation. After it is in the AWC nucleus, EGL-4 decreases the animal's responsiveness to AWC-sensed odors by acting downstream of the primary sensory transduction. Thus, the EGL-4 protein kinase acts as a sensor that integrates odor signaling over time, and its nuclear translocation is an instructive switch that allows the animal to ignore persistent odors.
Eating disorder (ED) patients have severe disturbances in the perception of body shape and weight. The authors investigated brain activation patterns during the perception of distorted body images in various subtypes of ED. Participants comprised 33 patients with EDs (11 with restricting-type anorexia nervosa (AN-R), 11 with binging-purging type anorexia nervosa (AN-BP), 11 with bulimia nervosa (BN)) and 11 healthy women. Functional magnetic resonance imaging was used to examine cerebral response to morphed images of subjects' own bodies, as well as that of another woman. The amygdala was significantly activated in AN-R patients, AN-BP patients, and healthy women in response to their own fat-image, but this did not occur in BN patients. The prefrontal cortex (PFC) was significantly activated in AN-BP patients and healthy women, but not in AN-R and BN patients. Our results showed that the various EDs are different with respect to significant activation of the amygdala and PFC during the processing of participants' own fat-image. Brain activation pattern differences between the various EDs may underlie cognitive differences with respect to distorted body image, and therefore might reflect a general failure to represent and evaluate one's own body in a realistic fashion.
We reported increased high-energy phosphate metabolism in the basal ganglia of antipsychotic-nave schizophrenia patients using (31)P Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy (MRS). These patients were followed up for 1 year and and reassessed using (31)P MRS. Fourteen (8 males) patients with DSM-IV schizophrenia and 14 (11 males) healthy controls underwent (31)P MRS of sub-cortical structures (predominantly basal ganglia) twice (mean+/-S.D. interscan interval 1.15+/-0.17year) on a 1.5T scanner. Total scores on the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) decreased significantly after treatment in schizophrenia patients. Patients had significantly lower mean PCr/ATP ratios than healthy controls at baseline but not during the follow-up. In patients, there was a significant positive correlation between the magnitude of improvement in PANSS total scores and the extent of change in the PCr/ATP ratio. Findings support the hypothesis that reduction of energy demand or induction of decreased energy-demanding processes might underlie the mechanism of action of antipsychotics in schizophrenia.
In this study, we present an accurate, reliable, robust, and time-efficient technique for a semi-automatic segmentation of neuroanatomically defined cortical structures in Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) scans. It involves manual drawing of the border of a region of interest (ROI), supported by three-dimensional (3D) visualization techniques (rendering), and a subsequent automatic tracing of the gray matter voxels inside the ROI by means of an automatic tissue classifier. The approach has been evaluated on a set of MRI scans of 75 participants selected from the Maastricht Aging Study (MAAS) and applied to cortical brain structures for both the left and right hemispheres, viz., the inferior prefrontal cortex (PFC); the orbital PFC; the dorsolateral PFC; the anterior cingulate cortex; and the posterior cingulate cortex. The use of a 3D surface-rendered brain can be rotated in any direction was invaluable in identifying anatomical landmarks on the basis of gyral and sulcal topography. This resulted in a high accuracy (anatomical correctness) and reliability: the intra-rater intra-class correlation coefficient (ICC) was between 0.96 and 0.99. Furthermore, the obtained time savings were substantial, i.e., up to a factor of 7.5 compared with fully manual segmentations.
We tested for associations between five single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) located in the area containing the Neuregulin 1 gene (NRG1) and three SNPs within the brain-derived neutrophic factor gene (BDNF) in an Italian sample consisting of 171 schizophrenia subjects and 349 controls. No association was found for any of the polymorphisms tested, either in single locus or in haplotype analysis.
Enteroviridae such as coxsackievirus are important infectious agents causing viral heart diseases. Viral protease 2A (2Apro) initiates the virus life cycle, and is an excellent target for developing antiviral drugs. Here, to evaluate the validity of the 2Apro as a proper therapeutic target, and based on the existing information and molecular dynamics, a 16-mer peptide was designed to specifically target the active site of protease 2Apro in order to block the activity of CVB3 2Apro. We showed that the peptide could compete with endogenous substrate in a concentration-dependent manner. Further, we established a HeLa cell line that expressed 2Apro. Expression of 2Apro resulted in significant morphological alteration and eventual cell death. Western blot and viability assay showed that the 16-mer peptide (200 microg/ml) could significantly block 2Apro activity and its cytotoxic effect. Future modification of the 16-mer peptide can improve its affinity for 2Apro and therefore develop effective antiviral drug.

Attachment to the substrate is essential for both survival and differentiation of various kinds of cells, such as neurons and epithelial cells. We recently found a small synthetic molecule, adhesamine, which boosts adhesion and growth of mammalian cells. In the present study, we applied adhesamine to primary cultured hippocampal neuronal cells and compared its effects with those of PLL (poly-L-lysine), which is widely used as a substrate for cell cultures. Neurons grown on adhesamine-coated coverslips survived for up to 1 month without a feeder layer of glial cells, and had greater viability than cells grown on PLL-coated coverslips. Morphological analysis revealed that neurons cultured with adhesamine exhibited earlier differentiation, i.e. earlier axonal outgrowth and dendritic maturation with enhanced neurite branching, than neurons cultured with PLL. Synaptic formation and postsynaptic responses were evident as early as 4 days in cells cultured with adhesamine. Acceleration of differentiation is mediated by earlier activation of the signalling pathways from heparan sulfate in the extracellular matrix to both FAK (focal adhesion kinase) and MAPK (mitogen-activated protein kinase). Improved survival rates and accelerated maturation of neurons exposed to adhesamine suggest that this completely synthetic molecule may be a useful reagent for culturing neuronal cells.
High resolution monitoring of stimulus-evoked retinal neural activities is important for understanding retinal neural mechanisms, and can be a powerful tool for retinal disease diagnosis and treatment outcome evaluation. Fast intrinsic optical signals (IOSs), which have the time courses comparable to that of electrophysiological activities in the retina, hold the promise for high resolution imaging of retinal neural activities. However, application of fast IOS imaging has been hindered by the contamination of slow, high magnitude optical responses associated with transient hemodynamic and metabolic changes. In this paper we demonstrate the feasibility of separating fast retinal IOSs from slow optical responses by combining flicker stimulation and dynamic (temporal) differential image processing. A near infrared flood-illumination microscope equipped with a high-speed (1000 Hz) digital camera was used to conduct concurrent optical imaging and ERG measurement of isolated frog retinas. High spatiotemporal resolution imaging revealed that fast IOSs could follow flicker frequency up to at least 6 Hz. Comparable time courses of fast IOSs and ERG kinetics provide evidence that fast IOSs are originated from stimulus activated retinal neurons.
Both food-storing behaviour and the hippocampus change annually in food-storing birds. Food storing increases substantially in autumn and winter in chickadees and tits, jays and nutcrackers and nuthatches. The total size of the chickadee hippocampus increases in autumn and winter as does the rate of hippocampal neurogenesis. The hippocampus is necessary for accurate cache retrieval in food-storing birds and is much larger in food-storing birds than in non-storing passerines. It therefore seems probable that seasonal change in caching and seasonal change in the hippocampus are causally related. The peak in recruitment of new neurons into the hippocampus occurs before birds have completed food storing and cache retrieval for the year and may therefore be associated with spacing caches, encoding the spatial locations of caches, or creating a neuronal architecture involved in the recollection of cache sites. The factors controlling hippocampal plasticity in food-storing birds are not well understood. Photoperiodic manipulations that produce change in food-storing behaviour have no effect on either hippocampal size or neuronal recruitment. Available evidence suggests that changes in hippocampal size and neurogenesis may be a consequence of the behavioural and cognitive involvement of the hippocampus in storing and retrieving food.
A well-developed spatial memory is important for many animals, but appears especially important for scatter-hoarding species. Consequently, the scatter-hoarding system provides an excellent paradigm in which to study the integrative aspects of memory use within an ecological and evolutionary framework. One of the main tenets of this paradigm is that selection for enhanced spatial memory for cache locations should specialize the brain areas involved in memory. One such brain area is the hippocampus (Hp). Many studies have examined this adaptive specialization hypothesis, typically relating spatial memory to Hp volume. However, it is unclear how the volume of the Hp is related to its function for spatial memory. Thus, the goal of this article is to evaluate volume as a main measurement of the degree of morphological and physiological adaptation of the Hp as it relates to memory. We will briefly review the evidence for the specialization of memory in food-hoarding animals and discuss the philosophy behind volume as the main currency. We will then examine the problems associated with this approach, attempting to understand the advantages and limitations of using volume and discuss alternatives that might yield more specific hypotheses. Overall, there is strong evidence that the Hp is involved in the specialization of spatial memory in scatter-hoarding animals. However, volume may be only a coarse proxy for more relevant and subtle changes in the structure of the brain underlying changes in behaviour. To better understand the nature of this brain/memory relationship, we suggest focusing on more specific and relevant features of the Hp, such as the number or size of neurons, variation in connectivity depending on dendritic and axonal arborization and the number of synapses. These should generate more specific hypotheses derived from a solid theoretical background and should provide a better understanding of both neural mechanisms of memory and their evolution.
Understanding the survival value of behaviour does not tell us how the mechanisms that control this behaviour work. Nevertheless, understanding survival value can guide the study of these mechanisms. In this paper, we apply this principle to understanding the cognitive mechanisms that support cache retrieval in scatter-hoarding animals. We believe it is too simplistic to predict that all scatter-hoarding animals will outperform non-hoarding animals on all tests of spatial memory. Instead, we argue that we should look at the detailed ecology and natural history of each species. This understanding of natural history then allows us to make predictions about which aspects of spatial memory should be better in which species. We use the natural hoarding behaviour of the three best-studied groups of scatter-hoarding animals to make predictions about three aspects of their spatial memory: duration, capacity and spatial resolution, and we test these predictions against the existing literature. Having laid out how ecology and natural history can be used to predict detailed cognitive abilities, we then suggest using this approach to guide the study of the neural basis of these abilities. We believe that this complementary approach will reveal aspects of memory processing that would otherwise be difficult to discover.
Many animals regularly hoard food for future use, which appears to be an important adaptation to a seasonally and/or unpredictably changing environment. This food-hoarding paradigm is an excellent example of a natural system that has broadly influenced both theoretical and empirical work in the field of biology. The food-hoarding paradigm has played a major role in the conceptual framework of numerous fields from ecology (e.g. plant-animal interactions) and evolution (e.g. the coevolution of caching, spatial memory and the hippocampus) to psychology (e.g. memory and cognition) and neurobiology (e.g. neurogenesis and the neurobiology of learning and memory). Many food-hoarding animals retrieve caches by using spatial memory. This memory-based behavioural system has the inherent advantage of being tractable for study in both the field and laboratory and has been shaped by natural selection, which produces variation with strong fitness consequences in a variety of taxa. Thus, food hoarding is an excellent model for a highly integrative approach to understanding numerous questions across a variety of disciplines. Recently, there has been a surge of interest in the complexity of animal cognition such as future planning and episodic-like-memory as well as in the relationship between memory, the environment and the brain. In addition, new breakthroughs in neurobiology have enhanced our ability to address the mechanisms underlying these behaviours. Consequently, the field is necessarily becoming more integrative by assessing behavioural questions in the context of natural ecological systems and by addressing mechanisms through neurobiology and psychology, but, importantly, within an evolutionary and ecological framework. In this issue, we aim to bring together a series of papers providing a modern synthesis of ecology, psychology, physiology and neurobiology and identifying new directions and developments in the use of food-hoarding animals as a model system.
Veterinary surgeons are known to be at a higher risk of suicide compared with the general population. There has been much speculation regarding possible mechanisms underlying the increased suicide risk in the profession, but little empirical research. A computerised search of published literature on the suicide risk and influences on suicide among veterinarians, with comparison to the risk and influences in other occupational groups and in the general population, was used to develop a structured review. Veterinary surgeons have a proportional mortality ratio (PMR) for suicide approximately four times that of the general population and around twice that of other healthcare professions. A complex interaction of possible mechanisms may occur across the course of a veterinary career to increase the risk of suicide. Possible factors include the characteristics of individuals entering the profession, negative effects during undergraduate training, work-related stressors, ready access to and knowledge of means, stigma associated with mental illness, professional and social isolation, and alcohol or drug misuse (mainly prescription drugs to which the profession has ready access). Contextual effects such as attitudes to death and euthanasia, formed through the profession's routine involvement with euthanasia of companion animals and slaughter of farm animals, and suicide 'contagion' due to direct or indirect exposure to suicide of peers within this small profession are other possible influences.
Evidence exists that the adenosine receptor A(2A)R and the dopamine receptor D(2)R form constitutive heteromers in living cells. Mass spectrometry and pull-down data showed that an arginine-rich domain of the D(2)R third intracellular loop binds via electrostatic interactions to a specific motif of the A(2A)R C-terminal tail. It has been indicated that the phosphorylated serine 374 might represent an important residue in this motif. In the present study, it was found that a point mutation of serine 374 to alanine reduced the A(2A)R ability to interact with D(2)R. Also, this point mutation abolished the A(2A)R-mediated inhibition of both the D(2)R high affinity agonist binding and signaling. These results point to a key role of serine 374 in the A(2A)R-D(2)R interface. All together these results indicate that by targeting A(2A)R serine 374 it will be possible to allosterically modulate A(2A)R-D(2)R function, thus representing a new approach for therapeutically modulate D(2)R function.

Mice exposed to intermittent cold stress (ICS), but not constant cold stress (CCS) showed sustained thermal hyperalgesia for up to 12 days. Systemic or intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection of morphine caused no significant analgesia in ICS mice, but induced dose-dependent analgesia in control mice. However, significant analgesic effects were achieved by intrathecal or intraplantar injection of morphine. The i.c.v. injection of morphine significantly increased the turnover ratio (5-HIAA/5-HT) in the dorsal half of the spinal cord of control mice, but not in ICS mice. Collectively, these results indicate that the loss of descending serotonergic activation seems to be a key mechanism underlying the absence of morphine-induced analgesia.

Synaptic vesicle fusion in brain synapses occurs in phases that are either tightly coupled to action potentials (synchronous), immediately following action potentials (asynchronous), or as stochastic events in the absence of action potentials (spontaneous). Synaptotagmin-1, -2, and -9 are vesicle-associated Ca2+ sensors for synchronous release. Here we found that double C2 domain (Doc2) proteins act as Ca2+ sensors to trigger spontaneous release. Although Doc2 proteins are cytosolic, they function analogously to synaptotagmin-1 but with a higher Ca2+ sensitivity. Doc2 proteins bound to N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment receptor (SNARE) complexes in competition with synaptotagmin-1. Thus, different classes of multiple C2 domain-containing molecules trigger synchronous versus spontaneous fusion, which suggests a general mechanism for synaptic vesicle fusion triggered by the combined actions of SNAREs and multiple C2 domain-containing proteins.
Glucose homeostasis in humans is an important factor for the functioning of the nervous system. A decrease in glucose content below a minimal level or hypoglycemia is dangerous for cells of the central and peripheral nerve system. In the present study we showed the effects of insulin induced hypoglycaemia and streptozotocin induced diabetes on the cerebellar glutamate receptor subunits and glutamate transporter. Cerebellar dysfunction is associated with seizure generation, motor deficits and memory impairment. We found an up regulation in NMDA receptor number and gene expression of N-methyl-d-aspartic acid (NMDA(R1)), NMDA(2B), metabotrophic glutamate 5 (mGlu(5)) glutamate receptor subunits in experimental rats. The glutamate content was shown to be increased with decreased glutamate aspartate transporter (GLAST) gene expressions indicating lower reuptake of glutamate. The enhanced gene expression of NMDA(R1), NMDA(2B), mGlu(5) glutamate receptors were confirmed by immunohistochemistry studies. At the second messenger level, the IP3 content and IP3 receptors were enhanced in the cerebellum of both hypoglycaemic and diabetic rats increased. The present study showed that the enhanced glutamate content activates NMDA receptors, increasing the inositol triphosphate (IP3) content which mediates Ca(2+) overload in cells causing cell damage and neurodegeneration. Our results also showed that the enhanced glutamate receptor activity were more prominent in hypoglycaemic group compared to diabetic group. Further the neurodegeneration by the up regulation of glutamate receptor activity causing motor dysfunction was demonstrated by the Rotarod test. Thus our results suggest that enhanced NMDA receptor mediated neurodegeneration affect the motor learning and memory ability of an individual.
The discovery of new highly potent and selective triple reuptake inhibitors is reported. The new classes of 1-(aryl)-6-[alkoxyalkyl]-3-azabicyclo[3.1.0]hexanes and 6-(aryl)-6-[alkoxyalkyl]-3-azabicyclo[3.1.0]hexanes are described together with detailed SAR. Appropriate decoration of the scaffolds was achieved with the help of a triple reuptake inhibitor pharmacophore model detailed here. Selected derivatives showed good oral bioavailability (&gt;30%) and brain penetration (B/B &gt; 4) in rats associated with high in vitro potency and selectivity at SERT, NET, and DAT. Among these compounds, microdialysis and in vivo experiments confirm that derivative 15 has an appropriate developability profile to be considered for further progression.
Acute or long-term energy deficit in lean or obese rodents or humans stimulates food intake or appetite and reduces metabolic rate or energy expenditure. These changes contribute to weight regain in post-obese animals and humans. Some studies show that the reduction in metabolic rate with energy deficit in overweight people is transient. Energy restriction has been shown in some but not all studies to reduce physical activity, and this may represent an additional energy-conserving adaptation. Energy restriction up-regulates expression of the orexigenic neuropeptide Y, agouti related peptide and opioids and down-regulates that of the anorexigenic alpha-melanocyte stimulating hormone or its precursor pro-opioomelanocortin and the co-expressed cocaine and amphetamine-regulated transcript in the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus. Recapitulating these hypothalamic changes in sated animals mimics the effects of energy deficit, namely increased food intake, reduced physical activity and reduced metabolic rate, suggesting that these energy-conserving adaptations are at least partially mediated by the hypothalamus.
Social neuroscience is rapidly exploring the complex territory between perception and action where recognition, value, and meaning are instantiated. This review follows the trail of research on oxytocin and vasopressin as an exemplar of one path for exploring the &quot;dark matter&quot; of social neuroscience. Studies across vertebrate species suggest that these neuropeptides are important for social cognition, with gender- and steroid-dependent effects. Comparative research in voles yields a model based on interspecies and intraspecies variation of the geography of oxytocin receptors and vasopressin V1a receptors in the forebrain. Highly affiliative species have receptors in brain circuits related to reward or reinforcement. The neuroanatomical distribution of these receptors may be guided by variations in the regulatory regions of their respective genes. This review describes the promises and problems of extrapolating these findings to human social cognition, with specific reference to the social deficits of autism.
Social neuroscience has been enormously successful and is making major contributions to fields ranging from psychiatry to economics. Yet deep and interesting conceptual challenges abound. Is social information processing domain specific? Is it universal or susceptible to individual differences and effects of culture? Are there uniquely human social cognitive abilities? What is the &quot;social brain,&quot; and how do we map social psychological processes onto it? Animal models together with fMRI and other cognitive neuroscience approaches in humans are providing an unprecedented level of detail and many surprising results. It may well be that social neuroscience in the near future will give us an entirely new view of who we are, how we evolved, and what might be in store for the future of our species.
How do we define ourselves as humans and interact with our various environments? Recently, neuroscience has extended into other disciplines in the humanities and social sciences, questioning the existence of distinct disciplines like anthropology, which describes the relationship between humans and their various environments. However, rather than being incorporated into neuroscience, anthropology may be considered complementary, and a marriage of the two disciplines can provide deep insight into these fundamental questions.
This paper discusses the development of the human social brain. First, I will argue that social cognition is uniquely important and describe evidence that social interaction plays a critical role in early brain development. I will then discuss recent research demonstrating that the social brain undergoes protracted development and that adolescence in particular represents a period of reorganization of the social brain. Finally, I will attempt to draw out potential implications of this new research for education policy and for human wellbeing.

Cells with stem cell properties have been isolated from various areas of the postnatal mammalian brain, most recently from the postnatal mouse cerebellum. We show here that inactivation of the tumor suppressor genes Rb and p53 in these endogenous neural stem cells induced deregulated proliferation and resistance to apoptosis in vitro. Moreover, injection of these cells into mice formed medulloblastomas. Medulloblastomas are the most common malignant brain tumors of childhood, and despite recent advances in treatment they are associated with high morbidity and mortality. They are highly heterogeneous tumors characterized by a diverse genetic make-up and expression profile as well as variable prognosis. Here, we describe a novel ontogenetic pathway of medulloblastoma that significantly contributes to understanding their heterogeneity. Experimental medulloblastomas originating from neural stem cells preferentially expressed stem cell markers Nestin, Sox2 and Sox9, which were not expressed in medulloblastomas originating from granule-cell-restricted progenitors. Furthermore, the expression of these markers identified a subset of human medulloblastomas associated with a poorer clinical outcome.
Assessment of molecular defects that underlie cognitive deficits observed in mendelian disorders provides a unique opportunity to identify key regulators of human cognition. Congenital Myotonic Dystrophy 1 (cDM1), a multi-system disorder is characterized by both cognitive deficits and a spectrum of behavioral abnormalities, which include visuo-spatial memory deficits, anxiety and apathy. Decreased levels of DMPK (Dystrophia Myotonica-protein kinase), SIX5, a transcription factor or MBNL1 (Muscleblind-like 1), an RNA splice regulator have been demonstrated to contribute to distinct features of cDM1. Mouse strains in which either Dmpk, Six5 or Mbnl1 are inactivated were therefore studied to determine the relative contribution of each gene to these cognitive functions. The open field and elevated plus maze tasks were used to examine anxiety, sucrose consumption was used to assess motivation, whereas the water maze and context fear conditioning were used to examine spatial learning and memory. Cognitive and behavioral abnormalities were observed only in Mbnl1 deficient mice, which demonstrate behavior consistent with motivational deficits in the Morris water maze, a complex visuo-spatial task and in the sucrose consumption test for anhedonia. All three models of cDM1 exhibit normal spatial learning and memory. These data identify MBNL1 as a potential regulator of emotional state with decreased MBNL1 levels underlying the motivational deficits observed in cDM1.
Previous animal research has revealed neuronal activity underlying short-term retention of vibrotactile stimuli, providing evidence for a parametric representation of stimulus frequency in primate tactile working memory (Romo et al., 1999). Here, we investigated the neural correlates of vibrotactile frequency processing in human working memory, using noninvasive electroencephalography (EEG). Participants judged the frequencies of vibrotactile stimuli delivered to the fingertip in a delayed match-to-sample frequency discrimination task. As expected, vibrotactile stimulation elicited pronounced steady-state evoked potentials, which were source-localized in primary somatosensory cortex. Furthermore, parametric analysis of induced EEG responses revealed that the frequency of stimulation was reflected by systematic modulations of synchronized oscillatory activity in nonprimary cortical areas. Stimulus processing was accompanied by frequency-dependent alpha-band responses (8-12 Hz) over dorsal occipital cortex. The critical new finding was that, throughout the retention interval, the stimulus frequency held in working memory was systematically represented by a modulation in prefrontal beta activity (20-25 Hz), which was source-localized to the inferior frontal gyrus. This modulation in oscillatory activity during stimulus retention was related to successful frequency discrimination, thus reflecting behaviorally relevant information. Together, the results complement previous findings of parametric working memory correlates in nonhuman primates and suggest that the quantitative representation of vibrotactile frequency in sensory memory entails systematic modulations of synchronized neural activity in human prefrontal cortex.
The human cerebellum contains approximately half of all the neurons within the cerebrum, yet most experimental work in human neuroscience over the last century has focused exclusively on the structure and functions of the forebrain. The cerebellum has an undisputed role in a range of motor functions (Thach et al., 1992), but its potential contributions to sensory and cognitive processes are widely debated (Stoodley and Schmahmann, 2009). Here we used functional magnetic resonance imaging to test the hypothesis that the human cerebellum is involved in the acquisition of auditory and visual sensory data. We monitored neural activity within the cerebellum while participants engaged in a task that required them to discriminate the direction of a visual or auditory motion signal in noise. We identified a distinct set of cerebellar regions that were differentially activated for visual stimuli (vermal lobule VI and right-hemispheric lobule X) and auditory stimuli (right-hemispheric lobules VIIIA and VIIIB and hemispheric lobule VI bilaterally). In addition, we identified a region in left crus I in which activity correlated significantly with increases in the perceptual demands of the task (i.e., with decreasing signal strength), for both auditory and visual stimuli. Our results support suggestions of a role for the cerebellum in the processing of auditory and visual motion and suggest that parts of cerebellar cortex are concerned with tracking movements of objects around the animal, rather than with controlling movements of the animal itself (Paulin, 1993).
Imprinting behavior in birds is elicited by visual and/or auditory cues. It has been demonstrated previously that visual cues are recognized and processed in the visual Wulst (VW), and imprinting memory is stored in the intermediate medial mesopallium (IMM) of the telencephalon. Alteration of neural responses in these two regions according to imprinting has been reported, yet direct evidence of the neural circuit linking these two regions is lacking. Thus, it remains unclear how memory is formed and expressed in this circuit. Here, we present anatomical as well as physiological evidence of the neural circuit connecting the VW and IMM and show that imprinting training during the critical period strengthens and refines this circuit. A functional connection established by imprint training resulted in an imprinting behavior. After the closure of the critical period, training could not activate this circuit nor induce the imprinting behavior. Glutamatergic neurons in the ventroposterior region of the VW, the core region of the hyperpallium densocellulare (HDCo), sent their axons to the periventricular part of the HD, just dorsal and afferent to the IMM. We found that the HDCo is important in imprinting behavior. The refinement and/or enhancement of this neural circuit are attributed to increased activity of HDCo cells, and the activity depended on NR2B-containing NMDA receptors. These findings show a neural connection in the telencephalon in Aves and demonstrate that NR2B function is indispensable for the plasticity of HDCo cells, which are key mediators of imprinting.
AMPA receptors are ligand-gated ion channels that show multiple conductance levels, indicating that gating of individual AMPA subunits is to some extent independent of the other subunits. To study AMPAR subunit interactions during activation gating, we recorded from single channels in the absence of channel block and desensitization and at negative and positive membrane potentials. In saturating glutamate, the relative occupancies of the various conductance levels are consistent with complete subunit independence. In contrast, the relative occupancies in subsaturating glutamate indicate that the channel switches between a low open probability mode and a high open probability mode in which the behavior of the channel is identical to that in saturating glutamate. These gating modes occur at both negative and positive potentials, with the high open probability mode becoming more prominent at positive potentials. The switch between gating modes and its modulation by voltage and other factors may constitute a novel mechanism regulating AMPAR-mediated synaptic activity.
Many Ig superfamily members are expressed in the developing nervous system, but the functions of these molecules during neurogenesis are not all clear. Here, we explore the expression and function of one of members of this superfamily, protogenin (PRTG), in the developing nervous system. Expression of PRTG protein is strong in the neural tube of mouse embryos between embryonic days 7.75 and 9.5 but disappears after embryonic day 10.5 when the neural progenitor marker nestin expresses prominently. Perturbation of PRTG activity in P19 embryonal carcinoma cells and in chick embryos, by either RNA interference or a dominant-negative PRTG mutant, increases neuronal differentiation. Using yeast two-hybrid screening and an in situ binding assay, we were able to identify ERdj3 (a stress-inducible endoplasmic reticulum DnaJ homolog) as a putative PRTG ligand. Addition of purified ERdj3 protein into the P19 differentiation assay reduced neurogenesis. This effect was blocked by addition of either a neutralizing antibody against PRTG or purified PRTG ectodomain protein, indicating that the effect of ERdj3 on neurogenesis is mediated through PRTG. Forced expression of ERdj3 in the chick neural tube also impairs neuronal differentiation. Together, these results suggest that expression of PRTG defines a stage between pluripotent epiblasts and committed neural progenitors, and its signaling plays a critical role in suppressing premature neuronal differentiation during early neural development.
Cross-sectional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies have long hypothesized that the brain in children with autism undergoes an abnormal growth trajectory that includes a period of early overgrowth; however, this has never been confirmed by a longitudinal study. We performed the first longitudinal study of brain growth in toddlers at the time symptoms of autism are becoming clinically apparent using structural MRI scans at multiple time points beginning at 1.5 years up to 5 years of age. We collected 193 scans on 41 toddlers who received a confirmed diagnosis of autistic disorder at approximately 48 months of age and 44 typically developing controls. By 2.5 years of age, both cerebral gray and white matter were significantly enlarged in toddlers with autistic disorder, with the most severe enlargement occurring in frontal, temporal, and cingulate cortices. In the longitudinal analyses, which we accounted for age and gender effect, we found that all regions (cerebral gray, cerebral white, frontal gray, temporal gray, cingulate gray, and parietal gray) except occipital gray developed at an abnormal growth rate in toddlers with autistic disorder that was mainly characterized by a quadratic age effect. Females with autistic disorder displayed a more pronounced abnormal growth profile in more brain regions than males with the disorder. Given that overgrowth clearly begins before 2 years of age, future longitudinal studies would benefit from inclusion of even younger populations as well as further characterization of genetic and other biomarkers to determine the underlying neuropathological processes causing the onset of autistic symptoms.
We previously demonstrated that dorsal hippocampal extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) activation is necessary for 17beta-estradiol (E(2)) to enhance novel object recognition in young ovariectomized mice (Fernandez et al., 2008). Here, we asked whether E(2) has similar memory-enhancing effects in middle-aged and aged ovariectomized mice, and whether these effects depend on ERK and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/Akt activation. We first demonstrated that intracerebroventricular or intrahippocampal E(2) infusion immediately after object recognition training enhanced memory consolidation in middle-aged, but not aged, females. The E(2)-induced enhancement in middle-aged females was blocked by intrahippocampal inhibition of ERK or PI3K activation. Intrahippocampal or intracerebroventricular E(2) infusion in middle-aged females increased phosphorylation of p42 ERK in the dorsal hippocampus 15 min, but not 5 min, after infusion, an effect that was blocked by intrahippocampal inhibition of ERK or PI3K activation. Dorsal hippocampal PI3K and Akt phosphorylation was increased 5 min after intrahippocampal or intracerebroventricular E(2) infusion in middle-aged, but not aged, females. Intracerebroventricular E(2) infusion also increased PI3K phosphorylation after 15 min, and this effect was blocked by intrahippocampal PI3K, but not ERK, inhibition. These data demonstrate for the first time that activation of dorsal hippocampal PI3K/Akt and ERK signaling pathways is necessary for E(2) to enhance object recognition memory in middle-aged females. They also reveal that similar dorsal hippocampal signaling pathways mediate E(2)-induced object recognition memory enhancement in young and middle-aged females and that the inability of E(2) to activate these pathways may underlie its failure to enhance object recognition in aged females.
The preoptic area/anterior hypothalamus, a region that contains neurons that control thermoregulation, is the main locus at which histamine affects body temperature. Here we report that histamine reduced the spontaneous firing rate of GABAergic preoptic neurons by activating H3 subtype histamine receptors. This effect involved a decrease in the level of phosphorylation of the extracellular signal-regulated kinase and was not dependent on synaptic activity. Furthermore, a population of non-GABAergic neurons was depolarized, and their firing rate was enhanced by histamine acting at H1 subtype receptors. In our experiments, activation of the H1R receptors was linked to the PLC pathway and Ca(2+) release from intracellular stores. This depolarization persisted in TTX or when fast synaptic potentials were blocked, indicating that it represents a postsynaptic effect. Single-cell reverse transcription-PCR analysis revealed expression of H3 receptors in a population of GABAergic neurons, while H1 receptors were expressed in non-GABAergic cells. Histamine applied in the median preoptic nucleus induced a robust, long-lasting hyperthermia effect that was mimicked by either H1 or H3 histamine receptor subtype-specific agonists. Our data indicate that histamine modulates the core body temperature by acting at two distinct populations of preoptic neurons that express H1 and H3 receptor subtypes, respectively.
Dact1 (Dapper/Frodo), an intracellular phosphoprotein that binds Dishevelled, catenins, and other signaling proteins, is expressed in the developing and mature mammalian CNS, but its function there is unknown. Dact1 colocalized with synaptic markers and partitioned to postsynaptic fractions from cultured mouse forebrain neurons. Hippocampal neurons from Dact1 knock-out mice had simpler dendritic arbors and fewer spines than hippocampal neurons from wild-type littermates. This correlated with reductions in excitatory synapses and miniature EPSCs, whereas inhibitory synapses were not affected. Loss of Dact1 resulted in a decrease in activated Rac, and recombinant expression of either Dact1 or constitutively active Rac, but not Rho or Cdc42, rescued dendrite and spine phenotypes in Dact1 mutant neurons. Our findings suggest that, during neuronal differentiation, Dact1 plays a critical role in a molecular pathway promoting Rac activity underlying the elaboration of dendrites and the establishment of spines and excitatory synapses.
Anticipating the timing of future events is a necessary precursor to preparing actions and allocating resources to sensory processing. This requires elapsed time to be represented in the brain and used to predict the temporal probability of upcoming events. While neuropsychological, imaging, magnetic stimulation studies, and single-unit recordings implicate the role of higher parietal and motor-related areas in temporal estimation, the role of earlier, purely sensory structures remains more controversial. Here we demonstrate that the temporal probability of expected visual events is encoded not by a single area but by a wide network that importantly includes neuronal populations at the very earliest cortical stages of visual processing. Moreover, we show that activity in those areas changes dynamically in a manner that closely accords with temporal expectations.
Cortical rhythms in the alpha/mu frequency range (7-12 Hz) have been variously related to &quot;idling,&quot; anticipation, seizure, and short-term or working memory. This overabundance of interpretations suggests that sensory cortex may be able to produce more than one (and even more than two) distinct alpha/mu rhythms. Here we describe simultaneous local field potential and single-neuron recordings made from primary sensory (gustatory) cortex of awake rats and reveal three distinct 7-12 Hz de novo network rhythms within single sessions: an &quot;early,&quot; taste-induced approximately 11 Hz rhythm, the first peak of which was a short-latency gustatory evoked potential; a &quot;late,&quot; significantly lower-frequency (approximately 7 Hz) rhythm that replaced this first rhythm at approximately 750-850 ms after stimulus onset (consistently timed with a previously described shift in taste temporal codes); and a &quot;spontaneous&quot; spike-and-wave rhythm of intermediate peak frequency (approximately 9 Hz) that appeared late in the session, as part of a oft-described reduction in arousal/attention. These rhythms proved dissociable on many grounds: in addition to having different peak frequencies, amplitudes, and shapes and appearing at different time points (although often within single 3 s snippets of activity), the early and late rhythms proved to have completely uncorrelated session-to-session variability, and the spontaneous rhythm affected the early rhythm only (having no impact on the late rhythm). Analysis of spike-to-wave coupling suggested that the early and late rhythms are a unified part of discriminative taste process: the identity of phase-coupled single-neuron ensembles differed from taste to taste, and coupling typically lasted across the change in frequency. These data reveal that even rhythms confined to a narrow frequency band may still have distinct properties.
Our ability to choose nonhabitual controlled behavior instead of habitual automatic behavior is based on a flexible control mechanism subserved by neural activity representing the behavior-guiding rule. However, it has been shown that the behavior slows down more when switching from controlled to automatic behavior than vice versa. Here we show that persistent effective connectivity of the neural network after execution of controlled behavior is responsible for the behavioral slowing on a subsequent trial. We asked normal human subjects to perform a prosaccade or antisaccade task based on a cue and examined the effective connectivity of the neural network based on the pattern of neural impulse transmission induced by stimulation of the frontal eye field (FEF). Effective connectivity during the task preparation period was dependent on the task that subjects had performed on the previous trial, regardless of the upcoming task. The strength of this persistent effective connectivity was associated with saccade slowing especially on trials after controlled antisaccade. In contrast, the pattern of regional activation changed depending on the upcoming task regardless of the previous task and the decrease in activation was associated with errors in upcoming antisaccade task. These results suggest that the effective connectivity examined by FEF stimulation reflects a residual functional state of the network involved in performance of controlled antisaccade and its persistence may account for the behavioral slowing on the subsequent trial.
Schwann cells are a promising candidate for bridging spinal cord injuries and remyelinating axons. However, grafted Schwann cells show little intermingling with host astrocytes and therefore limited migration from transplant sites. This leads to the formation of a sharp border between host astrocytes and Schwann cells, which results in axons stalling at the graft-host interface and failing to exit the graft. We investigated the possibility that Eph/ephrin interactions are involved in the segregation of Schwann cells and astrocytes and in limiting Schwann cell migration. Using reverse transcription-PCR, we have characterized the ephrin and Eph profile in cultured Schwann cells and astrocytes, showing that astrocytes produce all the ephrinAs and Schwann cells produce the receptors EphA2, EphA4, and EphA7. Several ephrinAs inhibit Schwann cell migration on laminin, with ephrinA5 being the most effective. Blocking the EphA receptors with excess EphA4-Fc increases Schwann cell migration on astrocytes and improves Schwann-astrocyte intermingling. We show that the action of ephrinA5 on Schwann cells is mediated via VAV2. Both clustered ephrinA5 and astrocyte contact increases the phosphorylation of VAV2 in Schwann cells. Knockdown of VAV2 abrogates the inhibitory effect of clustered ephrinA5 on migration and increases the ability of Schwann cells to migrate on astrocytes. In addition, we found a role for ephrinA5 in inhibiting Schwann cell integrin signaling and function. Overall, we suggest that Eph/ephrin interactions inhibit Schwann cell migration and intermingling with astrocytes via VAV signaling affecting integrin function.
Apoptosis of neurons in the maturing neocortex has been recorded in a wide variety of mammals, but very little is known about its effects on cortical differentiation. Recent research has implicated the RhoA GTPase subfamily in the control of apoptosis in the developing nervous system and in other tissue types. Rho GTPases are important components of the signaling pathways linking extracellular signals to the cytoskeleton. To investigate the role of the RhoA GTPase subfamily in neocortical apoptosis and differentiation, we have engineered a mouse line in which a dominant-negative RhoA mutant (N19-RhoA) is expressed from the Mapt locus, such that all neurons of the developing nervous system are expressing the N19-RhoA inhibitor. Postnatal expression of N19-RhoA led to no major changes in neocortical anatomy. Six layers of the neocortex developed and barrels (whisker-related neural modules) formed in layer IV. However, the density and absolute number of neurons in the somatosensory cortex increased by 12-26% compared with wild-type littermates. This was not explained by a change in the migration of neurons during the formation of cortical layers but rather by a large decrease in the amount of neuronal apoptosis at postnatal day 5, the developmental maximum of cortical apoptosis. In addition, overexpression of RhoA in cortical neurons was seen to cause high levels of apoptosis. These results demonstrate that RhoA-subfamily members play a major role in developmental apoptosis in postnatal neocortex of the mouse but that decreased apoptosis does not alter cortical cytoarchitecture and patterning.
During mitotic division in the telencephalic proliferative ventricular zone (VZ), the nuclei of the neural precursors move basally away from the ventricular surface for DNA synthesis, and apically return to the surface for mitotic division; a process known as interkinetic migration or &quot;to-and-fro&quot; nuclear translocation. The cell, which remains attached to the ventricular surface, either continues cycling, or exits the cycle and migrates to the subventricular zone or the developing cortical plate. Although gap junctions/hemichannels are known to modulate DNA synthesis via Ca(2+) waves, the role of Ca(+) oscillations and the mechanism of nuclear translocation in the VZ precursors are unclear. Here, we provide evidence that, during apical nuclear migration, VZ precursors display dynamic spontaneous Ca(2+) transients, which depend on functional gap junctions/hemichannels via ATP release and Ca(2+)-mobilizing messenger diffusion. Furthermore, we found that blocking gap junctions/hemichannels or short hairpin RNA-mediated knockdown of Cx43 (connexin 43) retards the apically directed interkinetic nuclear migration accompanied with changes in the nuclear length/width ratio. In addition, we demonstrated that blocking functional gap junctions/hemichannels induces phosphorylation of small GTPase cdc42 in the VZ precursors. The basal phase of interkinetic migration is much slower and appears to be mediated passively by mechanical forces after cell division. Our findings indicate that functional interference with gap junctions/hemichannels during embryonic development may lead to abnormal corticogenesis and dysfunction of the cerebral cortex in adult organisms.



Recent advances in cognitive-social neuroscience allow a better understanding of the mechanisms underlying dyadic relationships. From a neuronal viewpoint, desire in dyadic relationships involves a specific fronto-temporo-parietal network and also a subcortical network that mediates conscious and unconscious mechanisms of reward, satisfaction, attention, self representation and self-expansion. The integration of this neuroscientific knowledge on the unconscious neurobiological activation for sexual desire in the human brain will provide physicians with new therapeutical and neuroscientific tools to apprehend sexual disorders in couple.

Recognition molecules of the immunoglobulin (Ig) superfamily control axon guidance in the developing nervous system. Ig-like domains are among the most widely represented protein domains in the human genome, and the number of Ig superfamily proteins is strongly correlated with cellular complexity. In Drosophila, three Roundabout (Robo) Ig superfamily receptors respond to their common Slit ligand to regulate axon guidance at the midline: Robo and Robo2 mediate midline repulsion, Robo2 and Robo3 control longitudinal pathway selection, and Robo2 can promote midline crossing. How these closely related receptors mediate distinct guidance functions is not understood. We report that the differential functions of Robo2 and Robo3 are specified by their ectodomains and do not reflect differences in cytoplasmic signaling. Functional modularity of Robo2's ectodomain facilitates multiple guidance decisions: Ig1 and Ig3 of Robo2 confer lateral positioning activity, whereas Ig2 confers promidline crossing activity. Robo2's distinct functions are not dependent on greater Slit affinity but are instead due in part to differences in multimerization and receptor-ligand stoichiometry conferred by Robo2's Ig domains. Together, our findings suggest that diverse responses to the Slit guidance cue are imparted by intrinsic structural differences encoded in the extracellular Ig domains of the Robo receptors.
Because our eyes are set apart horizontally in our head, most disparities between the retinal images are horizontal. However, vertical disparities also occur, and can influence depth perception. The classic example is Ogle's induced effect (K. N. Ogle, 1938), in which applying a uniform vertical magnification to one eye's image produces the illusion that the surface has been rotated around a vertical axis. This is thought to be because uniform vertical magnifications can be produced in natural viewing when the eyes are in eccentric gaze (J. E. Mayhew, 1982; J. E. Mayhew &amp; H. C. Longuet-Higgins, 1982). Thus, vertical magnification is taken by the visual system as indicating that the viewed surface is slanted away from the line of sight. Here, we demonstrate that the induced effect becomes stronger when the sign of the magnification alternates across the visual field. That is, as one moves horizontally across the screen, the left eye's image is alternately stretched and squashed vertically relative to the right eye's image, producing the illusion of a surface folded into triangular corrugations (H. Kaneko &amp; I. P. Howard, 1997). For most subjects, slant judgments in this folded surface have lower thresholds and greater reliability than the classic induced effect, where magnification is applied uniformly across the whole visual field. This is remarkable, given that the disparity pattern of the classic induced effect can be produced by real surfaces with the eyes in eccentric gaze, whereas it is not clear that stripes of alternating vertical disparity could be produced by any physically realizable situation. The analogous improvement for alternating horizontal magnification is attributed to neuronal mechanisms which detect the jumps in horizontal disparity that occur at object boundaries. Our results suggest that a similar, previously unreported system may exist for vertical disparity. Jumps in vertical disparity do occur at object boundaries, and we suggest that our surprising results may reflect the activation of neuronal mechanisms designed to detect these.
The infralimbic cortex (IL) regulates the consolidation of extinction learning for fear conditioning. Whether the IL influences the consolidation of extinction learning for cocaine self-administration is unknown. To address this issue, male Sprague-Dawley rats underwent 2 wk of cocaine self-administration followed by extinction training. On the first 5 d of extinction, rats underwent brief (15- or 30-min) extinction sessions and received intra-IL microinjections immediately after each extinction session. On days 6-12 of extinction, rats underwent full-length (2-h) extinction sessions that were used to assess the retention of the extinction learning from the short sessions. IL inactivation via microinjections of the GABA agonists baclofen and muscimol (BM) immediately after the extinction sessions (days 1-5) impaired the retention of extinction learning. Control experiments demonstrated that this effect was not due to inactivation of the prelimbic cortex or due to effects of the drugs on the subsequent day's behavior. In contrast, post-training intra-IL microinjections of the allosteric AMPA receptor potentiator 4-[2-(phenylsulfonylamino)ethylthio]-2,6-difluorophenoxyacetamide (PEPA) enhanced retention of the extinction learning. As evidence suggests a role for the beta-adrenergic receptors in memory consolidation, other rats received microinjections of the beta(2)-adrenergic receptor agonist clenbuterol or antagonist ICI-118,551 (ICI). Post-training intra-IL administration of clenbuterol or pre-training administration of ICI enhanced or impaired, respectively, the retention of extinction learning. These data indicate that the IL, and specifically the glutamatergic and beta-adrenergic systems in the IL, regulates the consolidation of extinction of cocaine self-administration and that the IL can be manipulated to influence the retention of extinction.
The involvement of epigenetic alterations in mediating effects of estrogens on memory is unknown. The present study determined whether histone acetylation and DNA methylation are critical for the potent estrogen 17beta-estradiol (E(2)) to enhance object recognition memory. We show that dorsal hippocampal E(2) infusion increases acetylation of dorsal hippocampal histone H3, but not H4--an effect blocked by dorsal hippocampal inhibition of ERK activation. Further, intrahippocampal inhibition of ERK activation or DNA methyltransferase (DNMT) activity blocked the memory-enhancing effects of E(2). Consistent with these effects, E(2) decreased levels of HDAC2 protein and increased DNMT expression in the dorsal hippocampus. These findings provide evidence that the beneficial effects of E(2) on memory consolidation are associated with epigenetic alterations, and suggest these can be triggered by dorsal hippocampal ERK signaling.
A defect in the maternal copy of a ubiqutin ligase gene Ube3a can produce a neurodevelopmental defect in human children known as Angelman syndrome. We investigated the role of the maternally expressed Ube3a gene in experience-dependent development and plasticity of the mouse visual system. As demonstrated by optical imaging, rapid ocular dominance (OD) plasticity after brief monocular deprivation (MD) was severely impaired during the critical period (CP) in the visual cortex (VC) of Ube3a maternal-deficient (m-/p+) mice. Prolonged MD elicited significant plasticity in m-/p+ mice that never matched the level seen in control animals. In older animals after the CP, 7-day MD elicited mild OD shifts in both control and m-/p+ mice; however, the OD shifts in m-/p+ mice lacked the strengthening of visual responses to the two eyes characteristic of normal adult plasticity. Anatomic effects of the maternal deficiency include reduced spine density on basal, but not apical, dendrites of pyramidal neurons in the binocular region of the VC. Imprinting of Ube3a expression was not fully established in the early postnatal period, consistent with the normal development of cortical retinotopy and visual acuity that we observed in m-/p+ mice, but was fully established by the onset of the CP. These results demonstrate that paternal and maternal genomes are not functionally equivalent for cortical plasticity, and that maternally expressed Ube3a is required for normal experience-dependent modification of cortical circuits during and after the CP.
Neuregulin-1 (NRG1) and Disrupted-in-Schizophrenia-1 (DISC1) are promising susceptibility factors for schizophrenia. Both are multifunctional proteins with roles in a variety of neurodevelopmental processes, including progenitor cell proliferation, migration, and differentiation. Here, we provide evidence linking these factors together in a single pathway, which is mediated by ErbB receptors and PI3K/Akt. We show that signaling by NRG1 and NRG2, but not NRG3, increase expression of an isoform of DISC1 in vitro. Receptors ErbB2 and ErbB3, but not ErbB4, are responsible for transducing this effect, and PI3K/Akt signaling is also required. In NRG1 knockout mice, this DISC1 isoform is selectively reduced during neurodevelopment. Furthermore, a similar decrease in DISC1 expression is seen in beta-site amyloid precursor protein cleaving enzyme-1 (BACE1) knockout mice, in which NRG1/Akt signaling is reportedly impaired. In contrast to neuronal DISC1 that was reported and characterized, expression of DISC1 in other types of cells in the brain has not been addressed. Here we demonstrate that DISC1, like NRG and ErbB proteins, is expressed in neurons, astrocytes, oligodendrocytes, microglia, and radial progenitors. These findings may connect NRG1, ErbBs, Akt, and DISC1 in a common pathway, which may regulate neurodevelopment and contribute to susceptibility to schizophrenia.
The calcium ion (Ca(2+)) plays fundamental roles in orchestrating dynamic changes in the function and structure of nerve cell circuits in the brain. The endoplasmic reticulum (ER), an organelle that actively removes Ca(2+) from the cytoplasm, can release stored Ca(2+) through ER membrane receptor channels responsive either to the lipid messenger inositol trisphosphate (IP(3)) or to cytosolic Ca(2+). Emerging findings suggest that perturbed ER Ca(2+) homeostasis contributes to the dysfunction and degeneration of neurons that occurs in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Presenilin-1 (PS1) is an integral membrane protein in the ER; mutations in PS1 that cause early-onset inherited AD increase the pool of ER Ca(2+) available for release and also enhance Ca(2+) release through ER IP(3)- and ryanodine-sensitive channels. By enhancing Ca(2+) flux across the ER membrane, PS1 mutations may exaggerate Ca(2+) signaling in synaptic terminals and thereby render them vulnerable to dysfunction and degeneration in the settings of aging and amyloid accumulation in AD.


Freezing of gait (FOG) in Parkinson's disease (PD) rises in prevalence when the effect of medications decays. It is known that auditory rhythmic stimulation improves gait in patients without FOG (PD-FOG), but its putative effect on patients with FOG (PD+FOG) at the end of dose has not been evaluated yet. This work evaluates the effect of auditory rhythmic stimulation on PD+FOG at the end of dose. 10 PD+FOG and 9 PD-FOG patients both at the end of dose periods, and 10 healthy controls were asked to perform several walking tasks. Tasks were performed in the presence and absence of auditory sensory stimulation. All PD+FOG suffered FOG during the task. The presence of auditory rhythmic stimulation (10% above preferred walking cadence) led PD+FOG to significantly reduce FOG. Velocity and cadence were increased, and turn time reduced in all groups. We conclude that auditory stimulation at the frequency proposed may be useful to avoid freezing episodes in PD+FOG.
That creativity and psychopathology are somehow linked remains a popular but controversial idea in neuroscience research. Brain regions implicated in both psychosis-proneness and creative cognition include frontal projection zones and association fibers. In normal subjects, we have previously demonstrated that a composite measure of divergent thinking (DT) ability exhibited significant inverse relationships in frontal lobe areas with both cortical thickness and metabolite concentration of N-acetyl-aspartate (NAA). These findings support the idea that creativity may reside upon a continuum with psychopathology. Here we examine whether white matter integrity, assessed by Fractional Anisotropy (FA), is related to two measures of creativity (Divergent Thinking and Openness to Experience). Based on previous findings, we hypothesize inverse correlations within fronto-striatal circuits. Seventy-two healthy, young adult (18-29 years) subjects were scanned on a 3 Tesla scanner with Diffusion Tensor Imaging. DT measures were scored by four raters (alpha = .81) using the Consensual Assessment Technique, from which a composite creativity index (CCI) was derived. We found that the CCI was significantly inversely related to FA within the left inferior frontal white matter (t = 5.36, p = .01), and Openness was inversely related to FA within the right inferior frontal white matter (t = 4.61, p = .04). These findings demonstrate an apparent overlap in specific white matter architecture underlying the normal variance of divergent thinking, openness, and psychotic-spectrum traits, consistent with the idea of a continuum.
Focal cerebral ischemia following middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) stimulates a robust cytogenic response from the adult subventricular zone (SVZ) that includes massive proliferation of neural stem/progenitor cells (NSPCs) and cellular migration into the injury area. To begin to explore beneficial roles of NSPCs in this response, we investigated the ability of embryonic and postnatal NSPCs to promote neuronal survival under conditions of in vivo and in vitro ischemia. Intracerebral transplantation of NSPCs attenuated neuronal apoptosis in response to focal ischemia induced by transient MCAO, and prevented neuronal cell death of cortical neurons in response to oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD) in culture. NSPC-mediated neuroprotection was blocked by the pharmacological inhibitors of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), SU1498 and Flt-1Fc. Embryonic and postnatal NSPCs were both intrinsically resistant to brief OGD exposure, and constitutively expressed both hypoxia-inducible factor 1alpha (HIF-1alpha) transcription factor and its downstream target, VEGF. Genomic deletion of HIF-1alpha by Cre-mediated excision of exon 2 in NSPC cultures resulted in &gt;50% reduction of VEGF production and ablation of NSPC-mediated neuroprotection. These findings indicate that NSPCs promote neuronal survival under ischemic conditions via HIF-1alpha-VEGF signaling pathways and support a role for NSPCs in promotion of neuronal survival following stroke.
We previously indicated that amyloid beta (Abeta) augments protein levels of beta-site amyloid precursor protein cleaving enzyme-1 (BACE-1) through oxidative stress. In this study, we revealed that BACE-1 is involved in the cleavage of membrane-bound prostaglandin E2 synthase-2 (mPGES-2) in its N-terminal portion, which, in turn, enhanced the generation of prostaglandin E2 (PGE2). PGE2 results in increased Abeta production, initiating a cell-injuring cycle. Using rat primary cortical neurons, a 48 h treatment with Abeta 1-42 (5 microM) resulted in the enhanced extracellular PGE2 levels up to about 1 ng/mL, which was attenuated by treatment with a BACE-1 inhibitor (200 nM). A synthetic peptide sequence of 20-amino acids that included the cleavage site of mPGES-2 (HTARWHL RAQDLHERS AAQLSLSS) was cleaved by recombinant BACE-1, confirmed using reverse-phase high-performance liquid chromatography. Cleaved or activated mPGES-2 augments the generation of PGE2. In addition, mPGES-2 was determined to be colocalized with BACE-1 and cyclooxygenase-2 in the perinuclear region in cells after exposure to Abeta. Exposure of neurons to PGE2 led to cell death, and Abeta production was enhanced by PGE2 (1 ng/mL, 48 h). Collectively, these results suggest that Abeta might cause neuroinflammation that aggravates Alzheimer's disease pathogenesis.
Previous biochemical, cardiovascular and behavioral work has given evidence for the existence of antagonistic galanin receptor-5-HT1A receptor interactions in the brain. In this study we investigated the existence of GalR1-5-HT1A receptor heteromers and their functional characteristics. In mammalian cells transfected with GFP2-tagged 5-HT1A receptor and YFP-tagged GalR1 receptor, a proximity-based fluorescence resonance energy transfer technique was used and it has been demonstrated that GalR1-5-HT1A receptors heteromerize. Furthermore, signaling by either the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) or adenylyl cyclase (AC) pathways by these heteromers indicates a trans-inhibition phenomenon through their interacting interface via allosteric mechanisms that block the development of an excessive activation of G(i/o) and an exaggerated inhibition of AC or stimulation of MAPK activity. The presence of these heteromers in the discrete brain regions is postulated based on the existence of GalR-5-HT1A receptor-receptor interactions previously described in the brain and gives rise to explore possible novel therapeutic strategies for treatment of depression by targeting the GalR1-5-HT1A heteromers.
Global ischemia arising during cardiac arrest or cardiac surgery causes highly selective, delayed death of hippocampal CA1 neurons. Exogenous estradiol ameliorates global ischemia-induced neuronal death and cognitive impairment in male and female rodents. However, the molecular mechanisms by which a single acute injection of estradiol administered after the ischemic event intervenes in global ischemia-induced apoptotic cell death are unclear. Here we show that acute estradiol acts via the phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)/protein kinase B (Akt) signaling cascade to protect CA1 neurons in ovariectomized female rats. We demonstrate that global ischemia promotes early activation of glycogen synthase kinase-3beta (GSK3beta) and forkhead transcription factor of the O class (FOXO)3A, known Akt targets that are related to cell survival, and activation of caspase-3. Estradiol prevents ischemia-induced dephosphorylation and activation of GSK3beta and FOXO3A, and the caspase death cascade. These findings support a model whereby estradiol acts by activation of PI3K/Akt signaling to promote neuronal survival in the face of global ischemia.
Primary sensory cortical areas continuously receive thalamic inputs that arrive at different frequencies depending on the amount of sensory activity. The cortical response to repeated sensory stimuli rapidly adapts and different frequencies recruit cortical neuronal networks to different extents. GABAergic inhibition limits the spread of excitation within cortical neuronal networks. However, it is unknown how frequency adaptation of cortical network activity at different frequencies is shaped by GABAergic inhibition. Here, we find that in acute slices of visual cortex area V1 GABAergic inhibition affects frequency adaptation depending on the frequency of activity. Using voltage-sensitive dye imaging, we found that while increasing inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) with flunitrazepam dampened the spread of cortical excitation, short-term adaptations to different stimulation frequencies were differentially affected. At high frequencies (40 Hz), facilitation of cortical excitation was no longer transient, but facilitation was sustained. At low frequencies (10 Hz) flunitrazepam decreased a depression of the excitation. In contrast, in mice lacking the GABA(A) receptor alpha1 subunit facilitation was reduced and depression enhanced. These findings suggest that GABAergic inhibition affects cortical excitation at different frequencies differentially, favoring facilitation at higher frequencies of excitation.
Elevated brain levels of apolipoprotein D (ApoD) correlate with improved neurological recovery after experimental stroke. Hence, a pharmacological induction of ApoD in the postischemic brain could be beneficial for recovery after stroke. Here we investigated the effect of Clozapine, a compound that increases the expression of ApoD, in two rat models of experimental stroke. Rats were subjected to permanent occlusion of the middle cerebral artery (pMCAO) and treated with Clozapine (i.p. 10 mg/kg body weight) or saline for 8 or 28 days starting on the second day after MCAO. ApoD levels increased by 35% in the peri-infarct area after 10 and 30 days after pMCAO, mainly in neuron-specific nuclear protein (NeuN) positive neurons and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) positive astrocytes. Clozapine did not affect the neurological deficit assessed by the rotating pole test and a grip strength test at 7 days, 14 days, 21 days, and 28 days after pMCAO. Functional outcome and the infarct size were similar in rats subjected to transient MCAO and injected with Clozapine (i.p. 10 mg/kg body weight) or saline for 26 days starting on the second day after tMCAO. We conclude that Clozapine affects cellular processes involved in peri-infarct tissue reorganization, but does not affect functional recovery after MCAO.
The aim of the present study was to elucidate the effect of estrogen on dopaminergic and serotonergic regulation of prepulse inhibition (PPI) by measuring its effects on the density of dopamine transporters (DAT), dopamine D(1) and D(2) receptors, serotonin transporters (SERT), serotonin-1A (5-HT(1A)) and 5-HT(2A) receptors using radioligand binding autoradiography. Three groups of female Sprague-Dawley rats were compared: sham-operated controls, untreated ovariectomized (OVX) rats and OVX rats with a 17beta-estradiol implant (OVX+E). These groups were identical to our previous prepulse inhibition (PPI) studies, allowing comparison of the results. Results showed that in the nucleus accumbens, DAT levels were 44% lower in OVX rats than in intact controls. Estrogen treatment completely reversed the effect of OVX in this brain region to levels similar to those in intact controls. Dopamine D(2) receptor density was increased in OVX rats by 28% in the nucleus accumbens and 25% in the caudate nucleus compared to intact controls. Estrogen treatment reversed this increase and, in addition, reduced dopamine D(2) receptor levels by a further 25% and 20%, respectively, compared to intact control rats. There were no differences between the groups with respect to the densities of dopamine D(1) receptors, SERT, 5-HT(1A) receptors or 5-HT(2A) receptors. These results show effects of estrogen treatment on central indices of dopaminergic, but not serotonergic function. The observed changes do not provide a direct overlap with the effects of these estrogen treatment protocols on drug-induced disruptions of PPI, but it is possible that a combination of effects, i.e. on both DAT and dopamine D(2) receptor density, is involved. These data could also be relevant for our understanding of the potential protective effect of estrogen treatment in schizophrenia.
While benzene is widely recognized as a human and animal carcinogen, the key mechanisms underlying its carcinogenic effects remain unknown. Inhibition of topoisomerase II (topoII) by benzene and its metabolites represents a potential mechanism by which benzene could induce its chromosome-altering and leukemogenic effects. Previous work from our laboratory and others has demonstrated that bioactive benzene metabolites are capable of inhibiting topoII in isolated enzyme and cell culture systems. Similarly, a decrease in topoII activity has been seen in the bone marrow of mice administered benzene in vivo. The objective of these studies was to further investigate the mechanisms by which the bioactivated benzene metabolite, hydroquinone (BAHQ), inhibits topoII in vitro, and to identify the point(s) in the enzyme's catalytic cycle where inhibition occurs. Our experiments indicate that BAHQ inhibits topoII at the DNA binding stage as well as in the closed clamp stage in the catalytic cycle, thereby interfering with either the binding to, or the release of, DNA from the enzyme. While increases in the cleavable complex were also seen with BAHQ treatment, our results suggest that this is related to a shift in equilibrium due to an accumulation of the topoII enzyme at the closed clamp stage rather than a major inhibitory effect on the religation step. An increase in cleavable complex formation as well as the inhibition of enzymatic activity at the closed clamp and other stages of the catalytic cycle in bone marrow cells would likely result in DNA breakage, the formation of chromosomal aberrations, and could potentially result in leukemia-associated chromosomal translocations, similar to those seen in leukemias induced by the bisdioxopiperazine type of catalytic topoII inhibitors.
The effects of decylubiquinone, a ubiquinone analogue, on mitochondrial function and inhibition thresholds of the electron transport chain enzyme complexes in synaptosomes were investigated. Decylubiquinone increased complex I/III and complex II/III activities by 64 and 80%, respectively, and attenuated reductions in oxygen consumption at high concentrations of the complex III inhibitor myxothiazol. During inhibition of complex I, decylubiquinone attenuated reductions in synaptosomal oxygen respiration rates, as seen in the complex I inhibition threshold. Decylubiquinone increased the inhibition thresholds of complex I/III, complex II/III, and complex III over oxygen consumption in the nerve terminal by 25-50%, when myxothiazol was used to inhibit complex III. These results imply that decylubiquinone increases mitochondrial function in the nerve terminal during complex I or III inhibition. The potential benefits of decylubiquinone in diseases where complex I, I/III, II/III, or III activities are deficient are discussed.
Various NGR-containing peptides have been exploited for targeted delivery of drugs to CD13-positive tumor neovasculature. Recent studies have shown that compounds containing this motif can rapidly deamidate and generate isoaspartate-glycine-arginine (isoDGR), a ligand of alphavbeta3-integrin that can be also exploited for drug delivery to tumors. We have investigated the role of NGR and isoDGR peptide scaffolds on their biochemical and biological properties. Peptides containing the cyclic CNGRC sequence could bind CD13-positive endothelial cells more efficiently than those containing linear GNGRG. Peptide degradation studies showed that cyclic peptides mostly undergo NGR-to-isoDGR transition and CD13/integrin switching, whereas linear peptides mainly undergo degradation reactions involving the alpha-amino group, which generate non-functional six/seven-membered ring compounds, unable to bind alphavbeta3, and small amount of isoDGR. Structure-activity studies showed that cyclic isoDGR could bind alphavbeta3 with an affinity &gt;100-fold higher than that of linear isoDGR and inhibited endothelial cell adhesion and tumor growth more efficiently. Cyclic isoDGR could also bind other integrins (alphavbeta5, alphavbeta6, alphavbeta8, and alpha5beta1), although with 10-100-fold lower affinity. Peptide linearization caused loss of affinity for all integrins and loss of specificity, whereas alpha-amino group acetylation increased the affinity for all tested integrins, but caused loss of specificity. These results highlight the critical role of molecular scaffold on the biological properties of NGR/isoDGR peptides. These findings may have important implications for the design and development of anticancer drugs or tumor neovasculature-imaging compounds, and for the potential function of different NGR/isoDGR sites in natural proteins.
Large DNA viruses, such as herpesvirus and poxvirus, encode proteins that target and exploit the chemokine system of their host. UL146 and UL147 in the cytomegalovirus (CMV) genome encode the two CXC chemokines vCXCL1 and vCXCL2. In this study, vCXCL1 was probed against a panel of the 18 classified human chemokine receptors. In calcium mobilization assays vCXCL1 acted as an agonist on both CXCR1 and CXCR2 but did not activate or block any of the other 16 chemokine receptors. vCXCL1 was characterized and compared with CXCL1/GROalpha, CXCL2/GRObeta, CXCL3/GROgamma, CXCL5/ENA-78, CXCL6/GCP-2, CXCL7/NAP-2 and CXCL8/IL-8 in competition binding, calcium mobilization, inositol triphosphate turnover, and chemotaxis assays using CXCR1- and CXCR2-expressing Chinese hamster ovary, 300.19, COS7, and L1.2 cells. The affinities of vCXCL1 for the CXCR1 and CXCR2 receptors were 44 and 5.6 nm, respectively, as determined in competition binding against radioactively labeled CXCL8. In calcium mobilization, phosphatidylinositol turnover, and chemotaxis assays, vCXCL1 acted as a highly efficacious activator of both receptors, with a rather low potency for the CXCR1 receptor but comparable with CXCL5 and CXCL7. It is suggested that CMV uses the UL146 gene product expressed in infected endothelial cells to attract neutrophils by activating their CXCR1 and CXCR2 receptors, whereby neutrophils can act as carriers of the virus to uninfected endothelial cells. In that way a lasting pool of CMV-infected endothelial cells could be maintained.
Excitotoxicity is one of the main features responsible for neuronal cell death after acute brain injury and in several neurodegenerative disorders, for which only few therapeutic options are currently available. In this work, RNA interference was employed to identify and validate a potential target for successful treatment of excitotoxic brain injury, the transcription factor c-Jun. The nuclear translocation of c-Jun and its upregulation are early events following glutamate-induced excitotoxic damage in primary neuronal cultures. We present evidence for the efficient knockdown of this transcription factor using a non-viral vector consisting of cationic liposomes associated to transferrin (Tf-lipoplexes). Tf-lipoplexes were able to deliver anti-c-Jun siRNAs to neuronal cells in culture, resulting in efficient silencing of c-Jun mRNA and protein and in a significant decrease of cell death following glutamate-induced damage or oxygen-glucose deprivation. This formulation also leads to a significant c-Jun knockdown in the mouse hippocampus in vivo, resulting in the attenuation of both neuronal death and inflammation following kainic acid-mediated lesion of this region. Furthermore, a strong reduction of seizure activity and cytokine production was observed in animals treated with anti-c-Jun siRNAs. These findings demonstrate the efficient delivery of therapeutic siRNAs to the brain by Tf-lipoplexes and validate c-Jun as a promising therapeutic target in neurodegenerative disorders involving excitotoxic lesions.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by protein aggregates, i.e. senile plaques and neurofibrillary tangles. The ubiquitin-proteasome system has been proposed a role in proteolytic removal of these protein aggregates. Ubiquitin carboxy-terminal hydrolase L1 (UCHL1) is a de-ubiquitinating enzyme with important functions in recycling of ubiquitin. The S18Y polymorphism of the UCHL1 gene confers protection against Parkinson's disease. In this study, the genotype and allele frequencies of the UCHL1 S18Y polymorphism were investigated in 452 AD patients and 234 control subjects, recruited from four memory clinics in Sweden. Using a binary logistic regression model including UCHL1 allele A and APOE epsilon4 allele positivity, age and sex as covariates with AD diagnosis as dependent variable, an adjusted OR of 0.82 ([95% CI 0.55-1.24], P = 0.35) was obtained for a positive UCHL1 allele A carrier status. The present study thus do not support a protective effect of the UCHL1 S18Y polymorphism against AD.
In the last decades, few mechanistically novel therapeutic agents have been developed to treat mental and neurodegenerative disorders. Numerous studies suggest that targeting BDNF and its TrkB receptor could be a promising therapeutic strategy for the treatment of brain disorders. However, the development of potent small ligands for the TrkB receptor has proven to be difficult. By using a peptidomimetic approach, we developed a highly potent and selective TrkB inhibitor, cyclotraxin-B, capable of altering TrkB-dependent molecular and physiological processes such as synaptic plasticity, neuronal differentiation and BDNF-induced neurotoxicity. Cyclotraxin-B allosterically alters the conformation of TrkB, which leads to the inhibition of both BDNF-dependent and -independent (basal) activities. Finally, systemic administration of cyclotraxin-B to mice results in TrkB inhibition in the brain with specific anxiolytic-like behavioral effects and no antidepressant-like activity. This study demonstrates that cyclotraxin-B might not only be a powerful tool to investigate the role of BDNF and TrkB in physiology and pathology, but also represents a lead compound for the development of new therapeutic strategies to treat brain disorders.
Nerve Growth Factor (NGF)-induced neuronal differentiation requires the activation of members of the Rho family of small GTPases. However, the molecular mechanisms through which NGF regulates cytoskeletal changes and neurite outgrowth are not totally understood. In this work, we identify the Rac1-specific guanine exchange factor (GEF) Tiam1 as a novel mediator of NGF/TrkA-dependent neurite elongation. In particular, we report that knockdown of Tiam1 causes a significant reduction in Rac1 activity and neurite outgrowth induced by NGF. Physical interaction between Tiam1 and active Ras (Ras-GTP), but not tyrosine phosphorylation of Tiam1, plays a central role in Rac1 activation by NGF. In addition, our findings indicate that Ras is required to associate Tiam1 with Rac1 and promote Rac1 activation upon NGF stimulation. Taken together, these findings define a novel molecular mechanism through which Tiam1 mediates TrkA signaling and neurite outgrowth induced by NGF.



A role for prefrontal cortex has been proposed in systems consolidation of memory. The current study examined the effects of excitotoxic lesions of the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) in rats on acquisition and remote recall of socially transmitted food preferences (STFP). Subjects received excitotoxic lesions of the OFC, and they were trained on two food preferences. They were tested 1h after the first training session to determine the effect of the lesion on acquisition. The following day, they were trained on a second preference and tested 10 days later to determine the effect of the lesion on remote recall. OFC lesions did not impair either STFP acquisition or remote recall in comparisons with sham-operated animals. In addition, a subset of animals underwent odor discrimination and reversal training. Consistent with previous reports, subjects with OFC lesions required more trials to reach criterion and made more errors during reversal training than did sham-operated animals. Taken together, the results of the present study indicate that the orbitofrontal cortex is not necessary for acquisition or systems consolidation of socially transmitted food preferences.
The present study aimed at characterizing the early behavioural changes preceding the onset of disease in a transgenic mouse model of tauopathy. Mice transgenic for human P301S tau protein exhibit many characteristics of human tauopathies, including neurodegeneration, the formation of neuronal tau inclusions in the brain and the development of a pronounced motor phenotype by 5 months of age. In this study we analyzed the ultrasonic vocalization pattern in the first week of life and the response to nest-related olfactory stimuli on postnatal day 10 in both homozygous and heterozygous transgenic mice in comparison with the behavioural responses of C57BL/6J pups. Expression of human tau in the brain and spinal cord was evaluated by Western blot analysis. Homozygous P301S tau transgenic and C57BL/6J mice were also assessed for motor coordination in the Rotarod apparatus at 1, 2, 3 and 4 months of age, and spatial learning and spontaneous behaviour were evaluated at 2 months in the Morris water-maze and the open-field test. Results showed that P301S pups emitted more ultrasounds than C57BL/6J pups when separated from the mother. Two-month-old P301S mice displayed a hyperactive profile, as shown by increased swimming speed, enhanced locomotion and exploration of a novel object in the open field. However, the spatial task acquisition was unaltered. Decline of motor coordination capacities was evident only by the third month of age in the rotarod test. Behavioural abnormalities can be detected well before occurrence of neurodegeneration in this transgenic strain, thus representing precocious markers of pathology.
Withdrawal from psychostimulants increases anxiety states, and amphetamine-treated rats show increased CRF(2) receptors in the serotonergic cell body region, the dorsal raphe nucleus (dRN). In the current study, amphetamine (2.5 mg/kg, i.p., 14 days) pre-treated rats spent less time in open arms of the elevated plus maze compared saline pre-treated rats at both 24h or 2 weeks of withdrawal, and CRF(2) receptor antagonism (ASV-30; 2 microg/0.5 microl) within the dRN reversed the effects of amphetamine withdrawal on anxiety-like behavior. Overall, results suggest that CRF(2) receptor antagonism may be a novel pharmacological target for anxiety states during drug withdrawal.
Stress and drug-associated cues can trigger craving and relapse in abstinent drug-dependent individuals. Although the role of these two critical factors in relapse has been extensively studied, the interaction between stress and drug-associated cues in relapse has been less well characterized. Using an animal model of relapse, we assessed the effects of the pharmacological stressor, yohimbine (1.25 or 2.5mg/kg), on reinstatement of extinguished heroin-seeking in rats either in the presence or absence of heroin-associated cues. Yohimbine, in the absence of heroin-associated cues, and cues by themselves reliably reinstated heroin-seeking over extinction levels. Notably, animals showed significantly potentiated responding when yohimbine preceded cue-induced reinstatement (3-4x higher over cues or yohimbine alone). These results demonstrate that exposure to heroin-paired cues during yohimbine-induced stress greatly potentiates heroin-seeking, and support the simultaneous targeting of both stress and cue activation during relapse intervention.
Early phases of Parkinson's disease (PD) are characterized by a mild reduction of dopamine (DA) in striatum and by emergence of psychiatric disturbances that precede overt motor symptoms. In order to characterize the neurochemical re-arrangements induced by such striatal impairment, we used a mouse model in which a low dose of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) was bilaterally injected into the dorsal striatum. These mice showed a DA reduction of about 40% that remained stable up to 12 weeks after injection. This reduction was accompanied by changes in DA metabolite levels, such as HVA, transiently reduced at 4 weeks, and DOPAC, decreased at 12 weeks. No change in the 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) levels was found but the 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA)/5-HT ratio was increased at 4 weeks. In addition, at the same time-point, the levels of 15-F(2t)-IsoP, an index of oxidative stress, and of PGE(2), a major product of cyclooxygenase-2, were decreased in different brain areas while BDNF levels were increased. These neurochemical changes were accompanied by altered behavioral responses concerning the emotional reactivity. Overall, the present findings suggest that a change of 5-HT metabolism and a modification of oxidative stress levels may play a role in the early PD degeneration phases.
We have previously shown that high-dose erythropoietin (EPO) treatment improves hippocampal plasticity and cognitive performance in rodents and in patients suffering from neuropsychiatric diseases. It was therefore of interest to explore whether upregulation of endogenous EPO in brain by hypoxia inducible factor (HIF) stabilization would increase hippocampal memory similar to exogenous EPO. HIFs are transcription factors involved in the cellular response to low oxygen, including upregulation of transcripts like vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and EPO. Under normal oxygen, prolylhydroxylases decrease HIF-alpha stability. This is banned by prolylhydroxylase inhibitors, which prevent oxygen dependent degradation and thus prolong HIF-alpha half life. In an experimental set-up identical to the one yielding strong cognitive effects with EPO, healthy male 28-day-old mice received FG-4497, a HIF prolylhydroxylase inhibitor, or placebo intraperitoneally every other day for 3 weeks. Behavioral testing and hematocrit determinations were conducted in independent cohorts at 1, 3, or 4 weeks after treatment completion. Increased EPO and VEGF mRNA expression in hippocampus or primary hippocampal neurons 6h after the application of FG-4497 confirmed its ability to stabilize HIF and upregulate HIF dependent transcription in brain. At 3 and 4 weeks after the last injection, respectively, FG-4497 treated mice compared to placebo mice had improved hippocampal memory in fear conditioning without change in hematocrit. In contrast, no improvement in memory was detected at 1 week, when the hematocrit was increased, indicating that cognitive improvement and hematocrit are not directly related. FG-4497 application for 3 weeks leads to delayed but lasting enhancement of hippocampal memory, making HIF stabilization an attractive target for pharmacological manipulation of cognition.
Cognitive control processes involving prefrontal cortex allow humans to overrule and inhibit habitual responses to optimize performance in new and challenging situations, and traditional views hold that cognitive control is tightly linked with consciousness. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging to investigate to what extent unconscious &quot;no-go&quot; stimuli are capable of reaching cortical areas involved in inhibitory control, particularly the inferior frontal cortex (IFC) and the pre-supplementary motor area (pre-SMA). Participants performed a go/no-go task that included conscious (weakly masked) no-go trials, unconscious (strongly masked) no-go trials, as well as go trials. Replicating typical neuroimaging findings, response inhibition on conscious no-go stimuli was associated with a (mostly right-lateralized) frontoparietal &quot;inhibition network.&quot; Here, we demonstrate, however, that an unconscious no-go stimulus also can activate prefrontal control networks, most prominently the IFC and the pre-SMA. Moreover, if it does so, it brings about a substantial slowdown in the speed of responding, as if participants attempted to inhibit their response but just failed to withhold it completely. Interestingly, overall activation in this &quot;unconscious inhibition network&quot; correlated positively with the amount of slowdown triggered by unconscious no-go stimuli. In addition, neural differences between conscious and unconscious control are revealed. These results expand our understanding of the limits and depths of unconscious information processing in the human brain and demonstrate that prefrontal cognitive control functions are not exclusively influenced by conscious information.
FGF signaling is critical in the development of the vertebrate retina, which differentiates in a wave-like pattern similar to that found in the Drosophila eye. In this study, we investigated the mechanism of FGF signaling in vertebrate eye development by identifying Shp2, a protein tyrosine phosphatase, as a novel factor in orchestrating retinal morphogenesis. Using a series of Shp2 conditional mutants, we have shown that Shp2 is specifically required for the initiation of retinal neurogenesis but not for the maintenance of the retinal differentiation program. By mosaic deletion of Shp2, we further demonstrated that Shp2 ablation did not prevent the spreading of the retinal differentiation wave. Shp2 instead controls the patterning of the optic vesicle by regulating the retinal progenitor factors and cell proliferation. In ex vivo culture models and genetic rescue experiments, we showed that Shp2 acts downstream to FGF signaling in retinal development and that it can be functionally substituted by activated Ras signaling. Together, these results demonstrate that Shp2 mediates FGF-Ras signaling to control retinal progenitor cell fate.
The hormone leptin can cross the blood-brain barrier and influences numerous brain functions (Harvey, 2007). Indeed, recent studies have demonstrated that leptin regulates activity-dependent synaptic plasticity in the CA1 region of the hippocampus (Shanley et al., 2001; Li et al., 2002; Durakoglugil et al., 2005; Moult et al., 2009). It is well documented that trafficking of AMPA receptors is pivotal for hippocampal synaptic plasticity (Collingridge et al., 2004), but there is limited knowledge of how hormonal systems like leptin influence this process. In this study we have examined how leptin influences AMPA receptor trafficking and in turn how this impacts on excitatory synaptic function. Here we show that leptin preferentially increases the cell surface expression of GluR1 and the synaptic density of GluR2-lacking AMPA receptors in adult hippocampal slices. The leptin-induced increase in surface GluR1 required NMDA receptor activation and was associated with an increase in cytoplasmic PtdIns(3,4,5)P(3) levels. In addition, leptin enhanced phosphorylation of the lipid phosphatase PTEN which inhibits PTEN function and elevates PtdIns(3,4,5)P(3) levels. Moreover, inhibition of PTEN mimicked and occluded the effects of leptin on GluR1 trafficking and excitatory synaptic strength. These data indicate that leptin, via a novel pathway involving PTEN inhibition, promotes GluR1 trafficking to hippocampal synapses. This process has important implications for the role of leptin in hippocampal synaptic function in health and disease.
Retinotopically specific increases in alpha-band ( approximately 10 Hz) oscillatory power have been strongly implicated in the suppression of processing for irrelevant parts of the visual field during the deployment of visuospatial attention. Here, we asked whether this alpha suppression mechanism also plays a role in the nonspatial anticipatory biasing of feature-based attention. Visual word cues informed subjects what the task-relevant feature of an upcoming visual stimulus (S2) was, while high-density electroencephalographic recordings were acquired. We examined anticipatory oscillatory activity in the Cue-to-S2 interval ( approximately 2 s). Subjects were cued on a trial-by-trial basis to attend to either the color or direction of motion of an upcoming dot field array, and to respond when they detected that a subset of the dots differed from the majority along the target feature dimension. We used the features of color and motion, expressly because they have well known, spatially separated cortical processing areas, to distinguish shifts in alpha power over areas processing each feature. Alpha power from dorsal regions increased when motion was the irrelevant feature (i.e., color was cued), and alpha power from ventral regions increased when color was irrelevant. Thus, alpha-suppression mechanisms appear to operate during feature-based selection in much the same manner as has been shown for space-based attention.
Dyrk1A is a member of the mammalian Dyrk [dual-specificity tyrosine-(Y)-phosphorylation regulated kinase] family of protein kinases that is expressed at high levels in the brain, but its role in the development and function of this organ is not well understood. The human DYRK1A gene is located on trisomic chromosome 21 in Down syndrome (DS) patients, leading to its overexpression. Dyrk1A is also overexpressed in animal models of DS and in gene-specific transgenic mice that consistently exhibit cognitive impairment. To elucidate the cellular and molecular mechanisms that are affected by increased levels of Dyrk1A in the developing brain, we overexpressed this kinase in the embryonic mouse neocortex using the in utero electroporation technique. We found that Dyrk1A overexpression inhibits neural cell proliferation and promotes premature neuronal differentiation in the developing cerebral cortex without affecting cell fate and layer positioning. These effects are dependent on the Dyrk1A kinase activity and are mediated by the nuclear export and degradation of cyclin D1. This study identifies specific Dyrk1A-induced mechanisms that disrupt the normal process of corticogenesis and possibly contribute to cognitive impairment observed in DS patients and animal models.
Cells generated in the subventricular zone give rise to neuroblasts that migrate to the olfactory bulb (OB) along the rostral migratory stream (RMS). The polysialylated form of neural cell adhesion molecule (PSA-NCAM) is expressed by these cells, and has been shown to both promote their migration and suppress differentiation induced by NCAM. In the present study, enzymatic removal of PSA from these neuroblasts using PSA-specific endoneuraminidase has been found not only to disrupt the tangential migration and cellular organization of the RMS, but also to cause a massive dispersion of BrdU (5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine)-labeled neuroblasts into surrounding brain regions, including cortex and striatum. These dispersed cells are capable of differentiation, some into mature neurons, and could potentially be of value in the repair of CNS injury. Although the removal of PSA by genetic deletion of NCAM also results in a smaller OB and a swollen RMS, the cells do not escape the RMS in large numbers. These findings suggest that the presence of NCAM without PSA plays a role in the dispersion process, possibly by inducing a new pattern of migration associated with NCAM-dependent differentiation.
Changes in cellular cholesterol can affect exocytosis, but the influence of cholesterol in fusion pore kinetics is unclear. Using carbon fiber amperometry, we monitored quantal catecholamine release from rat chromaffin cells. To bypass any possible effect of cholesterol perturbation on ion channels or the colocalization of voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels with sites of exocytosis, exocytosis was stimulated via uniform elevation of cytosolic [Ca(2+)] (with whole-cell dialysis of a Ca(2+)-buffered solution). Under this condition, alterations of cellular cholesterol affected neither the mean number of amperometric events triggered per cell nor their quantal size and the kinetics of their main spike (which reflects the rapid release during and after rapid fusion pore dilation). In contrast, the reduction of cellular cholesterol shortened the &quot;prespike foot&quot; signals (which reflect the leakage of catecholamine via a semi-stable fusion pore) and reduced the proportion of &quot;stand-alone foot&quot; signals (which reflect the release via a flickering fusion pore that may close before it dilates significantly), whereas an oversupply of cholesterol had opposite effects. Acute extraction of cholesterol from the cytosol (via whole-cell dialysis of a cholesterol extractor) also shortened the prespike foot signals and reduced the proportion of stand-alone foot signals, but acute extracellular application of cholesterol extractor or &quot;soluble&quot; cholesterol had no effect. Our data raise the possibility that cholesterol molecules, particularly those in the cytoplasmic leaflet, helps to constrain the narrow waistline of a semi-stable fusion pore while it is flickering or before it starts to dilate rapidly.


Satellite glial cells (SGCs) surround primary afferent neurons in sensory ganglia, and increasing evidence has implicated the K(+) channels of SGCs in affecting or regulating sensory ganglion excitability. The inwardly rectifying K(+) (Kir) channel Kir4.1 is highly expressed in several types of glial cells in the central nervous system (CNS) where it has been implicated in extracellular K(+) concentration buffering. Upon neuronal activity, the extracellular K(+) concentration increases, and if not corrected, causes neuronal depolarization and uncontrolled changes in neuronal excitability. Recently, it has been demonstrated that knockdown of Kir4.1 expression in trigeminal ganglia leads to neuronal hyperexcitability in this ganglia and heightened nociception. Thus, we investigated the contribution of Kir4.1 to the membrane K(+) conductance of SGCs in neonatal and adult mouse trigeminal and dorsal root ganglia. Whole cell patch clamp recordings were performed in conjunction with immunocytochemistry and quantitative transcript analysis in various mouse lines. We found that in wild-type mice, the inward K(+) conductance of SGCs is blocked almost completely with extracellular barium, cesium and desipramine, consistent with a conductance mediated by Kir channels. We then utilized mouse lines in which genetic ablation led to partial or complete loss of Kir4.1 expression to assess the role of this channel subunit in SGCs. The inward K(+) currents of SGCs in Kir4.1+/- mice were decreased by about half while these currents were almost completely absent in Kir4.1-/- mice. These findings in combination with previous reports support the notion that Kir4.1 is the principal Kir channel type in SGCs. Therefore Kir4.1 emerges as a key regulator of SGC function and possibly neuronal excitability in sensory ganglia.
Agonists of ghrelin receptors can lower or elevate blood pressure, and it has been suggested that the increases in blood pressure are caused by actions at receptors in the spinal cord. However, this has not been adequately investigated, and the locations of neurons in the spinal cord that express ghrelin receptors, through which blood pressure increases may be exerted, are not known. We investigated the effects within the spinal cord of two non-peptide ghrelin receptor agonists, GSK894490 and CP464709, and two peptide receptor agonists, ghrelin and des-acyl ghrelin, and we used polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and in situ hybridization to examine ghrelin receptor expression. I.v. application of the non-peptide ghrelin receptor agonists caused biphasic changes in blood pressure, a brief drop followed by a blood pressure increase that lasted several minutes. The blood pressure rise, but not the fall, was antagonized by i.v. hexamethonium. Application of these agonists or ghrelin peptide directly to the spinal cord caused only a blood pressure increase. Des-acyl ghrelin had no significant action. The maximum pressor effects of agonists occurred with application at spinal cord levels T9 to T12. Neither i.v. nor spinal cord application of the agonists had significant effect on heart rate or the electrocardiogram. Ghrelin receptor gene expression was detected by PCR and in situ hybridization. In situ hybridization localized expression to neurons, including autonomic preganglionic neurons of the intermediolateral cell columns at all levels from T3 to S2. The numbers of ghrelin receptor expressing neurons in the intermediolateral cell columns were similar to the numbers of nitric oxide synthase positive neurons, but there was little overlap between these two populations. We conclude that activation of excitatory ghrelin receptors on sympathetic preganglionic neurons increases blood pressure, and that decreases in blood pressure caused by ghrelin agonists are mediated through receptors on blood vessels.
Individuals in contemporary society are continually exposed to various visual stimuli. Such stimulation, especially when high in temporal frequency, may sometimes cause unexpected events such as photosensitive seizures. Although many studies have demonstrated that high-temporal-frequency (&gt;3 Hz) visual stimulation can yield hazardous responses in the CNS, the mechanisms by which it does so are still unclear. We therefore investigated the mechanisms of neural perturbation by high-temporal-frequency strobe light stimulation with high-temporal-frequency resolution (4-20 Hz with an interval of 2 Hz) using magnetoencephalography with high temporal and spatial resolution. We show that (1) three temporal dipole phases (phases 1, 2 and 3, by time course) can be identified in the visual evoked magnetic fields (VEF's) across stimulation frequencies based on the goodness-of-fit values for equivalent current dipole estimation and horizontal dipole directions, (2) the dipole moment of VEF's is correlated with autonomic nervous system activity in phases 1 and 2, (3) some temporal stimulation frequencies enhance magnetic responses in phases 1, 2 and 3, and (4) these frequencies are harmonically related, with a greatest common divisor frequency (fundamental frequency) of approximately 6.5 Hz. Our clarification of the temporal frequency characteristics of VEF's will contribute to understanding of the potential hazardous effects of high-temporal-frequency strobe light stimulation in the CNS.
There is accumulating evidence of the importance of cellular communication between the cells that compose the blood-brain barrier (BBB). Astrocytes are known to affect the expression of tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA) and its inhibitor plasminogen activator inhibitor type-1 (PAI-1) in endothelial cells. We investigated the influence of endothelial cells on astrocytic gene expression of PAI-1, protease nexin-1 (PN-1) and t-PA using an in vitro model of the BBB. Primary rat astrocyte-enriched cultures were cocultured with primary adult rat brain microvascular endothelial cells on opposite sides of a transwell membrane. After coculturing for 9-11 days, the cultures were treated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) for 8 h or 24 h. The levels of PAI-1, PN-1 and t-PA mRNA in untreated and treated monocultures and cocultures were analyzed by Real-Time RT-PCR. Cocultivation of astrocytes and endothelial cells increased astrocytic PAI-1 mRNA expression, and this response was further amplified by LPS treatment. The levels of PN-1 and t-PA mRNA expression in astrocytes were unaffected by cocultivation and/or LPS treatment. Analysis of endothelial PAI-1 and t-PA gene expression revealed increased PAI-1 mRNA levels in cocultured cells, whereas t-PA mRNA levels remained unchanged. These results demonstrate that the cocultivation of astrocytes and endothelial cells induces a pronounced increase in astrocytic PAI-1 gene expression, and that this effect is amplified by LPS treatment. These findings imply an important role for intercellular crosstalk in modulating PAI-1 gene expression within the BBB, under both physiologic and pathophysiologic conditions.
We have used the anterograde tracer Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin (PHA-L) to study with albino rats the projections from the inferior colliculus (IC) to the tectal longitudinal column (TLC), a newly discovered nucleus that spans the midbrain tectum longitudinally, on each side of the midbrain, immediately above the periaqueductal gray matter. We studied the projections of the medial IC, which includes the classical central nucleus (CNIC) and the dorsal cortex (DCIC), and those of the lateral IC, equivalent to the classical external cortex (ECIC). Following unilateral injections of PHA-L into the medial IC, numerous terminal fibers are labeled bilaterally in the TLC. The ipsilateral projection is denser and targets the entire nucleus, whereas the contralateral projection targets significantly only the caudal half or two-thirds of the TLC. Fibers from the medial IC reach the TLC by two routes: as collaterals of axons that travel in the commissure of the IC and as collaterals of thick ipsilateral colliculogeniculate axons; the latter travel through the deep superior colliculus on their way to the TLC. Within the TLC, individual IC fibers tend to run longitudinally. The injection of PHA-L into the lateral IC indicates that this subdivision sends a weak, bilateral projection to the TLC whose trajectory, morphology and distribution are similar to those of the projection from the medial IC. These results demonstrate that all subdivisions of the IC send projections to the TLC, suggesting that the IC may be one of the main sources of auditory input to this tectal nucleus.
Chronic treatment with the non-selective adenosine receptor antagonist caffeine produces full recovery of the contralateral adjusting steps in hemiparkinsonian rats. In order to disclose which adenosine receptor subtype mediates this effect, a group of hemiparkinsonian rats (n=9) was treated with caffeine (5.15 mumol/kg/day), or equimolar doses of selective A1 (DPCPX) or A2A (ZM 241385) adenosine receptor antagonists, administered in a counterbalanced order over periods of 3 weeks, interspersed with equivalent washout intervals. Treatment with ZM 241385 caused full recovery (102+/-6%) of the contralateral forepaw stepping, while the maximal effect of DPCPX was only 73+/-7% of that produced by caffeine. The maximal effect of caffeine and ZM 241385 remained stable throughout the treatment period. The response to DPCPX showed more fluctuations, but tolerance did not develop. Stepping improvement was significantly faster with DPCPX than with ZM 241385, while caffeine had intermediate values. Stepping decrease after treatment interruption was faster with ZM 241385 than with caffeine, while DPCPX had intermediate values. In other experiments with the same rats, addition of the A2AR agonist CGS 21680 (5.15 mumol/kg) or the A1R agonist CCPA (2.71 mumol/kg) during the second week of caffeine treatment reversed the improvement of contralateral stepping by 59+/-4% and 30+/-3%, respectively. The combined treatment with CGS 21680 and CCPA caused complete reversal of the contralateral stepping recovery afforded by caffeine, which was more than additive (114+/-5%) compared with the sum of the maximal inhibition produced by either agonist administered alone (89+/-4%). In all cases, after interrupting the adenosine agonists, the effect of caffeine was fully restored. None of the aforementioned treatments induced significant changes in the stepping of the ipsilateral forepaw. Collectively, these results suggest that the improvement of postural adjustments induced by chronic treatment with low doses of caffeine in hemiparkinsonian rats is mediated by concurrent blockade of A1 and A2A adenosine receptors, with a larger involvement of the latter.
In this study, we investigated whether the potential positive effects of nicotine in Alzheimer's disease (AD) may involve neurotrophic factors, such as nerve growth factor (NGF), closely associated with basal forebrain (BF) cholinergic function and survival. To this aim, we studied the effects of prolonged nicotine treatment on neurotrophin receptors expression and on NGF protein levels in the rat BF cholinergic circuitry. Both in vivo and in vitro experiments were conducted. We found that s.c. nicotine infusion (1.2 mg free base/kg/d delivered by mini-pumps for 7 days) induced in vivo an increase in tyrosine kinase receptor A (TrkA)-but not TrkB, TrkC or low affinity neurotrophin receptor p75 (p75)-expression in BF cholinergic neurons targeting the cerebral cortex. Nicotine did not produce statistically significant long-lasting effects on NGF levels in the cerebral cortex, or in the BF. In vitro experiments performed on primary BF neuronal cultures, showed that 72 h exposure to nicotine increased both TrkA expression, and NGF release in culture medium. Neutralization experiments with an anti-NGF antibody showed that NGF presence was not necessary for nicotine-induced increase of TrkA levels in cultured cholinergic neurons, suggesting that nicotine may act through NGF-independent mechanisms. This study shows that nicotine, independently of its action on NGF levels, may contribute to the restoration of the trophic support to BF cholinergic neurons by increasing TrkA levels.
Neuronostatin (NST) is a newly identified peptide of 13-amino acids encoded by the somatostatin (SST) gene. Using a rabbit polyclonal antiserum against the human NST, neuronostatin-immunoreactive (irNST) cells comparable in number and intensity to somatostatin immunoreactive (irSST) cells were detected in the hypothalamic periventricular nucleus. Fewer and/or less intensely labeled irNST cells were noted in other regions such as the hippocampus, cortex, amygdala, and cerebellum. Double-labeling hypothalamic sections with NST- and SST-antiserum revealed an extensive overlapping of irNST and irSST cells in the periventricular nucleus. Pre-absorption of the NST-antiserum with NST (1 microg/ml) but not with SST (1 microg/ml) abrogated irNST and vice versa. The activity of NST on dissociated and cultured hypothalamic neurons was assessed by the Ca(2+) imaging method. NST (10, 100, 1000 nM) concentration-dependently elevated intracellular Ca(2+) concentrations [Ca(2+)](i) in a population of hypothalamic neurons with two distinct profiles: (1) a fast and transitory increase in [Ca(2+)](i), and (2) an oscillatory response. Whereas, SST (100 nM) reduced the basal [Ca(2+)](i) in 21 of 61 hypothalamic neurons examined; an increase was not observed in any of the cells. Optical imaging with a slow-responding voltage sensitive dye DiBAC(4)(3) showed that NST (100 nM) depolarized or hyperpolarized; whereas, SST (100 nM) hyperpolarized a population of hypothalamic neurons. The result shows that NST and SST, though derived from the same precursor protein, exert different calcium mobilizing effects on cultured rat hypothalamic neurons, resulting in diverse cellular activities.
The aim of the present study was to evaluate the production of superoxide anion (O(2)(-)) in the trigeminal complex nuclei after a functional mechanical overload of the teeth due to the preference for masticating on one side in rats. The preference for masticating on one side was induced by the discomfort due to a small abrasion of one molar; such lateralisation in mastication was confirmed by electromyography. The production of O(2)(-) was evaluated in the trigeminal nuclei by fluorescence microscopy after an injection of dihydroethidium. The results showed that there was an increased production of O(2)(-) in the subnucleus oralis of the spinal trigeminal nucleus in the same side where the mastication was preferred. This result demonstrates that an increased activity of non-painful sensory neurons can enhance the production of reactive oxygen species within the central second order sensory nuclei.
Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are a family of zinc-dependent endopeptidases that can be released or activated in a neuronal activity dependent manner. Although pathologically elevated levels of MMPs may be synaptotoxic, physiologically appropriate levels of MMPs may instead enhance synaptic transmission. MMP inhibitors can block long term potentiation (LTP), and at least one family member can affect an increase in the volume of dendritic spines. While the mechanism by which MMPs affect these changes is not completely understood, one possibility is that the cleavage of specific synaptic cell adhesion molecules plays a role. In the present study, we have examined the ability of neuronal activity to stimulate rapid MMP dependent shedding of the intercellular adhesion molecule-5 (ICAM-5), a synaptic adhesion molecule that is thought to inhibit the maturation and enlargement of dendritic spines. Since such cleavage would likely occur within minutes if it were relevant to a process such as LTP, we focused on post stimulus time points of 30 min or less. We show that NMDA can stimulate rapid shedding of ICAM-5 from cortical neurons in dissociated cell cultures and that such shedding is diminished by pretreatment of cultures with inhibitors that target MMP-3 and -9, proteases thought to influence synaptic plasticity. Additional studies suggest that MMP mediated cleavage of ICAM-5 occurs at amino acid 780, so that the major portion of the ectodomain is released. Since reductions in ICAM-5 have been linked to changes in dendritic spine morphology that are associated with LTP, we also examined the possibility that MMP dependent ICAM-5 shedding occurs following high frequency tetanic stimulation of murine hippocampal slices. Results show that the shedding of ICAM-5 occurs in association with LTP, and that both LTP and the associated ICAM-5 shedding are reduced when slices are pretreated with an MMP inhibitor. Together, these findings suggest that neuronal activity is linked to the shedding of a molecule that may inhibit dendritic spine enlargement and that MMPs can affect this change. While further studies will be necessary to determine the extent to which cleavage of ICAM-5 in particular contributes to MMP dependent LTP, our data support an emerging body of literature suggesting that MMPs are critical mediators of synaptic plasticity.
Proteasomal dysfunction and apoptosis are major hallmarks in the pathophysiology of Parkinson's disease (PD). PARK6 which is caused by mutations in the mitochondrial protein kinase PINK1 is a rare autosomal-recessively inherited disorder mimicking the clinical picture of PD. To investigate the cytoprotective physiological function of PINK1, we used primary fibroblasts from three patients homozygous for G309D-PINK1 as well as SHEP neuroblastoma cells stably overexpressing GFP-tagged wild type (wt) PINK1. Here we demonstrate that overexpression of wt PINK1 inhibits activation of Bax and release of cytochrome c, thereby diminishing caspase 9 processing and effector caspase activity after induction of proteasomal stress with the proteasome inhibitor (PI) MG132 in SHEP cells. Conversely, effector caspase activation induced by PIs, but not by the unrelated apoptotic stimulus staurosporine was potently enhanced in primary fibroblasts from homozygous PARK6 patients in comparison to those of heterozygous carriers or unaffected siblings. SHEP cells overexpressing wt PINK1 showed an elevated expression of the cytoprotective gene parkin, whereas PARK6 fibroblasts displayed significantly decreased expression of parkin in comparison to wild type control cells. Interestingly, overexpressed GFP-PINK1 was exclusively localized in the mitochondria of SHEP cells, but was redistributed to the cytoplasm under conditions of proteasomal stress. Our data indicate that PINK1 plays an important and specific physiological role in protecting cells from proteasomal stress, and suggest that PINK1 might exert its cytoprotective effects upstream of mitochondria engagement.
Endogenous opioid peptides are involved in prolactin release during lactation, in part by decreasing tuberoinfundibular dopaminergic (TIDA) neuronal activity. Both mu (mu) and kappa (kappa) opioid receptors have a role in the suckling-induced prolactin rise after 4-5 h up deprivation. The aim of this study was to investigate effects of mu opioid receptor antagonist, beta-funaltrexamine (beta-FNA), and kappa opioid receptor antagonist, nor-binaltorphimine (nor-BNI), on prolactin secretion and TIDA neuronal activity in lactating rats after 18 h pup deprivation. After 4 h separation from pups, the suckling-induced prolactin rise was abolished by 16 microg nor-BNI and 5 microg beta-FNA, coincident with increased dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC):dopamine ratio in the stalk-median eminence (SME). However, after 18 h pups separation, these same doses of nor-BNI and beta-FNA did not alter the prolactin surge or DOPAC:dopamine ratios in the SME. Higher doses of nor-BNI (32 microg) and beta-FNA (10 microg) were required to inhibit suckling-induced prolactin secretion. beta-FNA (10 microg) increased the DOPAC:dopamine ratio in the SME, whereas nor-BNI (32 microg) treatment had no effect. The mu and kappa opioid receptor mRNA levels in the mediobasal hypothalamus were similar to suckled control rats after 4 h pup deprivation, but increased 1.4-fold after 18 h pup deprivation. These data support involvement of endogenous opioidergic systems in the suckling-induced prolactin rise after a prolonged (18 h) period of pup deprivation, as well as the shorter (4 h) pup deprivation period previously reported. Suppression of TIDA neuronal activity likely played a part in mu opioid receptor input to the suckling-induced prolactin rise after both 4 h and 18 h separation, whereas non-dopaminergic input was implicated with kappa opioid receptors after 18 h pup deprivation. Increased mu and kappa opioid receptors gene expression in the mediobasal hypothalamus may contribute to reduced effectiveness of opioid receptor antagonists to block suckling-induced prolactin release after 18 h pup deprivation.
Adult neurogenesis occurs most notably in the subgranular zone (SGZ) of the hippocampal dentate gyrus and in the olfactory bulb (OB) where new neurons are generated from neural progenitors cells produced in the subventricular zone (SVZ) of the forebrain. As it is well known that gonadal steroid hormones, primarily estradiol, modulate neurogenesis in the hippocampus of adult female rodents, we wanted to determine whether estradiol would also affect the proliferation of progenitor cells in the SVZ and by consequence the rate of newly generated cells in the main OB. Thus a first group of adult female C57Bl6/J mice was ovariectomized and received a short term treatment with estradiol (single injection of 1 or 10 microg 17beta-estradiol or Silastic capsule of estradiol during 2 days) before receiving a single injection with BrdU to determine whether estradiol would modulate the cell proliferation in the SVZ. A second group of adult ovariectomized female mice was submitted to the same estradiol treatment before receiving four BrdU injections, and was sacrificed 21 days later to determine whether a modulation in cell proliferation actually leads to a modulation in the number of newborn cells in the main OB. We observed a decrease in cell proliferation in the SVZ following either dose of estradiol compared to the controls. Furthermore, 21 days after their generation in the SVZ, the number of BrdU labeled cells was also lower in the main OB, both in the granular and periglomerular cell layers of estradiol-treated animals. These results show that a short term treatment with estradiol actually downregulates cell proliferation leading to a decreased number of newborn cells in the OB.
Statins inhibit 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl CoA reductase, the rate-limiting enzyme in the cholesterol biosynthetic pathway, and they are widely used to control plasma cholesterol levels and prevent cardiovascular disease. However, emerging evidence indicates that the beneficial effects of statins extend to the CNS. Statins have been shown to improve the outcome of stroke and traumatic brain injury, and statin use has been associated with a reduced prevalence of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and dementia. However, prospective studies with statins in AD have produced mixed results. Recently, we reported that simvastatin, a widely used statin in humans, enhances learning and memory in non-transgenic mice as well as in transgenic mice with AD-like pathology on a mixed genetic background. However, the cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying the beneficial effects of simvastatin on learning and memory remain elusive. The present study was undertaken to investigate the effect of acute simvastatin treatment on hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP), a cellular model of learning and memory, in brain slices from C57BL/6 mice. Our results demonstrate that a prolonged in vitro simvastatin treatment for 2-4 h, but not a short-term 20-min exposure, significantly increases the magnitude of LTP at CA3-CA1 synapses without altering basal synaptic transmission or the paired-pulse facilitation ratio in hippocampal slices. Furthermore, we show that phosphorylation of Akt (protein kinase B) is increased significantly in the CA1 region following 2-hour treatment with simvastatin, and that inhibition of Akt phosphorylation suppresses the simvastatin-induced enhancement of LTP. These findings suggest activation of Akt as a molecular pathway for augmented hippocampal LTP by simvastatin treatment, and implicate enhancement of hippocampal LTP as a potential cellular mechanism underlying the beneficial effects of simvastatin on cognitive function.
Foxp1 and Foxp2, which belong to the forkhead transcription factor family, are expressed in the developing and adult mouse brain, including the striatum, thalamus, and cerebral cortex. Recent reports suggest that FOXP1 and FOXP2 are involved in the development of speech and language in humans. Although both Foxp1 and Foxp2 are expressed in the neural circuits that mediate speech and language, including the corticostriatal circuit, the functions of Foxp1 and Foxp2 in the cerebral cortex remain unclear. To gain insight into the functions of Foxp1 and Foxp2 in the cerebral cortex, we characterized Foxp1- and Foxp2-expressing cells in postnatal and adult mice using immunohistochemistry. In adult mice, Foxp1 was expressed in neurons of layers III-VIa in the neocortex, whereas the expression of Foxp2 was restricted to dopamine and cyclic adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate-regulated phosphoprotein, 32 kDa (DARPP-32)(+) neurons of layer VI. In addition, Foxp2 was weakly expressed in the neurons of layer V of the motor cortex and hindlimb and forelimb regions of the primary somatosensory cortex. Both Foxp1 and Foxp2 were expressed in the ionotropic glutamate receptor (GluR) 2/3(+) neurons, and colocalized with none of GluR1, gamma-aminobutyric acid, calbindin, and parvalbumin, indicating that expression of Foxp1 and Foxp2 is restricted to projection neurons. During the postnatal stages, Foxp1 was predominantly expressed in Satb2(+)/Ctip2(-) corticocortical projection neurons of layers III-V and in Tbr1(+) corticothalamic projection neurons of layer VIa. Although Foxp2 was also expressed in Tbr1(+) corticothalamic projection neurons of layer VI, no colocalization of Foxp1 with Foxp2 was observed from postnatal day (P) 0 to P7. These findings suggest that Foxp1 and Foxp2 may be involved in the development of different cortical projection neurons during the early postnatal stages in addition to the establishment and maintenance of different cortical circuits from the late postnatal stage to adulthood.
Resveratrol pretreatment has been shown to provide neuroprotection in models of cerebral ischemia. This phenomenon, commonly termed preconditioning, promotes ischemic tolerance and may involve mild activation of endoplasmic reticulum stress pathways in the affected tissue. Systemic injection of resveratrol (2 x 10(-3), 2 x 10(-4), 1 x 10(-4) mg/kg) 30 min prior to a 4 h period of right middle cerebral artery occlusion significantly reduced infarct area in the insular region of rat prefrontal cortex. This affect was blocked when resveratrol treatment was combined with a non-selective estrogen receptor antagonist, or preceded by intracortical injection of an NMDA receptor antagonist. The neuroprotective effect of resveratrol was associated with reduced renal sympathetic nerve activity as well as induction of resident endoplasmic reticulum chaperone proteins, glucose-regulated proteins 78 and 94. The calcium-sensitive chaperone heat shock protein 70 and the cysteine protease m calpain did not respond to resveratrol pretreatment. However, a significant induction of heat shock protein 70 was observed in the contralateral cortex of resveratrol pretreated rats following 4 h of right middle cerebral artery occlusion. These data suggest that resveratrol preconditioning promotes ischemic tolerance in the short term, in part via effects mediated through activation of estrogen and NMDA receptors, as well as through mild activation of cellular stress proteins.
Neurokinin B (NKB) and kisspeptin receptor signaling are essential components of the reproductive axis. A population of neurons resides within the arcuate nucleus of the rat that expresses NKB, kisspeptin, dynorphin, NK3 receptors and estrogen receptor alpha (ERalpha). Here we investigate the projections of these neurons using NKB-immunocytochemistry as a marker. First, the loss of NKB-immunoreactive (ir) somata and fibers was characterized after ablation of the arcuate nucleus by neonatal injections of monosodium glutamate. Second, biotinylated dextran amine was injected into the arcuate nucleus and anterogradely labeled NKB-ir fibers were identified using dual-labeled immunofluorescence. Four major projection pathways are described: (1) local projections within the arcuate nucleus bilaterally, (2) projections to the median eminence including the lateral palisade zone, (3) projections to a periventricular pathway extending rostrally to multiple hypothalamic nuclei, the septal region and BNST and dorsally to the dorsomedial nucleus and (4) Projections to a ventral hypothalamic tract to the lateral hypothalamus and medial forebrain bundle. The diverse projections provide evidence that NKB/kisspeptin/dynorphin neurons could integrate the reproductive axis with multiple homeostatic, behavioral and neuroendocrine processes. Interestingly, anterograde tract-tracing revealed NKB-ir axons originating from arcuate neurons terminating on other NKB-ir somata within the arcuate nucleus. Combined with previous studies, these experiments reveal a bilateral interconnected network of sex-steroid responsive neurons in the arcuate nucleus of the rat that express NKB, kisspeptin, dynorphin, NK3 receptors and ERalpha and project to GnRH terminals in the median eminence. This circuitry provides a mechanism for bilateral synchronization of arcuate NKB/kisspeptin/dynorphin neurons to modulate the pulsatile secretion of GnRH.
Clinically relevant concentrations of isoflurane or sevoflurane sensitize transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 to several of its activators, including capsaicin. It has, moreover, been suggested these volatile general anaesthetics may augment nociceptive signalling arising from surgical procedures and thereby contribute to post-operative pain. To investigate this suggestion, we have studied intraplantar capsaicin injection-induced phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 in spinal dorsal horn neurons (which is a recognized marker of spinal nociceptive processing) in rat during isoflurane or sevoflurane anaesthesia after 60 min under anaesthesia. Control animals were anaesthetized with pentobarbital (which of itself does not activate extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 in spinal dorsal horn neurons). Unilateral intraplantar capsaicin injection in control animals evoked extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 phosphorylation in a group of neurons in lamina I and lamina II of the ipsilateral spinal dorsal horn in a somatotopically appropriate area. In contrast, both anaesthetic gases (given for 60 min and without subsequent capsaicin injection) induced extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 activation in a different group of mainly lamina I neurons bilaterally. The total number of spinal dorsal horn neurons labelled on the ipliateral side following capsaicin injection into the isoflurane-, or sevoflurane-, anaesthetized animals was significantly less than that produced by capsaicin alone. Further, capsaicin injection into isoflurane-, or sevoflurane-, anaesthetized animals reduced extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 phosphorylation induced by the gases alone on both sides. These findings do not support the suggestion that isoflurane-, or sevoflurane-, induced sensitization of transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 by capsaicin, or other agonist, is translated into induction of spinal nociceptive processing and consequential pain sensation.
Cortical efferences to the heart are important for cardiovascular health, psychopathology, emotion regulation and other dimensions of human functioning. Although researchers have already begun to outline the underlying neuroanatomy, the timing of neurovisceral communication in humans is difficult to study non-invasively. A possible coupling between the brain and the heart can be observed following feedback stimuli, which have been shown to evoke both, early (i.e. &lt;500 ms) signatures in the electroencephalogram (EEG) and changes in the chronotropy of subsequent heart beats. Because standard approaches may be insufficient to study how these responses are related, we suggest a method termed &quot;Cardio-Electroencephalographic Covariance Tracing&quot; (CECT), which is based on time-lagged P-correlations (i.e., correlations within individuals) between single-trial EEG magnitudes and heart period changes. When CECT was applied to data from n=31 individuals who performed a gambling task, central midline EEG magnitudes from 280 to 340 ms after feedback reliably P-correlated with cardiac acceleration 2 to 5 s thereafter. In addition positive vs. negative feedback lead to enhanced event related potential amplitudes from 200 to 280 ms and to relative cardiac acceleration from 1 to 3.5 s after feedback presentation. The results imply that neurogenic cardiac modulations begin to be affected 200 to 400 ms after stimulus presentation and demonstrate the utility of CECTs for future investigations.
This study evaluated the protective role of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (p38 MAPK) inhibitors and sequestosome 1 (Sqstm1/A170/p62), a stress-induced signal modulator, in acoustic injury of the cochlea in mice. Two weeks after the exposure of mice to acoustic stress, threshold shifts of the auditory brainstem response (ABR) from the pre-exposure level and hair cell loss were evaluated. The activation of p38 MAPK was observed in cochlea by immunostaining 4 h after acoustic stress. To examine the role of p38 MAPK in tissue injury, its inhibitors were i.p. injected into male wild-type C57BL mice before the acoustic overexposure. The inhibitors SB202190 and SB203580 but not the inactive analogue SB202474 dose-dependently decreased the auditory threshold shift and outer hair cell loss induced by acoustic overexposure, suggesting the involvement of p38 MAPK in ototoxicity. We found that acoustic overexposure induced the up-regulation of Sqstm1 mRNA expression in the cochlea of wild-type mice and that SQSTM1-deficient mice exhibited an enhanced ABR threshold shift and hair cell loss, suggesting a role of SQSTM1 in the protection of tissue from acoustic stress.
Cerebral cortical slow-wave activity (SWA) is prominent during sleep and also during ketamine-induced anesthesia. SWA in electroencephalogram (EEG) recordings is closely linked to prominent fluctuations between up- and down-states in the membrane potential of pyramidal neurons. However, little is known about how the cerebellum is linked into SWA and whether slow cortical oscillations influence sensory cerebellar responses. To examine these issues, we simultaneously recorded EEG activity from the cerebral cortex (SI, MI, and supplementary motor area (SMA)), local field potentials at the input stage of cerebellar processing in the cerebellar granule cell layer (GCL) and inferior olive (IO), and single unit activity at the output stage of the cerebellum in the deep cerebellar nuclei (DCN). We found that in ketamine-anesthetized rats, SWA was synchronized between all recorded cortical areas and was phase locked with local field potentials of the GCL, IO and single unit activity in the DCN. We also found that cortical up-states are linked to activation of GCL neurons but to inhibition of cerebellar output from the DCN, with the latter an effect likely mediated by Purkinje cells. A partial coherence analysis showed further that a large portion of SWA shared between GCL and DCN was transmitted from the cortex, since the coherence shared between GCL and DCN was diminished when the effect of cortical activity was subtracted. To determine the causal flow of information between structures, a directed transfer function was calculated between the simultaneous activities of SI, MI, SMA, GCL and DCN. This analysis demonstrated that the primary direction of information flow was from cortex to the cerebellum and that SI had a stronger influence than other cortical areas on DCN activity. The strong functional connectivity with SI in particular is in agreement with previous findings of a strong cortical component in cerebellar sensory responses.
The human myelin proteolipid protein 1 gene (hPLP1), which encodes the major structural myelin proteins of the central nervous system (CNS), is classically described as expressed in the oligodendrocytes, the CNS myelinating cells. We identified two new exons in the intron 1 of the hPLP1 gene that lead to the expression of additional mRNA and protein isoforms mainly expressed in neurons instead of oligodendrocytes. Those novel neuronal PLP isoforms are detected as soon as human fetal development and their concomitant expression is specific of the human species. As classical PLP proteins, the novel protein isoforms seem to be addressed to the plasma membrane. These results suggest for the first time that PLP may have functions in humans not only in oligodendrocytes but also in neurons and could be implicated in axono-glial communication. Moreover, this neuronal expression of the hPLP1 gene might explain the neuronal dysfunctions in patients carrying hPLP1 gene mutations.
Neurotransmission between glutamatergic terminals of retinal ganglion cells and principal neurons of the ventral lateral geniculate nucleus (LGNv) was examined with patch clamp recordings in chick brain slices during electrical stimulation of the optic tract. Since muscarinic and nicotinic receptors are present in high densities in LGNv, the present study examined possible roles of both receptors in modulating retinogeniculate transmission. During whole-cell recordings from LGNv neurons, acetylcholine (ACh, 100 microM) caused an initial increase in amplitudes of optic tract-evoked non-N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) glutamatergic postsynaptic currents (PSCs). This increase was unchanged when 1 microM atropine was present, indicating that this initial enhancement of PSCs was due entirely to activation of nicotinic receptors. However, during washout of ACh the amplitudes of evoked PSCs became significantly decreased by 40.4+/-5.0% for several minutes before recovering to their original amplitudes, an effect blocked by 1 microM atropine. Exogenously applied muscarine (10 microM) markedly depressed optic tract-evoked PSCs, and this decrease in amplitude was blocked by atropine. In a second set of experiments, we examined effects of releasing endogenous ACh prior to optic tract stimulation. This was accomplished by stimulation of the lateral portion of LGNv via a separate conditioning electrode. Following a brief train of low intensity conditioning stimuli, non-NMDA glutamatergic PSCs evoked by optic tract stimulation were potentiated. However, at higher conditioning stimulus intensities the PSCs were markedly decreased compared with control, and this decrease was partially blocked by atropine (1 microM). Neither ACh nor muscarine altered amplitudes of PSCs elicited by exogenously applied glutamate. Muscarine significantly reduced the frequency but not the amplitudes of miniature PSCs, consistent with a presynaptic location for muscarinic receptors mediating these effects. Thus while activation of nicotinic receptors potentiates retinogeniculate transmission, activation of muscarinic receptors mediates depression of transmission, demonstrating a complex cholinergic modulation of sensory information in LGNv.
As the pathophysiological mechanism(s) of many neuropsychiatric disorders relate to GABAergic interneuron structure and function, we employed isolation rearing of Wistar rats as a model to correlate developmental emergence of cognitive deficits with the expression of reelin-producing interneurons in the medial prefrontal cortex (PFC). Prepulse inhibition deficits emerged at postnatal day 60 and persisted into adulthood. Paralleling the emergence of these neurobehavioural deficits was an increase in reelin production and reelin-immunopositive cells in layer I of the PFC and this later became significantly reduced at postnatal day 80. Cells expressing reelin immunoreactivity in a horizontal orientation were mainly located to the upper regions of layer I whereas those with a vertical orientation, whose arbors extend into cortical layers II and III, were more numerous in the lower regions of layer I and became significantly dysregulated during postnatal development. No behavioural deficits or altered reelin expression was observed at postnatal days 30 or 40. Developmental emergence of neurobehavioural and reelin deficits in isolation reared animals is proposed to reflect maladaptive wiring within the medial prefrontal cortex during a critical maturation period of this circuitry.
Activation of poly (ADP-ribose) polymerases (PARP) contributes to ischemic damage by causing neuronal nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD(+)) depletion, release of apoptosis-inducing factor and consequent caspase-independent cell death. PARP-mediated cell death is sexually dimorphic, participating in ischemic damage in the male brain, but not the female brain. We tested the hypothesis that androgen signaling is required for this male-specific neuronal cell death pathway. We observed smaller damage following focal cerebral ischemia (MCAO) in male PARP-1 knockout mice compared to wild type (WT) as well as decreased damage in male mice treated with the PARP inhibitor PJ34. Protection from ischemic damage provided by PJ-34 in WT mice is lost after removal of testicular androgens (CAST) and rescued by androgen replacement. CAST PARP-1 KO mice exhibit increased damage compared to intact male KO mice, an effect reversed by androgen replacement in an androgen receptor-dependent manner. Lastly, we observed that ischemia causes an increase in PARP-1 expression that is diminished in the absence of testicular androgens. Our data indicate that PARP-mediated neuronal cell death in the male brain requires intact androgen-androgen receptor signaling.
The rodent visual cortex retains significant ocular dominance plasticity beyond the traditional postnatal critical period. However, the intracellular mechanisms that underlie the cortical response to monocular deprivation are predicted to be different in juveniles and adults. Here we show monocular deprivation in adult, but not juvenile rats, induced an increase in the phosphorylation of the prominent presynaptic effecter protein synapsin at two key sites known to regulate synapsin function. Monocular deprivation in adults induced an increase in synapsin phosphorylation at the PKA consensus site (site 1) and the CaMKII consensus site (site 3) in the visual cortex ipsilateral to the deprived eye, which is dominated by non-deprived eye input. The increase in synapsin phosphorylation was observed in total cortical homogenate, but not synaptoneurosomes, suggesting that the pool of synapsin targeted by monocular deprivation in adults does not co-fractionate with excitatory synapses. Phosphorylation of sites 1 and 3 stimulates the release of synaptic vesicles from a reserve pool and increases in the probability of evoked neurotransmitter release, which may contribute to the strengthening of the non-deprived input characteristic of ocular dominance plasticity in adults.
Stress activates multiple neural systems that suppress pain sensation. This adaptive phenomenon referred as stress-induced analgesia (SIA) is mediated by the activation of endogenous pain inhibitory systems. Both opioid and non-opioid forms of SIA have been elicited in rodents according to stressor parameters and duration. There is accumulating evidence that the endogenous neurotensin (NT) system plays an important role in SIA. Especially, NT-deficient mice were shown to exhibit reduced SIA following water avoidance or restraint stress. Since central NT produces naloxone-insensitive analgesic effects by acting on spinal and supraspinal NTS2 receptors, we hypothesized that NT might mediate non-opioid SIA through NTS2 activation. Here, we evaluated the influence of an opioid-independent severe stress produced by a cold-water swim for 3 min at 15 degrees C on rodent offspring's pain perception. Our results demonstrated that mice lacking NTS2 exhibit significantly reduced SIA following cold-water swim stress. Indeed, NTS2 knockout mice submitted to both acute (plantar test) and tonic (formalin test) pain stimuli show a greater sensitivity to pain in comparison to wild-type littermates. Accordingly, pretreatment with the NT receptor antagonist SR142948A results in a hyperalgesic response to stress induced by cold-water swim. Endogenous NT regulates hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis activity in stress condition by increasing corticosterone plasma levels. Accordingly, the plasma levels of corticosterone measured by radioimmunoassay are significantly reduced in non-stressed and stressed NTS2-deficient mice in comparison with wild-type mice. To further investigate the site of action of NT in mediating SIA, we microinjected NTS2 agonists in lumbar spinal cord and quantified post-stress sensitivity to pain in rats using the plantar test. Exogenously administered NTS2 analogs, JMV-431, beta-lactotensin and NT69L markedly enhance the magnitude and duration of stress antinociception in both 25- and 60-day-old rats. In sum, by using genetic and pharmacological approaches, we demonstrated here that NTS2 receptors mediate non-opioid SIA. Our results also revealed that the release of endogenous NT in response to stress requires the presence of NTS2 to stimulate corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF)-induced elevation of plasma corticosterone, and that NTS2 receptors localized at the lumbar spinal cord participate to the disinhibition of descending pain control pathways. Therefore, these data highlight the significance of NTS2 as a novel target for the treatment of pain and stress-related disorders.
Damage to oligodendrocyte (OL) progenitor cells (OPCs) and hypomyelination are two hallmark features of periventricular leukomalacia (PVL), the most common form of brain damage in premature infants. Clinical and animal studies have linked the incidence of PVL to maternal infection/inflammation, and activated microglia have been proposed to play a central role. However, the precise mechanism of how activated microglia adversely affects the survival and development of OPCs is still not clear. Here we demonstrate that lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-activated microglia are deleterious to OPCs, that is, impeding OL lineage progression, reducing the production of myelin basic protein (MBP), and mediating OPC death. We further demonstrate that LPS-activated microglia mediate OPC death by two distinct mechanisms in a time-dependent manner. The early phase of cell damage occurs within 24 h after LPS treatment, which is mediated by nitric oxide (NO)-dependent oxidative damage and is prevented by N(G)-nitro-l-arginine methyl ester (l-NAME), a general inhibitor of nitric oxide synthase. The delayed cell death is evident at 48 h after LPS treatment, is mediated by cytokines, and is prevented by blocking the activity of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and pro-nerve growth factor (proNGF), but not by l-NAME. Furthermore, microglia-derived insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) and ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) were significantly suppressed by LPS, and exogenous IGF-1 and CNTF synergistically protected OLs from death induced by LPS-treated microglia conditioned medium, indicating that a deficiency in trophic support may also be involved in OL death. Our finding that LPS-activated microglia not only induce two waves of cell death but also greatly impair OL development may shed some light on the mechanisms underlying selective white matter damage and hypomyelination in PVL.
Neuroadaptations in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) are hypothesized to play an important role in the behavioral changes associated with repeated psychostimulant exposure, but there are few published studies that measure neuronal activity during the development and expression of sensitization. To address this, we recorded single neuron activity in the medial PFC (mPFC) of male rats that were exposed for 5 days to saline or amphetamine (AMPH; 1.0 mg/kg i.p.) and then given saline or AMPH challenges following a three-day withdrawal. We found that rats exposed to AMPH developed locomotor sensitization to the drug that emerged on the fifth treatment session and became statistically significant at AMPH challenge. This was associated with no change in baseline (i.e., pre-injection) activity of mPFC neurons across the treatment or challenge sessions. Following the first AMPH injection, mPFC neurons responded primarily with reductions in firing, with the overall pattern and magnitude of responses remaining largely similar following repeated treatment. The exception was in the minority of cells that respond to AMPH with increases in firing rate. In this population, the magnitude of excitations peaked during the fifth AMPH exposure and was still relatively elevated at the AMPH challenge. Furthermore, these units increased firing during a saline challenge that was given to assess associative conditioning. These results suggest that AMPH-induced adaptations in mPFC function are not as apparent as AMPH-induced adaptations in behavior. When mPFC adaptations do occur, they appear limited to the population of neurons that increase their firing in response to AMPH.
The habenula is an epithalamic structure through which descending connections pass from the telencephalon to the brainstem, putting it in a key location to provide feedback control over the brainstem monoaminergic projections ascending to the telencephalon. Habenular nuclei lesions have been shown to impair memory function. The habenular nuclei have high concentrations of nicotinic receptors. In this study we assessed the role of habenular nicotinic receptors for working memory. Adult female Sprague-Dawley rats were trained on a 16-arm maze to assess spatial working and reference memory. All rats had at least 18 sessions of training and then had bilateral chronic infusion cannulae placed into the lateral habenula nucleus. These cannulae were each connected to a slow delivery osmotic minipump that chronically infused mecamylamine 100 microg/side/day (n=9) or vehicle (aCSF) for controls (n=15) for a period of 4 weeks. Both mecamylamine-infused and control rats were acutely injected (s.c.) with nicotine (0, 0.2 or 0.4 mg/kg) in a repeated measures counterbalanced design twice at each dose during the chronic local infusion period. There was a significant (P&lt;0.025) mecamylaminexnicotine interaction effect on memory performance. Without nicotine injection the chronic habenular mecamylamine infusion caused a significant (P&lt;0.05) increase in total memory errors. The 0.4 mg/kg nicotine dose significantly (P&lt;0.005) reversed the mecamylamine-induced memory impairment, returning performance back to levels seen in rats with control aCSF habenular infusions. The current study determined that nicotinic receptors in the lateral habenular nucleus are important for spatial memory function. Descending projections from the telencephalon through the habenula to brainstem nuclei using nicotinic receptors appear to be a key pathway for memory processing.
The ability to associate a name to a face is a crucially relevant task in daily life. In this study, we investigated the neuronal basis of face-name retrieval in young subjects using repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) over the left or right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC). The experimental task was composed of two study phases: an encoding phase and a retrieval phase. During the encoding phase, subjects saw a face (familiar or unfamiliar) followed by a name. During the retrieval phase, they saw the face together with two names and had to choose the name that was correctly associated with the face. rTMS was delivered only during retrieval. In addition, we evaluated the use of memory strategies during the task. Accordingly, subjects were subdivided into two groups: strategy users (SU) and no-strategy users (NSU). No rTMS effects were present for familiar face-name pairs, probably due to a ceiling effect. However, for unfamiliar face-name pairs, the different use of memory strategies resulted in different rTMS effects. The SU group showed a selective interference effect after right DLPFC stimulation, whereas the NSU group showed an effect after left DLPFC stimulation. Importantly, the overall performance of the two groups was comparable. We suggest that during memory retrieval the left DLPFC might be recruited when the subject does not apply deliberately a retrieval strategy whereas there is a shift to the right DLPFC if cognitive control processes that are engaged by strategies are needed to guide episodic retrieval.
Both the basal ganglia and cerebellum are known to influence cortical motor and motor-associated areas via the thalamus. Whereas striato-thalamo-cortical (STC) motor circuit dysfunction has been implicated clearly in Parkinson's disease (PD), the role of the cerebello-thalamo-cortical (CTC) motor circuit has not been well defined. Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) is a convenient tool for studying the role of the CTC in vivo in PD patients, but large inter-individual differences in fMRI activation patterns require very large numbers of subjects in order to interpret data from cross-sectional, case control studies. To understand the role of the CTC during PD progression, we obtained longitudinal fMRI 2 years apart from 5 PD (57+/-8 yr) and five Controls (57+/-9 yr) performing either externally- (EG) or internally-guided (IG) sequential finger movements. All PD subjects had unilateral motor symptoms at baseline, but developed bilateral symptoms at follow-up. Within-group analyses were performed by comparing fMRI activation patterns between baseline and follow-up scans. Between-group comparisons were made by contrasting fMRI activation patterns generated by the more-affected and less-affected hands of PD subjects with the mean of the dominant and non-dominant hands of Controls. Compared to baseline, Controls showed changes in CTC circuits, but PD subjects had increased recruitment of both cortical motor-associated and cerebellar areas. Compared to Controls, PD subjects demonstrated augmented recruitment of CTC circuits over time that was statistically significant when the IG task was performed by the hand that transitioned from non-symptomatic to symptomatic. This longitudinal fMRI study demonstrates increased recruitment of the CTC motor circuit concomitant with PD progression, suggesting a role of the CTC circuit in accommodation to, or pathophysiology of, PD.
In vitro anterograde tracing of axons in mesenteric nerve trunks using biotinamide in combination with immunohistochemical labelling was used to characterize the extrinsic nerve projections in the myenteric plexus of the mouse jejunum. Anterogradely-labelled spinal sensory fibres innervating the enteric nervous system were identified by their immunoreactivity for calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), while sympathetic noradrenergic fibres were detected with tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), using confocal microscopy. The presence of these markers has been previously described in the spinal sensory and sympathetic fibres. Labelled extrinsic nerve fibres in the myenteric plexus were identified apposing enteric neurons that were immunoreactive for either calretinin (CalR), calbindin (CalB) or nitric oxide synthase (NOS). Of the total anterogradely labelled axons in the myenteric plexus, 20% were CGRP-immunoreactive. Labelled CGRP-immunoreactive varicosities were closely apposed to CalR-immunoreactive myenteric cells, many of which were Dogiel type I (40%; interneurons) or type II (20%; intrinsic sensory) neurons. Labelled CGRP-immunoreactive varicosities were also observed in close appositions to CalB-immunoreactive myenteric cell bodies, of which a small subset had type II morphology (18%; intrinsic sensory neurons). A further 43% of all biotinamide-filled fibres were immunoreactive for TH and these fibres were apposed to CalR-immunoreactive cell bodies (small-sized; excitatory motor neurons) and NOS-immunoreactive cell bodies (either type I or small neurons; inhibitory motor neurons and interneurons) in the myenteric plexus. The results provide a neurochemical and neuroanatomical basis for connections between dorsal root afferent neurons and myenteric neurons and suggest an anatomical substrate for the well-known modulation of enteric circuits from sympathetic nerves. No anterogradely-labelled fibres were stained for NOS-immunoreactivity, despite more than 60% of dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons retrogradely labelled from the jejunum showing NOS-immunoreactivity. This was due to a substantial, time-dependent, and apparently selective, loss of NOS from extrinsic axons under in vitro conditions. Lastly, a small population of non-immunoreactive biotinamide-filled fibres (&lt;1%) gave rise to dense terminal structures around individual myenteric cell bodies lacking CalR, CalB or NOS. These specialized endings may represent vagal fibres or a subset of spinal sensory neurons that do not contain CGRP.
Kisspeptin, as well as insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1), act centrally to stimulate luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) secretion at puberty. IGF-1 can induce KiSS-1 gene expression as an early pubertal event; however, the signaling pathway mediating this effect is not known. Since alcohol (ALC) blocks IGF-1 induced LHRH release acutely, we assessed whether this drug could affect IGF-1 stimulated prepubertal KiSS-1 gene expression following a binge type of exposure. Immature female rats were administered either ALC (3 g/kg) or water via gastric gavage at 07.30 h. At 09.00 h the ALC and control groups were subdivided where half received either saline or IGF-1 (200 ng) into the third ventricle. A second dose of ALC (1.5, 2 and 3 g/kg) or water was administered at 11.30 h. These regimens produced moderate blood alcohol concentrations of 77, 89 and 117 mg/dl, respectively, over the time course of the experiment. Rats were sacrificed 6 h after the IGF-1 injection and tissues containing the anteroventral periventricular (AVPV) and arcuate (ARC) nuclei were collected. IGF-1 stimulated (P&lt;0.01) KiSS-1 gene expression in the AVPV nucleus at 6 h, but did not affect expression of the kisspeptin receptor, GPR54. While ALC did not alter basal expression of either gene, its dose dependently blocked IGF-1-induced KiSS-1 gene expression in the AVPV nucleus. No changes were observed in the ARC nucleus. Assessment of IGF-1 signaling indicated that the acute administration of IGF-1, ALC, or both did not alter the basal expression of IGF-1 receptor protein. However, IGF-1 stimulated (P&lt;0.05) phosphorylated Akt protein over basal levels, an action blocked by ALC. Our results indicate that the IGF-1 induction of KiSS-1 gene expression is mediated by Akt activation, and that ALC alters this important prepubertal action of IGF-1.
It is poorly understood if and how pain may modify the effect of opioids on neural systems that contribute to reward and addictive behavior. We hypothesized that the activation of ascending dopaminergic and serotonergic nuclei by morphine is modified by the presence of noxious stimulation. Immunohistochemical double-labeling technique with Fos was used to examine if an intraplantar formalin injection, an acute noxious input, changed the effect of morphine on dopaminergic neurons of the ventral tegmental area (VTA), and serotonergic neurons of the dorsal raphe nucleus (DR). Four groups of rats were analyzed: (1) control injected with normal saline s.c., (2) rats treated with formalin into the hind paw 30 min after normal saline injection, (3) rats injected with morphine sulfate s.c., and (4) rats treated with formalin into the hind paw 30 min after morphine injection (morphine/formalin). Following morphine injection, there was an increase in the number of dopaminergic neurons in the VTA with Fos immunolabeling. However, noxious stimulation did not detectably change morphine's effect on Fos expression in VTA dopamine neurons. In contrast, the number of serotonergic neurons containing Fos was increased in the morphine/formalin group compared to all other groups and this effect was topographically selective for the dorsal area of the DR at mid rostro-caudal levels. Therefore, morphine's activation of the VTA, which is associated with motivated behavior and reward seeking, appears similar in the context of pain. However, activation of the ascending serotonin system, which influences mood and has the capacity to modify reward pathways, appears different. In addition, these findings reveal interactions between nociceptive signaling and opioids that contrasts with the notion that opioids simply block access of nociceptive signaling to supraspinal structures.
Dyskinesia eventually develops in the majority of Parkinson's disease patients treated with l-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (l-DOPA). We have investigated the effect of an acute and local administration of L-DOPA, GABA and glutamate to provoke dyskinetic movements in three basal ganglia structures (striatum, globus pallidus (GP) and substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr)) of chronically L-DOPA-treated, unilaterally 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats. We demonstrated that L-DOPA administration into the lesioned striatum using the technique of reverse in vivo microdialysis was an effective trigger to switch on dyskinesia. Notably, local L-DOPA perfusion at the same concentration in the ipsilateral GP and SNr did not provoke significant dyskinetic behaviour. Neither GABA nor glutamate triggered dyskinetic movements in the striatum, GP or SNr. We postulate a site-specific action of L-DOPA for the evocation of already established dyskinesia since L-DOPA in the striatum but not in the GP or SNr switched on dyskinetic behaviour.
The dorsal (A9) and ventral striatum (A10) of the midbrain mediate many of the effects of psychoactive drugs that alter emotion, cognition, and motor activity within the contexts of therapy or abuse. Although transgenic and knockout technologies have enabled development of genetic models to dissect contributions of specific dopamine (DA) receptor subtypes to psychoactive drug effects, few models exist that can distinguish contributions of A9 versus A10 circuits. Pitx3 is a transcription factor enriched in DA neurons. Aphakia (ak) mice deficient in Pitx3 show selective loss of nigrostriatal DA, while other DA pathways are relatively spared, and therefore could be a useful tool for investigating the role of this subclass of DA projections. We investigated the effects of stimulants amphetamine, apomorphine, and MK-801 and the antipsychotic drug haloperidol on behavior in ak mice. Whereas wild-type mice showed the characteristic locomotor hyperactivity in response to amphetamine (5 mg/kg) and apomorphine (4 mg/kg), these drugs caused a paradoxical suppression of locomotor hyperactivity in ak mice. MK-801 (0.2 mg/kg) induced hyperactivity was maintained in both wt and ak mice. Additionally, mutant but not wild-type mice were insensitive to the cataleptic effects of haloperidol (1 mg/kg). These studies indicate that the nigrostriatal DA circuit plays a critical role in maintaining normal responsiveness to psychotropic drugs that either stimulate or block DA neurotransmission. We propose that ak mice may represent a valuable genetic model not only to study Parkinson's disease, but also to dissect the pathophysiologic and pharmacotherapuetic mechanisms of other DA-mediated disorders such as attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder, drug abuse and schizophrenia.
Synapse specific differences in NR2 subunit expression exist in several systems within the mammalian CNS. Here we have studied such differences on motoneurons in the neonatal rat cord using ifenprodil known to inhibit voltage-, use- and glycine-independent responses mediated by NR2B-containing N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) with high specificity. In neonatal rats (P1-P9), the synapses made by the dorsal root (DR) fibres were more sensitive to ifenprodil than ventrolateral funiculus (VLF) connections on the same motoneuron. DR connections exhibited very little additional blockade to bath-applied MK-801 whereas VLF connections displayed a further decrease in amplitude. This suggests that at this immediate postnatal age, DR synapses on motoneurons contain a higher proportion of ifenprodil-sensitive diheteromeric NR1/NR2B receptors than VLF synapses. Since DR synapses have been shown in other studies to be less mature than VLF synapses on the same motoneuron at this developmental stage, these data are interpreted as indicating that less mature NMDA receptors feature a higher proportion of NR2B subunits which declines as the synapse matures. This novel finding of staggered development of NMDA receptors from different synaptic inputs on the same motoneuron is discussed in the context of its developmental and functional implications.
Although there is a consensus that patients with schizophrenia have certain deficits in perceiving and expressing facial emotions, previous studies of facial emotion perception in schizophrenia do not present consistent results. The objective of this study was to explore facial emotion perception deficits in Chinese patients with schizophrenia and their non-psychotic first-degree relatives. Sixty-nine patients with schizophrenia, 56 of their first-degree relatives (33 parents and 23 siblings), and 92 healthy controls (67 younger healthy controls matched to the patients and siblings, and 25 older healthy controls matched to the parents) completed a set of facial emotion perception tasks, including facial emotion discrimination, identification, intensity, valence, and corresponding face identification tasks. The results demonstrated that patients with schizophrenia performed significantly worse than their siblings and younger healthy controls in accuracy in a variety of facial emotion perception tasks, whereas the siblings of the patients performed as well as the corresponding younger healthy controls in all of the facial emotion perception tasks. Patients with schizophrenia also showed significantly reduced speed than younger healthy controls, while siblings of patients did not demonstrate significant differences with both patients and younger healthy controls in speed. Meanwhile, we also found that parents of the schizophrenia patients performed significantly worse than the corresponding older healthy controls in accuracy in terms of facial emotion identification, valence, and the composite index of the facial discrimination, identification, intensity and valence tasks. Moreover, no significant differences were found between the parents of patients and older healthy controls in speed after controlling the years of education and IQ. Taken together, the results suggest that facial emotion perception deficits may serve as potential endophenotypes for schizophrenia.
Many studies with chronic stress, a common depression paradigm, lead to inconsistent behavioral results. We are introducing a new model of stress-induced anhedonia, which provides more reproducible induction and behavioral measuring of depressive-like phenotype in mice. First, a 4-week stress procedure induces anhedonia, defined by decreased sucrose preference, in the majority of but not all C57BL/6 mice. The remaining 30-50% non-anhedonic animals are used as an internal control for stress effects that are unrelated to anhedonia. Next, a modified sucrose test enables the detection of inter-individual differences in mice. Moreover, testing under dimmed lighting precludes behavioral artifacts caused by hyperlocomotion, a major confounding factor in stressed mice. Finally, moderation of the stress load increases the reproducibility of anhedonia induction, which otherwise is difficult to provide because of inter-batch variability in laboratory mice. We believe that our new mouse model overcomes some major difficulties in measuring behavior with chronic stress depression models.
Purpose of this study was to determine if the turtle has a consensual pupillary light response (cPLR), and if so, to compare it to its direct pupillary light response (dPLR). One eye was illuminated with different intensities of light over a four log range while keeping the other eye in darkness. In the eye directly illuminated, pupil diameter was reduced by as much as approximately 31%. In the eye not stimulated by light, pupil diameter was also reduced but less to approximately 11%. When compared to the directly illuminated eye, this generated a ratio, cPLR-dPLR, equal to 0.35. Ratio of slopes for log/linear fits to plots of pupil changes versus retinal irradiance for non-illuminated (-1.27) to illuminated (-3.94) eyes closely matched at 0.32. cPLR had time constants ranging from 0.60 to 1.20min; however, they were comparable and not statistically different from those of the dPLR, which ranged from 1.41 to 2.00min. Application of mydriatic drugs to the directly illuminated eye also supported presence of a cPLR. Drugs reduced pupil constriction by approximately 9% for the dPLR and slowed its time constant to 9.58min while simultaneous enhancing constriction by approximately 6% for the cPLR. Time constant for the cPLR at 1.75min, however, was not changed. Results support that turtle possesses a cPLR although less strong than its dPLR.
We describe a theoretical and computational model of the perception of plaid pattern motion which fully accounts for the majority of cases in which misperception of the direction of motion of Type II plaids has been observed [Yo, C., &amp; Wilson, H. (1992). Perceived direction of moving two-dimensional patterns depends on duration, contrast, and eccentricity. Vision Research 32, 135-147]. The model consists of two stages: in the first stage local motion detectors signal both the one-dimensional (1-D) and two-dimensional (2-D) motion of the high luminance features (blobs) in the plaid pattern; in the second stage these local motion signals are combined using a recursive Bayesian least squares estimation process. We demonstrate both theoretically and using simulations of the computational model that the estimated direction of the plaid motion for Type II plaids is initially dominated by the 1-D motion of the longer edges of the elongated blobs, which is in a direction close to the vector sum direction of the component gratings. The recursive estimation process which combines the local motion signals in the second stage of the model results in a dynamic shift in the estimated plaid direction towards the direction of the 2-D motion of the blobs, which corresponds to the veridical plaid direction.

Secondary degeneration is a process encompassing damage adjacent to a primary injury, usually involving increased Ca(2+) influx into neurons and glia. Lomerizine dihydrochloride is a calcium channel blocker with relatively selective CNS effects, currently in clinical trials for glaucoma. We have recently demonstrated that, following partial transection of the optic nerve (ON), 1 month of lomerizine treatment protects retinal ganglion cells (RGCs), incompletely preserves visual function and also limits elements of secondary degeneration, including macrophage infiltration. However, under some circumstances macrophages have been shown to have different supportive effects on RGC protection and regeneration, casting doubt on the benefit of longer term therapies that reduce macrophage numbers. Here, we determined whether shorter treatment times (1 day or 1 week) result in improved effects on RGC survival and visual function, and whether benefits are maintained after cessation of treatment. We demonstrate that 1 month of lomerizine is the minimum period required to restore the fast reset phase of the optokinetic nystagmus and maintain it for a further 2 months after cessation of treatment (p&gt;0.05, not different from normal). While 1 week of lomerizine treatment results in temporary recovery of numbers of fast reset phases, the recovery is not maintained after treatment cessation. Similarly, protection of RGC densities requires 1 month of lomerizine treatment, but protection is not maintained after treatment cessation. Importantly, none of the lomerizine treatment protocols resulted in full restoration of visual function, confirming the necessity of combining lomerizine with other treatment modalities.

The sensitivity and frequency selectivity of hearing result from tuned amplification by an active process in the mechanoreceptive hair cells. In most vertebrates, the active process stems from the active motility of hair bundles. The mammalian cochlea exhibits an additional form of mechanical activity termed electromotility: its outer hair cells (OHCs) change length upon electrical stimulation. The relative contributions of these two mechanisms to the active process in the mammalian inner ear is the subject of intense current debate. Here, we show that active hair-bundle motility and electromotility can together implement an efficient mechanism for amplification that functions like a ratchet: Sound-evoked forces, acting on the basilar membrane, are transmitted to the hair bundles, whereas electromotility decouples active hair-bundle forces from the basilar membrane. This unidirectional coupling can extend the hearing range well below the resonant frequency of the basilar membrane. It thereby provides a concept for low-frequency hearing that accounts for a variety of unexplained experimental observations from the cochlear apex, including the shape and phase behavior of apical tuning curves, their lack of significant nonlinearities, and the shape changes of threshold tuning curves of auditory-nerve fibers along the cochlea. The ratchet mechanism constitutes a general design principle for implementing mechanical amplification in engineering applications.
Measurement of body temperature remains one of the most common ways to assess health. An increase in temperature above what is considered to be a normal value is inevitably regarded as a sure sign of disease and referred to with one simple word: fever. In this review, we summarize how research on fever allowed the identification of the exogenous and endogenous molecules and pathways mediating the fever response. We also show how temperature elevation is common to different pathologies and how the molecular components of the fever-generation pathway represent drug targets for antipyretics, such as acetylsalicylic acid, the first &quot;blockbuster drug&quot;. We also show how fever research provided new insights into temperature and energy homeostasis, and into treatment of infection and inflammation.
The annual meeting of the American Society for Neural Therapy and Repair (ASNTR) has always introduced us to top-notch and up-to-date approaches for regenerative medicine related to neuroscience, ranging from stem cell-based therapy to novel drugs. The 16th ASNTR meeting focused on a variety of different topics, including the unknown pathogenesis or mechanisms of specific neurodegenerative diseases, stem cell biology, and development of novel alternative medicines or devices. Newly developed stem cells, such as amniotic epithelial stem cells and induced pluripotent stem cells, as well as well-known traditional stem cells, such as neural, embryonic, bone marrow mesenchymal, and human umbilical cord blood-derived stem cells, were reported. A number of commercialized stem cells were also covered at this meeting. Fetal neural tissues, such as ventral mesencephalon, striatum, and Schwann cells, were investigated for neurodegenerative diseases or spinal cord injury. A number of studies focused on novel methods for drug monitoring or graft tracking, and combination therapy with stem cells and medicine, such as cytokines or trophic factors. Finally, the National Institutes of Health guidelines for human stem cell research, clinical trials of commercialized stem cells without larger animal testing, and prohibition of medical tourism were big controversial issues that led to heated discussion.
AD (Alzheimer's disease) is a neurodegenerative disease and the most common form of dementia. One of the pathological hallmarks of AD is the aggregation of extracellular As (amyloid -peptides) in senile plaques in the brain. The process could be initiated by seeding provided by an interaction between G(M1) ganglioside and As. Several reports have documented the bifunctional roles of As in NSCs (neural stem cells), but the precise effects of G(M1) and A on NSCs have not yet been clarified. We evaluated the effect of G(M1) and A-(1-40) on mouse NECs (neuroepithelial cells), which are known to be rich in NSCs. No change of cell number was detected in NECs cultured in the presence of either G(M1) or A-(1-40). On the contrary, a decreased number of NECs were cultured in the presence of a combination of G(M1) and A-(1-40). The exogenously added G(M1) and A-(1-40) were confirmed to incorporate into NECs. The Ras-MAPK (mitogen-activated protein kinase) pathway, important for cell proliferation, was intact in NECs simultaneously treated with G(M1) and A-(1-40), but caspase 3 was activated. NECs treated with G(M1) and A-(1-40) were positive in the TUNEL (terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick-end labelling) assay, an indicator of cell death. It was found that G(M1) and A-(1-40) interacted in the presence of cholesterol and sphingomyelin, components of cell surface microdomains. The cytotoxic effect was found also in NSCs prepared via neurospheres. These results indicate that A-(1-40) and G(M1) co-operatively exert a cytotoxic effect on NSCs, likely via incorporation into NEC membranes, where they form a complex for the activation of cell death signalling.
The D3 but not D2 dopamine receptors exhibit a tolerance property in which agonist-induced D3 receptor response progressively decreases upon repeated agonist stimulation. We have previously shown that the D3 receptor tolerance property is not mediated by receptor internalization, persistent agonist binding or a decrease in receptor binding affinity. In this paper, we test the hypothesis that alterations in D3 receptor conformation underlie the tolerance property. Structural models of wild type and mutant human D3 receptors were generated using the beta adrenergic receptor crystal structure as a template. These models suggested that the agonist-bound D3 receptor undergoes conformational changes that could underlie its tolerance property. To experimentally assess changes in receptor conformation, we measured the accessibility of native cysteine residues present in the extracellular and transmembrane regions of the human D3 receptor to two different thiol-modifying biotinylating reagents. The accessibilities of the native cysteine residues present in the D3 receptor were assessed under control conditions, in the presence of agonist and under conditions that induced receptor tolerance. By comparing the accessibility of D3 receptor cysteine residues to hydrophobic and hydrophilic thiol-modifying biotinylating reagents, we show that the alteration of D3 receptor conformation during tolerance involves the net movement of cysteine residues into a hydrophobic environment. Our results show that the conformation state of the D3 receptor during tolerance is distinct from the conformation under basal and agonist-bound conditions. The results suggest that the D3 receptor tolerance property is mediated by conformational changes that may uncouple the receptor from G-protein signaling.

A series of N(3)-pyridylpyrazinones was investigated as corticotropin-releasing factor-1 receptor antagonists. It was observed that the binding affinity of analogues containing a pyridyl group was influenced not only by the substitution pattern on the pyridyl group, but also by the pK(a) of the pyridyl nitrogen. Analogues containing a novel 6-(difluoromethoxy)-2,5-dimethylpyridin-3-amine group were among the most potent N(3)-pyridylpyrazinones synthesized. The synthesis and SAR of N(3)-pyridylpyrazinones is described herein.
Three novel series of histamine H(4) receptor (H(4)R) antagonists containing the 2-aminopyrimidine motif are reported. The best of these compounds display good in vitro potency in both functional and binding assays. In addition, representative compounds are able to completely block itch responses when dosed ip in a mouse model of H(4)-agonist induced scratching, thus demonstrating their activities as H(4)R antagonists.
The identification of a highly selective D(2) partial agonist, D(3) antagonist tool molecule which demonstrates high levels of brain exposure and selectivity against an extensive range of dopamine, serotonin, adrenergic, histamine, and muscarinic receptors is described.
We report here a technique for use in electrical interfaces between neurons and microelectronics, using vertically integrated silicon probe arrays with diameters of 2-3.5 microm and lengths of 60-120 microm. Silicon probe arrays can be fabricated by selective vapor-liquid-solid (VLS) growth. A doped n-type silicon probe with the resistance of 1 k Omega has an electrical impedance of less than 10 M Omega in physiological saline. After inserting the probe arrays into the retina of a carp (Cyrpinus carpio), we conducted electrical recording of neural signals, using the probes to measure light-evoked electrical neural signals. We determined that recorded signals represented local field potentials of the retina (electroretinogram (ERG)). The VLS-probe can provide minimally invasive neural recording/stimulation capabilities at high spatial resolution for fundamental studies of nervous systems. In addition, the probe arrays can be integrated with microelectronics; therefore, these probes make it possible to construct interfaces between neurons and microelectronics in advanced neuroscience applications.

Leber congenital amaurosis (LCA) caused by mutations in Aryl hydrocarbon receptor interacting protein like-1 (Aipl1) is a severe form of childhood blindness. At 4 weeks of age, a mouse model of LCA lacking AIPL1 exhibits complete degeneration of both rod and cone photoreceptors. Rod cell death occurs due to rapid destabilization of rod phosphodiesterase, an enzyme essential for rod survival and function. However, little is understood regarding the role of AIPL1 in cone photoreceptors. Cone degeneration observed in the absence of AIPL1 could be due to an indirect 'bystander effect' caused by rod photoreceptor death or a direct role for AIPL1 in cones. To understand the importance of AIPL1 in cone photoreceptor cells, we transgenically expressed hAIPL1 exclusively in the rod photoreceptors of the Aipl1(-/-) mouse. Transgenic expression of hAIPL1 restored rod morphology and the rod-derived electroretinogram response, but cone photoreceptors were non-functional in the absence of AIPL1. In addition, the cone photoreceptors degenerate, but at a slower rate compared with Aipl1(-/-) mice. This degeneration is linked to the highly reduced levels of cone PDE6 observed in the hAIPL1 transgenic mice. Our studies demonstrate that AIPL1 is needed for the proper functioning and survival of cone photoreceptors. However, rod photoreceptors also provide support that partially preserves cone photoreceptors from rapid death in the absence of AIPL1.
Aqueous suspensions of metal organic frameworks (MOF) containing different Ln(3+) ions, consisting of a series of layered Ln(3+) networks formulated as [Ln(H(2)cmp)(H(2)O)] (where H(5)cmp is (carboxymethyl)iminodi(methylphosphonic acid), with a relatively wide size distribution (400 nm to 1 microm) were studied by relaxometry. The water (1)H longitudinal (r(1)) and transverse (r(2)) relaxivities were obtained for aqueous suspensions of these materials with different lanthanide ions. The values of r(1) are very small and varied only slightly with the effective magnetic moment (mu(eff)) of the lanthanide ions, while r(2) values are larger and proportional to the value of mu(eff)(2). The dependence of R(2) on tau(CP) (the time interval between two consecutive refocusing pulses in the train of 180 degrees pulses applied in a CPMG pulse sequence) was evaluated. The value of R(2) initially increases with tau(CP) and then saturates at higher tau(CP) at a value that is about 3 to 5 times lower than R(2p)*. This can be explained by the static dephasing regime (SDR) theory, in which the diffusion effect is taken into account and where the condition tau(D) &gt; Delta omega(r(p))(-1) holds (tau(D) = r(p)(2)/D, where D is the diffusion coefficient, r(p) is the radius of the particle, and Delta omega(r(p)) is the Larmor frequency shift at the particle's surface). Separation of the particles into two fractions with different particle sizes led to a significant enhancement of the r(2) relaxivity of the smaller particles with a narrow size distribution. Magnetometric measurements performed with the particles containing Dy(III), Ho(III), and Gd(III) showed a typical paramagnetic behavior from 4 to 100 K, used to determine the Curie constants.
Mitochondria display different morphologies, depending on cell type and physiological situation. In many senescent cell types, an extensive elongation of mitochondria occurs, implying that the increase of mitochondrial length in senescence could have a functional role. To test this hypothesis, human endothelial cells (HUVECs) were aged in vitro. Young HUVECs had tubular mitochondria, whereas senescent cells were characterized by long interconnected mitochondria. The change in mitochondrial morphology was caused by downregulation of the expression of Fis1 and Drp1, two proteins regulating mitochondrial fission. Targeted photodamage of mitochondria induced the formation of reactive oxygen species (ROS), which triggered mitochondrial fragmentation and loss of membrane potential in young cells, whereas senescent cells proved to be resistant. Alterations of the Fis1 and Drp1 expression levels also influenced the expression of the putative serine-threonine kinase PINK1, which is associated with the PARK6 variant of Parkinson's disease. Downregulation of PINK1 or overexpression of a PINK1 mutant (G309D) increased the sensitivity against ROS in young cells. These results indicate that there is a Drp1- and Fis1-induced, and PINK1-mediated protection mechanism in senescent cells, which, when compromised, could contribute to the age-related progression of Parkinson's disease and arteriosclerosis.
MAPK/Erk is a protein kinase activated by neurotrophic factors involved in synapse formation and plasticity, which acts at both the nuclear and cytoplasmic level. Synapsin proteins are synaptic-vesicle-associated proteins that are well known to be MAPK/Erk substrates at phylogenetically conserved sites. However, the physiological role of MAPK/Erk-dependent synapsin phosphorylation in regulating synaptic formation and function is poorly understood. Here, we examined whether synapsin acts as a physiological effector of MAPK/Erk in synaptogenesis and plasticity. To this aim, we developed an in vitro model of soma-to-soma paired Helix B2 neurons, that establish bidirectional excitatory synapses. We found that the formation and activity-dependent short-term plasticity of these synapses is dependent on the MAPK/Erk pathway. To address the role of synapsin in this pathway, we generated non-phosphorylatable and pseudo-phosphorylated Helix synapsin mutants at the MAPK/Erk sites. Overexpression experiments revealed that both mutants interfere with presynaptic differentiation, synapsin clustering, and severely impair post-tetanic potentiation, a form of short-term homosynaptic plasticity. Our findings show that MAPK/Erk-dependent synapsin phosphorylation has a dual role both in the establishment of functional synaptic connections and their short-term plasticity, indicating that some of the multiple extranuclear functions of MAPK/Erk in neurons can be mediated by the same multifunctional presynaptic target.
Glial cells have several critical roles in the developing and adult olfactory (antennal) lobe of the moth Manduca sexta. Early in development, glial cells occupy discrete regions of the developing olfactory pathway and processes of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic neurons extend into some of these regions. Because GABA is known to have developmental effects in a variety of systems, we explored the possibility that the glial cells express a GABA transporter that could regulate GABA levels to which olfactory neurons and glial cells are exposed. By using an antibody raised against a characterized high-affinity M. sexta GABA transporter with high sequence homology to known mammalian GABA transporters (Mbungu et al. [1995] Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 318:489-497; Umesh and Gill [2002] J. Comp. Neurol. 448:388-398), we found that the GABA transporter is localized to subsets of centrally derived glial cells during metamorphic adult development. The transporter persists into adulthood in a subset of the neuropil-associated glial cells, but its distribution pattern as determined by light-and electron-microscopic-level immunocytochemistry indicates that it could not serve to regulate GABA concentration in the synaptic cleft. Instead, its role is more likely to regulate extracellular GABA levels within the glomerular neuropil. Expression in the sorting zone glial cells disappears after the period of olfactory receptor axon ingrowth, but may be important during ingrowth if GABA regulates axon growth. Glial cells take up GABA, and that uptake can be blocked by L-2,4-diaminobutyric acid (DABA). This is the first molecular evidence that the central glial cell population in this pathway is heterogeneous.
The transcription factor peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)-delta promotes oligodendrocyte differentiation and myelin formation in vitro and is prevalent throughout the brain and spinal cord. Its expression after injury, however, has not been examined. Thus, we used a spinal contusion model to examine the spatiotemporal expression of PPAR-delta in nave and injured spinal cords from adult rats. As previously reported, PPAR-delta was expressed by neurons and oligodendrocytes in uninjured spinal cords; PPAR-delta was also detected in NG2 cells (potential oligodendrocyte progenitors) within the white matter and gray matter. After spinal cord injury (SCI), PPAR-delta mRNA and protein were present early and increased over time. Overall PPAR-delta+ cell numbers declined at 1 day post injury (dpi), likely reflecting neuron loss, and then rose through 14 dpi. A large proportion of NG2 cells expressed PPAR-delta after SCI, especially along lesion borders. PPAR-delta+ NG2 cell numbers were significantly higher than naive by 7 dpi and remained elevated through at least 28 dpi. PPAR-delta+ oligodendrocyte numbers declined at 1 dpi and then increased over time such that &gt;20% of oligodendrocytes expressed PPAR-delta after SCI compared with approximately 10% in uninjured tissue. The most prominent increase in PPAR-delta+ oligodendrocytes was along lesion borders where at least a portion of newly generated oligodendrocytes (bromodeoxyuridine+) were PPAR-delta+. Consistent with its role in cellular differentiation, the early rise in PPAR-delta+ NG2 cells followed by an increase in new PPAR-delta+ oligodendrocytes suggests that this transcription factor may be involved in the robust oligodendrogenesis detected previously along SCI lesion borders.
The gene transcripts encoding both the AF8 and AF2 neuropeptides of the nematode Ascaris suum have been identified, cloned, and sequenced. The AF8 transcript (afp-3) encodes five identical copies of AF8; each peptide-encoding region is flanked by the appropriate dibasic or monobasic cleavage processing sites. The AF2 transcript (afp-4) encodes three identical copies of AF2 along with the appropriate cleavage sites. In contrast, the afp-1 transcript (Edison et al. [1997] Peptides 18:929-935) encodes six different AF peptides (AF3, 4, 10, 13, 14, 20) which all share a -PGVLRFamide C-terminus but have different N-terminal sequences. By using in situ hybridization, gene transcript expression patterns of afp-1, afp-3, and afp-4 (As-flp-18, As-flp-6, and As-flp-14, respectively, in the naming convention proposed by Blaxter et al. [1997] Parasitol Today 13:416-417) were determined in the adult A. suum anterior nervous system. Each gene transcript can be localized to a different subset of neurons. These subsets of neurons are different from the subsets of Caenorhabditis elegans neurons that were shown to express identical or similar peptides by the use of promoter GFP constructs (Kim and Li [2004] J Comp Neurol 475:540-550).
The main olfactory bulb (OB) is made up of several concentric layers, forming circuitries often involving dendro-dendritic synapses. Important interactions between OB neurons occur in the external plexiform layer (EPL), where dendrites of tufted and Van Gehuchten cells form synapses with dendrites of deeper lying mitral, tufted, and granule cells. OB neurons display a variety of neurotransmitters. Here, the focus is on calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), a 37-amino acid neuropeptide transmitter that is widely distributed in the central and peripheral nervous system. In the OB, CGRP-immunoreactive (ir) cell bodies were mostly observed in the mitral cell layer (MCL) of normal mice, and their number increased following colchicine treatment. Sparsely distributed CGRP-ir cell bodies were also found in the EPL and granular cell layer. Double-immunofluorescence experiments revealed a lack of co-localization between CGRP-like immunoreactivity (LI) and corticotropin-releasing factor- or galanin-LI, two markers for mitral cells, and no CGRP-LI was found in cholecystokinin-, parvalbumin-, or vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-ir tufted/Van Gehuchten cells. CGRP-ir cell bodies were not found to co-localize glutamic acid decarboxylase 67 (GAD67)-green fluorescence protein, gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-, or calretinin-LI, although the possibility remains that CGRP-ir cells may contain low levels of GABA and/or GAD67 not detected by our methodology. Dendrites of CGRP-ir cells extensively ramified deep in the EPL and double-immunofluorescence revealed them to be adjacent with, often apparently contacting, dendrites of granule, mitral, tufted, and Van Gehuchten cells. We propose that these CGRP-ir cell bodies in the mouse OB are &quot;satellite-like&quot; cells within and, occasionally, close to the MCL.
In an effort to alter the levels of neurochemicals involved in excitotoxicity, we treated mice with methionine sulfoximine (MSO), an inhibitor of glutamine synthetase. Since glutamate toxicity has been proposed as a mechanism for the degeneration of motor neurons in a variety of neurodegenerative diseases, we tested the effects of MSO on the transgenic mouse that overexpresses the mutant human SOD1(G93A) gene, an animal model for the primary inherited form of the human neurodegenerative disease amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). This treatment in vivo reduced glutamine synthetase activity measured in vitro by 85%. Proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy, with magic angle spinning of intact samples of brain tissue, showed that MSO treatment reduced brain levels of glutamine by 60% and of glutamate by 30% in both the motor cortex and the anterior striatum, while also affecting levels of GABA and glutathione. Kaplan-Meyer survival analysis revealed that MSO treatment significantly extended the lifespan of these mice by 8% (p&lt;0.01). These results show that in the SOD1(G93A) model of neurodegenerative diseases, the concentration of brain glutamate (determined with (1)H-MRS) can be lowered by inhibiting in vivo the synthesis of glutamine with non-toxic doses of MSO.

Gene expression analysis previously identified molecular markers that are up-regulated in sural nerve biopsies from patients with chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP). To determine whether the same or additional genes are also up-regulated in skin, we applied gene microarray profiling and quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR) analysis to skin punch biopsies from patients with CIDP and controls. Five genes, allograft inflammatory factor 1 (AIF-1), lymphatic hyaluronan receptor (LYVE-1/XLKD1), FYN binding protein (FYB), P2RY1 (purinergic receptor P2Y, G-protein-coupled, 1), and MLLT3 (myeloid/lymphoid or mixed-lineage leukemia translocated to, 3), all associated with immune cells or inflammatory processes, were elevated in punch skin biopsies from patients with CIDP as compared to normal subjects or patients with Charcot-Marie-Tooth Type 1 (CMT1). The average fold change of the 5 genes over normal expression, as determined by qPCR, was significantly elevated in skin biopsies from patients with CIDP in comparison to CMT1 or diabetic neuropathy, and similar to that seen in Lyme disease. The findings indicate the presence of inflammatory changes in the skin of patients with CIDP.
The present work introduces an electrode microdrive system small enough to be placed into two distinct brain areas in head-fixed mice. To meet the space constraint imposed by the size of mice and the additional presence of a head post, the size and weight of the components were minimized. In the current version, an individual microdrive moves an array of four Reitboeck type electrodes. We report about successful implantation in rats and mice using one or two microdrives. Using two of these devices in individual mice/rats, the recording of parallel single and multi-unit as well as local field potential from prefrontal, motor, somatosensory cortex and hippocampus is demonstrated. The system can be easily constructed with machinery and equipment present in most neurophysiology labs.
New imaging technologies have increased our capabilities to resolve three-dimensional structures from microscopic samples. Laser-scanning confocal microscopy is particularly amenable to this task because it allows the researcher to optically section biological samples, creating three-dimensional image volumes. However, a number of problems arise when studying neural tissue samples. These include data set size, physical scanning restrictions, volume registration and display. To deal with these issues, we undertook large-scale confocal scanning microscopy in order to visualize neural networks spanning multiple tissue sections. We demonstrate a technique to create and visualize a three-dimensional digital reconstruction of the hypothalamic arginine vasopressin neuroendocrine system in the male mouse. The generated three-dimensional data included a volume of tissue that measures 4.35 mm x 2.6 mm x 1.4mm with a voxel resolution of 1.2 microm. The dataset matrix included 3508 x 2072 x 700 pixels and was a composite of 19,600 optical sections. Once reconstructed into a single volume, the data is suitable for interactive stereoscopic projection. Stereoscopic imaging provides greater insight and understanding of spatial relationships in neural tissues' inherently three-dimensional structure. This technique provides a model approach for the development of data sets that can provide new and informative volume rendered views of brain structures. This study affirms the value of stereoscopic volume-based visualization in neuroscience research and education, and the feasibility of creating large-scale high resolution interactive three-dimensional reconstructions of neural tissue from microscopic imagery.
The significance and extent of Ca(2+) regulation of the biosynthetic secretory pathway have been difficult to establish, and our knowledge of regulatory relationships integrating Ca(2+) with vesicle coats and function is rudimentary. Here, we investigated potential roles and mechanisms of luminal Ca(2+) in the early secretory pathway. Specific depletion of luminal Ca(2+) in living normal rat kidney cells using cyclopiazonic acid (CPA) resulted in the extreme expansion of vesicular tubular cluster (VTC) elements. Consistent with this, a suppressive role for vesicle-associated Ca(2+) in COPII vesicle homotypic fusion was demonstrated in vitro using Ca(2+) chelators. The EF-hand-containing protein apoptosis-linked gene 2 (ALG-2), previously implicated in the stabilization of sec31 at endoplasmic reticulum exit sites, inhibited COPII vesicle fusion in a Ca(2+)-requiring manner, suggesting that ALG-2 may be a sensor for the effects of vesicular Ca(2+) on homotypic fusion. Immunoisolation established that Ca(2+) chelation inhibits and ALG-2 specifically favors residual retention of the COPII outer shell protein sec31 on pre-Golgi fusion intermediates. We conclude that vesicle-associated Ca(2+), acting through ALG-2, favors the retention of residual coat molecules that seem to suppress membrane fusion. We propose that in cells, these Ca(2+)-dependent mechanisms temporally regulate COPII vesicle interactions, VTC biogenesis, cargo sorting, and VTC maturation.
Alpha-synuclein (alpha-syn) is an intracellular protein with a high tendency to aggregation. It is the major component of Lewy bodies and may play a key role in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD). alpha-Syn is also released by neurons and can be detected in biological fluids, such as plasma. The purpose of this study was to determine whether plasma alpha-syn concentrations are elevated in newly diagnosed PD patients before treatment (nontreated PD group, ntPD; n = 53) and to compare them with concentrations in PD patients with at least 1 year of specific treatment (tPD; n = 42) and in healthy controls (n = 60). Plasma alpha-syn concentrations in the ntPD and tPD groups were similar and significantly higher than in healthy controls. In conclusion, alpha-syn was elevated early in the development of PD and specific PD treatment did not change plasma alpha-syn levels.
A small proportion of patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) develop a dopamine dysregulation syndrome (DDS). Management of such patients can be difficult; hence, early identification and careful monitoring of at-risk individuals are important. Based on four illustrative cases, we wish to draw attention to the risk of developing DDS in PD patients engaged in a creative and artistic profession, who compulsively abuse dopaminergic drugs to maintain or enhance their artistic creativity. Balancing the drug requirement for treating motor symptoms on one hand and improving creativity on the other hand has to be carefully evaluated and early neuropsychiatric intervention may be necessary. Apart from the known risk factors-young age at PD onset, male gender, heavy alcohol consumption, illegal drug use, and history of affective disorder-engagement in a creative or artistic profession may be an additional risk factor for developing DDS.
