

The alpha subunit of the human skeletal muscle Na(+) channel recorded from cell-attached patches yielded, as expected for Xenopus oocytes, two current components that were stable for tens of minutes during 0.2 Hz stimulation. Within seconds of applying sustained stretch, however, the slower component began decreasing and, depending on stretch intensity, disappeared in 1-3 min. Simultaneously, the faster current increased. The resulting fast current kinetics and voltage sensitivity were indistinguishable from the fast components 1) left after 10 Hz depolarizations, and 2) that dominated when alpha subunit was co-expressed with human beta1 subunit. Although high frequency depolarization-induced loss of slow current was reversible, the stretch-induced slow-to-fast conversion was irreversible. The conclusion that stretch converted a single population of alpha subunits from an abnormal slow to a bona fide fast gating mode was confirmed by using gigaohm seals formed without suction, in which fast gating was originally absent. For brain Na(+) channels, co-expressing G proteins with the channel alpha subunit yields slow gating. Because both stretch and beta1 subunits induced the fast gating mode, perhaps they do so by minimizing alpha subunit interactions with G proteins or with other regulatory molecules available in oocyte membrane. Because of the possible involvement of oocyte molecules, it remains to be determined whether the Na(+) channel alpha subunit was directly or secondarily susceptible to bilayer tension.
1. Sigma (sigma) receptors have recently been cloned, though their endogenous ligand(s) remain unidentified. However, some neuroactive steroids, such as progesterone, have a high affinity for these receptors. Some sigma ligands, such as DTG, (+)-pentazocine and DHEA, act as sigma 'agonists' by potentiating the neuronal response to NMDA. Others, such as haloperidol, NE-100 and progesterone, act as sigma 'antagonists' by reversing the potentiations induced by sigma 'agonists'. 2. We compared the effects of sigma 'agonists' in four series of female rats: in controls, at day 18 of pregnancy, at day 5 post-partum, and in ovariectomized rats following a 3-week treatment with a high dose of progesterone. 3. In pregnant rats and following a 3-week treatment with progesterone, 10 fold higher doses of DTG, (+)-pentazocine and DHEA were required to elicit a selective potentiation of the NMDA response comparable to that obtained in control females. Conversely, at day 5 post-partum and following the 3-week treatment with a progesterone and after a 5-day washout, the potentiation of the NMDA response induced by the sigma 'agonist' DTG was greater than in control females. 4. The present data suggest that endogenous progesterone acts as an 'antagonist' at sigma receptors. The resulting changes in the function of sigma receptors during pregnancy and post-partum may be implicated in emotional phenomena occurring during these periods.
1. The aim of the present study was to characterize functional responses to ropinirole, its major metabolites in man (SKF-104557 (4-[2-(propylamino)ethyl]-2-(3H) indolone), SKF-97930 (4-carboxy-2-(3H) indolone)) and other dopamine receptor agonists at human dopamine D2(long) (hD2), D3 (hD3) and D4.4 (hD4) receptors separately expressed in Chinese hamster ovary cells using microphysiometry. 2. All the receptor agonists tested (ropinirole, SKF-104557, SKF-97930, bromocriptine, lisuride, pergolide, pramipexole, talipexole, dopamine) increased extracellular acidification rate in Chinese hamster ovary clones expressing the human D2, D3 or D4 receptor. The pEC50s of ropinirole at hD2, hD3 and hD4 receptors were 7.4, 8.4 and 6.8, respectively. Ropinirole is therefore at least 10 fold selective for the human dopamine D3 receptor over the other D2 receptor family members. 3. At the hD2 and hD3 dopamine receptors all the compounds tested were full agonists as compared to quinpirole. Talipexole and the ropinirole metabolite, SKF-104557, were partial agonists at the hD4 receptor. 4. Bromocriptine and lisuride had a slow onset of agonist action which precluded determination of EC50s. 5. The rank order of agonist potencies was dissimilar to the rank order of radioligand binding affinities at each of the dopamine receptor subtypes. Functional selectivities of the dopamine receptor agonists, as measured in the microphysiometer, were less than radioligand binding selectivities. 6. The results show that ropinirole is a full agonist at human D2, D3 and D4 dopamine receptors. SKF-104557 the major human metabolite of ropinirole, had similar radioligand binding affinities to, but lower functional potencies than, the parent compound.
1. Experiments were made to investigate mechanisms by which adenosine 5'-trisphosphate (ATP) enhanced vasomotion in mesenteric lymphatic vessels isolated from young guinea-pigs. 2. ATP (10-8 - 10-3 M) caused a concentration-dependent increase of perfusion-induced vasomotion with the endothelium mediating a fundamental role at low ATP concentrations (10-8 - 10-6 M). 3. The response to 10-6 M ATP showed tachyphylaxis when applied at intervals of 10 min but not at intervals of 20 or 30 min. 4. Suramin (10-4 M) or reactive blue 2 (3x10-5 M) but not PPADS (3x10-5 M) abolished the excitatory response to 10-6 M ATP confirming an involvement of P2 purinoceptors. 5. The excitatory response to 10-6 M ATP was abolished by treatment with either pertussis toxin (100 ng ml-1), antiflammin-1 (10-9 M), indomethacin (3x10-6 M) or SQ29548 (3x10-7 M), inhibitors of specific G proteins, phospholipase A2, cyclo-oxygenase and thromboxane A2 receptors respectively. 6. ATP simultaneously induced a suramin-sensitive inhibitory response, which was normally masked by the excitatory response. ATP-induced inhibition was mediated by endothelium-derived nitric oxide (EDNO) as the response was abolished by NG-nitro-L-arginine (L-NOARG; 10-4 M), an inhibitor of nitric oxide synthase. 7. We conclude that ATP modulates lymphatic vasomotion by endothelium-dependent and endothelium-independent mechanisms. One of these is a dominant excitation caused through endothelial P2 purinoceptors which because of an involvement of a pertussis toxin sensitive G-protein may be of the P2Y receptor subtype. Their stimulation increases synthesis of phospholipase A2 and production of thromboxane A2, an arachidonic acid metabolite which acts as an endothelium-derived excitatory factor.
1. The effects of GABA(B), opioid and alpha2 receptor activation on different subtypes of calcium channels in acutely-dissociated rat locus coeruleus (LC) neurones were investigated using whole-cell patch clamping. 2. Barium currents through calcium channels could be fractionated into four classes: L-type (nimodipine-sensitive), N-type (omega-conotoxin GVIA-sensitive), P/Q-type (omega-agatoxin IVA-sensitive) and R-type (remaining in the presence of all three blockers). The percentage of each was, respectively, 25+/-2, 34+/-1, 28+/-3 and 12+/-1% (mean+/-s.e.mean, n=4). 3. The GABA(B) receptor agonist, baclofen, and the opioid receptor agonist, enkephalin, partially inhibited the total barium current in a concentration-dependent manner with EC50 values of 2 and 0.3 microm , respectively. Maximal inhibition was 17+/-1% (n=38) for baclofen and 30+/-2% (n=20) for enkephalin. The alpha2-adrenoceptor agonist, UK14304 (10 microM), also inhibited barium current in these neurones (28+/-2%, n=11). The agonists did not shift the current-voltage relationship along the voltage axis. 4. Maximal baclofen inhibition of different calcium channel subtypes was 9+/-7% (L-type, n=4), 11+/-8% (N-type, n=4), 26+/-6% (P/Q-type, n=4), and 6+/-5% (R-type, n=5). The corresponding values for enkephalin inhibition were 5+/-9% (L-type), 30+/-11% (N-type), 37+/-9% (P/Q-type), and 17+/-8% (R-type). 5. In the presence of a saturating concentration of enkephalin, baclofen produced additional inhibition of the barium current. In contrast, in the presence of a saturating concentration of enkephalin, UK14304 produced no further inhibition of the barium current. 6. These results indicate that neuromodulation of calcium channels in LC neurones involves a complex pattern of overlapping and distinct second messenger pathways. Regulation of LC neuronal firing activity by the modulation of calcium channels may be important for LC-mediated behaviour such as alertness and vigilance.
Juvenile amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a form of chronic motor neuron disease characterized by combined upper and lower motor neuron symptoms and signs with onset prior to age 25 years. We report the clinical and electrodiagnostic findings in 49 affected family members and neuropathological findings from two autopsies of a Maryland kindred with autosomal dominant juvenile ALS linked to the chromosome 9q34 region (ALS4). Patients ranged in age from 12 to 85 years (mean 45 years) and the mean age of onset was 17 years. Distal weakness and atrophy was associated with pyramidal signs (43/49) and normal sensation (44/49). Motor conduction studies (n = 8) showed reduced evoked amplitudes and normal conduction parameters. Sensory conduction studies (n = 8), quantitative sensory testing (n = 4) and intracutaneous sensory fibres in skin biopsies (n = 6) were normal in all patients tested. Electromyography showed distal more than proximal chronic partial denervation and reinnervation (n = 8). Post-mortem spinal cord tissue demonstrated atrophic spinal cords with marked loss of anterior horn cells and degeneration of corticospinal tracts, as well as loss of neurons in the dorsal root ganglia and degeneration of the posterior columns. Axonal spheroids were present in the grey matter of the spinal cord, the dorsal root entry zones and the peripheral nerves. Motor and sensory roots, as well as peripheral nerves, showed significant axonal loss. Swellings were prominent around motor neurons, probably representing changes in presynaptic terminals. These studies define autosomal dominant juvenile ALS linked to the chromosome 9q34 region (ALS4) and extend the clinical, pathological and genetic heterogeneity of familial ALS and juvenile ALS.
Despite the substantial literature on the functional architecture of the asymmetries of the human brain, which has been accumulating for more than 130 years since Dax and Broca's early reports, the biological foundations of cerebral asymmetries are still poorly understood. Recent advances in comparative cognitive neurosciences have made available new animal models that have started to provide unexpected insights into the evolutionary origins and neuronal mechanisms of cerebral asymmetries. Animal model-systems, particularly those provided by the avian brain, highlight the interrelations of genetic, hormonal and environmental events to produce neural and behavioural asymmetries. Novel evidences showing that functional and structural lateralization of the brain is widespread among vertebrates (including fish, reptiles and amphibians) have accumulated rapidly. Perceptual asymmetries, in particular, seem to be ubiquitous in everyday behaviour of most species of animals with laterally placed eyes; in organisms with wider binocular overlap (e.g., amphibians), they appear to be retained for initial detection of stimuli in the extreme lateral fields. We speculate that adjustment of head position and eye movements may play a similar role in mammals with frontal vision as does the choice for right or left lateral visual fields in animals with laterally placed eyes. A first attempt to trace back the origins of brain asymmetry to early vertebrates is presented, based on the hypothesis that functional incompatibility between the logical demands associated with very basic cognitive functions is central to the phenomenon of cerebral lateralization.
Sexual dimorphism of the mammalian central nervous system (CNS) has been widely documented. Morphological sex differences in brain areas underlie sex differences in function. To distinguish sex differences in physiological function from underlying sexual dimorphisms, we use the term, sexual diergism, to encompass differences in function between males and females. Whereas the influence of sex hormones on CNS morphological characteristics and function of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis has been well-documented, little is known about sexual diergism of CNS control of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. Many studies have been conducted on both men and women but have not reported comparisons between them, and many animal studies have used males or females, but not both. From a diergic standpoint, the CNS cholinergic system appears to be more responsive to stress and other stimuli in female than in male mammals; but from a dimorphic standpoint, it is anatomically larger, higher in cell density, and more stable with age in males than in females. Dimorphism often produces diergism, but age, hormones, environment and genetics contribute differentially. This review focuses on the sexual diergism of CNS cholinergic and vasopressinergic systems and their relationship to the HPA axis, with resulting implications for the study of behavior, disease, and therapeutics.
Vertebrate gap junctions are aggregates of transmembrane channels which are composed of connexin (Cx) proteins encoded by at least fourteen distinct genes in mammals. Since the same Cx type can be expressed in different tissues and more than one Cx type can be expressed by the same cell, the thorough identification of which connexin is in which cell type and how connexin expression changes after experimental manipulation has become quite laborious. Here we describe an efficient, rapid and simple method by which connexin type(s) can be identified in mammalian tissue and cultured cells using endonuclease cleavage of RT-PCR products generated from &quot;multi primers&quot; (sense primer, degenerate oligonucleotide corresponding to a region of the first extracellular domain; antisense primer, degenerate oligonucleotide complementary to the second extracellular domain) that amplify the cytoplasmic loop regions of all known connexins except Cx36. In addition, we provide sequence information on RT-PCR primers used in our laboratory to screen individual connexins and predictions of extension of the &quot;multi primer&quot; method to several human connexins.
Herbert Henri Jasper dedicated his life to studies of the brain in relation to the mind and behavior. He pioneered the application of the electroencephalogram (EEG) for the study of the electrical activity of the brain and used this technique in studies of consciousness, learning and particularly the examination of epileptic discharge. He utilized microelectrode recordings from single brain cells and combined this technique with microchemical analyses to study cortical and sub-cortical activity. He added substantially to our understanding of brainstem and thalamic reticular formations in conditions of consciousness and in relation to petit-mal epilepsy. His work with Wilder Penfield and associates over a quarter century elucidated the mechanisms of epilepsy and added to our understanding of the functional anatomy of the human brain. An enthusiastic and able organizer, Herbert Jasper was responsible for many international conferences on brain science and worked tirelessly to develop international collaboration among investigators of the nervous system, being one of the founders of the International Brain Research Organization and the Society for Neuroscience. His prodigious contributions in basic and clinical research will be recognized by the world community of brain science for years to come.

We analyzed the hMLH1 and hMSH2 genes in 30 unrelated hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer (HNPCC) patients using mutational and immunohistochemical analyses combined whenever possible with primer extension assays, designed to estimate hMLH1 and hMSH2 transcript expression in peripheral blood lymphocytes. Single-strand conformational polymorphism screening and PCR-direct sequencing revealed seven hMLH1 and five hMSH2 sequence variants in 14 unrelated HNPCC patients, including three definite pathogenic mutations, four amino acid substitutions of uncertain pathogenic significance, and five polymorphisms. Immunohistochemistry indicated the lack of either hMLH1 or hMSH2 protein expression in tumors from 13 patients, and the absence of both hMLH1 and hMSH2 immunostaining was observed in the tumor from one additional case. The lack of hMLH1 or hMSH2 immunostaining was associated with the presence of microsatellite instability in the corresponding tumor and was also observed in tumors from patients negative for pathogenic mutations by mutational screening. There was a marked unbalance in the allelic expression of either hMLH1 or hMSH2 transcripts in three of eight unrelated HNPCC patients that could be analyzed, although a less marked unbalance was detected in two additional patients. Tumors from patients with germ-line unbalance in hMLH1 or hMSH2 transcript expression did not express the corresponding mismatch repair protein and displayed microsatellite instability. Our results indicate that constitutional alterations in hMLH1 and hMSH2 transcript expression may represent genetic markers for HNPCC carrier status also in cases in which mutational analysis did not detect a definite pathogenic variant. This suggests that transcript deregulation may represent a relevant mode of germ-line inactivation for mismatch repair genes.
The gut epithelium represents a continuous developmental system in which cell proliferation in intestinal crypts is followed by the sequential expression of digestive and absorptive functions as enterocytes migrate out of crypts to the tips of intestinal villi. We have developed a mathematical model in the present work to mimic these sequential aspects of enterocyte differentiation. Using this model allows the characteristics of lactase expression to be ascribed to transcriptional control. In the case of a glucose transporter, however, it became necessary to assume an additional translational control that decreased exponentially as enterocytes migrated along villi. The suggestion that this type of modelling is useful in predicting which set of enterocytes is likely to use translation or transcription to control gene expression is also discussed.
Patients with stage I non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) are typically treated with surgical resection alone. However, about one-third of such patients develop disease recurrence and die within 5 years after complete resection. The ability to predict recurrence could represent an important contribution to treatment planning. This study evaluates the presence of telomerase activity in tumor cells as a predictor of disease recurrence and cancer-related death after operation for stage I NSCLC patients. The activity of the telomerase enzyme was investigated by telomeric repeat amplification protocol (TRAP) in tumors and matching normal lung tissue samples obtained from 107 consecutive operable patients with pathological stage I NSCLC. Telomerase activity was detected in 66 (62%) of the 107 tumors examined and in none of the corresponding adjacent noncancerous lung tissue samples. Correlation with pathological parameters showed that telomerase activity was associated with histopathological grade (P = 0.0135) but not with tumor size or histological type. Univariate survival curves, estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier, defined a significant association between telomerase activity and both disease-free survival (P = 0.0115) and overall survival (P = 0.0129). In multivariate analyses, performed by Cox's proportional hazards regression models, the presence of telomerase activity was the only strong predictor of disease-free survival (P = 0.0173) and overall survival (P = 0.0187). Our data indicate that telomerase activity can be an important prognostic factor that should be considered in future prospective trials of adjuvant therapy for high-risk stage I NSCLC patients.
1. The functional innervation of autonomic target tissues occurs early during development, at a time when both the nerves and post-synaptic target tissues are still differentiating. 2. Physiological responses appear soon after the arrival of the first fibres when uptake and release mechanisms within the nerves are already functional. Initial responses differ from those in the mature animal, both in the form and, frequently, in the subtypes of receptors involved. 3. Results of a number of studies suggest that the initial expression of neurotransmitter receptors during development is largely independent of neural influences. Changes recorded in neurotransmitter receptor expression during development appear to be similarly independent of neural influences. 4. While signal transduction pathways coupling adrenergic neurotransmitter receptors to effector responses appear to develop independently of the nerves, the efficient coupling of muscarinic receptors often requires the action of the neurotransmitter, acetylcholine. 5. During the period of synapse formation, the neural plexus continues to expand. While developing varicosities can release the neurotransmitter, the capacity for neurotransmitter retention appears to be restricted. Developmental changes in the neurotransmitters that produce functional responses, while well known in the sweat glands, may also be seen in more subtle forms in other target tissues. 6. Ultrastructural studies suggest that close physical associations between the membranes of the release sites of the developing nerves and the target cells may form early during development when physiological responses are still immature. These close associations could enable more specific reciprocal interactions between nerves and target cells involving known and novel growth factors, neuropeptides and cytokines important in shaping the mature synaptic characteristics.


Modulating monoamine activity as a therapeutic strategy continues to dominate antidepressant research, with a recent emphasis on agents with multiple targets, including combined serotonin/noradrenaline re-uptake inhibitors and numerous serotonin receptor ligands. An important new development has been the emergence of potential novel mechanisms of action, notably modulation of the activity of neuropeptides substance P and corticotrophin-releasing factor, and the intracellular messenger cyclic adenosine monophosphate. Efforts in this area have recently been rewarded by the demonstration of antidepressant efficacy of the substance P receptor antagonist MK-0869.

The mechanosensitive hair bundles of vertebrate hair cells exhibit a remarkable variety of shapes. For a given location in a sensory epithelium, however, the shape and polarity of a hair bundle are specified precisely. Recent findings, in particular with analogous experimental systems of actin polymerization, suggest a model of hair-bundle morphogenesis whereby different Rho guanosine triphosphatases (GTPases) regulate the initiation phase and the elongation phase of local actin-filament assembly at the hair cell's apical membrane.
The nervous system encodes information relating chemical stimuli to taste perception, beginning with transduction mechanisms at the receptor and ending in the representation of stimulus attributes by the activity of neurons in the brain. Recent studies have rekindled the long-standing debate about whether taste information is coded by the pattern of activity across afferent neurons or by specifically tuned 'labeled lines'. Taste neurons are broadly tuned to stimuli representing different qualities and are also responsive to stimulus intensity and often to touch and temperature. Their responsiveness is also modulated by a number of physiological factors. In addition to representing stimulus quality and intensity, activity in taste neurons must code information about the hedonic value of gustatory stimuli. These considerations suggest that individual gustatory neurons contribute to the coding of more than one stimulus parameter, making the response of any one cell meaningful only in the context of the activity of its neighbors.
'Ocular tracking' refers to visually driven, slow eye movements that stabilize moving images on the retina, thereby facilitating high acuity vision. Recent behavioral studies have shown that the primate brain produces several kinds of ocular tracking responses that operate precisely and consistently, with ultra-short latencies. Electrophysiological studies indicate that these tracking responses are mediated by a pathway that includes the medial superior temporal area of the cerebral cortex. Responses of neurons in this pathway are consistent with the short latencies and complex visual properties observed in behavioral studies of the tracking response.
Sex assignment in the newborn with ambiguous genitalia has been based on the adequacy of the phallus in the male, potential fertility in the female, and cosmetic appearance of the reconstructed genitalia. Recent data from both the neurosciences and from clinical research, however, casts doubt on the validity of such criteria for clinical decision making. Current knowledge suggests a need to shift away from the current clinical approach and to incorporate these new data into decisions based on a broader understanding of the etiology of gender identity. Recognition of the primacy of psychosocial and psychosexual developmental outcomes for children with ambiguous genitalia is lending direction to longitudinal outcomes research. New approaches to sex assignment have been suggested, and the paradigm for sex assignment in the newborn period is in transition.
Genetic and embryological experiments have established the Caenorhabditis elegans adult hermaphrodite gonad as a paradigm for studying the control of germline development and the role of soma-germline interactions. We describe ultrastructural features relating to essential germline events and the soma-germline interactions upon which they depend, as revealed by electron and fluorescence microscopy. Gap junctions were observed between oocytes and proximal gonadal sheath cells that contract to ovulate the oocyte. These gap junctions must be evanescent since individual oocytes lose contact with sheath cells when they are ovulated. In addition, proximal sheath cells are coupled to each other by gap junctions. Within proximal sheath cells, actin/myosin bundles are anchored to the plasma membrane at plaque-like structures we have termed hemi-adherens junctions, which in turn are closely associated with the gonadal basal lamina. Gap junctions and hemi-adherens junctions are likely to function in the coordinated series of contractions required to ovulate the mature oocyte. Proximal sheath cells are fenestrated with multiple small pores forming conduits from the gonadal basal lamina to the surface of the oocyte, passing through the sheath cell. In most instances where pores occur, extracellular yolk particles penetrate the gonadal basal lamina to directly touch the underlying oocytes. Membrane-bounded yolk granules were generally not found in the sheath cytoplasm by either electron microscopy or fluorescence microscopy. Electron microscopic immunocytochemistry was used to confirm and characterize the appearance of yolk protein in cytoplasmic organelles within the oocyte and in free particles in the pseudocoelom. The primary route of yolk transport apparently proceeds from the intestine into the pseudocoelom, then through sheath pores to the surface of the oocyte, where endocytosis occurs. Scanning electron microscopy was used to directly visualize the distal tip cell which extends tentacle-like processes that directly contact distal germ cells. These distal tip cell processes are likely to play a critical role in promoting germline mitosis. Scanning electron microscopy also revealed thin filopodia extending from the distal sheath cells. Distal sheath filopodia were also visualized using a green fluorescent protein reporter gene fusion and confocal microscopy. Distal sheath filopodia may function to stretch the sheath over the distal arm.
Chick collapsin-1/human semaphorin III/mouse semaphorin D is believed to guide the extension of specific axons by a repellent mechanism. Here we examine its role in the guidance of axons of the ganglion of Remak (Remak) in the developing chick intestine. Early in embryogenesis Remak axons extend parallel to, but do not enter, the intestine when collapsin-1 is expressed in the adjacent rectal wall. Remak axons later penetrate the peripheral portions of the rectal wall when collapsin-1 expression retreats from the outer muscle layer to the more internal submucosal and mucosal layers of the rectum. Extension of Remak neurites is repelled in vitro by rectum explants and also by 293T cells expressing collapsin-1. The rectal chemorepellent activity is blocked by anti-collapsin-1 antibodies. Our results suggest that collapsin-1 may help prevent Remak axons from projecting into the intestinal wall at early developmental times and later restricts Remak axon trajectories to the outer part of the intestinal muscle layer.
Over half of the neurons in Caenorhabditis elegans send axons to the nerve ring, a large neuropil in the head of the animal. Genetic screens in animals that express the green fluorescent protein in a subset of sensory neurons identified eight new sax genes that affect the morphology of nerve ring axons. sax-3/robo mutations disrupt axon guidance in the nerve ring, while sax-5, sax-9 and unc-44 disrupt both axon guidance and axon extension. Axon extension and guidance proceed normally in sax-1, sax-2, sax-6, sax-7 and sax-8 mutants, but these animals exhibit later defects in the maintenance of nerve ring structure. The functions of existing guidance genes in nerve ring development were also examined, revealing that SAX-3/Robo acts in parallel to the VAB-1/Eph receptor and the UNC-6/netrin, UNC-40/DCC guidance systems for ventral guidance of axons in the amphid commissure, a major route of axon entry into the nerve ring. In addition, SAX-3/Robo and the VAB-1/Eph receptor both function to prevent aberrant axon crossing at the ventral midline. Together, these genes define pathways required for axon growth, guidance and maintenance during nervous system development.
Ascidians are among the most distant chordate relatives of the vertebrates. However, ascidians share many features with vertebrates including a notochord and hollow dorsal nerve cord. A screen for N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea (ENU)-induced mutations affecting early development in the ascidian Ciona savignyi resulted in the isolation of a number of mutants including the complementing notochord mutants chongmague and chobi. In chongmague embryos the notochord fails to develop, and the notochord cells instead adopt a mesenchyme-like fate. The failure of notochord development in chongmague embryos results in a severe truncation of tail, although development of the tail muscles and caudal nerve tracts appears largely normal. Chobi embryos also have a truncation of the tail stemming from a disruption of the notochord. However, in chobi embryos the early development of the notochord appears normal and defects occur later as the notochord attempts to extend and direct elongation of the tail. We find in chobi tailbud embryos that the notochord is often bent, with cells clumped together, rather than extended as a column. These results provide new information on the function and development of the ascidian notochord. In addition, the results demonstrate how the unique features of ascidians can be used in genetic analysis of morphogenesis.
Prolyl endopeptidases (PEPs) are believed to be involved in the metabolism of neuropeptide hormones (reviewed in Mentlein [1988]). Genes encoding PEPs have been isolated from various species, but their expression patterns during development have not been determined. In this study, we isolated a gene encoding a predicted PEP from the fruitfly Drosophila melanogaster. The gene encodes a predicted 756-amino acid protein having extensive sequence similarity to human PEP. We demonstrated that the Drosophila gene (DPEP) is expressed in a spatially restricted pattern in imaginal discs and the larval brain. Our results suggest a role for DPEP in the regional specification of larval tissues. They also provide a starting point for a genetic analysis of the function of this enzyme during development.
This study investigated expression of prolactin receptor (PRL-R) mRNA in the preoptic area in midlactating rats compared with diestrous rats. Tissues from specific nuclei were micropunched from 300-microm thick rat brain sections with 300- or 500-microm diameter needles. After total RNA was extracted, the two forms of PRL-R mRNA were evaluated by reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction and Southern hybridization. The results showed that levels of long-form PRL-R mRNA in the ventrolateral preoptic nucleus and lateroanterior nucleus in lactating rats were significantly higher (p &lt; 0.05) than in diestrous rats. The ventromedial and medial preoptic nuclei in lactating rats also expressed moderately high levels of long-form mRNA when compared with (p = 0.0547) diestrous rats. The ventromedial and ventrolateral preoptic nuclei, and ventrolateral hypothalamic nucleus in lactating rats expressed significantly higher levels of short-form mRNA than in diestrous rats. The increased expression of both forms of PRL-R mRNA helps explain numerous effects of PRL on brain functions during lactation.
POU homeodomain genes are transcriptional regulators that control development of the mammalian forebrain. Although they are mostly active during embryonic life, some of them remain expressed in the postnatal hypothalamus, suggesting their involvement in regulating differentiated functions of the neuroendocrine brain. We show here that Oct-2, a POU domain gene originally described in cells of the immune system, is one of the controlling components of the cell-cell signaling process underlying the hypothalamic regulation of female puberty. Lesions of the anterior hypothalamus cause sexual precocity and recapitulate some of the events leading to the normal initiation of puberty. Prominent among these events is an increased astrocytic expression of the gene encoding transforming growth factor-alpha (TGF alpha), a tropic polypeptide involved in the stimulatory control of LHRH secretion. The present study shows that such lesions result in the rapid and selective increase in Oct-2 transcripts in TGF alpha-containing astrocytes surrounding the lesion site. In both lesion-induced and normal puberty, there is a preferential increase in hypothalamic expression of the Oct-2a and Oct-2c alternatively spliced messenger RNA forms of the Oct-2 gene, with an increase in 2a messenger RNA levels preceding that in 2c and antedating the peripubertal activation of gonadal steroid secretion. Both Oct-2a and 2c trans-activate the TGF alpha gene via recognition motifs contained in the TGF alpha gene promoter. Inhibition of Oct-2 synthesis reduces TGF alpha expression in astroglial cells and delays the initiation of puberty. These results suggest that the Oct-2 gene is one of the upstream components of the glia to neuron signaling process that controls the onset of female puberty in mammals.
The neurotropin-inducible gene vgf is expressed in neuronal and endocrine tissues. It encodes a secretory protein that is proteolytically processed in neuronal cells to low molecular mass polypeptides. In the present report, we show that vgf is expressed in different insulinoma cell lines and in normal rat pancreatic islets. In the insulinoma-derived beta-cell line INS-1, vgf messenger RNA was transcriptionally up-regulated by increased levels ofintracellular cAMP, but not by the addition of glucose (20 mM) or phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (100 nM). Furthermore, nerve growth factor failed to stimulate vgf gene expression. In INS-1 cells, the VGF protein was shown to be processed in a post endoplasmic reticulum compartment to produce a peptide profile similar to that seen in neurons. The release of such VGF peptides occurred at a low rate in the absence of secretory stimuli (&lt;2%/h). A 3-fold increase in the rate of release was seen after the addition of glucose (15 mM), a 4-fold increase was seen after (Bu)2cAMP (1 mM), and a 6-fold increase was seen after phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (100 nM). These results indicated that insulin-containing cells produce VGF-derived peptides that are released via a regulated pathway in response to insulin secretagogues.
Testosterone is the principal gonadal hormone responsible for the masculinization of the rat nervous system. Sex differences in both the ligand and receptor availability may play a role in the process of sexual differentiation. In some brain regions, males express more androgen receptor (AR) messenger RNA (mRNA) than females by postnatal day (PND) 10. Gonadectomy on the day of birth (PND-0) eliminated the sex differences in AR mRNA expression at PND-10, and exogenous testosterone replacement restored this sex difference. Because testosterone can be converted to both androgenic and estrogenic metabolites in the brain, the present experiments were performed to determine whether androgenic or estrogenic metabolites of testosterone are responsible for region-specific regulation of AR mRNA content in the developing rat forebrain. We used a 35S-labeled riboprobe and in situ hybridization to assess relative steady-state levels of AR mRNA in animals killed on PND-10. In the principal portion of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BSTpr) and medial preoptic area (MPO), males gonadectomized on PND-0 and treated daily with dihydrotestosterone propionate (DHTP), a nonaromatizable androgen, had low levels of AR mRNA that were not significantly different from AR mRNA levels in intact females. In contrast, males gonadectomized on PND-0 and treated daily with diethylstilbestrol (DES), a synthetic estrogen, maintained high, male-typical levels of AR mRNA in the BSTpr and the MPO. AR mRNA content in the VMH was not sexually differentiated in PND-10 rats and was unaffected by gonadectomy or hormone replacement. To further assess whether AR mRNA was autologously regulated, neonatal male rats were treated with the androgen receptor antagonist, flutamide. Flutamide at a dose of either 40 microg/day or 300 microg/day had no effect on AR mRNA expression in any area examined. Thus, AR mRNA is up-regulated by estrogen but is not regulated by androgen during the early postnatal period.

Temporal lobe gliosis and neuronal loss are pathological hallmarks of complex partial seizures. However, the specificity of glial cell changes is not clear. To assess this we studied surgically resected temporal lobes containing either medial temporal sclerosis (MTS) or temporal lobe epilepsy with tumour (TLET) and compared them with idiopathic epilepsy cases and normal controls. We quantitatively assessed glial cell density and mean nuclear volume in the white matter of various temporal gyri and the deep white matter. There was an increase in mean glial cell nuclear volume in MTS and TLET cases in the white matter of superior temporal gyrus, parahippocampal gyrus and deep white matter but not in the white matter of the middle temporal gyrus. In contrast, the densities of glial cells immunopositive for glial fibrillary acidic protein in the MTS and TLET groups were reduced in all white matter regions when compared with the controls. These changes may indicate that glial cells in the white matter have an active role to play in epilepsy pathogenesis.
Previous electrophysiological studies have demonstrated that in a subset of hippocampal slices from tissue resected from patients with mesial temporal lobe epilepsy, perforant path stimulation can elicit prolonged negative field-potential shifts in the dentate granule cell layer (Masukawa et al., 1989. Brain Res. 493, 168-174; Isokawa and Fried, 1996. Neuroscience 72, 31-37). In this investigation, hippocampal slices were prepared from rats: (1) 2-4 days following kainate treatment, when little or no reorganization of the mossy fibers would be present and (2) 3-13 months after kainate treatment, when mossy fiber reorganization would have occurred. In saline-treated controls, perforant path stimulation typically evoked a single population spike. In contrast, perforant path stimulation could evoke 3-12 population spikes in nearly all slices from kainate-injected rats 2-4 days and 3-13 months after treatment. The majority of slices from kainate-injected rats 3-13 months after treatment had qualitatively similar responses to perforant path stimulation as that observed in slices from kainate-injected rats 2-4 days after treatment. However, in 17% of the slices from kainate-treated rats 3-13 months after treatment (29% of rats), the multiple population spikes were followed by a prolonged negative field-potential shift (duration: 140 ms-1.5 s) with variable superimposed population spike activity. This type of epileptiform activity was only observed in slices with robust Timm's staining in the inner molecular layer and similar responses could also be evoked in these slices with hilar stimulation. Furthermore, pharmacological depression of inhibition by adding the GABA(A) receptor antagonist bicuculline unmasked hilar-evoked prolonged negative field-potential shifts in most slices from kainate-treated rats 3-13 months following treatment, and these slices had robust Timm's staining in the inner molecular layer. Such events were not observed in slices from saline-treated controls or kainate-injected rats 2-4 days after treatment. In conclusion, the prolonged negative field-potential shifts evoked to perforant path stimulation in normal ACSF were associated with mossy fiber reorganization, but the relative contribution of altered inhibition, increased synaptic excitation, or even non-synaptic mechanisms is unknown.
The present study has used two different approaches for labelling progenitor cells at the optic vesicle stage in order to examine patterns of clonal expansion and cellular dispersion within the developing retina. X-inactivation transgenic mice and chimeric mice expressing the lacZ reporter transgene were examined during development and in adulthood to study the radial and tangential dispersion of proliferating neuroepithelial cells and postmitotic retinal cells of known identities. Chimeric retinas were used to measure tangential dispersion distances, while transgenic retinas were used to assess the frequency of tangential dispersion for individual populations of retinal neurons. Tangential dispersion is shown to be a universal feature of particular retinal cell types, being contrasted with the strictly radial dispersion of other cells. Tangential dispersion is a relatively short-distance phenomenon, with distinct dispersion distances characteristic for cone, horizontal, amacrine and ganglion cells. Embryonic and postnatal retinas show that tangential dispersion occurs at different times for these distinct cell types, associated with their times of differentiation rather than their neurogenetic periods. These developmental results rule out the possibility that tangential dispersion is due to a passive displacement produced by the proliferation of later-born cells, or to the lateral dispersion of a dividing sibling; rather, they are consistent with the hypothesis that tangential dispersion plays a role in the establishment of the orderly spatial distribution of retinal mosaics.
The spinal cord motor nuclei have been the focus of a number of investigations exploring neurodegenerative mechanisms, e.g. excitotoxicity mediated by glutamate and oxidative stress. Here, high-resolution quantitative post-embedding immunocytochemistry with antibodies to oxidized and reduced glutathione (GSH), an ubiquitously expressed scavenger of free radicals, was used to examine if GSH synthesis is upregulated pre- and/or postsynaptically in the lumbar motor nuclei of aged (30 month old) rats. The purpose was, moreover, to resolve the extent of correlation between GSH expression, transmitter identity and degenerative changes. Tissue from young adult rats was co-processed for comparison. The quantitative immunogold analysis revealed an increase in GSH-immunoreactivity in both pre- and postsynaptic compartments in the lumbar motor nuclei of aged rats. Presynaptically, the enrichment of GSH-immunoreactivity was seen in axonal boutons of normal appearance, and was furthermore restricted to the extra-mitochondrial compartment. Postsynaptically, the aged rats disclosed, in comparison with young adults, higher values for GSH-immunoreactivity both over mitochondria (+49%) and cytoplasmic matrix (+130%). When analysing the transmitter identity of the bouton profiles, it turned out that close to 50% of all glutamate-immunoreactive boutons in the aged rats contained very high levels (&gt; 40 gold particles/microm2) of GSH-immunoreactivity. Strong GSH-immunoreactivity was also a typical feature of a subset of axon terminal- and axon fibre-like profiles in the aged rat that showed signs of axon dystrophy and degeneration. When comparing with normally appearing axon fibre profiles located in close vicinity, the population of aberrant axons had higher average levels of glutamate-immunoreactivity (+93%), and lower average levels of glycine-immunoreactivity (-88%). No difference was seen regarding the levels of GABA. The results of this study lend support to the idea that aging in the spinal cord motor nuclei is associated with an increased oxidative stress and indicate that different transmitter systems are differentially affected by the degenerative process.
Opioid effects on cell division in the embryonic cerebral cortex were examined using two experimental approaches: (i) the presence of opioid receptors in the embryonic day 16 mouse neocortex was tested using immunohistochemical techniques; (ii) the values of the indices of [3H]thymidine pulse labelled cells and mitotic indices were estimated in the ventricular zone of the embryonic day 16 mouse neocortex 2.5, 4.5 and 8.5 h after administration to pregnant females of selected opioid receptor agonists or the opioid antagonist naloxone. The immunohistochemical study demonstrated that distinct subpopulations of the ventricular zone cells express mu, delta or kappa opioid receptors. Acute exposure of mouse embryos to mu, delta and kappa opioid receptor agonists or naloxone differentially affects the indices of [3H] thymidine pulse labelled cells and mitotic indices indicating changes in the cell cycle composition. Treatment with the mu opioid receptor agonist D-Ala2-MePhe4, Gly-ol5-enkephalin (DAGO), or the partially selective kappa opioid receptor agonist bremazocine, increased the [3H]thymidine labelling and mitotic indices. In contrast, the delta receptor agonist (D-Ser8)-leucine enkephalin-Thr (DSLET) produced a decrease in the labelled cell indices and mitotic indices. Naloxone provided a biphasic effect: a decrease in the values of labelled cell indices 2.5 h after naloxone administration, followed by an increase in the values of the indices at 4.5 and 8.5 h. These results suggest that the endogenous embryonic/maternal opioid systems are involved in the regulation of cell division in the ventricular zone of the late embryonic cortex.
Immediate postlesion reorganization of the somatosensory cortical representation was examined in adult rats. Response properties of small clusters of neurons were recorded in the area of the primary somatosensory cortex (SI) devoted to the contralateral forepaw representation. Electrophysiological maps were elaborated on the basis of the sensory 'submodality' (cutaneous or noncutaneous) and the location of the peripheral receptive fields (RFs) of layer IV neurons. Recordings were made prior to, and from 1 to 12 h after, induction of a focal neurovascular lesion to the SI cortex that initially destroyed a part (8.5%) of the cutaneous representation. Moreover, the influence of an anti-ischaemic substance (piracetam) on lesion-induced changes was analysed. The main observations were: (i) a gradual outward expansion of the area of the functional lesion, which was smaller in the piracetam-treated (PT) rats than in the control, placebo-treated (PL) rats; (ii) a substantial remodelling of the spared representational zones, both in cortical sectors adjoining the site of injury and those remote from the site; (iii) a significant postlesion increase in the size of cutaneous RFs in the PT rats, but not in the PL rats; (iv) a better preservation of RF submodality and topographic organization in the PT maps than in the PL maps; and (v) a decrease in neuronal responsiveness to cutaneous stimulation which was less pronounced in the PT than in the PL rats. Our results can be ascribed to a rapid change in the balance of excitatory and inhibitory connections which leads to unmasking of subthreshold inputs converging onto cortical neurons. Our findings also indicate that acute piracetam treatment exerts a protective function on the physiological response properties of cortical neurons after focal injury.
We have examined input-output patterns in the corticospinal system after incomplete spinal cord injury. The amplitude of the motor evoked potential (MEP) to transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) was used to study the patterns of recruitment, with increasing stimulus intensity, and facilitation, with increasing voluntary contraction, in thenar muscles of 12 patients with incomplete spinal cord injuries and 13 control subjects. The patients had all suffered spinal cord injury at a segmental level rostral to C8 and T1, the segments supplying innervation of thenar muscles. The patients showed a less pronounced increase in MEP amplitude with increasing strength of TMS compared with the controls. Specifically, at a stimulus strength of 120% threshold and above, the patients showed significantly smaller MEPs relative to the maximum ulnar nerve M-wave response than the controls. The patients also showed a less steep pattern of facilitation with voluntary drive. The MEP continued to increase up to 50% maximum voluntary contraction (MVC) whereas the controls reached a plateau around 10% MVC. The results indicate that the patients show modified corticospinal recruitment and facilitation of the motoneurone pool. We speculate that the function of the adapted corticospinal system after spinal cord injury might be to regulate and modulate drive to motoneurones originating from segmental and other descending inputs. We discuss how such a modified corticospinal system might be of functional benefit to the patients.
In order to study prehension in a reproducible manner, we trained monkeys to perform a task in which rectangular, spherical, and cylindrical objects were grasped, lifted, held, and lowered in response to visual cues. The animal's hand movements were monitored using digital video, together with simultaneously recorded spike trains of neurons in primary somatosensory cortex (S-I) and posterior parietal cortex (PPC). Statistically significant task-related modulation of activity occurred in 78% of neurons tested in the hand area; twice as many cells were facilitated during object acquisition as were depressed. Cortical neurons receiving inputs from tactile receptors in glabrous skin of the fingers and palm, hairy skin of the hand dorsum, or deep receptors in muscles and joints of the hand modulated their firing rates during prehension in consistent and reproducible patterns. Spike trains of individual neurons differed in duration and amplitude of firing, the particular hand behavior(s) monitored, and their sensitivity to the shape of the grasped object. Neurons were classified by statistical analysis into groups whose spike trains were tuned to single task stages, spanned two successive stages, or were multiaction. The classes were not uniformly distributed in specific cytoarchitectonic fields, nor among particular somatosensory modalities. Sequential deformation of parts of the hand as the task progressed was reflected in successive responses of different members of this population. The earliest activity occurred in PPC, where 28% of neurons increased firing prior to hand contact with objects; such neurons may participate in anticipatory motor control programs. Activity shifted rostrally to S-I as the hand contacted the object and manipulated it. The shape of the grasped object had the strongest influence on PPC cells. The results suggest that parietal neurons monitor hand actions during prehension, as well as the physical properties of the grasped object, by shifting activity between populations responsive to hand shaping, grasping, and manipulatory behaviors.
The role of transmethylation mechanisms in the etiology of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is hitherto unexplored. The activity of L-methionine S-adenosyltransferase (MAT), a regulatory enzyme of S-adenosylmethionine biosynthesis, was investigated in erythrocytes of 21 patients with ALS, spinal cord specimens of 7 ALS patients, and matched controls. In ALS patients the activity of MAT in erythrocytes was sex-dependent. In comparison with controls, the male group presented a 33% higher V(max) (P &lt; 0.05) and a 41% decrease in the affinity of MAT for methionine (K(m), P &lt; 0.05). The type of ALS onset (limb or bulbar), age, or duration of the disease did not influence erythrocyte MAT activity. In the spinal cord, the activity of MAT was homogeneously distributed through dorsal horn, ventral horn, and white matter. Comparisons between data from controls and ALS patients and analysis of sex effect showed no significant differences. The kinetic difference of erythrocyte MAT in the male group of ALS patients might be interesting to explore since it is well known that there is a male predominance of 1.5 to 2. 5:1 in ALS.
Perisynaptic Schwann cells (PSCs) envelop axonal terminals and are physiologically distinct from the nearby myelinating Schwann cells (MSCs), which surround the same innervating motor axons. PSCs have special functions at the neuromuscular synapse, where they detect and can modulate neurotransmitter release. Although PSCs are similar to non-myelinating Schwann cells in that they do not form multiple myelin wrappings around nerve terminals, they do wrap around single nerve terminals. These differences, as well as others, lead us to question whether PSCs are truly of Schwann cell origin. We thus characterized the expression of molecules, classically associated with myelin and Schwann cells, in PSCs at the frog neuromuscular junction. We wondered whether PSCs express the Schwann cell marker protein zero (P(0)) and whether their lack of myelination was related to an absence of myelin-associated glycoprotein (MAG), a protein found in myelinating cells that is considered important in myelination. Instead, we found that PSCs express both P(0) and MAG, and other myelinating glial markers such as galactocerebroside and 2',3'-cyclic nucleotide 3'-phosphodiesterase. In denervated preparations, P(0) and MAG expression persisted, including at newly formed PSC extensions. Because PSCs do not myelinate, it is clear that expression of these proteins alone is not sufficient for myelin formation. It is possible that factors present at synapses may prevent myelination, while P(0) and MAG may mediate adhesion between nerve terminals and the surrounding PSCs. The results indicate that PSCs are of Schwann cell origin.

Modulations of amplitude and frequency are common features of natural sounds, and are prominent in behaviorally important communication sounds. The mammalian auditory cortex is known to contain representations of these important stimulus parameters. This study describes the distributed representations of tone frequency and modulation rate in the rat primary auditory cortex (A1). Detailed maps of auditory cortex responses to single tones and tone trains were constructed from recordings from 50-60 microelectrode penetrations introduced into each hemisphere. Recorded data demonstrated that the cortex uses a distributed coding strategy to represent both spectral and temporal information in the rat, as in other species. Just as spectral information is encoded in the firing patterns of neurons tuned to different frequencies, temporal information appears to be encoded using a set of filters covering a range of behaviorally important repetition rates. Although the average A1 repetition rate transfer function (RRTF) was low-pass with a sharp drop-off in evoked spikes per tone above 9 pulses per second (pps), individual RRTFs exhibited significant structure between 4 and 10 pps, including substantial facilitation or depression to tones presented at specific rates. No organized topography of these temporal filters could be determined.
At least 50 different mutations in the presenilin 1 gene have been shown to cause early onset familial Alzheimer's disease. Although presenilin 1 has an obvious role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease, its function is still unknown. In the present study, the occurrence and distribution of presenilin 1 mRNA was examined in rat peripheral organs as well as in the brain by in situ hybridization histochemistry, using a radiolabelled oligonucleotide probe. In comparison to the brain, a high presenilin 1 mRNA expression was found in the testis, kidney, spleen, adrenal gland and thymus. It was also observed in skeletal muscle, liver, small intestine and lung, whereas no presenilin 1 could be detected in the heart, spinal cord and pancreas. Since presenilin 1 mRNA was found to be abundant in peripheral tissues which apparently are not affected in Alzheimer's disease, additional functions of presenilin 1 are suggested, unrelated to its role in the pathological processes of the disease.
This meeting, which for the first time included BrainPET, was held in close cooperation with the International Society for Cerebral Blood Flow and Metabolism and was presided over by Dr Olaf B Paulson (Neuroscience Center, Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen, Denmark). It attracted approximately 750 registered participants from over 30 countries, with a particularly strong Japanese presence. More than 100 oral presentations were held and some 700 posters displayed.
Interleukin-6 (IL-6) is a multifunctional cytokine with a broad range of activities and can affect a variety of target cells or systems in multiple ways. However, there is currently no consensus on how IL-6 directly affects the peripheral nervous tissue. We performed histopathological and immunohistochemical analyses to investigate the direct effects of recombinant rat IL-6 (rrIL-6) following its intraneural injection into the sciatic nerve of adult Lewis rats. One day after injection, a large number of macrophages, major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II positive cells, and CD4+ and CD8+ T cells appeared within the perineurium and endoneurium. From day 4 to day 7 after injection, we observed a gradual increase of inflammation and demyelination. On day 7, demyelination affected more than 80% of nerve fibres. In contrast, in the sterile phosphate-buffered saline (PBS)-injected control group, lower inflammation and fewer demyelinating nerve fibres were observed on days 4 and 7. Thus, intraneural injection of rrIL-6 into the sciatic nerve induces high inflammation and severe demyelination. This study improves our understanding of the effector mechanisms underlying inflammation and demyelination and identifies IL-6 as an essential mediator of inflammation and demyelination in the peripheral nervous system after local administration.

Sexual dysfunction is common in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) since brain dopaminergic mechanisms are involved in the regulation of sexual behavior. Activation of dopamine D2 receptor sites, with resultant release of oxytocin from the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of the hypothalamus, induces sexual arousal and erectile responses in experimental animals and humans. In Parkinsonian patients subcutaneous administration of apomorphine, a dopamine D2 receptor agonist, induces sexual arousal and penile erections. It has been suggested that the therapeutic efficacy of transcranial administration of AC pulsed electromagnetic fields (EMFs) in the picotesla flux density in PD involves the activation of dopamine D2 receptor sites which are the principal site of action of dopaminergic pharmacotherapy in PD. Here, 1 report 2 elderly male PD patients who experienced sexual dysfunction which was recalcitrant to treatment with anti Parkinsonian agents including selegiline, levodopa and tolcapone. However, brief transcranial administrations of AC pulsed EMFs in the picotesla flux density induced in these patients sexual arousal and spontaneous nocturnal erections. These findings support the notion that central activation of dopamine D2 receptor sites is associated with the therapeutic efficacy of AC pulsed EMFs in PD. In addition, since the right hemisphere is dominant for sexual activity, partly because of a dopaminergic bias of this hemisphere, these findings suggest that right hemispheric activation in response to administration of AC pulsed EMFs was associated in these patient with improved sexual functions.









Novel evidence is reported showing changes in the mismatch negativity (MMN) event-related potential (ERP) that followed a different time course in frontal and sub-temporal (mastoid) electrodes. MMN recorded in frontal electrode sites, assumed to originate predominantly in the superior temporal gyrus, showed amplitude enhancement from the first to the second recording block. In contrast, the amplitude of the sub-temporal, mastoid component (termed mismatch positivity, MMP) diminished. In addition to these changes in the MMN elicited by tone duration deviants, there were also significant changes in the ERP to the standard stimulus. The positivity in the standard ERP between 50 and 150 ms increased in bilateral mastoid electrodes but showed no reliable change in frontal electrodes. This suggests that more than one generator underpins the two mismatch components, and that the sub-temporal mismatch component does not only represent a polarity reversal of the main MMN component in the superior temporal gyrus.
The effects of three carbohydrate electrolyte solutions (CES) containing different amounts of caffeine on cognitive function and the combined effects of these drinks and exercise on cognitive functions were investigated in a double-blind, cross-over study. On five separate occasions, fifteen endurance trained male athletes (23.3 years) received water placebo, CES placebo (68.8 g/l), and three CES drinks containing low, medium and high dosages of caffeine (150, 225 and 320 mg/l). Each occasion, 8 ml/kg of the drink was consumed before -- and 6 ml/kg of the drink was consumed during an all-out 1 hour time trial on a bicycle ergometer. Cognitive (attentional, psychomotor, and memory) tests were carried out immediately before and immediately after exercise. Before exercise, long term memory was improved by CES plus low dose caffeine compared to both placebos. Immediately after exercise, all cognitive functions were improved by CES plus low- and medium-dose caffeine compared to placebo. These results comprise the first practical demonstration of the cognition improving effects of low amounts of caffeine in CES after strenuous physical exercise.
Superficial siderosis of the central nervous system is a rare condition characterized by deposition of haemosiderin in the leptomeninges and in the subpial layers of the brain and spinal cord. With the widespread use of magnetic resonance imaging, an increasing number of cases of superficial siderosis are being discovered, secondary forms being more frequent than idiopathic ones. We report a 78-year-old man in oral anticoagulant therapy, who presented neurosensory hearing loss, gait ataxia and spastic paraparesis. Magnetic resonance imaging suggested the diagnosis of superficial siderosis of the central nervous system, without an evident bleeding source.

Temporal integration for pure tones was examined in two rhesus macaques. The subjects were required to respond to a brief sound (a tone burst) that deviated from a previous series of sounds (noise bursts) on a trial (a deviant-stimulus detection paradigm). Psychometric functions and thresholds were determined from correct detections (hit proportions) alone, and from d' scores. Two models describing the decline in threshold as a function of stimulus duration, one a power function the other an exponential, were tested against the data. When the decline (slope) in threshold per log stimulus duration is used as a rate measure, our results yield a lower estimate of temporal integration rate in rhesus than did a previous study [Clack, J. Acoust. Soc. Am. 40, 1140-1146 (1966)]. Both studies, however, gave slope estimates of integration rate that were higher than in most other species. Comparison of the models using data from several species, revealed that the exponential, but not the power model, could account for two sources of variation in threshold measurement. One source is due to the range across threshold as a function of duration (the linear rate component), and is described by the constant of proportionality Ik in the model. The other source of variation arises from the rate of decline within this range (the nonlinear rate component), and is described by the time constant tau. In terms of this model, differences in rate estimates between Clack's study and ours (and between rhesus and other species) are primarily due to the linear component. The nonlinear rate component was about equal for our study and Clack's (tau = approximately 150 ms): a time constant that is just slightly larger (indicating a rate of temporal integration slightly slower) than for most other species examined.
Sympathetic nerve-mediated vasoconstriction in iris arterioles of mature rats occurs via the activation of alpha(1B)-adrenoceptors alone, while in immature rat iris arterioles, vasoconstriction occurs via activation of both alpha1- and alpha2-adrenoceptors. In mature rats the vast majority of sympathetic varicosities form close neuroeffector junctions. Serial section electron microscopy of 14 d iris arterioles has been used to determine whether restriction in physiological receptor types with age may result from the establishment of these close neuroeffector junctions. Ninety varicosities which lay within 4 microm of arteriolar smooth muscle were followed for their entire length. Varicosities rarely contained dense cored vesicles even after treatment with 5-hydroxydopamine. 47 % of varicosities formed close associations with muscle cells and 88 % formed close associations with muscle cells or melanocytes. Varicosities in bundles were as likely as single varicosities to form close associations with vascular smooth muscle cells, although the distribution of synaptic vesicles in single varicosities did not show the asymmetric accumulation towards the smooth muscle cells seen in the varicosities in bundles which were frequently clustered together. We conclude that restriction of physiological receptor types during development does not appear to correlate with the establishment of close neuroeffector junctions, although changes in presynaptic structures may contribute to the refinement of postsynaptic responses.
Soluble guanylyl cyclase (GC) is a heme-containing protein that is a predominant target of nitric oxide (NO). This study examined whether the reductant, ascorbate (ASC), the oxidant, dehydroascorbate (DHAA), or other redox agents modulated the sensitivity of isolated rat coronary arteries to NO-induced vasodilations. Based on NO measurements with a NO-sensitive electrode, NO dilated the arteries with a pEC50 of 8.24 +/- 0.05. The potency of NO was significantly enhanced in the presence of ASC (pEC50 = 8.70 +/- 0.02) but was diminished in the presence of DHAA (pEC50 = 7.91 +/- 0.15). The potency of NO was not affected by other redox agents including dithiothreitol, beta-mercaptoethanol, diamide, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, ferricyanide, or ferrocyanide. Experiments involving the cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) analog, 8-Br-cGMP, and the phosphodiesterase inhibitor, isobutyl-methylxanthine, indicated that neither ASC nor DHAA has an effect on the degradation or potency of cGMP. ASC and DHAA also failed to affect vasodilations induced by diltiazem or forskolin. However, ASC and DHAA affected the potency of NO in human mesenteric arteries. The results are consistent with other evidence that ASC and DHAA affect the redox state of GC, and through this modulate arterial sensitivity to NO. This suggests that the regulation of the redox state of GC may be an additional site of modulation of the NO/cGMP pathway.
The sympathetic nervous system regulates lipolysis. There are regional differences in the sensitivity of lipolysis to adrenergic regulation. Little is known about regional sympathetic activity in response to eating in humans. We studied the effect of feeding on systemic and local sympathetic nervous system activity and lipolysis in lean healthy subjects (three women and five men; age, 27.0+/-2.0; body mass index, 23.4+/-1.2 kg/m(-2)) using isotope dilution methodology and arterio-venous sampling. Feeding increased arterial norepinephrine (NE) concentration (mean premeal, 0.96+/-0.12 nmol/L x L; mean postmeal, 1.28+/-0.14 nmol/L x L; P &lt; 0.02) and total body NE spillover (mean premeal, 2.11+/-0.30 nmol/min x L; mean postmeal, 2.76+/-0.31 nmol/min x L; P &lt; 0.02), whereas the arterial epinephrine concentration decreased (mean premeal, 289+/-61 pmol/L; mean postmeal, 170+/-5 pmol/L; P &lt; 0.02). Palmitate concentration and total body systemic rate of appearance of palmitate declined postprandially (mean premeal, 117 +/- 15 micromol/min; mean postmeal, 38+/-4 micromol/min; P &lt; 0.01). NE spillover increased by the same proportion in both forearm and adipose tissue [in forearm, mean premeal and postmeal, 1.02+/-0.11 and 2.41+/-0.44. nmol/100 mL x min, respectively (P &lt; 0.02); in adipose tissue, mean premeal and postmeal, 0.41+/-0.12 and 0.73+/-0.17 nmol/100 g x min, respectively (P &lt; 0.02)]. The results show that a meal caused differential changes in systemic sympatho-adrenal activity and an increase in sympathetic activity in adipose tissue postprandially, However, this increase in postprandial sympathetic activity was not enough to overcome the inhibition of lipolysis by insulin.
Atypical antipsychotic agents seem to be effective treatments for bipolar disorder, especially as adjunctive treatments. They may be a safer and more effective alternative to the common practice of maintenance adjunctive treatment with traditional antipsychotic agents in patients with bipolar disorder. However, currently available research studies are limited methodologically mainly to open-label, uncontrolled designs. Further research is required before the definitive efficacy of these agents in bipolar disorder is established. If randomized or double-blind data support the open-label data reviewed here, atypical antipsychotic agents may possess an important role in the adjunctive treatment of bipolar disorder.
There is a 2- to 3-fold increase in luteinizing hormone-beta (LHbeta) or follicle-stimulating hormone-beta (FSHbeta) antigen-bearing gonadotropes during diestrus in preparation for the peak LH or FSH secretory activity. This coincides with an increase in cells bearing LHbeta or FSHbeta mRNA. Similarly, there is a 3- to 4-fold increase in the percentage of cells that bind GnRH. In 1994, we reported that this augmentation in gonadotropes may come partially from subsets of somatotropes that transitionally express LHbeta or FSHbeta mRNA and GnRH-binding sites. The next phase of the study focused on questions relating to the somatotropes themselves. Do these putative somatogonadotropes retain a somatotrope phenotype? As a part of ongoing studies that address this question, a biotinylated analog of GHRH was produced, separated by HPLC and characterized for its ability to elicit the release of GH as well as bind to pituitary target cells. The biotinylated analog (Bio-GHRH) was detected cytochemically by the avidin-peroxidase complex technique. It could be displaced by competition with 100-1000 nM GHRH but not corticotropin-releasing hormone or GnRH. In cells from male rats exposed to 1 nM Bio-GHRH, 28+/-6% (mean+/-s.d) of pituitary cells exhibited label for Bio-GHRH (compared with 0.8+/-0.6% in the controls). There were no differences in percentages of GHRH target cells in populations from proestrous (28+/-5%) and estrous (25+/-5%) rats. Maximal percentages of labeled cells were seen following addition of 1 nM analog for 10 min. In dual-labeled fields, GHRH target cells contained all major pituitary hormones, but their expression of ACTH and TRH was very low (less than 3% of the pituitary cell population) and the expression of prolactin (PRL) and gonadotropins varied with the sex and stage of the animal. In all experimental groups, 78-80% of Bio-GHRH-reactive cells contained GH (80-91% of GH cells). In male rats, 33+/-6% of GHRH target cells contained PRL (37+/-9% of PRL cells) and less than 20% of these GHRH-receptive cells contained gonadotropins (23+/-1% of LH and 31+/-9% of FSH cells). In contrast, expression of PRL and gonadotropins was found in over half of the GHRH target cells from proestrous female rats (55+/-10% contained PRL; 56+/-8% contained FSHbeta; and 66+/-1% contained LHbeta). This reflected GHRH binding by 71+/-2% PRL cells, 85+/-5% of LH cells and 83+/-9% of FSH cells. In estrous female rats, the hormonal storage patterns in GHRH target cells were similar to those in the male rat. Because the overall percentages of cells with Bio-GHRH or GH label do not vary among the three groups, the differences seen in the proestrous group reflect internal changes within a single group of somatotropes that retain their GHRH receptor phenotype. Hence, these data correlate with earlier findings that showed that somatotropes may be converted to transitional gonadotropes just before proestrus secretory activity. The LH and FSH antigen content of the GHRH target cells from proestrous rats demonstrates that the LHbeta and FSHbeta mRNAs are indeed translated. Furthermore, the increased expression of PRL antigens by these cells signifies that these convertible somatotropes may also be somatomammotropes.
The experimental advance made by Camillo Golgi's 'black reaction' has been universally recognized as the start of the modern revolution in the study of the nervous system. By contrast, his concepts of nervous organization, particularly his support for the idea of a 'nervous reticulum', have been universally rejected. The premise of the present paper is that ideas of a biologist of this stature deserve re-examination. Golgi's arguments for considering the holistic function of the brain seem to come from his experience as a physician, and presage the views of the gestaltists and, more recently, the conceptual underpinnings of artificial neural networks. His interest in the possible nutritional roles of neuronal dendrites can be seen to anticipate current investigations, at the cellular level, of the metabolic basis of brain imaging. These and other currents in Golgi's thought deserve further study.
William James was the first to suggest that propagation of impulses in the nervous system proceeds in one direction, from sensory to motor neurons, but not viceversa. His law of forward direction preceded the formulation of the law of dynamic polarization of van Gehuchten and Cajal, which assumed that nerve impulses are conducted cellulipetally along dendrites and cellulifugally along axons, based on different anatomo-functional properties of these neuronal components. Golgi did not accept the law of dynamic polarization because he believed that dendrites are involved in the nutrition of the neuron rather than in impulse propagation, and that impulses can travel in any direction in the axonal components of the diffuse nerve network. Sherrington in turn experimentally demonstrated that intraneuronic conduction is reversible, whereas, in accord with James's law, propagation of impulses along neuronal chains is irreversible, due to the valve-like action of synapses. The story of the law of dynamic polarization shows that neither Golgi nor Cajal paid much heed to Sherrington's findings and to neurophysiological studies in general, probably because they felt that histology alone could provide the key for understanding the general functioning of the nervous system. It is argued here that this attitude was detrimental to the progress of the neurosciences, because a multidisciplinary approach based on different techniques is inevitably called for in order to develop a plausible theory of the nervous system.
The question as to whether an extracellular matrix exists between cells in the adult brain has been debated since the end of the last century. In the early years, zones containing neuropil and glial processes were mistakenly believed to represent this substance. But Golgi's discovery of the &quot;perineuronal net&quot; paved the way for future study of the true extracellular matrix. In the 1950s, application of histochemical techniques established the existence of interstitial material between nerve cells. Unfortunately the similarity between the pericellular distribution of this material and Golgi's &quot;pericellular nets&quot; was overlooked. The detection of an extracellular volume fraction in the central nervous system furnished further indirect proof for the existence of an extracellular matrix in the brain. However, the repeated failure of electron microscopy to reveal a substantial space between cell processes undermined the acceptance of the concept of &quot;extracellular matrix&quot; in the central nervous system. Nowadays this concept has, however, been firmly established.
Theories and data do not always fit and sometimes are sources of conflicts among scientists. This is the case of a morphological structure, the perineuronal net, which was denied on the basis of an ideological conflict between two giants of neurosciences: Camillo Golgi and Santiago Ramon y Cajal. The perineuronal net is a reticular structure enveloping many neurons. Orginally reported by Golgi in 1893 and 1898 and confirmed by several authors before the turn of the century, the perineuronal net was used by Golgi to support the reticular theory of the organization of the nervous system. Ramon y Cajal, the paladin of the neuronal theory who had also observed this anatomical structure, denied its existence suggesting that it was a fixation artifact. After Cajal's statements, only a few Italian scientists continued to work in this field, and after the 1930s the perineuronal net was forgotten. Only the recent advances in histochemical and immunocytochemical technology confirmed the existence of this structure opening new fields in functional neuroanatomy and neuropathology.
Camillo Golgi and Santiago Ramon y Cajal shared the Nobel Prize in 1906 for their work on the histology of the nerve cell, but both held diametrically opposed views about the Neuron Doctrine which emphasizes the structural, functional and developmental singularity of the nerve cell. Golgi's reticularist views remained entrenched and his work on the nervous system did not venture greatly into new territories after its original flowering, which had greater impact than is now commonly credited. Cajal, by contrast, by the time he was awarded the Nobel Prize, was already breaking new ground with a new staining technique in the field of peripheral nerve regeneration, seeing the reconstruction of a severed nerve by sprouting from the proximal stump as another manifestation of the Neuron Doctrine. Paradoxically, identical studies were going on simultaneously in Golgi's laboratory in the hands of Aldo Perroncito, but the findings did not seem to influence Golgi's thinking on the Neuron Doctrine.
Golgi's only paper on the pes Hippocampi major was published in 1883 and then reprinted and translated a number of times. In it he stated that the fascia dentata provided the best information available to date on how nerve fibers and nerve cells are related. Based on the revolutionary silver chromate method he had introduced a decade earlier, Golgi described two sources of axons from the fascia dentata: one consisted of direct axons from the granule cells, and the other coonsisted of indirect axons from a diffuse neural net or reticulum that was generated from collaterals of the direct axons. The same basic arrangement was described for Ammon's horn, but neither was illustrated, and it is important to bear in mind that this work was published before the &quot;neuron doctrine&quot; and &quot;law of functional polarity&quot; were elaborated in the 1890's.
Gustaf Retzius (1842-1919), the Swedish anatomist and anthropologist, and Camillo Golgi were contemporaries. They met on several occasions and came in closer contact when Golgi, together with Ramon y Cajal, was awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in Stockholm in 1906. Retzius came from an illustrious family. His father was professor of anatomy at Karolinska Institutet and Gustaf himself made a fast career. At 35, he was appointed to a professorship in histology, especially created for him at Karolinska Institutet, and later he became professor of anatomy in the same institution. Retzius was exceedingly productive, and published more than 300 scientific papers, most of which dealt with the nervous system and sensory organs. The majority of these were included in his magnificent volumes Biologische Untersuchungen, Neue Folge (Biological Investigation, New Series), which appeared from 1890 to 1921, and in Das Gehororgan der Wirbelthiere (&quot;The Acoustic Organ of Vertebrates&quot;, 1881 and 1884), which may be his internationally better know contribution. Much of his work, especially on invertebrates, was based on Ehrlich's methylene blue method, but he also used the Golgi method early on. Particularly his studies of the innervation of the sensory organs became of great importance for the support of the neuron doctrine. His standing internationally was reflected in his membership in many of the most prominent academies abroad, as well as in invitations to him to give a &quot;Croonian Lecture&quot; in 1908 and &quot;The Huxley Lecture&quot; in 1909.
Camillo Golgi opened new avenues in histology and neurobiology as well as in clinical neurology and internal medicine. This is demonstrated by investigations Golgi performed during 1861-1876 on the etiology and pathology of mental diseases, on the neuropathology of Huntington's chorea (Golgi provided the first detailed description at the microscopic level of pathological changes in the basal ganglia and cerebral cortex of one case of chorea), on meningiomas and cerebral gliomas. In the period following these investigations, Golgi focused especially on infectious diseases. He pursued fundamental studies on malaria (which remain among the most important and original of his contributions) on rabies, as well as on smallpox and influenza. Thus, Camillo Golgi should be remembered for his discoveries of the black reaction and the Golgi apparatus, as well as for the modern impulse he was able to give to clinical neurology and internal medicine.
The black reaction, invented in 1873 by Camillo Golgi (1843-1926, was the first technique to reveal neurons in their entirety, i.e. with all their processes. This important development passed unnoticed at first and only received wide international attention after a long delay. The Golgi stain was widely employed for almost thirty years and was directly responsible for major advances in our knowledge of the microscopic anatomy of the nervous system, as well as in other fields of study. In the hands of other researchers, the black reaction provided vital evidence that helped to establish the neuron theory. The Golgi stain was almost forgotten in the period between the two World Wars, but the introduction of the electron microscope to neurocytological resarch revived its use around the middle of the twentieth century. Today, the black reaction is still used extensively not only in combination with electron microscopy, but also as an autonomous technique in studies on the evolution, ontogeny, and organization of the nervous system.
Precise regulation of MHC class II gene expression is crucial for development and function of the immune system. Class II trans-activator (CIITA) has been shown to be required for constitutive and IFN-gamma-induced MHC class II transcription. TNF-alpha is commonly coexpressed with IFN-gamma during immune-mediated inflammatory responses and modulates IFN-gamma-stimulated MHC class II expression. The effect of TNF-alpha on MHC class II expression depends on cell type and cellular differentiation state. We show here that TNF-alpha suppresses IFN-gamma-induced CIITA mRNA accumulation, resulting in decreased MHC class II expression in human fibrosarcoma HT1080 cells. TNF-alpha also inhibits CIITA mRNA accumulation and protein expression in a tetracycline-regulated system without affecting promoter activity. CIITA mRNA, regulated by either IFN-gamma or tetracycline, was destabilized in the presence of TNF-alpha, suggesting that TNF-alpha utilizes a distinct mechanism to suppress MHC class II expression in HT1080 cells. Consistent with this interpretation, TNF-alpha blocked IFN-gamma-induced CIITA and MHC class II expression in mutant cells that are unresponsive to TGF-beta or IFN-beta. This is the first instance in which MHC class II expression is inhibited by destabilizing CIITA mRNA.
Using CD45-deficient clones from the immature B cell line, WEHI-231, we previously demonstrated that CD45 selectively dephosphorylates the Src-family protein tyrosine kinase Lyn and inhibits its kinase activity. To further define the mechanisms of CD45 action on Lyn, we metabolically labeled Lyn from CD45-positive and -negative WEHI-231 cells and analyzed cyanogen bromide fragments by SDS-PAGE analysis. Phosphoamino acid analysis confirmed that Lyn is tyrosine phosphorylated with little serine or threonine phosphorylation. In CD45-negative cells, two bands at 8.2 and 4.1 kDa were phosphorylated in the absence of B cell Ag receptor (BCR) ligation. The 8.2-kDa band corresponded to a fragment containing the positive regulatory site (Tyr397), as assessed by its size and its phosphorylation in an in vitro kinase assay. The 4.1-kDa band was phosphorylated by COOH-terminal Src kinase, suggesting that it contains the COOH-terminal negative regulatory site (Tyr508). CD45 was also shown to dephosphorylate autophosphorylated Lyn in vitro. Thus, CD45 dephosphorylates not only the negative but also the positive regulatory tyrosine residues of Lyn. Furthermore, coimmunoprecipitations using anti-Igalpha Ab demonstrated that Lyn associated with the resting BCR was constitutively phosphorylated and activated in CD45-negative cells. In the parental cells, both regulatory sites were phosphorylated on BCR ligation. Taken collectively, these results suggest that CD45 keeps both BCR-associated and total cytoplasmic pools of Lyn in an inactive state, and a mechanism by which Lyn is activated by relative reduction of CD45 effect may be operative on BCR ligation.

Bipolar disorder (also known as manic depressive illness) is a complex genetic disorder in which the core feature is pathological disturbance in mood (affect) ranging from extreme elation, or mania, to severe depression usually accompanied by disturbances in thinking and behaviour. The lifetime prevalence of 1% is similar in males and females and family, twin, and adoption studies provide robust evidence for a major genetic contribution to risk. There are methodological impediments to precise quantification, but the approximate lifetime risk of bipolar disorder in relatives of a bipolar proband are: monozygotic co-twin 40-70%; first degree relative 5-10%; unrelated person 0.5-1.5%. Occasional families may exist in which a single gene plays the major role in determining susceptibility, but the majority of bipolar disorder involves the interaction of multiple genes (epistasis) or more complex genetic mechanisms (such as dynamic mutation or imprinting). Molecular genetic positional and candidate gene approaches are being used for the genetic dissection of bipolar disorder. No gene has yet been identified but promising findings are emerging. Regions of interest identified in linkage studies include 4p16, 12q23-q24, 16p13, 21q22, and Xq24-q26. Chromosome 18 is also of interest but the findings are confusing with up to three possible regions implicated. To date most candidate gene studies have focused on neurotransmitter systems influenced by medication used in clinical management of the disorder but no robust positive findings have yet emerged. It is, however, almost certain that over the next few years bipolar susceptibility genes will be identified. This will have a major impact on our understanding of disease pathophysiology and will provide important opportunities to investigate the interaction between genetic and environmental factors involved in pathogenesis. This is likely to lead to major improvements in treatment and patient care but will also raise important ethical issues that will need to be addressed.
This study investigated expression of prolactin receptor (PRL-R) mRNA in selected hypothalamic nuclei of lactating rats (days 7-10 post partum) compared with dioestrous rats. Rat brains were frozen with liquid nitrogen and cut into coronal sections of 300 microm. From these sections, tissues were micropunched from the parietal cortex (CTX), choroid plexus (ChP), and five hypothalamic regions: supraoptic (SO), paraventricular (Pa), arcuate (Arc) and ventromedial hypothalamic (VMH) nuclei, and median eminence (ME). Expression of both short and long forms of PRL-R mRNA were evaluated by reverse transcription-PCR and Southern hybridisation. The results showed that the relative amount of short form mRNA in the ChP of lactating rats was significantly higher than in dioestrous rats. The short form of PRL-R mRNA was undetectable in the SO, Pa, VMH of dioestrous rats but was expressed at a significant level in lactating rats. Levels of long form mRNA in the ChP, SO, Pa and VMH in lactating rats were significantly increased compared with dioestrous rats. Moreover, the long form mRNA was induced in the CTX of lactating rats. In the Arc, levels of both forms of PRL-R mRNA tended to increase in lactating rats compared with dioestrous rats but changes were not statistically significant. Neither form of PRL-R mRNA was detectable in the ME in the two animal models. Increased expression of PRL-R mRNA in specific brain regions during lactation is consistent with the variety of PRL effects on the brain, and may help to explain profound physiological changes in the lactating mother.
The growth of solid tumors is highly dependent on vascular proliferation. Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), the main mediator of angiogenesis, and platelet-derived growth factor receptor-beta (PDGFR-beta), receptor for the potent mitogen PDGF, are two indicators of the angiogenic potential of human gliomas. We studied a series of 57 surgical biopsies of astrocytic neoplasms by immunohistochemistry to elucidate the relationship between tumor proliferation, quantified as Ki67-LI, and the expression of these two proteins. Ki67-LI increases throughout histological malignancy, although staining in endothelial cells has rarely been recorded. Elevated amounts of VEGF-positive tumor cells (VEGF-LI) were found in anaplastic astrocytomas and glioblastomas, mainly around areas of necrosis, cysts, or edema. Endothelium of blood vessels was consistently stained. PDGFR-beta positivity was found in glomeruloid formations and in tumor cells, excluding pilocytic astrocytomas. Multinucleated giant cells and perivascular tumor cells were positive in glioblastomas. In addition, peritumoral microglia-like cells were also stained in some cases. Statistical correlation was only found between PDGFR-beta and Ki67 LIs. In conclusion, VEGF as permeability factor is involved in the development of secondary neoplastic changes, whereas PDGFR-beta is directly correlated to proliferation indexes. Strong expression of VEGF and PDGFR-beta found in endothelium and tumor cells would seem to support a combined role in tumoral neoangiogenesis.
Schizophrenia is a common and severe psychiatric disorder of unknown etiology. Numerous neuropathological studies have found subtle structural changes in limbic structures, especially medial temporal lobe structures and the gyrus cinguli. To test the hypothesis that synaptic disturbances are involved in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia, we studied the growth-associated protein 43 (GAP-43), a protein localized to presynaptic terminals, suggested to be involved in establishment and remodeling of synaptic connections, in postmortem brain tissue, using quantitative Western blotting immunohistochemistry. The material consisted of brain tissue from 17 schizophrenics (80 +/- 11 yr), diagnosed according to the DSM-III-R criteria, and 20 age-matched controls (75 +/- 13 yr). Quantitative analyses showed increased GAP-43 protein levels in schizophrenic compared to control brains, both in the hippocampus (2.43 +/- 0.78 vs 1.00 +/- 0.29; p &lt; 0.0001) and in the gyrus cinguli (1.52 +/- 0.21 vs 1.00 +/- 0.35; p &lt; 0.0001). Also by immunohistochemistry, increased GAP-43 staining was found in schizophrenic compared with control brains, throughout all layers of the gyrus cinguli and the hippocampus. Anomalous synaptic sprouting and reorganization, with resultant &quot;miswiring,&quot; as well as a defect in synaptic pruning have been hypothesized to be pathogenetic factors in schizophrenia. We suggest that a decreased synaptic density, whether caused by disturbed development or damage/degeneration, may elicit a reactive synaptogenesis (reflected by an increase in GAP-43), which may be functional or anomalous. Synaptic pathology in the limbic system may be of importance in the development of psychotic symptoms in schizophrenia.
During the breeding season, male green anoles (Anolis carolinensis) court females by extending a red throat fan called a dewlap. Motoneurons controlling this sexually dimorphic behavior are located in two portions of the brain stem: (a) the vagal portion of nucleus ambiguus (AmbX), and (b) the region containing the glossopharyngeal portion of nucleus ambiguus and the ventral motor nucleus of the facial nerve (AmbIX/VIImv). These motoneurons project to the ceratohyoideus muscle via the ramus pharyngo-laryngeus IX+X. To investigate the effects of season on and androgen regulation of neural and peripheral structures controlling dewlap extension, two experiments were conducted: (a) During the breeding and nonbreeding seasons, motoneuron number, soma size, and nucleus size were investigated in intact males and females and in castrated males treated with a testosterone propionate (TP) or a blank Silastic capsule. (b) Cross-sectional area of the nerve and muscle fiber size, number, and density were investigated in the four treatment groups during the breeding season only. No significant differences were found in motoneuron number. In the breeding season, subtle male-biased sex differences existed in both AmbX and AmbIX/VIImv soma size. Nerve cross-sectional area and muscle fiber size and number were substantially larger in males than females. Muscle fiber density was higher in females. No consistent effects due to season or androgen treatment were detected, although characteristics of motoneurons were in some cases slightly larger in the nonbreeding season. These results suggest that, while parallels to behavior exist between the sexes, morphological changes in adulthood in the dewlap motoneurons and muscle do not normally regulate courtship behavior in the male green anole.
The zebra finch telencephalon exhibits rapid and substantial development in the first few weeks after hatching. In parallel, the rate of estradiol synthesis is very high in the zebra finch forebrain, and estradiol can have potent neurotrophic effects in specific telencephalic regions, including those that control the learning and production of song. In an attempt to elucidate mechanisms regulating telencephalic development, potentially including a role for the large capacity for estrogen production, (125)I-nerve growth factor (NGF) binding was measured in homogenates of telencephalon from zebra finches age 3, 15, 30, 60, and 120 days. The highest density of low- and high-affinity (125)I-NGF binding sites was observed in 3-day-old finches. Using an aromatase inhibitor, Fadrozole, to reduce estradiol levels in 1 to 4-day-old zebra finches significantly decreased both high- and low-affinity (125)I-NGF binding sites. Conversely, treating adult or 8 to 14-day-old hatchlings with estradiol increased high-affinity (125)I-NGF binding sites. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that estradiol influences the level of NGF receptors, and suggest one mechanism through which the steroid could affect brain development. The data also indicate that estradiol and NGF activity may be important for very early development of the telencephalon.
Interaction of antibodies to ganglioside GM1 with Neuro2a cells was studied to investigate the role of GM1 in cell signaling. Binding of anti-GM1 to Neuro2a cells induced the formation of 3H-inositol phosphates (3H-IPs) and elevated the intracellular Ca2+ concentration [Ca2+]i. The rise in [Ca2+]i was due to the influx of Ca2+ from the extracellular medium and release from intracellular Ca2+ pools. The Ca2+ influx pathway did not allow the permeation of Na+ or K+. The influx was inhibited by amiloride, a specific blocker of T-type Ca2+ channels, whereas nifedipine and diltiazem, blockers of L-type Ca2+ channels, did not have any effect. Thus, anti-GM1 appears to activate a T-type Ca2+ channel in Neuro2a cells. The intracellular Ca2+ release was inhibited by pretreatment of cells with neomycin sulfate, phorbol dibutyrate, and pertussis toxin (PTx), which also inhibited the 3H-IP formation in Neuro2a cells. Addition of caffeine neither elevated the [Ca2+]i nor affected the anti-GM1-induced [Ca2+]i rise. The data reveal that the binding of anti-GM1 to Neuro2a cells activates phospholipase C via a PTx-sensitive G protein, which leads to formation of IPs and release of Ca2+ from inositol trisphosphate-sensitive pool of endoplasmic reticulum. Anti-GM1 also arrested the differentiation of Neuro2a cells in culture and significantly stimulated their proliferation. This stimulatory effect of anti-GM1 on cell proliferation was blocked by amiloride but not by PTx, suggesting that the influx of Ca2+ was essentially required for cell proliferation. Our data suggest a role for GM1 in the regulation of transmembrane signaling events and cell growth.
We found that several nitric oxide donors had similar potency in killing mature and immature forms of oligodendrocytes (OLs). Because of the possibility of interaction of nitric oxide with intracellular thiols, we tested the effect of the nitrosonium ion donor S-nitrosylglutathione (SNOG) in OL cultures in the setting of cystine deprivation, which has been shown to cause intracellular glutathione depletion. Surprisingly, the presence of 200 microM SNOG completely protected OLs against the toxicity of cystine depletion. This protection appeared to be due to nitric oxide, because it could be blocked by hemoglobin and potentiated by inclusion of superoxide dismutase. We tested the effect of three additional NO* donors and found that protection was not seen with diethylamine NONOate, a donor with a half-life measured in minutes, but was seen with dipropylenetriamine NONOate and diethylaminetriamine NONOate, donors with half-lives measured in hours. This need for donors with longer half-lives for the protective effect suggested that NO* was required when intracellular thiol concentrations were falling, a process evolving over hours in medium depleted of cystine. These studies suggest a novel protective role for nitric oxide in oxidative stress injury and raise the possibility that intracerebral nitric oxide production might be a mechanism of defense against oxidative stress injury in OLs.
Hypocretins/orexins are recently characterized peptides that are synthesized in neurones of the lateral hypohalamus and stimulate food intake in rats. To clarify whether leptin may interact with hypocretin/orexin to reduce ingestive behaviour, the presence of leptin receptor-immunoreactivity in hypocretin/orexin-containing neurones was examined. Many leptin receptor-and hypocretin/orexin-immunoreactive neurones were demonstrated in the lateral hypothalamic area and perifornical region. Both direct double-labelling and elution-restaining methods showed that leptin receptor-immunoreactivity was present in the vast majority of hypocretin/orexin-containing neurones. Immunoreactivity for STAT3, a transcription factor activated by leptin, was also demonstrated in hypocretin/orexin-containing neurones. Isolated hypocretin/orexin cell bodies in the dorsal part of the lateral hypothalamic area and the ventral perifornical region were shown to contain immunoreactivity for galanin, another peptide known to affect feeding. Galanin neurones were also seen to contain leptin receptor-and STAT3-immunoreactivity. Melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH)-containing neurones constituted a cell population within the lateral hypothalamus distinct from the one containing hypocretin/orexin-immunoreactivity, as shown by elution-restaining methodology. The presence of leptin receptor-and STAT3-immunoreactivities in hypocretin/orexin-containing neurones of the lateral hypothalamus suggests that leptin may directly regulate these hypothalamic neurones, most likely via an inhibitory action on hypocretin/orexin expression and/or secretion resulting in reduced food intake.
Puberty in the male Syrian hamster (Mesocricetus auratus) is characterized by decreased responsiveness to testosterone mediated negative feedback, but the neural mechanism for this change remains elusive. We hypothesized that decreased inhibition of the gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) system results in increased neurosecretory activity, which includes an increase in GnRH gene expression. This study examined GnRH mRNA in male hamsters before and after puberty, and sought to determine if any increase in mRNA was specific to particular subpopulations of GnRH neurones. Brains were collected from 21-day-old prepubertal males (n = 5) and 56-day-old postpubertal males (n = 5). Alternate 10 microm coronal sections from fresh-frozen brains were collected throughout the septo-hypothalamic region, and 25% of those sections were processed for in-situ hybridization histochemistry using an 35S-riboprobe complementary to hamster GnRH. No differences were observed in the number of GnRH mRNA expressing cells in any region, but in the diagonal band of Broca (DBB)/organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis (OVLT) there was a significant increase in labelling intensity (defined as area of the cell occupied by silver grains) in postpubertal males. A second analysis compared the frequency distributions of cells based on labelling intensity between prepubertal and postpubertal males. This analysis revealed significant differences between the two frequency distributions in all areas analysed (DBB/OVLT, medial septum (MS), and preoptic area (POA)). Furthermore, examining the distribution of cells in these regions revealed a shift to the right in the postpubertal population of cells, which indicated an increased number of GnRH neurones with greater labelling intensity. These data clearly demonstrate increased GnRH mRNA during puberty. Furthermore, they suggest that the previous observation of brain region specific pubertal decreases in GnRH-immunoreactivity only within the DBB/OVLT and MS but not the POA are not due to differential levels of GnRH gene expression, but could indicate increased release from these neurones during puberty.

This study assessed whether dysfunction of the blood-brain barrier is an obligatory early event in lesion formation in multiple sclerosis. Dual-echo and T1-weighted magnetic resonance imaging after the injection of a triple dose (0.3 mmol/kg) of gadolinium-DTPA were obtained from ten patients with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis every week for 2 months. Sixty-four newly active lesions were detected by the two techniques. All the 44 new lesions seen on dual-echo scans enhanced during the early phases of their formation: 33 at their first appearance, 10 1 week before their appearance on the dual-echo scans, and one the week thereafter. When the every fourth (monthly) scan was analyzed, a total of 55 newly active lesions were detected (i.e., 14% active lesions would have been missed compared to the number found on weekly scanning). Thirty-one of them were detected by both dual-echo and triple-dose scans, 15 only by enhanced scans, and nine only by dual-echo scans. This study confirms that with highly sensitive magnetic resonance imaging techniques dysfunction of the blood-brain barrier is an obligatory early event in new lesion formation in relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis.
Recent anatomic results indicate that a large direct projection from the spinal cord to the hypothalamus exists in monkeys. The aim of this study was to determine whether the existence of this projection could be confirmed unambiguously using electrophysiological methods and, if so, to determine the response characteristics of primate spinohypothalamic tract (SHT) neurons. Fifteen neurons in the lumbar enlargement of macaque monkeys were antidromically activated using low-amplitude current pulses in the contralateral hypothalamus. The points at which antidromic activation thresholds were lowest were found in the supraoptic decussation (n = 13) or in the medial hypothalamus (n = 2). Recording points were located in the superficial dorsal horn (n = 1), deep dorsal horn (n = 10), and intermediate zone (n = 4). Each of the 12 examined neurons had cutaneous receptive fields on the ipsilateral hindlimb. All neurons responded exclusively or preferentially to noxious stimuli, suggesting that the transmission of nociceptive information is an important role of primate SHT axons. Twelve SHT neurons were also antidromically activated from the thalamus. In all cases, the antidromic latency from the thalamus was shorter than that from the hypothalamus, suggesting that the axons pass through the thalamus then enter the hypothalamus. These results confirm the existence of a SHT in primates and suggest that this projection may contribute to the production of autonomic, neuroendocrine, and emotional responses to noxious stimuli in primates, possibly including humans.
This study describes two load-independent rhythmic contributions from motor-unit synchronization to normal physiological tremor, which occur in the frequency ranges 1-12 Hz and 15-30 Hz. In common with previous studies, we use increased inertial loading to identify load-independent components of physiological tremor. The data consist of simultaneous recordings of tremor acceleration from the third finger, a surface electromyogram (EMG), and the discharges of pairs of single motor units from the extensor digitorum communis (EDC) muscle, collected from 13 subjects, and divided into 2 data sets: 106 records with the finger unloaded and 84 records with added mass from 5 to 40 g. Frequency domain analysis of motor-unit data from individual subjects reveals the presence of two distinct frequency bands in motor-unit synchronization, 1-12 Hz and 15-30 Hz. A novel Fourier-based population analysis demonstrates that the same two rhythmic components are present in motor-unit synchronization across both data sets. These frequency components are not related to motor-unit firing rates. The same frequency bands are present in the correlation between motor-unit activity and tremor and between surface EMG activity and tremor, despite a significant alteration in the characteristics of the tremor with increased inertial loading. A multivariate analysis demonstrates conclusively that motor-unit synchronization is the source of these contributions to normal physiological tremor. The population analysis suggests that single motor-unit discharges can predict an average of 10% of the total tremor signal in these two frequency bands. Rectified surface EMG can predict an average of 20% of the tremor; therefore within our population of recordings, the two components of motor-unit synchronization account for an average of 20% of the total tremor signal, in the frequency ranges 1-12 Hz and 15-30 Hz. Our results demonstrate that normal physiological tremor is a complex signal containing information relating to motor-unit synchronization in different frequency bands, and lead to a revised definition of normal physiological tremor during low force postural contractions, which is based on using both the tremor spectra and the correlation between motor-unit activity and tremor to characterize the load-dependent and the load-independent components of tremor. In addition, both physiological tremor and rectified EMG emerge as powerful predictors of the frequency components of motor-unit synchronization.
Operant conditioning was used to train cats with their heads immobilized to localize sound by directing their eyes to the location of the sources. The kinematics of those eye movements were studied and compared with eye movements to visual targets at the same locations. The main finding of this study is that eye movements to broadband long-duration acoustic targets have two components: an initial slow phase of variable duration and a fast, normal saccade. The slow component is characterized by a persistent, shallow velocity ramp, while the saccadic component of the response falls on the main sequence computed from eye movements to visual targets. The slow component was shorter before saccades to long-duration stimuli performed under the delayed-saccade task and practically absent before saccades to transient acoustic stimuli. The results suggest that the initial slow component is used by cats to deal with uncertainty associated with the location of long-duration broadband targets and that the input to the saccade integrator(s) is similar under both visual and acoustic conditions.
The subthalamic nucleus (STN) is one of the principal sources of excitatory glutamatergic input to dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra, yet stimulation of the STN produces both excitatory and inhibitory effects on nigral dopaminergic neurons recorded extracellularly in vivo. The present experiments were designed to determine the sources of the excitatory and inhibitory effects. Synaptic potentials were recorded intracellularly from substantia nigra pars compacta dopaminergic neurons in parasagittal slices in response to stimulation of the STN. Synaptic potentials were analyzed for onset latency, amplitude, duration, and reversal potential in the presence and absence of GABA and glutamate receptor antagonists. STN-evoked depolarizing synaptic responses in dopaminergic neurons reversed at approximately -31 mV, intermediate between the expected reversal potential for an excitatory and an inhibitory postsynaptic potential (EPSP and IPSP). Blockade of GABA(A) receptors with bicuculline caused a positive shift in the reversal potential to near 0 mV, suggesting that STN stimulation evoked a near simultaneous EPSP and IPSP. Both synaptic responses were blocked by application of the glutamate receptor antagonist, 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxalene-2,3-dione. The confounding influence of inhibitory fibers of passage from globus pallidus and/or striatum by STN stimulation was eliminated by unilaterally transecting striatonigral and pallidonigral fibers 3 days before recording. The reversal potential of STN-evoked synaptic responses in dopaminergic neurons in slices from transected animals was approximately -30 mV. Bath application of bicuculline shifted the reversal potential to approximately 5 mV as it did in intact animals, suggesting that the source of the IPSP was within substantia nigra. These data indicate that electrical stimulation of the STN elicits a mixed EPSP-IPSP in nigral dopaminergic neurons due to the coactivation of an excitatory monosynaptic and an inhibitory polysynaptic connection between the STN and the dopaminergic neurons of substantia nigra pars compacta. The EPSP arises from a direct monosynaptic excitatory glutamatergic input from the STN. The IPSP arises polysynaptically, most likely through STN-evoked excitation of GABAergic neurons in substantia nigra pars reticulata, which produces feed-forward GABA(A)-mediated inhibition of dopaminergic neurons through inhibitory intranigral axon collaterals.
The marine mollusk Clione limacina, when swimming, can stabilize different body orientations in the gravitational field. Here we describe one of the modes of operation of the postural network in Clione-maintenance of the vertical, head-up orientation. Experiments were performed on the CNS-statocyst preparation. Spike discharges in the axons of different types of neurons were recorded extracellularly when the preparation was rotated in space through 360 degrees in different planes. We characterized the spatial zones of activity of the tail and wing motor neurons as well as of the CPB3 interneurons mediating the effects of statocyst receptor cells on the tail motor neurons. It was found that the activity of the tail motor neurons increased with deviation of the preparation from the normal, rostral-side-up orientation. Their zones of activity were very wide ( approximately 180 degrees ). According to the zone position, three distinct groups of tail motor neuron (T1-T3) could be distinguished. The T1 group had a center of the zone near the ventral-side-up orientation, whereas the zones of T2 and T3 had their centers near the left-side-up and the right-side-up positions, respectively. By comparing the zone of activity with the direction of tail bending elicited by each of the groups, one can conclude that gravitational reflexes mediated by the T1, T2, and T3 groups will evoke turning of the animal toward the head-up orientation. Two identified wing motor neurons, 1A and 2A, causing the wing beating, were involved in gravitational reactions. They were activated with the downward inclination of the ipsilateral side. Opposite reactions were observed in the motor neurons responsible for the wing retraction. A presumed motor effect of these reactions is an increase of oscillations in the wing that is directed downward and turning of Clione toward the head-up orientation. Among the CPB3 interneurons, at least four groups could be distinguished. In three of them (IN1, IN2, and IN3), the zones of activity were similar to those of the three groups (T1, T2, and T3) of the tail motor neurons. The group IN4 had the center of its zone in the dorsal-side-up position; a corresponding group was not found among the tail motor neurons. In lesion experiments, it was found that gravitational input mediated by a single CPB3 interneuron produced activation of its target tail motor neurons in their normal zones, but the strength of response was reduced considerably. This finding suggests that several interneurons with similar spatial zones converge on individual tail motor neurons. In conclusion, because of a novel method, activity of the neuronal network responsible for the postural control in Clione was characterized in the terms of gravitational responses in different neuron groups comprising the network.
The anterior forebrain pathway (AFP) of the oscine song system is essential for song learning but not song production. Most cells recorded in this serially connected pathway show increased firing in response to song playback, suggesting largely excitatory connections among AFP nuclei. However, the neurons forming a key projection in this pathway, from area X to the medial nucleus of the dorsolateral thalamus (DLM), express glutamic acid decarboxylase in their somata and terminals, suggesting an inhibitory connection. To investigate the firing properties of DLM neurons and the functional influence of area X afferents in DLM, we made whole-cell recordings from DLM neurons in brain slices from adult male zebra finches. Most cells had intrinsic properties closely resembling those of mammalian thalamocortical cells, including a low-threshold Ca(2+) spike and time-dependent, hyperpolarization-activated inward rectification. Activation of afferents from area X evoked a strong, all-or-none IPSP whose amplitude and latency were unchanged by application of glutamate antagonists, consistent with a monosynaptic contact. The IPSP had a reversal potential near -70 mV and was blocked by the GABA(A) receptor antagonist bicuculline methiodide. Post-inhibitory rebound firing occurred in DLM neurons with a delay near 50 msec. Strong inhibition can combine with the intrinsic properties of DLM neurons to allow signaling on disinhibition. Our data are consistent with the hypothesis that the AFP corresponds to the mammalian corticobasal ganglia-thalamocortical loop. The similar functional properties of avian and mammalian thalamic neurons suggest conserved forebrain mechanisms of sensorimotor information processing across vertebrate taxa.
The septal nuclei are reciprocally connected with the hippocampal formation and contribute importantly to spatial and memory processing. Using excitotoxic lesions of the septal area, we investigated whether neurodegeneration in subcortical projections to hippocampus can compromise flexible information processing by hippocampal single units. In agreement with the mild effects of excitotoxic septal lesions on hippocampal physiology compared with fimbria-fornix lesions and septal inactivation, we observed limited lesion effects on single-unit activity. The location specificity of hippocampal complex spike cells remained unchanged, but a less reliable location-dependent discharge was observed in experimental animals with a pronounced postoperative working memory deficit. Testing in the absence of ambient illumination and in a new environment revealed that the spatial correlates of complex spike cells in lesioned animals may rely on a more limited set of sensory cues. Altered sensory cues resulted in a significantly different response pattern between the control and lesion group in the new environment, a situation that normally results in place field reorganization. Such a group difference was not observed during dark testing, a condition in which place field reorganization is less prominent. A contribution of hippocampal interneurons to the observed alterations in the spatial properties of the principal cells was suggested by decreased theta modulation in the lesioned group. Because excitotoxic lesions result in memory deficits that resemble age-related memory problems in the absence of age-related degenerative processes, we suggest that septal neurodegeneration could directly contribute to those behavioral changes with advanced age that correlate with functional alterations in the hippocampal formation.
Interactions among rhythmically active neuronal circuits that oscillate at different frequencies are important for generating complex behaviors, yet little is known about the underlying cellular mechanisms. We addressed this issue in the crab stomatogastric ganglion (STG), which contains two distinct but interacting circuits. These circuits generate the gastric mill rhythm (cycle period, approximately 10 sec) and the pyloric rhythm (cycle period, approximately 1 sec). When the identified modulatory projection neuron named modulatory commissural neuron 1 (MCN1) is activated, the gastric mill motor pattern is generated by interactions among MCN1 and two STG neurons [the lateral gastric (LG) neuron and interneuron 1]. We show that, during MCN1 stimulation, an identified synapse from the pyloric circuit onto the gastric mill circuit is pivotal for determining the gastric mill cycle period and the gastric-pyloric rhythm coordination. To examine the role of this intercircuit synapse, we replaced it with a computational equivalent via the dynamic-clamp technique. This enabled us to manipulate better the timing and strength of this synapse. We found this synapse to be necessary for production of the normal gastric mill cycle period. The synapse acts, during each LG neuron interburst, to boost rhythmically the influence of the modulatory input from MCN1 to LG and thereby to hasten LG neuron burst onset. The two rhythms become coordinated because LG burst onset occurs with a constant latency after the onset of the triggering pyloric input. These results indicate that intercircuit synapses can enable an oscillatory circuit to control the speed of a slower oscillatory circuit, as well as provide a mechanism for intercircuit coordination.
A memory trace in its active state is susceptible to interference by amnesic agents, such as hypothermia and electroconvulsive shock, and by NMDA receptor antagonists, suggesting that a time-dependent consolidation process occurs each time a memory is reactivated. The role of beta noradrenergic receptors in reconsolidation in rats was examined in both a positively reinforced radial maze task and a footshock-reinforced conditioned emotional response task. For the former, rats were trained over several days in a spatial reference memory task and received a single reactivation trial followed by propranolol. A temporally graded impairment was observed when propranolol treatment occurred after the memory reactivation trial. In the emotional task, memory impairing effects of propranolol were greater when the drug was administered after a reactivation trial than when administered immediately after the initial training. These results suggest that reactivation of memory triggers a beta receptor-dependent cascade of intracellular events, recapitulating that which occurs during initial postacquisition consolidation, thus permitting reorganization of the existing memory as a function of new information in the retrieval environment. This remarkable lability of an active memory trace provides a new basis for pharmacotherapeutic intervention in such syndromes as Posttraumatic Stress Disorder. beta adrenoreceptor antagonists may be promising pharmacological agents for attenuating debilitating memories at the time of their controlled reactivation.
GAL4-driven targeted expression of tetanus toxin light chain (UAS-TeTxLC) in a subset of chemosensory neurons of the larval antennomaxillary complex (AMC) and pharynx causes abnormal chemosensory behavior in Drosophila melanogaster. Consistent with strongest staining in the dorsal organ (DO), the presumed olfactory organ of the AMC, tetanus toxin-expressing larvae subjected to an olfactory preference assay show anosmic behavior to most volatile substances tested. Furthermore, we observed reduced responses to sodium chloride, fructose, and sucrose in gustatory plate assays. Surprisingly, the entire subset of labeled sensory neurons from the terminal (maxillary) organ (TO) of the AMC was found to project via the antennal nerve to the larval antennal lobe region. The maxillary nerve remained completely unstained. Hence, a subset of neurons from the TO builds an anatomical entity with projections from the DO. Our results suggest that the AMC contains both olfactory and gustatory sensilla, and that the DO is the main olfactory organ in larvae.
Here, we investigate the involvement of caveolins in the pathophysiology of Alzheimer's disease (AD). We show dramatic upregulation of caveolin-3 immunoreactivity in astroglial cells surrounding senile plaques in brain tissue sections from authentic AD patients and an established transgenic mouse model of AD. In addition, we find that caveolin-3 physically interacts and biochemically colocalizes with amyloid precursor protein (APP) both in vivo and in vitro. Interestingly, recombinant overexpression of caveolin-3 in cultured cells stimulated beta-secretase-mediated processing of APP. Immunoreactivities of APP and presenilins were concomitantly increased in caveolin-3-positive astrocytes. Because the presenilins also form a physical complex with caveolin-3, caveolin-3 may provide a common platform for APP and the presenilins to associate in astrocytes. In AD, augmented expression of caveolin-3 and presenilins in reactive astrocytes may alter APP processing, leading to the overproduction of its toxic amyloid metabolites.
Small-diameter sensory neurons that are primarily nociceptors can be divided neurochemically into two populations: isolectin B(4) (IB(4))-positive nonpeptidergic neurons, and IB(4)-negative peptidergic neurons. It has been shown that IB(4)-positive neurons depend on glial-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), whereas IB(4)-negative neurons depend on NGF for survival during postnatal development (Molliver et al., 1997). Furthermore, these two populations of nociceptors terminate in distinct regions of the superficial spinal cord. To date, however, no evidence exists that indicates whether these two groups of nociceptors have distinct functional roles in the process of nociception (Snider and McMahon, 1998). To search for functional differences, we performed whole-cell voltage and current-clamp recordings on acutely isolated adult mouse dorsal root ganglion neurons that were labeled with fluorescent IB(4). We found that IB(4)-positive neurons have longer-duration action potentials, higher densities of TTX-resistant sodium currents, and smaller noxious heat-activated currents than IB(4)-negative neurons. Furthermore, we show that NGF, but not GDNF, directly increases the number of neurons that respond to noxious heat. The different electrophysiological properties expressed by IB(4)-positive and -negative small neurons, including their different heat sensitivities, indicates that they may relay distinct aspects of noxious stimuli both acutely and after injury in vivo.
Recent data showed that group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) are located perisynaptic to the postsynaptic specializations of asymmetric glutamatergic synapses in the cerebellum and hippocampus in rats. In the present study, we used immunogold labeling to elucidate the subsynaptic localization of group I mGluRs (mGluR1a and mGluR5) in the internal and external segments of the globus pallidus in monkeys. In contrast to hippocampal and cerebellar neurons, which receive massive glutamatergic inputs, dendrites of pallidal neurons are covered with GABAergic boutons from the striatum intermingled with a small proportion of glutamatergic terminals arising largely from the subthalamic nucleus. In line with previous data, mGluR1a and mGluR5 immunoreactivity was found at the edge of the postsynaptic specializations of asymmetric synapses established by subthalamic-like boutons in the monkey pallidum. However, a large proportion of gold particles were also seen in the main body of the postsynaptic specializations of symmetric synapses formed by striatal GABAergic terminals. These data raise questions about the possible sources of activation of these receptors and the potential roles of group I mGluRs in modulating GABAergic neurotransmission at striatopallidal synapses.
We report the molecular cloning and characterization of 4.1N, a novel neuronal homolog of the erythrocyte membrane cytoskeletal protein 4.1 (4.1R). The 879 amino acid protein shares 70, 36, and 46% identity with 4.1R in the defined membrane-binding, spectrin-actin-binding, and C-terminal domains, respectively. 4.1N is expressed in almost all central and peripheral neurons of the body and is detected in embryonic neurons at the earliest stage of postmitotic differentiation. Like 4.1R, 4.1N has multiple splice forms as evidenced by PCR and Western analysis. Whereas the predominant 4.1N isoform identified in brain is approximately 135 kDa, a smaller 100 kDa isoform is enriched in peripheral tissues. Immunohistochemical studies using a polyclonal 4.1N antibody revealed several patterns of neuronal staining, with localizations in the neuronal cell body, dendrites, and axons. In certain neuronal locations, including the granule cell layers of the cerebellum and dentate gyrus, a distinct punctate-staining pattern was observed consistent with a synaptic localization. In primary hippocampal cultures, mouse 4.1N is enriched at the discrete sites of synaptic contact, colocalizing with the postsynaptic density protein of 95 kDa (a postsynaptic marker) and glutamate receptor type 1 (an excitatory postsynaptic marker). By analogy with the roles of 4.1R in red blood cells, 4.1N may function to confer stability and plasticity to the neuronal membrane via interactions with multiple binding partners, including the spectrin-actin-based cytoskeleton, integral membrane channels and receptors, and membrane-associated guanylate kinases.
Volume-sensitive organic anion channels (VSOACs) in astrocytes are activated by cell swelling and are permeable to organic anions, such as glutamate and taurine. We have examined the release of glutamate through VSOACs during the propagation of spreading depression (SD). SD was induced by bath application of ouabain in hippocampal brain slices and was monitored by imaging intrinsic optical signals, a technique that provides a measure of cellular swelling. The onset of SD was associated with increased light transmittance, confirming previous studies that cellular swelling occurs during SD. NMDA receptor antagonists, either noncompetitive (MK-801, 10-50 microM) or competitive (CGS-17355, 100 microM), reduced the rate of propagation of SD, indicating that glutamate release contributes to SD onset. SD still occurred in zero Ca(2+)-EGTA (0-Ca(2+)-EGTA) solution, a manipulation that depresses synaptic transmission. HPLC measurements indicated that, even in this solution, there was significant glutamate release. Two lines of experiments indicated that glutamate was released through VSOACs during SD. First, 5-nitro-2-(3-phenylpropylamino) benzoic acid (NPPB), a blocker of VSOACs, depressed the rate of propagation of SD in a manner similar to NMDA antagonists. Second, NPPB inhibited the release of glutamate during SD in 0-Ca(2+)-EGTA external solution. These results indicate that cellular swelling during SD causes the activation of VSOACs and the release of glutamate by permeation through this channel. Cellular swelling is a result of neuronal activity and is observed during excitotoxicity. Therefore, glutamate release from VSOAC activation could occur under conditions of cell swelling and contribute to excitotoxic damage.
Axon specification is a crucial, early step in neuronal development, but little is known about how this event is controlled in vivo. To test the hypothesis that local presentation of growth-promoting molecules can direct axon specification, we cultured hippocampal neurons on substrates patterned with stripes of poly-L-lysine and either laminin (LN) or the neuron-glia cell adhesion molecule (NgCAM). Although undifferentiated neurites contacted both substrates equally, axons formed preferentially on LN or NgCAM. Time-lapse studies revealed that changes in the growth pattern of a cell indicative of axon specification began almost immediately after the growth cone of one of the neurites of the cell contacted LN or NgCAM. When cells were plated on alternating stripes of LN and NgCAM, cells with their somata on LN usually formed axons on NgCAM, whereas those with somata on NgCAM preferentially formed axons on LN. This suggests that the change from one axon-promoting substrate to another also provides a signal sufficient to specify the axon. These results demonstrate that contact with preferred substrate molecules can govern which neurite becomes the axon and thus direct the development of neuronal polarity.
The symptoms of Parkinson disease are thought to result in part from increased burst activity in globus pallidus neurons. To gain a better understanding of the factors governing this activity, we studied delayed rectifier K(+) conductances in acutely isolated rat globus pallidus (GP) neurons, using whole-cell voltage-clamp and single-cell RT-PCR techniques. From a holding potential of -40 mV, depolarizing voltage steps in identified GP neurons evoked slowly inactivating K(+) currents. Analysis of the tail currents revealed rapidly and slowly deactivating currents of similar amplitude. The fast component of the current deactivated with a time constant of 11. 1 +/- 0.8 msec at -40 mV and was blocked by micromolar concentrations of 4-AP and TEA (K(D) approximately 140 microM). The slow component of the current deactivated with a time constant of 89 +/- 10 microseconds at -40 mV and was less sensitive to TEA (K(D) = 0.8 mM) and 4-AP (K(D) approximately 6 mM). Organic antagonists of Kv1 family channels had little or no effect on somatic currents. These properties are consistent with the hypothesis that the rapidly deactivating current is attributable to Kv3.1/3.2 channels and the slowly deactivating current to Kv2.1-containing channels. Semiquantitative single-cell RT-PCR analysis of Kv3 and Kv2 family mRNAs supported this conclusion. An alteration in the balance of these two channel types could underlie the emergence of burst firing after dopamine-depleting lesions.
The second messenger pathways linking receptor activation at the membrane to changes in the nucleus are just beginning to be unraveled in neurons. The work presented here attempts to identify in striatal neurons the pathways that mediate cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) phosphorylation and gene expression in response to NMDA receptor activation. We investigated the phosphorylation of the transcription factor CREB, the expression of the immediate early gene c-fos, and the induction of a transfected reporter gene under the transcriptional control of CREB after stimulation of ionotropic glutamate receptors. We found that neither AMPA/kainate receptors nor NMDA receptors were able to stimulate independently a second messenger pathway that led to CREB phosphorylation or c-fos gene expression. Instead, we saw a consecutive pathway from AMPA/kainate receptors to NMDA receptors and from NMDA receptors to L-type Ca(2+) channels. AMPA/kainate receptors were involved in relieving the Mg(2+) block of NMDA receptors, and NMDA receptors triggered the opening of L-type Ca(2+) channels. The second messenger pathway that activates CREB phosphorylation and c-fos gene expression is likely activated by Ca(2+) entry through L-type Ca(2+) channels. We conclude that in primary striatal neurons glutamate-mediated signal transduction is dependent on functional L-type Ca(2+) channels.
Two types of Usher syndrome, a blindness-deafness disorder, result from mutations in the myosin VIIa gene. As for most other unconventional myosins, little is known about the function or functions of myosin VIIa. Here, we studied the photoreceptor cells of mice with mutant myosin VIIa by electron immunomicroscopy and microscopic autoradiography. We found evidence that myosin VIIa functions in the connecting cilium of each photoreceptor cell and participates in the transport of opsin through this structure. These findings provide the first direct evidence that opsin travels along the connecting cilium en route to the outer segment. They demonstrate that a myosin may function in a cilium and suggest that abnormal opsin transport might contribute to blindness in Usher syndrome.
Grounded theory methodology was utilized to explore the experiences of critical care nurses caring for patients who were unable to respond due to a traumatic brain injury or receiving neuromuscular blocking agents. The registered nurses participating in the study worked in a neuroscience intensive care unit. Saturation of the categories was achieved with 16 interviews. The core category that emerged from the study is Giving the Patient a Chance. The subcategories of Learning about My Patient, Maintaining and Monitoring, Talking to My Patient, Working with Families, Struggling with Dilemmas and Personalizing the Experience all centered upon the focus of doing everything to help the patient attain the best possible outcome. Factors influencing each of the subcategories were identified such as the acuity of the patient, experience level of the nurse and the presence or absence of family members or significant others. These factors accounted for the variations in the nurses' experience. Several reasons accounting for the variations were determined. The study identified areas that need to be addressed in both general nursing education and nursing practice, such as instruction on talking to comatose patients, working with families and orientation information for nurses new to caring for these populations. Recommendations for improvement in these areas, as well as for future studies are discussed.
The nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NADH) is one of the main means for energy transfer in the mitochondrial respiratory chain and is an important parameter of cellular metabolism. NADH can be measured by its fluorescence and various fluorometric methods have been developed. In this study, a pulsed nitrogen laser combined with a fibreoptic set-up and photomultipliers was used to induce and measure NADH fluorescence on the cortical surface. The aim of the study was to assess the suitability of the laser induced spectroscopy for in vivo and on-line measurement of NADH in neuroscience and particularly for the assessment of neuronal metabolism. Changes in cerebral blood flow may affect fluorescence measurement. To assess the consequences of alterations in blood flow, the vasodilators glyceryl trinitrate and nimodipine and the vasoconstrictor endothelin-1 were applied. The induced hemodynamic changes were verified by colour Doppler sonography. The tests using the vasodilators showed that an increased blood flow in the brain increased not only NADH fluorescence but also the scattered light measured. The vasoconstrictor caused opposite effects. Insertion of a compensation method (subtraction of the scattered light) allowed the exclusion of hemodynamic artifacts. Effects of changes in the cellular metabolism were induced by sodium cyanide, an inhibitor of the mitochondrial respiratory chain, or by 2,4-dinitrophenol (2,4-DNP), an uncoupler of the oxidative phosphorylation. Sodium cyanide induced a transient increase of NADH fluorescence and 2,4-DNP decreased intracellular NADH fluorescence. Furthermore, the repercussions of cortical spreading depressions (CSD), a response of the brain to noxious stimuli, on cortical NADH fluorescence were determined. A single CSD decreased cortical NADH fluorescence for about 1 min, followed by a 5- to 10-min increase. The changes in NADH levels seem to correspond with the excitation and inhibition of neuronal metabolism, respectively. In summary, the measurement of NADH fluorescence using the laser technique allows the determination of changes in oxidative phosphorylation with high regional selectivity and time resolution.
In contrast to the classic concept of direct conversion of glutamine to gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA; via glutamate), this process may involve alpha-ketoglutarate as an intermediary metabolite and tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle activity. To obtain information about a possible differential role of these pathways for the synthesis of cytosolic and vesicular GABA, cultured neocortical neurons were incubated in medium containing [U-(13)C]glucose (0.5 mM) and in some cases unlabeled glutamine (0.5 mM). Subsequently, the cells were &quot;superfused&quot; for investigation of the effect of depolarization by 55 mM K+. To make sure that depolarization by 55 mM K+ released only vesicular GABA, tiagabin, a nontransportable inhibitor of the plasma membrane GABA carriers, was included in the medium to prevent GABA release from the cytoplasmic pool by reversal of the carriers. The importance of the TCA cycle for conversion of the carbon skeleton of glutamine to GABA was evident from the effect of glutamine on the labeling pattern of GABA. Percentage of labeling by GABA released into the depolarizing medium was the same as that in the corresponding cell extracts and was unaffected by the presence of glutamine during incubation. Despite the existence of multiple forms of glutamate decarboxylase, compartmentation of glutamate pools, and functionally different compartments within neurons, there appears to be full equilibration between the vesicular and cytosolic pools of GABA. However, during depolarization, the newly synthesized pool of GABA from glutamine does not rapidly equilibrate with the vesicular pool.
Withdrawal of trophic factors necessary for Schwann cell survival regulates Schwann cell number during development and after nerve injury. In the present study, we identified signaling pathways involved in Schwann cell survival by prosaposin, prosaptides (peptides incorporating the neurotrophic sequence of prosaposin), and insulinlike growth factor-I (IGF-I). When postnatal Schwann cells were placed in low serum medium, cells underwent abrupt shrinkage, condensation of nuclei occurred, and smooth rounded apoptotic bodies appeared. Dose-response studies of cell death, measured by lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) release, demonstrated that both prosaptide TX14(A) and IGF-I dose dependently reduced cell death in primary Schwann cells. Histone-associated DNA fragmentation enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, showed a 10- and 14-fold increase in apoptosis after 4 and 24 hr in low serum medium, respectively, that was reduced by prosaposin, TX14(A), or IGF-I. Phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) inhibitors, wortmannin or LY294002, blocked the survival effects of both TX14(A) and IGF-I. In contrast, only TX14(A) anti-apoptotic activity was blocked by the MEK inhbitor, PD98059, although TX14(A) and IGF-I are potent activators of extracellular regulated kinases in Schwann cells. Phosphorylation of the PI3K signaling target, Akt, was measured; TX14(A) and IGF-I increased Akt activity by 12-fold and 22-fold, respectively, that was inhibited by LY294002. These findings indicate that prosaposin and IGF-I use the PI3K/Akt pathway to induce survival of Schwann cells.

Infections caused by influenza A virus have been proposed to be associated with neuropsychiatric complications, the mechanisms of which remain to be unravelled. We here report that a neurotropic strain of influenza A virus (A/WSN/33) introduced into the olfactory bulbs of C57BL/6 (B6) mice, selectively attacks habenular, paraventricular thalamic, and brainstem monoaminergic neurons. In the habenular and paraventricular thalamic areas, infection was followed by an almost total loss of neurons within 12 days. In the brain stem monoaminergic areas, viral gene products were eliminated from neurons by 12 days in B6 wildtype mice, but remained for at least 35 days in immunodefective TAP1 (Transporter associated with Antigen Presentation 1) mutant mice. In conclusion, we show that influenza A virus infection in the brain selectively targets regions which have been implicated in neuropsychiatric disturbances, and that this virus can remain for a significant period of time in specific regions of the brain in immunodefective mice.
Venezuelan equine encephalitis virus (VEE) produces an acute infection in humans and induces a well-characterized cytopathic effect in neurons of the central nervous system (CNS). However, little is known about the role of glial cells in response to VEE infection of the CNS. Our results demonstrate that VEE is capable of a productive infection in primary astrocyte cultures and that this infection is cytotoxic. Further, there were significant differences in the growth kinetics comparing virulent and attenuated strains of VEE. Additionally, VEE infection of astrocyte cultures induced gene expression of two neuro-immune modulators, tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS). Assays for TNF-alpha protein and nitric oxide (NO) demonstrated high levels of TNF-alpha protein and low levels of NO in response to VEE infection of astrocytes. These observations suggest an important role of astrocytes in this virus-induced encephalitis, and that interactions between astrocytes, other glial cells, and neurons may be important in VEE pathogenesis. Such interactions, which could impact neuronal survival, may include loss of functional changes in astrocytes or, alternatively, their production of neurotoxic molecules.
The present work demonstrates quantitative autoradiography by using positron emission tomography tracers and storage phosphorimaging plates. The uptake and association of [(11)C]N-methyl-4-piperidylbenzilate was measured in rat brain tissue cryosections of various thicknesses. The signal increased with increasing section thickness, but only in 10-micrometer-thick sections did the binding reach the steady state during a 50-min observation time. This violation of the equilibrium condition, potentially combined with perfusion limitations, leads to erroneous increased binding-site density and decreased affinity in the 25- and 50-micrometer-thick sections. For better imaging of receptor distribution it is reasonable to use thicker sections. For quantitative analysis of receptor-binding parameters, the specific properties of ligands at different thicknesses of cryosections need to be considered. Evidence is provided that the nonselective muscarinic antagonist N-methyl-4-piperidylbenzilate binds preferentially to the M(4) subtype of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors.
The contribution of 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin; 5-HT) acting at 5-HT(3) receptors to fast excitatory postsynaptic potentials (fEPSPs) and the properties of 5-HT(3) receptors in the guinea pig small intestinal myenteric plexus were investigated using electrophysiological methods. In 11% of neurons studied in the acutely isolated myenteric plexus, ondansetron (1 microM) inhibited hexamethonium (100 microM)-resistant fEPSPs. 5-HT elicited an inward current in neurons maintained in primary culture. The peak current reached maximum in &lt;150 ms and desensitized with a double exponential time course (tau1 = 1.1 +/- 0.1 s; tau2 = 6.9 +/- 0.9 s). The whole-cell current/voltage relationship was linear, with a reversal potential of 2.7 +/- 1.5 mV. The rapidly activating and desensitizing current was completely blocked by ondansetron (1 microM) and partly inhibited by d-tubocurare (1 microM). The 5-HT(3)-receptor agonist, 2-methyl-5-HT (100 microM), caused a peak current that was 18% of the peak current caused by 5-HT in the same cells; 2-methyl-5-HT (1 microM) inhibited currents caused by 5-HT. 5-HT-activated single-channel currents in outside-out patches; this response was blocked by ondansetron. The single-channel conductance was 17 +/- 1 pS. The single-channel current/voltage relationship was linear between -110 and 70 mV and had a reversal potential near 0 mV. These data indicate that 5-HT contributes to fEPSPs in the myenteric plexus. The 5-HT(3) receptor expressed by guinea pig myenteric neurons has pharmacological and electrophysiological properties that distinguish it from 5-HT(3) receptors expressed by other autonomic neurons and neurons in the central nervous system.
The aim of the present study was to characterize the role played by different L-type Ca(2+) channel subunits in [Ca(2+)](i) increase induced by maitotoxin (MTX). In the presence of 5 mM extracellular K(+), MTX (0.01-0.5 ng/ml) induced a significant concentration-dependent increase in Fura-2-monitored [Ca(2+)](i) in single Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells expressing the alpha(1c) (CHOCalpha9 cells) or the alpha(1c)beta(3)alpha(2)delta (CHOCalpha9beta3alpha2/delta4 cells) subunits of voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels (VGCCs), whereas the effect was much reduced in wild-type CHO cells lacking VGCCs. In addition, MTX effect on CHOCalpha9, CHOCalpha9beta3alpha2/delta4, and GH(3) cells (0.01-0.1 ng/ml) was inhibited by the selective L-type Ca(2+) channel entry-blocker nimodipine (10 microM); a nimodipine-insensitive component was still present, particularly at high (&gt;1 ng/ml) toxin concentrations. In CHOCalpha9beta3alpha2/delta4 cells, depolarizing concentrations of extracellular K(+) (55 mM) reinforced the [Ca(2+)](i) increase induced by MTX (0.1 ng/ml), and this effect was prevented by nimodipine (10 microM). Finally, patch-clamp experiments in CHOCalpha9beta3alpha2/delta4 cells showed that low MTX concentrations (0.03 ng/ml) induced the occurrence of an inward current at -60 mV, which was completely prevented by Cd(2+) (100 microM) and by nimodipine (10 microM), whereas the same dihydropyridine concentration (10 microM) failed to prevent the electrophysiological effects of a higher toxin concentration (3 ng/ml). In conclusion, the results of the present study showed that MTX-induced [Ca(2+)](i) elevation involves two components: 1) an action on L-type VGCCs at the pore-forming alpha(1c) subunit level, which is responsible for the greatest rise of [Ca(2+)](i); and 2) a VGCC-independent mechanism that is present both in excitable and in nonexcitable cells and is responsible for a lower elevation of [Ca(2+)](i).
1. Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings were made from visually identified hippocampal interneurones in slices of rat brain tissue in vitro. Bath application of the bombesin-like neuropeptides gastrin-releasing peptide (GRP) or neuromedin B (NMB) produced a large membrane depolarization that was blocked by pre-incubation with the subtype 2 bombesin (BB2) receptor antagonist [D-Phe6, Des-Met14]bombesin-(6-14)ethyl amide. 2. The inward current elicited by NMB or GRP was unaffected by K+ channel blockade with external Ba2+ or by replacement of potassium gluconate in the electrode solution with caesium acetate. 3. Replacement of external NaCl with Tris-HCl significantly reduced the magnitude of the GRP-induced current at -60 mV. In contrast, replacement of external NaCl with LiCl had no effect on the magnitude of this current. 4. Photorelease of caged GTPgammaS inside neurones irreversibly potentiated the GRP-induced current at -60 mV. Similarly, bath application of the phospholipase C (PLC) inhibitor U-73122 significantly reduced the size of the inward current induced by GRP. 5. Reverse transcription followed by the polymerase chain reaction using cytoplasm from single hippocampal interneurones demonstrated the expression of BB2 receptor mRNA together with glutamate decarboxylase (GAD67). 6. Although bath application of GRP or NMB had little or no effect on the resting membrane properties of CA1 pyramidal cells per se, these neuropeptides produced a dramatic increase in the number and amplitude of miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents in these cells in a TTX-sensitive manner.
Agrammatic speech is characterized by the omission and substitution of grammatical morphemes. Some recent papers suggest that certain patterns of omission and substitution are ruled by linguistic, that is, syntactic processes (e.g., Hagiwara, 1995; Friedmann &amp; Grodzinsky, 1997; Bastiaanse &amp; Van Zonneveld, 1998). In the present paper, the omission pattern of case markers in the spontaneous speech of Dutch and German speakers with agrammatic aphasia is analyzed within the framework of Chomsky's (1986) case theory, which says that every phonetically realized NP must receive (abstract) case. The inflected verb (I) assigns nominative case to the subject in the sentence, and the verb (V) assigns dative and accusative case to the indirect and direct object, respectively. This, in combination with the knowledge that verbs and verb inflections are notoriously difficult for speakers with agrammatism, served as the basis for this study. We hypothesize that, if no case assigner is produced, the noun will receive nominative case by default or the case marking morpheme (i.e., the determiner) will be omitted. This hypothesis has been tested and was supported by the data.

Telomerase is a ribonucleoprotein complex with reverse-transcriptase activity responsible for telomere reconstitution. High telomerase activity was found in cancer cells, but not in differentiated homologous nonmalignant tissues. We demonstrated previously that the disappearance of telomerase activity is a reliable marker of tumor cell killing in human cancer cell lines. We have investigated the possibility of evaluating chemosensitivity of neoplastic cells of different origin [ovary, lung, breast, gastrointestinal, skin (melanoma)] obtained from cancer patients, by measuring residual telomerase activity after drug treatment in vitro. Using the classical telomeric repeat amplification protocol (&quot;TRAP&quot;) assay based on polymerase chain reaction, we examined telomerase activity of untreated or drug-treated tumor cell suspensions, derived from the processing of surgical specimens. Feasibility and reproducibility of the assay were evaluated according to various parameters, including drug concentration, time of in vitro culture, and type of tumor. The results indicated that the assay is highly sensitive and reproducible, and can be performed using surgical specimens in a reasonable percentage of cases, ranging from 40% (breast cancer) to 100% (ovarian cancer). Moreover, the assay provides comparable results using a wide range of tumor cells, and the presence of normal cells does not interfere with the results. Prolonged tumor cell culture is not required because the assay can be completed within 24 to 72 hours after sample collection. In conclusion, the present investigation provides the technical bases for future studies to evaluate whether this assay would be able to predict patient's response to antitumor agents.
Immigrants have higher rates of suicidal behavior than those in their countries of origin and their new countries. Immigration is a stressful life event which may lead to depression and suicidal behavior. Depressive disorders and suicidal behavior have a firm neurobiological and genetic basis. The author suggests that most immigrants who exhibit suicidal behavior in the new country had suicidal tendencies, and/or some degree of depression, and/or certain maladaptive personality traits in their countries of origin. The paper emphasizes the role of genetic and neurobiological factors in the human response to stressful events.
Scanning microphotolysis (SCAMP) is a combination of fluorescence microphotolysis and confocal laser scanning microscopy. A laser scanning microscope is equipped with an optical switch able to modulate the power or/and wavelength of the laser beam in less than a microsecond while a dedicated computer program is employed to precisely coordinate scanning process and laser beam modulation. By these means it becomes possible to vary the power or/and wavelength of the laser beam during scanning at a precision of one resolution element. Patterns of almost arbitrary design can be written into the object by photolysis, e.g., photobleaching or photoactivation. The dissipation of the photolysis pattern by diffusion or other types of molecular transport can be followed at confocal resolution and used to characterize the transport process. SCAMP can be employed in conjunction with single-photon or multiphoton excitation. Furthermore, it can be easily installed on virtually any confocal laser scanning microscope. We summarize at first the conceptual and practical basis of SCAMP. Then, two novel applications are discussed: (i) measurements of translational diffusion coefficients in truly three-dimensional systems at diffraction-limited resolution, and (ii) optical recording of single transporters in membrane patches.
Direct, two-dimensional counting or measuring of cells as they appear in histological sections is subject to a number of artifacts that can lead to erroneous conclusions about changes in cellular populations. Numerous correction procedures devised to compensate for these artifacts are collectively termed model-based stereology due to their reliance on a model of cell geometry for correction formulas. These corrections are valid only to the degree that the geometric model reflects cellular morphology. In addition, there are requirements for population homogeneity that are often not met in biological material. The development of design-based stereology provides a way to directly count or measure cells in three dimensions, avoiding errors (biases) and the need for assumptions regarding cell size, shape, and orientation to be validated. On this basis, these procedures are described as unbiased stereology. The recent commercial availability of semiautomated stereology systems has substantially reduced the effort and experimenter error (bias) associated with the use of design-based stereology. The optical resolution of confocal microscopy and the ability to collect registered series of focal planes is ideally suited for the three-dimensional sampling of design-based stereology. Unfortunately, stereological procedures are not available in any confocal microscope software and it is up to the user to implement these procedures. Strategies and illustrations of approaches to implementing stereological procedures on a confocal microscope are presented. Where possible, particular design issues are discussed and solutions suggested. With user requests, future generations of confocal software may integrate collection of confocal images with the implementation of design-based stereology.
The laser scanning confocal microscope has enormous potential in many fields of biology. Currently there is a subjective nature in the assessment of a confocal microscope's performance by primarily evaluating the system with a specific test slide provided by the user's laboratory. To achieve better performance from the equipment, it is necessary to run a series of tests to ensure that the optical machine is functioning properly. We have devised these methods on the Leica TCS-SP and TCS-4D systems. Tests measuring field illumination, lens clarity, laser power output, dichroic functioning, spectral alignment, axial resolution, laser power stability, machine performance, and system noise were derived to test the Leica laser scanning confocal microscopy system. These tests should be applicable to other manufacturers' systems as well. The relationship between photomultiplier tube (PMT) voltage, laser power, and averaging using a 10-microm-diameter test bead has shown that the noise (coefficient of variation of bead intensity, CV) in an image increases as the PMT increases. Therefore increasing the PMT setting results in increased noise. For ideal image quality, it appears that it is better to decrease the PMT setting and increase laser power, as noise generated by high PMT settings will reduce the image quality far more than the bleaching caused by higher laser power. Averaging can be used to improve the image at high PMT values, provided the sample is not bleached by repeated passes of the laser.
Confocal laser scanning microscopy now has so many functions and applications that choosing a new multiuser confocal laser microscopy system can be a daunting task, particularly for a first-time buyer and new users of confocal microscopy. How does one determine which features are most appropriate for any particular laboratory, application, or imaging environment? Each confocal microscopy system has its own individual advantages and limitations, which ultimately defines its market niche. Here, we describe the features that differentiate the four confocal microscopy systems we assessed. The decisive factors in choosing a confocal microscopy system for our anatomical laboratory were user-friendly software for on-line acquisition and off-line processing; the working distances of objective lenses; applicability for a multiuser environment; interactions with company representatives; and turnaround times for questions, service, and accessories.
B-50 (GAP-43) is a neural, membrane-associated protein that has been implicated in neurite outgrowth and guidance. Following stable transfection of Rat1 fibroblasts with B-50 cDNA we observed a dispersed distribution of B-50 immunoreactivity in flattened resting cells. In contrast, motile cells exhibited high concentrations of B-50 at the leading edge of ruffling membranes, coinciding with actin polymerization. Time-lapse studies on Rat1 fibroblasts transiently transfected with B-50/EGFP revealed that large vesicles originated from the ruffling membranes. These large vesicles (pinocytes) were found positive for Thy-1, a GPI-anchored protein, but negative for rab-5, an early endosome marker. In primary hippocampal neurons B-50 also colocalized completely with the raft marker Thy-1. Antibody-mediated cross-linking of Thy-1 in hippocampal neurons resulted in a redistribution of the intracellular protein B-50 to Thy-1-immunopositive membrane patches, whereas syntaxin was mainly excluded from the patches, showing that B-50 is associated with rafts. Academic Press.
Ascidians have been used extensively as model animals for experimental embryology. We report here the results of a pilot study with the aim of developing genetic methods for the ascidian Ciona savignyi. The chemical mutagen N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea (ENU) was used to induce point mutations. F1 animals, produced by using sperm from ENU-treated animals to fertilize untreated eggs, were grown to reproductive age. Sperm and eggs collected from the hermaphrodite F1 adults were used to generate self-fertilized F2 broods, which were then screened for recessive, zygotically acting mutations. Animals carrying potential mutations were outcrossed to wild type to test for the heritability of the phenotypes. We report on a number of mutants isolated using this method, including several with abnormalities in tail and notochord development.
B-50 (GAP-43) is an axonal, plasma membrane-associated protein involved in growth cone morphology and function. We have conducted immunocytochemical, electron microscopic, and time-lapse experiments to visualize morphological consequences of local accumulations of B-50 at the plasma membrane of B-50-transfected PC-B2 cells, a clonal PC12 cell line with very low expression of endogenous B-50. The distribution of the transfected B-50 within these cells was inhomogeneous. At sites where the B-50 concentration was locally increased up to twofold, numerous filopodia were present in growth cone-like, substrate-attached regions. When local B-50 concentrations were even higher (up to 6.2-fold), blebs were formed, often containing vesicular structures, heavily decorated with B-50 immunoreactivity. Double labeling with f-actin binding phalloidin revealed that local B-50 accumulations were accompanied by increased actin filament concentrations. Colocalization of B-50 with actin filaments was prominent in filopodia, but was virtually absent in blebs, suggesting a disconnection of the bleb plasma membrane from the actin cytoskeleton. We conclude that B-50 evokes distinct effects on cell-surface activity in PC12 cells depending on its local concentration.
A growing body of evidence indicates that neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs), in addition to promoting fast cholinergic transmission, may modulate other neuronal activities within the central nervous system (CNS). In particular, the alpha7 nAChR is highly permeable to Ca2+ and may serve a distinct role in regulating neuronal plasticity. By elevating intracellular Ca2+ levels in discrete neuronal locations, these ligand-gated ion channels may influence numerous physiological processes in developing and adult CNS. In this article, we review evidence that both pre- and postsynaptic alpha7 nAChRs modulate transmitter release in the brain and periphery through Ca2+-dependent mechanisms. The possible role of alpha7 nAChRs in regulating neuronal growth and differentiation in developing CNS is also evaluated. We consider an interaction between cholinergic and glutamatergic transmission and propose a hypothesis on the possible coregulation of intracellular Ca2+ by N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors and alpha7 nAChRs. Finally, the clinical significance of alterations in the normal function of alpha7 nAChRs is discussed as it pertains to prenatal nicotine exposure, schizophrenia, and epilepsy.
Kainate receptors are a subtype of ionotropic glutamate receptors, permeable to cations and thus expected to have an excitatory depolarizing action on neurons. However, kainate receptor activation inhibits gamma-aminobutyric acid release in the hippocampus through activation of protein kinase C in a pertussis toxin-dependent manner, suggesting a coupling of kainate receptors to G proteins. Thus, we directly investigated the G protein coupling of kainate receptors in the rat hippocampus by using a selective kainate receptor agonist, [(3)H](2S,4R)-4-methylglutamate ([(3)H]MGA). [(3)H]MGA bound to a single site to hippocampal membranes with a K(D) value of 32 nM and a B(max) value of 1024 fmol/mg protein. This binding likely represents kainate receptors because it was displaced by domoate (K(i) = 4 nM), kainate (K(i) = 11 nM), and 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (K(i) = 1.4 microM), but not by alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-propionate (K(i) &gt; 10 microM), (RS)-alpha-methyl-4-phosphonophenylglycine (K(i) &gt; 10 microM), or (+/-)-1-aminocyclopentane-trans-1,3-dicarboxylic acid (K(i) &gt; 10 microM). Guanylylimidodiphosphate (30 microM), which uncouples all G protein-coupled receptors, shifted to the right the saturation curve of [(3)H]MGA (K(D) = 133 nM). This effect was mimicked by pretreatment of hippocampal membranes with modifiers of G(i)/G(o) proteins [30 microM N-ethylmaleimide (K(D) = 98 nM) or 25 microgram/ml pertussis toxin (K(D) = 95 nM)] but not by a modifier of G(s) proteins [50 microgram/ml cholera toxin (K(D) = 32 nM)]. Treatment of solubilized hippocampal membranes with pertussis toxin (25 microgram/ml) decreased [(3)H]MGA affinity (K(D) = 105-113 nM), which was recovered by reconstitution of these pretreated solubilized hippocampal membranes with G(i)/G(o) proteins (K(D) = 41-76 nM). These results indicate that hippocampal kainate receptors are coupled to G(i)/G(o) proteins.
Reliable biological markers in body fluids for disease activity and progression are important for our understanding of the pathophysiology and therapeutic decisions in various subtypes of multiple sclerosis. Sampling from body fluids such as cerebrospinal fluid, blood, and urine constitutes the problem that the local immuno-inflammatory process takes place in the central nervous system whereas the disease activity is only to some extent reflected in the systemic immune compartment. Promising results have been obtained in studies of adhesion molecules, pro-inflammatory cytokines, co-stimulatory molecules and neopterin as markers of disease activity in relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis. However, these results apply to groups of patients but not necessarily to individual patients. Currently no single body fluid marker is sufficiently correlated to disease activity to be used in the individual patient in monitoring disease activity, progression, or therapeutic effects.
Several magnetic resonance (MR) techniques have proved to be sensitive enough to detect the subtle pathological changes that post-mortem studies showed to occur in the normal-appearing white matter (NAWM) from patients with multiple sclerosis (MS). Although these abnormalities can be detected in other neurological conditions, they seem to be more frequent and diffuse in MS. However, the contribution of NAWM changes to the diagnosis is still unclear. Their nature is also unknown and perhaps differs in different phases and clinical manifestations of the disease. Nevertheless, the extent and severity of NAWM damage seems to be relevant in causing disability and influencing the clinical evolution in MS patients. This review will summarize the present knowledge about MR-detected NAWM changes in MS and their relevance to the diagnosis and the understanding of disease evolution.
A postal survey showed that the majority of 49 leading international neurologists involved with multiple sclerosis research felt that currently existing outcome measures for this illness were inadequate, and that there was a need for a new measure which should be patient orientated, multidimensional, and not biased towards any particular disability. The Guy's Neurological Disability Scale (GNDS) was subsequently devised as a simple and user-friendly clinical disability scale capable of embracing the whole range of disabilities which could be encountered in the course of multiple sclerosis. It has 12 separate categories which include cognition, mood, vision, speech, swallowing, upper limb function, lower limb function, bladder function, bowel function, sexual function, fatigue, and 'others'. The GNDS was found to be acceptable to neurologists and patients, reliable, responsive, and valid as a measure of disability. The scale was also found to be valid when applied by non-neurologists, over the phone, or via a postal questionnaire.
Lateral femoral cutaneous (LFC) neuropathy was diagnosed in a woman who developed pain and paresthesias in the right thigh 6 days after abdominal hysterectomy by a suprapubic approach. After surgery, the patient slept in the fetal position to control the postoperative suprapubic pain. The LFC neuropathy improved with therapy including avoidance of hip flexion during sleep. Prolonged postoperative hip flexion to relieve the abdominal incisional pain provides an explanation for LFC neuropathy after abdominal surgery when the onset of symptoms is delayed.
Ocular growth and refraction are regulated by visual processing in the retina. We identified candidate regulatory neurons by immunocytochemistry for immediate-early gene products, ZENK (zif268, Egr-1) and Fos, after appropriate visual stimulation. ZENK synthesis was enhanced by conditions that suppress ocular elongation (plus defocus, termination of form deprivation) and suppressed by conditions that enhance ocular elongation (minus defocus, form deprivation), particularly in glucagon-containing amacrine cells. Fos synthesis was enhanced by termination of visual deprivation, but not by defocus and not in glucagon-containing amacrine cells. We conclude that glucagon-containing amacrine cells respond differentially to the sign of defocus and may mediate lens-induced changes in ocular growth and refraction.
Each year the meeting of the American Neuroscience Society attracts over 20,000 members, reflecting the explosion of interest in this field that has occurred over the past few decades. Researchers from many disciplines are focusing their skills on the investigation of every aspect of nervous systems, and neuroscience now encompasses the entire range of endeavour from the study of the single molecules that make up neural membranes to the non-invasive observation of neural function in animals behaving in their natural environments. Advances over the past three decades in our understanding of nervous systems are impressive and come from a multifaceted approach to the study of both vertebrate and invertebrate animals. An almost unexpected by-product of the parallel investigation of vertebrate and invertebrate nervous systems that is explored in this article is the emergent view of an intricate web of evolutionary homology and convergence exhibited in the structure and function of the nervous systems of these two large, paraphyletic groups of animals.
GABA-interneurons immunoreactive (IR) for the calcium-binding protein parvalbumin are lost during the early stages of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) and diminution in their number may partially account for the neurological disturbances manifested in patients suffering from this condition. The disease is characterized by a transformation of the prion protein, PrP(c)-a host-coded sialoglycoprotein-to its protease-resistant and putatively pathological form, PrP(CJD). And since this conversion is likely to take place at the cell surface, we were curious to know whether the &quot;perineuronal net&quot;-a characteristic accumulation of extracellular matrix in intimate contact with the surface of parvalbumin-IR neurons-is implicated in the early disappearance of the mantled cells. Using various lectins and antibodies as markers for the perineuronal net in brains of 21 CJD victims, we observed that this meshwork of extracellular matrix molecules is lost before the embraced parvalbumin-IR neurons themselves disappear. Hence, an interaction of PrP(c) and/or PrP(CJD) with components of the extracellular matrix around this subpopulation of nerve cells precipitates a sequence of as yet unknown events which culminates in the replacement of perineuronal nets by deposits of insoluble PrP(CJD). This change in the environment of the GABA-interneurons IR for parvalbumin may ultimately provoke their death.
The effect of ethanol on responses to nicotine from rat cerebellar Purkinje neurons was investigated using extracellular single-unit recording. Systemic administration of ethanol initially enhanced the nicotine-induced inhibition from 50% of the Purkinje neurons. However, irrespective of whether there was an initial enhancement, systemic administration of ethanol antagonized the response to nicotine from the majority of Purkinje neurons. When varying ethanol concentrations were electro-osmotically applied to this neuronal cell type, the responses to nicotine (6/8) were enhanced when a low concentration of ethanol (40 mM) was in the pipette, whereas the majority of nicotine responses (10/11) were antagonized when a higher concentration of ethanol (160 mM) was applied to Purkinje neurons. Thus, the concentration of ethanol presented to the neuron seemed to explain the biphasic consequence of systemically administered ethanol on responses to nicotine. In order to determine whether ethanol affected a specific nACh receptor subtype containing the alpha-7 subunit, it was initially established that the nicotinic antagonists, alpha-bungarotoxin (alpha-BTX) and methyllycaconitine (MLA), which are associated with this subunit, had identical actions on responses to nicotine from Purkinje neurons. When MLA was tested against responses to nicotine from this cell type, MLA antagonized the response to nicotine from 45% (9/20) of the neurons tested. In a direct comparison of the action of ethanol to inhibit responses to nicotine with the action of MLA on the same Purkinje neuron, ethanol inhibited responses to nicotine on all neurons sensitive to MLA. However, ethanol also affected nicotine-induced neural changes from some Purkinje neurons not sensitive to MLA antagonism of nicotine. These data support the supposition that ethanol affects a nACh receptor subtype which has an alpha-7 subunit as well as other nACh receptor subtypes without this specific subunit.
We used the reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) to amplify choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) mRNA fragments from two temperature-sensitive alleles of Drosophila melanogaster, Cha(ts1) and Cha(ts2). Single base substitutions in the mutants (T1614A in Cha(ts1) and G1596A in Cha(ts2)) would result in amino acid changes for ChAT protein (Met403Lys in Ch(ts1) and Arg397His in Cha(ts2)). These base substitutions were confirmed in mRNA extracted from homozygous mutants using a Single Nucleotide Primer Extension assay (SNuPE) and are sufficient to produce thermolabile enzyme. Our results indicate that these temperature-sensitive mutants are point mutations in the structural gene for ChAT. Using a quantitative SNuPE assay we also show that similar levels of Cha(ts) and wild type transcripts are present in heterozygous flies (Cha(ts1)/+ and Cha(Ts2)/+) at both restrictive and permissive temperatures. This contrasts with RNase protection assays of ChAT mRNA in homozygous mutant animals where the levels of mutant mRNA decrease at restrictive temperature.
High-affinity L-glutamate (GLU) transport is an important regulator of excitatory amino acid (EAA) concentrations in brain extracellular fluid and may play a key role in excitatory synaptic transmission. In view of evidence that EAA transporters (EAAT) are heterogenous and contain consensus sites for phosphorylation, this investigation was undertaken to contrast the effects of transporter phosphorylation in fractions derived from glia and neurons (synaptosomes) of the adult rat forebrain. Treatment with phorbol-12,13-dibutyrate (PDBu), an activator of protein kinase C (PKC), increased the maximal rate of GLU transport in glial plasmalemmal vesicles by greater than 50 percent (237+/-18 vs. 365+/-27 pmol/mg protein/90s, p &lt; 0.05) but caused no change in synaptosomes. The effect by PDBu was concentration and time-dependent and was inhibited completely by the PKC inhibitor calphostin C. Inhibition of serine-threonine phosphoprotein phosphatases with okadaic acid produced similar effects which were not additive with PDBu. Together, these results demonstrate that glial EAAT can be regulated by multiple phosphorylation processes.
Recent studies have reinforced the view that the lateral hypothalamic area (LHA) regulates food intake and body weight. We identified leptin-sensitive neurons in the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus (Arc) that innervate the LHA using retrograde tracing with leptin administration. We found that retrogradely labeled cells in the Arc contained neuropeptide Y (NPY) mRNA or proopiomelanocortin (POMC) mRNA. Following leptin administration, NPY cells in the Arc did not express Fos but expressed suppressor of cytokine signaling-3 (SOCS-3) mRNA. In contrast, leptin induced both Fos and SOCS-3 expression in POMC neurons, many of which also innervated the LHA. These findings suggest that leptin directly and differentially engages NPY and POMC neurons that project to the LHA, linking circulating leptin and neurons that regulate feeding behavior and body weight homeostasis.
To determine the physiological mechanisms underlying the enhancement of performance by attention, we examined how attention affects the ability of isolated neurons to discriminate orientation by investigating the reliability of responses with and without attention. Recording from 262 neurons in cortical area V4 while two rhesus macaques did a delayed match-to-sample task with oriented stimuli, we found that attention did not produce detectable changes in the variability of neuronal responses but did improve the orientation discriminability of the neurons. We also found that attention did not change the relationship between burst rate and response rate. Our results are consistent with the idea that attention selects groups of neurons for a multiplicative enhancement in response strength.

In the present study, the effects of morphine exposure in utero on social behavior in juvenile male rats was investigated. Pinning, a measure for play behavior, and social grooming of the offspring were measured at postnatal day 21. The subjects were offspring of Wistar rat dams given sc. injections of 1 or 10 mg/kg body weight morphine HCl daily from gestational days 8 (GD8)-GD 21 and control dams injected daily with saline. Pinning and social grooming of the morphine-treated offspring were significantly elevated compared to saline controls. The doses of morphine used neither affected the gestation of pregnant mother rats nor sensorimotor development of the juvenile rats. Prenatal exposure to morphine of 10 mg/kg daily increased both pinning and social grooming, prenatal exposure to a lower dose of 1 mg/kg increased pinning behavior but not social grooming in the offspring. To study the importance of the gestational period, offspring of dams given 10 mg/kg body weight morphine HCl from GD8-GD15 and saline from GD16-parturition or morphine from GD16-parturition and saline from GD8-GD15 was tested. Pinning was only increased when morphine exposure occurred during the third week of gestation, social grooming was increased when morphine exposure had been in the second week of gestation. Subcutaneous administration of 1 mg/kg naltrexone 1 h before the test significantly decreased play behavior in control rats, but not in animals prenatally exposed to morphine. From these experiments we conclude that the long term effect of in utero exposure to morphine on play behavior is established by affecting the endogenous opioid system.
Phylogenetically, the serotonergic system is one of the oldest transmitter systems in the brain. Combining a complex and widespread innervation of most cortical and subcortical structures, with over a dozen receptor subtypes, there is a diversity of signaling opportunities and functional roles that explain the association of serotonin with many different types of psychopathological conditions. The role of the serotonergic system in mood disorders and in the predisposition for suicidal behavior are reviewed in this paper. Effects on the serotonergic system underlie the antidepressant action of many types of medications and must be integrated into a neurobiological model of mood disorders.

Knockout of the 5-HT1B gene in mice results in increased aggression, as well as alcohol and cocaine consumption. Given the clinical association of aggression, suicide, alcoholism, and substance abuse, we studied relationship of psychopathology to the human 5-HT1B receptor gene (N = 178) and postmortem human 5-HT1B receptor binding (N = 96) in the brain. The sample comprised: 71 suicide victims, 107 nonsuicides, 45 with a history of major depression and 79 without, 64 with a history of a alcoholism or substance abuse and 60 without, as well as 36 with a history of pathological aggression and 42 without. Single-strand conformational polymorphism (SSCP) analysis and DNA sequencing techniques were used to screen the coding region of the human 5-HT1B receptor gene in genomic DNA isolated from postmortem human brain tissue. Two common polymorphisms were identified in the 5-HT1B receptor gene, involving a silent C to T substitution at nucleotide 129 and a silent G to C substitution at nucleotide 861 of the coding region. These polymorphisms were found with the same frequency in the suicide and the nonsuicide groups and in those with and without a history of major depression, alcoholism, or pathological aggression. The binding indices (Bmax and KD of the 5-HT1B receptor in prefrontal cortex also did not differ in suicides and controls, major depression, alcoholism, and cases with a history of pathological aggression. The C129 or G861 allele had 20% fewer 5-HT1B receptor compared to the 129T or 861C allele. We did not identify a relationship between suicide, major depression, alcoholism, or pathological aggression with 5-HT1B receptor binding indices or genotype.
To study possible effects of physical training on the expression of neurotrophic factors and their receptors in the brain, we used a rat strain (spontaneously hypertensive rat, SHR), known to spontaneously run up to 20 km/night. We show that such long-distance running affects the brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and TrkB system in hippocampus, and in particular that abrupt deprivation of habitual running leads to long-lasting decreases of BDNF/TrkB expression in hippocampus. Quantitative in situ hybridization demonstrates that running increases the expression of mRNA coding for BDNF and its high affinity receptor TrkB in hippocampus in a running length dependent manner. In addition, we show that an abrupt interruption of prolonged spontaneous exercise decrease expression of mRNA encoding BDNF and TrkB in certain hippocampal areas and that this decrease lasts at least 10 days. This down-regulation was most prominent in medial cornu ammonis 3 (CA3M). Several other trophic factors and receptors were investigated, including NGF, NT3, GDNF, trkC and p75. For these other probes investigated, no robust changes in mRNA expression were noted. Areas examined included sensorimotor cortex and hippocampus. For RET, p75, NT3, TrkB and BDNF we also examined the spinal cord without detecting any robust changes. We conclude that spontaneous running as well as its abrupt termination, leads to area-specific and trophic factor-specific changes in hippocampus.
Despite the fact that locomotion may differ widely in mammals, common principles of kinematic control are at work. These reflect common mechanical and neural constraints. The former are related to the need to maintain balance and to limit energy expenditure. The latter are related to the organization of the central pattern-generating networks.
Injury to peripheral nerves can result in severe and intractable neuropathic pain, and in some cases the symptoms are sympathetically maintained. In recent years much effort has been put into elucidating the anatomical nature of nerve injury-induced sympathetic-sensory coupling. The demonstration of sympathetic sprouting into dorsal root ganglia (DRG) of nerve-injured rats has led to the suggestion that this phenomenon might underlie sympathetically-maintained pain. As a result, several studies have been undertaken to determine what factor or factors are responsible for the sprouting, and for the formation of abnormal sympathetic terminal arborizations or 'baskets' around some DRG neurons. In this review we examine in particular the roles of nerve growth factor (NGF) and the cytokines leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) and interleukin-6 (IL-6), as these have all been shown to contribute to sympathetic sprouting. We also stress the role of satellite cells within axotomized DRG, as these have been shown to express not only neurotrophin mRNA, but also the low-affinity neurotrophin receptor p75. We propose a mechanism for sympathetic sprouting in the DRG involving; (i) the activation of satellite cells on the DRG by a factor such as LIF or IL-6, and (ii) the generation of a sympathetic axon-guiding gradient by p75-bound neurotrophins on the activated satellite cells. We also highlight the possibility that a sympathetic sprouting signal may be derived from the periphery, as NGF, LIF and IL-6 are all produced as a result of Wallerian degeneration, and can be retrograde transported to the DRG. The possible relevance of sympathetic sprouting in the DRG to neuropathic pain is also discussed.
This essay is an attempt to clarify the construct of unpleasantness in the context of the psychophysics of pain. The first critical point is that one aspect of unpleasantness is tightly coupled to stimulus intensity and is therefore a sensory discrimination. Pain has this quality, but so do other somatic sensations such as itch and dysesthesias that are not recognized as painful by most people. A corollary of this is that pain must have a quality other than unpleasantness that allows it to be unequivocally identified. I use the term algosity for that quality. In addition to stimulus bound (primary) unpleasantness, there is an unpleasant experience that reflects a higher level process which has a highly variable relationship to stimulus intensity and is largely determined by memories and contextual features. I have termed this experience secondary unpleasantness. I suggest that the sensory-discriminative/affective-motivational dichotomy has outlived its usefulness and is currently more of an impediment than a guide to neurobiological explanations of pain. In order to increase our understanding of pain we need psychophysical tools designed specifically to differentiate primary unpleasantness from both algosity and secondary unpleasantness. These tools can then be used to determine the neural mechanisms of pain.
Morphologic changes, such as cell loss or sprouting after nerve lesions, presumably have an important bearing on chronic pain states. Accordingly, unbiased estimates of such things as cell or synapse numbers are necessary to evaluate these difficulties. Basic principles for obtaining such estimates are in dispute, however, so the present paper is an essay on these techniques with the aim of making it easier for nondevotees of these methods to make accurate assessments when such data are reported. The basic points are that, with the exception of serial reconstructions, which are very inefficient, older techniques to determine cell and synapse numbers from histological sections make geometric assumptions that are almost never verified or quantified. Accordingly, the geometrical biases that arise from these assumptions are not assessed. Fortunately, recent stereological techniques do not depend on these assumptions and so are free from the above biases. As such, these represent a technological advance. It must be remembered, however, that all methods are subject to potential observational, methodological and sampling biases.
Anatomical data indicate that the rat uterine horn is innervated primarily by afferent fibers in the hypogastric nerves, suggesting that hypogastric neurectomy, but not pelvic or pudendal neurectomy, should eliminate behavioral responses to uterine horn stimulation. To test this hypothesis, detection and escape responses of rats to different volumes of uterine horn distention (via an indwelling intrauterine balloon) were compared before and after bilateral hypogastric (n = 9), sham-hypogastric (n = 3), pelvic (n = 3), or pudendal (n = 2) neurectomies. As predicted, sham-hypogastric, pelvic, and pudendal neurectomies had no effect on the rats' responses. However, although hypogastric neurectomy completely eliminated responses in five rats whose postmortem evaluation revealed no signs that the uterine balloons had evoked any pelvic pathophysiology, the neurectomy had no effect on the responses of an additional four rats. Postmortem evaluation of these rats revealed gross signs of severe pathology in the vicinity of the balloon in two rats, and evidence that the balloon had shifted caudally so that it was stimulating the cervix rather than the uterine horn in a third. In the fourth rat, pathophysiology had been deliberately induced by the prior implantation of a small pellet that released approximately 1 microg/day of prostaglandin PF2alpha over the uterine horn. Similar findings have been reported in clinical studies on the efficacy of hypogastric ('presacral') neurectomy for dysmenorrhea. Together, the findings support the hypothesis that the major source of afferent innervation of the uterine horn in healthy rats and women is the hypogastric nerve but that the situation changes under conditions of pelvic pathology. Such changes could include additional activation of afferent fibers in nerves that supply other pelvic organs, activation by the uterine pathophysiology of latent uterine innervation from afferent fibers in the pelvic, vagus or ovarian plexus nerves, or some form of central sensitization.
Response properties of peripheral afferent fibers supplying the vagina and uterus of the rat vary with estrous stage (Robbins A, Berkley KJ, Sato Y. Estrous cycle variation of afferent fibers supplying reproductive organs in the female rat. Brain Res 1992,596:353-356), suggesting that behavioral sensitivity to vaginal and uterine stimulation might similarly vary. To test this hypothesis, detection and escape responses of 12 rats to different volumes of distention of the vaginal canal or uterine horn (six rats each) were compared during each of the four estrous stages, proestrus (P), estrus (E), metestrus (M), and diestrus (D), using previously-published behavioral techniques (Berkley KJ, Wood E, Scofield SL, Little M. Behavioral responses to uterine or vaginal distention in the rat. Pain 1995;61:121-131). Estrous variations in vaginal or uterine tone (pressure-volume functions) were also measured in the same rats. Vaginal canal: escape response percentages increased significantly as vaginal distention volume increased, but neither escape nor detection responses varied with estrous stage. Vaginal tone, however, was greater in P and E than in M and D, with the greatest tone in E and the least in D. When escape responses to different pressures were analyzed, it was found that escape response percentages to the same vaginal pressure were lower during P and E than during M and D. One outcome of these estrous influences would be that a vaginal stimulus of a given volume (such as an erect penis) would exert higher pressures during P and E (i.e. the penis would be held within the vaginal canal more firmly) than during M and D, but would be less likely during P and E to provoke escape responses. This modification of nociceptive sensitivity has obvious reproductive advantages, because P and E constitute the rat's fertile period. Uterine horn: escape response percentages increased significantly as uterine distention volume increased only during M and D, with no differences between them. Detection responses also occurred only during M and D. Similarly, uterine tone was significantly greater in M and D than in P and E, with the greatest tone occurring during M and the least during P. Although these changes in uterine tone were opposite to those of the vaginal canal, escape response percentages to the same uterine pressures were, in a manner similar to vaginal pressures, lower during P and E than during M and D. The functional significance of these variations for the uterus is unclear, but does suggest that, under pathophysiological conditions, stimulation of the uterine horn, as well as the vaginal canal, would be more likely to provoke escape behaviors in M and D than in P and E. A similar increased sensitivity in rats during M and D to noxious stimulation of other pelvic organs has been observed by others. This situation resembles that in women, for whom many visceral pain conditions are exacerbated during a comparable part of their ovarian cycle, i.e. perimenstrually.
The association between sudden death and cervicomedullary compression in infants with achondroplasia has been well described. Prospective clinical and imaging evaluations have been recommended to identify those infants with achondroplasia who are at risk of dying suddenly from respiratory arrest secondary to unrecognized cervicomedullary compression. Since 1988, we have prospectively evaluated 11 infants (average age 13 weeks) with achondroplasia who were asymptomatic for cervicomedullary compression on initial clinical evaluation. Craniocervical magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) findings included narrowing of the foramen magnum, effacement of the subarachnoid spaces at the cervicomedullary junction, abnormal intrinsic cord signal intensity and mild to moderate ventriculomegaly. Two patients with severe cord compression underwent immediate decompression. Two patients developed opisthotonic posturing within 3 months of evaluation and underwent foramen magnum decompression, including suboccipital craniectomy and atlantal laminectomy. Surgery in all cases revealed forward extension of the squamous portion of the occipital bone, thickened posterior rim of the foramen magnum and a dense fibrotic epidural band. There were no complications from surgery. Seven patients did not require surgery and were followed closely. All 11 patients remain asymptomatic at follow-up (mean 4.6 years; range 16 months to 7.3 years), and no patient has required a diversionary shunt procedure. The results of this prospective study confirm that early clinical and MRI evaluations are necessary to determine whether infants with achondroplasia have cervicomedullary compression. With early recognition, an immediate decompression can be performed safely to avoid serious complications associated with cervicomedullary compression, including sudden death.
17 subjects diagnosed with schizophrenia and having auditory hallucinations in their case history were compared with 15 control subjects in an experiment on perceptual restoration. A tone pattern was presented, then interrupted by noise, under conditions such that the tone pattern could be heard as going on continuously (restoration). A series of 16 stimuli with a distractor of varying amplitude (noise) were presented. Healthy controls reliably reported restoration in Presentations 9 and 10. Four schizophrenics reported no restoration at all. Three of them reported restoration earlier than controls, and four others reported it later than controls and continued to report the phenomenon after a point at which no healthy controls did. Six other presented an irregular pattern of response to the phenomenon. The results are discussed with respect to the neurophysiological functioning of the auditory pathway and schizophrenic symptoms.
This study aimed to determine structural alterations occurring in cardiac myofilaments after exogenous application of oxidants and the effects of oxidants on contractile protein function in a rabbit coronary artery ligation model of heart failure. Myocardial &quot;stiffness&quot; was higher in the ligated animals (Lig) than sham-operated controls (Sh, 4.9+/-1.5 versus 1.6+/-0.8 mN.mm-1). Superoxide anion (O2-) exposure decreased active stiffness in both groups, whereas hypochlorous acid (HOCl) had no effect in Lig but increased stiffness in Sh. Resting stiffness was higher in Lig than Sh (0.6+/-0.2 versus 0.2+/-0.1 mN.mm-1), remaining unchanged after O2- exposure but increasing after HOCl in both groups. The frequency at minimum stiffness was lower in Lig than Sh (0.9+/-0.2 versus 1. 7+/-0.6 Hz) and was reduced in both groups after oxidant exposure. Myofilament calcium sensitivity (pCa50) was not altered by O2- in Sh but increased in Lig (pCa50 increased from 5.41+/-0.05 to 5.56+/-0. 06). Protease contamination in the xanthine oxidase used to generate O2- did not affect myofilament ultrastructure at the concentrations used here. These data demonstrate that contractile proteins from &quot;failed&quot; myocardium have a similar response to exogenously applied oxidants as controls and that application of protease-contaminated xanthine oxidase system does not degrade the contractile protein structure.
In two experiments the hypothesis that caffeine reduces Stroop interference was tested. In the first experiment interference was measured as the reduction in performance when subjects had to indicate the numerosity of strings of incongruent digits, relative to neutral-symbol strings. In the second experiment the incongruent condition consisted of naming the color of words referring to incongruent colors, and was compared to color naming of neutral strings. In the number-digit task 250 mg caffeine reduced interference at the level of error rates, relative to placebo. In the color-word task interference was reduced at the level of reaction times. These results were obtained with blocked presentations of incongruent and neutral conditions. The color-word experiment also contained a condition in which neutral and incongruent trials were mixed within one sequence. In this mixed condition caffeine still reduced overall reaction times, but no longer specifically interference. It is argued that this dissociation reflects a caffeine-induced increase in flexibility. The results are discussed in relation to failed previous attempts to demonstrate increased selectivity under caffeine using non-Stroop tasks, the importance of including pretreatment sessions to detect artificial effects, and the possible contribution of withdrawal effects.
We present a method of analyzing spatiotemporal signals with respect to its underlying dynamics. The algorithm aims at the determination of spatial modes and a criterion for the number of interacting modes. Simultaneously, a way of filtering of nonorthogonal noise is shown. The method is discussed by examples of simulated stable fixpoints and the Lorenz attractor.
The heritability of the before and after meal self-ratings of hunger and thirst and their relationship to food intake was investigated with 110 identical and 102 fraternal same-sex and 53 fraternal mixed-gender adult twin pairs who were paid to maintain 7-day food intake diaries. From the diary reports, the total and meal intakes of food energy and the amounts of the macronutrients ingested were estimated. Subjects rated their subjective levels of hunger on a seven-point scale both before and after eating. Linear structural modeling was applied to investigate the nature and degree of genetic and environmental influences and revealed significant genetic influences on the self-rated levels of hunger both before and after the meals and the change in hunger over the meal. In addition, the relationship between hunger and intake was influenced by the genes. Significant heritabilities were found for the correlations, and the slopes of the regression lines relating before-meal hunger to meal size and also the change in hunger over the meal to intake. This indicates that hunger's effect on intake and, in turn, intake's effects on hunger are to some extent heritable. This suggests that the level of subjective experience and the individuals responses to them are influenced by the genes and become part of the total package of genetically determined physiological, socio/cultural, and psychological processes that regulate energy balance.
1. In the present study, the authors addressed the issue of the possible modulation of both emotional and learning processes by the stimulation of 5-HT1A receptors. In this respect, we have carried out two series of experiments: the first series examined the effects of systemic injections of 8-OH-DPAT, a 5-HT1A receptor agonist, successively on a model of anxiety and on a learning task; secondly the effects of selective infusions into the medial septum were studied in the same experimental design. 2. Mice were tested in an elevated plus-maze before being submitted to a spatial discrimination task in an 8-arm radial maze. The 8-OH-DPAT (1 mg/kg) administered intraperitoneally 30 minutes prior to testing, induced anxiogenic-like effects in the plus-maze and improved the acquisition of the spatial discrimination. 3. Moreover, a regression analysis showed that the index of anxiety measured in the elevated plus-maze was positively correlated with the performance level reached at the forth day of training in the spatial discrimination task. The intraseptal infusion of the drug (1 microgram) demonstrated the same pattern of results, although the effects were less pronounced. Again a correlation between the index of anxiety and acquisition performance was obtained. 4. These results suggest that anxiogenic-like effects induced by selective stimulation of 5-HT1A receptors have a positive influence on the acquisition of a memory task. As systemic injections appeared to be more effective than intra-septal infusions, these effects might be mediated by both pre- and postsynaptic 5-HT1A receptors.
Patients with cluster headache are often treated with lithium. However, there are some patients who can not be fully treated with lithium alone. Two patients with cluster headache were treated with clonazepam, one of the most potent benzodiazepines. Lithium prolonged the period of remission, and the addition of clonazepam further prolonged it in case 1. Treatment with clonazepam reduced the symptoms in case 2, and when combined with lithium, the disorder went into remission after 6 months. These findings suggest that the combination of lithium and clonazepam may be effective in patients with cluster headache.



It has been known for over 30 years that olfactory function is disordered in idiopathic Parkinson's disease (IPD). The severity and partial specificity of anosmia was not realized until recently, with the advent of more detailed analysis and sophisticated measurement. The olfactory vector hypothesis suggests that the causative agent for IPD enters the brain via the nasal route, but the reason for olfactory dysfunction may be more subtle. Evidence for olfactory disturbance is reviewed from pathological, psychological, neurophysiological and genetic stand-points. It is proposed that the initial causative event in IPD may start in the rhinencephalon (olfactory brain) prior to damage in the basal ganglia.
Defects in RNA-binding proteins have been implicated in human genetic disorders. However, efforts in understanding the functions of these proteins have been hampered by the inability to obtain their mRNA substrates. To identify cognate cellular mRNAs associated with an RNA-binding protein, we devised a strategy termed isolation of specific nucleic acids associated with proteins (SNAAP). The SNAAP technique allows isolation and subsequent identification of these mRNAs. To assess the validity of this approach, we utilized cellular mRNA and protein from K562 cells and alphaCP1, a protein implicated in a-globin mRNA stability, as a model system. Immobilization of an RNA-binding protein with the glutathione-S-transferase (GST) domain enables isolation of mRNA within an mRNP context and the identity of the bound mRNAs is determined by the differential display assay. The specificity of protein-RNA interactions was considerably enhanced when the interactions were carried out in the presence of cellular extract rather than purified components. Two of the mRNAs specifically bound by alphaCP1 were mRNAs encoding the transmembrane receptor protein, TAPA-1, and the mitochondrial cytochrome c oxidase subunit II enzyme, coxII. A specific poly(C)-sensitive complex formed on the TAPA-1 and coxII 3' UTRs consistent with the binding of aCP1. Furthermore, direct binding of purified alphaCP proteins to these 3' UTRs was demonstrated and the binding sites determined. These results support the feasibility of the SNAAP technique and suggest a broad applicability for the approach in identifying mRNA targets for clinically relevant RNA-binding proteins that will provide insights into their possible functions.



A preliminary investigation of the efficacy of a group intervention combining a range of psychological approaches and techniques for seizure management in adults with poorly controlled epilepsy. An uncontrolled AB group design was employed. Seven adults with intractable seizures took part in 8, weekly group sessions which included providing information, employed cognitive-behavioural techniques and addressed emotional difficulties. Weekly seizure logs were kept by participants during the intervention and the following 3 months. Five questionnaires were administered before and after the intervention and at 2-months follow-up to provide an indication of psychosocial well-being. Seizure frequency and scores on the questionnaires were used as outcome measures. There was a significant reduction in seizure frequency in the group, which persisted at follow-up. There were no significant changes on any of the questionnaires. The results suggest that a group-based intervention incorporating a range of psychological techniques may be effective for improving seizure control. The link between seizure reduction and psychological and psychosocial well-being needs further investigation.
The changes in OFQ-immunoreactivity (OFQ-ir) content and release of cerebroventricular perfusate, periaqueductal gray (PAG) and amygadala of chronic morphine tolerant rats were measured with radioimmunoassay (RIA). The results indicate: (1) chronic morphine tolerance was achieved in rats by injecting increasing doses of morphine (10, 20, 40, 50, 60 mg/kg, s.c., tid). The content of OFQ-ir in cerebroventricular perfusate in the rats of normal saline (NS) group remained at a steady level during the injections from d 1 to d 5, while in the morphine-treated group of rats the content of OFQ-ir showed 25% increase (P &lt; 0.05 vs NS) and 52% increase (P &lt; 0.01 vs NS) after 3 and 5 days' morphine injection respectively. (2) The content of OFQ-ir in PAG of rats receiving morphine injection for 1, 3 and 5 days showed respectively increases of 17% (P &lt; 0.05), 48% (P &lt; 0.05) and 80% (P &lt; 0.01) against the NS group. (3) The content of OFQ-ir in rat amygdala receiving 1 day injection of morphine showed a 8% decrease, which was not significantly different from NS group. However, there was a 36% and 55% (P &lt; 0.05) increase respectively after injection for 3 and 5 days. It is suggested that in the later stage of chronic morphine treatment, large amount of OFQ was released from rat brain to antagonize the effect of opioids, which may play an important role in the development of morphine tolerance.
Analysis of stressor effects on immune functioning is complicated by the fact that the nature of the changes observed may be influenced by organismic factors (e.g., species, strain, age), the nature, severity and chronicity of the stressor, as well as the specific immune parameters being examined. It is demonstrated in the present investigation that in the highly reactive inbred BALB/cByJ mouse, the relatively hardy C57BL/6ByJ strain, as well as in the noninbred CD-1 strain, acute psychogenic (predator exposure) and neurogenic (footshock) stressors reduced splenic macrophage activity, and this effect was less marked after a chronic stressor. With protracted, but not transient, psychosocial disturbances (isolated housing) similar effects were seen, suggesting that the effect was not simply due to a change of the social mileau. The psychogenic and neurogenic stressors also enhanced LPS-stimulated lymphocyte proliferation in CD-1, but not in the inbred strains. However, isolated housing reduced both B and T cell proliferation, indicating that social isolation likely affects processes distinct from those of other stressors. Interestingly, when the aversiveness of the psychogenic stressor was increased (by decreasing the distance between the rat and the mouse) LPS-stimulated lymphocyte proliferation was reduced in the reactive BALB/cByJ strain, but increased in the hardy C57BL/6ByJ mice. This stressor, however, enhanced T cell proliferation in both strains of mice. It is suggested that analysis of stressor effects need to consider in greater detail the characteristics of the organism being stressed, as well as the characteristics of the stressor itself.


In this study, we examined the effect of the acute and repeated administration of the selective sigma (sigma)1 receptor agonist 1-(3, 4-dimethoxyphenethyl)-4-(3-phenylpropyl)piperazine dihydrochloride (SA4503) on the number and firing pattern of spontaneously active dopamine (DA) neurons in substantia nigra pars compacta (SNC) and ventral tegmental area (VTA) in anesthetized, male Sprague-Dawley rats. This was accomplished using the technique of in vivo extracellular single unit recording. The intravenous administration of SA4503 (0.01-1.28 mg/kg) did not significantly alter the firing rate or pattern of spontaneously active DA neurons in either the SNC or VTA. A single injection of either 0.1 or 0.3 mg/kg i.p. of SA4503 did not alter the number of spontaneously active SNC and VTA DA neurons. In contrast, a single injection of 1 mg/kg i.p. of SA4503 produced a significant decrease and increase in the number of spontaneously active SNC and VTA DA neurons, respectively. Overall, the firing pattern parameters of spontaneously active SNC DA neurons were altered more significantly than those of spontaneously active VTA DA neurons following the acute administration of SA4503. The repeated administration (one injection per day for 21 days) of 0.3 and 1 mg/kg i.p. of SA4503 produced a significant increase in the number of spontaneously active VTA DA neurons. In addition, the repeated administration of SA4503 produced a greater alteration of the firing pattern of spontaneously active VTA compared to SNC DA neurons. Our results suggest that the administration of SA4503 significantly alters the activity of spontaneously active midbrain DA neurons, particularly those in the VTA following repeated administration.
Rats were given repeated injections of 10 mg/kg of morphine and were then left undisturbed for 24-25 days before their brains were processed for Golgi-Cox staining. Prior exposure to morphine decreased the complexity of dendritic branching and the number of dendritic spines on medium spiny neurons in the shell of the nucleus accumbens and on pyramidal cells in the prefrontal and parietal cortex. It is suggested that some of the long-term behavioral consequences of repeated exposure to morphine may be due to its ability to reorganize patterns of synaptic connectivity in the forebrain.
NAC-1 is an mRNA that is increased selectively in the nucleus accumbens after acute and repeated cocaine administration. Antisense or control oligonucleotides were microinjected into the nucleus accumbens of rats to define the role of NAC-1 in the behavioral responses to acute systemic cocaine. Antisense oligonucleotides decreased NAC-1 mRNA levels by 26% and markedly enhanced the motor stimulant response to an acute cocaine injection compared to sense oligonucleotide microinjections. The augmentation in cocaine motor behavior produced by NAC-1 antisense pretreatment in the nucleus accumbens was not associated with increased dopamine release as estimated by microdialysis. In contrast, the behavioral response to dopamine microinjection into the nucleus accumbens was increased after antisense oligonucleotide treatment, while the motor response to mu-opioid receptor stimulation was unaltered. These data suggest that the induction of NAC-1 by cocaine may be a compensatory mechanism that minimizes the behavioral impact of cocaine administration by regulating postsynaptic dopamine transmission within the nucleus accumbens.
Opioids acting at mu-opioid receptors (MORs) within the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS) potently modulate autonomic functions that are also known to be influenced by inputs from the central nucleus of the amygdala (CEA). In addition, many of the physiological effects of MOR agonists have been attributed to interactions with neurons that contain gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), one of the neurotransmitters present in CEA-derived terminals and their targets in the medial NTS. Together, these observations suggest that MORs are present at pre- or postsynaptic sites within the CEA to NTS circuitry. To test this hypothesis, we combined anterograde transport of biotinylated dextran amine (BDA) with immunogold-silver localization of an antipeptide antiserum against the MOR in the NTS of adult rats. In animals receiving bilateral CEA injections of BDA, anterogradely labeled axons were seen throughout the rostrocaudal NTS. Electron microscopy of the medial NTS at rostral and intermediate levels showed anterograde BDA-labeling in many small unmyelinated axons and axon terminals, none of which contained detectable MOR. The BDA-labeled axon terminals formed mainly symmetric, inhibitory-type synapses with somata and dendrites. Over half of the somatic and approximately 10% of the dendritic targets showed nonsynaptic plasmalemmal immunogold labeling for MOR. The BDA-labeled axon terminals were also frequently apposed by other small axons that contained MORs. These results suggest that within the medial NTS, MOR agonists modulate the postsynaptic inhibition produced by CEA afferents and also play a role in the presynaptic release of other neurotransmitters.
The 12;21 chromosomal translocation occurs in leukemic cells from 20(30% of patients with B-lineage childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia, the result being the TEL/AML1 fusion gene carrying a sequence different from TEL or AML1. Because the protein newly formed by TEL/ AML1 fusion is probably not tolerated by human immune system, the fusion region is a good candidate for tumor antigen expressed only in TEL/ AML1-positive leukemic cells. We established two human CD4+ alphabeta T-cell clones (T31.1 and Y41.2) reacting to the TEL/AML1 fusion region, from two unrelated healthy donors. In order to do this, we stimulated peripheral blood mononuclear cells with synthetic peptides corresponding to the TEL/ AML1 fusion region. Both T31.1 and Y41.2 proliferated in response to TEL/ AML1 fusion protein as well as to a peptide IGRIAECILGMNPSR, in the context of HLA-DP5 and DP17, respectively, and killed B lymphoblastoid cells pulsed with the peptide. Furthermore, these T-cell clones proliferated in response to several altered peptide ligands carrying a single residue substitution in the TEL/AML1 peptide, and some induced augmentation of proliferation and production of Th1-type cytokines. These superagonistic altered peptide ligands can be given consideration for anti-leukemic immunotherapy.

The human hypothalamus is subdivided into some 20 well-defined nuclei that have a multitude of specific functions from the time of birth to the moment we die. Hypothalamic nuclei show structural and functional differences not only in relation to classic neuroendocrine disorders, such as diabetes insipidus, climacteric flushes and Kallman's syndrome, but also in relation to gender and sexual orientation, to adaptive processes such as non-thyroidal illness and in psychiatric disorders such as depression.
In goldfish it has been shown that ethambutol shifts the threshold for wavelength discrimination without affecting the absolute sensitivity of the cones. In this study we demonstrate that a similar colour vision disturbance occurs in tuberculosis patients treated with ethambutol. After 2 months of ethambutol treatment, chromatic discrimination was measured with a computerized forced two choice (CD) test with isoluminant coloured stimuli and with three other colour vision tests: the Ishihara, the Oscar and the Lanthony Desaturated 15 Hue tests. The scores of the patient group (n = 19) on these four colour vision tests were compared with the scores of a group of control subjects (n = 33) and a group of congenital red/green colour-blind subjects (n = 5). A reduction of the stimulus intensity of 1 log unit caused a significant reduction in red/green chromatic discrimination, measured with the CD test in both, control subjects and patients. This intensity dependent reduction was significantly greater for patients than for controls. In this respect, man and goldfish behave similarly. Furthermore, the CD test showed the same ethambutol-induced reduction in chromatic discrimination at low intensity for the blue/green part of the spectrum. This has not been measured in goldfish. The origin of this ethambutol-induced colour vision disturbance must be at a post-photoreceptor site, because the Ishihara and Oscar tests, both designed to screen for photoreceptor-based, or primary red/green colour vision disturbances, did not discriminate between patients and control subjects. Thus, as in goldfish, we find that in patients ethambutol shifts the threshold for chromatic discrimination without changing the absolute sensitivity.
1. A rapid 96-well plate based method for the determination of CYP3A mRNA induction in primary rat hepatocytes has been developed which has substantial advantages over current technologies including the ability to test the effect of relatively large numbers of new chemical entities on the expression of CYP3A mRNA in hepatocytes. 2. The ribonuclease protection assay detects changes in mRNA levels in small numbers of hepatocytes by the utilization of a radiolabelled antisense riboprobe that will hybridize CYP3A1 and CYP3A23. Using in situ hybridization techniques in conjunction with Amersham 96-well Cytostar-T scintillating microplates, there is no need for isolation of mRNA. A simple ribonuclease digestion step allows quantitative data to be generated easily within 1 week of hepatocyte isolation. 3. Rat hepatocytes were cultured for 48 h post-isolation on the Cytostar plates coated with a basal matrix of Matrigel. Prototypical CYP3A inducers (dexamethasone and pregnenolone 16alpha-carbonitrile) have been studied using various treatment periods from 0.5 to 24 h. Methylclofenapate and beta-naphthoflavone, prototypical inducers of CYP4A and CYP1A respectively, have been used as controls to show specificity of the [33P]-labelled riboprobe for the CYP3A family. 4. Time-dependent increases in CYP3A mRNA were demonstrated following exposure of hepatocytes to prototypical CYP3A inducers, but not for methylclofenapate or beta-naphthoflavone, so demonstrating specificity for CYP3A mRNA over CYP1A and CYP4A. Analysis of the 24-h induction data demonstrates that significant differences from controls can be determined and that induction potential can be assessed. The system has the potential to screen for overall CYP3A mRNA induction in response to compounds at an early stage in drug research.
Axonal regeneration is abortive in the central nervous system (CNS) of adult mammals, but readily occurs in the injured peripheral nervous system (PNS). Recent experiments indicate an important role for both intrinsic neuronal features and extrinsic substrate properties in determining the propensity for axonal regrowth. In particular, certain components of adult mammalian CNS myelin have been shown to exert a strong inhibitory influence on neurite outgrowth. To determine whether the potent neurite outgrowth inhibitory activity found in CNS myelin may also be present in PNS myelin and to study the influence of neuronal age on neurite outgrowth, we used a cryoculture assay in which dissociated rat dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons of different ages were challenged to extend neurites on fractionated myelin and cryostat sections from the PNS (sciatic nerve and myelin-free degenerated sciatic nerve) and CNS (optic nerve) of adult rats. The CNS environment of the optic nerve did not support E17 to P8 DRG neurite adhesion or outgrowth. E17 DRG neurons, unlike their older counterparts, however, were able to attach and extend neurites onto normal sciatic nerve and onto purified PNS myelin. In contrast, a vigorous neurite outgrowth response from all the ages tested was observed on the myelin-free degenerated sciatic nerve. These results indicate that PNS myelin is a potent inhibitor of neurite outgrowth and that DRG neuronal age plays an important role in determining the propensity for neurite outgrowth and regenerative response on inhibitory PNS and CNS substrata.
Motifer is a software tool able to find directly in nucleotide databases very distant homologues to an amino acid query sequence. It focuses searches on a specific amino acid pattern, scoring the matching and intervening residues as specified by the user. The program has been developed for searching databases of expressed sequence tags (ESTs), but it is also well suited to search genomic sequences. The query sequence can be a variable pattern with alternative amino acids or gaps and the sequences searched can contain introns or sequencing errors with accompanying frame shifts. Other features include options to generate a searchable output, set the maximal sequencing error frequency, limit searches to given species, or exclude already known matches. Motifer can find sequence homologues that other search algorithms would deem unrelated or would not find because of sequencing errors or a too large number of other homologues. The ability of Motifer to find relatives to a given sequence is exemplified by searches for members of the transforming growth factor-beta family and for proteins containing a WW-domain. The functions aimed at enhancing EST searches are illustrated by the 'in silico' cloning of a novel cytochrome P450 enzyme.
Exposure to ozone results in an increased production of free radicals which causes oxidative stress. The purpose of this study was to determine the effects of ozone exposure on memory and its correlation with the cytology of the hippocampus. Twenty-four male Wistar rats were exposed to 1 ppm (parts per million) ozone for 4 h in a closed chamber. Control group was exposed to flowing air. After ozone exposure, the rats were given long-term (24 h) memory training which consists of a passive avoidance conditioning. After that the animals were perfused and the brains were placed in the Golgi stain. The analysis consisted in counting the dendritic spines in five secondary and five tertiary dendrites of each of the 20 pyramidal neurons of hippocampus CA1 analyzed. Our results showed alterations on long-term memory and a significant reduction of dendritic spines, and provided evidence that this deterioration in memory is probably due to the reduction in spine density in the pyramidal neurons of hippocampus.
Seventeen schizophrenic patients who had all experienced auditory hallucinations were compared with 14 subjects of a reference group on a test of contralateral induction. Contralateral induction means that a sound is illusively heard as coming from a location where it belongs according to its spectral content. The phenomenon is connected with a simultaneous relative elimination of masking. The schizophrenic subjects deviated from the reference group in several aspects. Some of them did not hear the sound being induced to the contralateral side, which it was for all reference subjects. Another subgroup of the schizophrenics noticed the induction unusually early with a prolonged experience of it, and finally some of them experienced the induction now and then. The aberrations were interpreted as rigidity of adaptation on the one hand and as effects of an enhanced sensitivity on the other. Discontinuity, meaning that the fluency in mental processing is broken, was interpreted to cause the ratings of the third group of schizophrenics in this sample, who heard the contralateral induction now and then. These phenomena are clearly reminiscent of descriptions in research reports, and witnessed by clinical experience of the schizophrenic disturbance. The results represent another example of discontinuous neurophysiological functions between neural systems and between individuals suffering from schizophrenia.

Many psychotropic drugs interfere with the reuptake of dopamine, norepinephrine, and serotonin. Transport capacity is regulated by kinase-linked pathways, particularly those involving protein kinase C (PKC), resulting in transporter phosphorylation and sequestration. Phosphorylation and sequestration of the serotonin transporter (SERT) were substantially impacted by ligand occupancy. Ligands that can permeate the transporter, such as serotonin or the amphetamines, prevented PKC-dependent SERT phosphorylation. Nontransported SERT antagonists such as cocaine and antidepressants were permissive for SERT phosphorylation but blocked serotonin effects. PKC-dependent SERT sequestration was also blocked by serotonin. These findings reveal activity-dependent modulation of neurotransmitter reuptake and identify previously unknown consequences of amphetamine, cocaine, and antidepressant action.
The field of functional neuroimaging (FNI) methodology has developed into a mature but evolving area of knowledge and its applications have been extensive. A general problem in the analysis of FNI data is finding a signal embedded in noise. This is sometimes called signal detection. Signal detection theory focuses in general on issues relating to the optimization of conditions for separating the signal from noise. When methods from probability theory and mathematical statistics are directly applied in this procedure it is also called statistical inference. In this paper we briefly discuss some aspects of signal detection theory relevant to FNI and, in addition, some common approaches to statistical inference used in FNI. Low-pass filtering in relation to functional-anatomical variability and some effects of filtering on signal detection of interest to FNI are discussed. Also, some general aspects of hypothesis testing and statistical inference are discussed. This includes the need for characterizing the signal in data when the null hypothesis is rejected, the problem of multiple comparisons that is central to FNI data analysis, omnibus tests and some issues related to statistical power in the context of FNI. In turn, random field, scale space, non-parametric and Monte Carlo approaches are reviewed, representing the most common approaches to statistical inference used in FNI. Complementary to these issues an overview and discussion of non-inferential descriptive methods, common statistical models and the problem of model selection is given in a companion paper. In general, model selection is an important prelude to subsequent statistical inference. The emphasis in both papers is on the assumptions and inherent limitations of the methods presented. Most of the methods described here generally serve their purposes well when the inherent assumptions and limitations are taken into account. Significant differences in results between different methods are most apparent in extreme parameter ranges, for example at low effective degrees of freedom or at small spatial autocorrelation. In such situations or in situations when assumptions and approximations are seriously violated it is of central importance to choose the most suitable method in order to obtain valid results.
Functional neuroimaging (FNI) provides experimental access to the intact living brain making it possible to study higher cognitive functions in humans. In this review and in a companion paper in this issue, we discuss some common methods used to analyse FNI data. The emphasis in both papers is on assumptions and limitations of the methods reviewed. There are several methods available to analyse FNI data indicating that none is optimal for all purposes. In order to make optimal use of the methods available it is important to know the limits of applicability. For the interpretation of FNI results it is also important to take into account the assumptions, approximations and inherent limitations of the methods used. This paper gives a brief overview over some non-inferential descriptive methods and common statistical models used in FNI. Issues relating to the complex problem of model selection are discussed. In general, proper model selection is a necessary prerequisite for the validity of the subsequent statistical inference. The non-inferential section describes methods that, combined with inspection of parameter estimates and other simple measures, can aid in the process of model selection and verification of assumptions. The section on statistical models covers approaches to global normalization and some aspects of univariate, multivariate, and Bayesian models. Finally, approaches to functional connectivity and effective connectivity are discussed. In the companion paper we review issues related to signal detection and statistical inference.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) is a widely used technique for generating images or maps of human brain activity. The applications of the technique are widespread in cognitive neuroscience and it is hoped they will eventually extend into clinical practice. The activation signal measured with fMRI is predicated on indirectly measuring changes in the concentration of deoxyhaemoglobin which arise from an increase in blood oxygenation in the vicinity of neuronal firing. The exact mechanisms of this blood oxygenation level dependent (BOLD) contrast are highly complex. The signal measured is dependent on both the underlying physiological events and the imaging physics. BOLD contrast, although sensitive, is not a quantifiable measure of neuronal activity. A number of different imaging techniques and parameters can be used for fMRI, the choice of which depends on the particular requirements of each functional imaging experiment. The high-speed MRI technique, echo-planar imaging provides the basis for most fMRI experiments. The problems inherent to this method and the ways in which these may be overcome are particularly important in the move towards performing functional studies on higher field MRI systems. Future developments in techniques and hardware are also likely to enhance the measurement of brain activity using MRI.
High temporal resolution is necessary to resolve the rapidly changing patterns of brain activity that underlie mental function. Electroencephalography (EEG) provides temporal resolution in the millisecond range. However, traditional EEG technology and practice provide insufficient spatial detail to identify relationships between brain electrical events and structures and functions visualized by magnetic resonance imaging or positron emission tomography. Recent advances help to overcome this problem by recording EEGs from more electrodes, by registering EEG data with anatomical images, and by correcting the distortion caused by volume conduction of EEG signals through the skull and scalp. In addition, statistical measurements of sub-second interdependences between EEG time-series recorded from different locations can help to generate hypotheses about the instantaneous functional networks that form between different cortical regions during perception, thought and action. Example applications are presented from studies of language, attention and working memory. Along with its unique ability to monitor brain function as people perform everyday activities in the real world, these advances make modern EEG an invaluable complement to other functional neuroimaging modalities.

The Ral GTPase is activated by RalGDS, which is one of the effector proteins for Ras. Previous studies have suggested that Ral might function to regulate the cytoskeleton; however, its in vivo function is unknown. We have identified a Drosophila homologue of Ral that is widely expressed during embryogenesis and imaginal disc development. Two mutant Drosophila Ral (DRal) proteins, DRal(G20V) and DRal(S25N), were generated and analyzed for nucleotide binding and GTPase activity. The biochemical analyses demonstrated that DRal(G20V) and DRal(S25N) act as constitutively active and dominant negative mutants, respectively. Overexpression of the wild-type DRal did not cause any visible phenotype, whereas DRal(G20V) and DRal(S25N) mutants caused defects in the development of various tissues including the cuticular surface, which is covered by parallel arrays of polarized structures such as hairs and sensory bristles. The dominant negative DRal protein caused defects in the development of hairs and bristles. These phenotypes were genetically suppressed by loss of function mutations of hemipterous and basket, encoding Drosophila Jun NH(2)-terminal kinase kinase (JNKK) and Jun NH(2)-terminal kinase (JNK), respectively. Expression of the constitutively active DRal protein caused defects in the process of dorsal closure during embryogenesis and inhibited the phosphorylation of JNK in cultured S2 cells. These results indicate that DRal regulates developmental cell shape changes through the JNK pathway.
Cholinergic activation of dopaminergic neurons in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) is thought to play a major role in cognitive functions and reward. These dopaminergic neurons differentially project to cortical and limbic forebrain regions, where their terminals differ in levels of expression of the plasmalemmal dopamine transporter (DAT). This transporter selectively identifies dopaminergic neurons, whereas the vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAchT) is present only in the neurons that store and release acetylcholine. We examined immunogold labeling for DAT and immunoperoxidase localization of VAchT antipeptide antisera in single sections of the rat VTA to determine whether dopaminergic somata and dendrites in this region differ in their levels of expression of DAT and/or input from cholinergic terminals. VAchT immunoreactivity was prominently localized to membranes of small synaptic vesicles in unmyelinated axons and axon terminals. VAchT-immunoreactive terminals formed almost exclusively asymmetric synapses with dendrites. Of 159 dendrites that were identified as cholinergic targets, 35% contained plasmalemmal DAT, and 65% were without detectable DAT immunoreactivity. The DAT-immunoreactive dendrites postsynaptic to VAchT-labeled terminals contained less than half the density of gold particles as seen in other dendrites receiving input only from unlabeled terminals. These results suggest selective targeting of cholinergic afferents in the VTA to non-dopaminergic neurons and a subpopulation of dopaminergic neurons that have a limited capacity for plasmalemmal reuptake of dopamine, a characteristic of those that project to the frontal cortex.
Vinpocetine, a vinca alkaloid, is a therapeutic agent widely used in the treatment of acute and chronic stroke patients. To explore the uptake and distribution of vinpocetine in the primate brain, vinpocetine was labelled with 11C and positron emission tomography (PET) was used to measure the uptake and distribution of 11C-vinpocetine in the brain and the trunk of a cynomolgous monkey. HPLC was used to determine the concentration of vinpocetine and its labelled metabolites in blood and plasma. Following the radioligand's intravenous administration, after an initial peak, the total concentration of radioactivity in blood was relatively stable with time. The uptake of 11C-vinpocetine into the brain was rapid and about 5% of the total injected radioactivity was present in the brain two minutes after drug administration. These facts indicate that the compound passes the blood-brain barrier readily and enters the brain. The radioactivity uptake was heterogeneously distributed among brain regions. The highest concentrations were found in the thalamus, the basal ganglia and certain neocortical regions. In an earlier PET investigation on chronic stroke patients the highest increases in cerebral blood flow and glucose metabolism after intravenous vinpocetine treatment occurred in these anatomical structures. The heterogenous regional distribution of vinpocetine and the observation that the highest uptake values in brain structures go parallel with the greatest regional blood flow and glucose metabolic rate increases indicate that direct CNS effects of vinpocetine should be considered as an explanation for the therapeutic effects. The confirmation of this suggestion requires further investigations.
The suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN) contain the mammalian circadian clock whose rhythm of firing rate can be recorded in vitro for several days. Application of a protein kinase A (PKA) inhibitor onto the SCN at Zeitgeber time (ZT) 10 on the first day in vitro phase delayed the rhythm of firing rate expressed by SCN neurons on the subsequent day in vitro. Application of the inhibitor (Rp-cAMPS) at other circadian phases did not phase shift the rhythm. These results suggest that during approximately 1 h in the late subjective day the presence and activity of PKA plays a role in setting the phase of the mammalian circadian clock.
In the present experiments, we compared the anti-ischemic effects of the immunosuppressants cyclosporin A (CsA) and FK506 in hyperglycemic animals subjected to 30 min of middle cerebral artery (MCA) occlusion. Both immunosuppressants were given as pre-treatment, the effect of treatment being evaluated by 2,3, 5-triphenyltetrazolium (TTC) staining after 3 days of recovery. Both FK506 and CsA reduced the infarct volume to less than 1/3 of control. In spite of CsA's known effect as a blocker of the mitochondrial transition (MPT) pore, it failed to give a more robust effect than FK506. If anything, FK506, which lacks an effect on the MPT pore, had a more pronounced anti-ischemic effect. We conclude that, in this model of infarction, an MPT may not play a major pathogenetic role.
Rac1 and RhoA regulate membrane ruffling and stress fiber formation. Both molecules appear to exert their control from the plasma membrane. In fibroblasts stimulated with platelet-derived growth factor or lysophosphatidic acid, the reorganization of the cytoskeleton begins at specific sites on the cell surface. We now report that endogenous Rac1 and RhoA also have a polarized distribution at the cell surface. Cell fractionation and immunogold labeling show that in quiescent fibroblasts both of these molecules are concentrated in caveolae, which are plasma membrane domains that are associated with actin-rich regions of the cell. Treatment of these cells with platelet-derived growth factor stimulated the recruitment of additional Rac1 and RhoA to caveolae fractions, while lysophosphatidic acid only caused the recruitment of RhoA. We could reconstitute the recruitment of RhoA using either whole cell lysates or purified caveolae. Surprisingly, pretreatment of the lysates with exoenzyme C3 shifted both resident and recruited RhoA from caveolae to noncaveolae membranes. The shift in location was not caused by inactivation of the RhoA effector domain. Moreover, chimeric proteins containing the C-terminal consensus site for Rac1 and RhoA prenylation were constitutively targeted to caveolae fractions. These results suggest that the polarized distribution of Rho family proteins at the cell surface involves an initial targeting of the protein to caveolae and a mechanism for retaining it at this site.
Familial neurohypophysial diabetes insipidus is characterized by vasopressin deficiency caused by heterozygous expression of a mutated vasopressin prohormone gene. To elucidate the mechanism of this disease, we stably expressed five vasopressin prohormones with a mutation in the neurophysin moiety (NP14G--&gt;R, NP47E--&gt;G, NP47DeltaE, NP57G--&gt;S, and NP65G--&gt;V) in the neuroendocrine cell lines Neuro-2A and PC12/PC2. Metabolic labeling demonstrated that processing and secretion of all five mutants was impaired, albeit to different extents (NP65G--&gt;V &gt;/= NP14G--&gt;R &gt; NP47DeltaE &gt;/= NP47E--&gt;G &gt; NP57G--&gt;S). Persisting endoglycosidase H sensitivity revealed these defects to be due to retention of mutant prohormone in the endoplasmic reticulum. Mutant prohormones that partially passed the endoplasmic reticulum were normally targeted to the regulated secretory pathway. Surprisingly, this also included mutants with mutations in residues involved in binding of vasopressin to neurophysin, a process implicated in targeting of the prohormone. To mimick the high expression in vasopressin-producing neurons, mutant vasopressin prohormones were transiently expressed in Neuro-2A cells. Immunofluorescence displayed formation of large accumulations of mutant prohormone in the endoplasmic reticulum, accompanied by redistribution of an endoplasmic reticulum marker. Our data suggest that prolonged perturbation of the endoplasmic reticulum eventually leads to degeneration of neurons expressing mutant vasopressin prohormones, explaining the dominant nature of the disease.
Peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM), a bifunctional enzyme, catalyzes the COOH-terminal amidation of bioactive peptides. In test tube assays, PAM is phosphorylated by protein kinase C at Ser(937). The roles of phosphorylation and dephosphorylation of Ser(937) in the biosynthetic and endocytic trafficking of integral membrane PAM were examined using an antiserum specific for the phosphorylation of Ser(937) and using AtT-20 cells expressing membrane PAM in which Ser(937) was mutated to Ala or Asp. Although phosphorylation at Ser(937) can occur while PAM is in the endoplasmic reticulum, early steps in the biosynthetic trafficking of membrane PAM were not affected by Ser(937) phosphorylation. The inability to phosphorylate PAM/S937A increased its intracellular degradation and decreased secretion of the soluble monooxygenase portion of PAM. In contrast, the biosynthetic trafficking of PAM/S937D was indistinguishable from wild-type PAM. Despite the fact that Ser(937) is adjacent to the only Tyr-based internalization motif in PAM, internalization and trafficking through early endosomes were unaffected by phosphorylation. However, PAM antibody internalized by wild-type PAM acquired a perinuclear localization, while antibody internalized by PAM/S937A was routed to lysosomes, and antibody bound to PAM/S937D maintained a dispersed, punctate pattern. In cells stimulated with phorbol ester, phosphorylation of Ser(937) increased and phosphorylated PAM accumulated in large vesicular structures. Therefore, phosphorylation of PAM-1 at Ser(937) directs newly synthesized and internalized protein away from lysosomes, while dephosphorylation is needed for a different step in the late endocytic pathway.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) has been shown to signal through a multicomponent receptor complex consisting of the Ret receptor tyrosine kinase and a member of the GFRalpha family of glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored receptors. In the current model of GDNF signaling, Ret delivers the intracellular signal but cannot bind ligand on its own, while GFRalphas bind ligand but are thought not to signal in the absence of Ret. We have compared signaling pathways activated by GDNF in two neuronal cell lines expressing different complements of GDNF receptors. In a motorneuron-derived cell line expressing Ret and GFRalphas, GDNF stimulated sustained activation of the Ras/ERK and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/Akt pathways, cAMP response element-binding protein phosphorylation, and increased c-fos expression. Unexpectedly, GDNF also promoted biochemical and biological responses in a line of conditionally immortalized neuronal precursors that express high levels of GFRalphas but not Ret. GDNF treatment did not activate the Ras/ERK pathway in these cells, but stimulated a GFRalpha1-associated Src-like kinase activity in detergent-insoluble membrane compartments, rapid phosphorylation of cAMP response element-binding protein, up-regulation of c-fos mRNA, and cell survival. Together, these results offer new insights into the dynamics of GDNF signaling in neuronal cells, and indicate the existence of novel signaling mechanisms directly or indirectly mediated by GFRalpha receptors acting in a cell-autonomous manner independently of Ret.
The intraplantar injection of lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) at doses of 0.1-100 pmol into the hind limb of mice showed dose-dependent nociceptive flexor responses. Repeated challenges of LPA at 100 pmol every 5 min showed constant responses at least for 30 min. The prior application of pertussis toxin (PTX) at a dose of 10 ng markedly reduced the following LPA (100 pmol) actions. In addition, the intraplantar application of CP-99994 (1 pmol), a substance P (NK1) receptor antagonist, but not CP-100263 (1 pmol), an inactive derivative, also markedly reduced the LPA responses. These findings suggest that LPA has a nociception-producing activity on sensory neurons through G(i/o) activation and substance P release from nociceptor endings.
Patch-clamp recording techniques were used to examine the effect of serotonin (5HT) upon interneurones contained in the stratum oriens layer of hippocampal slices. Bath application of 1-20 microM 5HT depolarized neurones by the induction of an inward current at -60 mV. This inward current was Na+-dependent in nature, was mimicked by the 5HT2 receptor agonist 1-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane (DOI) and was inhibited by pre-incubation with the 5HT2 receptor antagonist ritanserin.
We have determined whether alteration of neuronal function in raphe pallidus and the parapyramidal region alters ear blood flow, measured by an implanted Doppler ultrasonic probe, in anesthetized rabbits. Injection of GABA (5 nmol in 50 nl) increased ear flow from 6.0 +/- 1.0 to 31 +/- 10 kHz, without changing arterial pressure or heart rate. Focal electrical stimulation of raphe pallidus at low current amplitude caused ear pinna blood flow to fall from 41 +/- 6 to 9 +/- 3 kHz, again with little or no change in arterial pressure. These excitatory and inhibitory stimuli did not affect superior mesenteric blood flow. The fall in ear flow in response to electrical stimulation of raphe pallidus was not prevented by tetrodotoxin-mediated inhibition of the rostral ventrolateral medulla. Thus raphe pallidus and parapyramidal region may regulate ear pinna vascular conductance via a direct spinal projection.
We used the partial sciatic nerve ligation (PSL) model of Seltzer to assess thermal hyperalgesia after administration of Prosaptide 14-mer, TX14(A). At a dose of 200 microg/kg in Wistar rats, subcutaneous delivery of TX14(A) reversed thermal hyperalgesia at 3 and 24 h. Values declined at 48 h and returned to baseline at 72 h. A dosing study of TX(14)A gave a dependent response with 100 microg/kg having a similar potency to the 200 microg/kg study with 50 and 10 microg/kg responding somewhat lower. When TX(14)A was administered every fourth day for 12 days at 100 microg/kg, 24 h post injection values returned to baseline each time. Our results suggest that Prosaptide may have potential for therapeutic use in neuropathic pain syndromes in humans.
Many representations of sensory stimuli in the neocortex are arranged as topographic maps. These cortical maps are not fixed, but show experience-dependent plasticity. For instance, sensory deprivation causes the cortical area representing the deprived sensory input to shrink, and neighbouring spared representations to enlarge, in somatosensory, auditory or visual cortex. In adolescent and adult animals, changes in cortical maps are most noticeable in the supragranular layers at the junction of deprived and spared cortex. However, the cellular mechanisms of this experience-dependent plasticity are unclear. Long-term potentiation and depression have been implicated, but have not been proven to be necessary or sufficient for cortical map reorganization. Short-term synaptic dynamics have not been considered. We developed a brain slice preparation involving rat whisker barrel cortex in vitro. Here we report that sensory deprivation alters short-term synaptic dynamics in both vertical and horizontal excitatory pathways within the supragranular cortex. Moreover, modifications of horizontal pathways amplify changes in the vertical inputs. Our findings help to explain the functional cortical reorganization that follows persistent changes of sensory experience.


Recombinant adeno-associated virus (rAAV) vectors have become attractive tools for in vivo gene transfer. The production and purification of high-titer rAAV vector stocks for experimental and therapeutic gene transfer continue to undergo improvement. Standard rAAV vector purification protocols include the purification of the vector by cesium chloride (CsCl)-density gradient centrifugation followed by extensive desalination via dialysis against a physiological buffer for in vivo use. These procedures are extremely time consuming and frequently result in a substantial loss of the infectious vector titer. As an alternative to CsCl we have investigated the use of Iodixanol, an X-ray contrast solution, as the density-gradient medium. Purification of rAAV vectors by Iodixanol shortened the centrifugation period to 3 hr and resulted in reproducible concentration and purification of rAAV-vector stocks. We show that injection of rAAV derived from an Iodixanol gradient can be used for in vivo gene transfer applications in the brain and spinal cord without detectable cytopathic effects and directing stable transgene expression for at least 2 months.
Mammalian cerebral cortex is composed of a multitude of different areas that are each specialized for a unique purpose. It is unclear whether the activity pattern and modality of sensory inputs to cortex play an important role in the development of cortical regionalization. The modality of sensory inputs to cerebral cortex can be altered experimentally. Neonatal diversion of retinal axons to the auditory thalamus (cross-modal rewiring) results in a primary auditory cortex (AI) that resembles the primary visual cortex in its visual response properties and topography. Functional reorganization could occur because the visual inputs use existing circuitry in AI, or because the early visual inputs promote changes in AI's circuitry that make it capable of constructing visual receptive field properties. The present study begins to distinguish between these possibilities by exploring whether the callosal connectivity of AI is altered by early visual experience. Here we show that early visual inputs to auditory thalamus can reorganize callosal connections in auditory cortex, causing both a reduction in their extent and a reorganization of the pattern. This result is distinctly different from that in deafened animals, which have widespread callosal connections, as in early postnatal development. Thus, profound changes in cortical circuitry can result simply from a change in the modality of afferent input. Similar changes may underlie cortical compensatory processes in deaf and blind humans.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a hereditary neurodegenerative disorder presenting with chorea, dementia, and extensive striatal neuronal death. The mechanism through which the widely expressed mutant HD gene mediates a slowly progressing striatal neurotoxicity is unknown. Glutamate receptor-mediated excitotoxicity has been hypothesized to contribute to the pathogenesis of HD. Here we show that transgenic HD mice expressing exon 1 of a human HD gene with an expanded number of CAG repeats (line R6/1) are strongly protected from acute striatal excitotoxic lesions. Intrastriatal infusions of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor agonist quinolinic acid caused massive striatal neuronal death in wild-type mice, but no damage in transgenic HD littermates. The remarkable neuroprotection in transgenic HD mice occurred at a stage when they had not developed any neurological symptoms caused by the mutant HD gene. At this stage there was no change in the number of striatal neurons and astrocytes in untreated R6/1 mice, although the striatal volume was decreased by 17%. Moreover, transgenic HD mice had normal striatal levels of NMDA receptors, calbindin D28k (calcium buffer), superoxide dismutase activity (antioxidant enzyme), Bcl-2 (anti-apoptotic protein), heat shock protein 70 (stress-induced anti-apoptotic protein), and citrate synthase activity (mitochondrial enzyme). We propose that the presence of exon 1 of the mutant HD gene induces profound changes in striatal neurons that render these cells resistant to excessive NMDA receptor activation.
Intraspinal and behavioral events were studied in adult rats with nociceptive nerves that were undergoing collateral sprouting into adjacent denervated skin. This sprouting, which is driven by endogenous nerve growth factor (NGF), did not cause hyperalgesia. For comparison, we studied an exogenous NGF administration that induced hyperalgesia but was too brief to evoke sprouting. When nociceptive nerves sprouted in skin, back-labeling with wheat germ agglutinin-conjugated horseradish peroxidase revealed that their projections sprouted in the cord. The sprouted peripheral nerves now activated more c-Fos-containing interneurons, which stimulus-response studies showed was not due to an increased afferent discharge. We attribute the interneuron recruitment to synaptogenesis following the intraspinal sprouting. Nociceptive stimulation of dorsal skin reflexly activates underlying cutaneous trunci muscle (CTM). When a nociceptive field expanded by nerve sprouting, so did the area of the evoked CTM reflex: this implies a recruitment of CTM motoneurons. We interpret this &quot;matching&quot; of response to stimulus as an adaptive phenomenon ensured by an adaptive intraspinal sprouting of the nociceptive projections. Neither the intraspinal changes nor the reflex changes occurred if peripheral sprouting was blocked by systemic anti-NGF treatment, indicating that the role of endogenous NGF was only in that sprouting. No comparable adaptive events occurred during NGF-induced hyperalgesia. Neither nociceptive fields nor CTM reflexes were affected; however there was a recruitment of c-Fos-expressing interneurons. This recruitment was not explained by peripheral sensitization, and, because sprouting was not involved here, we attribute the recruitment to &quot;synaptic unmasking,&quot; i.e., an increased effectiveness of the preexisting excitatory circuitry.
Estrogens are an important class of steroid hormones, having multiple targets, in the body and brain, and exerting ubiquitous effects on behavior. At present, two estrogen receptors (ERalpha and beta) have been cloned and sequenced in mammals. In the brain these receptors are regionally specific, but both have widespread distributions, which are largely non-overlapping. Given the newly emerging complexities of estrogen's mechanisms of action it is important to distinguish which pathways are involved in modifying which behaviors. We use a knockout mouse, lacking functional copies of the estrogen receptor alpha (ERalpha) gene, to study the mechanisms by which estrogens mediate behaviors. There are pronounced ramifications of ERalpha gene disruption on behavior. First, female ERalpha knockout (ERalphaKO) mice do not display normal feminine sexual behavior. Second, treatment of adult mice with androgens promotes masculine sexual behavior in both sexes. However, male-typical sexual behavior is severely compromised in male and female ERalphaKOs. Third, male ERalphaKOs do not exhibit the same social preferences for female mice as do wildtype (WT) littermates. Thus, the ERalpha is essential for normal expression of sexual behaviors. In addition, gonadectomized ERalphaKO and WT mice rapidly learn to escape from the Morris water maze. Exogenous estrogen treatment prevents WT females from learning this task, yet, has no effect in ERalphaKO mice, suggesting that estrogens effects on learning in adult females involves the ERalpha. Based on these data we hypothesize that ERalpha mediates many of the effects of estrogen on sexual behavior, learning, and memory.
One goal of neuroscience is to define the molecular and cellular basis for behavior and neurological diseases. A novel approach to this problem is based on the use of viral vectors to transfect specific genes into specific brain cell populations. This review focuses on herpes simplex-based vectors. Major advances have recently been made to improve the characteristics of these vectors, in particular to reduce their toxicity, to modulate the greatness and the time-course of transgene expression, to precisely target specific cell populations, and to transfer multiple genes. Much remains to be done to obtain robust and prolonged transgene expression. However, specific alterations in the behavior and in disease models have already been described following the herpes simplex vector-mediated expression of specific genes within highly localized brain areas. Therefore, this research strategy is likely to provide new clues on the cellular and molecular basis of behavior and of neurological diseases.
Ser-473 is solely phosphorylated in vivo in the tail region of neurofilament L (NF-L). With peptides including the native phosphorylation site, it was not possible to locate responsible kinases. We therefore adopted full-length dephosphorylated NF-L as the substrate, and employed MALDI/TOF (matrix-assisted laser desorption and ionization/time of flight) mass spectrometry and a site-specific phosphorylation-dependent antibody recognizing Ser-473 phosphorylation. The antibody showed that casein kinase I (CK I) as well as casein kinase II (CK II) phosphorylated Ser-473 in vitro, while neither GSK-3beta nor calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II did so. However, the mass spectra of the tail fragments of the phosphorylated NF-L indicated that CK II was the kinase mediating Ser-473 phosphorylation in vitro as opposed to CK I, because CK I phosphorylated another site as well as Ser-473 in vitro. The antibody also demonstrated that NF-L phosphorylated at Ser-473 was abundant in the neuronal perikarya of the rat cortex, indicating that phosphorylation of Ser-473 may take place there. This result may support the suggestion that CK II is the kinase responsible for Ser-473 phosphorylation. Despite many reports showing that CK I mediates phosphorylation of neurofilaments, CK II may phosphorylate NF-L in vivo.
Src class protein-tyrosine kinases bind to and phosphorylate the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor of skeletal muscle. This study provided evidence for the functional importance of Src kinases in regulating the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor at the neuromuscular junction. Three Src class kinases, Fyn, Fyk, and Src, each formed a complex with the endplate-specific cytoskeletal protein rapsyn. In addition, cellular phosphorylation by each kinase was stimulated by rapsyn in heterologous transfected cells. Several lines of evidence supported rapsyn as a substrate for Src kinases. Most importantly, rapsyn regulation of Fyn, Fyk, and Src resulted in phosphorylation of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor beta and delta subunits and anchoring of the receptor to the cytoskeleton. Both nicotinic acetylcholine receptor phosphorylation and cytoskeletal anchoring were blocked by the Src kinase-selective inhibitor herbimycin A. Rapsyn alone also induced a modest increase in nicotinic acetylcholine receptor phosphorylation and cytoskeletal translocation. However, inhibition by herbimycin A and a catalytically inactive dominant negative Src demonstrated that the effects of rapsyn were mediated by endogenous Src kinases. These data support the importance of Src class kinases for stabilization of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor at the endplate during synaptic differentiation at the neuromuscular junction.
The activation of T-lymphocytes is dependent upon, and accompanied by, an increase in voltage-gated K+ conductance. Kv1.3, a Shaker family K+ channel protein, appears to play an essential role in the activation of peripheral human T cells. Although Kv1.3-mediated K+ currents increase markedly during the activation process in mice, and to a lesser degree in humans, Kv1.3 mRNA levels in these organisms do not, indicating post-transcriptional regulation. In other tissues Shaker K+ channel proteins physically associate with cytoplasmic beta-subunits (Kvbeta1-3). Recently it has been shown that Kvbeta1 and Kvbeta2 are expressed in mouse T cells and that they are up-regulated during mitogen-stimulated activation. In this study, we show that the human Kvbeta subunits substantially increase K+ current amplitudes when coexpressed with their Kv1.3 counterpart, and that unlike in mouse, protein levels of human Kvbeta2 remain constant upon activation. Differences in Kvbeta2 expression between mice and humans may explain the differential K+ conductance increases which accompany T-cell proliferation in these organisms.
Recent positron emission tomography (PET) and electroencephalographic (EEG) studies suggest that higher ability in a cognitive task is associated with a more efficient neuronal processing of this task. However, the validity and generalizability of these studies is limited for several reasons. We investigated 20 male and 18 female human subjects with good vs. poor spatial ability performing a visuo-spatial task (cube test). Processing-related slow event-related potentials were recorded via 22 electrodes, evenly distributed over the scalp. Significant differences between good and poor performers were found in both sexes: poor subjects showed higher activity in the parietal region, and their topography was more extended into fronto-central regions. Since the amount and topography of brain activity may vary considerably depending on subjects' ability, we conclude that careful (experimental) control of task-specific ability of subjects is mandatory for cognitive neuroscience studies.

Embryonic neural tissue obtained from other species has been considered as a donor tissue source in repair strategies for human neurodegenerative disorders. The neuro- and immunobiology of distantly related species combinations, discordant xenografts, need to be characterised. For this purpose, a small animal model would be an important research tool. Adult guinea-pigs, and adult rats as controls, received intrastriatal grafts of either mouse or rat embryonic ventral mesencephalic tissue. The survival rates and types of host immune response were assessed at 2 weeks after grafting using stereological techniques and semi-quantitative evaluations. In the mouse-to-guinea-pig group, all transplants were rejected and no tyrosine hydroxylase-immuno reactive (TH-IR) cells remained. In the rat-to-guinea-pig group, there was good survival of TH-IR cells (5050 SEM+/-1550), similar to that in the rat-to-rat group (4900 SEM+/-1540). In the mouse-to-rat group, half of the animals had no surviving TH-IR cells (520 SEM+/-230 for the whole group). These species combinations offer inexpensive, efficient, and suitable conditions to study important survival factors for discordant xenogeneic neural tissue transplants. The factors responsible for the divergent graft outcomes between the two combinations might provide clues on how to manipulate xenogeneic tissue to increase survival rates in the future.
The aim of the present study is to examine the neuronal degeneration and the glial response following intracranial transection of the facial nerve close to the brainstem and furthermore to compare the results with a distal nerve injury. The facial nerve was cut either intracranially in the posterior cranial fossa or further distally, where it passes the parotid gland, in adult rats. Intracranial axotomy caused a massive loss of neuronal profiles. Only 26.8+/-11.3% of facial motor neuronal profiles were found ipsilateral to the nerve injury when compared to the contralateral side, following intracranial axotomy. This was statistically significant in comparison to the distal injury (72.4+/-9.5%), 4 weeks post-lesion. Reactive microglial cells expressed ED1 immunoreactivity following the intracranial axotomy but not following the distal nerve injury. In conclusion, there was a large discrepancy in neuronal degeneration as well as presence of phagocytic (ED1 positive) microglia between the two lesions. The intracranial lesion model used in the present study generates a massive neuronal cell death and should therefore be a useful tool for studies on proximal cranial nerve injuries and in particular mechanisms causing cell death, which may occur following, for example, head trauma.
Radial glial cells are now recognized as a transient population that serves as scaffolding for neuronal migration. The recognition of the existence and role of radial glia has not been smooth, and here we provide a brief historical overview on the pioneering studies on this subject. The histologists and embryologists Albert Klliker and Wilhelm His performed seminal investigations on cortical morphogenesis in the last decades of the 19th century. However, the introduction of the silver impregnation Golgi technique, and its diffusion in the late 1880s, played a crucial role in the detection of radial glial processes. The radial arrangement of fibers emerging from the neuroepithelium lining the central canal was initially detected in the embryonic spinal cord by Camillo Golgi himself. The first Golgi impregnation of the cerebral cortex of mammalian fetuses was performed by Giuseppe Magini, who detected radial fibers extending from the ventricular neuroepithelium, and observed cells intercalated along these processes. Radial fibers, regarded as epithelial or ependymal processes, were then observed in the developing spinal cord and cerebral cortex by several investigators. Santiago Ramn y Cajal was the first to suggest that radial fibers were modified astrocytic processes functioning as a support during cortical histogenesis. Cajal acknowledged Magini's findings, but he criticized Magini's observations on the existence of neurons along radial fibers. With the advent of electron microscopy, the existence of radially arranged glial processes along which young neurons migrate was finally ascertained in the early 1970s by Pasko Rakic, thus opening a new era in the cellular and molecular biology of radial glia.
After the requirement of pseudocycle formation in the ureas 3 and 7 for hD(4) binding and selectivity was confirmed, structural hybridization with the known hD(4) ligand 2 led to the design and identification of the lead 4-(2-oxo-1, 3-dihydroimidazol-2-yl)piperidine 8. Optimization studies were carried out on 8 with the aim of achieving 1000-fold selectivity for hD(4) over all other receptors while retaining the good pharmacokinetic properties of the lead. After initial preparation of 8 as a minor component in a low-yielding reaction, a novel and regioselective &quot;four-step/one-pot&quot; procedure was developed which proved to be applicable to rapid investigation of the SAR of the 1, 3-dihydroimidazol-2-one ring. Various changes to substituents attached to the 3-, 4-, or 5-position of the 1, 3-dihydroimidazol-2-one core of 8 did not significantly improve selectivity for hD(4) over hD(2) and hD(3). Greater selectivity (&gt;1000-fold) was ultimately achieved by meta substitution of the benzyl group of 8 with various substituents. Compounds 28, 31, and 32 all possess the required selectivity for hD(4) over the other dopamine subtypes, but only 32 has &gt;1000-fold selectivity over all the key counterscreens we tested against. Compound 32 is an antagonist at hD(4) and has a good pharmacokinetic profile in the rat, with excellent estimated in vivo receptor occupancy, thus making it a potentially useful pharmacological tool to investigate the role of the D(4) receptor.
Targeted mutagenesis in mice demonstrates that the POU-domain gene Brn4/Pou3f4 plays a crucial role in the patterning of the mesenchymal compartment of the inner ear. Brn4 is expressed extensively throughout the condensing mesenchyme of the developing inner ear. Mutant animals displayed behavioral anomalies that resulted from functional deficits in both the auditory and vestibular systems, including vertical head bobbing, changes in gait, and hearing loss. Anatomical analyses of the temporal bone, which is derived in part from the otic mesenchyme, demonstrated several dysplastic features in the mutant animals, including enlargement of the internal auditory meatus. Many phenotypic features of the mutant animals resulted from the reduction or thinning of the bony compartment of the inner ear. Histological analyses demonstrated a hypoplasia of those regions of the cochlea derived from otic mesenchyme, including the spiral limbus, the scala tympani, and strial fibrocytes. Interestingly, we observed a reduction in the coiling of the cochlea, which suggests that Brn-4 plays a role in the epithelial-mesenchymal communication necessary for the cochlear anlage to develop correctly. Finally, the stapes demonstrated several malformations, including changes in the size and morphology of its footplate. Because the stapes anlage does not express the Brn4 gene, stapes malformations suggest that the Brn4 gene also plays a role in mesenchymal-mesenchymal signaling. On the basis of these data, we suggest that Brn-4 enhances the survival of mesodermal cells during the mesenchymal remodeling that forms the mature bony labyrinth and regulates inductive signaling mechanisms in the otic mesenchyme.
Odor adaptation in vertebrate olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs) is commonly attributed to feedback modulation caused by Ca(2+) entry through the transduction channels, but it remains unclear and controversial whether this Ca(2+)-mediated adaptation resides in the cAMP-gated channel alone or whether other molecules of the transduction cascade are modulated as well. Attenuation of adenylyl cyclase activity by Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) has also been proposed as a mechanism for adaptation. To test this in intact ORNs, we have compared the properties of adaptation induced by a sustained (8 sec) or brief (100 msec) odor stimulus. Although adaptation induced by both types of stimuli occurs downstream from the odor receptors and is Ca(2+)-dependent, only adaptation induced by a sustained pulse involves alterations in the odor response kinetics, consistent with a reduction in the rate of adenylyl cyclase activation. By disrupting CaMKII to block adenylyl cyclase attenuation using a specific peptide inhibitor of CaMKII, autocamtide-2-related inhibitory peptide (AIP), we show that this reaction is necessary for odor adaptation in vivo. With CaMKII disrupted, adaptation induced by a sustained stimulus is significantly impaired: the onset rate of adaptation is decreased by threefold, and the recovery rate from adaptation is increased by up to sixfold. In contrast, adaptation induced by a brief odor pulse is unaffected, demonstrating that the effect of AIP must be highly specific. The results indicate that CaMKII controls the temporal response properties of ORNs during odor adaptation. We propose that CaMKII plays a prominent role in odor perception.
The medial septal region and the hippocampus are connected reciprocally via GABAergic neurons, but the physiological role of this loop is still not well understood. In an attempt to reveal the physiological effects of the hippocamposeptal GABAergic projection, we cross-correlated hippocampal sharp wave (SPW) ripples or theta activity and extracellular units recorded in the medial septum and diagonal band of Broca (MSDB) in freely moving rats. The majority of single MSDB cells (60%) were significantly suppressed during SPWs. Most cells inhibited during SPW (80%) fired rhythmically and phase-locked to the negative peak of the CA1 pyramidal layer theta waves. Because both SPW and the negative peak of local theta waves correspond to the maximum discharge probability of CA1 pyramidal cells and interneuron classes, the findings indicate that the activity of medial septal neurons can be negatively (during SPW) or positively (during theta waves) correlated with the activity of hippocampal interneurons. We hypothesize that the functional coupling between medial septal neurons and hippocampal interneurons varies in a state-dependent manner.
Phenylalanine hydroxylase (Pah)-deficient &quot;PKU mice&quot; have a mutation in the Pah gene that causes phenylketonuria (PKU) in humans. PKU produces cognitive deficits in humans if it is untreated. We report here the first evidence that the genetic mouse model of PKU (Pah(enu2)) also produces cognitive impairments. PKU mice were impaired on both odor discrimination reversal and latent learning compared with heterozygote littermates and with wild-type mice of the same BTBR strain. A small container of cinnamon-scented sand was presented on the right or left, and nutmeg-scented sand was presented on the other side; left-right location varied over trials. Digging in sand of the correct scent was rewarded by finding phenylalanine-free chocolate. To prevent scent cuing, new containers were used on every trial, and both containers always contained chocolate. Digging in the incorrect choice was stopped before the chocolate was uncovered. Once criterion was reached, the other scent was rewarded. PKU mice were impaired on reversals 2, 3, and 4. They were also impaired in latent learning. On day 1, half the mice were allowed to explore a maze and discover the location of water. On day 2, all mice were water-deprived and were placed in the maze. Whereas pre-exposed wild-type and heterozygous mice showed evidence that they remembered the location of the water and hence could find the water faster on day 2, pre-exposed PKU mice showed no significant benefit from their pre-exposure on day 1.
We have examined the effects of chronic voluntary running for 30 d on the levels of nerve growth factor inducilble-B (NGFI-B) and neuron-derived orphan receptor 1 (NOR1) mRNAs in Fischer and Lewis rats. The aim was to compare the addiction-prone Lewis rat strain to the Fischer strain in a plausible model for natural reward. The Lewis strain ran markedly more than the Fischer strain, as indicated by the length of running per day when given free access to running wheels. Both strains progressively increased their amount of daily running. By day 14, Lewis rats had reached a maximal level corresponding to 10 km/d, which slowly decreased to approximately 8 km/d. Fischer rats ran considerably less, averaging approximately 1. 5 km/d by day 30. After 30 d of running, levels of mRNA encoding NGFI-B and Nor1 were decreased in cerebral cortex in Lewis but not Fischer rats. The downregulation of NGFI-B mRNA in Lewis rats could not be attenuated by the opioid receptor antagonist naloxone. Instead, naloxone by itself downregulated NGFI-B in striatum and cerebral cortex in both strains. In contrast, naloxone had no effect on Nor1 mRNA levels, although the running-induced downregulation of Nor1 was, in most cases, attenuated by naloxone. Data from the present study suggest that the same genetic factors contributing to the drug addiction-prone behavior of Lewis rats also control the excessive running behavior and that this coincides with downregulation of transcription factors of the NGFI-B family.
In an attempt to characterize the contribution of the 5-HT1B receptor to behavior, 5-HT1B knock-out (KO) mice were subjected to a battery of behavioral paradigms aimed at differentiating various components of cognitive and emotional behaviors. In an object exploration task, wild-type (WT) and 5-HT1B KO mice did not differ in locomotor activity. 5-HT1B KO mice, however, displayed lower thigmotaxis (an index of anxiety) associated with a higher level of object exploratory activity, but no genotype differences were observed in the elevated plus maze. 5-HT1B KO mice also displayed a lack of exploratory habituation. In the spatial version of the Morris water maze, 5-HT1B KO mice showed higher performances in acquisition and transfer test, which was not observed in the visual version of the task. No genotype differences were found in contextual fear conditioning, because both WT and 5-HT1B KO mice were able to remember the context where they had received the aversive stimulus. The deletion of the 5-HT1B receptor, associated with appropriate behavioral paradigms, thus allowed us to dissociate anxiety from response to novelty, and perseverative behavior (lack of habituation) from adaptive behavioral inhibition underlying cognitive flexibility (transfer stage in the water maze). The deletion of the 5-HT1B receptor did not result in significant developmental plasticities for other major 5-HT receptor types but may have influenced other neurotransmission systems. The 5-HT1B receptor may be a key target for serotonin in the modulation of cognitive behavior, particularly in situations involving a high cognitive demand.
Brightness changes can be induced in a static gray field by modulating the luminance of surrounding areas. We used this induction phenomenon to investigate the neural representation of perceived brightness. Extracellular recordings were made in striate cortex, the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN), and the optic tract of anesthetized cats using stimuli that produced brightness induction. While a cell's receptive field (RF) was covered by uniform gray illumination, the luminance of rectangular flanking regions was modulated sinusoidally in time, inducing brightness changes in the RF. We looked for a correspondence between the modulation of a cell's response and stimulus conditions that did or did not produce perceptual changes in brightness. We found that the responses of retinal ganglion cell axons in the optic tract were never correlated with brightness. On the other hand, many neurons in striate cortex and a small fraction in the LGN responded in a phase-locked manner at the temporal frequency of the flank modulation, even though the flanks were 3-7 degrees beyond the edges of the RF. Only in striate cortex were cells found that had responses correlated with brightness under all stimulus conditions. These findings suggest that brightness information is explicitly represented in the responses of neurons in striate cortex as part of a neural representation of object surfaces.
Vibration at approximately 70 Hz on the biceps tendon elicits a vivid illusory arm extension. Nobody has examined which areas in the brain are activated when subjects perceive this kinesthetic illusion. The illusion was hypothesized to originate from activations of somatosensory areas normally engaged in kinesthesia. The locations of the microstructurally defined cytoarchitectonic areas of the primary motor (4a and 4p) and primary somatosensory cortex (3a, 3b, and 1) were obtained from population maps of these areas in standard anatomical format. The regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) was measured with (15)O-butanol and positron emission tomography in nine subjects. The left biceps tendon was vibrated at 10 Hz (LOW), at 70 or 80 Hz (ILLUSION), or at 220 or 240 Hz (HIGH). A REST condition with eyes closed was included in addition. Only the 70 and 80 Hz vibrations elicited strong illusory arm extensions in all subjects without any electromyographic activity in the arm muscles. When the rCBF of the ILLUSION condition was contrasted to the LOW and HIGH conditions, we found two clusters of activations, one in the supplementary motor area (SMA) extending into the caudal cingulate motor area (CMAc) and the other in area 4a extending into the dorsal premotor cortex (PMd) and area 4p. When LOW, HIGH, and ILLUSION were contrasted to REST, giving the main effect of vibration, areas 4p, 3b, and 1, the frontal and parietal operculum, and the insular cortex were activated. Thus, with the exception of area 4p, the effects of vibration and illusion were associated with disparate cortical areas. This indicates that the SMA, CMAc, PMd, and area 4a were activated associated with the kinesthetic illusion. Thus, against our expectations, motor areas rather than somatosensory areas seem to convey the illusion of limb movement.
We have investigated the hormonal and hypothalamic neuropeptidergic substrates of dehydration-associated anorexia. In situ hybridization and hormone analyses of anorexic and paired food-restricted rats revealed two distinct profiles. First, both groups had the characteristic gene expression and endocrine signatures usually associated with starvation: increased neuropeptide Y and decreased proopiomelanocortin and neurotensin mRNAs in the arcuate nucleus (ARH); increased circulating glucocorticoid but reduced leptin and insulin. Dehydrated animals are strongly anorexic despite these attributes, showing that the output of leptin- and insulin-sensitive ARH neurons that ordinarily stimulate eating must be inhibited. The second pattern occurred only in anorexic animals and had two components: (1) reduced corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) mRNA in the neuroendocrine paraventricular nucleus (PVH) and (2) increased CRH and neurotensin mRNAs in the lateral hypothalamic (LHA) and retrochiasmatic areas. However, neither corticosterone nor suppressed PVH CRH gene expression is required for anorexia after dehydration because PVH CRH mRNA in dehydrated adrenalectomized animals is unchanged from euhydrated adrenalectomized controls. We also showed that LHA CRH mRNA was strongly correlated with the intensity of anorexia, increased LHA CRH gene expression preceded the onset of anorexia, and dehydrated adrenalectomized animals (which also develop anorexia) had elevated LHA CRH gene expression with a distribution pattern similar to intact animals. Finally, we identified specific efferents from the CRH-containing region of the LHA to the PVH, thereby providing a neuroanatomical framework for the integration by the PVH of neuropeptidergic signals from the ARH and the LHA. Together, these observations suggest that CRH and neurotensin neurons in the LHA constitute a novel anatomical substrate for their well known anorexic effects.
Mounting evidence indicates that extracellular factors exert proliferative effects on neurogenetic precursors in vivo. Recently we found that systemic levels of basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) regulate neurogenesis in the brain of newborn rats, with factors apparently crossing the blood-brain barrier (BBB) to stimulate mitosis. To determine whether peripheral bFGF affects proliferation during adulthood, we focused on regions in which neurogenesis persists into maturity, the hippocampus and the forebrain subventricular zone (SVZ). In postnatal day 1 (P1) rats, 8 hr after subcutaneous injection (5 ng/gm body weight), bFGF increased [(3)H]thymidine incorporation 70% in hippocampal and SVZ homogenates and elicited twofold increases in mitotic nuclei in the dentate gyrus and the dorsolateral SVZ, detected by bromodeoxyuridine immunohistochemistry. Because approximately 25% of proliferating hippocampal cells stimulated in vivo expressed neuronal traits in culture, bFGF-induced mitosis may reflect increased neurogenesis. bFGF effects were not restricted to the perinatal period; hippocampal DNA synthesis was stimulated by peripheral factor in older animals (P7-P21), indicating the persistence of bFGF-responsive cells and activity of peripheral bFGF into late development. To begin defining underlying mechanisms, pharmacokinetic studies were performed in P28 rats; bFGF transferred from plasma to CSF rapidly, levels rising in both compartments in parallel, indicating that peripheral factor crosses the BBB during maturity. Consequently, we tested bFGF in adults; peripheral bFGF increased the number of mitotic nuclei threefold in the SVZ and olfactory tract, regions exhibiting persistent neurogenesis. Our observations suggest that bFGF regulates ongoing neurogenesis via a unique, endocrine-like pathway, potentially coordinating neuron number and body growth, and potentially providing new approaches for treating damaged brain during development and adulthood.
Neural progenitor cells obtained from the embryonic human forebrain were expanded up to 10(7)-fold in culture in the presence of epidermal growth factor, basic fibroblast growth factor, and leukemia inhibitory growth factor. When transplanted into neurogenic regions in the adult rat brain, the subventricular zone, and hippocampus, the in vitro propagated cells migrated specifically along the routes normally taken by the endogenous neuronal precursors: along the rostral migratory stream to the olfactory bulb and within the subgranular zone in the dentate gyrus, and exhibited site-specific neuronal differentiation in the granular and periglomerular layers of the bulb and in the dentate granular cell layer. The cells exhibited substantial migration also within the non-neurogenic region, the striatum, in a seemingly nondirected manner up to approximately 1-1.5 mm from the graft core, and showed differentiation into both neuronal and glial phenotypes. Only cells with glial-like features migrated over longer distances within the mature striatum, whereas the cells expressing neuronal phenotypes remained close to the implantation site. The ability of the human neural progenitors to respond in vivo to guidance cues and signals that can direct their differentiation along multiple phenotypic pathways suggests that they can provide a powerful and virtually unlimited source of cells for experimental and clinical transplantation.
Ca(2+)-permeable AMPA receptors may play a key role during developmental neuroplasticity, learning and memory, and neuronal loss in a number of neuropathologies. However, the intracellular signaling pathways used by AMPA receptors during such processes are not fully understood. The mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascade is an attractive target because it has been shown to be involved in gene expression, synaptic plasticity, and neuronal stress. Using primary cultures of mouse striatal neurons and a phosphospecific MAPK antibody we addressed whether AMPA receptors can activate the MAPK cascade. We found that in the presence of cyclothiazide, AMPA caused a robust and direct (no involvement of NMDA receptors or L-type voltage-sensitive Ca(2+) channels) Ca(2+)-dependent activation of MAPK through MAPK kinase (MEK). This activation was blocked by GYKI 53655, a noncompetitive selective antagonist of AMPA receptors. Probing the mechanism of this activation revealed an essential role for phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI 3-kinase) and the involvement of a pertussis toxin (PTX)-sensitive G-protein, a Src family protein tyrosine kinase, and Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent kinase II. Similarly, kainate activated MAPK in a PI 3-kinase-dependent manner. AMPA receptor-evoked neuronal death and arachidonic acid mobilization did not appear to involve signaling through the MAPK pathway. However, AMPA receptor stimulation led to a Ca(2+)-dependent phosphorylation of the nuclear transcription factor CREB, which could be prevented by inhibitors of MEK or PI 3-kinase. Our results indicate that Ca(2+)-permeable AMPA receptors transduce signals from the cell surface to the nucleus of neurons through a PI 3-kinase-dependent activation of MAPK. This novel pathway may play a pivotal role in regulating synaptic plasticity in the striatum.
We have recently reported that minimally disturbed adult CNS white matter can support regeneration of adult axons by using a novel microtransplantation technique to inject minute volumes of dissociated adult rat dorsal root ganglion neurons directly into adult rat CNS pathways (Davies et al., 1997). This atraumatic injection procedure minimized scarring and allowed considerable numbers of regenerating adult axons immediate access to the adult CNS glial terrain where they rapidly extended for long distances. A critical question remained as to whether degenerating white matter at acute and chronic stages (up to 3 months) after injury could still support regeneration. To investigate this, we have microtransplanted adult sensory neurons into degenerating white matter of the adult rat spinal cord several millimeters rostral to a severe lesion of the dorsal columns. Regeneration of donor sensory axons in both directions away from the site of transplantation was robust even within white matter undergoing fulminant Wallerian degeneration despite intimate contact with myelin. Along their route, the regrowing axons extended large numbers of collaterals into the adjacent dorsal horn. However, after entering the lesion, the rapidly extending growth cones stopped and became dystrophic within high concentrations of reactive glial matrix. Our results offer compelling evidence that the major environmental impediment to regeneration in the adult CNS is the molecular barrier that forms directly at the lesion site, and that degenerating white matter beyond the glial scar has a far greater intrinsic ability to support axon regeneration than previously thought possible.
4-Aminopyridine (4-AP) is a well known convulsant that enhances the release of both excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmitters in the CNS. Low concentrations of 4-AP (approximately 100 microM) readily induce synchronized discharges in the hippocampus that are blocked by tetrodotoxin (TTX), suggesting that they require Na(+)-dependent action potentials in addition to the enhanced release of neurotransmitters. However, in the present study we have found that higher concentrations of 4-AP (1 mM) in combination with 5 mM tetraethylammonium (TEA) induce spontaneous synchronized discharges in rat hippocampal slices that are resistant to blockade by TTX. These synchronous discharges are evident in field potential recordings, which progress from the hilus to CA1 at 0.023 +/- 0.002 m/sec and in intracellular recordings from the hilar mossy cells and CA3 pyramidal cells. In some slices exposed to 4-AP and TEA, smaller-amplitude asynchronous responses also were recorded. 4-AP-induced spontaneous discharges are blocked by 20 microM DNQX and by 100 microM Cd(2+) but are resistant to blockade by either 25 microM bicuculline or 25 microM D-APV. These results suggest that the activation of postsynaptic AMPA receptors is necessary to produce TTX-resistant synchronized discharges. The laminar profile of field potentials recorded in CA3 and CA1 suggests that glutamate is released from axons of CA3 pyramidal cells despite the blockade of fast axonal Na(+) channels by TTX. Synchronous discharges may result from glutamate released at proximal recurrent collaterals after spontaneous Ca(2+) spikes in CA3 pyramidal cells.
Inhibition is crucial for the thalamus to relay sensory information from the periphery to the cortex and to participate in thalamocortical oscillations. However, the properties of inhibitory synaptic events in interneurons are poorly defined because in part of the technical difficulty of obtaining stable recording from these small cells. With the whole-cell recording technique, we obtained stable recordings from local interneurons in the lateral geniculate nucleus and studied their inhibitory synaptic properties. We found that interneurons expressed three different types of GABA receptors: bicuculline-sensitive GABA(A) receptors, bicuculline-insensitive GABA(A) receptors, and GABA(B) receptors. The reversal potentials of GABA responses were estimated by polarizing the membrane potential. The GABA(A) receptor-mediated responses had a reversal potential of approximately -82 mV, consistent with mediation via Cl(-) channels. The reversal potential for the GABA(B) response was -97 mV, consistent with it being a K(+) conductance. The roles of these GABA receptors in postsynaptic responses were also examined in interneurons. Optic tract stimulation evoked a disynaptic IPSP that was mediated by all three types of GABA receptors and depended on activation of geniculate interneurons. Stimulation of the thalamic reticular nucleus evoked an IPSP, which appeared to be mediated exclusively by bicuculline-sensitive GABA(A) receptors and depended on the activation of reticular cells. The results indicate that geniculate interneurons form a complex neuronal circuitry with thalamocortical and reticular cells via feed-forward and feedback circuits, suggesting that they play a more important role in thalamic function than thought previously.
In the last few years, fractal analysis has found widespread application in the field of neuroscience and some investigators are starting to use multifractals as a methodology that may provide information about the distribution of fractal dimensions in biological structures. This is so, despite of the technical difficulties of multifractal analysis. In this paper, we investigate the theoretical and practical aspects of studying and measuring the multifractal dimensions of neurons. Patterns were analysed by means of the standard box-counting method and a generalised sand-box method. Our results show that odd behaviours of Dq reported in the literature are a consequence of numerical deficiencies of the box-counting method and cannot be associated to peculiar geometrical characteristics of neurons. Instead the sand-box method gives a Dq which monotonically decreases with q. Although this result may indicate that neurons are multifractals, it is argued that size effects may in fact be the origin of this apparent multifractality.
A multi-purpose software system is described for controlling a variety of tasks used in experiments on behaving monkeys and humans. It involved two programs, a real-time unit and a task editor. The former used editable pixel maps flashed on a computer screen as visual stimuli and operated according to a control list of trial parameters specifying the various components of each trial in the behavioural session. It involved an interrupt-driven driver interface for clock control and response analysis, and a main code managing the session process, disk access and stimulus display. The task editor was used to generate the list of trial parameters and edit the pixel-map of signals. It generated a task file used by the real-time unit. Experimental manipulations could be implemented through the organisation of the behavioural session by trial types corresponding to the different behavioural conditions. The system's capabilities are illustrated by behavioural results from an attention task in which monkeys increased their attention as a function of task difficulty.
Recent evidence suggests that the oligodendrocyte cell loss observed in multiple sclerosis sufferers is in part mediated by apoptosis. Here we use a human cell line, MO3.13, as a model system to investigate the biochemical processes involved in oligodendroglial cell death. Treatment with staurosporine kills both naive and differentiated cells in a dose-dependent manner; however, much higher concentrations of staurosporine are required to kill differentiated cells compared to their naive progenitors. Dying cells displayed the typical morphological characteristics of apoptosis, including cell shrinkage and chromatin condensation. Biochemical analysis showed that caspases, a group of enzymes intimately involved in the execution of apoptosis, are activated in both naive and differentiated cells. Western blotting analysis revealed that similar subsets of caspase enzymes were operating and that the substrate cleavage patterns were identical in both naive and differentiated cells. Treatment of MO3.13 cells with the general caspase inhibitor zVAD-FMK protected them from toxin-induced cell death. These results indicate that when an oligodendroglial human cell line is exposed to toxin it dies in an apoptotic manner. In addition, we show that cells can be protected from toxin-induced death using an appropriate inhibitor.
Aging is associated with a decline in neuromuscular and somatosensory functions. Senile muscle atrophy, considered to be of neurogenic origin, is prevalent, and sensory thresholds increase with age. However, the loss of motoneurons and primary sensory neurons is small, while sensory and motor innervation appears disturbed due to aging-related axon lesions. One mechanism which may play a role in this process is altered trophin signaling. We here report that the glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) receptor GFRalpha-1 mRNA and GFRalpha-1 protein-like immunoreactivity are upregulated in spinal motoneurons, and in dorsal root ganglion neurons of 30-month-old rats. The established signaling mechanism for the GDNF/GFRalpha-1 complex is through binding to the tyrosine kinase receptor encoded by the c-ret proto-oncogene, and we also show here that c-ret mRNA is upregulated in both motoneurons and primary sensory neurons of aged rats. The findings reported here, combined with evidence presented in other studies of changes in p75(NTR) and trk receptor expressions in aging primary sensory neurons and motoneurons, point at marked alterations in trophin signaling in senescence.
The cardio-respiratory effects of cocaine were compared to various Na+ channel blocking Class I antiarrhythmics. Anesthetized rabbits were treated with various doses of either cocaine, quinidine, procainamide, lidocaine or flecainide. Cocaine produced clear decreases in blood pressure and heart rate. None of the other sodium channel blockers produced any change in blood pressure, and heart rate was decreased only slightly by procainamide and lidocaine. Cocaine produced larger increases in QRS duration than were observed for the four sodium channel blockers. All five drugs produced comparable increases in respiratory rate. Separate rabbits were pretreated with either the alpha-adrenoceptor antagonist phentolamine or the beta-adrenoceptor antagonist propranolol prior to cocaine. Phentolamine attenuated the blood pressure decrease following cocaine and propranolol attenuated the heart rate decrease following cocaine. These results suggest that the sodium channel blocking properties contribute only minimally to the overall effects of cocaine on blood pressure and heart rate. Further, the large effect of cocaine on QRS duration suggests that cocaine may act at sodium channels in a manner different from the other drugs. This unique effect of cocaine may contribute to the sudden death associated with cocaine use in some individuals.
Recent advances in neuroscience have enabled alcohol dependence to be investigated at cellular and molecular levels. Alcohol exerts biological effects by interacting with cell membranes and receptors, and modifies the function of proteins which regulate signal transduction, intracellular pathways, and gene expression. Adaptation to the acute effects of alcohol constitutes a major determinant of the development of increased tolerance, withdrawal syndrome and dependence. Important targets for alcohol include transmitter-regulated ion channels, receptors coupled to guanosine triphosphate-binding proteins, second messengers, and gene transcription factors. Studies of rodents bred for alcohol sensitivity or resistance have uncovered molecules of importance for the development of alcohol dependence, and certain ethanol-sensitive genes have been identified.


Until 1995, treatment of strokes consisted exclusively of efforts to prevent recurrence. Proof that tissue plasminogen activator is useful for acute management is changing the approach to stroke patients. The development process has been difficult and the current treatment recommendations have been controversial. Recent successful clinical trials lend additional credence to these concepts. Future treatment strategies will probably include combinations of thrombolytics and neuroprotectants of various types. However, the need to initiate treatment rapidly after stroke onset is likely to continue.
Although they are structurally similar, the two hemispheres of the human brain have many functional asymmetries. Some of these, such as language and motor control, have been well characterized. Others, such as visuospatial asymmetries, are less well understood. Many researchers have noted that the right hemisphere appears to be specialized for visuospatial processing. We investigated the abilities of the divided cerebral hemispheres of two callosotomy patients to perform discriminations based on spatial or identity information. The data revealed a robust right-hemisphere superiority for spatial judgments. In contrast, the left hemisphere was somewhat better than the right at making identity judgments. These results suggest that the right hemisphere is specialized for spatial processing, and the left is specialized for pattern recognition.
In a previous publication we showed that non-linear analysis can extract spatio-temporal changes of brain electrical activity prior to epileptic seizures. Here we describe a new method to analyze this long-term non-stationarity in the EEG by a measure of dynamical similarity between different parts of the time series. We apply this method to the study of a group of patients with temporal lobe epilepsy recorded intracranially during transitions to seizure. We show that the method, which can be implemented on a personal computer, can track in real time spatio-temporal changes in brain dynamics several minutes prior to seizure.
The effects of diagonal band (NDB) stimulation on the spontaneous discharge of pyramidal cells and evoked field potentials (FPs) in piriform cortex (PC) were investigated in vivo. NDB stimulation increased the spontaneous firing rate of PC cells, and increased the disynaptic excitatory (B1) and decreased the disynaptic inhibitory (P2) FP components following lateral olfactory tract (LOT) stimulation. NDB stimulation decreased the P2 component following activation of association fibers in caudal PC. NDB stimulation reduced the paired-pulse inhibition of the P2 component following LOT and caudal PC shocks. The effects of NDB stimulation were reversed by scopolamine, suggesting the involvement of muscarinic receptors. These results suggest that activation of cholinergic inputs to PC increases the excitability of pyramidal cells, probably by a disinhibitory mechanism.
Adenosine A2A, group I mGlu and neurotensin receptors have been previously found to modulate the binding characteristics of dopamine D2 receptors in membrane preparations from rat striatum. In the present study it is shown that stimulation of different combinations of striatal A2A, group I mGlu and neurotensin receptors induce different effects on the modulation of D2 receptor binding to those obtained when they are separately stimulated using maximal effective concentrations. In competitive inhibition experiments of dopamine versus the D2 receptor antagonist [3H]raclopride the addition of the A2A receptor agonist CGS 21680, the group I mGlu receptor agonist DHPG or neurotensin induced a decrease in the affinity of the high affinity state of the dopamine D2 receptors for dopamine. When added together CGS 21680 plus neurotensin induced the same effect as when administered alone, CGS 21680 plus DHPG induced a synergistic effect and DHPG plus neurotensin lost their modulating effect on D2 receptor binding. These results demonstrate the existence of multiple intramembrane receptor-receptor interactions in the regulation of striatal D2 receptors.
A special feature of the extracellular matrix in adult brains of various species is the concentration of certain components around different sub-populations of neurones, giving rise to net-like structures termed perineuronal nets. Recently, some of these components have been identified but the function of these nets has yet to be resolved. Using immunofluorescence microscopy, we report here that phosphacan, a chondroitin sulphate proteoglycan, is an additional component of Wisteria floribunda labelled perineuronal nets surrounding parvalbumin-expressing neurones in rat cerebral cortex. Glycoproteins such as tenascin-C and -R have been identified in perineuronal nets and the present detection of phosphacan immunoreactivity in the same entity is of potential physiological importance because of their previously described interactions.
Connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) is an immediate early growth-responsive gene but its distribution and significance in the central nervous system (CNS) are unknown. We investigated the distribution of CTGF-like immunoreactivity (CTGF-IR) in the rat CNS using a specific antiserum against CTGF oligopeptide. The majority of CTGF-IR was observed in astrocytes. Ependymal cells lining the wall of the cerebral ventricle and tanycytes lining the central canal of the spinal cord showed the strongest CTGF-IR, while there was a diffuse but weak signal in the gray matter of the spinal cord. CTGF-IR was also detected in the cytoplasm of a subpopulation of pyramidal neurons in the cerebral cortex. Our results showed that CTGF-IR is widely distributed in the CNS at both regional and cellular levels, suggesting a complex functional role in the CNS.
Rim protein (RmP) is an ABC transporter of unknown function in rod outer segment discs. The human gene for RmP (ABCR) is affected in several recessive retinal degenerations. Here, we characterize the ocular phenotype in abcr knockout mice. Mice lacking RmP show delayed dark adaptation, increased all-trans-retinaldehyde (all-trans-RAL) following light exposure, elevated phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) in outer segments, accumulation of the protonated Schiff base complex of all-trans-RAL and PE (N-retinylidene-PE), and striking deposition of a major lipofuscin fluorophore (A2-E) in retinal pigment epithelium (RPE). These data suggest that RmP functions as an outwardly directed flippase for N-retinylidene-PE. Delayed dark adaptation is likely due to accumulation in discs of the noncovalent complex between opsin and all-trans-RAL. Finally, ABCR-mediated retinal degeneration may result from &quot;poisoning&quot; of the RPE due to A2-E accumulation, with secondary photoreceptor degeneration due to loss of the RPE support role.
Antioxidants can improve nerve dysfunction in hyperglycaemic rats. We evaluated whether the standard supplementation of rat food with vitamin E (normally added for preservation purposes) or high-dose vitamin E treatment improves nerve conduction in maturing streptozotocin-diabetic rats, a model widely used to study diabetic neuropathy. Hyperglycaemic rats received food containing 25 mg/kg (non-supplemented), 70 mg/kg (standard food) or 12 g/kg (high-dose) vitamin E. Non-diabetic controls received non-supplemented food. Sciatic and tibial sensory and motor nerve conduction velocity were decreased in all diabetic animals. In comparison with standard feeding, the non-supplemented diabetic rats showed lower plasma vitamin E levels but no significant change in nerve conduction. High-dose treatment prevented nerve dysfunction by 50%, and led to attenuated endoneurial lipid peroxidation (measured as malondialdehyde). We conclude that high doses of vitamin E, but not standard vitamin E supplementation of rat food partially prevent nerve dysfunction in young adult streptozotocin-diabetic rats.
We have identified a novel protein (BERP) that is a specific partner for the tail domain of myosin V. Class V myosins are a family of molecular motors thought to interact via their unique C-terminal tails with specific proteins for the targeted transport of organelles. BERP is highly expressed in brain and contains an N-terminal RING finger, followed by a B-box zinc finger, a coiled-coil (RBCC domain), and a unique C-terminal beta-propeller domain. A yeast two-hybrid screening indicated that the C-terminal beta-propeller domain mediates binding to the tail of the class V myosin myr6 (myosin Vb). This interaction was confirmed by immunoprecipitation, which also demonstrated that BERP could associate with myosin Va, the product of the dilute gene. Like myosin Va, BERP is expressed in a punctate pattern in the cytoplasm as well as in the neurites and growth cones of PC12 cells. We also found that the RBCC domain of BERP is involved in protein dimerization. Stable expression of a mutant form of BERP lacking the myosin-binding domain but containing the dimerization domain resulted in defective PC12 cell spreading and prevented neurite outgrowth in response to nerve growth factor. Our studies present a novel interaction for the beta-propeller domain and provide evidence for a role for BERP in myosin V-mediated cargo transport.
Partial peripheral nerve injury often results in neuropathic pain that is aggravated by sympathetic excitation and induces sympathetic nerve sprouting in both the injured nerve and corresponding dorsal root ganglia (DRGs). Presently, the functional mechanisms of the interactions between the sprouting and injured somatic afferents remain uncertain. This study was performed to see whether the sprouting in the DRGs plays a key role in the development of neuropathic pain. To this aim, we compared two groups of rats, both of which were subjected to unilateral transection of the superior and inferior caudal trunks at the level between the S1 and S2 spinal nerves, with respect to sympathetic fiber sprouting; one group showed well-developed neuropathic pain behaviors (i.e. mechanical, cold and warm allodynia signs) and the other group showed poorly-developed ones. Immuno-histochemical staining with tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) antibody of the injured S1 DRG taken from both groups of rats after behavioral tests revealed that the magnitude of penetration of TH-positive fibers into the S1 DRG was not significantly different between the two groups. These results suggest that sympathetic nerve sprouting in the injured DRG is not a key factor in the development of neuropathic pain.
Autonomic evaluation using the heart rate spectrum is sensitive to changes in breathing parameters, but few studies using this technique have controlled both the rate and depth of breathing. Fewer still have also measured or controlled inspiration and expiration times, or end-tidal carbon dioxide. This study describes the development of a digital instrument that can be used to alter tidal volume, ventilation rate and the time of inspiration and expiration with paced breathing visual templates displayed on a computer monitor. The digital instrument runs during data acquisition and displays the ventilatory signal from the subject superimposed on the paced breathing templates. Thus, adjustment of ventilatory parameters is achieved by matching the actual breathing signal to the target template. By regulating the ventilation rate and the tidal volume, end-tidal carbon dioxide could be increased or decreased in small increments. This instrument provided ventilatory control to investigate the effects on the heart rate spectrum of breathing depth, ventilation rate, end-tidal carbon dioxide and the time of expiration.
Corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) is a central regulator of the hormonal stress response, causing stimulation of corticotropin and glucocorticoid secretion. CRH is also widely believed to mediate stress-induced behaviors, implying a broader, integrative role for the hormone in the psychological stress response. Mice lacking the CRH gene exhibit normal stress-induced behavior that is specifically blocked by a CRH type 1 receptor antagonist. The other known mammalian ligand for CRH receptors is urocortin. Normal and CRH-deficient mice have an identical distribution of urocortin mRNA, which is confined to the region of the Edinger-Westphal nucleus, and is absent from regions known to mediate stress-related behaviors. Since the Edinger-Westphal nucleus is not known to project to any brain regions believed to play a role in anxiety-like behavior, an entirely different pathway must be postulated for urocortin in the Edinger-Westphal nucleus to mediate these behaviors in CRH-deficient mice. Alternatively, an unidentified CRH-like molecule other than CRH or urocortin, acting through the CRH receptors in brain regions believed to mediate stress-induced behaviors, may mediate the behavioral response to stress, either alone or in concert with CRH.
The mammalian cochlea depends on an amplification process for its sensitivity and frequency-resolving capability. Outer hair cells are responsible for providing this amplification. It is usually assumed that the membrane-potential-driven somatic shape changes of these cells are the basis of the amplifying process. It is of interest to see whether mechanical reactance changes of the cells might accompany their changes in cell shape. We now show that the cylindrical outer hair cells change their axial stiffness as their membrane potential is altered. Cell stiffness was determined by optoelectronically measuring the amplitude of motion of a flexible vibrating fiber as it was loaded by the isolated cell. Voltage commands to the cell were delivered in a tight-seal whole-cell configuration. Cell stiffness was decreased by depolarization and increased by hyperpolarization.
HIV-1 glycoprotein gp120 induces injury and apoptosis in rodent and human neurons in vitro and in vivo and is therefore thought to contribute to HIV-associated dementia. In addition to CD4, different gp120 isolates bind to the alpha- or beta-chemokine receptors CXCR4 and CCR5, respectively. These and other chemokine receptors are on brain macrophages/microglia, astrocytes, and neurons. Thus, apoptosis could occur via direct interaction of gp120 with neurons, indirectly via stimulation of glia to release neurotoxic factors, or via both pathways. Here we show in rat cerebrocortical cultures that recapitulate the type and proportion of cells normally found in brain, i.e., neurons, astrocytes, and macrophages/microglia, that the beta-chemokines RANTES (regulated on activation, normal T cell expressed and secreted) and macrophage inflammatory protein (MIP-1beta) protect neurons from gp120SF2-induced apoptosis. The gp120SF2 isolate prefers binding to CXCR4 receptors, similar to the physiological alpha-chemokine ligands, stromal cell-derived factor (SDF)-1alpha/beta. SDF-1alpha/beta failed to prevent gp120SF2 neurotoxicity, and in fact also induced neuronal apoptosis. We could completely abrogate gp120SF2-induced neuronal apoptosis with the tripeptide TKP, which inhibits activation of macrophages/microglia. In contrast, TKP or depletion of macrophages/microglia did not prevent SDF-1 neurotoxicity. Inhibition of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase ameliorated both gp120SF2- and SDF-1-induced neuronal apoptosis. Taken together, these results suggest that gp120SF2 and SDF-1 differ in the cell type on which they stimulate CXCR4 to induce neuronal apoptosis, but both ligands use the p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway for death signaling. Moreover, gp120SF2-induced neuronal apoptosis depends predominantly on an indirect pathway via activation of chemokine receptors on macrophages/microglia, whereas SDF-1 may act directly on neurons or astrocytes.
The underlying bases of the considerable interindividual variability in pain-related traits are starting to be revealed. Although the relative importance of genes versus experience in human pain perception remains unclear, rodent populations display large and heritable differences in both nociceptive and analgesic sensitivity. The identification and characterization of particularly divergent populations provides a powerful initial step in the genetic analysis of pain, because these models can be exploited to identify genes contributing to the behavior-level variability. Ultimately, DNA sequence differences representing the differential alleles at pain-relevant genes can be identified. Thus, by using a combination of &quot;top-down&quot; and &quot;bottom-up&quot; strategies, we are now able to genetically dissect even complex biological traits like pain. The present review summarizes the current progress toward these ends in both humans and rodents.
To address the neurochemistry of the mechanisms that underlie the development of acute and persistent pain, our laboratory has been studying mice with deletions of gene products that have been implicated in nociceptive processing. We have recently raised mice with a deletion of the preprotachykinin-A gene, which encodes the peptides substance P (SP) and neurokinin A (NKA). These studies have identified a specific behavioral phenotype in which the animals do not detect a window of &quot;pain&quot; intensities; this window cuts across thermal, mechanical, and chemical modalities. The lowered thermal and mechanical withdrawal thresholds that are produced by tissue or nerve injury, however, were still present in the mutant mice. Thus, the behavioral manifestations of threshold changes in nociceptive processing in the setting of injury do not appear to require SP or NKA. To identify relevant neurochemical factors downstream of the primary afferent, we are also studying the dorsal horn second messenger systems that underlie the development of tissue and nerve injury-induced persistent pain states. We have recently implicated the gamma isoform of protein kinase C (PKCgamma) in the development of nerve injury-induced neuropathic pain. Acute pain processing, by contrast, is intact in the PKCgamma-null mice. Taken together, these studies emphasize that there is a distinct neurochemistry of acute and persistent pain. Persistent pain should be considered a disease state of the nervous system, not merely a prolonged acute pain symptom of some other disease conditions.
A limited midline myelotomy at T10 can relieve pelvic cancer pain in patients. This observation is explainable in light of strong evidence in support of the existence of a visceral pain pathway that ascends in the dorsal column (DC) of the spinal cord. In rats and monkeys, responses of neurons in the ventral posterolateral thalamic nucleus to noxious colorectal distention are dramatically reduced after a lesion of the DC at T10, but not by interruption of the spinothalamic tract. Blockade of transmission of visceral nociceptive signals through the rat sacral cord by microdialysis administration of morphine or 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione shows that postsynaptic DC neurons in the sacral cord transmit visceral nociceptive signals to the gracile nucleus. Retrograde tracing studies in rats demonstrate a concentration of postsynaptic DC neurons in the central gray matter of the L6-S1 spinal segments, and anterograde tracing studies show that labeled axons ascend from this region to the gracile nucleus. A similar projection from the midthoracic spinal cord ends in the gracile and cuneate nuclei. Behavioral experiments demonstrate that DC lesions reduce the nocifensive responses produced by noxious stimulation of the pancreas and duodenum, as well as the electrophysiological responses of ventral posterolateral neurons to these stimuli. Repeated regional blood volume measurements were made in the thalamus and other brain structures in anesthetized monkeys in response to colorectal distention by functional MRI. Sham surgery did not reduce the regional blood volume changes, whereas the changes were eliminated by a DC lesion at T10.
All animals need to sense temperature to avoid hostile environments and to regulate their internal homeostasis. A particularly obvious example is that animals need to avoid damagingly hot stimuli. The mechanisms by which temperature is sensed have until recently been mysterious, but in the last couple of years, we have begun to understand how noxious thermal stimuli are detected by sensory neurons. Heat has been found to open a nonselective cation channel in primary sensory neurons, probably by a direct action. In a separate study, an ion channel gated by capsaicin, the active ingredient of chili peppers, was cloned from sensory neurons. This channel (vanilloid receptor subtype 1, VR1) is gated by heat in a manner similar to the native heat-activated channel, and our current best guess is that this channel is the molecular substrate for the detection of painful heat. Both the heat channel and VR1 are modulated in interesting ways. The response of the heat channel is potentiated by phosphorylation by protein kinase C, whereas VR1 is potentiated by externally applied protons. Protein kinase C is known to be activated by a variety of inflammatory mediators, including bradykinin, whereas extracellular acidification is characteristically produced by anoxia and inflammation. Both modulatory pathways are likely, therefore, to have important physiological correlates in terms of the enhanced pain (hyperalgesia) produced by tissue damage and inflammation. Future work should focus on establishing, in molecular terms, how a single ion channel can detect heat and how the detection threshold can be modulated by hyperalgesic stimuli.


A brief, 3 min period of global forebrain ischemia in the rat, induced by bilateral common carotid occlusion combined with hypotension, confers resistance to hippocampal pyramidal neurons against a subsequent 10 min ischemia, which is normally lethal to these cells. The molecular mechanisms underlying this ischemic preconditioning, or tolerance, are poorly understood. The tumor suppressor p53 is a transcription factor implicated in neuronal death following various insults, including cerebral ischemia. p53 is activated in response to cellular stress, e.g. hypoxia and DNA damage. Using in situ hybridization, we investigated the hippocampal mRNA expression of p53, and two of its target genes, p21(WAF1/Cip1) and the recently cloned PAG608/Wig-1, in a two-vessel occlusion model of ischemic preconditioning. We also evaluated changes in the protein levels of p53 and PAG608/Wig-1 using immunohistochemistry. The mRNA levels of all three genes increased in the ischemia sensitive CA1 region both following 3 min (non-lethal) preconditioning and 10 min of (lethal) nonconditioned ischemia. In contrast, after 10 min of ischemia preconditioned by a 3 min ischemic insult 48 h earlier, no upregulation of these genes was detected in the CA1. Following 10 min of nonconditioned ischemia, increased neuronal immunostaining of p53 and PAG608/Wig-1 was observed in the hippocampus, which was less pronounced following 3 min of preconditioning ischemia and 10 min of preconditioned ischemia. Our results demonstrate that activation of p53 and its response genes p21(WAF1/Cip1) and PAG608/Wig-1 occurs in the brain following lethal as well as non-lethal ischemic insults, and that ischemic preconditioning markedly diminishes this activation.
We are interested in determining if the visual phototransduction cascade plays a role in light entrainment of photoreceptor circadian oscillators. In this study, we compared mRNA levels of iodopsin and the chicken homolog of Clock (cClock) in the retinas of normal and rd (retinal degeneration) chickens that lack functional rod and cone phototransduction cascades. Iodopsin is a circadian-regulated, photoreceptor-specific gene expressed in chicken retina, and Clock is a transcription factor that has been shown to play a role in the circadian clock mechanism in mouse and Drosophila. The results of our analyses show that cClock and iodopsin transcript levels undergo daily oscillations in retinas of normal animals housed under 12 h light:12 h dark (12L:12D) conditions, and that these oscillations are maintained in the absence of light. Levels of these transcripts in the retinas of rd/rd chickens housed under cyclic light conditions did not change significantly over the course of a 12L:12D cycle; however, there was evidence that the photoreceptor oscillators were entrained in these animals. Comparisons of our normal and rd/rd data suggest that there are at least two light entrainment pathways that impinge on the oscillators found in photoreceptor cells, one of which is effectively disabled by the GC1 null mutation carried by the rd chicken.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) belongs to a family of structurally related neuroendocrine peptides for which five different G-protein-coupled receptor subtypes have been cloned in mammals. To identify additional subtypes we have performed PCR with degenerate primers in different species. We describe here the cloning and pharmacological profile of a unique NPY receptor subtype in the zebrafish that has tentatively been called the zYa receptor. It has 46-50% amino acid identity to the mammalian Y1, Y4 and y6 receptors and the previously cloned zebrafish receptors zYb and zYc, and only about 27% to Y2 and Y5. The zYa receptor binds NPY and PYY from mammals as well as zebrafish with high affinities and has a K(d) of 28 pM for porcine (125)I-PYY. It has a unique binding profile displaying some features in common with each of the mammalian Y1, Y2 and Y5 receptors. In a microphysiometer assay the receptor responds with extracellular acidification. Chromosomal mapping in the zebrafish genome of zYa, zYb and zYc receptor genes indicates a possible orthologous relationship between zYc and mammalian y6, but identifies no obvious mammalian ortholog for zYa (zYb is a recent copy of zYc in the fish lineage). These results imply that previous studies of NPY in fishes, which have striven to interpret the effects within the framework of mammalian Y1, Y2, and Y5 receptors, need to be reevaluated. Thus, the sequence comparisons, pharmacological properties, and chromosomal localization suggest that the zYa receptor is a novel NPY receptor subtype which is likely to be present also in mammals.
NMDA receptor activation produces a characteristic pattern of neuronal firing in magnocellular neuroendocrine cells (MNCs) of the supraoptic nucleus of the hypothalamus (SON) which has been associated with greater hormone release in vivo and in vitro. In addition, i.c.v. administered NMDA receptor blockers suppress the dehydration-induced rise in plasma vasopressin and drinking. To investigate the role of NMDA receptor subunits in the neuroendocrine functions of the magnocellular neuroendocrine cells of the hypothalamus, we examined the effects of osmotic stimulation on the protein expression of the NMDA receptor subunits, NR1 and NR2B, important in binding glycine and glutamate, respectively. Homogenates of SON, paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN), cortex and lateral hypothalamus from control rats and rats given 2% saline water to drink for 4-10 days were subjected to SDS-PAGE and Western blot analysis. This saline water drinking regimen produced a significant rise in plasma osmolality levels. NR1 and NR2B immunoreactivity was detected in SON, PVN, lateral hypothalamus and cortex but not in liver homogenates using subunit-specific polyclonal antibodies and quantified using computer-assisted densitometry. Mean NR2B immunoreactivity was significantly lower in SON (29%) and PVN homogenates (23%) from saline-treated rats than in those from control rats. In addition, the effect of dehydration on NR2B was regionally specific since no significant changes in NR2B expression were observed in homogenates of cortex and lateral hypothalamus. Rehydration allowed recovery of plasma osmolality as well as NR2B protein levels in the SON. These results suggest that changes in NMDA receptor subunit expression contribute to the plasticity manifested by in magnocellular neuroendocrine cells in response to osmotic activation of the hypothalamo-neurohypophysial system. In addition, our results indicate that NMDA receptors on SON and PVN MNCs may contribute to neuroendocrinological functions associated with body fluid homeostasis.
To investigate whether the inferior pulvinar complex has a common organization in different primates, the chemoarchitecture of the visual thalamus was re-examined in squirrel monkeys (Saimiri sciureus) and macaques (Macaca mulatta). The inferior pulvinar (PI) complex consisted of multiple subdivisions and encompassed the classic PI, and adjacent ventral parts of the lateral and medial pulvinar (PL and PM, respectively). In keeping with nomenclature suggested previously for macaques, the PI subdivisions were termed the posterior, medial, central, lateral, and lateral-shell (PI(P), PI(M), PI(C), PI(L), and PI(L-S)). In both species, PI(P) was intense for calbindin, light for acetylcholinesterase (AChE), and very light for Wisteria floribunda agglutinin (WFA) histochemistry. The PI(M) was calbindin poor, AChE rich, and moderate for WFA. The PI(C) was calbindin intense, lighter for AChE, and exhibited little WFA binding. PI(L) and PI(L-S) contained populations of large calbindin or WFA cells that were more numerous in PI(L-S). Although staining with the monoclonal antibody Cat-301 differed between macaques and squirrel monkeys, the same subdivisions were displayed. Moderately dense, patchy Cat-301 stain was found in PI(M) of macaques, whereas in squirrel monkeys PI(M) was light. Connections of the rostral dorsolateral (DLr) and middle temporal (MT) areas of visual cortex in squirrel monkeys were compared with PI subdivisions revealed by the newer histochemical methods in the same cases. The major connections of DLr were with PI(C) and of MT were with PI(M).
Sensory information is encoded throughout the central nervous system by activation of specific groups of neurons. Neurons encoding information from a particular modality are grouped together and constitute an ordered neural representation or &quot;map&quot; of the stimulus. The organization of these representations is not static, but is capable of significant alteration in response to changes in the patterns of inputs delivered to the cortex in the appropriate behavioral context. Therefore, understanding the basic mechanisms that account for discontinuities in cortical representations are important for understanding both information processing in the cortex and plasticity of cortical organization. It is clear that both anatomic and physiologic mechanisms underlie both the genesis and the plasticity of these representations; however, their exact contributions are not fully understood. To examine neuronal anatomy around a representational border in rat primary somatosensory cortex (S1), a novel in vivo/in vitro preparation was used in which the location of the border between the forepaw and lower jaw representations in rat S1 was determined electrophysiologically and marked by dye iontophoresis in vivo. By using in vitro slices from the region in which this border was marked, the morphologies of single cortical layer 2/3 neurons close to and far from the border were determined by intracellular injection of biocytin. Neurons close to the border had dendritic arbors that were significantly biased away from the border; neurons far from the border did not. This bias was due to a decrease in the number of neurites that specifically crossed the border with a concomitant increase in other near-border parts of the neuron, consistent with the ideas that patterns of activity are important for neurite outgrowth and that neurons maintain a relatively constant total neurite extent. These findings confirm the close association of cortical anatomy and physiology and illustrate their relationships with cortical representational discontinuities.
The presupplementary motor area (pre-SMA) is a cortical motor-related area which lies in the medial wall of the frontal lobe, immediately anterior to the supplementary motor area (SMA). This area has been considered to participate in the control of complex forelimb movements in a way different from the SMA. In an attempt to analyze the patterns of projections from the pre-SMA to the basal ganglia, we examined the distributions of pre-SMA inputs in the striatum and the subthalamic nucleus and compared them with the SMA input distributions. To detect morphologically the terminal fields from the pre-SMA and the forelimb region of the SMA, anterograde tracers were injected into such areas that had been identified electrophysiologically in the macaque monkey. Corticostriatal inputs from the pre-SMA were distributed mainly in the striatal cell bridges connecting the rostral aspects of the caudate nucleus and the putamen, as well as in their neighboring striatal portions. These input zones were located, with no substantial overlap, rostral to corticostriatal input zones from the SMA forelimb region. Corticosubthalamic input zones from the pre-SMA were almost localized in the medial aspect of the nucleus, where corticosubthalamic inputs from the SMA forelimb region were also distributed predominantly. However, the major terminal fields from the pre-SMA were centered ventrally to those from the SMA. The present results indicate that the corticostriatal and corticosubthalamic input zones from the pre-SMA appear to be segregated from the SMA-derived input zones. This implies the possibility of parallel processing of motor information from the pre-SMA and SMA in the cortico-basal ganglia circuit.
The aim of the present study was to investigate whether the chirality and type of substitution at position 3 of the dihydropyridine ring influences the pattern of voltage-gated Ca2+ channel blockade. For this purpose, the effect of R- and S-enantiomers of manidipine and nitrendipine, separated by chiral High-Pressure-Liquid-Chromatography columns, were investigated by fura-2 microfluorimetry during the plateau phase of the intracellular Ca2+ ([Ca2+]i) increase induced by 55 mM K+ and by patch-clamp recording of Ca2+ channel activity in GH3 cells. R- and S-enantiomers of both nitrendipine and manidipine produced a [Ca2+]i decay of the K+-induced plateau phase that followed a biexponential pattern with a 'fast' and a 'slow' phase. The S-configuration of both nitrendipine and manidipine produced a larger [Ca2+]i decrease during the 'fast phase', and a faster and smaller [Ca2+]i decrease in the 'slow phase' than did the R-enantiomers. The S- and R-enantiomers of manidipine, which possess a longer and more lipophilic side chain at position 3 of the dihydropyridine ring, induced a slower [Ca2+]i decrease than that observed with the respective nitrendipine enantiomers. Accordingly, patch-clamp experiments revealed that the S-enantiomers of both dihydropyridines displayed a faster onset of action and produced a greater blockade than the R-enantiomers. These results suggest that the enantiomeric configuration and a small side chain at position 3 of the dihydropyridine ring are factors in the chemical structure which influence the pattern of blockade of voltage-sensitive Ca2+ channels.
Neural activity results in long term changes that underlie synaptic plasticity. To examine the molecular basis of activity-dependent plasticity, we have used differential cloning techniques to identify genes that are rapidly induced in brain neurons by synaptic activity. Here, we identify a novel cadherin molecule Arcadlin (activity-regulated cadherin-like protein). arcadlin mRNA is rapidly and transiently induced in hippocampal granule cells by seizures and by N-methyl-D-aspartate-dependent synaptic activity in long term potentiation. The extracellular domain of Arcadlin is most homologous to protocadherin-8; however, the cytoplasmic region is distinct from that of any cadherin family member. Arcadlin protein is expressed at the synapses and shows a homophilic binding activity in a Ca2+-dependent manner. Furthermore, application of Arcadlin antibody reduces excitatory postsynaptic potential amplitude and blocks long term potentiation in hippocampal slices. Its close homology with cadherins, its rapid inducibility by neural activity, and its involvement in synaptic transmission suggest that Arcadlin may play an important role in activity-induced synaptic reorganization underlying long term memory.
Previous evidence by others has indicated that a variety of cell cycle-related molecules are up-regulated in brains of Alzheimer's disease patients. The significance of this increase, however, is unclear. Accordingly, we examined the obligate nature of cyclin-dependent kinases and select downstream targets of these kinases in death of neurons evoked by B-amyloid (AB) protein. We present pharmacological and molecular biological evidence that cyclin-dependent kinases, in particular Cdk4/6, are required for such neuronal death. In addition, we demonstrate that the substrate of Cdk4/6, pRb/p107, is phosphorylated during AB treatment and that one target of pRb/p107, the E2F x DP complex, is required for AB-evoked neuronal death. These results provide evidence that cell cycle elements play a required role in death of neurons evoked by AB and suggest that these elements play an integral role in Alzheimer's disease-related neuronal death.
Synaptogyrins constitute a family of synaptic vesicle proteins of unknown function. With the full-length structure of a new brain synaptogyrin isoform, we now show that the synaptogyrin family in vertebrates includes two neuronal and one ubiquitous isoform. All of these synaptogyrins are composed of a short conserved N-terminal cytoplasmic sequence, four homologous transmembrane regions, and a variable cytoplasmic C-terminal tail that is tyrosine-phosphorylated. The localization, abundance, and conservation of synaptogyrins suggest a function in exocytosis. To test this, we employed a secretion assay in PC12 cells expressing transfected human growth hormone (hGH) as a reporter protein. When Ca2+-dependent hGH secretion from PC12 cells was triggered by high K+ or alpha-latrotoxin, co-transfection of all synaptogyrins with hGH inhibited hGH exocytosis as strongly as co-transfection of tetanus toxin light chain. Synaptophysin I, which is distantly related to synaptogyrins, was also inhibitory but less active. Inhibition was independent of the amount of hGH expressed but correlated with the amount of synaptogyrin transfected. Inhibition of exocytosis was not observed with several other synaptic proteins, suggesting specificity. Analysis of the regions of synaptogyrin required for inhibition revealed that the conserved N-terminal domain of synaptogyrin is essential for inhibition, whereas the long C-terminal cytoplasmic tail is largely dispensable. Our results suggest that synaptogyrins are conserved components of the exocytotic apparatus, which function as regulators of Ca2+-dependent exocytosis.
Motor neurons have been known to require a wide variety of neurotrophic factors for their survival. As one of the target-derived trophic factors, glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) has been shown to exert its effects on motor neurons via a receptor complex including GDNF receptor alpha 1 (GFR alpha-1). Immunoreactivity of GFR alpha-1 was observed at myelinated peripheral nerves and neuromuscular junction (NMJ) of human skeletal muscles. Reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analyses showed that mRNA of GFR alpha-1 existed in the ventral horn of human spinal cord, but not in the skeletal muscles. The results suggested that GFR alpha-1 might play a key role for uptake and internalization of GDNF at the human NMJ.
Corticostriatal projections from one distal and two proximal subregions in the forelimb representation of the primary motor cortex (MI) were examined in the macaque monkey. The distal and proximal subregions in the anterior bank of the central sulcus (distal and proximal-bank subregions) and the proximal subregion in the surface of the precentral gyrus (proximal-surface subregion) of the MI were identified using intracortical microstimulation. Different anterograde tracers were then injected into two of these three forelimb subregions of the MI. In the ipsilateral putamen, the distribution areas of corticostriatal fibers from the distal, proximal-bank and proximal-surface subregions were arranged from ventrolateral to dorsomedial in this order. These corticostriatal input zones were largely segregated from one another.
L-prolyl-L-leucyl-glycinamide (PLG), also known as melanocyte-stimulating hormone release inhibiting factor (MIF-1), is an endogenous brain tripeptide. Previous studies have shown that PLG, and its peptidomimetic analogues, render dopamine D2 receptors more responsive to agonists by maintaining the high-affinity binding state of the receptors. In the present study, we examined the effect PLG and its analogue 3(R)-[(2(S)-pyrrolidylcarbonyl)amino]-2-oxo-1-pyrrolidineacetam ide (PAOPA) on dopamine-stimulated adenylyl cyclase and NPA-stimulated GTPase activity in rat striatal membranes. Dopamine-stimulated adenylyl cyclase activity was inhibited by both PLG and PAOPA in a dose-dependent manner, whereas R(-)-propylnorapomorphine (NPA)-stimulated low Km GTPase activity was significantly increased by 1 microM PLG or 1 nM PAOPA. These results suggest that PLG and PAOPA maintain the high affinity state of the D2 receptor by increasing GTP hydrolysis through stimulation of agonist-induced GTPase activity.
After nearly a century of inquiry, the cause of Alzheimer's disease (AD) remains to be found. In this review, basic and clinical evidence is presented that assembles and hypothetically explains most of the key pathologic events associated with the development of AD. These pathologic events are triggered in AD by an impaired cerebral perfusion originating in the microvasculature which affects the optimal delivery of glucose and oxygen and results in a breakdown of metabolic energy pathways in brain cells such as in the biosynthetic and synaptic pathways. We propose that two factors need to be present before cognitive dysfunction and neurodegeneration is expressed in AD brain: advanced aging, and the presence of a condition that lowers cerebral perfusion. The first factor introduces a normal but potentially menacing process that lowers cerebral blood flow in correlation to increased aging, while the second factor adds a crucial element which further lowers brain perfusion and establishes the heterogeneic disease profile observed in AD patients. These two factors will lead to a critical threshold cerebral hypoperfusion. Critical threshold cerebral hypoperfusion is a self-perpetuating, contained and progressive circulatory insufficiency that will destabilize neurons, synapses, neurotransmission and cognitive function, creating in its wake a neurodegenerative process characterized by the formation of senile plaques, neurofibrillary tangles, and amyloid angiopathy. A discussion of target therapy based on the proposed pathogenesis of AD is also briefly reviewed.
Making the diagnosis of non-accidental head injury, particularly in the acute illness, can be difficult. The aim of this retrospective study was to evaluate the use of magnetic resonance imaging in the acute presentation of non-accidental head injury. Twelve cases admitted to the Royal Hospital for Sick Children, Edinburgh with a diagnosis of non-accidental head injury, and who had magnetic resonance imaging in the acute illness, were identified. The average age was 5.7 mo (range 1 to 34 mo). The mechanism of the primary injury was whiplash-shaking injury syndrome with impact in four cases and without evidence of impact in seven; in one case there was a compression injury. The magnetic resonance imaging findings reflected the pathological consequences of rotational acceleration-deceleration injury and did not differ between those cases with evidence of impact and those without. Subdural haematomas were identified in all cases; the commonest location for subdural blood was the subtemporal region. It is surprising and important that the most frequent location of subdural blood was in the subtemporal area. This is an area difficult to assess by computerized tomography. Evidence of repeated injuries was found in two cases. These findings confirm the value of magnetic resonance imaging in the acute phase of non-accidental head injury.
Wernicke encephalopathy is a neurological disorder commonly observed in chronic alcohol abuse, in patients with AIDS, and in other conditions of compromised nutritional status. The underlying cause of the disorder is thiamine deficiency. The present review highlights data focusing on alcohol-thiamine interactions and their relationship to the pathogenesis of Wernicke encephalopathy. Recent findings on the effects of alcohol on thiamine absorption and storage and on thiamine phosphorylation to the enzyme co-factor form (thiamine diphosphate) are discussed with regard to the postulated &quot;biochemical lesion&quot; of Wernicke encephalopathy. Also discussed are new findings on the molecular genetics of the thiamine-dependent enzyme transketolase in patients with Wernicke encephalopathy. A discussion of the hypotheses regarding the mechanisms underlying the phenomenon of selective neuronal cell death observed in this disorder including cerebral energy deficit, focal lactic acidosis, glutamate excitotoxicity, increased expression of immediate-early genes, free radicals and perturbations of the blood-brain barrier are presented. Finally, the possible role of thiamine deficiency in alcoholic peripheral neuropathy is reviewed.


Chemokines probably mediate inflammation in asthma by acting on endothelial cells, alveolar cells, neutrophils, eosinophils, basophils, mast cells, monocytes, and lymphocytes, which are inhibited by corticosteroids. In 1995, we found that MCP-1 provokes mast cell aggregation and [3H]5HT-release in cultured mast cells. In another study, MCP-1 and RANTES revealed to have a potent chemoattractive effect on basophilic cells originating from the rat skin. In this inflammatory model, RANTES also attracted eosinophils and macrophages along with basophilic cells. The effect of RANTES on inducing HDC mRNA was dose dependent. MCP-1 and RANTES provoked histamine release in intradermal mast cells and prostaglandin D2 generation. These effects clearly show that RANTES and MCP-1 are mediators of acute inflammatory responses. In chronic inflammatory reactions, MCP-1 is also present as we show in a study recently published by our group. In this paper, we found that MCP-1, strongly mediates the recruitment of mononuclear cells in the granuloma formed by KMnO4. In addition, MCP-1 mediated a parasitic infection caused by Trichinella spiralis in mice. Our data strongly demonstrate that chemokines, such as RANTES and MCP-1, mediate acute inflammatory response.
Little is known about the person behind the eponymous dementia, Alois Alzheimer. We wished to study his life and contributions to the field of neuroscience. All cited articles about Alzheimer by his contemporaries and selected correspondence by him was translated from German. Additional personal information was obtained from his granddaughter. Alois Alzheimer made seminal contributions to the field of neuroscience, not only through his own research but also through the numerous scientists and physicians whom he taught. His contributions made a lasting impact not only in the area of Alzheimer disease but also other aspects of brain disease. In addition, he emerges as a complex person who coped successfully with numerous personal and career-related dilemmas that remain relevant in the academic environment today.

Mitochondrial DNA depletion syndrome is an autosomal inherited disease associated with grossly reduced cellular levels of mitochondrial DNA in infancy. Most patients are born after a full and uncomplicated pregnancy, are normal at birth, but develop symptoms in the early neonatal period. These observations have led to the suggestion that the patients have a defect affecting the control of mitochondrial DNA copy number after birth. Using immunocytochemical techniques, we demonstrated that the disease is already expressed in amniotic fluid cells. Detection of mitochondrial DNA depletion in these fetal cells indicates that the defect may already be expressed early in embryological development.
When rats are maintained on high-fat diets, digestive processes adapt to provide for more efficient digestion and absorption of this nutrient. Furthermore, rats fed high-fat diets tend to consume more calories and gain more weight than rats on a low-fat diet. We hypothesized that, in addition to adaptation of digestive processes, high-fat maintenance diets might result in reduction of sensitivity to the satiating effects of fat digestion products, which inhibit food intake by activating sensory fibers in the small intestine. To test this hypothesis we measured food intake after intestinal infusion of oleic acid or the oligosaccharide maltotriose in rats maintained on a low-fat diet or one of three high-fat diets. We found that rats fed high-fat diets exhibited diminished sensitivity to satiation by intestinal infusion of oleic acid. Sensitivity to the satiation effect of intestinal maltotriose infusion did not differ between groups maintained on the various diets. Reduced sensitivity to oleate infusion was specifically dependent on fat content of the diet and was not influenced by the dietary fiber or carbohydrate content. These results indicate that diets high in fat reduce the ability of fat to inhibit further food intake. Such changes in sensitivity to intestinal fats might contribute to the increased food intake and obesity that occur with high-fat diet regimens.
Area postrema lesions (APX) in adult male rats produced a robust spontaneous intake of 0.5 M NaCl, as reported previously. The largest NaCl intakes (up to 108 ml/day) were observed when there was little incidental damage in the medial subnucleus of the nucleus of the solitary tract adjacent to the caudal and middle portions of the area postrema. Rats with discrete APX also drank substantial amounts of 0.5 M NaCl when access to saline was restricted to 7 h/day (up to 30 ml in 1 h, 48 ml in 7 h). Such large NaCl intakes stimulated considerable water ingestion and renal sodium excretion, but together these responses usually were insufficient for osmoregulation during the 7-h test period. After systemic administration of hypertonic NaCl solution, rats with APX excreted less Na(+) in urine and secreted less vasopressin and oxytocin than control rats did. The prominent salt appetite, insufficient thirst and natriuresis in response to an ingested NaCl load, and blunted natriuresis and neurohypophysial hormone secretion in response to an injected NaCl load, all indicate that osmoregulatory responses are impaired in rats after APX.
Brown adipose tissue contains both beta(1)- and beta(3)-adrenergic receptors (beta-ARs), and whereas both receptor subtypes can activate adenylyl cyclase, recent studies suggest that these subtypes have different pharmacological properties and may serve different signaling functions. In this study, primary brown adipocyte cultures were used to determine the role of beta-AR subtypes in mediating lipolysis and uncoupling protein-1 (UCP1) gene expression, elicited by the physiological neurohormone norepinephrine (NE). NE increased both lipolysis and UCP1 mRNA levels in brown adipocyte cultures; the beta(1)-receptor-selective antagonist CGP-20712A strongly antagonized the increase in UCP1 gene expression but had little effect on lipolysis. The beta(3)-receptor-selective agonist CL-316243 (CL) also increased lipolysis and UCP1 mRNA levels, yet CL was more potent in stimulating lipolysis than UCP1 gene expression. NE also increased the phosphorylation of cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) and perilipin (PL), both of which are protein kinase A substrates that are differentially targeted to the nucleus and lipid droplets, respectively. beta(1)-receptor blockade inhibited NE-stimulated phosphorylation of CREB but not PL. The results suggest that beta-AR subtypes regulate different physiological responses stimulated by NE in brown adipocyte cultures in part by differentially transducing signals to subcellular compartments.
This study has characterized constrictions of small cutaneous arteries in the guinea pig ear in response to electrical stimulation of the cervical sympathetic nerve (SNS) in vivo. Video microscopy and on-line image analysis were used to examine diameter changes of ear arteries (80-140 micrometers resting diameter) in anesthetized guinea pigs. Trains of 50-300 impulses, but not single pulses or short trains, produced frequency-dependent (2-20 Hz) constrictions. The purinoceptor antagonist suramin (30 microM) greatly reduced constrictions produced by exogenous ATP but did not affect constrictions produced by SNS at 10 Hz or exogenous norepinephrine. The alpha(2)-adrenoceptor antagonist yohimbine (1 microM) enhanced the peak amplitude of sympathetic constrictions at lower stimulation frequencies (1-5 Hz). The amplitude of constrictions to SNS at 10 Hz was reduced, and the latency of constrictions was increased by the alpha(1)-adrenoceptor antagonist prazosin (1 microM). Constrictions to SNS at 10 Hz remaining after prazosin treatment were reduced in amplitude by dihydroergotamine (2 microM) and were attenuated further by the neuropeptide Y Y(1)-receptor antagonist 1229U91 (0.3 microM). Thus norepinephrine and neuropeptide Y act as cotransmitters to mediate sympathetic constriction of small ear arteries at higher stimulation frequencies (10 Hz), but ATP does not seem to contribute directly to these constrictions.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) provides a safe, noninvasive method for studying task-related cortical neuronal activity. Because the cerebral cortex is strongly implicated in the control of human swallowing, we sought to identify its functional neuroanatomy using fMRI. In 10 healthy volunteers, a swallow event-related paradigm was performed by injecting 5 ml water bolus into the oral cavity every 30 s. Whole brain functional magnetic susceptibility -weighted spiral imaging data were simultaneously acquired over 600 s on a 1.5-T magnetic resonance scanner, utilizing the blood oxygenation level-dependent technique, and correlation maps were generated using both &gt;99% percentile rank and spatial extent thresholding. We observed areas of increased signal change consistently in caudal sensorimotor cortex, anterior insula, premotor cortex, frontal operculum, anterior cingulate and prefrontal cortex, anterolateral and posterior parietal cortex, and precuneus and superiomedial temporal cortex. Less consistent activations were also seen in posterior cingulate cortex and putamen and caudate nuclei. Activations were bilateral, but almost every region, particularly the premotor, insular, and frontal opercular cortices, displayed lateralization to one or the other hemisphere. Swallow-related cortical activity is multidimensional, recruiting brain areas implicated in processing motor, sensory, and attention/affective aspects of the task.
The regulation by protein kinase C (PKC) of recombinant voltage-gated potassium (K) channels in frog oocytes was studied. Phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA; 500 nM), an activator of PKC, caused persistent and large (up to 90%) inhibition of mouse, rat, and fly Shaker K currents. K current inhibition by PMA was blocked by inhibitors of PKC, and inhibition was not observed in control experiments with PMA analogs that do not activate PKC. However, site-directed substitution of potential PKC phosphorylation sites in the Kv1.1 protein did not prevent current inhibition by PMA. Kv1.1 current inhibition was also not accompanied by changes in macroscopic activation kinetics or in the conductance-voltage relationship. In Western blots, Kv1.1 membrane protein was not significantly reduced by PKC activation. The injection of oocytes with botulinum toxin C3 exoenzyme blocked the PMA inhibition of Kv1. 1 currents. These data are consistent with the hypothesis that PKC-mediated inhibition of Kv1.1 channel function occurs by a novel mechanism that requires a C3 exoenzyme substrate but does not alter channel activation gating or promote internalization of the channel protein.


Cytotoxic eosinophil granule proteins are considered important in the pathogenesis of allergic airway diseases such as rhinitis and asthma. To explore the cellular mechanisms behind eosinophil granule release in human allergic airways, 16 symptom-free patients with seasonal allergic rhinitis were challenged daily with allergen during 1 wk. Nasal lavage samples and biopsies, obtained before and 24 h after the last allergen exposure, were processed for immunohistochemical and electron microscopic analysis. The allergen challenges produced nasal symptoms, marked tissue eosinophilia, and an increase in lavage fluid levels of eosinophil cationic protein (ECP). The nasal mucosa areas with intense extracellular immunoreactivity for ECP were associated with abundant free eosinophil granules. Electron microscopy confirmed the free granules and revealed that all mucosal eosinophils were involved in granule release, either by cytolysis (33%) or piecemeal degranulation (PMD) (67%). Resting or apoptotic eosinophils were not observed. Cytolytic eosinophils had less signs of intracellular granule release (p &lt; 0. 001) and a higher content of intact granules (p &lt; 0.001) compared with viable eosinophils in the same tissue. This study demonstrates eosinophil cytolysis (ECL) as a distinct mechanism for granule mediator release in human allergic airway mucosa. The nature and extent of the ECL and its product (i.e., protein-laden extracellular granules) indicate that allergen-induced cytolysis is a primary and major mechanism for the release of eosinophil proteins in human allergic airway inflammation in vivo.
Of 22 consecutive patients with minor knee instability after a partial rupture of the anterior cruciate ligament, all could be reexamined after a mean of 12 years and all but 1 could be reexamined after a mean of 20 years. Three patients needed surgery during the follow-up period, but nobody had an anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction. The Lysholm knee function score was excellent and did not change between 12 and 20 years. Patients had decreased their activities from contact sports before injury to physical fitness activities at the late follow-up. Four patients changed activities because of a knee problem. The quality of life score was somewhat higher than may be expected in an age-matched average population. At late follow-up, eight patients had a 1+ Lachman sign, two a 2+ Lachman sign, and one a positive pivot shift. Also at late follow-up, 7 knees showed no signs of radiographic osteoarthrosis, 10 had Fairbank's signs, and 3 had minor and 1 a major joint space reduction. Of the 12 patients with longitudinal radiographic observation, 3 knees had developed a higher degree of osteoarthrosis, and 9 had remained unchanged. The patients had a mean age of 48 years at the late follow-up. This suggests that the results may be regarded as final outcome after this specific knee injury.
Palatal myoclonus is usually due to a brainstem or cerebellar lesion disrupting the dentato-rubro-olivary pathway. Rarely it may be caused by a cortical lesion. The precipitating factor in 70% of all cases is an infarct. We describe an unusual case of a patient with palatal myoclonus who had an old ipsilateral cerebellar infarct and a new contralateral subcortical (corona radiata) infarct. We postulate that the new infarct caused disinhibition of the old cerebellar infarct, resulting in palatal myoclonus. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain did not show any hypertrophy of the inferior olivary nucleus. Her myoclonus proved refractory to clonazepam, valproate and phenytoin.
The innervation of Meissner's corpuscles (Mc) is complex, consisting of different types of sensory nerve fibers. We investigated the neurochemistry of Mc in human digital skin by indirect immunofluorescence, using a wide panel of both general neuronal as well as neurotransmitter-related molecules. Structural proteins (protein gene product 9.5, neuron-specific enolase, neurofilament) were found to consistently label the entire neuronal component of Mc. Immunoreactivity for gamma-melanocyte stimulating hormone was detected in the large diameter fibers running spirally within the corpuscles, while a number of peptide transmitters (substance P, calcitonin gene-related peptide, neurokinin A, galanin, somatostatin) were found in the thin unmyelinated fibers in both intra- and extracorpuscular locations.


The effects of endothelin-1 (ET-1) on the production of plasminogen activator inhibitor 1 (PAI-1) and tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA) by human brain-derived endothelial cells in culture were studied. At 100 nmol/L, ET-1 increased PAI-1 production by 88+/-6% within 72 hours, and increased PAI-1 mRNA expression within 1 hour of stimulation; there was no significant effect on t-PA production. PAI-1 activity was also examined and found to increase with ET-1 treatment. Suboptimal concentrations of ET-1 and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) acted synergistically to increase PAI-1 production. ET-1 activated protein kinase C and cAMP-dependent protein kinase pathways within 3 to 5 minutes of treatment, with the peak at 10 minutes. Activation of protein kinase C by phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate (PMA) resulted in increased PAI-1 production, whereas activation of the cAMP-dependent protein kinase by forskolin or dibutyryl cAMP (dBu-cAMP) significantly decreased PAI-1 production. However, simultaneous activation of protein kinase C by PMA and cAMP-dependent protein kinase by dBu-cAMP only slightly attenuated PMA-induced PAI-1 increase. Inhibition of protein kinase C by GF-109213X abolished the effects of ET-1. These results demonstrate that ET-1 and TNF-alpha function synergistically to induce procoagulant activity of brain endothelial cells in a process that involves a protein kinase C-dependent pathway.
The present study sought to determine whether the duration of white-noise bursts affects their loudness category rating in the same way for hearing-impaired as for normally-hearing subjects. Twelve normally-hearing and 12 hearing-impaired subjects took part. Categorical loudness growth functions were obtained for 16.25 ms, 32.5 ms, 75 ms, 150 ms and 300 ms white noise bursts. Temporal integration of loudness was defined as the intensity difference needed for stimuli of different durations to result in identical category ratings. In normally-hearing subjects, temporal integration of loudness occurred mainly with the short-duration (16.25 ms and 32.5 ms) stimuli, whereas it was found with almost every stimulus duration in hearing-impaired subjects. In other words, temporal integration of loudness between 16.25 ms and 300 ms stimulus duration was greater in hearing-impaired listeners and there was a difference between normal and hearing-impaired subjects regarding change in loudness perception with stimulus duration. Consequently, the use of fixed-duration stimuli hinders loudness normalization.
The present experiment examined oral ethanol self-administration in 5-HT1b knockout (KO) mice and 5-HT1b wide-type (WT) control mice using a continuous access operant procedure. After lever press training, adult 5-HT1b KO and 5-HT1b WT mice were placed in operant chambers on a 23 h per day basis with access to food (FR1), 10% v/v ethanol (FR4), and water from a sipper tube. KO mice displayed higher rates of responding on the ethanol-associated lever compared to WT mice. KO mice also consumed greater amounts of water. Food responding was the same in both genotypes. Following 30 sessions, ethanol concentration was altered every 5 days. Response patterns were determined using 0, 5, and 20% v/v ethanol concentrations. Ethanol responding (0, 5, 10, and 20% v/v) was also examined after the addition of 0.15% saccharin. KO mice and WT mice showed similar response rates for all ethanol concentrations. Since KO mice showed greater levels of ethanol responding only for unsweetened 10% v/v ethanol, and showed modest ethanol self-administration overall, the present results are not consistent with the notion that 5-HT1b KO have a generally greater preference for ethanol than 5-HT1b WT mice.
In the present study we evaluated the effects of an intracerebroventricular injection of streptozotocin on cognitive behavior and biochemical markers in the brain of middle-aged Wistar rats. Intracerebroventricular injected streptozotocin has previously been reported to decrease the central metabolism of glucose. We found that streptozotocin-treated rats showed an impaired cognitive performance in the delayed non-matching to position task and the Morris water escape task. Glial fibrillary acidic protein, an indicator of reactive astroglial changes, was measured in three different (soluble, Triton X-100 soluble and crude cytoskeletal) protein fractions and its content in the fractions of the septum, hippocampus and striatum of streptozotocin-treated rats was increased. Furthermore, the glial fibrillary acidic protein response of each protein fraction to streptozotocin treatment appeared to be differently regulated. In streptozotocin-treated rats the choline acetyltransferase activity was decreased in the hippocampus only, which was correlated with the hippocampal glial fibrillary acidic protein contents of all three hippocampal protein fractions, thus suggesting that the cholinergic deficit is a consequence of direct damage to the hippocampus. The cognitive deficits in both tasks were related to the increased glial fibrillary acidic protein contents, especially of the soluble and cytoskeletal fraction, and the decreased choline acetyltransferase activity in the hippocampus. Taken together, these findings indicate that it is important to take into account which protein fraction has been used for measuring the glial fibrillary acidic protein response to a stressor. Furthermore, intracerebroventricular injected streptozotocin may provide a relevant model for studying neurodegenerative changes due to a metabolic insufficiency and testing neuroprotective effects of substances.
Since the discovery that the therapeutic efficacy of antipsychotic drugs was significantly correlated to their ability to block dopamine D2 receptors, abnormal dopamine transmission in the forebrain has been postulated to underlie psychosis in schizophrenia. In the past 15 years, an impressive amount of clinical and basic research aimed at the study of schizophrenia has indicated that prefrontal and temporal cortical abnormalities may be more important in the etiology of many of the symptoms of schizophrenia, including psychosis. However, the cortical systems that appear to have structural and/or metabolic abnormalities in schizophrenia patients potently regulate forebrain dopamine transmission through a number of mechanisms. In turn, dopamine modulates excitatory transmission mediated by frontal and temporal cortical projections to the basal ganglia and other regions. The present review summarizes the multiple interactions between forebrain DA systems and frontal and temporal corticostriatal transmission. It then examines the role of these interactions in normal behaviors and the psychopathology of schizophrenia.
We have developed an animal model of hypoxic preconditioning and assumed that oxygen radicals and their endogenous scavenging enzymes may play an important role in the preconditioning. To test this hypothesis, activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) and the content of lipid peroxides (LPO) were measured during the preconditioning. Compared with unpreconditioned control animals, in animals exposed to hypoxia only once, the activities of SOD and GSH-Px in whole brain were found to be significantly decreased while the LPO content in the hippocampus significantly increased. However, those in animals exposed to 4 runs of hypoxia tended to return to control levels and were lower than those in animals exposed to 1 and 2 runs of hypoxia. Our results indicate that the oxygen radicals and their specific scavenging enzymes seem to be involved in the development of tolerance to hypoxia.
We report that caffeine, in millimolar concentrations, interacts strongly with four common calcium indicator dyes: mag-fura-2, magnesium green, fura-2, and fluo-3. Fluorescence intensities are either noticeably enhanced (mag-fura-2, fura-2) or diminished (magnesium green, fluo-3). The caffeine-induced changes in the fluorescence spectra are clearly distinct from those of metal ion binding at the indicator chelation sites. Binding affinities for calcium of either mag-fura-2 or magnesium green increased only slightly in the presence of caffeine. Caffeine also alters the fluorescence intensities of two other fluorescent dyes lacking a chelation site, fluorescein and sulforhodamine 101, implicating the fluorophore itself as the interaction site for caffeine. In the absence of caffeine, variation of solution hydrophobicity by means of water/dioxane mixtures yielded results similar to those for caffeine. These observations suggest that hydrophobic substances, in general, can alter dye fluorescence in a dye-specific manner. For the particular case of caffeine, and perhaps other commonly used pharmacological agents, the dye interactions can seriously distort fluorescence measurements of intracellular ion concentrations with metal indicator dyes.
In this study, the mechanism of nicotine-induced hippocampal acetylcholine (ACh) release in awake, freely moving rats was examined using in vivo microdialysis. Systemic administration of nicotine (0.4 mg kg(-1), s.c.) increased the levels of ACh in hippocampal dialysates. The nicotine-induced hippocampal ACh release was sensitive to the pretreatment of neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) antagonists mecamylamine (3.0 mg kg(-1), s.c.) and dihydro-beta-erythrodine (DHbetaE; 4.0 mg kg(-1), s.c.) as well as systemic administration of the dopamine (DA) D1 receptor antagonist SCH-23390 (R-(+)-7-chloro-8-hydroxy-3-methyl-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-benzaz epine; 0.3 mg kg(-1), s.c.). Local perfusion of mecamylamine (100 microM), DHbetaE (100 microM) or SCH-23390 (10 microM) through microdialysis probe did not increase basal hippocampal ACh release. Hippocampal ACh release elicited by systemic administration of nicotine (0.4 mg kg(-1), s.c.) was antagonized by local perfusion of SCH-23390 (10 microM), but not by MEC (100 microM) or DHbetaE (100 microM). Direct perfusion of nicotine (1 mM, but not 0.1 mM) increased hippocampal ACh levels; however, this effect was relatively insensitive to blockade by co-perfusion of either mecamylamine (100 microM) or SCH-23390 (10 microM). These results suggest that nicotine-induced hippocampal ACh release occurs by two distinct mechanisms: (1) activation of nAChRs outside the hippocampus leading to DA release and subsequent ACh release involving a permissive DA synapse, and (2) direct action of nicotine within the hippocampus leading to ACh release via non-DA-ergic mechanism.
A number of structurally distinct superoxide dismutase (SOD) mimetics were examined to determine if they shared the ability of authentic Cu/Zn SOD to produce endothelium-dependent relaxation of rings of rat aorta by protecting basal nitric oxide from destruction by endogenously produced superoxide anion. MnCl2 (10 nM-100 microM), CuSO4 (100 nM-1 mM) and CuDIPS (Cu [II]-[diisopropylsalicylate]2; 100 nM-30 microM) each mimicked the ability of Cu/Zn SOD (0.1-300 u ml(-1)) to produce relaxation of phenylephrine-precontracted aortic rings in a manner inhibited by endothelial removal or treatment with N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME, 100 microM). In contrast, MnTMPyP (Mn [III] tetrakis [1-methyl-4-pyridyl] porphyrin; 10 nM-30 microM) augmented phenylephrine-induced contraction and this was blocked by endothelial removal or treatment with L-NAME (100 microM), consistent with destruction rather than protection of basal nitric oxide activity. Pretreatment with Cu/Zn SOD (250 u ml(-1)) blocked this augmentation suggesting that it arose paradoxically through destruction of nitric oxide by superoxide anion. The spin trap agents tiron (100 nM-1 mM), tempol (100 nM-1 mM) and PTIYO (4-phenyl-2,2,5,5-tetramethyl imidazolin-1-yloxy-5-oxide; 100 nM-300 microM) all failed to promote endothelium-dependent relaxation. In fact, the last two augmented phenylephrine-induced tone and this was blocked by endothelial removal or treatment with L-NAME (100 microM), consistent with destruction of basal nitric oxide activity. This destruction was unaffected by pretreatment with Cu/Zn SOD (250 u ml(-1)) and probably reflected the direct ability of tempol and PTIYO to destroy nitric oxide. Thus, the ideal SOD mimetic for protection of nitric oxide activity in conditions of oxidant stress still awaits development.
This study characterized pharmacologically the functional responses to agonists at human dopamine D2(long) (hD2), D3 (hD3) and D4.4 (hD4) receptors separately expressed in cloned cells using the cytosensor microphysiometer. Dopaminergic receptor agonists caused increases in extracellular acidification rate in adherent Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) clones expressing hD2, hD3 or hD4 receptors. Acidification rate responses to agonists in other cell lines expressing these receptors were smaller than those in adherent CHO cells. The time courses and maximum increases in acidification rate of the agonist responses in adherent CHO cells were different between the three dopamine receptor clones. Responses were blocked by pretreatment of cells with pertussis toxin or amiloride analogues. Most agonists had full intrinsic activity at each of the dopamine receptor subtypes, as compared to quinpirole, however both enantiomers of UH-232 and (-)3-PPP were partial agonists in this assay system. The functional potency of full agonists at each of the three receptors expressed in CHO cells was either higher than, or similar to, the apparent inhibition constants (Ki) determined in [125I]-iodosulpride competition binding studies. Functional selectivities of the agonists were less than radioligand binding selectivities. The rank orders of agonist potencies and selectivities were similar, but not identical, to the rank orders of radioligand binding affinities and selectivities. The dopamine receptor antagonists, iodosulpride and clozapine, had no effect on basal acidification rates but inhibited acidification responses in CHO cells to quinpirole in an apparently competitive manner. Antagonist potencies closely matched their radioligand binding affinities in these cells.
MRI was performed on the spinal roots, brachial and lumbar plexuses of 14 patients with chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP). Hypertrophy of cervical roots and brachial plexus was demonstrated in eight cases, six of whom also had hypertrophy of the lumbar plexus. Of 11 patients who received gadolinium, five of six cases with hypertrophy and one of five without hypertrophy demonstrated enhancement. All patients with hypertrophy had a relapsing-remitting course and a significantly longer disease duration. Gross onion-bulb formations were seen in a biopsy of nerve from the brachial plexus in one case with clinically evident nodular hypertrophy. We conclude that spinal root and plexus hypertrophy may be seen on MRI, particularly in cases of CIDP of long duration, and gadolinium enhancement may be present in active disease.
Though the right prefrontal cortex is often activated in neuroimaging studies of episodic memory retrieval, the functional significance of this activation remains unresolved. In this functional MRI study of 12 healthy volunteers, we tested the hypothesis that one role of the right prefrontal cortex is to monitor the information retrieved from episodic memory in order to make an appropriate response. The critical comparison was between two word recognition tasks that differed only in whether correct responses did or did not require reference to the spatiotemporal context of words presented during a previous study episode. Activation in a dorsal midlateral region of the right prefrontal cortex was associated with increased contextual monitoring demands, whereas a more ventral region of the right prefrontal cortex showed retrieval-related activation that was independent of task instructions. This functional dissociation of dorsal and ventral right prefrontal regions is discussed in relation to a theoretical framework for the control of episodic memory retrieval.
Previous studies have shown that activated T cells can successfully cross endothelial barriers and will accumulate in tissue which contains their specific antigen. Myelin specific T cells (e.g. myelin basic protein specific) are recognized to play an important role in the induction of experimental autoimmune demyelinating disease of the CNS and have been shown to induce blood-brain barrier breakdown effectively. In this study we injected T cells reactive to a non-neural antigen (ovalbumin) systemically into Lewis rats and caused them to accumulate in the thoracic dorsal column by a prior injection of ovalbumin. Selected rats were given systemic demyelinating antibody, antimyelin oligodendrocyte antibody (anti-MOG antibody), to provide evidence of permeability changes to the blood-brain barrier. These animals were compared with control rats given systemic anti-P0 monoclonal antibody and to other rats given a direct micro-injection (3 microliters) of anti-MOG antibody into the thoracic dorsal column. All animals were monitored by serial neurophysiological studies and by histological examination. Direct anti-MOG antibody injection produced a focal block in conduction at the injection site and a large circumscribed area of primary demyelination with axonal preservation within the dorsal column. An even more profound conduction block and more extensive plaque-like region of demyelination were seen in animals given antigen, activated T cells and systemic antibody. However, animals given antigen and T cells without relevant antibody did not show conduction impairment or demyelination, except when very large numbers of T cells were given; such rats developed severe irreversible axonal damage. This study demonstrates the blood-brain barrier is disrupted by activated T cells of non-neural specificity and allows large plaque-like regions of demyelination to form in the presence of circulating antimyelin antibody. The relevance of this finding to multiple sclerosis is discussed.
Parkinson's Disease (PD) is often associated with a subcortico-frontal syndrome (SCFS) that is mainly characterized by executive dysfunctions. The complete biochemistry of these dysfunctions remain misunderstood. Most studies have focused on the well-known nigro-striatal dopaminergic degenerations of PD, but a more satisfying understanding of the SCFS has come from the study of the cholinergic systems. We present here two new experiments carried out with long-term and acute anticholinergic treatments in PD. In the first experiment, the effects of a 2-week treatment with trihexyphenidyl were compared to those observed under placebo on a neuropsychological battery. Results showed that anticholinergic-induced deficits in PD were exclusively concerned with executive functions. In the second experiment, the effects of an acute subclinical dose of scopolamine were compared between normal controls and PD patients who were devoid of cognitive deficit on a subset of executive tasks. Results indicates that PD patients but not normal controls developed a transient SCFS for the duration of the drug action. In contrast to other populations with cholinergic depletions-such as Alzheimer's disease-cholinergic blockade in PD exacerbates specifically the SCFS. Such a discrepancy between these two neuropsychological profiles are discussed in terms of the specificity of the underlying cholinergic lesions.
Both xeroderma pigmentosum group A (XPA) and Cockayne syndrome (CS) are rare autosomal disorders, have a genetic defect in the step of nucleotide repair, and involve various neurological abnormalities caused by progressive neurodegeneration. We performed comprehensive neuropathological analysis of five cases of XPA and four cases of CS. The XPA cases showed widespread neuronal loss throughout the central nervous system, in sharp contrast to the comparative preservation of neurons in the CS cases, who rather exhibited patchy demyelination in the cerebral and cerebellar white matter, and multifocal calcium deposition in the basal ganglia and cerebral white matter, respectively. Exceptionally in the cerebellar cortex, neuronal loss was more severe in CS than in XPA. Grumose or foamy spheroid bodies occurred in the globus pallidus and substantia nigra, and axonal torpedoes were increased in the cerebellar cortex in both disorders. Neither silver impregnation nor immunohistochemistry for ubiquitin or tau succeeded in visualizing neurofibrillary tangles, senile plaques or augmented ubiquitination in either disorder, and these findings did not support the involvement of facilitated aging in the neurodegeneration in XPA or CS.
The projections from the anteromedial nucleus of the thalamus (AM) were investigated using anterograde and retrograde tracing techniques. AM projects to nearly the entire rostrocaudal extent of limbic cortex and to visual cortex. Anteriorly, AM projects to medial orbital, frontal polar, precentral agranular, and infraradiata cortices. Posteriorly, AM projects to retrosplenial granular, entorhinal, perirhinal and presubicular cortices, and to the subiculum. Further, AM projects to visual cortical area 18b, and to the lateral and basolateral nuclei of the amygdala. AM projections are topographically organized, i.e., projections to different cortical areas arise from distinct parts of AM. The neurons projecting to rostral infraradiata cortex (IRalpha) are more caudally located in AM than the neurons projecting to caudal infraradiata cortex (IRbeta). The neuronal cell bodies that project to the terminal field in area 18b are located primarily in ventral and lateral parts of AM, whereas neurons projecting to perirhinal cortex and amygdala are more medially located in AM. Injections into the most caudal, medial part of AM (i.e., the interanteromedial [IAM] nucleus) label terminals in the rostral precentral agranular, caudal IRbeta, and caudal perirhinal cortices. Whereas most AM axons terminate in layers I and V-VI, exceptions to this pattern include area 18b (axons and terminals in layers I and IV-V), the retrosplenial granular cortex (axons and terminals in layers I and V), and the presubicular, perirhinal, and entorhinal cortices (axons and terminals predominantly in layer V). Together, these findings suggest that AM influences a widespread area of limbic cortex.
The pattern of lectin labeling in the cerebral cortex of the cat was studied using semithin sections. The labeling produced by some lectins (Concanavalin A, Lens culinaris, Phaseolus vulgaris-L, Phaseolus vulgaris-E, Pisum sativum, wheat germ agglutinin, and succynilated-wheat germ) appeared inside every neuron as small cytoplasmic granules, probably corresponding to cisterns of endoplasmic reticulum and/or the Golgi complex. Lectins with affinity for alpha-mannosyl residues (Pisum sativum, Lens culinaris, and Concanavalin A) stained the cell surface of a subset of cortical neurons. The labeled cells were round or polygonal, medium to large neurons present in layers II-VI, exhibiting the morphological features of nonpyramidal cells. Previous lectin studies of perineuronal nets have shown that these extracellular specializations contain N-acetylgalactosamine and N-acetylglucosamine. Our results show that mannose is also a component of perineuronal nets and that lectins specific for alpha-mannose can be used as tools for the cytochemical detection of a separate class of cortical neurons, which have not yet been fully characterized. In addition, some lectins (Bandeiraea simplicifolia, Concanavalin A, Lens culinaris, Phaseolus vulgaris-L, Phaseolus vulgaris-E, Pisum sativum, and succynilated-wheat germ agglutinin) specifically labeled a population of a type of microglia-related cells known as perivascular cells. The data presented here report for the first time the selective staining of perivascular cells and further support the hypothesis that they are different from typical microglial cells.
The neuroendocrine melanotrope cell displays Ca2+ oscillations that are build up by several discrete Ca2+ rises ('steps'). Each step is linked to Ca2+-entry across the plasma membrane via voltage-operated calcium channels and associated with a fast Ca2+-wave travelling from the plasma membrane to the central parts of the cell. Previously, linescanning with confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM) supported that these waves have high speeds (between 30 and 80 microm/s), which is considered indicative of the involvement of a calcium-induced calcium release (CICR) mechanism in fast-wave propagation. However, to firmly establish the presence of a CICR mechanism one must rule out the possibility that the Ca2+ signal is artifactually accelerated by the presence of a highly mobile Ca2+ probe and also eliminate imaging artifacts inherent to single wavelength imaging. In the present study both problems are addressed. Mobility and intracellular distribution of a generally used Ca2+ probe, Oregon-green 488 BAPTA-1 (O-green-1), were established using fluorescence correlation microscopy. We then used the ratio signal of co-loaded O-green-1 and Fura-Red to quantify the relative [Ca2+]i during linescanning. It was found that O-green-1 displays different diffusion times when regions near the plasma membrane and in the center of the cell are compared. However, the calculated diffusion constant of the probe was too low to account for the observed high speed of the Ca2+ wave. In conclusion, we established the authenticity of the high speed of Ca2+-waves in Xenopus melanotropes, providing evidence for the involvement of a CICR mechanism in wave propagation.
The functional organization of prefrontal cortex (PFC) is a central issue in cognitive neuroscience. Previous physiological investigations have often failed to reveal specialization within the PFC. However, these studies have generally not been designed to examine this issue. Methodological issues such as statistical criteria for specificity, the number of neurons sampled, the extent of cortex sampled, and the number, location and nature of the stimuli used are among the variables that need to be considered in evaluating the results of studies on functional localization. In the present study, we have examined neurons in macaque monkeys trained to fixate while viewing visual stimuli, including faces, or to use them as memoranda on a working memory task. Visual responses of over 1500 neurons were recorded throughout a wide expanse of the PFC (areas 12, 9, 46, 8 and 45). Neurons were considered selective for faces if the best response to a face was over twice as strong as that to any of a wide variety of non-face stimuli. Full electrode track reconstructions in three monkeys revealed in each that neurons which met this criterion were concentrated almost exclusively in three distinct subregions within the projection region of the temporal lobe visual areas. We further show that for all neurons, the most visually selective neurons (for faces, objects or color patterns) were also the most concentrated in the temporal lobe recipient PFC. Similar face selectivity, regional specialization, and delay or delay-like activity were observed in monkeys whether trained on memory tasks or not, which suggests that these are naturally occurring properties of prefrontal neurons. These results confirm neuronal and regional specialization for information processing in PFC and elucidate how heretofore unexamined experimental variables have a strong influence on the detection of regional specialization.
Despite the observation that obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) frequently has its onset during childhood or adolescence, most studies have examined OCD in adults. Because pediatric OCD patients are near illness onset with limited or no medication exposure, this population represents a unique window through which to view the neurobiology of OCD. In this article, the authors summarize data from existing studies of pediatric OCD and attempt to interpret the data within the context of a neurobiologic discourse based largely on research in adults. The authors review current neuroanatomic models of OCD and examine neuroimaging and neuropsychologic studies designed to test those models. In addition, the authors examine irregularities of neurotransmitter systems though to be involved in OCD.
The case of a bullet retained, without causing neurological symptoms, in the anterior arch of a youth's atlas after a gun had been fired a short distance from his mouth is reported. The patient was managed with external stabilization.
Sleep-wake rhythm disturbances in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) make a strong demand on caregivers and are among the most important reasons for institutionalization. Several previous studies reported that the disturbances improve with increased environmental light, which, through the retinohypothalamic tract, activates the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), the biological clock of the brain. The data of recently published positive and negative reports on the effect of bright light on actigraphically assessed rest-activity rhythms in demented elderly were reanalyzed using several statistical procedures. It was demonstrated that the light-induced improvement in coupling of the rest-activity rhythm to the environmental zeitgeber of bright light is better detected using nonparametric procedures. Cosinor, complex demodulation, and Lomb-Scargle periodogram-derived variables are much less sensitive to this effect because of the highly nonsinusoidal waveform of the rest-activity rhythm. Guidelines for analyses of actigraphic data are given to improve the sensitivity to treatment effects in future studies.


Despite the enormous success of second generation antihistamines, in the mid-1980s, about 10 years after their introduction in the market, several reports appeared in the literature indicating the rare occurrence of a form of polymorphic ventricular dysrhythmia, the 'torsade de pointes', after the administration of astemizole or terfenadine. This cardiac side-effect has been interpreted as a consequence of the interference of these drugs with cardiac K+ channels involved in action potential repolarization, and in particular with the IKr component of the cardiac repolarizing current. As the K+ channels encoded by the human ether-a-gogo-related gene (HERG) seem to represent the molecular basis of IKr, this cardiac K+ channel was soon recognized as a primary target for second generation antihistamine-induced proarrhythmic effects. In fact, both terfenadine and astemizole have been shown to block HERG K+ channels in a concentration range similar to that found in the plasma of subjects with cardiotoxic manifestations. However, no correlation can be found between the ability to prolong the cardiac action potential duration and the H1-antagonistic activity by several antihistamines, suggesting that HERG blockade and cardiotoxic potential are not class properties of second generation antihistamines. In fact, other molecules such as cetirizine, loratadine, acrivastine, and fexofenadine seem to lack both cardiotoxic potential and HERG-blocking ability at therapeutically relevant concentrations. The marked heterogeneity displayed by second generation antihistamines in their ability to prolong the cardiac action potential duration and to block HERG K+ channels might be of considerable therapeutical significance for those patients at risk of developing cardiac dysrhythmias and in need of therapy with H1-receptor blockers; it also emphasizes the importance of an evaluation of the possible blockade of HERG K+ channels during the early developmental phases of novel compounds belonging to this therapeutical class.
A molecular genetics-based epidemiological investigation was carried out in 1997 in the territory of North-West Tuscany, central Italy, to calculate incidence and prevalence rates of Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) and Becker muscular dystrophy (BMD). Results were compared with a previous epidemiological study conducted in the same area in 1981, in the pre-dystrophin era. Routine adoption of methods of molecular diagnosis determined an increase in prevalence of BMD from 1.06 x 10(-5) to 2.42 x 10(-5) inhabitants, while cumulative incidence of DMD was markedly decreased from 23.12 x 10(-5) during the period 1965-1976 to 10.71 x 10(-5) male live births during the period 1977 1994. The combined reduction of DMD/BMD diagnostic error rate and familial recurrence could explain these results, providing the bases for a consistent redefinition of dystrophinopathy carrier frequency in the area considered.
Our objective was to study the placebo response in Parkinson's disease (PD). We conducted a literature search in which placebo response was measured in all studies of PD from 1969 to April 1996. Strict criteria were defined to include or exclude published reports in our survey. The Parkinson Study Group database for Deprenyl &amp; Tocopherol Antioxidative Therapy of Parkinsonism (DATATOP) was reviewed and placebo &quot;responders&quot; were compared to placebo &quot;nonresponders&quot; by age, race, religion, level of education, duration of PD, and gender. A significant difference between the efficacy of placebo and that of active drug was reported in 61% (22 of 36) of the articles meeting the required criteria; DATATOP analysis showed no statistically significant epidemiologic differences between 140 placebo responders and 58 placebo nonresponders except in PD effect on current job. Although there is clearly a placebo response in PD patients, our review suggests that the variation in placebo response does not correlate with demographic factors such as age, gender, religion, level of education, or duration of PD.
The semicarbazide-sensitive amine oxidases constitute a group of copper-containing enzymes whose physiological function is unclear. The enzymes are present in various tissues, including blood plasma. At present, the source of the plasma enzyme in humans is not known. Results of a recent study suggested that semicarbazide-sensitive amine oxidase is expressed in the skeleton, e.g. in the spine. Using an indirect autoradiographic method in mice, we provide evidence that semicarbazide-sensitive amine oxidase is present in high abundance in bone tissue. Specific activities of semicarbazide-sensitive amine oxidase were estimated in blood samples from subjects with femoral bone fractures. Moreover, enzyme activities were also measured in patients suffering from prostate cancer with skeletal metastases. The level of specific semicarbazide-sensitive amine oxidase activity in serum was significantly elevated in patients with skeletal metastases compared with both healthy controls and patients having prostate cancer without signs of skeletal metastases. Based on the results of the present study, we propose that semicarbazide-sensitive amine oxidase in blood plasma may originate, at least in part, from the skeleton.
The end of the millennium provides an opportunity to review some of the common practices that were present in psychopharmacology during the 20th century. The author focuses on two approaches that have dominated research and guided the clinical application of psychopharmacologic therapeutics: the unitary clinically-based and single-lesion perspectives. The author expands upon these older formulations of neuropsychiatric disease pathogenesis and describes how the approach to psychopharmacologic research and therapeutics has changed in light of advances in the basic neurosciences. Relevant recent advances in the basic neurosciences that shed light on the pathophysiology of neuropsychiatric disease states and that guide psychopharmacologic practices are described. The use of atypical antipsychotic agents to treat schizophrenia is given as one example of the clinical applications of the approach to psychopharmacology in the next century.
Morphine significantly stimulated invertebrate immunocyte intracellular calcium level increases in a concentration-dependent manner in cells preloaded with Fura 2/AM. Morphine's action was blocked by prior exposure of the cells to the opiate receptor antagonist naloxone. Various opioid peptides did not exhibit this ability, indicating a morphine-mu 3 mediated process. In comparing the sequence of events concerning morphine's action in stimulating both [Ca2+]i and NO production in these cells, we found that the first event precedes the second by 42 +/- 7 s. The opiate stimulation of [Ca2+]i- was attenuated in cells leached of calcium. strongly suggesting that intracellular calcium levels regulate cNOS activity in invertebrate immunocytes.
Tobacco smoking is common among psychiatric patients, especially among those with schizophrenia, where the prevalence is extremely high, 74% to 88%, compared with 45% to 70% in patients with other psychiatric diagnoses. Patients with anxiety disorders are less well investigated in this respect, particularly obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) patients. Eighty-three psychiatric outpatients with OCD and 110 members of the Swedish OCD Association responded to questions concerning their smoking habits. Among OCD patients, 14% were current smokers (compared with 25% in the general population of Sweden), 72% had never smoked, and 11 previous smokers had stopped, mostly without any difficulties. Since a decreased smoking rate among OCD subjects was confirmed, the smoking prevalences in schizophrenia and OCD, respectively, seem to represent either end of a continuum, and OCD may also differ significantly from other anxiety disorders in this respect. Possible implications of this finding for the purported frontal lobe dysregulation in OCD are discussed.

Our experience, and that of others, suggests that hypertonic saline solution therapy reduces intracranial pressure and lateral displacement of the brain in patients with cerebral edema. This therapy appears most promising in patients who have head trauma or postoperative cerebral edema. Studies comparing hypertonic saline therapy with conventional therapies are limited. Additional randomized studies are needed to determine its safety and optimum duration of benefit and to determine the lesions most likely to be improved. To date, the cost effectiveness of hypertonic saline therapy is unknown. Caution is advised regarding its use until the results of more definitive trials investigating its efficacy and safety are known.
Significantly increased glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) expression was seen in postmortem brain tissue from demented patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) (73 cases, 61 females/12 males, mean age 84 +/- 9 years) compared to controls (22 cases, 10 females/12 males, mean age 78 +/- 9 years). In demented patients, the GFAP expression, counts of AD lesions, senile/neuritic plaques (SP/NP) and neurofibrillary tangles (NFT) were higher in patients carrying the apolipoprotein E (ApoE) epsilon4 allele compared to those without the ApoE epsilon4 allele. The astrogliosis correlated significantly with the counts of NFT in demented patients both with and without the ApoE epsilon4 allele. Furthermore, the astrogliosis correlated significantly with the counts of SP/NP, but this correlation, however, was influenced by the ApoE epsilon4 allele, being significant only in those cases without the ApoE epsilon4 allele. Our results demonstrate that not only the extent of AD lesions and GFAP expression, but also the relationship between AD lesions and the GFAP expression is influenced by the ApoE epsilon4 allele.
Old age and organic brain disorder are major risk factors for delirium in the elderly. The localization of the brain damage in dementia may be of importance for this risk. The aim of the present study was to investigate the rate of delirium in patients with different regional brain syndromes. Included in the study were 194 demented patients. The occurrence and intensity of four regional brain syndromes were estimated: parietal lobe syndrome, frontal lobe syndrome, subcortical syndrome and global brain syndrome. The analyses showed that the rate of delirium was significantly higher when a global brain syndrome was predominant than when any one of the other syndromes predominated.
We investigated the influence of the apolipoprotein (ApoE) epsilon4 allele on the rate of brain atrophy in patients with clinical dementia and in subjects at risk for dementia. Eighty-one subjects, consecutively referred to a memory clinic due to symptoms of dementia, went through a comprehensive examination, including cerebral magnetic resonance imaging. After an initial investigation these subjects were divided into one of six diagnostic groups; Alzheimer's disease (AD, n = 23), objective cognitive impairment (OCI, n = 27), subjective cognitive impairment (SCI, n = 17), vascular dementia (VaD), frontotemporal dementia (FTD) and unspecified dementia (USD). The last three groups were joined into one diagnostic group designated 'other dementia' (OD, altogether n = 14). In order to study the progression of cognitive impairment as well as the rate of atrophy in different brain regions all subjects were reinvestigated after an average period of 16 months. Interest was focused on investigating if those subjects with one or two epsilon4 alleles differed in either dementia progression or rate of brain atrophy compared to those without the epsilon4 allele. We found that the ApoE epsilon4 carriers had a statistically significantly larger increase in ventricular volume as compared with the ApoE epsilon4 noncarriers. In all diagnostic groups the ApoE epsilon4 carriers showed a greater rate of ventricular volume increase, as compared to the noncarriers. However, this difference was statistically significant only for the OD subjects. No statistical significant changes over time were seen for whole brain volume or volume of the temporal lobes and the medial temporal lobes. The diagnostic groups differed in dementia progression with the AD subjects having the most pronounced reduction in MMSE scores as compared to subjects at risk for AD (OCI and SCI subjects). The presence of ApoE epsilon4 allele did not influence the change in MMSE in any of the diagnostic groups.
The gene for apolipoprotein E (APOE) is polymorphic, and its variant APOE4 is a major risk factor for the development of Alzheimer-type dementia (AD). Another risk factor for AD appears to be negative cobalamin balance, which is very common in elderly people. Cobalamin and folate are interdependent and essential components of the one-carbon metabolism. Another important component is methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR), the gene for which is also polymorphic. Thermolabile MTHFR (tMTHFR), a gene variant that reduces the activity of its enzyme, is common in the general population. In the present study, 75% of 140 AD patients had at least one APOE4 allele. The numbers of APOE4 and tMTHFR alleles correlated significantly with the serum folate levels, however, in opposite directions. The significance of this was augmented by an inverse correlation between APOE4 and tMTHFR. Thus, not only MTHFR but also APOE appears to be related to the one-carbon metabolism, suggesting that APOE4 and insufficient one-carbon metabolism may be synergistic risk factors for AD.
The aim of this study was to examine the haemodynamic response to seizures in three infants with Sturge-Weber syndrome by measuring regional cerebral blood flow using transcranial Doppler sonography and 99mTc HMPAO SPECT. Time-locked video/digital EEG recording was carried out for ictal studies. MRI was performed in all subjects. SPECT showed hemispheric hypoperfusion interictally in all three patients and also ictally in one of the three; a small region of hyperperfusion was seen on the same ictal scan in the latter, ie. the patient with interictal and ictal hypoperfusion. In the two older children middle cerebral artery velocity (MCAV) was reduced by between 29 and 62% in the middle cerebral artery of the predominantly affected hemisphere compared with the contralateral side. During seizures, increases of 6 to 30% in MCAV were recorded for the clinically seizing hemisphere compared with 24 to 170% for the contralateral side in four of the seizures recorded. In one infant, MCAV fell bilaterally during a seizure that generalized (-18 and -43% in the predominantly affected and contralateral side respectively). Sequential recordings in one infant suggested that, with time, the haemodynamic response to seizures of the unaffected hemisphere may decrease. These findings suggest that the venous malformation in SWS is associated with an impairment of the cerebral haemodynamic response to seizure activity.
Event-related potentials were used to determine whether infants, like adults, show differences in spatial and temporal characteristics of brain activation during face and object recognition. Three aspects of visual processing were identified: (a) differentiation of face vs. object (P400 at occipital electrode was shorter latency for faces), (b) recognition of familiar identity (Nc, or negative component, at fronto-temporal electrodes [FTEs] was of larger amplitude for familiar stimuli), and (c) encoding novelty (slow wave at FTEs was larger for unfamiliar stimuli). The topography of the Nc was influenced by category type: Effects of familiarity were limited to the midline and right anterior temporal electrodes for faces but extended to all temporal electrodes for objects. Results show that infants' experience with specific examples within categories and their general category knowledge influence the neural correlates of visual processing.
Dramatic gains in knowledge have been made in the fields of neuroscience, human development, and developmental psychopathology during the past quarter of a century. Despite the advances that have been achieved in each discipline separately, considerably less progress has occurred in understanding the relation between neurobiological and behavioral development in normal and atypical populations. Research has increasingly demonstrated that abnormalities that occur early in development may result in the emergence of aberrant neural circuitry that eventuates in relatively enduring forms of psychopathology. Knowledge of normal neurobiological development provides a powerful foundation for understanding the contributions that neurodevelopmental processes make to the etiology and sequelae of psychopathology across the life course. An integrated perspective wherein an appreciation of the complex neural, psychological, and social-contextual processes that cohere to bring about normal and pathological outcomes is necessary in order to advance understanding of the genesis and epigenesis of mental disorders. Such an approach will require a reduction of the schisms that so often separate neurobiological and behavioral research.
Mice lacking the POU domain-containing transcription factor Brn-3a have several neuronal deficits. In the present paper, we show that Brn-3a plays two distinct roles during development of the trigeminal ganglion. In this ganglion, neurons expressing the neurotrophin receptors, TrkB and TrkC, are born between E9.5 and E11.5. In the absence of Brn-3a, very few neurons ever express TrkC, but TrkB-expressing neurons are present at E12.5 in elevated numbers, suggesting that Brn-3a may be a constituent of a regulatory circuit determining which Trk receptor is expressed by these early-born neurons. Most neurons expressing the neurotrophin receptor TrkA are generated between E11.5 and E13.5 in this ganglion and their initial generation is not prevented by absence of Brn-3a. However, after E12. 5, absence of Brn-3a results in a progressive loss in neuronal TrkA and TrkB expression, which leads to a massive wave of apoptosis that peaks at E15.5. Despite complete absence of the Trk receptors at E17. 5 and P0, approximately 30% of the normal complement of neurons survive to birth in Brn-3a mutants. Approximately 70% of these express the GDNF receptor subunit, c-ret; many can be sustained by GDNF, but not by NGF in culture. Thus, the vast majority of surviving neurons are probably sustained in vivo by trophic factor(s) whose receptors are not regulated by Brn-3a. In conclusion, our data indicate the specific functions of Brn-3a in controlling the survival and differentiation of trigeminal neurons by regulating expression of each of the three Trk receptors.
Over four-fifths of all strokes are due to thrombotic or embolic occlusion of cerebral arteries. There is a strong rationale for considering antithrombotic therapy for the treatment of patients with acute ischaemic stroke. Antiplatelet therapy with 150 to 300 mg of aspirin (acetylsalicylic acid) started within the first 48 hours of an ischaemic stroke improves patient outcome in the short and long term, with a low risk of adverse effects. Anticoagulants such as heparin may reduce the risk of developing deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism in patients with stroke, but randomised controlled trials have demonstrated a significant and dose-dependent risk of intracranial haemorrhage. The routine use of parenteral anticoagulants, including unfractionated heparin, low-molecular-weight heparins and heparinoids in the acute phase of ischaemic stroke is not associated with any net short or long term benefit. Aspirin is, therefore, the antithrombotic drug of choice in the treatment of acute ischaemic stroke.
We performed clinical, radiological (MRI) and neurophysiological (NCV, SEPs, and BAEPs) investigations in 36 unselected patients affected by Systemic Lupus Erythematosus (SLE). Fifteen patients (42%) presented clear neurological events and were considered as definite neuropsychiatric lupus (NPLE); 21 (58%) presented minor subjective complaints or no neurological problems referable to SLE and were considered as no-NPLE. Twenty-three patients (64%) showed neurophysiological abnormalities: 21 (58%) presented central abnormal neurophysiological measurements (including SEP and BAEP values), while 17 (47%) has slowed peripheral nerve conduction. Twenty-six out of 36 patients executed brain MRI examination. High intensity spots (HIS) in deep or subcortical white matter were the most common abnormalities and were present in 19 of the 26 patients (73%). We found that the incidence of neurophysiological and radiological abnormalities did not significantly differ in neurologically symptomatic and asymptomatic patients. Central nervous system impairment evidenced by abnormal N13-20 interpeak intervals (p = 0.05) and HIS (p = 0.01) findings was significantly associated with the presence of cutaneous vasculitis; while peripheral nerve involvement was significantly more frequent in patients with renal failure (p = 0.006).
Given that the criteria for sexual performance including males considered normal is not clear in available literature, the authors sought a way to choose standards that would leave no doubts as far competence of performance and neurophysiological integrity in the control of sexual performance. The results found in more than 5,000 electromyographic evaluations on erectile dysfunction were equivalent to the results from a previous research, &quot;The electromyographic gold standard to male sexual capacity&quot;, where normal males were evaluated according to the latency period, amplitude and morphology. To classify the results as &quot;The gold standard&quot;, we used a selected and accurate method that excluded any doubts about the sexual performance. These men had the installation capacity, maintenance and control of their ejaculation, totally voluntary. The similarity between the clinical picture and the electromyographic events, suggests that the amplitude and the morphology, beyond the latency period, may indicate the quality of neurotransmission.
The steroid hormone androstenedione profoundly influences the development and expression of sexual and aggressive behavior. The neural basis of these effects are, however, poorly understood. In this study we evaluated androstenedione's ability to maintain vasopressin peptide levels in the gonadal steroid-responsive vasopressin cells of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and the centromedial amygdala, and their projections. Adult male rats were castrated and given testosterone, androstenedione or no hormonal treatment for five weeks. Their brains were then processed for vasopressin immunoreactivity. Androstenedione and testosterone treatment were equally effective in preventing the reduction of vasopressin immunoreactivity associated with castration. Androstenedione may therefore be able to mimic the effects of testosterone on testosterone-responsive neural systems.
Although androgens have myriad effects on the skeleton, the regulation of androgen action in bone is not well understood. Androgen receptors (ARs) are known to play an important role in mediating androgen action. We have examined the effects of androgens and other sex steroids on AR levels in osteoblastic cells in vitro using two clonal human cell lines, SaOS-2 and U-2 OS. AR protein levels were quantitated both by specific androgen binding studies and Western analyses, and AR messenger RNA was measured with RNase protection assays. Potential changes in AR functionality was assessed by reporter assays. Treatment of osteoblastic cells with the nonaromatizable androgen 5alpha-dihydrotestosterone (DHT) increased specific androgen binding 2-to 4-fold. Similar increases in AR protein levels were documented by Western analysis in both cell lines. The androgen-mediated increase in receptor levels was time and dose dependent as well as androgen specific. Steady-state AR messenger RNA levels were also increased by DHT. When AR concentrations in osteoblastic cells were elevated with exogenous receptor, there was an enhancement of DHT responsiveness, measured by increased trans-activation of an androgen-responsive promoter. Thus, androgen exposure increased androgen receptor protein levels and specific androgen binding in osteoblastic cells. Androgen action as measured by androgen-mediated transcriptional activation is enhanced in the presence of elevated AR levels. Consequently, these studies have revealed an additional means by which androgens may modulate skeletal metabolism.

In our companion paper, we selectively bred offspring of a Long Evans Hooded and Wistar rat cross for either fast or slow rates of amygdala kindling (Racine et al., 1999. Development of kindling-prone and kindling resistant rats: Selective breeding and electrophysiological studies, Epilepsy Res. 35, 183-195). Within 10 generations, there was no overlap in the distribution of kindling rates between these newly developed FAST and SLOW kindling strains. In the present report, we compared the local excitability, kindling rates, and convulsion profiles of kindling sites in either the amygdala, dorsal hippocampus, piriform cortex or perirhinal cortex in the two strains. Local excitability, measured as the local afterdischarge (AD) threshold and its duration, showed varied effects between structures and strains. Before kindling, the AD threshold was lower in the FAST than the SLOW rats in the hippocampus, piriform and perirhinal cortices, but not the amygdala (the selection structure). Also, the duration of the AD threshold duration was significantly longer in the FAST than in the SLOW rats in all structures, except the CA1 hippocampus. Most of these differences were maintained after kindling. Kindling itself was significantly faster in the FAST compared with the SLOW rats in all structures; however, the different structural kindling rates showed proportional differences between strains that were about five times different in the amygdala compared with only about two times different in the hippocampus. This suggested a selection bias for the amygdala and its networks. As in other rat strains, the fastest kindling rates were seen in the perirhinal cortex followed by the piriform cortex, amygdala and hippocampus in both FAST and SLOW rats. Other important differences between strains and structures occurred in the stage-5 convulsion profiles, including latency to forelimb clonus, clonus duration and duration of associated local afterdischarges. The differences in kindling profiles between strains and structures were discussed with respect to possible underlying mechanisms, significance for epileptogenesis, and impact on other normal behaviours.
The cell nucleus plays an essential role in all aspects of cell function and regulation. Most of the nuclear proteins/peptides are synthesized in the cytoplasm and transported into the nucleus through the nuclear pore complexes. The nuclear proteins/peptides conjugate with each other and interact in transcriptional activation/inactivation. Several of the high molecular mass transcription factors (&gt; 30 kDa) have been identified and characterized. However, the information on the low molecular mass proteins/peptides of the nucleus is limited. We have investigated these low molecular mass proteins/peptides from the nucleus of human peripheral blood lymphocytes using reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography (RP-HPLC). The HPLC fractions were further analysed by matrix assisted laser desorption/ionization time of flight (MALDI-TOF) mass spectrometry, electrospray ionization time of flight (ESI-TOF) mass spectrometry and electrospray ionization fourier transform ion cyclotron resonance (ESI-FTICR) mass spectrometry for mass determination. Using this combination of mass spectrometry techniques and microsequence analysis, we have shown that human lymphocyte nuclei contain defensins, a mixture of human neutrophil granule peptide 1, 2 and 3.
High blood levels of glucocorticoids are associated with increased mortality, confusion and poor functional outcome in stroke patients. It has been proposed that inhibition of glucocorticoids in acute stroke might be beneficial, but experimental data are conflicting and no long-term follow-up study has been reported. We have studied whether pre- or postoperative administration of metyrapone, a steroid synthesis inhibitor, can influence long-term outcome after ligation of the right middle cerebral artery (MCA) distal to the striatal branches in hypertensive rats. Metyrapone (200 mg/kg) was administered either 30 min before or 1, 12 and 24 h after MCA occlusion. Limb placements and ability to traverse a rotating pole were evaluated pre- and postoperatively. Infarct size, histology and GFAP immunoreactivity were evaluated on 5 microm coronal sections from brains perfused in situ 4 weeks after the ischemic event. Pretreatment did not influence outcome, whereas postoperative administration of metyrapone significantly increased infarct volume (P &lt; 0.05). Post-treated rats performed significantly worse than vehicle-treated rats on the rotating pole 3 weeks after the operation (P &lt; 0.05). Our results do not support the hypothesis that inhibition of glucocorticoid synthesis improves outcome after cerebral ischemia.
It is well documented that dopamine and dopamine D1 agonists convert the protein phosphatase-1 inhibitor, DARPP-32, from its dephosphorylated, inactive form into its Thr34-phosphorylated, active form, and that these effects on DARPP-32 constitute essential components of the mechanism by which dopamine and D1 agonists achieve their biological effects. In contrast to dopamine and D1 agonists, dopamine D2 agonists dephosphorylate and inactivate DARPP-32. Here we have examined the possibility that the biological effects of dopamine D2 receptor agonists might also involve DARPP-32. For this purpose, we have examined regulation of the activity of the electrogenic ion pump Na+,K+-ATPase, an established target for dopamine signalling. We have found that dopamine D1 agonists and dopamine D2 agonists inhibit Na+,K+-ATPase activity in dissociated cells from the mouse neostriatum and that, in each case, the effect is abolished in cells from mice deficient in DARPP-32. We conclude that DARPP-32 may play an obligatory role in dopaminergic signalling mediated both by D1 receptors and by D2 receptors.
A rigorous characterization of the dynamic regimes underlying human seizures is needed to understand, and possibly control, the transition to seizure. Intra- or extracranial brain electrical activity was recorded in five patients with partial epilepsy, and the interictal and ictal activity analysed to determine the dynamics of seizures. We constructed first-return one-dimensional maps by fitting the scatter plots of interpeak intervals. The features of the mapping indicated that type III intermittency is the dynamic characteristic of the ictal events. This was confirmed using histograms of the durations of the regular phases during seizures. The intermittent regime explains the abrupt transitions observed during ictal events in terms of transient stabilization of the unstable steady state.
Programmed neuronal cell death is common during development, and is thought to be important in the elimination of errors in axonal projection, cell position and sculpting of neuronal circuits. However, the potential importance of programmed cell death for complex behaviour in the adult animal has never been addressed. We studied motor abilities in a strain of transgenic mice with neuronal overexpression of the human Bcl-2 protein, which have supernumerary neurons due to reduced developmental cell death. Our results show that these mice have a clear deficiency in fine timing of motor coordination without impairment of basic motor functions. This is the first indication that altered developmental cell death and the consequent neuronal surplus can impair complex behaviour in the adult animal.
Using indirect immunofluorescence, neuropeptide Y Y1 receptor (Y1 receptor)-like immunoreactivity (LI) was localized close to the plasmalemma of small neurons in lumbar dorsal root ganglia (DRGs) and neurons in the inner lamina II of the lumbar spinal cord of the rat. Using confocal microscopy, colocalization of Y1 receptor-LI and transferrin receptor-LI, a marker for endosomes and coated vesicles, was observed in dot-like structures along the plasmalemma. Under the electron microscope, Y1 receptor-LI was localized in coated vesicles and endosomes, in the membrane of tubular cisternae, sometimes connected to multivesicular bodies, and in the plasmalemma. These complex distribution patterns may reflect receptor turnover and internalization processes. In the lamina II of the spinal dorsal horn, Y1 receptor-LI was localized in the plasmalemma of neurons without any apparent association with paramembrane structures, as described above for the DRG neurons. Many dendrites were Y1 receptor-positive, and some of them made synaptic contacts with unstained axonal terminals. In general, Y1 receptor-LI was localized in the membrane outside the postsynaptic density. Double-immunofluorescence staining showed that most Y1 receptor-immunoreactive neurons in lamina II contained somatostatin-LI. Both in DRG and dorsal horn neurons, the Y1 receptor thus seems to represent a postjunctional/postsynaptic receptor.
The effect of purine enzyme inhibition on catecholamine metabolism was investigated in guinea pigs. Catecholamine levels were measured in the nigrostriatal brain structures of male guinea pigs following treatment with allopurinol (a xanthine oxidase inhibitor; 250 mg/kg i.p.) or allantoxanimide (a uricase inhibitor; 200 mg/kg i.p.) once a day for 4 days. Tissue was analyzed from the striatum and the substantia nigra. Norepinephrine, dopamine, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC), ascorbic acid, and uric acid were quantified with electrochemical and ultraviolet detection following separation by liquid chromatography. Allopurinol had no effect on nigrostriatal dopamine levels but decreased DOPAC levels (P&lt;0.05) in the striatum. Allantoxanimide increased norepinephrine levels and decreased DOPAC levels in the striatum (P&lt;0.05). Allopurinol decreased uric acid levels in the striatum and substantia nigra (P&lt;0.05). Allantoxanimide increased uric acid levels in the striatum and the substantia nigra (P&lt;0.05). These results indicate that alterations in purinergic enzyme activity can influence catecholamine metabolism within the nigrostriatal system of the guinea pig.
Trunk and head movements were characterized over a wide range of walking speeds to determine the relationship between stride length, stepping frequency, vertical head translation, pitch rotation of the head, and pitch trunk rotation as a function of gait velocity. Subjects (26-44 years old) walked on a linear treadmill at velocities of 0.6-2.2 m/s. The head and trunk were modeled as rigid bodies, and rotation and translation were determined using a video-based motion analysis system. At walking speeds up to 1.2 m/s there was little head pitch movement in space, and the head pitch relative to the trunk was compensatory for trunk pitch. As walking velocity increased, trunk pitch remained approximately invariant, but a significant head translation developed. This head translation induced compensatory head pitch in space, which tended to point the head at a fixed point in front of the subject that remained approximately invariant with regard to walking speed. The predominant frequency of head translation and rotation was restricted to a narrow range from 1.4 Hz at 0.6 m/s to 2.5 Hz at 2.2 m/s. Within the range of 0.8-1.8 m/s, subjects tended to increase their stride length rather than step frequency to walk faster, maintaining the predominant frequency of head movement at close to 2.0 Hz. At walking speeds above 1.2 m/s, head pitch in space was highly coherent with, and compensatory for, vertical head translation. In the range 1.2-1.8 m/s, the power spectrum of vertical head translation was the most highly tuned, and the relationship between walking speed and head and trunk movements was the most linear. We define this as an optimal range of walking velocity with regard to head-trunk coordination. The coordination of head and trunk movement was less coherent at walking velocities below 1.2 m/s and above 1.8 m/s. These results suggest that two mechanisms are utilized to maintain a stable head fixation distance over the optimal range of walking velocities. The relative contribution of each mechanism to head orientation depends on the frequency of head movement and consequently on walking velocity. From consideration of the frequency characteristics of the compensatory head pitch, we infer that compensatory head pitch movements may be produced predominantly by the angular vestibulocollic reflex (aVCR) at low walking speeds and by the linear vestibulocollic reflex (1VCR) at the higher speeds.
The proteasome is a large protease complex that is thought to be responsible for proteolytic removal of damaged proteins. We have previously shown that the level of proteolytic activity due to the proteasome is lower in lens epithelium from human cataractous lenses compared to the activity in epithelium from clear donor lenses. This study aimed to characterize the three main peptidase activities of the proteasome in human lens epithelium with respect to kinetic properties and sensitivity to heat and oxidation. Human lens epithelia were obtained from cataract surgery and analysis performed on pools of epithelial cell cytoplasm. Using the fluorogenic peptide substrates Suc-Leu-Leu-Val-Tyr-AMC (LLVY), Boc-Val-Gly-Arg-AMC (VGR) and Z-Leu-Leu-Glu-betaNA (LLE), Km-values of 56, 678 and 108 micrometers were obtained. All peptidase activities were inhibited by lactacystin, a specific proteasome inhibitor, but at very different rates; with LLVY-hydrolysing activity being the most sensitive (Ki50%=0.15 micrometers). Thermostability was investigated by performing the proteolytic assay at 20 degrees, 37 degrees and 53 degrees C. The trypsin-like activity, as measured by VGR, was completely stable at 53 degrees C for at least 24 hr whereas hydrolysis of LLVY and LLE declined after a few hours at 37 degrees C. Oxidative inhibition was induced by incubation of the samples in 0.5 m m H2O2for 1 or 24 hr. One hour exposure to H2O2caused moderate inhibition of all peptidase activities. The activity could be partially restored by adding 1 m m dithiotreitol, indicating the dependency on intact SH-groups. After 24 hr, peptidase activities were decreased to 25% (LLVY), 73% (VGR) and 44% (LLE) of corresponding control. This inhibition was irreversible for VGR and LLE, but could be partly prevented by the presence of heat shock protein 90 (LLVY and VGR) or alpha-crystallin (LLVY). These data show that the peptidase activities of the human lens proteasome can be modulated by metabolites, such as reactive oxygen species, and by endogenous proteins such as alpha-crystallin and heat shock protein 90.
This investigation was undertaken to study the effect of 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2-DG) on beta, beta'-iminodipropionitrile (IDPN)-induced neurobehavioral toxicity in mice. Animals were divided into five groups of nine animals each. One of the groups served as control and received vehicle only, whereas the remaining four groups were treated with IDPN (250 mg/kg, i.p.) daily for 11 days. 2-DG was injected intraperitoneally in the doses of 0 (vehicle only), 100, 300, and 600 mg/kg daily 30 min before IDPN administration. The animals were observed for dyskinetic behavior including vertical (retrocollis) and horizontal (laterocollis) head movements and circling. Twenty-four hours after the last dose of IDPN, the animals were sacrificed by decapitation and striata were isolated from the brain for the analysis of serotonin (5-HT). Our results showed that 2-DG significantly and dose dependently attenuated the incidence and severity of IDPN-induced neurobehavioral toxicity. Administration of 2-DG also protected mice against IDPN-induced increase in striatal 5-HT levels. Further studies are warranted to investigate the neuroprotective mechanism of 2-DG against IDPN-induced neurotoxicity.
Reconstruction of neocortical circuitry by transplantation of neural precursors, or by manipulation of endogenous precursors, may depend critically upon both local microenvironmental control signals and the intrinsic competence of populations of precursors to appropriately respond to external molecular controls. Dependence on the developmental state of donor or endogenous precursor cells in achieving appropriate differentiation, integration, and connectivity is not clearly understood. Recent studies have demonstrated the ability to generate expandable, often clonal neural precursors at various stages of development. Transplantation of a variety of these precursors suggests that precursor differentiation and integration within the central nervous system (CNS) may depend directly on the level of cellular maturation, with less differentiated, earlier stage precursors offering more flexible but less efficient integration and more differentiated, later stage precursors offering more efficient differentiation to specific phenotypes. To further investigate this hypothesis within neocortex, we used the relatively immature HiB5 multipotent neural precursor cell line derived from embryonic day 16 hippocampus, which is less mature than precursor types that have demonstrated neuronal differentiation in adult neocortex. HiB5 cells labeled fluorescently, radioactively, and genetically were transplanted into murine neocortex under three different conditions expected to offer varying levels of instructive and permissive microenvironmental signals: (1) the developing cortex in utero; (2) regions of adult neocortex undergoing targeted pyramidal neuronal degeneration in which developmental signals are upregulated and in which later stage precursors and immature neurons undergo directed pyramidal neuron differentiation; or (3) the intact adult neocortex. Differentiation and integration of transplanted cells were examined histologically and immunocytochemically by morphology and using neuronal- and glial-specific markers. We found that these precursors underwent differentiation toward cortical neuron phenotypes with characteristic morphologies when transplanted in utero, but failed to do so under either of the adult conditions. HiB5 precursors demonstrated highly immature characteristics in vitro, consistently expressing neuroepithelial but not glial or neuronal markers. Under all conditions, donor cells survived and migrated 1-2 mm from the injection track 2 to 4 weeks after transplantation. HiB5 neural precursors transplanted into the developing cortex of embryonic mice in utero migrated within the cortex, integrated well into the host parenchyma, and differentiated toward morphologically diverse, neuronal phenotypes. HiB5 cells transplanted into the intact cortex of adult mice survived, but did not show neuronal differentiation. In contrast to slightly later stage neural precursors and embryonic neurons used in previous transplantation studies, the HiB5 cells also failed to undergo neuronal differentiation after transplantation into regions undergoing induced apoptotic neuronal degeneration in adult cortex. These results suggested that these early hippocampal-derived precursors might not be fully competent to respond to later stage differentiation and/or survival signals important in neocortex and known to be upregulated in regions undergoing targeted neuronal apoptosis, including the TrkB neurotrophin receptor ligands BDNF and NT-4/5. We investigated this hypothesis and found that undifferentiated HiB5 cells lack catalytic trkB neurotrophin receptors at the mRNA and protein levels, while confirming that they express trkC receptors under the same conditions. Taken together, these findings support a progressive sequence of neural precursor differentiation and a spectrum of competence by precursors to respond to instructive microenvironmental signals. (ABSTRACT TRUNCATED)
Uridine triphosphate (UTP) evoked inhibition of adrenaline-evoked cAMP accumulation in cultured equine epithelial cells (EC50, 1.8 +/- 0.2 microM) and this effect was mimicked by 5-Br-UTP (EC50, 6.6 +/- 1.8 microM) and uridine diphosphate (UDP; EC50, 96 +/- 26 microM). This inhibitory action of UTP was abolished by pre-treating cells with pertussis toxin (10 ng ml-1, 24 h). UTP (EC50, 2.3 +/- 0.3 microM) and 5-Br-UTP (EC50, 29.4 +/- 9.4 microM) also increased intracellular free calcium ([Ca2+]i) whilst UDP did not; the two effects are thus differentially sensitive to these pyrimidine nucleotides. ATP evoked cAMP accumulation in control cells and this response was unaffected by pertussis toxin. There is, therefore, no indication that ATP activates the pertussis toxin-sensitive inhibitory pathway. The UTP-evoked inhibition of cAMP accumulation was abolished by isobutylmethylxanthine (IBMX, 5 mM) and so the negative control over cAMP levels appears to be mediated by receptors that are selectively activated by pyrimidine nucleotides and permit control over phosphodiesterase activity.
Gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH, previously called leutinizing hormone-releasing hormone, LHRH) is the final common signaling molecule used by the brain to regulate reproduction in all vertebrates. Recently, genes encoding two other GnRH forms have been discovered. Here we present a phylogenetic analysis that shows that the GnRH genes fall naturally into three distinct branches, each of which shares not only a molecular signature but also characteristic expression sites in the brain. The GnRH genes appear to have arisen through gene duplication from a single ancestral GnRH whose origin predates vertebrates. Several lines of data support this suggestion, including the fact that all three genes share an identical exonic structure. The existence of three distinct GnRH families suggests a new, natural nomenclature for the genes, and in addition, we present a logical proposal for naming the peptide sequences. The two recently discovered GnRH genes are unusual because they encode decapeptides that are identical in all the species in which they have been found. The control of gene expression also differs among the three gene families as might be expected since they have had separate evolutionary trajectories for perhaps 500 million years.

Previous experiments have shown that, in principle, the addition of noise to any vowel coded by an analogue multichannel cochlear implant can enhance the representation of formant information by the temporal pattern of evoked nerve discharges. The optimal addition of noise to some vowel stimuli caused a largely uniform transmission of all input harmonics, including those related to a formant. But for other vowel stimuli, the optimal addition of noise caused preferential transmission of the harmonic closest to a formant compared with other input harmonics. Such preferential transmission may be useful to a cochlear implantee for formant estimation, but the basis of this transmission is unknown. In the present study, the nature of this preferential transmission was investigated with a set of parallel discriminators (or level-crossing detectors) to determine whether the inherent threshold of a nerve fiber was the main cause of the effect. An explicit threshold was found to account for some but not all of the previously observed preferential transmission. Furthermore, many discriminators were required to obtain preferential transmission. Therefore, preferential transmission of a formant-related harmonic may be best achieved by pre-processing a stimulus and using methods associated with stochastic resonance.
Conventional analogue multichannel cochlear implants are unlikely to convey formant information by the fine time structure of evoked discharges. Theoretically, however, the addition of noise to the channel outputs could enhance the representation of formants by time coding. In this study, the potential benefit of noise in analogue coding schemes was investigated using a computer model of cochlear implant stimulation. The cochlear nerve was modelled by the Frankenhauser-Huxley equations. For all five vowels investigated, the optimal addition of noise to the first channel of the simulated implant (200-671 Hz) caused enhancement of the first formant representation (as seen in amplitude spectra of the simulated discharges). For vowels with a low-frequency second formant, clear enhancement of the second formant resulted from the optimal addition of noise to the third channel (1200-2116 Hz). On the basis of the present computational study, additive noise would be expected to enhance the coding of temporal information by the discharges of a single nerve fiber.
Vestibular and cochlear regeneration following ototoxic insult from aminoglycoside antibiotics has been well documented, particularly in birds. In the present study, intraotic application of a 2 mg streptomycin paste was used to achieve complete vestibular hair cell destruction in pigeons (Columba livia) while preserving regenerative ability. Scanning electron microscopy was used to quantify hair cell density longitudinally during regeneration in three different utricular macula locations, including the striola, central and peripheral regions. The utricular epithelium was void of stereocilia (indicating hair cell loss) at 4 days after intraotic treatment with streptomycin. At 2 weeks the stereocilia began to appear randomly and mostly in an immature form. However, when present most kinocilia were polarized toward the developing striola. Initially, regeneration occurred more rapidly in the central and peripheral regions of the utricle as compared to the striola. As regeneration proceeded from 2 to 12 weeks, hair cell density in the striola region equaled the density noted in the central and peripheral regions. At 24 weeks, hair cell density of the central and peripheral regions was equal to normal values, however the striola region had a slightly greater hair cell density than that observed for normal animals.
A symposium on 'Neurodegenerative disorders: from management to disease modification', organized by Athena Neurosciences (a division of Elan Pharma Ltd) was held at the Royal College of Physicians in London. Speakers outlined recent clinical advances in understanding of the underlying mechanisms of conditions such as multiple sclerosis, Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease.
We consider methods of formulating indexes to identify abnormalities in tremor appropriate for computerized tremor analysis systems. Characterization of amplitude, frequency, and &quot;harmonicity&quot; are considered as well as how to combine several such characteristics into a single index to discriminate normal from abnormal tremor effectively. The methodological issues discussed here should be of interest to researchers and clinicians working with tremor in general and to both users and developers of computer tremor analysis systems.

Effect of the extent of motor seizure modification on cardiovascular responses in ECT was studied at the second ECT session in 50 (ULECT=25) consenting patients. Twenty five patients each received either 0.5 mg/kg or 1 mg/kg of succinylcholine in a random design. Blood pressure and heart rate were recorded on five occasions during the ECT session. Extent of motor seizure was assessed on a five point scale by two raters blind to succinylcholine dose. Two raters had good interrater agreement on the scale. Significantly more patients had poor modification with 0.5 mg/kg (68%) than with 1 mg/kg (12%) of succinylcholine. Rate-pressure-product (RPP=systolic BPx Heart rate) significantly changed over the five occasions, maximal being in ictal occasion, but the two succinylcholine dose groups did not differ. Ictal RPP positively correlated with post-anaesthesia RPP, ECT stimulus dose, seizure threshold and both seizure durations (Motor and EEG). Likewise, postictal RPP correlated with seizure threshold and actual ECT stimulus dose. Neither correlated with the motor seizure modification scores. In multiple, stepwise, linear regression models neither ictal nor post-ictal RPP variance was significantly explained by the extent of motor seizure modification scores. Hence, RPP changes during ECT may be reflecting cerebral mechanisms of ECT.
Efficacy studies comparing ECT and tricyclics in depression have had methodological limitations. This study compared EC T and imipramine (IMN) prescribed as the first line of treatment in major depression, Drug-naive, consenting, DSM-IV major depression patients (n=28), were randomized to receive either bilateral ECTs or IMN (225 mg/d) for four weeks. Severity of depression was scored at twice weekly intervals. Subjective side effects were scored at second and fourth week. Patients had significant reductions in depression scores over time but there were no differences between the two treatment groups. The rate of antidepressant response did not significantly differ between the two groups. ECT group had significantly fewer side effects. IMN offered therapeutic response comparable to ECT without compromising on the speed of antidepressant response, but caused more side effects.
The practice of ophthalmology and psychiatry meet over in several aspects of patient diagnosis, management &amp; therapy. The ophthalmologists should be able to recognise signs and symptoms of psychiatric disorder. Non organic disorders could have ophthalmologic manifestations related both the afferent system and motor system related symptoms. Ophthalmologist should be aware of conditions like functional vision loss and visual field loss, voluntary nystagmus, spasm of near reflex, non-organic disturbances of eyelid function, ocular and facial sensation and psychosomatic diseases of eye.Many of the drugs used in psychiatry may cause ophthalmological side effects. These drugs can affect retina, optic nerve, higher visual centre, cornea, lens, ocular motor system and intra ocular pressure. Thalidomide used in 1950s was known to cause congenital ocular defects. Psychological reaction and psychiatric complications are well known after cataract surgery.Other then these problems there are psychiatric disorders which can present ophthalmologic signs and symptoms.
Studies in autonomic targets have shown that nerves may be required for the development and maintenance of postsynaptic receptor populations. We have examined this relationship in the rat mesenteric artery, assessing mRNA expression levels for a range of neuroreceptors after neonatal sympathectomy, using 6-hydroxydopamine or antisera directed against nerve growth factor, and sensory denervation, using capsaicin. Total RNA was extracted from 28 day old rats and reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction was performed, using primers specific for the alpha1(A,B,D)- and alpha2(A,B,C)-adrenergic, neurokinin (NKI-NK3), muscarinic (M1-M5) and P2X purinergic (P2x1-7) receptor families. Results showed no decreases in mRNA expression of any of the specific receptor subtypes after either sympathetic or sensory denervation. Small increases in mRNA expression were detected following sensory denervation for some of the receptor subtypes. We conclude that neither sympathetic nor sensory nerves are mandatory for the expression of mRNA of a range of neuroreceptors in the mesenteric vascular bed of the rat.
'Fen-phen' refers to the off-label combination of the appetite suppressants fenfluramine and phentermine. The rationale for the fen-phen combination was that the two drugs exerted independent actions on brain satiety mechanisms so that it was possible to use lower doses of each drug and yet retain a common action on suppressing appetite while minimizing adverse drug effects. The focus of the present review is to consider whether fenfluramine and phentermine exert actions that are additive in nature or whether these two drugs exhibit drug-drug synergism. The fen-phen combination results in synergism for the suppression of appetite and body weight, the reduction of brain serotonin levels, pulmonary vasoconstriction and valve disease. Fen-phen synergism may reflect changes in the pharmacokinetics of drug distribution, common actions on membrane ion currents, or interactions between neuronal release and reuptake mechanisms with MAO-mediated transmitter degradation. The synergism between fenfluramine and phentermine highlights the need to more completely understand the pharmacology and neurochemistry of appetite suppressants prior to use in combination pharmacotherapy for the treatment of obesity.
This study addresses the dynamic interactions among alpha-tocopherol, caffeic acid, and ascorbate in terms of a sequence of redox cycles aimed at accomplishing optimal synergistic antioxidant protection. Several experimental models were designed to examine these interactions: UV irradiation of alpha-tocopherol-containing sodium dodecyl sulfate micelles, one-electron oxidations catalyzed by the hypervalent state of myoglobin, ferrylmyoglobin, and autoxidation at appropriate pHs. These models were assessed by ultraviolet (UV) and electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR), entailing direct- and continuous-flow experiments, spectroscopy and by separation and identification of products by HPLC. The alpha-tocopheroxyl radical EPR signal generated by UV irradiation of alpha-tocopherol-containing micelles was suppressed by caffeic acid and ascorbate; in the former case, no other EPR signal was observed at pH 7.4, whereas in the latter case, the alpha-tocopheroxyl radical EPR signal was replaced by a doublet EPR spectrum corresponding to the ascorbyl radical (A*-). The potential interactions between caffeic acid and ascorbate were further analyzed by assessing, on the one hand, the ability of ascorbate to reduce the caffeic acid o-semiquinone (generated by oxidation of caffeic acid by ferrylmyoglobin) and, on the other hand, the ability of caffeic acid to reduce ascorbyl radical (generated by autoxidation or oxidation of ascorbate by ferrylmyoglobin). The data presented indicate that the reductive decay of ascorbyl radical (A*-) and caffeic acid o-semiquinone (Caf-O*) can be accomplished by caffeic acid (Caf-OH) and ascorbate (AH-), respectively, thus pointing to the reversibility of the reaction Caf-O* + AH- &lt;--&gt; Caf-OH + A*-. Continuous-flow EPR measurements of mixtures containing ferrylmyoglobin, alpha-tocopherol-containing micelles, caffeic acid, and ascorbate revealed that ascorbate is the ultimate electron donor in the sequence encompassing transfer of the radical character from the micellar phase to the phase. In independent experiments, the effects of caffeic acid and ascorbate on the oxidation of two low-density lipoprotein (LDL) populations, control and alpha-tocopherol-enriched, were studied and results indicated that alpha-tocopherol, caffeic acid, and ascorbate acted synergistically to afford optimal protection of LDL against oxidation. These results are analyzed for each individual antioxidant in terms of three domains: its localization and that of the antioxidant-derived radical, its reduction potential, and the predominant decay pathways for the antioxidant-derived radical, that exert kinetic control on the process.
In this paper acoustic evidence is presented for the presence of amplitude modulation in budgerigar (Melopsittacus undulatus) contact calls and learned English vocalizations. Previously, acoustic analyses of budgerigar vocalizations have consisted solely of visual inspection of spectrograms or power spectra (derived from Fourier transformation). Such analyses have led researchers to conclude that budgerigar vocalizations are primarily frequency-modulated, harmonic vocalizations. Although budgerigar calls have been shown to contain regions that are modulated in amplitude, the implications of this fact have been largely ignored. Amplitude modulation, the nonlinear interaction between two separate signals that results in the creation of new, heterodyne (sum and difference) frequencies, can produce a very complex Fourier spectrum that may resemble that produced by a harmonic vocalization. In this paper, the acoustic principles necessary for identifying amplitude modulation present in signals are outlined, and followed by data demonstrating that amplitude modulation is a prominent feature not only of natural budgerigar contact calls, but also of their learned English vocalizations. It is illustrated how analyzing a vocalization that contains amplitude modulation as if it were harmonic can result in misinterpretations of the acoustic and physical properties of the sound and sound source. The implications of amplitude modulation for studies of the ontogenetic, physical, and neural basis of budgerigar vocalizations are discussed, and a potential model for how the budgerigar syrinx may function to produce amplitude modulation is proposed.



Recent results have demonstrated that the spin trapping agent alpha-phenyl-N-tert-butyl nitrone (PBN) reduces infarct volume in rats subjected to 2 hours of middle cerebral artery occlusion, even when given 1 to 3 hours after the start of recirculation. In the current study, the authors assessed the effect of NXY-059, a novel nitrone that is more soluble than PBN. Loading doses were given of 0.30, 3.0, or 30 mg x kg(-1) followed by 0.30, 3.0, or 30 mg x kg(-1) x h(-1) for 24 or 48 hours. Dose-response studies showed that when treatment was begun 1 hour after recirculation, 0.30 mg x kg(-1) had a small and 30 mg x kg(-1) a marked effect on infarct volume. At equimolar doses (3.0 mg x kg(-1) for NXY-059 and 1.4 mg x kg(-1) for PBN), NXY-059 was more efficacious than PBN. Similar results were obtained when a recovery period of 7 days was allowed. The window of therapeutic opportunity for NXY-059 was 3 to 6 hours after the start of recirculation. Studies of the transfer constant of [14C]NXY-059 showed that, in contrast to PBN, this more soluble nitrone penetrates the blood-brain barrier less extensively. This fact, and the pronounced antiischemic effect of NXY-059, suggest that the delayed events leading to infarction may be influenced by reactions occurring at the blood-endothelial interface.
The mitochondrial permeability transition pore is an inducer of cell death. During the reperfusion phase after cerebral ischemia, calcium accumulates in mitochondria, and a burst of free radical formation occurs, conditions that favor the activation of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore. Here the authors demonstrate that a blocker of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore, the nonimmunosuppressive cyclosporin A analogue N-methyl-Val-4-cyclosporin A (10 mg/kg intraperitoneally), administered during reperfusion and at 24 hours of reperfusion, diminishes infarct size in a rat model of transient focal ischemia of 2 hours' duration. The mitochondrial permeability transition pore may be an important target for drugs against stroke.
Dopamine in the circulation occurs mainly as dopamine sulfate, the sources and physiological significance of which have been obscure. In this study, plasma concentrations of dopamine sulfate were measured after a meal, after fasting for 4 days, and during i.v. L-DOPA, nitroprusside, or trimethaphan infusion in volunteers; after dopamine infusion in patients with L-aromatic-amino-acid decarboxylase deficiency; in arterial and portal venous plasma of gastrointestinal surgery patients; and in patients with sympathetic neurocirculatory failure. Meal ingestion increased plasma dopamine sulfate by more than 50-fold; however, prolonged fasting decreased plasma dopamine sulfate only slightly. L-DOPA infusion produced much larger increments in dopamine sulfate than in dopamine; the other drugs were without effect. Patients with L-aromatic amino acid decarboxylase deficiency had decreased dopamine sulfate levels, and patients with sympathetic neurocirculatory failure had normal levels. Decarboxylase-deficient patients undergoing dopamine infusion had a dopamine sulfate/dopamine ratio about 25 times less than that at baseline in volunteers. Surgery patients had large arterial-portal venous increments in plasma concentrations of dopamine sulfate, so that mesenteric dopamine sulfate production accounted for most of urinary dopamine sulfate excretion, a finding consistent with the localization of the dopamine sulfoconjugating enzyme to gastrointestinal tissues. The results indicate that plasma dopamine sulfate derives mainly from sulfoconjugation of dopamine synthesized from L-DOPA in the gastrointestinal tract. Both dietary and endogenous determinants affect plasma dopamine sulfate. The findings suggest an enzymatic gut-blood barrier for detoxifying exogenous dopamine and delimiting autocrine/paracrine effects of endogenous dopamine generated in a &quot;third catecholamine system.&quot;
Whether or not nonconvulsive status epilepticus produces permanent brain damage is a source of controversy. Contributing to the controversy is the lack of clarity for classifying the clinical and electrographic phenomena that constitute nonconvulsive status epilepticus. Nonconvulsive status epilepticus commonly occurs in the context of an acute brain injury. For example, it commonly persists in generalized convulsive status epilepticus after convulsive activity has stopped, and it is not uncommonly associated with acute cerebral ischemia. Its clinical characteristics are ambiguous, subtle, and nonspecific making the diagnosis difficult. In the absence of EEG testing, it is likely to be missed or delayed. When acute brain injury and nonconvulsive status epilepticus occur concurrently, the severity of acute brain injury has traditionally been accepted as determining patient outcome. However, increasing evidence suggests that the two conditions are synergistically detrimental and increase brain injury. Guidelines remain to be established for the intensity and duration of anticonvulsant therapy in these patients. Evidence suggests that, in the absence of extreme and irreversible acute brain injury, early intensive intervention is necessary to improve the otherwise poor outcome of these patients.
We describe a 50-year-old patient who developed acute transient hemispheric cerebral swelling, documented by computed tomography, following a temporary constriction (20 min) of the middle cerebral artery branches due to clipping of an aneurysm. Reporting of this postischaemic phenomenon has been limited and its mechanism and treatment remain unclear. A possible underlying process could be a postischaemic reactive vasodilatation leading to congestive hyperaemia. Hyperventilation and mannitol seem to be an effective treatment of this essentially 'benign' cerebral swelling. Copyright 1999 Harcourt Publishers Ltd.
Antipsychotic polypharmacy is a surprisingly frequent occurrence that can be both justified and unjustifed, depending on how it is used. To the extent that this phenomenon has been unrecognized and is not being studied, it is a &quot;dirty little secret.&quot; To the extent that careful clinicians have uncovered a useful strategy for boosting the effectiveness of available antipsychotic monotherapies, it represents an opportunity to improve the outcomes of patients with psychotic illnesses.
A fundamental problem in form perception is how the visual system can link together spatially separated contour fragments to form the percept of a unitary shape. Illusory contours and amodal completion are two phenomena that demonstrate this linking process. In the present study we investigate these phenomena in the divided hemispheres of two callosotomy (&quot;split-brain&quot;) patients. The data suggest that dissociable neural mechanisms are responsible for the generation of illusory contours and amodal completion. Although both cerebral hemispheres appear to be equally capable of perceiving illusory contours, amodal completion is more readily utilized by the right hemisphere. These results suggest that illusory contours may be attributable to low-level visual processes common to both hemispheres, whereas amodal completion reflects a higher-level, lateralized process.
We have examined a behaviour pattern in wood ants which in some respects resembles and in other respects differs from the learning flights of bees and wasps. Wood ants returning to their nest from a newly discovered food source turn back and look at landmarks near to the feeder, but the feeder itself does not attract sustained fixations. The frequency of landmark inspections is highest when the ant is close to the feeder and falls as the ant moves away. In common with learning flights, inspections of landmarks on departure become less frequent as ants become familiar with their surroundings and reappear after a long interval without foraging. A principal difference between the learning flights of wasps and bees and this putative learning behaviour in ants is the emphasis that ants place on landmark fixation. Ants and honeybees move differently when searching for a goal within an array of transformed landmarks. We have explored, using computer simulation, whether this difference can be explained by the prominence ants give to the matching of landmarks viewed in the frontal visual field.
The release of red pigment concentrating hormone (RPCH) by single peptidergic neurons of the crayfish X organ/sinus gland system (XO-SG) was demonstrated using a novel in vitro bioassay in which XO neurons were co-cultured with tegumentary erythrophores. Local retraction of the pigmentary matrix within filipodia from erythrophores plated next to presumptive RPCH-containing neurons suggest spontaneous hormone release. Topical application of synthetic RPCH onto long filipodia also produced a local response. The time course of pigmentary matrix aggregation depended on the dose of synthetic RPCH. The effect of peptide on the cultured target cells was blocked by a polyclonal antiserum against RPCH. In co-culture conditions, the time course of pigmentary matrix aggregation was accelerated when presumptive RPCH-containing neurons were depolarized by intracellular current injection or by voltage-clamping to activate the Ca2+ current. The aggregation response evoked by these maneuvers was similar to that obtained with synthetic RPCH at a concentration of 1 fmol l-1. The immune serum was also used to identify a subset of 3-7 immunoreactive neurons localized in the external rim of the XO close to the medulla interna. Under culture conditions, this subset of neurons corresponded to the cells that induced the erythrophore response.
A characteristic feature of associative conditioning is that learning a predictive relationship between two events can block later learning about an added event. It is not yet well established whether blocking occurs in the spatial domain or the circumstances in which it does. We now report, using rats trained to search for hidden food near landmarks in an open field arena, that blocking can occur in spatial learning. The animals noticed the added landmark at the start of the blocking phase and explored it, but either failed to incorporate it into their spatial map or developed a representation in which only some landmarks actually control behavior. Additionally, performance at asymptote was controlled by the shape of the landmark array rather than the individual landmarks comprising it, indicating that blocking in the spatial domain may represent a failure to alter the encoded geometry of a learned array.
An eye-movement-based memory effect was demonstrated in 2 experiments showing different patterns of eye movements elicited to famous versus nonfamous faces, across a range of different processing tasks. The effects of prior exposure emerged early in viewing, within the first 5 fixations, and were observed on multiple measures of eye-movement behavior, reflecting a change in viewers' sampling behavior to the famous faces. Accordingly, the eye-movement-based memory effect can be seen as a change in the nature of processing of novel versus repeated items, with implications for other effects of prior exposure such as those seen in examples of repetition priming. The authors argue that the eye-movement-based memory effect is an obligatory consequence of previous exposure--a reprocessing effect caused by re-engaging the visual pattern analyzers and face processing machinery of the brain.
The pore of the catfish olfactory cyclic nucleotide-gated (CNG) channel contains four conserved glutamate residues, one from each subunit, that form a high-affinity binding site for extracellular divalent cations. Previous work showed that these residues form two independent and equivalent high-pKa (approximately 7.6) proton binding sites, giving rise to three pH-dependent conductance states, and it was suggested that the sites were formed by pairing of the glutamates into two independent carboxyl-carboxylates. To test further this physical picture, wild-type CNG subunits were coexpressed in Xenopus oocytes with subunits lacking the critical glutamate residue, and single channel currents through hybrid CNG channels containing one to three wild-type (WT) subunits were recorded. One of these hybrid channels had two pH-dependent conductance states whose occupancy was controlled by a single high-pKa protonation site. Expression of dimers of concatenated CNG channel subunits confirmed that this hybrid contained two WT and two mutant subunits, supporting the idea that a single protonation site is made from two glutamates (dimer expression also implied the subunit makeup of the other hybrid channels). Thus, the proton binding sites in the WT channel occur as a result of the pairing of two glutamate residues. This conclusion places these residues in close proximity to one another in the pore and implies that at any instant in time detailed fourfold symmetry is disrupted.
The mechanism of cardiovascular deconditioning, such as an orthostatic intolerance after space flight, has not been well clarified. Several studies to investigate that mechanism have focused mainly on hemodynamic changes including heart rate, arterial blood pressure, cardiac output, etc., but no studies have yielded a direct insight into changes in the sympathetic nervous system. Among ground-based experiments, parabolic flight is the only maneuver to expose human subjects to actual microgravity although it lasts for only a short duration of approx. 20 sec. Using microneurography, the present study aimed to analyze the involvement of the sympathetic nervous system in regulating the acute effects of fluid shift induced by parabolic flight during the transitional changes from 1 G to hypergravity, hypergravity to microgravity, and microgravity to hypergravity by direct measurement of sympathetic outflow to the muscles. Some parts of the study were published elsewhere. We also investigated how the sympathetic outflow to muscle is modified during microgravity with elimination of the breathing effect by comparing the cardiovascular parameters under controlled and uncontrolled respiration.
There is considerable evidence that stimulation of the vestibular system has effects on the activities of sympathetic preganglionic neurons in animals and of postganglionic nerves in animals and humans. In previous studies, we showed that the muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) from the human tibial nerve is enhanced after caloric vestibular stimulation (Cui et al. 1997), whereas the skin sympathetic nerve activity is suppressed during the nystagmus evoked by the caloric vestibular stimulation (Cui et al. 1999). These results suggest that the stimulation of the horizontal semicircular canal has effects on sympathetic outflows to muscle and skin in humans. However, much less is known about the MSNA response to dynamic stimulation of otolith organs in humans. To clarify this issue, we used a linear accelerator to stimulate the vestibular organs, especially otolith organs, and observed the MSNA and hemodynamic responses during movement.
The mechanism of autonomic regulation of the cardiovascular system develops postnatally like as various functions of the somatic system in the mammal including human. Normal development of the mechanisms is undoubtedly fundamental for maturation of individual. Therefore it is one of important problems to be urgently solved for the human life in the coming space era to understand the process of development of the regulation mechanism of the blood circulation in the growing animal in space. We have studied ontogenesis of the aortic baroreflex in the rabbit and rat to clarify the development process of the autonomic regulation of the cardiovascular system, and found the following facts. 1) Myelinated fibers of the aortic nerve which is the afferent of the reflex continue to increase in number, thickness of myelin and the diameter of axon after birth. 2) In the rabbit the increase of the number of myelinated fibers correlates lineally with the age related increase of the basal mean arterial pressure which is probably caused by in part increases of cardiac output accompanied with the growth of body. 3) Response of the integrated activity of the aortic nerve to increases in arterial pressure is smaller in the young rat and rabbit than in the mature animals. 4) Bradycardia response of the aortic baroreflex is less or slower in the young rabbit than in the mature animal. 5) The composition of the aortic nerve in both animals and bradycardia response in the rabbit become the mature type around eight weeks of age. On the basis of the background of these evidences we have investigated the effect of microgravity on the development of the aortic baroreflex system. The following is the outlines of our investigation.
Orthostatic intolerance (OI) is common after space flight and resembles the disabling idiopathic orthostatic intolerance commonly observed in otherwise healthy young individuals. OI can arise from reduced sympathetic nervous system activity and, paradoxically, also from increased sympathetic nervous system activity. Patients with early manifestations of pure autonomic failure demonstrate an etiology based upon reduced sympathetic nervous system activity. Patients with hyperadrenergia demonstrate an etiology based on increased sympathetic nervous activity. For many years, we have recognized that the microgravity environment induces adaptation in the cardiovascular system and its autonomic control mechanisms that lead to the presence of OI on return to gravity. Understanding the nature of OI in astronauts returning from space as well as in the relevant patient population on earth has been a priority of Vanderbilt's Center for Space Physiology and Medicine in recent years. A major purpose of the autonomic experiment in the Neurolab mission was to identify whether the OI experienced by astronauts on return to earth was best explained by a hypoadrenergic or hyperadrenergic state. To address this question, we analyzed sympathetic nervous system activity inflight by 1) measurement of plasma catecholamines; 2) assessment of peroneal microneurographic sympathetic nerve traffic; and 3) assessment of norepinephrine spillover and clearance during infusion of tritiated norepinephrine. These studies documented a slight (five bursts per minute) increase in muscle sympathetic nerve activity, a 200 pg/ml increase in plasma norepinephrine level, and a 350 ng/min increase in norepinephrine clearance. Plasma norepinephrine and norepinephrine spillover and clearance were also raised on recovery day. These data indicate that enhanced sympathetic activation, rather than reduced sympathetic activation, accompanies the orthostatic intolerance following microgravity.
Exposure to microgravity causes alterations in postural, locomotor and oculomotor functions. The vestibular abnormalities experienced by astronauts entail immediate reflex motor responses, including postural illusions, sensations of rotation, nystagmus, dizziness and vertigo, as well as space motion sickness. Adaptation to the microgravity environment usually occurs within one week, and a subsequent re-adaptation period of several months is often required upon return to Earth. Some astronauts experience recurrences of dizziness, nausea, and vomiting, as well as marked disturbances in postural equilibrium in the absence of vision during this readaptation period. The mechanisms underlying such adaptation processes remain unclear, although current evidence favors some type of sensory conflict. The purpose of the present study was to explore the structural basis for the reorganization in the central vestibular system that underlies the process of adaptation to altered gravitational environments. Hindbrain tissue was obtained from rats flown on the Neurolab shuttle mission (STS-90) that launched on April 17, 1998. Tissue for the present report was obtained from four adult Fisher 344 rats sacrificed on orbit during flight day 2 (FD2), 24 hr after launch. Equal numbers of vivarium control animals and cage-controls were sacrificed 48 and 96 hr, respectively, after the flight dissections. Following decapitation, each hindbrain was immersion-fixed for 45 min in 4% paraformaldehyde/0.1% glutaraldehyde in 0.1M phosphate buffer pH 7.3, and then transferred to a 4% paraformaldehyde solution in 0.1M phosphate buffer for 18 days at 4 degrees C. After this fixation, the cerebellum was dissected away from the ventral portion of the brainstem by severing the cerebellar peduncles. The entire cerebellum of each rat was cut by Vibratome into 100 micrometers thick sections in the parasagittal plane. These sections were collected serially and processed for electron microscopy by osmication, dehydration in a graded series of methanol solutions, infiltration with resin, and embedment in Epon-Araldite resin between plastic coverslips.
The seasonal adaptation of humans is accomplished metabolically by increased or decreased body heat production and by cardiovascular adjustments which result in decreased or increased heat loss from the body. The sympathetic nervous system plays an important role in thermoregulation and in blood pressure regulation. Muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) has an essential role in blood pressure regulation in humans. However, it has not yet been clarified how the MSNA changes during seasonal adaptation or how these changes may contribute to long-term thermoregulation in relation to blood pressure regulation. The purpose of the present study was to elucidate if seasonal variations exist in responses of the sympathetic nervous system in humans for gravity-dependent blood pressure regulation.
During the isometric exercise, the autonomic nervous system has a major role in the regulation of arterial blood pressure, blood flow, and perfusion to the active skeletal muscle in humans. An increase in cardiac sympathetic nerve activity and a withdrawal of vagal tone cause elevations of heart rate, cardiac contractility and cardiac output. An increase in vasomotor sympathetic nerve activity causes a vascular constriction to redirect the oxygen transport to the contracting muscle. It has been reported that the autonomic and cardiovascular systems are commonly affected by the exposure to the real (i.e. spaceflight) and simulated microgravitational environment( i.e. 6 degrees head-down bed rest (HDBR)). The alteration in the autonomic system includes a reduced vagal tone, and an attenuated carotid-cardiac baroreflex function. It may also include an altered control of peripheral vessels, a reduced sympathetic vasoconstriction, an attenuated release of norepinephrine from sympathetic nerve terminal, an impaired myogenic contractility, an up- or down regulation of alpha-adrenergic receptors, and an attenuated multiple vasodilatation. Therefore, there seems to be a possibility that HDBR alters the sympathetic and cardiovascular responses to isometric exercise in humans, however, this possibility has not been examined efficiently. We compared the vasomotor sympathetic and cardiovascular responses to sustained handgrip (HG) until fatigue followed by post-exercise muscle ischemia (PEMI) after 14 days of HDBR, to those before HDBR, in 16 healthy males.
Both lower body positive pressure (LBPP) and head-down tilt (HDT) can induce fluid shifts from the lower body to the thorax and result in a loading of cardiopulmonary baroreceptors. The aim of this study was to compare the effects of LBPP and HDT on cardiovascular responses in humans. To accomplish this, a graded LBPP test of 10, 20 and 30 mmHg, as well as a 6 degrees HDT was applied. It has been suggested that &lt;20 mmHg LBPP and &lt;30 degrees HDT load the cardiopulmonary baroreceptors by translocation of blood volume from the lower body to the thorax, while &gt;20 mmHg LBPP activates the intramuscular pressure-sensitive receptors.
Upon a return to the earth from spaceflight, astronauts often become presyncope during standing. This orthostatic intolerance is provoked by the exposure to the stimulation model of microgravitational environment in humans, 6 degrees head-down bed rest (HDBR). The mechanism for the orthostatic hypotension after microgravity remains unclear. It has been reported that a microgravity-induced loss of circulatory blood volume, a withdrawal of vagal tone, or a reduction of carotid-cardiac baroreflex function may relate to this phenomenon. A recent article has reported that astronauts who showed presyncopal events after spaceflight had subnormal increases in plasma norepinephrine under the standing tests, suggesting that a hypoadrenergic responsiveness to orthostatic stress may partly contribute to postflight orthostatic hypotension. However, it is unclear how and whether or not the sympathetic outflow to peripheral vessels and the release of norepinephrine from sympathetic nerve terminals were altered after microgravity. The vasomotor sympathetic outflow to the skeletal muscle can be directly recorded as muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) using a microneurographic technique. In addition, the rate of an increase in plasma norepinephrine per that in MSNA in response to applied orthostatic stress can partly indicate the norepinephrine release to sympathetic stimuli as a trial assessment. Therefore, we performed 60 degrees head-up tilt (HUT) tests before and after 14 days of HDBR, and examined the differences in the MSNA response and the indicated norepinephrine release during HUT tests between the subjects who did (defined as the fainters) and those who did not (defined as the nonfainters) become presyncopal in HUT tests after HDBR.
We describe a novel mechanism of signaling interaction through which tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) treatment augments interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma)-induced Stat1alpha DNA-binding complexes and transcriptional activation of a Stat-binding element. In TNF-alpha-treated cells, IFN-gamma-induced phosphorylation of Jak2 kinase is increased, Jak2 kinase activity is enhanced, and genetic studies indicate that TNF-alpha requires Jak2 kinase activity to enhance Stat1alpha tyrosine phosphorylation. Increased Jak2 and Stat1alpha phosphorylation are observed within minutes of coexposure to TNF-alpha/IFN-gamma, suggesting a direct signaling interaction. IFN-gamma receptor chain 1 (IFNGR-1) tyrosine phosphorylation is markedly enhanced in cells treated with TNF-alpha/IFN-gamma without alteration in receptor levels. Thus, there exists a direct signaling interaction between TNF-alpha and IFN-gamma, independent of cooperating enhancer elements, that may be relevant for cytokine action during immune-mediated host defense and inflammatory processes.
Nitric oxide (NO), an intercellular messenger in the brain, has been implicated in both neuronal plasticity and neurotoxicity. It has been suggested that NO can activate the DNA binding activity of nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB) family proteins in some cell types while having an inhibitory effect in others. In this study we have investigated the effect of acute NO in primary neuronal cultures of rat striatum using immunohistochemistry. Exposure of neurones to the NO-mimetic S-nitroso-n-acetylpenicillamine (SNAP; 200 microM) and to bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS; 10 microg/ml) for 30 min increased nuclear protein expression of the p50 subunit of NF-kappaB. SNAP also enhanced nuclear protein expression of the p65 subunit of NF-kappaB. Simultaneously, the cytoplasmic expression of phosphorylated inhibitory protein IkappaB alpha was dramatically increased by SNAP (200 microM), LPS (10 microg/ml), and kainate (50 microM) treatment. In the adult rat, stimulation with NOR-3 (2 mg/kg), a NO donor, increased NF-kappaB DNA binding activity in the striatum after 45 min. Because glucocorticoids inhibit NF-kappaB activity, primary cultures were pretreated with dexamethasone (50 microM) before SNAP, LPS, and kainate treatment, and the effect on the protein expression level of the individual subunits p50 and p65 present in the classical form of the transcription factor NF-kappaB was assessed. Dexamethasone pretreatment resulted in a marked reduction of p65 protein in striatal neurones after SNAP, LPS, and kainate, whereas p50 expression was reduced by dexamethasone pretreatment only after an LPS stimulus. This study indicates that NO-releasing compounds can directly induce nuclear NF-kappaB subunit expression in rat striatum and that glucocorticoids selectively inhibit p65 subunit expression following exposure to NO.
This study characterizes and examines the P2 receptor-mediated signal transduction pathway of a rat brain-derived type 2 astrocyte cell line, RBA-2. ATP induced Ca2+ influx and activated phospholipase D (PLD). The ATP-stimulated Ca2+ influx was inhibited by pretreating cells with P2 receptor antagonist, pyridoxalphosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulfonic acid (PPADS), in a concentration-dependent manner. The agonist 2'- and 3'-O-(4-benzoylbenzoyl)adenosine 5'-triphosphate (BzATP) stimulated the largest increases in intracellular Ca2+ concentrations ([Ca2+]i); ATP, 2-methylthioadenosine triphosphate tetrasodium, and ATPgammaS were much less effective, whereas UTP, ADP, alpha,beta-methylene-ATP, and beta,gamma-methylene-ATP were ineffective. Furthermore, removal of extracellular Mg2+ enhanced the ATP- and BzATP-stimulated increases in [Ca2+]i. BzATP stimulated PLD in a concentration- and time-dependent manner that could be abolished by removal of extracellular Ca2+ and was inhibited by suramin, PPADS, and oxidized ATP. In addition, PLD activities were activated by the Ca2+ mobilization agent, ionomycin, in an extracellular Ca2+ concentration-dependent manner. Both staurosporine and prolonged phorbol ester treatment inhibited BzATP-stimulated PLD activity. Taken together, these data indicate that activation of the P2X7 receptors induces Ca2+ influx and stimulates a Ca2+-dependent PLD in RBA-2 astrocytes. Furthermore, protein kinase C regulates this PLD.
The signaling events regulating the retrograde axonal transport of neurotrophins are poorly understood, but a role for phosphatidylinositol kinases has been proposed. In this study, we used phenylarsine oxide (PAO) to examine the participation of phosphatidylinositol 4-kinases in nerve growth factor (NGF) retrograde axonal transport within sympathetic and sensory neurons. The retrograde transport of 125I-labeled betaNGF was inhibited by PAO (0.5-2 nmol/eye), and this effect was diminished by dilution. Coinjection of 2,3-dimercaptopropanol with PAO reduced its ability to inhibit 125I-betaNGF retrograde transport. PAO (20 nM to 200 microM) also inhibited NGF-dependent survival of both sympathetic and sensory neuronal populations. F-actin staining in sympathetic and sensory neuronal growth cones was disrupted by PAO at 10 and 2 nM, respectively, and occurred within 5 min of exposure to the drug. The actin inhibitor latrunculin A also rapidly affected F-actin staining in vitro and reduced 125I-betaNGF retrograde axonal transport in vivo to the same extent as PAO. These results suggest that both phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase isoforms and the actin cytoskeleton play significant roles in the regulation of 125I-betaNGF retrograde axonal transport in vivo.
We hypothesize that discrete trigeminal structures have the components required for autocrine regulation as well as redundant neurotrophin support systems. We examined the expression of nerve growth factor (NGF) and the low affinity (p75) and high affinity (trkA, trkB, and trkC) neurotrophin receptors in the trigeminal system of adult rats. Four sites were examined; the trigeminal ganglion, mesencephalic nucleus, principal sensory nucleus (PSN), and trigeminal motor nucleus. NGF was expressed by more than 60% of neurons in each area studied. NGF immunolabeling may have resulted from exogenous protein incorporated from the microenvironment or from NGF synthesized by the neuron per se. To resolve this issue, in situ hybridization for NGF mRNA was performed. The mRNA was expressed by 2/3 to 7/8 of neurons in trigeminal structures. Moreover, double-labeling studies showed that virtually every ganglion cell that was NGF-immunoreactive also expressed the NGF transcript. Neurotrophin receptors (p75 and trk isoforms) were expressed by more than 60% of the neurons in each trigeminal structure. The only exception was the PSN, where the receptors were expressed by fewer than half of the neurons. Taken together, these data imply that NGF must be elaborated by neurons that co-express both p75 and trkA. Therefore, each trigeminal structure has the machinery for autocrine/paracrine regulation, as well as the capacity for retrograde and/or anterograde trophic support. Furthermore, the co-expression of the specific trk isoforms indicates that trigeminal neurons are sensitive to more than one neurotrophin.
Immature motoneurons are highly susceptible to degeneration following axon injury. The response of perineuronal glia to axon injury may significantly influence neuronal survival and axon regeneration. We have examined the central reactions to neonatal facial nerve transection with emphasis on the expression of complement component C3 (C3) and the multifunctional apolipoprotein J (ApoJ). Axotomy was performed on one-day-old rats. Animals were perfused from eight hours to two weeks after the lesion. The astroglial marker, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) was increased from one day and the microglial marker OX-42 from two days after injury. ApoJ immunoreactivity was increased in axotomized neuronal perikarya and astroglial cells from one day postaxotomy, but no C3 immunoreactive profiles were found at any postoperative survival time. Cell proliferation as judged by bromodeoxyuridine labeling and immunoreactivity for the cyclin Ki-67 antigen (antibody MIB5) occurred only at two days after injury. Double immunostaining revealed that the vast majority of proliferating cells were microglia, although occasional cells double labeled astrocytes were found as well. Our results indicate that the non-neuronal response in neonatal animals differ from that of adult ones as follows: 1) microglia transform rapidly into phagocytes in parallel with the degeneration of axotomized neurons, 2) despite the presence of neuronal degeneration, no expression of C3 was found, and the upregulation of the expression of the complement C3 receptor (CR3) is delayed, 3) ApoJ is strongly upregulated in perineuronal astrocytes as well as in the axotomized motoneurons. The marked upregulation of ApoJ in both instances suggests a general role of this protein in the neuronal response to axotomy.
The present study focuses on the long-term changes in the regulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) axis following two short-lasting episodes of intensive stress in the rat stress model of social defeat and the possible similarities with HPA functioning in human affective disorders. Male Wistar rats experienced social defeats on 2 consecutive days by an aggressive male conspecific. The long-term effect of these defeats on resting and ovine corticotropin-releasing factor (oCRF; intravenous (i.v.) 0. 5 microg/kg) induced levels of plasma ACTH and corticosterone (CORT) were measured 1 and 3 weeks later. In a second experiment the glucocorticoid feedback regulation of HPA function was tested in a combined dexamethasone (DEX)/CRF test (DEX; 25 microg/kg s.c., 90 min before oCRF injection, 0.5 microg/kg). The oCRF challenges were performed between 11.00 and 13.00 h (about three hours after start of the light phase). One week after defeat the ACTH response to CRF was significantly enhanced in defeated rats as compared to controls. Three weeks after defeat the ACTH response was back to control levels. The increased ACTH response 1 week after the stressor was not reflected in higher CORT levels. Neither were baseline ACTH and CORT levels affected by the prior stress exposure. DEX pretreatment inhibited pituitary adrenocortical activity, reflected both in reduced baseline and response values of ACTH and CORT. The ACTH response to CRF following DEX administration was significantly higher in defeated rats as compared to controls both at one and three weeks after defeat. A reduced DEX suppression of baseline secretion of ACTH appeared 3 weeks after defeat. The same tendency was apparent in response and baseline values of CORT. The differences in CORT between socially stressed and control treated rats, however, did not reach significance. The possible role of changes in glucocorticoid-(GR) and mineralocorticoid receptor (MR) binding in the altered regulation of HPA activity following defeat were studied in brain and pituitary of male Wistar rats 1 and 3 weeks after defeat. One week after defeat GR-binding decreased in hippocampus and hypothalamus. No changes were observed in GR-binding in the pituitary nor in MR-binding in any of the regions analysed. Three weeks after defeat GR-binding recovered in hippocampus and hypothalamus but at this time MR-binding in hippocampal tissue was seriously decreased. In a fourth experiment vasopressin (AVP) and CRF stores in the external zone of the median eminence (ZEME) were measured by quantitative immunocytochemistry one and three weeks after defeat and compared with controls. Social defeat failed to induce a change in the immunocytochemical stores of AVP or CRF. The present findings show that in rats short-lasting stressors like defeat induce long-lasting, temporal dynamic changes in the regulation of the HPA axis. Since these changes in time are reflected in GRs and MRs in different brain areas an altered corticosteroid receptor binding might play an important role in the affected HPA activity following defeat.
Molecular mechanisms of inflammatory leukocyte accumulation in the central nervous system (CNS) have been addressed during the past fifteen years, using small-animal model systems. Identification of the molecules responsible for leukocyte-endothelial adherence, and the elucidation of the roles of chemokines, has promoted further understanding. These insights have become clinically relevant, as attested by ongoing and contemplated multiple sclerosis (MS) treatment trials.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is an inflammatory disease of the central nervous system. The primary pathological target in multiple sclerosis is myelin. Most MS patients follow a relapsing-remitting (RR-MS) course for 10 to 15 years that transforms into a chronic or secondary progressive disease (SP-MS). This review summarizes studies from our laboratory that implicate activated microglia and astrocytes in early stages of myelin destruction in MS brain. In addition, we review evidence that indicates that axonal transection is a major pathological process in multiple sclerosis. Our data support the hypothesis that neurological disability in RR-MS is due to inflammatory demyelination while axonal loss plays a significant role in the irreversible neurological decline in SP-MS. Further elucidation of the pathological targets and pathological mechanisms of tissue destruction in MS brain will help identify new therapeutics.

p27/kip1 regulates the G1-S transition of the cell cycle by inhibiting cyclin D-CDK4, cyclin E-CDK2, and cyclin A-CDK2. Modulation of p27 cellular abundance occurs mainly at post-translational level by the ubiquitin-proteasome proteolysis. Although rearrangements and mutations of p27/kip1 are extremely rare events, p27 levels are reduced and associated with a poor prognosis in many human carcinomas. In astrocytic tumors, p27 decreases with advancing anaplasia and is almost absent in glioblastomas. To verify whether the degradation of p27 protein was responsible for its reduced levels in malignant gliomas, p27 degradation activity was tested in 22 tissue extracts that represented high, low, and absent p27 protein levels. p27 protein expression was detected by immunohistochemistry and immunoblot analysis and comparable results between the 2 methods were obtained. Low or undetectable p27 degradation activity was found in samples that displayed high levels of p27, i.e. all 4 normal brain biopsies, and 4 out of 6 grade II astrocytomas. Enhanced degradation activity resulted in malignant gliomas with low or absent p27 protein levels. The proteasome inhibitor LLnL abolished p27 degradation, demonstrating that it occurs in a proteasome-dependent manner. These data suggest that proteasome degradation of p27 may be instrumental in the deregulation of the cell cycle and to the malignant transformation of gliomas.
Most neuronal interactions within the olfactory bulb network are mediated by dendrodendritic synapses. Dendritic transmitter release potentially could affect the parent dendrite as well as local neuronal elements that have receptors for the released transmitter. Here we report that under conditions that facilitate N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor activity (reduced GABAA inhibition and extracellular Mg2+), a single action potential evoked by brief intracellular current pulses in mitral cells is followed by a prolonged depolarization, which is blocked by an NMDA receptor antagonist. This depolarization also is evoked by a presumed calcium spike in the presence of tetrodotoxin. A similar NMDA-receptor-dependent prolonged depolarization is elicited by stimulation of the lateral olfactory tract at current intensities subthreshold for antidromic activation of the recorded neuron. These observations suggest that glutamate released from the dendrites of mitral cells excites the same and neighboring mitral cell dendrites. Further evidence suggests that both the apical and lateral dendrites of mitral cells participate in this recurrent excitation. These dendrodendritic interactions may play a role in the prolonged, NMDA-receptor-dependent depolarization of mitral/tufted cells evoked by olfactory nerve stimulation.
Cannabinoids suppress nociceptive processing of acute stimuli, but little is known about their effects on processes that lead to hyperexcitability of nociceptive neurons following prolonged noxious stimulation. Wind-up, the increasingly strong response of spinal nociceptive neurons to repetitive noxious electrical stimuli, results from a fast-rising cumulative depolarization and increase in intracellular calcium concentration. These processes produce central sensitization, the increased excitability of spinal nociceptive neurons that contributes to the hyperalgesia and allodynia associated with chronic pain. Intravenous injection of the potent, synthetic cannabinoid agonist WIN 55, 212-2, but not the inactive enantiomer, WIN 55,212-3, dose-dependently decreased the wind-up of spinal wide dynamic range and nociceptive-specific neurons independent of acute responses to activation of low- and high-threshold primary afferents. This is the first direct evidence that cannabinoids inhibit the activity-dependent facilitation of spinal nociceptive responses.
Single-unit recordings were obtained from 107 horizontal semicircular canal-related central vestibular neurons in three alert squirrel monkeys during passive sinusoidal whole-body rotation (WBR) while the head was free to move in the yaw plane (2.3 Hz, 20 degrees /s). Most of the units were identified as secondary vestibular neurons by electrical stimulation of the ipsilateral vestibular nerve (61/80 tested). Both non-eye-movement (n = 52) and eye-movement-related (n = 55) units were studied. Unit responses recorded when the head was free to move were compared with responses recorded when the head was restrained from moving. WBR in the absence of a visual target evoked a compensatory vestibulocollic reflex (VCR) that effectively reduced the head velocity in space by an average of 33 +/- 14%. In 73 units, the compensatory head movements were sufficiently large to permit the effect of the VCR on vestibular signal processing to be assessed quantitatively. The VCR affected the rotational responses of different vestibular neurons in different ways. Approximately one-half of the units (34/73, 47%) had responses that decreased as head velocity decreased. However, the responses of many other units (24/73) showed little change. These cells had signals that were better correlated with trunk velocity than with head velocity. The remaining units had responses that were significantly larger (15/73, 21%) when the VCR produced a decrease in head velocity. Eye-movement-related units tended to have rotational responses that were correlated with head velocity. On the other hand, non-eye-movement units tended to have rotational responses that were better correlated with trunk velocity. We conclude that sensory vestibular signals are transformed from head-in-space coordinates to trunk-in-space coordinates on many secondary vestibular neurons in the vestibular nuclei by the addition of inputs related to head rotation on the trunk. This coordinate transformation is presumably important for controlling postural reflexes and constructing a central percept of body orientation and movement in space.
The firing behavior of 51 non-eye movement related central vestibular neurons that were sensitive to passive head rotation in the plane of the horizontal semicircular canal was studied in three squirrel monkeys whose heads were free to move in the horizontal plane. Unit sensitivity to active head movements during spontaneous gaze saccades was compared with sensitivity to passive head rotation. Most units (29/35 tested) were activated at monosynaptic latencies following electrical stimulation of the ipsilateral vestibular nerve. Nine were vestibulo-spinal units that were antidromically activated following electrical stimulation of the ventromedial funiculi of the spinal cord at C1. All of the units were less sensitive to active head movements than to passive whole body rotation. In the majority of cells (37/51, 73%), including all nine identified vestibulo-spinal units, the vestibular signals related to active head movements were canceled. The remaining units (n = 14, 27%) were sensitive to active head movements, but their responses were attenuated by 20-75%. Most units were nearly as sensitive to passive head-on-trunk rotation as they were to whole body rotation; this suggests that vestibular signals related to active head movements were cancelled primarily by subtraction of a head movement efference copy signal. The sensitivity of most units to passive whole body rotation was unchanged during gaze saccades. A fundamental feature of sensory processing is the ability to distinguish between self-generated and externally induced sensory events. Our observations suggest that the distinction is made at an early stage of processing in the vestibular system.
The role of swelling in hypoxic/ischemic neuronal injury is incompletely understood. We investigated the extent and time course of cell swelling during hypoxia, and recovery of cell volume during reoxygenation, in the CA1 region of rat hippocampal slices in vitro. Cell swelling was measured optically and compared with simultaneous measurements of the extracellular DC potential, extracellular [K+], and synaptic transmission in the presence and absence of hypoxic depolarization. Hypoxia-induced swelling consisted of rapid and/or slow components. Rapid swelling was observed frequently and always occurred simultaneously with hypoxic depolarization. Additionally, rapid swelling was followed by a prolonged phase of swelling that was approximately 15 times slower. Less frequently, slow swelling occurred independently, without either hypoxic depolarization or a preceding rapid swelling. For slices initially swelling rapidly, recovery of both cell volume and the slope of field excitatory postsynaptic potentials were best correlated with the duration of hypoxia (r = 0.77 and 0.87, respectively). This was also the case for slices initially swelling slowly (r = 0.70 and 0.58, respectively). In contrast, the degree of recovery of cell volume was the same at 30 or 60 min of reoxygenation, indicating that prolonging the duration of reoxygenation within these limits was ineffective in improving recovery. Spectral measurements indicated that the hypoxia-induced changes in light transmittance were related to changes in cell volume and not changes in the oxidation state of mitochondrial cytochromes. The persistent impairment of synaptic transmission in slices swelling slowly (i.e., without hypoxic depolarization) indicates that swelling may play a role in this injury and that hypoxic depolarization is not required. Additionally, the correlation between the degree of recovery of cell volume and the degree of recovery of synaptic transmission during reoxygenation supports a role for swelling in hypoxic neuronal injury.
The structural features of a synaptic connection between central neurons play an important role in determining the strength of the connection. In the present study, we have examined the relationship between the structural and functional properties of glycinergic synapses in the rat spinal cord. We have analyzed the structure of glycinergic receptor clusters on rat ventral horn interneurons using antibodies against the glycine receptor clustering protein, gephyrin. We have examined the properties of quantal glycinergic currents generated at these synapses using whole cell patch-clamp recordings of miniature postsynaptic inhibitory currents (mIPSCs) in rat spinal cord slices in vitro. Our immunolabeling results demonstrate that there is a considerable variability in the size of glycine receptor clusters within individual neurons. Furthermore there are large differences in the mean cluster size between neurons. These observations are paralleled closely by recordings of glycinergic mIPSCs. The mIPSC amplitude varies significantly within and between neurons. Results obtained using combined immunolabeling and electrophysiological recording on the same neurons show that cells with small glycine receptor clusters concurrently exhibit small mIPSCs. Our results suggest that the differences in the size of glycinergic receptor clusters may constitute an important factor contributing to the observed differences in mIPSC amplitude among spinal cord interneurons.
G-protein coupled metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) are important modulators of synaptic transmission in the mammalian CNS and have been implicated in various forms of neuroplasticity and nervous system disorders. Increasing evidence also suggests an involvement of mGluRs in nociception and pain behavior although the contribution of individual mGluR subtypes is not yet clear. Subtypes mGluR1 and mGluR5 are classified as group I mGluRs and share the ability to stimulate phosphoinositide hydrolysis and activate protein kinase C. The present study examined the role of group I mGluRs in nociceptive processing and capsaicin-induced central sensitization of primate spinothalamic tract (STT) cells in vivo. In 10 anesthetized male monkeys (Macaca fascicularis) extracellular recordings were made from 20 STT cells in the lumbar dorsal horn. Responses to brief (15 s) cutaneous stimuli of innocuous (BRUSH) and barely and substantially noxious (PRESS and PINCH, respectively) intensity were recorded before, during, and after the infusion of group I mGluR agonists and antagonists into the dorsal horn by microdialysis. Cumulative concentration-response relationships were obtained by applying different concentrations for at least 20 min each (at 5 microl/min). The actual concentrations reached in the tissue are 2-3 orders of magnitude lower than those in the microdialysis fibers (values in this paper refer to the latter). The group I antagonists were also applied at 10-25 min after capsaicin injection. S-DHPG, a group I agonist at both mGluR1 and mGluR5, potentiated the responses to innocuous and noxious stimuli (BRUSH &gt; PRESS &gt; PINCH) at low concentrations (10-100 microM; n = 5) but had inhibitory effects at higher concentrations (1-10 mM; n = 5). The mGluR5 agonist CHPG (1 microM-100 mM; n = 5) did not potentiate but inhibited all responses (10-100 mM; n = 5). AIDA (1 microM-100 mM), a mGluR1-selective antagonist, dose-dependently depressed the responses to PINCH and PRESS but not to BRUSH (n = 6). The group I (mGluR1 &gt; mGluR5) antagonist CPCCOEt (1 microM-100 mM) had similar effects (n = 6). Intradermal injections of capsaicin sensitized the STT cells to cutaneous mechanical stimuli. The enhancement of the responses by capsaicin resembled the potentiation by the group I mGluR agonist S-DHPG (BRUSH &gt; PRESS &gt; PINCH). CPCCOEt (1 mM) reversed the capsaicin-induced sensitization when given as posttreatment (n = 5). After washout of CPCCOEt, the sensitization resumed. Similarly, AIDA (1 mM; n = 7) reversed the capsaicin-induced sensitization and also blocked the potentiation by S-DHPG (n = 5). These data suggest that the mGluR1 subtype is activated endogenously during brief high-intensity cutaneous stimuli (PRESS, PINCH) and is critically involved in capsaicin-induced central sensitization.
Single-unit recording and transganglionic tracing techniques were used to assess the properties of, and inputs to, neurons within the rostral nucleus of the solitary tract (NST) after peripheral gustatory nerve injury and regeneration in adult hamsters (Mesocricetus auratus). Tastant-evoked responses were recorded from 43 neurons in animals in which the ipsilateral chorda tympani (CT) nerve was crushed 8 wk earlier (experimental animals) and from 46 neurons in unlesioned control animals. The 89 neurons were separated into three functional clusters named according to the best stimulus for neurons in the cluster: S, sucrose; N, sodium acetate; and H, HCl or KCl. Stimulus-evoked spike rates across all stimuli were 35.4 +/- 4.4% lower in the experimental hamsters. The largest difference in evoked spike rates occurred for neurons in the H cluster, in which the response to KCl also was delayed relative to normal responses. The response of S-cluster units to sucrose and saccharin was also lower in the experimental animals. The mean response rate and the time course of response of neurons in the N cluster did not differ between the two groups. For each cluster, the spontaneous rates and mean response profiles across eight stimuli were very similar in the experimental and control animals, and the breadth of tuning hardly differed. In both groups, Na+ responses in the N cluster were amiloride sensitive, and responses to the water rinse after stimulation with HCl were common in the S cluster. At 8-20 wk after nerve crush, biotinylated dextran tracing of the CT nerve revealed that the regenerated CT fibers did not sprout outside the normal terminal zone in the NST, but the density of the central terminal fibers was 36.9 +/- 6.35% lower than normal. After CT nerve crush and regeneration, the overall reduction in taste-evoked spike rates in NST neurons is likely a consequence of this change in terminal fibers; this in turn likely results from the known reduction in CT fibers regenerating past the crush site. In the face of this reduction, the normal taste-evoked spike rate in N-cluster neurons requires explanation. The observed recovery of normal specificity could be mediated by a restoration of specific connections by primary afferent fibers peripherally and centrally or by central compensatory mechanisms.
Whole cell patch-clamp recordings were obtained from projection neurons and interneurons of the rat basolateral amygdala (BLA) to understand local network interactions in morphologically identified neurons and their modulation by serotonin. Projection neurons and interneurons were characterized morphologically and electrophysiologically according to their intrinsic membrane properties and synaptic characteristics. Synaptic activity in projection neurons was dominated by spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) that were multiphasic, reached 181 +/- 38 pA in amplitude, lasted 296 +/- 27 mS, and were blocked by the GABAA receptor antagonist, bicuculline methiodide (30 microM). In interneurons, spontaneous synaptic activity was characterized by a burst-firing discharge patterns (200 +/- 40 Hz) that correlated with the occurrence of 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione-sensitive, high-amplitude (260 +/- 42 pA), long-duration (139 +/- 19 mS) inward excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs). The interevent interval of 831 +/- 344 mS for compound inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs), and 916 +/- 270 mS for EPSC bursts, suggested that spontaneous IPSP/Cs in projection neurons are driven by burst of action potentials in interneurons. Hence, BLA interneurons may regulate the excitability of projection neurons and thus determine the degree of synchrony within ensembles of BLA neurons. In interneurons 5-hydroxytryptamine oxalate (5-HT) evoked a direct, dose-dependent, membrane depolarization mediated by a 45 +/- 6.9 pA inward current, which had a reversal potential of -90 mV. The effect of 5-HT was mimicked by the 5-HT2 receptor agonist, alpha-methyl-5-hydroxytryptamine (alpha-methyl-5-HT), but not by the 5-HT1A receptor agonist, (+/-) 8-hydroxydipropylaminotetralin hydrobromide (8-OH-DPAT), or the 5-HT1B agonist, CGS 12066A. In projection neurons, 5-HT evoked an indirect membrane hyperpolarization ( approximately 2 mV) that was associated with a 75 +/- 42 pA outward current and had a reversal potential of -70 mV. The response was independent of 5-HT concentration, blocked by TTX, mimicked by alpha-methyl-5-HT but not by 8-OH-DPAT. In interneurons, 5-HT reduced the amplitude of the evoked EPSC and in the presence of TTX (0.6 microM) reduced the frequency of miniature EPSCs but not their quantal content. In projection neurons, 5-HT also caused a dose-dependent reduction in the amplitude of stimulus evoked EPSCs and IPSCs. These results suggest that acute serotonin release would directly activate GABAergic interneurons of the BLA, via an activation of 5-HT2 receptors, and increase the frequency of inhibitory synaptic events in projection neurons. Chronic serotonin release, or high levels of serotonin, would reduce the excitatory drive onto interneurons and may act as a feedback mechanism to prevent excess inhibition within the nucleus.
Cysteine string proteins (CSPs) are evolutionarily conserved proteins that are associated with synaptic vesicles and other regulated secretory organelles. To investigate the role of CSPs in vertebrate neuromuscular transmission, we introduced anti-CSP antibodies into the cell bodies of Xenopus spinal motor neurons that form synapses with embryonic muscle cells in culture. These antibodies produced a rapid (within 3-6 min), and in most cases complete, inhibition of stimulus-dependent neurotransmitter secretion. However, spontaneous neurotransmitter release was stable (both in frequency and amplitude) throughout the period of antibody exposure. Several control experiments validated the specificity of the anti-CSP antibody effects. First, the anti-CSP antibody actions were not mimicked either by antibodies against another synaptic vesicle protein SV2, or by nonspecific immunoglobins. Second, heat treatment of the anti-CSP antibodies eliminated their effect on evoked secretion. Third, immunoblot experiments showed that the anti-CSP and anti-SV2 antibodies were highly selective for their respective antigens in these Xenopus cultures. We conclude from these results that CSPs are vital constituents of the pathway for regulated neurotransmitter release in vertebrates. Moreover, the selective inhibition of evoked, but not spontaneous transmitter release by anti-CSP antibodies indicates that there is a fundamental difference in the machinery that mediates these secretory processes.
The AAN/ACNS report is misleadingly negative regarding the current status of quantitative EEG and tends to discourage its development and use with other related clinical problems. There have been many excellent studies showing that QEEG can be useful for the evaluation and understanding of mild traumatic brain injury, learning disabilities, attention deficit disorders, alcoholism, depression, and other types of substance abuse. In fact, Hughes and John recently provided in this Journal an extensive and detailed review of the use of QEEG in psychiatric disorders. The bias of the AAN/ACNS report is also evident when contrasted to the outstanding review of the clinical utility of QEEG by the American Medical EEG Association, which clearly articulates the opposite points in many cases and concludes that QEEG has reached maturity. At present, the most one can say is that there are legitimate scientific debate and differences of opinion concerning the utility of QEEG, as there are in many other areas of medicine. The AAN/ACNS article should not be considered the definitive opinion. Too many implications for health care are at stake. The debate and research may continue without withholding valuable help from the public. We hope that revised guidelines will be drafted in such a way as to encourage the development of quantitative EEG and brain mapping rather than discourage future research support and use of QEEG with patients. Furthermore, we strongly feel that this technology should be available to, and be explored and used by, nonphysicians who are properly trained and certified.
Consistent with the proposition that cytokines act as immunotransmitters between the immune system and the brain, systemic administration of the proinflammatory cytokine tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha; 1.0-4.0 microg) induced mild illness in CD-1 mice, increased plasma corticosterone concentrations, and altered central norepinephrine, dopamine, and serotonin turnover. The actions of TNF-alpha were subject to a time-dependent sensitization effect. After reexposure to a subeffective dose of the cytokine (1.0 microgram) 14-28 d after initial treatment, marked illness was evident (reduced consumption of a palatable substance and diminished activity and social exploration), coupled with an elevation of plasma corticosterone levels. In contrast, cytokine reexposure 1-7 d after initial treatment did not elicit illness, and at the 1 d interval the corticosterone response to the cytokine was reduced. The increase of norepinephrine release within the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, as reflected by elevated accumulation of 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol, was augmented at the longer reexposure intervals. In contrast, within the central amygdala and the prefrontal cortex TNF-alpha reexposure at the 1 d interval was associated with a pronounced sensitization-like effect, which was not apparent at longer intervals. Evidently, systemic TNF-alpha proactively influences the response to subsequent treatment; however, the nature of the effects (i.e., the behavioral, neuroendocrine, and central transmitter alterations) vary over time after initial cytokine treatment. It is suggested that the sensitization may have important repercussions with respect to cognitive effects of TNF-alpha and may also be relevant to analyses of the neuroprotective or neurodestructive actions of cytokines.
Previous studies indicate that a variety of pharmacological agents interfere with the prepulse inhibition of the acoustic startle (PPI) response including phencyclidine (PCP), 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin (8-OH-DPAT), amphetamine, and apomorphine. Strain differences have been observed in the ability of apomorphine to disrupt PPI, although the degree to which these strain differences occur after administration of nondopaminergic drugs or the degree to which differences can be observed in other models of dopamine (DA) receptor activation has not been elucidated. The present study tested the effects of apomorphine, amphetamine, 8-OH-DPAT, and PCP on PPI in the Sprague Dawley and Wistar rat strains. Because apomorphine disrupts PPI via activation of DA receptors in the nucleus accumbens, apomorphine-induced hyperlocomotion, also a behavioral model of nucleus accumbens DA receptor activation, was measured in both rat strains. Administration of PCP or 8-OH-DPAT attenuated PPI in both strains, whereas apomorphine and amphetamine only attenuated PPI in Wistar rats. The ability of apomorphine to increase motor activity in the absence of a startle-eliciting stimulus was similar in the two strains, as was apomorphine-induced hyperlocomotion. A time course analysis of the effects of apomorphine on startle response in Sprague Dawley rats found that changes in the magnitude of PPI followed changes in basic startle amplitude. Similarly, no apomorphine-induced attenuation of PPI was observed in Sprague Dawley rats after 6-OHDA-induced DA receptor supersensitivity in the nucleus accumbens. These data suggest a dissociation between the effects of DA receptor agonists in PPI and other behavioral models of DA receptor activation.
Recent imaging and clinical studies have challenged the concept that the functional role of the cerebellum is exclusively in the motor domain. We present evidence of slowed covert orienting of visuospatial attention in patients with developmental cerebellar abnormality (patients with autism, a disorder in which at least 90% of all postmortem cases reported to date have Purkinje neuron loss), and in patients with cerebellar damage acquired from tumor or stroke. In spatial cuing tasks, normal control subjects across a wide age range were able to orient attention within 100 msec of an attention-directing cue. Patients with cerebellar damage showed little evidence of having oriented attention after 100 msec but did show the effects of attention orienting after 800-1200 msec. These effects were demonstrated in a task in which results were independent of the motor response. In this task, smaller cerebellar vermal lobules VI-VII (from magnetic resonance imaging) were associated with greater attention-orienting deficits. Although eye movements may also be disrupted in patients with cerebellar damage, abnormal gaze shifting cannot explain the timing and nature of the attention-orienting deficits reported here. These data may be consistent with evidence from animal models that suggest damage to the cerebellum disrupts both the spatial encoding of a location for an attentional shift and the subsequent gaze shift. These data are also consistent with a model of cerebellar function in which the cerebellum supports a broad spectrum of brain systems involved in both nonmotor and motor function.
We examined neural activity in prefrontal (PF) cortex of monkeys performing a delayed paired associate task. Monkeys were cued with a sample object. Then, after a delay, a test object was presented. If the test object was the object associated with the sample during training (i.e., its target), they had to release a lever. Monkeys could bridge the delay by remembering the sample (a sensory-related code) and/or thinking ahead to the expected target (a prospective code). Examination of the monkeys' behavior suggested that they were relying on a prospective code. During and shortly after sample presentation, neural activity in the lateral PF cortex primarily reflected the sample. Toward the end of the delay, however, PF activity began to reflect the anticipated target, which indicated a prospective code. These results provide further confirmation that PF cortex does not simply buffer incoming visual inputs, but instead selectively processes information relevant to current behavioral demands, even when this information must be recalled from long-term memory.
Distinct motor patterns are selected from a multifunctional neuronal network by activation of different modulatory projection neurons. Subsets of these projection neurons can contain the same neuromodulator(s), yet little is known about the relative influence of such neurons on network activity. We have addressed this issue in the stomatogastric nervous system of the crab Cancer borealis. Within this system, there is a neuronal network in the stomatogastric ganglion (STG) that produces many versions of the pyloric and gastric mill rhythms. These different rhythms result from activation of different projection neurons that innervate the STG from neighboring ganglia and modulate STG network activity. Three pairs of these projection neurons contain the neuropeptide proctolin. These include the previously identified modulatory proctolin neuron and modulatory commissural neuron 1 (MCN1) and the newly identified modulatory commissural neuron 7 (MCN7). We document here that each of these neurons contains a unique complement of cotransmitters and that each of these neurons elicits a distinct version of the pyloric motor pattern. Moreover, only one of them (MCN1) also elicits a gastric mill rhythm. The MCN7-elicited pyloric rhythm includes a pivotal switch by one STG network neuron from playing a minor to a major role in motor pattern generation. Therefore, modulatory neurons that share a peptide transmitter can elicit distinct motor patterns from a common target network.
In binocular rivalry, the observer views two incongruent images, one through each eye, but is conscious of only one image at a time. The image that is perceptually dominant alternates every few seconds. We used this phenomenon to investigate neural correlates of conscious perception. We presented a red vertical grating to one eye and a blue horizontal grating to the other eye, with each grating continuously flickering at a distinct frequency (the frequency tag for that stimulus). Steady-state magnetic fields were recorded with a 148 sensor whole-head magnetometer while the subjects reported which grating was perceived. The power of the steady-state magnetic field at the frequency associated with a grating typically increased at multiple sensors when the grating was perceived. Changes in power related to perceptual dominance, presumably reflecting local neural synchronization, reached statistical significance at several sensors, including some positioned over occipital, temporal, and frontal cortices. To identify changes in synchronization between distinct brain areas that were related to perceptual dominance, we analyzed coherence between pairs of widely separated sensors. The results showed that when the stimulus was perceived there was a marked increase in both interhemispheric and intrahemispheric coherence at the stimulus frequency. This study demonstrates a direct correlation between the conscious perception of a visual stimulus and the synchronous activity of large populations of neocortical neurons as reflected by stimulus-evoked steady-state neuromagnetic fields.
To explore the role of Engrailed proteins in development of the cerebellum, Engrailed-2 (En-2) was ectopically expressed in cerebellar Purkinje cells from the late embryonic stage into adulthood. The fundamental organization of Purkinje cell sagittal zones as revealed by the &quot;early onset&quot; markers L7-beta-gal and cadherin-8 was found to be virtually identical to that in wild type. In contrast, &quot;late onset&quot; sagittal banding patterns revealed by Purkinje cell markers zebrin I, zebrin II, and 9-O-acetyl GD3 Ganglioside (P-Path), and the granule cell marker NADPH-diaphorase, were disrupted. In general, although some evidence of banding was still detectable, boundaries defined by the latter markers were poorly defined, and the patterns overall took on a diffuse appearance. In parallel with the changes in late onset markers, anterograde tracing of spinocerebellar axons revealed a general diffusion of the mossy fiber projection pattern in lobule VIII and the anterior lobe. These observations suggest that at least two separate mediolateral boundary systems exist in the cerebellum, and these are differentially affected by ectopic En-2 expression. Alternatively, one boundary system exists that remains primarily intact in the mutant, but recognition of this system by a set of late developmental events is perturbed.
The N-type Ca channel alpha1B subunit is localized to synapses throughout the nervous system and couples excitation to release of neurotransmitters. In a previous study, two functionally distinct variants of the alpha1B subunit were identified, rnalpha1B-b and rnalpha1B-d, that differ at two loci;four amino acids [SerPheMetGly (SFMG)] in IIIS3-S4 and two amino acids [GluThr (ET)] in IVS3-S4. These variants are reciprocally expressed in rat brain and sympathetic ganglia (). We now show that the slower activation kinetics of rnalpha1B-b (DeltaSFMG/+ET) compared with rnalpha1B-d (+SFMG/DeltaET) channels are fully accounted for by the insertion of ET in IVS3-S4 and not by the lack of SFMG in IIIS3-S4. We also show that the inactivation kinetics of these two variants are indistinguishable. Through genomic analysis we identify a six-base cassette exon that encodes the ET site and with ribonuclease protection assays demonstrate that the expression of this mini-exon is essentially restricted to alpha1B RNAs of peripheral neurons. We also show evidence for regulated alternative splicing of a six-base exon encoding NP in the IVS3-S4 linker of the closely related alpha1A gene and establish that residues NP can functionally substitute for ET in domain IVS3-S4 of alpha1B. The selective expression of functionally distinct Ca channel splice variants of alpha1B and alpha1A subunits in different regions of the nervous system adds a new dimension of diversity to voltage-dependent Ca signaling in neurons that may be important for optimizing action potential-dependent transmitter release at different synapses.
AMPA receptors and glutamate transporters expressed by cerebellar Bergmann glial cells are activated by neurotransmitter released from climbing fibers (). Based on anatomical evidence, this is most likely the result of glutamate diffusing out of the climbing fiber-Purkinje cell synaptic clefts (). We used the change in the EC50 of the Bergmann glia AMPA receptors produced by cyclothiazide (CTZ) to estimate the concentration of glutamate reached at the glial membrane. The decrease of the EC50 gives rise to a concentration-dependent potentiation of the AMPA receptor-mediated responses (). By comparing the increase in amplitude of the AMPA receptor response in the Bergmann glia (840 +/- 240%; n = 8) with the shift in the glutamate dose-response curve measured in excised patches (EC50, 1810 microM in control vs 304 microM in CTZ), we estimate that the extrasynaptic transmitter concentration reaches 160-190 microM. This contrasts with the concentration in the synaptic cleft, thought to rapidly rise above 1 mM, but is still high enough to activate glutamate receptors. These results indicate that the sphere of influence of synaptically released glutamate can extend beyond the synaptic cleft.
Neuromodulators, including transmitters and peptides, modify neuronal excitability. In most neurons, multiple neuromodulator receptors are present on a single cell. Previous work has demonstrated either occlusive or additive effects when two neuromodulators that target the same ion channel are applied together. In this study, we characterize the modulation of Ca2+ and K+ channels in embryonic chick ciliary ganglion neurons by somatostatin (Som) and opioids, including the effects of these neuromodulators when applied in combination. We report a modulation of calcium current by kappa- or mu-opioids that can prevent Som effects when applied before Som and can replace Som effects when applied after Som. We term these effects demodulation because they do not have the characteristics of simple occlusion but rather represent a dominant effect of opioid-mediated modulation of calcium channels over Som-mediated modulation. These opioid effects persist in the presence of kinase and phosphatase inhibitors, as well as after alteration of the intracellular Ca2+ concentration. Furthermore, they are present in both whole-cell and perforated-patch recording configurations. These effects of opioids on Som-mediated modulation do not seem to be mediated by a general uncoupling of Som receptors from G-protein-coupled signaling systems because K+ current modulation by Som can persist in the presence of opioids. Demodulation by opioids was also observed in dorsal root ganglion neurons on the modulation of calcium current by GABA and norepinephrine (NE). In both preparations, this demodulatory interaction occurred between voltage-independent (opioids) and voltage-dependent (Som, GABA, and NE) modulatory pathways.
Evidence is accumulating that voltage-gated channels are distributed nonuniformly throughout neurons and that this nonuniformity underlies regional differences in excitability within the single neuron. Previous reports have shown that Ca2+, Na+, A-type K+, and hyperpolarization-activated, mixed cation conductances have varying distributions in hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons, with significantly different densities in the apical dendrites compared with the soma. Another important channel mediates the large-conductance Ca2+-activated K+ current (IC), which is responsible in part for repolarization of the action potential (AP) and generation of the afterhyperpolarization that follows the AP recorded at the soma. We have investigated whether this current is activated by APs retrogradely propagating in the dendrites of hippocampal pyramidal neurons using whole-cell dendritic patch-clamp recording techniques. We found no IC activation by back-propagating APs in distal dendritic recordings. Dendritic APs activated IC only in the proximal dendrites, and this activation decayed within the first 100-150 micrometer of distance from the soma. The decay of IC in the proximal dendrites occurred despite AP amplitude, plus presumably AP-induced Ca2+ influx, that was comparable with that at the soma. Thus we conclude that IC activation by action potentials is nonuniform in the hippocampal pyramidal neuron, which may represent a further example of regional differences in neuronal excitability that are determined by the nonuniform distribution of voltage-gated channels in dendrites.
This study investigates the neurone structure-specific differences of sensitivities of fluorescent tracers. The tracers were used for retrograde labelling of contralateral projections in the two visual pathways of the chick. Rhodamine B Isothiocyanate (RITC), Fluorogold (FG) and True blue (TB) were injected into either the visual Wulst (thalamofugal pathway) or the nucleus rotundus (Rt; tectofugal pathway) and the retrogradely labelled neurones in the nucleus geniculatus lateralis pars dorsalis (GLd) or the optic tectum, respectively, were counted. Differential retrograde labelling in the two pathways was observed. In the thalamofugal pathway, both the contralateral and ipsilateral GLd cells were labelled by all three tracers (RITC, FG and TB). However, in the tectofugal pathway, whereas RITC labelled both the ipsilateral and contralateral tectal neurones, FG or TB labelled effectively only the ipsilateral tectal neurones. It was clear that FG and TB were taken up by the nerve endings and transported part-way along the axon but failed to be transported to the cell bodies of the contralateral tectal neurones. In addition, red beads and green beads were also injected into Rt and the differential labelling was also observed. Red beads labelled both ipsilateral and contralateral tectal neurones but green beads labelled only the ipsilateral tectal neurones. Since the contralateral tectal projections consist of divergent axon collaterals, the present study suggests that various retrograde tracers are not transported in these axon collaterals to label cell bodies. The contralaterally projecting neurones in the thalamofugal pathway are not axon collaterals and they were labelled by all of the tracers used.
Neurotrophin 4/5 (NT4/5) is a member of the neurotrophin family known to exert survival and other effects on a variety of neurons including those within the motor, sensory and central populations. Although mRNA(NT4/5) has been found in various effector tissues of the rat and human, the concentration of NT4/5 protein in tissues has not been reported previously due to lack of suitable methodology. We present here a quantitative two-site enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for the estimation of NT4/5 in pre- and postnatal rat tissues. The assay was performed using a combination of polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies to recombinant human NT4/5. Tissue samples were extracted at neutral pH. Results show that the assay is highly specific for NT4/5 with a sensitivity of 1 pg/ml, and reproducible with intra- and inter-assay variation coefficients of 3.0 and 6.3%, respectively. NT4/5 was found in most embryonic tissues examined at gestation day 17 and 21, but was rarely detectable in postnatal tissues, with the notable exception of the testis. The availability of an immunoassay for the estimation of NT4/5 protein in rat tissues should contribute to the understanding of the physiology of this little understood neurotrophic factor.
Near-field optics (NFO) overcomes the diffraction limit of light microscopes and permits visualization of single molecules. However, despite numerous applications of NFO in the physical sciences, there is still a paucity of applications in the neurosciences. In this work, the authors have developed NFO probes to image intracellular dynamic processes in living cells. This is the first time a NFO probe has been inserted inside a living cell to deliver light to a spatially controlled region for optical measurements and to record cellular responses to external stimuli. Two different optical detection systems (CCD camera and avalanche photon detection) were developed to monitor cellular responses to drug administration in two different cell types. NG108-15 neuroblastoma cells and vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMC) were penetrated with NFO probes. Intracellular Ca2+ increases post drug stimulation were detected by NFO probes. The cells were loaded with either fura-2/AM or fluo-3/AM calcium dyes. VSMC were stimulated with angiotensin II, resulting in a precise area of intracellular Ca2+ increase. Different response profiles of Ca2+ increases were observed after ionomycin and bradykinin administration in NG108-15 cells. Responsive heterogeneities due to ionomycin among different cells of the same type were recorded. The results show that NFO probes make possible real-time visualization of intracellular events. With refinement, intracellular NFO probes offer the potential of probing cell function with fast temporal and excellent spatial resolutions.
The dopaminergic neurons of the ventral mesencephalon, though physically mixed with non-dopamine neurons, are organized into dorsal and ventral 'tiers' with regard to their ontogeny, efferent projections and their relative position in the various mesencephalic sub-nuclei. We have employed buoyant density fractionation to separate the dopaminergic neurons of the two compartments and compare their subsequent phenotype development with respect to their expression of the gene encoding tyrosine hydroxylase, the rate-limiting enzyme in the catecholamine biosynthetic pathway. Using immunocytochemistry, separately and combined with in situ hybridization, we demonstrate here that sedimentation of cell suspensions from E19 rat ventral mesencephalon on 5-step Percoll gradients produces cell fractions enriched in ventral and dorsal tier DA neurons, respectively.
In this report, the authors describe a case in which the patient began to experience a supernumerary phantom arm after she received motor cortex stimulation for central pain. The patient had a history of right thalamocapsular stroke. It is speculated that the motor cortex activation triggered a response in the patient's parietal lobe, precipitating perception of the phantom limb. To the authors' knowledge this is the first reported case of its kind.
A retrospective study was carried out to evaluate the effect of hypertonic (3%) saline chloride/acetate on various hemodynamic parameters in mildly hyponatremic patients with symptomatic vasospasm following aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). We identified 29 hyponatremic (serum sodium &lt; 135 mEq/L) patients who received hypertonic (3%) sodium chloride/acetate as a continuous infusion. Administration of hypertonic (3%) sodium chloride/acetate resulted in higher central venous pressures and positive fluid balance, with a concomitant increase in serum sodium and chloride concentrations without metabolic acidosis. There were no changes in mean cerebral blood flow velocities after infusion of hypertonic (3%) sodium chloride/acetate. We found no reports of congestive heart failure, pulmonary edema, metabolic acidosis, coagulopathy, intracranial hemorrhages, or central pontine myelinolysis in any of these patients. We conclude that hypertonic (3%) sodium chloride/acetate can be administered to patients with mild hyponatremia in the setting of symptomatic vasospasm following SAH without untoward effects. Sample size and limitations of a retrospective analysis preclude conclusions about safety and efficacy of hypertonic (3%) sodium chloride/acetate administration in this patient population. However, our results support justification for a prospective, randomized, double-blind trial of hypertonic (3%) sodium chloride/acetate versus normal saline in patients with symptomatic vasospasm following SAH.

In this study, we investigated the effectiveness of gabapentin (Neurontin), administered spinally with a microdialysis fiber, in reducing nociceptive behavioral responses induced by a knee joint inflammation model. This model is produced by injection of the knee joint with kaolin and carrageenan in rats. The resultant knee joint inflammation produces a secondary hyperalgesia to radiant heat applied to the hindpaw. Both pretreatment and post-treatment protocols were examined. Spinal administration of gabapentin (10 mg/ml) infused 1.5 h before induction of knee joint inflammation, although having no effect on the baseline, prevented the development of heat hyperalgesia. Gabapentin also prevented the development of other pain-related behaviors scored subjectively. Gabapentin had no effect, however, on the joint circumference increase typical in this model. In animals with fully developed knee joint inflammation, gabapentin produced a reversal of heat hyperalgesia. The paw withdrawal latency responses and subjective pain scores were no longer significantly different from baseline, but joint circumference increases remained. These data suggest that gabapentin is an effective antinociceptive agent when administered either before or after induction of knee joint inflammation acting through a central neurogenic mechanism.
Cell lines expressing the human metabotropic glutamate receptor subtype 5a (hmGluR5a) and hmGluR1b were used as targets in an automated high-throughput screening (HTS) system that measures changes in intracellular Ca2+ ([Ca2+]i) using fluorescence detection. This functional screen was used to identify the mGluR5-selective antagonist, SIB-1757 [6-methyl-2-(phenylazo)-3-pyridinol], which inhibited the glutamate-induced [Ca2+]i responses at hmGluR5 with an IC50 of 0.37 microM compared with an IC50 of &gt;100 microM at hmGluR1. Schild analysis demonstrated a noncompetitive mechanism of inhibition. Pharmacophore mapping was used to identify an additional compound, SIB-1893 [(E)-2-methyl-6-(2-phenylethenyl)pyridine], which was also shown to block glutamate-induced increases in [Ca2+]i at hmGluR5 with an IC50 of 0.29 microM compared with an IC50 of &gt;100 microM at hmGluR1. SIB-1757 and SIB-1893 showed little or no activity when tested for agonist and antagonist activity at the other recombinant human mGluR subtypes, alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid, kainate, and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. In rat neonatal brain slices, SIB-1757 and SIB-1893 inhibited (S)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG)-evoked inositol phosphate accumulation in hippocampus and striatum by 60% to 80%, with a potency similar to that observed on recombinant mGluR5. However, in the cerebellum, a brain region with low mGluR5 expression, SIB-1757 failed to inhibit DHPG-evoked inositol phosphate accumulation. In cultured rat cortical neurons, SIB-1757 and SIB-1893 largely inhibited DHPG-evoked [Ca2+]i signals, revealing a population of neurons that were less sensitive to SIB-1757 and SIB-1893. This is the first description of highly selective, noncompetitive mGluR5 antagonists. These compounds will be useful tools in evaluating the role of mGluR5 in normal physiology and in animal models of disease.
We examined the effects of modulating group II metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) on traumatic neuronal injury using both in vitro and in vivo models. Treatment with various selective group II mGluR agonists significantly decreased lactate dehydrogenase release, a marker of cell death, after traumatic injury to rat neuronal-glial cultures; injury-induced increases in cyclic AMP and glutamate levels were also significantly reduced by a group II agonist. The neuroprotective effects of group II agonists were markedly attenuated by coadministration of a group II antagonist or a membrane-permeable cyclic AMP analog and were additive to those provided by an N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist or a selective group I mGluR antagonist. Administration of a group II mGluR agonist 30 min after lateral fluid percussion-induced brain injury in rats significantly improved subsequent behavioral recovery as compared with vehicle-treated controls. Together these studies indicate that group II mGluR agonists protect against traumatic neuronal injury by attenuating glutamate release and cAMP levels and suggest a potential role for these agents in the treatment of clinical neurotrauma.
1. Intracellular and extracellular recordings from area CA3 of rat and mouse hippocampal slices revealed two distinct modes of synchronous network activity in response to continuous application of muscarinic acetylcholine receptor (mAChR) agonists. At low concentrations (e.g. 0.1-1 microM oxotremorine-M), 'burst-mode' activity comprised regular individual AMPA receptor-mediated depolarizing events, each generating several action potentials. At higher concentrations (5-50 microM), 'theta-mode' prevailed in which ordered clusters of depolarizing theta-frequency oscillations occurred. 2. Whilst theta-mode activity was abolished by the mAChR antagonist atropine (5 microM), the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) antagonists tubocurarine (100 microM), mecamylamine (100-500 microM) and dihydro-beta-erythroidine (250 microM) converted this mode of activity to burst-mode. 3. Likewise, disruption of synaptically available ACh using inhibitors of choline uptake (hemicholinium-3; 20-50 microM) or vesicular ACh transport (vesamicol; 50 microM) converted theta-mode into burst-mode activity. 4. Hippocampal slices prepared 2-3 weeks after transection of the primary cholinergic efferent pathway from the medial septum exhibited reduced vesicular ACh transporter immunoreactivity but still supported nAChR-dependent theta-mode activity suggesting that ACh released from this pathway was not critical for the activation of these receptors. 5. In summary, ACh-mediated activation of nAChRs tailors the pattern of network activity into theta-frequency depolarizing episodes as opposed to synchronized individual events at much lower frequencies.
1. The whole-cell patch clamp technique was used to study the role of muscarinic receptors in regulating the frequency of giant depolarizing potentials (GDPs) in CA3 hippocampal neurones in slices from postnatal (P) P1-P8 rats. 2. Atropine (1 microM) reduced the frequency of GDPs by 64.2 +/- 2.9 %. The acetylcholinesterase inhibitor edrophonium (20 microM) increased the frequency of GDPs in a developmentally regulated way. This effect was antagonized by the M1 muscarinic receptor antagonist pirenzepine. 3. In the presence of edrophonium, tetanic stimulation of cholinergic fibres induced either an enhancement of GDP frequency (179 +/- 79 %) or a membrane depolarization (27 +/- 16 mV) associated with an increase in synaptic noise. These effects were prevented by atropine. 4. Application of carbachol (3 microM) produced an increase in GDP frequency that at P5-P6 was associated with a membrane depolarization and an increase in synaptic noise. These effects were prevented by atropine, pirenzepine (3 microM) and bicuculline (10 microM). 5. In the presence of pirenzepine, carbachol reduced GDP frequency by 50 +/- 4 %. Conversely, in the presence of methoctramine (3 microM), carbachol enhanced GDP frequency by 117 +/- 4 %. 6. It is concluded that endogenous acetylcholine, through the activation of M1 receptors, enhances the release of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), in a developmentally regulated way. On the other hand, carbachol exerts both an up- and downregulation of GABA release through the activation of M1 and M2 receptors, respectively.
1. Cell-attached single-channel recordings of NMDA channels were carried out in human dentate gyrus granule cells acutely dissociated from slices prepared from hippocampi surgically removed for the treatment of temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). The channels were activated by L-aspartate (250-500 nM) in the presence of saturating glycine (8 microM). 2. The main conductance was 51 +/- 3 pS. In ten of thirty granule cells, clear subconductance states were observed with a mean conductance of 42 +/- 3 pS, representing 8 +/- 2 % of the total openings. 3. The mean open times varied from cell to cell, possibly owing to differences in the epileptogenicity of the tissue of origin. The mean open time was 2.70 +/- 0.95 ms (range, 1.24-4.78 ms). In 87 % of the cells, three exponential components were required to fit the apparent open time distributions. In the remaining neurons, as in control rat granule cells, two exponentials were sufficient. Shut time distributions were fitted by five exponential components. 4. The average numbers of openings in bursts (1.74 +/- 0.09) and clusters (3.06 +/- 0.26) were similar to values obtained in rodents. The mean burst (6.66 +/- 0.9 ms), cluster (20.1 +/- 3.3 ms) and supercluster lengths (116.7 +/- 17.5 ms) were longer than those in control rat granule cells, but approached the values previously reported for TLE (kindled) rats. 5. As in rat NMDA channels, adjacent open and shut intervals appeared to be inversely related to each other, but it was only the relative areas of the three open time constants that changed with adjacent shut time intervals. 6. The long openings of human TLE NMDA channels resembled those produced by calcineurin inhibitors in control rat granule cells. Yet the calcineurin inhibitor FK-506 (500 nM) did not prolong the openings of human channels, consistent with a decreased calcineurin activity in human TLE. 7. Many properties of the human NMDA channels resemble those recorded in rat hippocampal neurons. Both have similar slope conductances, five exponential shut time distributions, complex groupings of openings, and a comparable number of openings per grouping. Other properties of human TLE NMDA channels correspond to those observed in kindling; the openings are considerably long, requiring an additional exponential component to fit their distributions, and inhibition of calcineurin is without effect in prolonging the openings.
Panic attacks are associated with increased autonomic symptoms, suggesting increased beta 2-adrenergic receptor (beta 2AR) function in PD. Tricyclic antidepressants downregulate beta AR function. Previous studies on beta AR function in PD, however, are inconsistent. We recently found increased beta AR coupling and density in neutrophils of symptomatic drug-free PD patients. This study evaluated beta AR coupling to Gs protein in 28 controls, 25 drug-free PD patients and 8 PD imipramine-treated patients. PD patients had significantly higher coupling and receptor density, particularly in the high-conformational state. Differences were more pronounced in patients with less depressive symptomatology. Treatment with imipramine was associated with decreased beta AR coupling and density in the high-conformational state. Several beta AR binding parameters were related to severity of anxiety symptoms and treatment outcome. Antidepressants downregulate beta AR density and induce uncoupling from Gs protein in PD. Future studies may investigate beta AR coupling in relationship to treatment outcome and the role of beta AR kinase in PD.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a common neurological disorder responsible for substantial neurological morbidity. Although it is considered to be an autoimmune demyelinating disease of the central nervous system (CNS), mediated by antigen-specific CD4+ T helper (Th1) T-cells, therapeutic strategies aimed at generalised immunosuppression have been disappointing. Recently, immunomodulatory therapies like interferon (IFN)-beta and glatiramer acetate have proved more effective. They reduce the rate and severity of clinical relapses and, in the case of IFN-beta, delay the rate of disease progression. Symptomatic therapies and rehabilitation, however, remain the mainstay of treatment for the majority of patients with MS. The immunopathogenesis of MS and its treatments, both disease modifying and symptomatic, are reviewed below.
The greatest barrier to the long-term storage of information in a biological system is the inevitability of molecular turnover. In this review, we discuss the features required of any chemical mechanism capable of overcoming this obstacle, positing that a specific type of &quot;mnemogenic&quot;, or memory-forming, chemical reaction is the basis of the engram. We describe how molecules as diverse as protein kinases, prions, and transcription factors can participate in mnemogenic reactions, and outline a blueprint for memory that postulates mnemogenic reactions at the synapse and in the nucleus and considers the constraints imposed by requirements for high fidelity and the ability to forget. This sort of a priori analysis may facilitate directed experimental approaches to understanding the mechanisms of lifelong memory.
Most 13C nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) isotopomer analyses relate a metabolic index of interest to populations of 13C isotopomers as reported by one-bond 13C-13C spin-spin couplings. Metabolic conditions that produce highly enriched citric acid cycle intermediates often lead to 13C NMR spectra of metabolites such as glutamate that show extra multiplets due to long-range couplings. It can be demonstrated from 13C NMR spectra of hearts perfused with mixtures of acetate plus propionate that multiplets in glutamate C2 arising from 3J25 coupling provide a direct readout of acetyl-CoA fractional enrichment (FC1 and FC3), while multiplets in glutamate C5 arising from 2J35 and 3J25 couplings quantitatively reflect enrichment of the anaplerotic substrate.
A key problem in mutagenesis research is developing methods that are sufficiently sensitive to detect a wide range of abnormal phenotypes. Major variants may be easy to identify, but it can be difficult to detect mutations that have subtle effects, particularly on a complex genetic background. This paper describes a targeted mutagenesis protocol with enough sensitivity to detect recessive mutations that have modest quantitative effects. The procedure relies on consomic inbred strains of mice-strains in which one homologous pair of chromosomes of an inbred strain has been replaced with the corresponding pair from a donor strain. Mice that carry the desired donor chromosome-the target of the screen-are mutagenized and bred back to the original recipient strain. The first-generation progeny (G1) that are heterozygous only for the donor chromosome are also bred back to the recipient strain. G2 animals that inherit nonrecombinant donor chromosomes are identified by genotyping. These animals may be backcrossed repeatedly to the recipient strain to dilute off-target mutations, but ultimately, nonrecombinant G2 animals are bred to each other. Their G3 progeny are genotyped at markers spaced at 5- to 10-cM intervals to identify mating pairs that are homozygous for shared segments of the mutagenized donor chromosome. Entire litters of G4 progeny that are homozygous for defined intervals are screened. By comparing phenotypes within and among litters of nearly isogenic G4 animals, mutations can be verified and simultaneously mapped with a precision of 5-10 cM. This method has the potential to consistently detect mutations that have effects on trait means of well under one standard deviation.
Patterning of fast and slow muscle fibres in limbs is regulated by signals from non-muscle cells. Myoblast lineage has, however, also been implicated in fibre type patterning. Here we test a founder cell hypothesis for the role of myoblast lineage, by implanting characterized fast and slow mouse myoblast clones into chick limb buds. In culture, late foetal mouse myoblast clones are committed to a probability (range 0-0.92) of slow myosin heavy chain (MyHC) expression. In contrast, when implanted into chick limbs, fast mouse myoblast clones express myosin characteristic of their new environment, without fusion to chick muscle cells and in the absence of innervation. Therefore, local signals exist within the chick limb bud during primary myogenesis that can override intrinsic commitment of at least some myoblasts, and induce slow MyHC.
Telencephalin (TLN) is a 130kDa, type 1 integral membrane glycoprotein of the immunoglobulin superfamily found in the mammalian central nervous system. TLN shows a molecular structure resembling intercellular adhesion molecules-1 and -3, and binds to the CD11a/CD18 leukocyte integrin. TLN was localized to neuronal dendrites in the telencephalic gray matter: cerebral cortex and basal ganglia. We studied immunohistochemically the expression of TLN in the developing human brain. In the hippocampus, TLN immunoreactivity appeared at 29 gestational weeks (GW), intensified subsequently, and persisted into adulthood. In the temporal cortex, labeling was weak and restricted to the cytoplasm of pyramidal neurons from 35 to 39 GW, but thereafter became diffuse and intense in the cortical layers, especially the molecular layer, by 5 months of postnatal age. The development of TLN was late compared to synaptophysin and microtubule-associated protein 2, suggesting its involvement in the functional maturation of neuronal dendrites and synapses.
The polyamines are ubiquitous in nature and appear to fulfil several important functions, mostly related to growth, in the cell. The first, and often rate-limiting, step in the biosynthesis of the polyamines is catalysed by ornithine decarboxylase (ODC), which is subject to a variety of control mechanisms. The polyamines exert a strong feedback regulation of the expression - as well as the degradation of the enzyme. The regulation of ODC expression appears to occur at the translational level. The ODC mRNA contains a long GC-rich 5' untranslated region (UTR), which has been demonstrated to hamper the translation of the mRNA. However, it has not yet been conclusively established whether this part of the mRNA fulfils any function in relation to the polyamine-mediated control of ODC synthesis. In the present study, we have used stable transgenic CHO cells, expressing either full-length ODC mRNA or 5' UTR-truncated ODC mRNA, to elucidate the role, if any, of the 5' UTR in the translational regulation of the enzyme by polyamines. No differences in regulatory properties were observed between the cells expressing the full-length ODC mRNA and those expressing the ODC mRNA devoid of most the 5' UTR. The cell lines down-regulated ODC (synthesis as well as activity) to the same extent upon exposure to an excess of polyamines, demonstrating that the feedback control of ODC mRNA translation occurs by a mechanism independent of the major part of the 5' UTR of the ODC mRNA.
In previous studies, we detected a major, unidentified Egr response element (ERE) binding complex in brain extracts. We now report that this complex contains a truncated isoform of Egr3 generated by use of an alternate translation start site at methionine 106. Furthermore, the ERE binding complex previously thought to contain full-length Egr3 includes several isoforms generated by initiation at other internal methionines. Full-length and truncated (missing residues 1 to 105) Egr3 isoforms differ in the ability to stimulate transcription directed by a tandem repeat of two EREs but not by a single ERE. Taken together, our results indicate that alternative translation start sites are used to generate Egr3 isoforms with distinct transcriptional properties.
The stable globin mRNAs provide an ideal system for studying the mechanism governing mammalian mRNA turnover. alpha-Globin mRNA stability is dictated by sequences in the 3' untranslated region (3'UTR) which form a specific ribonucleoprotein complex (alpha-complex) whose presence correlates with mRNA stability. One of the major protein components within this complex is a family of two polycytidylate-binding proteins, alphaCP1 and alphaCP2. Using an in vitro-transcribed and polyadenylated alpha-globin 3'UTR, we have devised an in vitro mRNA decay assay which reproduces the alpha-complex-dependent mRNA stability observed in cells. Incubation of the RNA with erythroleukemia K562 cytosolic extract results in deadenylation with distinct intermediates containing a periodicity of approximately 30 nucleotides, which is consistent with the binding of poly(A)-binding protein (PABP) monomers. Disruption of the alpha-complex by sequestration of alphaCP1 and alphaCP2 enhances deadenylation and decay of the mRNA, while reconstitution of the alpha-complex stabilizes the mRNA. Similarly, PABP is also essential for the stability of mRNA in vitro, since rapid deadenylation resulted upon its depletion. An RNA-dependent interaction between alphaCP1 and alphaCP2 with PABP suggests that the alpha-complex can directly interact with PABP. Therefore, the alpha-complex is an mRNA stability complex in vitro which could function at least in part by interacting with PABP.
In recent years, it has become increasingly evident that there is a genetic component to alcoholism. Attempts to isolate alcoholism genes have met with modest success, in part because alcoholism is a multigenic trait. Recently, experimental animal models and novel genetic manipulations have provided several clues as to the specific genes involved in alcoholism, and extensive research has identified many genes that might influence responses to alcohol. Although not all of these might be proven to influence drug sensitivity, research has provided evidence for the involvement of a few genes. Ultimately, findings from animal models that investigate the function of specific genes could aid the development of pharmacotherapies to treat alcohol dependence.
K-252b, a member of the staurosporine family of protein kinase inhibitors, selectively potentiates the activation of the nerve growth factor receptor, TrkA, by a nonpreferred ligand, neurotrophin-3 (NT-3), in a variety of cell types. At higher (micromolar) concentrations of K-252b, an inhibitory effect occurs because of the inhibitory action of K-252b on the Trk kinase. By examining analogs of K-252b, we identified the compound L-753,000 (NB-506), which potentiates the action of NT-3 on TrkA but is devoid of the inhibitory action of K-252b. L-753,000 was effective at nanomolar concentrations in a Chinese hamster ovary cell line that expressed TrkA but was devoid of p75, the low-affinity neurotrophin receptor. L-753,000 also potentiated the activation of mitogen-activating protein kinase signaling (downstream from Trk activation) by NT-3 in this cell line. Although L-753,000, like K-252b, had a negligible effect in the absence of NT-3, the compound was found to potentiate NT-3-induced survival in both rat and chick primary cultures of dissociated dorsal root ganglia (DRG) and on neurite outgrowth of chick DRG explants. Unlike K-252b, which at micromolar concentrations inhibits the survival response of NT-3 in dissociated rat DRG, L-753,000 continued to potentiate the actions of NT-3 up to a concentration of 10 microM. Furthermore, the compound, unlike K-252b, did not inhibit an unrelated protein kinase, protein kinase C, at concentrations up to 10 microM. Because L-753, 000 selectively potentiates the NT-3-induced stimulation of TrkA without inhibiting Trks and other protein kinases, it represents a novel class of selective modifiers of neurotrophin actions.
We investigated trans-acting factors mediating galanin (GAL) gene activation by protein kinase-dependent signal transduction pathways in chromaffin cells. GAL mRNA up-regulation via the protein kinase A (PKA) pathway (25 microM forskolin) required new protein synthesis. Stimulation via protein kinase C (0.1 microM phorbol myristate acetate) did not. The involvement of activator protein-1(AP-1) and cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) in serine/threonine protein kinase activation of GAL gene transcription was assessed. Cotransfection of a GAL reporter gene along with expression plasmids encoding c-Jun plus c-Fos, or the catalytic subunit of PKA (PKAbeta), resulted in a 4- to 8-fold enhancement of GAL reporter gene transcription. Transcriptional activation required the galanin 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate) response element (GTRE) octamer sequence (TGACGCGG) in the proximal enhancer of the GAL gene, previously shown to confer phorbol ester responsiveness in chromaffin cells. CREB coexpression did not stimulate GAL gene transcription or increase transcriptional activation by PKAbeta. The GTRE preferentially bound in vitro synthesized Jun and Fos-Jun, compared with CREB, in electrophoretic mobility shift assays. The GTRE preference for binding AP-1-immunoreactive protein compared with CREB was even more pronounced in chromaffin cell nuclear extracts, in which the majority of GTRE-bound protein in electrophoretic mobility shift assays was supershifted with anti-Fos and anti-Jun antibodies. Thus, GAL gene regulation mediated by protein kinase activation appears to involve both constitutively expressed and inducible AP-1-related proteins. Elevated potassium stimulation of GAL mRNA was completely blocked, but pituitary adenylyl cyclase-activating polypeptide and histamine stimulations were only partially blocked, by cycloheximide. Both inducible and constitutive pathways are therefore used by physiologically relevant first messengers that stimulate GAL biosynthesis in vivo.
Pharmacological study of rat thalamic gamma-aminobutyric acidA (GABAA) receptors revealed the presence of two distinct populations, namely, diazepam-sensitive and diazepam-insensitive [3H]Ro15-4513 binding sites accounting for 94 +/- 2% (1339 +/- 253 fmol/mg protein) and 6 +/- 2% (90 +/- 44 fmol/mg protein) of total sites, respectively. Thalamic diazepam-insensitive sites exhibited a pharmacology that was distinct from diazepam-sensitive sites but comparable to that of the alpha4beta3gamma2 subtype of the GABAA receptor stably expressed in L(tk-) cells. Immunoprecipitation experiments with a specific anti-alpha4-antiserum immunoprecipitated 20 and 7% of total thalamic [3H]muscimol and [3H]Ro15-4513 sites, respectively. Combinatorial immunoprecipitation using antisera against the alpha4, gamma2, and delta subunit revealed that alpha4delta- and alpha4gamma2-containing receptors account for 13 +/- 2 and 8 +/- 3% of [3H]muscimol sites from thalamus, respectively. It also indicated that all delta subunits coexist with an alpha4 subunit in this brain region. In conclusion, our results show that in rat thalamus both alpha4betagamma2 and alpha4betadelta subtypes are expressed but alpha4betadelta is the major alpha4-containing GABAA receptor population.
Large numbers of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) are being identified by several laboratories for the purpose of developing dense genetic maps. Single-strand conformation polymorphism (SSCP) analysis has been widely used as a method for detecting novel sequence variations in PCR products. Differences in migration of single-stranded DNA can be used not only to find mutations, but to genotype SNPs in large sample populations. Using PCR with fluorescent labeling and automated capillary electrophoresis SSCP (CE-SSCP), we have developed a panel of 15 functional candidate SNPs. With an automated single capillary instrument, relatively rapid and low cost CE-SSCP SNP genotyping using currently available technology is feasible for 135 000 genotypes per year. With parallel multiple array capillary electrophoresis, more genotypes per year may be attainable.
Previous studies reported the presence of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) mRNA and protein in the mammalian testis. We have now found that none of the ChAT mRNAs produced in the testis is capable of encoding a full-length ChAT protein. Two ChAT cDNAs were isolated from an adult rat testis cDNA library encoding N-terminally truncated ChAT proteins of 450 and 414 amino acids (aa), respectively, the former containing a novel N-terminal extension of 69 residues. Rapid Amplification of cDNA Ends (RACE) analysis revealed a complex pattern of 5' untranslated mRNA termini generated from the ChAT gene locus in the testis, all representing truncated versions of the ChAT enzyme. Two of these proteins were produced in transfected fibroblasts and found to lack ChAT activity. Neither did they show binding to the ChAT substrates, acetyl CoA and choline, in a competition assay. These results indicate that mammalian testis lacks a bona fide ChAT enzyme but expresses truncated ChAT proteins with a possible unique function to the testis.


We describe a patient with an unusual clinical presentation of progressive multiple cranial nerve palsies, cerebellar ataxia, and palatal tremor (PT) resulting from an unknown etiology. Magnetic resonance imaging showed evidence of hypertrophy of the inferior olivary nuclei, brain stem atrophy, and marked cerebellar atrophy. This combination of progressive multiple cranial nerve palsies, cerebellar ataxia, and PT has never been reported in the literature. We have also reviewed the literature of PT secondary to neurodegenerative causes. In a total of 23 patients, the common causes are sporadic olivopontocerebellar atrophy (OPCA; 22%), Alexander's disease (22%), unknown etiology (43.4%), and occasionally progressive supranuclear palsy (4.3%) and spinocerebellar degeneration (4.3%). Most patients present with progressive cerebellar ataxia and approximately two thirds of them have rhythmic tremors elsewhere. Ear clicks are observed in 13% and evidence of hypertrophy of the inferior olivary nucleus in 25% of the patients. The common neurodegenerative causes of PT are OPCA/multiple system atrophy, Alexander's disease, and, in most of them, the result of an unknown cause.
A prospective longitudinal 6-year study of 34 patients with Parkinson's disease from the time of initiation of drug treatment explored changes in the motor response to L-dopa over the early to mid disease course. Motor fluctuations developed in 41% after a mean L-dopa treatment interval of 25 months and dyskinesia developed in 53% after a mean of 15 months' treatment. Patients who developed fluctuations had a significantly better response to L-dopa than nonfluctuators. Nonfluctuators also had significantly greater &quot;midline&quot; motor disability affecting cranial and truncal muscles and gait. The development of motor fluctuations may simply reflect a retained capacity to respond to L-dopa as endogenous dopaminergic neurotransmission declines with progressive nigral cell loss. Many patients who show no sign of motor fluctuation 5 or 6 years into the disease course have a relatively blunted response to L-dopa. The proportion of such cases seems to correspond to the percentage that have coexisting striatal pathologic changes in postmortem studies.
Lateral antebrachial cutaneous neuropathy (LACN) was diagnosed in a young woman who developed pain and paresthesias in the right forearm after a long day of windsurfing (board sailing). The symptoms resolved with conservative treatment, including cessation of windsurfing and a brief course of oral corticosteroids. There was a permanent residual cutaneous sensory deficit in the distribution of the LACN. LACN is important to recognize because the symptomatology may mimic pathology of a cervical root, the brachial plexus, and the radial and median nerves at the level of the elbow.
Haem oxygenase-1 (HO1) is a heat-shock protein that is induced by stressful stimuli. Here we demonstrate a cytoprotective role for HO1: cell death produced by serum deprivation, staurosporine or etoposide is markedly accentuated in cells from mice with a targeted deletion of the HO1 gene, and greatly reduced in cells that overexpress HO1. Iron efflux from cells is augmented by HO1 transfection and reduced in HO1-deficient fibroblasts. Iron accumulation in HO1-deficient cells explains their death: iron chelators protect HO1-deficient fibroblasts from cell death. Thus, cytoprotection by HO1 is attributable to its augmentation of iron efflux, reflecting a role for HO1 in modulating intracellular iron levels and regulating cell viability.

We investigated long-term potentiation (LTP) at mossy fiber synapses on CA3 pyramidal neurons in the hippocampus. Using Ca2+ imaging techniques, we show here that when postsynaptic Ca2+ was sufficiently buffered so that [Ca2+]i did not rise during synaptic stimulation, the induction of mossy fiber LTP was prevented. In addition, induction of mossy fiber LTP was suppressed by postsynaptic injection of a peptide inhibitor of cAMP-dependent protein kinase. Finally, when ionotropic glutamate receptors were blocked, LTP depended on the postsynaptic release of Ca2+ from internal stores triggered by activation of metabotropic glutamate receptors. These results support the conclusion that mossy fiber LTP and LTP at other hippocampal synapses share a common induction mechanism involving an initial rise in postsynaptic [Ca2+].

Whether cortical neurons act as coincidence detectors or temporal integrators has implications for the way in which the cortex encodes information--by average firing rate or by precise timing of action potentials. In this study, we examine temporal coding by a simple passive-membrane model neuron responding to a full spectrum of multisynaptic input patterns, from highly coincident to temporally dispersed. The temporal precision of the model's action potentials varies continuously along the spectrum, depends very little on the number of synaptic inputs, and is shown to be tightly correlated with the mean slope of the membrane potential preceding the output spikes. These results are shown to be largely independent of the size of postsynaptic potentials, of random background synaptic activity, and of shape of the correlated multisynaptic input pattern. An experimental test involving membrane potential slope is suggested to help determine the basic operating mode of an observed cortical neuron.
Neuroscience is progressing vigorously, and knowledge at different levels of description is rapidly accumulating. To establish relationships between results found at these different levels is one of the central challenges. In this simulation study, we demonstrate how microscopic cellular properties, taking the example of the action of modulatory substances onto the membrane leakage current, can provide the basis for the perceptual functions reflected in the macroscopic behavior of a cortical network. In the first part, the action of the modulatory system on cortical dynamics is investigated. First, it is demonstrated that the inclusion of these biophysical properties in a model of the primary visual cortex leads to the dynamic formation of synchronously active neuronal assemblies reflecting a context-dependent binding and segmentation of image components. Second, it is shown that the differential regulation of the leakage current can be used to bias the interactions of multiple cortical modules. This allows the flexible use of different feature domains for scene segmentation. Third, we demonstrate how, within the proposed architecture, the mapping of a moving stimulus onto the spatial dimension of the network results in an increased speed of synchronization. In the second part, we demonstrate how the differential regulation of neuromodulatory activity can be achieved in a self-consistent system. Three different mechanisms are described and investigated. This study thus demonstrates how a modulatory system, affecting the biophysical properties of single cells, can be used to achieve context-dependent processing at the system level.
Until recently, the only risk factors implicated in noninherited cases of Alzheimer's disease were increasing age, Down's syndrome, and probably, head injury. Having found that herpes simplex type 1 virus (HSV1) is present in the brain of many elderly people, we discovered that it is a risk factor for Alzheimer's disease when in the central nervous system of APOE-epsilon4 allele carriers. On the basis of this result and our finding that apoE-epsilon4 is a risk factor for herpes labialis, we suggested that the combination of virus and genetic factor is particularly damaging in the nervous system. The present review describes 1) the search for HSV1 in human brain; 2) HSV1 infection of the peripheral nervous system; 3) HSV1 infection of the central nervous system; 4) how APOE genotype might influence HSV1 infection; 5) possible APOE genotype effect on viral latency and its reactivation; 6) interactions of viruses with lipoproteins, their components, and lipoprotein receptors; 7) the role of APOE in repair; 8) pathological processes in AD and their relationship to prior damage; and 9) implications for the prevention or treatment of Alzheimer's disease.
The integrity of hippocampal G-protein mediated signalling following ibotenate induced lesion of the medial septum was examined. The lesion was confined histologically to the septum and induced a 23% reduction in hippocampal choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activity and G-proteins levels and related enzyme activities were measured in the hippocampus following a 21 day survival period. The relative levels of five G-protein subunits (Gbeta, G(alpha)o, G(alpha)i1, G(alpha)i2, and G(alpha)s-L), basal GTPase, the degree of carbachol- or baclofen-stimulated GTPase activities, and the basal and fluoroaluminate-stimulated adenylate cyclase activities were apparently unaffected. To determine if our assay methodology was sensitive to changes in pre-synaptic signalling, we compared G-protein density in synaptosomes with total hippocampal homogenates. The concentration of G(alpha)q/11, G(alpha)i1, and G(alpha)i2. were significantly lower in synaptosomes, while G(alpha)o, was only marginally reduced. Thus, modest lesions of the medial-septal nucleus fail to alter G-protein signalling. However, our findings that G-protein density is lower in synaptosomal membranes than in total homogenates, indicates that the analysis of signalling events in synaptosomes following deafferentation could clarify adaptive changes which may occur at the presynaptic level.
Manganism is a disorder characterized by hyperintensities in basal ganglia structures on magnetic resonance imaging which may be the consequence of manganese deposition in these areas. Since manganese is taken up avidly into astrocytes and is known to interfere with cerebral energy metabolism, we studied the effect of this metal on the expression and activity of the glycolytic enzyme glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) in primary cultures of astrocytes. Treatment with 100 microM manganese for 7 days increased both the Vmax and Km values for GAPDH which was not reproducible with other divalent metals. Using RT-PCR, increased GAPDH expression was detected in cells exposed to manganese compared with controls. No changes in cytochrome oxidase activity or ATP levels were observed, and lactate production was unaffected, in manganese-treated cells. These findings provide evidence of a possible role for GAPDH in the mediation of the effects of manganese on central nervous system function.
Free radicals are involved in neuronal damage. Bifemelane hydrochloride has been reported to protect neural tissues against ischemic damage and age-related neurodegeneration. We examined the protective effects of bifemelane HCl and the relation between its effectiveness and free radical formation in hydrogen peroxide (H2O2)-induced cytotoxicity using cultured rat neuroblastoma cell line (B50). Cytotoxicity was examined by using the lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) assay and cell viability by the WST-1 assay. H2O2 reduced the survival of B50 cells in a dose-dependent manner, and treatment of these cells with 75 microM or 100 microM H2O2 reduced their viability by 50% relative to the control group. B50 cells were treated with 5 or 10 microM bifemelane for 2 days followed by treatment with 75 microM or 100 microM H2O2. H2O2 cytotoxicity was reduced by pretreatment with bifemelane. We also examined the effect of bifemelane on lipid peroxide formation in B50 cells using thiobarbituric acid reactive substances assay. Pretreatment of B50 cells with 10 microM bifemelane for 2 days reduced lipid peroxide formation to approximately 54% of the control group. Our results suggest that bifemelane hydrochloride provides a protective effect against H2O2 cytotoxicity partly due to its anti-oxidative properties.
Our laboratory has reported that pentobarbital-induced anesthesia reduced the incorporation of intravenously injected radiolabeled palmitic acid into brain phospholipids. To determine if this decrease reflected a pentobarbital-induced decrease in palmitate turnover in phospholipids, we applied our method and model to study net flux and turnover of palmitate in brain phospholipids (1). Awake, light and deep pentobarbital (25-70 mg/kg, iv) anesthetized rats were infused with [9,10-3H]palmitate over a 5 min period. Brain electrical activity was monitored by electroencephalography. An isoelectric electroencephalogram characterized deep pentobarbital anesthesia. Net incorporation rates (J(FA,i)) and turnover rates (Fi) of palmitate were calculated. J(FA,i) for palmitate incorporated into phospholipids was dramatically reduced by pentobarbital treatment in a dose-dependent manner, by 70% and 90% respectively for lightly and deeply anesthetized animals, compared with awake controls. Turnover rates for palmitate in total phospholipid and individual phospholipid classes were decreased by nearly 70% and 90% for lightly and deeply anesthetized animals, respectively. Thus, pentobarbital decreases, in a dose-dependent manner, the turnover of palmitate in brain phospholipids. This suggests that palmitate turnover is closely coupled to brain functional activity.
Recent event-related FMRI studies indicate that the prefrontal (PFC) and the medial temporal lobe (MTL) regions are more active during effective encoding than during ineffective encoding. The within-subject design and the use of well-educated young college students in these studies makes it important to replicate these results in other study populations. In this PET study, we used an auditory word-pair association cued-recall paradigm and investigated a group of healthy upper middle-aged/older illiterate women. We observed a positive correlation between cued-recall success and the regional cerebral blood flow of the left inferior PFC (BA 47) and the MTLs. Specifically, we used the cued-recall success as a covariate in a general linear model and the results confirmed that the left inferior PFC and the MTL are more active during effective encoding than during ineffective encoding. These effects were observed during encoding of both semantically and phonologically related word pairs, indicating that these effects are robust in the studied population, that is, reproducible within group. These results generalize the results of Brewer et al. (1998, Science 281, 1185-1187) and Wagner et al. (1998, Science 281, 1188-1191) to an upper middle aged/older illiterate population. In addition, the present study indicates that effective relational encoding correlates positively with the activity of the anterior medial temporal lobe regions.
In fMRI there are two classes of inference: one aims to make a comment about the &quot;typical&quot; characteristics of a population, and the other about &quot;average&quot; characteristics. The first pertains to studies of normal subjects that try to identify some qualitative aspect of normal functional anatomy. The second class necessarily applies to clinical neuroscience studies that want to make an inference about quantitative differences of a regionally specific nature. The first class of inferences is adequately serviced by conjunction analyses and fixed-effects models with relatively small numbers of subjects. The second requires random-effect analyses and larger cohorts.
Ultrasound and Doppler phenomenon constitute the basis of ultrasound diagnostics in neurosciences. They permit to visualize vessel walls and blood flow and allow the quantitative assessment of its velocity and direction. The last years bring the rapid development of these techniques. The introduction of color flow Doppler, power Doppler and Duplex or Triplex ultrasound systems extended the possibilities of ultrasound diagnostics. Thanks to these applications the new non-invasive methods facilitating the assessment of extra- and intracranial vessels and monitoring of blood flow and collateral circulation in many CNS lesions came into being. The authors review the literature concerning this topic.
Objective. Since 1996 we have placed temporary catheters at the cervical nerve roots in chronic pain patients for the treatment of radiculopathy and complex regional pain syndrome. We investigated the possibility of placing electrodes both at the cervical spinal nerve and dorsal root ganglion for the purpose of neuromodulation. Methods. Anatomic and technical feasibility studies were performed on 4 human cadavers to examine the placement of electrodes at the cervical nerve roots. We proposed a novel trans-spinal approach to the cervical and upper thoracic nerve roots. We tested various approaches and insertion techniques. We collected radiographic images of the essential steps involved in this technique. Results. Successful placement was accomplished in 3 of the 4 cadavers at the C3, C4, C5, C6, C7, C8, T1, and T2 nerve roots. For placement at C5 to T2, we used a trans-spinal approach entering at the corresponding contralateral interlaminar space. However, due to the anatomy of the cervical nerve roots, vertebral artery, cervical plexus, and occiput, it was necessary to use a different technique for the upper cervical nerve roots. For placement at the C3 and C4 nerve roots, we made the initial insertion between the C1 and C2 lamina using curved needles which were advanced in a caudal direction transversing the median plane of the spine to arrive at the contralateral inter vertebral foramen of either C3 or C4. We were unable to cannulate either C1 or C2 in any of the cadavers. The required equipment included fluoroscopy, contrast dye, directable guide wires, electrodes, and curved needles. Conclusions. In human cadavers, a percutaneous technique was successful in the placement of neurostimulator electrodes at the cervical and upper thoracic nerve roots using a novel trans-spinal approach. New smaller electrode systems that can be placed in a transforaminal position safely may be needed.
Objective. To evaluate effectiveness of spinal cord stimulation (SCS) applied to complex regional pain syndrome I (CRPS I). To analyze trends to focus the design of a multicenter prospective study. Design. Retrospective multicenter series, 3 years. Outcome measures. We collected visual analog scales for pain and patient satisfaction data on n= 101 patients. Patients were divided into two groups: Group I had single-lead quadrapolar systems, Group II had dual-lead octapolar systems. Results. Mean pain scores decreased in both groups with a significantly greater decrease in Group II (p &lt; 0.0001). 74.6% of Group II patients preferred multiple programming arrays with 15.5% requiring frequencies &gt; 250Hz.; overall satisfaction scores were 70% in Group I and 91% in Group II (p &lt; 0.05). Conclusions. SCS is an effective treatment of pain in CRPS I. Frequencies &gt; 250Hz were necessary in some patients to maintain or re-establish pain control. Bilateral multielectrode leads appear superior with application of multiple arrays, permitting paresthesia steering without need for surgical revision. A multicenter, prospective design is needed applying dual-lead multichannel systems with high frequency capabilities in the treatment of CRPS I.
Spinal cord stimulation has become an accepted technique used in the management of chronic neuropathic pain syndromes. However, a number of problematic questions remain unanswered. This introduction states some of these problems and concentrates on the problem of whether low back pain can be relieved by stimulation. This paper introduces subsequent contributions to this symposium, which offer some interesting new techniques, and attempts to answer some of the problems presented.
We recently mapped a locus for a new variant of autosomal dominant myopathy (Swedish families) with proximal muscle weakness, early respiratory muscle involvement, and unique muscle biopsy findings to chromosomal region 2q24-31. In this study, a French family with a similar clinical phenotype and pathology (muscle biopsy) was investigated to see whether the disease gene associated with the myopathy is mapped to the same region as the one in the Swedish families; however, chromosomal region 2q24-q31 was completely excluded. In order to localise the disease gene for the French family, a genome-wide scan was performed using polymorphic microsatellite markers. A maximum two-point lod score of 2.11 (the highest lod score that can be achieved in this family) was obtained for the markers in the region between D2S1272 and D2S1260, spanning 4 cM. This result suggests that the gene responsible for the French form is likely to be located on chromosome 2q21.
We show that neurons that underlie rhythmic patterns of electrical output may be identified by optical imaging and frequency-domain analysis. Our contrast agent is a two-component dye system in which changes in membrane potential modulate the relative emission between a pair of fluorophores. We demonstrate our methods with the circuit responsible for fictive swimming in the isolated leech nerve cord. The output of a motor neuron provides a reference signal for the phase-sensitive detection of changes in fluorescence from individual neurons in a ganglion. We identify known and possibly novel neurons that participate in the swim rhythm and determine their phases within a cycle. A variant of this approach is used to identify the postsynaptic followers of intracellularly stimulated neurons.
Pain is unique among sensations in that the perceived intensity increases, or sensitizes, during exposure to a strong stimulus. One important mediator of sensitization is bradykinin (BK), a peptide released as a consequence of tissue damage. BK enhances the membrane ionic current activated by heat in nociceptive neurons, using a pathway that involves activation of protein kinase C (PKC). We find that five PKC isoforms are present in sensory neurons but that only PKC-epsilon is translocated to the cell membrane by BK. The heat response is sensitized when constitutively active PKC-epsilon is incorporated into nociceptive neurons. Conversely, BK-induced sensitization is suppressed by a specific peptide inhibitor of PKC-epsilon. We conclude that PKC-epsilon is principally responsible for sensitization of the heat response in nociceptors by bradykinin.
Shank is a recently described family of postsynaptic proteins that function as part of the NMDA receptor-associated PSD-95 complex (Naisbitt et al., 1999 [this issue of Neuron]). Here, we report that Shank proteins also bind to Homer. Homer proteins form multivalent complexes that bind proline-rich motifs in group 1 metabotropic glutamate receptors and inositol trisphosphate receptors, thereby coupling these receptors in a signaling complex. A single Homer-binding site is identified in Shank, and Shank and Homer coimmunoprecipitate from brain and colocalize at postsynaptic densities. Moreover, Shank clusters mGluR5 in heterologous cells in the presence of Homer and mediates the coclustering of Homer with PSD-95/GKAP. Thus, Shank may cross-link Homer and PSD-95 complexes in the PSD and play a role in the signaling mechanisms of both mGluRs and NMDA receptors.
Recently, it has been shown that cerebellar LTD has a late phase that may be blocked by protein synthesis inhibitors. To understand the mechanisms underlying the late phase, we interfered with the activation of transcription factors that might couple synaptic activation to protein synthesis. Particle-mediated transfection of cultured Purkinje neurons with an expression vector encoding a dominant inhibitory form of CREB resulted in a nearly complete blockade of the late phase. Kinases that activate CREB were inhibited, and LTD was assessed. Inhibition of PKA or the MAPK/RSK cascades were without effect on the late phase, while constructs designed to interfere with CaMKIV function attenuated the late phase. These results indicate that the activation of CaMKIV and CREB are necessary to establish a late phase of cerebellar LTD.



We determined whether neonatal exposure to cocaine with or without delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) altered the behavioral responses of weanling rats to the full D1 dopamine (DA) agonist SKF 81297. Rats were injected SC once daily from postnatal day (PD) 1 through 5 with cocaine (20 mg/kg), the same dose of cocaine plus THC (10 mg/kg), or drug vehicle. On PDs 24, 25, or 26, male and female littermates were administered 3 or 10 mg/kg of SKF 81297 or saline vehicle, and then tested 15 min later in an open-field apparatus. Neither neonatal drug treatment nor gender influenced the behavioral responses to SKF 81297. The drug challenge did, however, produce several dose-dependent behavioral effects, including increases in locomotor activity, line crossing, sniffing, and headshakes, and a decreased incidence of rearing, grooming, and stationary behavior. Furthermore, even though earlier administration of cocaine and THC failed to alter D1 receptor sensitivity, animals in both neonatal treatment groups exhibited an overall increase in grooming behavior and a decrease in sniffing compared to controls when the results were combined across doses of SKF 81297. These findings indicate that early postnatal exposure to cocaine can alter certain behaviors independently of functional changes in the D1 receptor system.
Studies on the sigma receptor and related compounds are becoming more attractive since they were found to be closely related to higher brain functions such as memory, learning, depression, anxiety, schizophrenia and neuroprotection. Along with these pharmacological findings, the single transmembrane-type, non-metabotropic sigma binding protein has been cloned, while the presence of metabotropic sigma receptor has been also claimed. Thus, various pharmacological findings are now ready to be characterized on the molecular basis of receptor mechanisms. On the other hand, neurosteroids have higher brain functions such as non-genomic fast actions, which are similar to the actions of sigma compounds. Indeed some neurosteroids were revealed to behave as sigma agonists while others behave like antagonists of metabotropic sigma receptors. Pharmacological studies to determine if sigma compounds can be used to cure various central symptoms related to neurosteroids or steroid hormones can be expected.
Epidepride [(S)-(-)-N-([1-ethyl-2-pyrrolidinyl]methyl)-5-iodo-2,3-dimethoxybenza mide] binds with a picomolar affinity (Ki = 24 pM) to the dopamine D2 receptor. Iodine-123-labeled epidepride has been used previously to study striatal and extrastriatal dopamine D2 receptors with single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). Our aim was to label epidepride with carbon-11 for comparative quantitative studies between positron emission tomography (PET) and SPECT. Epidepride was synthesized from its bromo-analogue FLB 457 via the corresponding trimethyl-tin derivative. In an alternative synthetic pathway, the corresponding substituted benzoic acid was reacted with the optically pure aminomethylpyrrolidine-derivative. Demethylation of epidepride gave the desmethyl-derivative, which was reacted with [11C]methyl triflate. Total radiochemical yield was 40-50% within a total synthesis time of 30 min. The specific radioactivity at the end of synthesis was 37-111 GBq/micromol (1,000-3,000 Ci/mmol). Human postmortem whole-hemisphere autoradiography demonstrated dense binding in the caudate putamen, and also in extrastriatal areas such as the thalamus and the neocortex. The binding was inhibited by unlabeled raclopride. PET studies in a cynomolgus monkey demonstrated high uptake in the striatum and in several extrastriatal regions. At 90 min after injection, uptake in the striatum, thalamus and neocortex was about 11, 4, and 2 times higher than in the cerebellum, respectively. Pretreatment experiment with unlabeled raclopride (1 mg/kg) inhibited 50-70% of [11C]epidepride binding. The fraction of unchanged [11C]epidepride in monkey plasma determined by a gradient high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) method was about 30% of the total radioactivity at 30 min after injection of [11C]epidepride. The availability of [11C]epidepride allows the PET-verification of the data obtained from quantitation studies with SPECT.
The development of suitable radioligands for brain imaging of the serotonin transporter is of great importance for the study of depression and other affective disorders. The potent and selective serotonin transporter ligand, 5-iodo-6-nitro-2-piperazinylquinoline, has been labelled with iodine-123 and used as a radioligand for single photon emission computerized tomography. To evaluate the potential of the bromine-76-labelled analogue, 5-bromo-6-nitroquipazine, as a radioligand for positron emission tomography (PET), its brain distribution and binding characteristics were examined in rats. In vivo brain distribution and ex vivo autoradiography demonstrated that [76Br]5-bromo-6-nitroquipazine enters the brain rapidly. The regional brain distribution of [76Br]5-bromo-6-nitroquipazine was consistent with the known distribution of serotonin transporters in the midbrain, pons, thalamus, striatum, and neocortex. Specific binding was inhibited by the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor citalopram. The peripheral metabolism in plasma was rapid, but more than 90% of the radioactivity in brain represented unchanged radioligand 2 h postinjection (p.i.). A preliminary PET study was also performed in a baboon. Following the intravenous injection of [76Br]5-bromo-6-nitroquipazine in a baboon, there was a conspicuous accumulation of radioactivity in thalamus, striatum, and pons. The radioactivity in these brain regions was 1.5 times higher than in the cerebellum at 3 h and 2.5-4 times higher at 24 h. A rapid metabolism of the radioligand in plasma was observed (38% unchanged after 5 min). The results indicate that [76Br]5-bromo-6-nitroquipazine has potential for PET imaging of the serotonin transporter.

The catecholaminergic systems of sudden infant death syndrome victims were examined in the diencephalon and basal ganglia, in addition to the midbrain, pons, and medulla oblongata, using the immuno-histochemical method involving tyrosine hydroxylase. A significant decrease in tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity was demonstrated in the basal ganglia of sudden infant death syndrome victims between 2 to 12 months of age compared with age-matched control subjects. This change in the basal ganglia may be a secondary finding induced by chronic hypoxia or repeated ischemia in sudden infant death syndrome but suggests impairment of the development of the neuronal connection from the brainstem to the upper cardiorespiratory control in sudden infant death syndrome.
We have investigated the effects of vanadate (Vi) on force generation by, and shortening of, chemically skinned smooth muscle preparations from guinea-pig taenia coli at 22 degrees C. A method, using phosphatase inhibitors, was introduced to obtain stable, long-lasting contractions in thiophosphorylated preparations. Vi (10-1000 microM) dose-dependently inhibited active force, to about 20% of its maximum level. At a higher temperature (30 degrees C), the rate of inhibition was faster but the extent of inhibition was less. The rate of contraction following photolytic release of ATP to fibres in rigor was not affected by Vi (30 microM). The maximal shortening velocity (Vmax) was inhibited in a similar manner as active force by Vi (30 microM). In conclusion, the results suggest that Vi interacts with a force-generating actomyosin-ADP (AMADP) state reached after phosphate release. The rate of inhibition of smooth muscle contraction was markedly lower than in skeletal muscle, suggesting differences either in properties of the Vi-bound states or, more likely, in the concentration of AMADP states capable of binding Vi. This suggests that the long duty cycle in smooth muscle is not associated with a higher relative population of AMADP states reached immediately after Pi release, but rather by an increase in the population of subsequent force-generating cross-bridge states. The Vi-bound cross-bridges introduce an internal load to shortening, possibly acting in a similar manner as cross-bridge states introduced at low levels of activation.
Potentially life-threatening seizures can occur following withdrawal from benzodiazepines, ethanol, or barbiturates. In animals, withdrawal severity has been shown to be partially genetically determined for each drug class. Susceptibility to these drugs is partially determined by common genetic factors, but the evidence is conflicting. We tested the hypothesis that acute benzodiazepine withdrawal convulsions are influenced by at least some genes that also affect withdrawal from ethanol and pentobarbital. Results in inbred mouse strains demonstrate that strain susceptibility is genetically correlated with susceptibility to ethanol and pentobarbital. The proportion of variance accounted for by genetic factors common to diazepam and ethanol was estimated at 69%. Results contrast with previous data obtained in mice that were serially tested for withdrawal severity from ethanol, pentobarbital, and then diazepam, because serial testing of mice significantly affected the previous results for some strains. Diazepam withdrawal severity was also genetically correlated with pentobarbital withdrawal. Together, these results suggest that some genes influence severity of withdrawal from several types of depressant drugs.
Pretreatment (19 h) with the putative antiaddictive agent, ibogaine, has been shown previously to potentiate cocaine-induced locomotion in rats. The present study demonstrates that the magnitude of this effect of ibogaine is dependent on the previous cocaine history of the animal, on the time following ibogaine treatment, and on the number of ibogaine treatments. Compared to rats with no previous cocaine experience, ibogaine pretreatment (40 mg/kg, IP, 19 h earlier) markedly enhanced the expression of locomotor sensitization in response to a cocaine challenge injection (7.5 mg/kg) in rats that were chronically treated with cocaine (15 mg/ kg, IP, daily for 5 days). Tolerance to cocaine-induced locomotor sensitization appeared to occur in vehicle-pretreated chronic cocaine controls. Following a second series of identical treatments (beginning 3-4 days after the initial treatment series), locomotor responding to the cocaine challenge was further enhanced by a second ibogaine injection in chronically cocaine-treated animals. Twenty-four hours later, when animals were challenged again with cocaine in the absence of any further ibogaine pretreatment, the effect of ibogaine had dissipated. Consistent with previous studies from this laboratory, these data demonstrate that ibogaine can enhance sensitivity to the psychomotor stimulant effect of cocaine. The results of the present study further indicate that the extent of this effect depends on the animal's history of exposure to both ibogaine and cocaine.
Taste preference in obese mice was examined using genetically obese (bombesin receptor subtype-3: BRS-3 deficient) animals. Preference for either sodium saccharin (0.2%). sodium chloride (0.9%), citric acid (0.1%), or quinine sulfate (0.002%) solution was examined using a two-bottle test situation, and BRS-3 deficient mice not only showed a stronger preference for saccharin solution, but also a stronger aversive response to quinine solution, relative to wild-type littermates. Furthermore, a conditioned taste-aversion test measured the consumption of sodium saccharin (0.2%) and sodium chloride (0.9%) solutions after intraperitoneal injection of LiCl (0.3 M, 1 mg/kg), and BRS-3-deficient mice exhibited stronger aversion to both solutions than did control animals. In situ hybridization demonstrated that the BRS-3 gene is expressed in the parabrachial nucleus, the medial and central nuclei of the amygdala, and the hypothalamic nuclei such as paraventricular nucleus, all of which are known to be involved in taste perception. These results suggest that expression of the BRS-3 gene in these nuclei is important for the modulation of taste preference, as well as the development of obesity.
To determine the effects of endogenous and exogenous melatonin on experimental models of Parkinson's disease (PD), Sprague-Dawley rats were exposed to intracerebroventricular implants of slow release melatonin, pinealectomy (PX), or constant light (LL) and then injected with central 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) or i.p. 1-methyl-4-phenyl,1-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP). The resulting impairment of motor function and related behavioural impairment were exacerbated by melatonin implantation, while PX and exposure to LL significantly reduced the severity of experimental PD. These results are consistent with previous work highlighting the importance of aberrant amine production in neurological disease and demonstrate that treatments that reduce endogenous melatonin bioavailability can ameliorate experimental PD. Furthermore, these findings illustrate that melatonin is not the universal remedy that it is currently claimed to be, and may pose considerable problems in neurological diseases characterised by dopamine degeneration.

1. Reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) was used to investigate the effects of haloperidol treatment (1 mg/kg/day for 2, 7 or 21 consecutive days) on the expression of D1B and D3 dopamine receptor mRNAs in the rat lymphocytes. 2. The expression of D1B receptor mRNA was significantly decreased after 2 days of treatment and progressively returned toward basal values at the end of treatment. Conversely, haloperidol failed to modify the expression of lymphocyte D3 receptor mRNA. 3. These results indicate short-lasting dynamic changes of expression of lymphocyte D1B dopamine receptor mRNA by haloperidol and suggest that the effects of dopamine and dopaminergic drugs on the immune system might be mediated, at least in part, by direct interaction of these substances with dopamine receptors on lymphocyte membrane.
1. Accumulations of phosphorylated neurofilaments are seen in affected motor neurones in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). 2. The authors demonstrate that cyclin dependent kinase-5 (cdk-5) will induce cellular phosphorylation of neurofilament heavy chain side-arms to generate epitopes for several antibodies that label these neurofilament accumulations. 3. By creating recombinant neurofilament fragments of NF-H side-arm domains, the authors also map the epitopes for several of these antibodies. 4. Finally, the authors demonstrate that cdk-5 is also present in affected motor neurones in ALS. These studies implicate cdk-5 in the pathogenesis of ALS.


Two cases of lycanthropy presenting as part of a depressive disorder are described. The patients responded favorably to pharmacotherapy. In both cases, a positive history of dog bite influenced the presentation of symptoms. The authors speculate whether the defense of identification with the aggressor was operative.

In a recent paper, Pritchard, Krieble, and Duke (Psychophysiology, 33, 362-368, 1996) studied the validity of spatial embedding of electroencephalographic (EEG) data and rejected this method in favor of time-delay embedding. The present paper describes the nonlinear characterization of brain dynamics using either spatial or time-delay embedding. We discuss the arguments published in Pritchard et al. (1996) and demonstrate that the spatial embedding cannot be rejected on this basis. We also point out the limitations of both spatial and time-delay embeddings related to the spatial extension and the high-dimensional dynamics of brain activity.
Choice reaction time (RT) is shorter when the stimulus corresponds spatially to the response than when the stimulus does not, even when the stimulus location is irrelevant to the task. We used electromyographic measures to document that this effect is the result of a response conflict. The activity of the prime movers of two alternative responses was recorded during the performance of a visual RT task in which the irrelevant spatial correspondence between the stimuli and the responses was varied. Only the premotor component of RT was affected by the stimulus-response correspondence. Correct trials were distinguished according to whether or not the activation of the prime mover involved in the required response was preceded by an activation of the prime mover involved in the alternative response. Double muscular activation trials were more numerous for noncorresponding than for corresponding stimulus-response associations. Furthermore, these trials yielded longer RTs than the single muscular activation trials.
Thirty scalp sites were used to investigate the specific topography of the event-related potentials (ERPs) related to face associative priming when masked eyes of familiar faces were completed with either the proper features or incongruent ones. The enhanced negativity of N210 and N350, due to structural incongruity of faces, have a &quot;category specific&quot; inferotemporal localization on the scalp. Additional analyses support the existence of multiple ERP features within the temporal interval typically associated with N400 (N350 and N380), involving occipitotemporal and centroparietal areas. Seven reliable dipole locations have been evidenced using the brain electrical source analysis algorithm. Some of these localizations (fusiform, parahippocampal) are already known to be involved in face recognition, the other ones being related to general cognitive processes related to the task's demand. Because of their specific topography, the observed effects suggest that the face structural congruency process might involve early specialized neocortical areas in parallel with cortical memory circuits in the integration of perceptual and cognitive face processing.
Fourteen children with attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and 14 normal control children were compared with respect to stimulus- and response-related processes. Subjects with ADHD took part in two additional sessions under methylphenidate or placebo. In both experiments, performance and electrophysiological measures such as the P2, N2, and P3 components of event-related potential and electromyogram (EMG) activity were measured during an Eriksen flanker task. In both groups of children, reaction times (RTs) to arrow stimuli incongruent with the target were longer than those to neutral stimuli (response interference), which were again slower than RTs to target-alone stimuli (perceptual interference). Children with ADHD made more errors to incongruent stimuli and showed more response interference. For correct responses, no differences between the groups in response interference effects on reaction time, P2, N2, and P3 latency, or EMG onset were found. Methylphenidate had a general enhancing effect on accuracy but did not specifically reduce interference from the flanking stimuli. Methylphenidate had no effects on RT, N2 and P2 latency, P3 amplitude or latency, or EMG activity. The conclusion that methylphenidate did not influence response processes contrasts sharply with findings reported by authors using the Sternberg memory search task.

Identification of genes coding for the neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) has allowed rapid progress in the field of neuroscience. Determination of a high-affinity binding site for nicotine that correlates with the expression of mRNAs coding for nAChRs as well as protein expression is the best demonstration for localization of these receptors. Reconstitution of functional nAChRs in cells following cDNAs injection opened new ways to study these receptors in isolation. Furthermore, the recent linkage analysis between a form of autosomal dominant nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy (ADNFLE) with a mutation in the gene coding for the alpha 4 subunit of the neuronal nAChRs constituted the first demonstration that alteration of these receptors may be at the origin of epileptic discharges. Physiological and pharmacological studies of these mutated receptors revealed that the two mutations so far identified in ADNFLE patient cause a loss of function. In this work we shall review, in the light of the latest findings, properties of control and mutated receptors and evaluate how their alteration can be at the origin of nocturnal seizures.

Spinal cord rehabilitation has progressed enormously since World War II, and persons with spinal cord injuries now have long life expectancies. Research has recently concentrated on improvement of the quality of life, and on neural mechanisms of recovery. This article will explore some aspects of both of these areas. In the first section, the potential applications of sensory substitution systems for such functions as sex sensation and sensation from feet and from robotic hands will be examined. In the second section, the potential role of nonsynaptic diffusion neurotransmission (NDN) in neural reorganization after spinal cord injury will be considered. This article includes portions of previous publications and reports.




We recently reported that pharmacological manipulations of the dopamine system can produce more than a 4-fold increase in dye coupling between dopaminoceptive neurons in the adult rat striatal complex. During in vivo intracellular recordings, striatal neurons in control rats and in rats that had been treated with 6-hydroxydopamine were injected with either Lucifer yellow or Neurobiotin. Only rats that exhibited severe loss (i.e., larger than approximately 95%) of striatal dopamine terminals displayed a significant increase in the incidence of dye coupling between neurons in adult striatum. Moreover, this increased coupling was present only between neurons of the same morphological cell class, i.e., among clusters of spiny neurons or between aspiny neurons. Combining intracellular labeling of spiny neurons with parvalbumin immunocytochemistry demonstrated that coupling did not occur between anatomically adjacent neurons that comprised immunocytochemically and morphologically distinct cell classes. Therefore, gap junction conductance as reflected by dye coupling appears to undergo upregulation as a consequence of compromises in nigrostriatal and mesolimbic dopamine transmission.
Vertebrate motoneurons show considerable diversity in their soma locations, axonal trajectories and innervation targets. Results from studies of a variety of vertebrate species as well as fruit-flies are elucidating the mechanisms by which this diversity is generated. Motoneuron subpopulations appear to be defined by combinations of transcription factor genes expressed in distinct spatiotemporal patterns in both motoneuron progenitors and postmitotic motoneurons. Notochord-derived signals can induce motoneuron formation, paraxial-mesoderm-derived signals can pattern motoneuron subpopulations along the rostrocaudal body axis, and local signals within the neural tube can regulate the number and time at which motoneurons form. Additional, later signals can promote formation of proper central circuitry and motoneuron survival. The identification of the genes and signals responsible for regulating these processes should help to provide a more-detailed understanding of motoneuron patterning.
Little is known about the function of the retrosplenial cortex and until recently, there was no evidence that it had any involvement in emotional processes. Surprisingly, recent functional neuroimaging studies show that the retrosplenial cortex is consistently activated by emotionally salient words. A review of the functional neuroimaging literature reveals a previously overlooked pattern of observations: the retrosplenial cortex is the cortical region most consistently activated by emotionally salient stimuli. Evidence that this region is also involved in episodic memory suggests that it might have a role in the interaction between emotion and episodic memory. Recognition that the retrosplenial cortex has a prominent role in the processing of emotionally salient stimuli invites further studies to define its specific functions and its interactions with other emotion-related brain regions.

A number of methods to detect cerebral emboli and differentiate them from artefacts using Doppler ultrasound have been described in the literature. In most, Fourier transform-based (FT) spectral analysis has been used. The FT is not ideally suited to analysis of short-duration embolic signals due to an inherent trade-off between temporal and frequency resolution. An alternative approach that might be expected to describe embolic signals well is the wavelet transform. Wavelets are ideally suited for the analysis of sudden short-duration signal changes. Therefore, we have implemented a wavelet-based analysis and compared the results of this with a conventional FFT-based analysis. The temporal resolution, as measured by the half-width maximum, was significantly better for the continuous wavelet transform (CWT), mean (SD) 8.40 (8.82) ms, compared with the 128-point FFT, 12.92 (9.70) ms, and 64-point FFT, 10.80 (5.69) ms. Time localization of the CWT for the embolic signal was also significantly better than the FFT. The wavelet transform appears well suited to the analysis of embolic signals offering superior time resolution and time localization to the FFT.
The feedback pathway from HCs to cones forms the basis of the surround responses of the bipolar cells and is essential for the spectral opponency of horizontal cells. The nature of this feedback pathway is an issue of debate. Three hypothesis are presented in literature: (1) a GABAA-ergic feedback pathway; (2) a GABA-independent feedback pathway that modulates the Ca-current in cones; and (3) an electrical feedback pathway. In this review the evidence for the various pathways will be discussed. The conclusion is that the available evidence favors the hypothesis that feedback modulates the Ca-current in the cones in a GABA independent way. An alternative role of GABA in the outer plexiform layer is discussed and finally the functional consequences of the negative feedback pathway from horizontal cells to cones are presented.
Human subjects perceive two crossing bars, one in front of the other, when shown a cross with disparity added to its horizontal limbs, and they also perceive neon-color spreading when shown a stereoscopic Redies-Spillmann figure. It has thus been hypothesized that the human visual system follows the principle of generic image sampling in reconstructing 3-dimensional (3-D) surface structures. Here we examine whether monkeys also perceive these surface structures. The results indicate that monkeys, like humans, perceive two crossing bars and neon-color spreading and suggest that the principle of generic image sampling may also be applied to visual perception in monkeys.



A novel compound, SB-236057 (1'-ethyl-5-(2'-methyl-4'-(5-methyl-1,3,4-oxadiazol-2-yl)biphenyl- 4-carbonyl)-2,3,6,7-tetrahydrospiro[furo[2,3-f]indole-3,4'-piperid ine]) has been shown to have high affinity for human 5-hydroxytryptamine1B (5-HT1B) receptors (pKi = 8.2) and displays over 75 or more-fold selectivity for the human 5-HT1B receptor over other 5-HT receptors, including the human 5-HT1D receptor, and a range of other receptors, ion channels and enzymes. In functional studies using [35S]GTPgammaS binding, SB-236057 displayed negative intrinsic activity (pEC50 = 8.0) at human 5-HT1B receptors stably expressed in Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO) cells and caused a rightward shift of agonist concentration response curves consistent with competitive antagonism (pA2 = 8.9). SB-236057 potentiated [3H]5-HT release from electrically stimulated guinea pig or human cortical slices. SB-236057 also abolished the inhibitory effect of exogenously superfused 5-HT on electrically-stimulated release from slices of the guinea pig cortex. These studies using SB-236057 confirm that, in both the guinea pig and human cerebral cortex, the terminal 5-HT autoreceptor is of the 5-HT1B subtype.
Adenosine, by activating adenosine A2A receptors, seems to have a crucial function in regulating the activation of multiple receptors that affect neurotransmitter release and/or synaptic transmission, in particular receptors for neuropeptides (calcitonin gene related peptide (CGRP) and vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP)), and NMDA receptors, metabotropic glutamate receptors, nicotinic autofacilitatory receptors, dopamine receptors and adenosine A1 receptors. The manner in which these A2A receptors are involved in interactions with the receptors for other neurotransmitters and or neuromodulators opens novel avenues for the action of this 'omnipresent' nucleoside. Either by direct receptor-receptor modulation or by post-receptor mechanisms, adenosine, in its 'obsession' to protect cells from insults, uses as many receptor systems as possible to synchronize synaptic transmission, in order to exert what seems to be the 'destiny' of this nucleoside--protection of the nervous system.
Patients suffering from Parkinson's disease display severe and progressive deficits in motor behavior, predominantly as a consequence of the degeneration of dopaminergic neurons, located in the mesencephalon and projecting to striatal regions. The cause of Parkinson's disease is still an enigma. Consequently, the pharmacotherapy of Parkinson's disease consists of symptomatic treatment, with in particular L-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) and/or dopamine receptor agonists. These induce a dramatic initial improvement. However, serious problems gradually develop during long-term treatment. Therefore, a more rational, c.q. causal treatment is needed which requires the introduction of compounds ameliorating the disease process itself. The development of such compounds necessitates (1) more information on the etiopathogenesis, i.e., the cascade of events that ultimately leads to degeneration of the dopaminergic neurons, and (2) brain imaging methods, to estimate the extent of the degeneration of the dopaminergic neurons in the living patient. This is not only important for the early diagnosis, but will also allow to monitor the effectiveness of alleged neuroprotective compounds on a longitudinal base. In this paper, etiopathogenic mechanisms are highlighted along the line of the oxidative stress hypothesis and within this framework, attention is mainly focused on the putative role of glutathione, dopamine auto-oxidation and phase II biotransformation enzymes. Especially, drugs able to increase the activity of phase II biotransformation enzymes seem to elicit a broad-spectrum (neuro)protective response and look very promising leads for the development of neuroprotective treatment strategies in Parkinson's disease. New developments in brain imaging methods (single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and positron emission tomography (PET)) to visualize the integrity of the striatal dopaminergic neurons in humans are highlighted as well. Especially, the introduction of radioligands that bind selectively to the dopamine transporter seems to be a significant step forward for the early diagnosis of Parkinson's disease. Performing these brain imaging studies with fixed time intervals does not only create the possibility to follow the degeneration rate of the dopaminergic neurons in Parkinson's disease but also provides the opportunity to estimate therapeutic effects of putative neuroprotective agents in the individual patient.
Multiple pharmacological mechanisms have been identified over the last decade which can protect grey matter from ischaemic damage in experimental models. A large number of drugs targeted at neurotransmitter receptors and related mechanisms involved in ischaemic damage have advanced to clinical trials in stroke and head injury based on their proven ability to reduce grey matter damage in animal models. The outcome to date of the clinical trials of neuroprotective drugs has been disappointing. Although the failure to translate preclinical pharmacological insight into therapy is multifactorial, we propose that the failure to ameliorate ischaemic damage to white matter has been a major factor. The recent development of quantitative techniques to assess ischaemic damage to cellular elements in white matter, both axons and oligodendrocytes, allows rigorous evaluation of pharmacologic mechanisms which may protect white matter in ischaemia. Such pharmacological approaches provide therapeutic opportunities which are both additional or alternatives to those currently being evaluated in man.
Despite a remarkable structural diversity, most conventional antidepressants may be viewed as 'monoamine based', increasing the synaptic availability of serotonin, norepinephrine, and/or dopamine. Both preclinical and recent clinical studies indicate that compounds which reduce transmission at N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors are antidepressant. Moreover, chronic administration of antidepressants to mice alters both the mRNA levels encoding N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunits and radioligand binding to these receptors within circumscribed areas of the central nervous system. It is hypothesized that these two different treatment strategies converge to produce an identical functional endpoint: a region-specific dampening of NMDA receptor function. The pathways leading to this convergence provide a rudimentary framework for discovering novel antidepressants.
Neuropeptides are peptides which affect the nervous system. They are derived from large precursor molecules. These are converted to neurohormones, neuropeptides of the &quot;first generation&quot;, which can be further converted to neuropeptides of the &quot;second generation&quot;. This review is a brief survey of the nervous system effects of neuropeptides derived from pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) and the neurohypophyseal hormones. Processing of these molecules results in neuropeptides of the first and second generation which have similar, different, more selective or even opposite effects. Among those are effects on learning and memory processes, grooming, stretching and yawning, social, sexual and rewarded behavior, aging and nerve regeneration, thermoregulation, pain, sensitivity to seizures, and cardiovascular control. Results of animal studies as well as those of clinical studies suggest that these neuropeptides may be beneficial in aging, neuropathy, memory disturbances and schizophrenia. Most of these nervous system effects in animal studies were found before receptors in the nervous system for the various neuropeptides were detected. G-protein-coupled receptors for the neuropeptides of the &quot;first generation&quot;, i.e., melanocortin receptors, opioid receptors, and neurohypophyseal hormone receptors have been found, in contrast to the receptors for neuropeptides of the &quot;second generation&quot;, although there are indications that G-protein coupled receptors for these may be present in the brain.
The present study evaluated the validity of visual rating of medial temporal lobe atrophy on coronal magnetic resonance imaging scans in a population of demented and non-demented individuals. Medial temporal lobe atrophy in 194 subjects was visually rated from hard copies, using a 0-4 rating scale, and a comparison was made with the absolute volumes (ccm) of the medial temporal lobe as estimated with volumetry, using a stereological method. We found a highly significant correlation between the estimated and stereologically measured volumes. There was a 10-fold difference in time spent on rating medial temporal lobe atrophy (1-2 min) vs. time spent calculating the medial temporal lobe volume (10-12 min) on a single subject. The diagnostic accuracy of both methods showed that visual rating was more efficient than volumetry in differentiating Alzheimer's disease from control subjects, We conclude that visual rating is a reliable and fast method to estimate medial temporal lobe atrophy in demented subjects in a clinical setting.






Disturbance of the mesolimbic dopamine system has long been hypothesized for the underlying neurobiology of cocaine addiction. Recently, increased attention has been directed towards the opioid neuropeptide system, in particular dynorphin; inasmuch as opioid peptide-containing neurons are regulated by dopamine, these peptides have potent effects on mood and reward, and cocaine consistently modulates dynorphin activity. Our experiments have been directed towards characterizing the specific alterations of dopamine and dynorphin systems during different stages following cocaine administration, as well as assessing the contribution of nucleus accumbens and amygdala dopamine levels to cocaine-intake behavior. We have used the techniques of in vivo microdialysis to measure and manipulate extracellular concentrations of dopamine in animals that self-administer cocaine, and in situ hybridization to study mRNA expression levels of prodynorphin and dopamine receptors. It is clear from these studies that different stages of the cocaine use cycle are characterized by distinct patterns of prodynorphin and dopamine D1 mRNA expression levels. Moreover, cocaine-intake behavior is sensitive to very specific concentrations of dopamine in the nucleus accumbens as well as in the amygdala. Recently, the CART (cocaine and amphetamine-regulated transcript) peptide was proposed as a novel target for the actions of psychostimulant drugs. We have noted differences between male and female rats in the mesolimbic mRNA expression of CART that might be relevant for gender differences apparent in drug abuse.
The medial septum, diagonal bands, ventral pallidum, substantia innominata, globus pallidus, and internal capsule contain a heterogeneous population of neurons, including cholinergic and noncholinergic (mostly GABA containing), corticopetal projection neurons, and interneurons. This highly complex brain region, which constitutes a significant part of the basal forebrain has been implicated in attention, motivation, learning, as well as in a number of neuropsychiatric disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and schizophrenia. Part of the difficulty in understanding the functions of the basal forebrain, as well as the aberrant information-processing characteristics of these disease states lies in the fact that the organizational principles of this brain area remained largely elusive. On the basis of new anatomical data, it is proposed that a large part of the basal forebrain corticopetal system be organized into longitudinal bands. Considering the topographic organization of cortical afferents to different divisions of the prefrontal cortex and a similar topographic projection of these prefrontal areas to basal forebrain regions, it is suggested that several functionally segregated cortico-prefronto-basal forebrain-cortical circuits exist. It is envisaged that such specific &quot;triangular&quot; circuits could amplify selective attentional processing in posterior sensory cortical areas.
The projections of the cerebral cortex to the extended amygdala were studied in the rat using anterograde and retrograde tract-tracing techniques. Most cortical areas with strong projections to the extended amygdala preferentially targeted either the medial extended amygdala (including the medial amygdalar nucleus, ventromedial substantia innominata, and the medial part of the bed nucleus the stria terminalis) or the central extended amygdala (including the central amygdalar nucleus, dorsolateral substantia innominata, and the lateral part of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis). Some cortical areas, however, had equal projections to both medial and central portions. The main areas projecting preferentially to the medial extended amygdala were the ventral subiculum, infralimbic cortex, ventral agranular insular area, and the rostral part of the ventrolateral entorhinal area. The main areas projecting preferentially to the central extended amygdala were the prefrontal cortex, viscerosensory and somatosensory portions of the insular cortex, and the amygdalopiriform transitional area. It is suggested that these cortical inputs may be important for cognitive, mnemonic, and affective aspects of emotional and motivated behavior.
Interconnections among the ventral mesencephalon, nucleus accumbens, and ventral pallidum are critical in the initiation of adaptive behavioral responses to environmental stimuli. Within this circuit are two highly topographically organized subcircuits that are differentially interconnected with limbic and motor circuitry in the brain. However, there is not a great deal of anatomical interconnection between the limbic and motor subcircuits. A polysynaptic connection between the two subcircuits involves projections from the limbic ventral pallidum to the mediodorsal thalamus to the prefrontal cortex back to the motor regions of the nucleus accumbens. In the present report we show that this connection is critical in the expression of motor behavior elicited by opioids and the capacity of a rat to perform in a task requiring spatial working memory.
The ventral striatum, which prominently includes the nucleus accumbens (Acb), is a heterogeneous area. Within the Acb of rats, a peripherally located shell and a centrally situated core can be recognized that have different connectional, neurochemical, and functional identities. Although the Acb core resembles in many respects the dorsally adjacent caudate-putamen complex in its striatal character, the Acb shell has, in addition to striatal features, a more diverse array of neurochemical characteristics, and afferent and efferent connections. Inputs and outputs of the Acb, in particular of the shell, are inhomogeneously distributed, resulting in a mosaical arrangement of concentrations of afferent fibers and terminals and clusters of output neurons. To determine the precise relationships between the distributional patterns of various afferents (e.g., from the prefrontal cortex, the basal amygdaloid complex, the hippocampal formation, and the midline/intralaminar thalamic nuclei) and efferents to the ventral pallidum and mesencephalon, neuroanatomical anterograde and retrograde tracing experiments were carried out. The results of the double anterograde, double retrograde, and anterograde/retrograde tracing experiments indicate that various parts of the shell (dorsomedial, ventromedial, ventral, and lateral) and the core (medial and lateral) have different input-output characteristics. Furthermore, within these Acb regions, various populations of neurons can be identified, arranged in a cluster-like fashion, onto which specific sets of afferents converge and that project to particular output stations, distinct from the input-output relationships of neighboring, cluster-like neuronal populations. These results support the idea that the nucleus accumbens may consist of a collection of neuronal ensembles with different input-output relationships and, presumably, different functional characteristics.
Multiple retrograde and anterograde tracers were used to characterize a pathway that extends from the inferior colliculus to both the left and right cochlear nuclei via a synaptic relay in the superior olivary complex. Different fluorescent tracers were injected into the left and right cochlear nuclei to identify cells in the superior olivary complex that project bilaterally. Double-labeled cells were present in almost all periolivary nuclei; the majority were located in the ventral nucleus of the trapezoid body and the anteroventral periolivary nucleus. Because these two nuclei are targets of descending projections from the inferior colliculus, triple-labeling experiments were performed to determine whether collicular axons contact the periolivary cells that project to the cochlear nuclei. The results demonstrate that descending axons from the inferior colliculus contact periolivary cells that project to the cochlear nuclei, including periolivary cells that project bilaterally. This pathway could provide an opportunity for higher levels of the auditory system to influence activity bilaterally in the cochlear nuclei and thus to modulate the initial processing of acoustic information by the brain.
In yeast two-hybrid screens for proteins that bind to SNAP-25 and may be involved in exocytosis, we isolated a protein called EHSH1 (for EH domain/SH3 domain-containing protein). Cloning of full-length cDNAs revealed that EHSH1 is composed of an N-terminal region with two EH domains, a central region that is enriched in lysine, leucine, glutamate, arginine, and glutamine (KLERQ domain), and a C-terminal region comprised of five SH3 domains. The third SH3 domain is alternatively spliced. Data bank searches demonstrated that EHSH1 is very similar to Xenopus and human intersectins and to human SH3P17. In addition, we identified expressed sequence tags that encode a second isoform of EHSH1, called EHSH2. EHSH1 is abundantly expressed in brain and at lower levels in all other tissues tested. In binding studies, we found that the central KLERQ domain of EHSH1 binds to recombinant or native brain SNAP-25 and SNAP-23. The C-terminal SH3 domains, by contrast, quantitatively interact with dynamin, a protein involved in endocytosis. Dynamin strongly binds to the alternatively spliced central SH3 domain (SH3C) and the two C-terminal SH3 domains (SH3D and SH3E) but not to the N-terminal SH3 domains (SH3A and SH3B). Immunoprecipitations confirmed that both dynamin and SNAP-25 are complexed to EHSH1 in brain. Our data suggest that EHSH1/intersectin may be a novel adaptor protein that couples endocytic membrane traffic to exocytosis. The ability of multiple SH3 domains in EHSH1 to bind to dynamin suggests that EHSH1 can cluster several dynamin molecules in a manner that is regulated by alternative splicing.
The calcium-sensing receptor (CaR) is a G-protein-coupled receptor that displays 19-25% sequence identity to the gamma-aminobutyric acid type B (GABAB) and metabotropic glutamate (mGlu) receptors. All three groups of receptors have a large amino-terminal domain (ATD), which for the mGlu receptors has been shown to bind the endogenous agonist. To investigate whether the agonist-binding domain of the CaR also is located in the ATD, we constructed a chimeric receptor named Ca/1a consisting of the ATD of CaR and the seven transmembrane region and C terminus of mGlu1a. The Ca/1a receptor stimulated inositol phosphate production when exposed to the cationic agonists Ca2+, Mg2+, and Ba2+ in transiently transfected tsA cells (a transformed HEK 293 cell line). The pharmacological profile of Ca/1a (EC50 values of 3.3, 2.6, and 3.9 mM for these cations, respectively) was very similar to that of the wild-type CaR (EC50 values of 3.2, 4.7, and 4.1 mM, respectively). For the mGlu1a receptor, it has been shown that Ser-165 and Thr-188, which are located in the ATD, are involved in the agonist binding. An alignment of CaR with the mGlu receptors showed that these two amino acid residues have been conserved in CaR as Ser-147 and Ser-170, respectively. Each of these residues was mutated to alanines and tested pharmacologically using the endogenous agonist Ca2+. CaR-S147A showed an impaired function as compared with wild-type CaR both with respect to potency of Ca2+ (4-fold increase in EC50) and maximal response (79% of wild-type response). CaR-S170A showed no significant response to Ca2+ even at 50 mM concentration. In contrast, each of the two adjacent mutations, S169A and S171A, resulted in pharmacological profiles almost identical to that of the wild-type receptor. These data demonstrate that Ser-170 and to some extent Ser-147 are involved in the Ca2+ activation of the CaR, and taken together, our results reveal a close resemblance of the activation mechanism between the CaR and the mGlu receptors.
Multiple synaptotagmins are expressed in brain, but only synaptotagmins I and II have known functions in fast, synchronous Ca2+-triggered neurotransmitter release. Synaptotagmin III was proposed to regulate other aspects of synaptic vesicle exocytosis, particularly its slow component. Such a function predicts that synaptotagmin III should be an obligatory synaptic vesicle protein, as would also be anticipated from its high homology to synaptotagmins I and II. To test this hypothesis, we studied the distribution, developmental expression, and localization of synaptotagmin III and its closest homolog, synaptotagmin VI. We find that synaptotagmins III and VI are present in all brain regions in heterogeneous distributions and that their levels increase during development in parallel with synaptogenesis. Furthermore, we show by immunocytochemistry that synaptotagmin III is concentrated in synapses, as expected. Surprisingly, however, we observed that synaptotagmin III is highly enriched in synaptic plasma membranes but not in synaptic vesicles. Synaptotagmin VI was also found to be relatively excluded from synaptic vesicles. Our data suggest that synaptotagmins III and VI perform roles in neurons that are not linked to synaptic vesicle exocytosis but to other Ca2+-related nerve terminal events, indicating that the functions of synaptotagmins are more diverse than originally thought.
The mechanisms underlying epilepsy are largely unknown. Recent genetic, pharmacological and electrophysiological data indicate a significant, but poorly understood, role for voltage-dependent calcium channels (VDCCs). Since the contribution of ion channels to nerve function depends on their cell surface distribution, we hypothesized that epilepsy might alter VDCC surface densities. To test this idea we mapped the expression and distribution of fluorescent-labeled hippocampal N-type VDCCs (N-VDCCs) in an animal model of epilepsy, amygdala kindling. Image analysis demonstrated that kindling induced a 21-40% increase in N-VDCC expression in CA1 but not CA3. This increase occurred in the stratum radiatum and was twice as high in tissues contra- versus ipsi-lateral to the stimulating electrode. These data rationalize recent electrophysiology and argue that a persistent alteration in N-VDCC trafficking in dendrites or nerve termini may contribute to seizure-induced synaptic plasticity.

Molecular biology studies of olfaction have identified a multigene family of molecular receptors that are likely to be involved in odor transduction mechanisms. However, because previous functional data on peripheral coding were mainly collected from inferior vertebrates, it has been difficult to document the degree of specificity of odor interaction mechanisms. As a matter of fact, studies of the functional expression of olfactory receptors have not demonstrated the low or high specificity of olfactory receptors. In this study, the selectivity of olfactory receptor neurons was investigated in the rat at the cellular level under physiological conditions by unitary extracellular recordings. Individual olfactory receptor neurons were broadly responsive to qualitatively distinct odor compounds. We conclude that peripheral coding is based on activated arrays of olfactory receptor cells with overlapping tuning profiles.
dy/dy mice, which carry an unidentified mutation in the Lama2 gene, show dystrophic pathologies similar to those of human congenital muscular dystrophy. Laminin alpha2 deficiency induces apoptosis with DNA fragmentation. Caspases, which are involved in various types of cell death, are sequentially activated through a processing by other members of caspases. By using a cleavage site-directed antibody against caspase-3 that specifically reacts with the active form of caspase-3, we immunochemically demonstrated that caspase-3 is activated in the skeletal muscle fiber of dy/dy mice and that some of the activated caspase-3 muscle fibers are TUNEL-positive. Thus the lack of laminin alpha2 signals activates caspase-3, resulting in the apoptosis of muscle fibers.
We sought to investigate how individual differences in the regional patterns of cerebral blood flow (rCBF) relate to task performance during the perceptual matching of faces. We analyzed rCBF data obtained by PET and H2150 from nine young healthy, right-handed, adult males (mean age 29i3 years) using a statistical model of regional covariance, the Scaled Subprofile Model (SSM). SSM analysis performed on a voxel-basis for scan subtractions comparing face-matching and control tasks extracted two patterns whose subject expression in a multiple regression analysis was highly predictive of task accuracy (R2 = 0.87, p &lt; 0.002). The pattern reflecting this linear combination was principally characterized by higher rCBF in regions of bilateral occipital and occipitotemporal cortex, right orbitofrontal cortex, left thalamus, basal ganglia, midbrain, and cerebellum with relatively lower rCBF in anterior cingulate, regions in bilateral prefrontal and temporal cortex, right thalamus, and right inferior parietal cortex. The results indicate that individual subject differences in face matching performance are specifically associated with the functional interaction of cortical and subcortical brain regions previously implicated in aspects of object perception and visual attentional processing.
Psychophysical laws relate the intensity of a physical stimulus to its perceived magnitude. G.T. Fechner hypothesized 150 years ago that the psychophysical law can be derived by measuring intensity discrimination, but modern scientists favor a direct magnitude estimation approach and are still divided on whether and how intensity discrimination is related to sensation magnitude. This controversy is partially due to the uncertainty of the role of the sensory organ in the psychophysical law. Here we bypass the auditory sensory organ with electric stimulation of the human auditory nerve and find a close coupling between intensity discrimination and loudness functions in electric hearing. Our results support Fechner's hypothesis in principle but not the exact relationship from which he derived his logarithmic law.
Using guinea-pig isolated whole brain preparation in vitro, synaptic responses to electrical stimulation of auditory nerves were examined in intracellularly recorded and stained neurons of posteroventral and dorsal divisions of the cochlear nucleus. Stimulation of the contralateral auditory nerve evoked exclusively IPSPs in 70% of neurons, with amplitude of 2.3+/-1.2mV. Neurons of all major cell types were inhibited from the contralateral side. In the majority of responding cells (78%) IPSPs were induced at latencies of 3-9 ms suggesting di- and trisynaptic connections from contralateral auditory afferents or, respectively, mono- and disynaptic connections from the contralateral cochlear nucleus. Few cells responded with long-latency IPSPs (13.5-23ms), indicating involvement of polysynaptic pathways. These data demonstrate the existence of functional, direct and indirect inhibitory connections between the cochlear nuclei.
To investigate the neurobiological bases of visual hallucinations in dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), regional cerebral glucose metabolism was compared among three patient groups; DLB with visual hallucinations, DLB without visual hallucinations and Alzheimer's disease (AD) without visual hallucinations. The regional metabolism was significantly lower in both DLB groups than in the AD group in the primary visual area and the posterior temporal, parietal and lateral occipital association areas. The hypometabolism in the right posterior temporal and parietal areas was significantly milder in DLB with visual hallucinations than in DLB without hallucinations. The hypometabolism in the primary visual cortex and the relatively preserved metabolism in the right temporoparietal association cortices may be associated with the occurrence of visual hallucinations in DLB patients.
Head injury is a risk factor for development of the sporadic form of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and chronic anti-inflammatory treatment reduces the prevalence of AD. This study was undertaken to test the hypothesis that inflammatory reactions persist in the long term. Rats were subjected to moderate focal brain injury. The brains were analyzed after 3 months by immunohistochemistry. Persistent major histocompatibility complex (MHC)-II up-regulation, mononuclear phagocytes, interleukin (IL)-1-beta and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha synthesis (p &lt; 0.01) were detected in large areas of the ipsilateral hemisphere. The fact that a long-term inflammation is detectable following experimental brain injury corroborates the hypothesis that persistent post-traumatic inflammation is a possible factor in the causative chain of traumatically induced dementia.
Prolonged blockade of glutamate reuptake by the specific inhibitor of glutamate transporters, L-transpyrrolidine-2,4-dicarboxylate (PDC), produces a dramatic decrease in NMDA-induced neurotoxicity in cerebellar granule cell cultures, and is accompanied by a down-regulation of NMDA receptors. We now report that cultured cerebellar granule cells treated with 100 microM PDC for 1, 2, 4, 8, 16 and 24h, respectively, show increased AP-1 DNA-binding activity as measured by electrophoretic mobility shift assay. This effect was blocked by the NMDA receptor antagonist, CGP 37849, indicative of a pivotal role of NMDA receptors in the PDC-evoked enhancement of AP-1 DNA-binding. Our results suggest that AP-1 may be involved in the transcriptional regulation of neuronal adaptation initiated by prolonged inhibition of glutamate reuptake.
We have utilized the open field and learned helplessness (LH) models of psychological stress to determine whether a differential response to stress can affect the severity of adjuvant-induced arthritis (AA) within a single rat strain. In response to open field stress, the corticosterone response of the low emotivity rats was significantly lower than that of the high emotivity rats. In spite of the differential corticosterone response to stress, no significant difference was found in paw volumes between the AA high and low emotivity groups. In another study, rats were subjected to a learned LH paradigm and separated into two groups based on failed (LH+) or successful (LH-) avoidance. Plasma corticosterone levels in response to avoidable foot shock in the LH- rats were significantly greater than in the LH+ group. Following injection with adjuvant, paw inflammation occurred earlier and was more severe in the LH- rats compared to the LH+ group. These data show that rats with a greater tendency to avoid foot shock have more severe inflammation, despite having a greater corticosterone response to stress. We conclude that an increased corticosterone response to stress does not affect susceptibility to or severity of inflammation in AA. Indeed, in the LH model a more robust response to stress is associated with increased inflammation and earlier onset of the disease.
Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1) infects the brain and causes a progressive encephalopathy in 20 to 30% of infected children and adults called AIDS dementia complex. Evidence from in vitro and in vivo studies suggests a role for the viral envelope glycoprotein gp120, as a mediator of neurotoxicity. However, the site of interaction of gp120 with neurons and astrocytes to mediate neuronal death is still unknown. Recently the chemokine receptors, CCR5 and CXCR4, have been identified as co-receptors together with CD4 for HIV-1 entry into the target cells, suggesting a possible role for these receptors in the pathogenesis of the HIV-1 infection in the brain. Here we report the expression of CCR5 and CXCR4 in many different rat brain areas. We also found both receptors in cultured type I astrocytes demonstrating that glial cells may represent an important target for chemokines in vivo. Indeed, the functional capacity of CXCR4 receptor in astrocytes was demonstrated showing that SDF 1 alpha induced an increase of intracellular calcium concentration.
The formation of the past tense of verbs in English has been the focus of the debate concerning connectionist vs. symbolic accounts of language. Brain-injured patients differ with respect to whether they are more impaired in generating irregular past tenses (TAKE-TOOK) or past tenses for nonce verbs (WUG-WUGGED). Such dissociations have been taken as evidence for distinct &quot;rule&quot; and &quot;associative&quot; memory systems in morphology and against the connectionist approach in which a single system is used for all forms. We describe a simulation model in which these impairments arise from damage to phonological or semantic information, which have different effects on generalization and irregular forms, respectively. The results provide an account of the bases of impairments in verb morphology and show that these impairments can be explained within connectionist models that do not use rules or a separate mechanism for exceptions.
We have shown that cultured vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMC) and brain astroglial cells express I-receptors of the I2 subtype. While imidazoline agents are anti-proliferative in smooth muscle cells, they increase the expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) in astrocytes. Because increases in GFAP suppress the induction of calcium-independent, inducible nitric oxide synthase (NOS-2), we measured whether idazoxan and related imidazolines and agmatine would also suppress the expression of NOS-2. Cultured astrocytes and macrophages, RAW 264.7 cell line, were incubated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS, 1 microgram/ml) or cytokine mixture in the presence of 1-100 microM of idazoxan, agmatine, or other imidazoline agents. Idazoxan potently (IC50 10 microM) decreased the activity of NOS-2 in astrocytes, but was less potent in RAW 264.7 cells. By contrast, agmatine was most potent in RAW 264.7 cells (IC50, 10 microM) but less potent in glial cells and VSMC. Both idazoxan and agmatine decreased the activity of NOS-2 by reducing the levels of enzyme protein as measured by immunoblot and immunocytochemistry. No specific binding of [3H]-idazoxan was observed in RAW 264.7 cell membranes. We conclude that idazoxan, agmatine, and selected imidazoline agents inhibit the expression of NOS-2 and proliferation in primary glial cells and VSMC. While the antiproliferative actions appear mediated by I-receptors of the I2 type, the anti-inflammatory response is probably not mediated by I-receptors but possibly by direct actions on signal transduction enzymes.
The effects of the GABAA agonist, isoguvacine, on NMDA-induced burst firing of substantia nigra dopaminergic neurons were studied with intracellular and whole cell recordings in vitro. NMDA application caused the neurons to fire in rhythmic bursts. Although the NMDA-induced bursty firing pattern was insensitive to hyperpolarization by current injection, it was reversibly abolished by the selective GABAA agonist, isoguvacine. The block of the rhythmic burst pattern by isoguvacine application occurred regardless of whether the chloride reversal potential was hyperpolarizing (ECl-=-70 mV) or depolarizing (ECl-=-40 mV). In either case, the input resistance of the dopaminergic neurons was dramatically decreased by application of isoguvacine. It is concluded that GABAA receptor activation by isoguvacine disrupts NMDA receptor-mediated burst firing by increasing the input conductance and thereby shunting the effects of NMDA acting at a distally located generator of rhythmic burst firing.
We have here sought to cross-correlate the expression of immunoreactivities for several neuropeptides, nitric oxide synthase (NOS) and the growth associated protein GAP-43 in subpopulations of dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons tagged by the selective markers isolectin B4 and the neurofilament antibody RT97, selective for, respectively, subpopulations of small and large DRG neurons. By use of double- and triple-labeling immunohistochemistry, non-manipulated and sciatic nerve transected young adult rats as well as aged (30-months-old) rats were examined using a confocal microscope equipped with enhanced spectral separation. In young adult rats, the DRG neuron profiles could be divided into three subpopulations (B4 binding (B4+) approximately 50%; RT97-immunoreactive (RT97+) approximately 35%; B4-/RT97- approximately 15%). Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) is expressed in all three subpopulations. Galanin message-associated peptide (GMAP) colocalize with CGRP (100%) but is not expressed in RT97+ profiles. NOS is present in the RT97- subpopulations and frequently colocalize with CGRP (92%). GAP-43 is expressed in all three DRG subpopulations and colocalize with CGRP (88%), GMAP (38%) and/or NOS (22%). Only very small differences were seen among the young adult rats, implicating that the size of respective subpopulation as well as the expression pattern for neuropeptides, NOS and GAP-43 are fairly stable. Sciatic nerve transection reduced B4-binding but not RT97-like immunoreactivity. Distinct changes in the expression of neuropeptides, NOS and GAP-43 were evident in the DRG subpopulations and, furthermore, the regulatory changes were very similar among the lesioned animals. The relative size of the DRG subpopulations was unaffected by aging, while the expression of neuropeptides was altered showing similarities with the changes induced by axotomy in young adult rats.
The present experiments were conducted to determine the time course of synaptic dysfunction in the vulnerable regions of the post-ischemia hippocampus. Following transient cerebral ischemia, neurons in the CA1 subfield of the hippocampus undergo a delayed degeneration that develops about 48 h after reperfusion. We have shown previously that CA1 glutamatergic transmission is decreased in the CA1 subfield well before any morphological deterioration of the CA1 cells is visible under the light microscope. However, it is unknown whether a time window exists after insult in which attenuated synaptic activity may be restored to normal levels. We show here that evoked CA1 somatic population spikes and dendritic field potential responses decline progressively after reperfusion in the CA1 subfield, such that by 72 h post-insult, the challenged neurons are unable to elicit evoked excitatory responses. This attenuation of synaptic transmission was confined to the vulnerable neurons of the hippocampus, however, as the evoked responses in the dentate gyrus displayed amplitudes that were not significantly diminished from sham control after challenge. In brain slices obtained from 24 h post-ischemia rats with significantly impaired CA1 somatic responses, the application of 5 or 50 microM of the potassium channel blocker 4-aminopyridine (4-AP) restored the magnitude of the evoked excitatory response to control values. At 36 h post-ischemia, the decreased CA1 evoked responses could be partially improved by 4-AP, but not to control levels. Based upon these results, we conclude that the decreased CA1 synaptic activity at 24 h post-ischemia is potentially reversible, and suggest that 4-AP improves the CA1 synaptic responses at least in part by improving transmitter release at post-ischemia glutamatergic synapses.
Microinjection of vasopressin (VP) into the anterior hypothalamus (AH) of golden hamsters induces a rapid bout of flank marking, a stereotyped scent marking behavior used for olfactory communication. In rats, VP is colocalized with galanin (GAL) in several brain regions. GAL has been shown to antagonize the postsynaptic actions of other cosecreted neurotransmitters including acetylcholine and norepinephrine; however, the ability of GAL to modulate the postsynaptic actions of VP has not been assessed. Here, we report that coadministration of GAL can block VP-induced flank marking in golden hamsters in a dose dependent manner. These findings provide the first evidence in any species that GAL can antagonize the central actions of VP. Using slice binding and receptor autoradiography, we have identified GAL binding sites in the AH and two other regions implicated in flank marking behavior (the lateral septum and central grey). These findings raise the possibility that endogenous GAL may function as an inhibitory modulator of this stereotypic scent marking behavior.

Evidence was presented that provided support for linkage in a relatively broad telomeric region of chromosome 13. A significant overlap for positive markers linked to both bipolar disorder and schizophrenia occurred in this area.
This report describes linkage data presented at the Workshop on Chromosomes 11, 14, and 15 at the Sixth World Congress of Psychiatric Genetics in Bonn, Germany, together with relevant linkage data submitted to the chair and co-chair, and it is presented in the context of the previous literature concerning these chromosomes. We have attempted to collate current linkage data to provide a guide to potentially interesting findings on chromosomes 11, 14, and 15 for the phenotypes of bipolar disorder, schizophrenia, alcoholism, autism, and spelling and reading disability. We discuss methodological limitations and provide chromosome ideograms and tables summarizing findings to date. The most promising region currently appears to be 15q13-q15 in the region of the alpha 7 nicotinic receptor for the phenotype of schizophrenia (and, perhaps, more generally for functional psychosis). Additionally, 15q11-q13 in the region of GABRB3 holds interest as a potential site of a susceptibility gene for autism. Two regions on chromosome 11, 11p15 in the region of tyrosine hydroxylase gene and 11q22-q23 in the region of DRD2, continue to retain some interest for functional psychosis.
The regulation of striatal preprotachykinin (PPT) mRNA expression can be mediated through both dopamine (DA) D1 and serotonin (5-HT) 5-HT2A/2C receptors. In the present study, we used in situ hybridization to examine possible synergistic interactions between 5-HT2A/2C and D1 receptor-mediated regulation of striatal PPT mRNA levels in the rat depleted of DA with 6-hydroxydopamine. Acute administration of the 5-HT2A/2C receptor agonist DOI (2 mg/kg) significantly increased (+75%) PPT mRNA levels in the dorsal striatum. Acute administration of the D1 receptor agonist SKF-38393 (2 mg/kg) did not significantly alter PPT mRNA levels in the dorsal striatum. However, the co-administration of SKF-38393 and DOI produced a significant increase (+300%) in striatal PPT mRNA expression restricted to the periventricular region of the dorsal-medial striatum. This synergistic interaction was not observed in the remaining aspect of the dorsal striatum where DOI alone increased PPT mRNA expression. These data show that 5-HT2A/2C and D1 receptors can act in a synergistic manner to regulate striatal PPT mRNA in a subregion of the DA-depleted striatum.
Differential display PCR was used to identify genes regulated by mood stabilizer lithium in rat cerebral cortex. A differentially displayed lithium regulated gene fragment was isolated in rat cerebral cortex after chronic treatment with lithium (1.69 g/kg, p.o. ) for three weeks. A 1216-nucleotide cDNA for a novel lithium regulated gene (NLRG) was isolated from a rat brain cDNA library with RACE (rapid amplification of 5' cDNA end) PCR using a prime from the differentially displayed NLRG gene fragment. The deduced protein sequence was 321 amino acids long, and shows a significant homology with yeast nitrogen permease regulator 2 (NPR2). NLRG expression induced by lithium was confirmed by Northern and slot blot analysis in rat cerebral cortex and neuroblastomaxglioma NG108-15 cells, respectively. In situ hybridization revealed that chronic treatment with lithium increased NLRG gene expression in frontal cortex and hippocampus, but not in striatum, hypothalamus and thalamus regions of rat brain. These results suggest a novel target for lithium which may be relevant to its mechanism of action.
Previous studies in our laboratory have shown that the mood stabilizers, lithium and valproate (VPA), regulate the transcription factors, cyclic AMP responsive element binding protein (CREB), c-Fos and c-Jun, differentially in cultured human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells. Here, we confirm these findings in rat brain and further study the brain-regional effects of these drugs using immunohistochemistry. We found that although chronic treatment with LiCl or VPA did not change the expression of c-Fos and c-Jun, acute treatment with either drugs increased c-Fos expression but not c-Jun expression in CA1 and CA3 regions of hippocampus. Chronic treatment with LiCl, but not VPA, decreased CREB phosphorylation in rat cerebral cortex and hippocampus. These results suggest that lithium and VPA may act on different pathways to bring about their long-term prophylactic effects on bipolar disorder (BD). The regulation of CREB phosphorylation may be relevant to lithium effect. VPA, which is also effective in BD, may be linked to other pathways.
Our recent studies revealed that brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) rapidly enhances tyrosine phosphorylation and dephosphorylation of the NMDA receptor subunit, NR2B, in the postsynaptic density (PSD), potentially regulating synaptic plasticity. To explore the molecular mechanisms underlying synaptic NR2B signaling, we examined the protein tyrosine phosphatase, PTP1D; BDNF reportedly increases association of PTP1D with tyrosine phosphorylated proteins in cortical neurons and PC 12 cells. We now report that PTP1D is an intrinsic component of the rat cerebrocortical PSD, based on Western blot analysis using specific anti-PTP1D antibodies. In addition, NR2B was co-immunoprecipitated with PTP1D using anti-NR2B antibodies or anti-PTP1D antibodies, indicating physical association of the subunit with PTP1D. Moreover, treatment of the purified PSD with BDNF for 5 min elicited a two-fold increase in the association of NR2B with PTP1D. The BDNF action appeared to be specific, since nerve growth factor, another member of the neurotrophin gene family, did not alter the association. Finally, an overlay assay revealed that BDNF caused a two-fold increase in binding of blotted PSD NR2B proteins to PTP1D-SH2 domains, revealing molecular mechanisms mediating the PTP1D-NR2B binding. Taken together, our results raise the possibility that PTP1D participates in BDNF-mediated NR2B signaling cascades at the postsynaptic site, thereby regulating synaptic plasticity.
The Rho family GTPases are involved in a variety of cellular events by changing the organization of actin cytoskeletal networks in response to extracellular signals. However, it is not clearly known how their activities are spatially and temporally regulated. Here we report the identification of a novel guanine nucleotide exchange factor for Rac1, STEF, which is related in overall amino acid sequence and modular structure to mouse Tiam1 and Drosophila SIF proteins. STEF protein contains two pleckstrin homology domains, a PDZ domain and a Dbl homology domain. The in vitro assay showed that STEF protein specifically enhanced the dissociation of GDP from Rac1 but not that from either RhoA or Cdc42. Expression of a truncated STEF protein in culture cells induced membrane ruffling with altered actin localization, which implies that this protein also activates Rac1 in vivo. The stef transcript was observed in restricted parts of mice, including cartilaginous tissues and the cortical plate of the central nervous system during embryogenesis. These findings suggested that STEF protein participates in the control of cellular events in several developing tissues, possibly changing the actin cytoskeletal network by activating Rac1.
Postsynaptic density-95 (PSD-95/SAP-90) is a member of the membrane-associated guanylate kinase (MAGUK) family of proteins that assemble protein complexes at synapses and other cell junctions. MAGUKs comprise multiple protein-protein interaction motifs including PDZ, SH3 and guanylate kinase (GK) domains, and these binding sites mediate the scaffolding function of MAGUK proteins. Synaptic binding partners for the PDZ and GK domains of PSD-95 have been identified, but the role of the SH3 domain remains elusive. We now report that the SH3 domain of PSD-95 mediates a specific interaction with the GK domain. The GK domain lacks a poly-proline motif that typically binds to SH3 domains; instead, SH3/GK binding is a bi-domain interaction that requires both intact motifs. Although isolated SH3 and GK domains can bind in trans, experiments with intact PSD-95 molecules indicate that intramolecular SH3/GK binding dominates and prevents intermolecular associations. SH3/GK binding is conserved in the related Drosophila MAGUK protein DLG but is not detectable for Caenorhabditis elegans LIN-2. Many previously identified genetic mutations of MAGUKs in invertebrates occur in the SH3 or GK domains, and all of these mutations disrupt intramolecular SH3/GK binding.
Various sigma (sigma) ligands including (+)-pentazocine stimulated [35S]GTPgammaS binding in synaptic membranes from the mouse cerebellum. The (+)-pentazocine-stimulated [35S]GTPgammaS binding was blocked by the treatment of membranes with pertussis toxin (PTX), but completely recovered by the reconstitution of PTX-treated membranes with recombinant Gi1, but not with GoA. These findings suggest that metabotropic sigma receptors are selectively coupled to Gi1 protein.
Volunteers were required to estimate 10-s intervals after 2.5 min exposures to each of six different patterns of complex magnetic fields. The approximately 10 microT fields were applied sequentially through eight solenoids that were arranged circumcerebrally (every 45 deg) at the level of the temporoorbital plane. There were three rates of change for the circumcerebral rotations whose durations ranged between about 200 and 2000 ms. Successive additions of 20 ms of the complex fields during the counterclockwise circumcerebral rotation at each solenoid distended subjective time most effectively. Subjective time of the group who received these counterclockwise rotations was about 3 s longer than the group who received the clockwise rotations (explaining approximately 50% of the variance). The results are consistent with the model that the temporal binding for experience, most likely a feature of the rostrocaudal waves recreated every approximately 20 ms over the cerebral cortices, can be modified by weak magnetic fields whose spatial direction and temporal complexity are designed to interact with this process.


We have compared (using the same series of experimental samples) the levels of activity of a comprehensive range of cytoplasmic, lysosomal and matrix protease types, together with the levels of free radical-induced protein damage (determined as protein carbonyl derivative) in synovial fluid from rheumatoid (RA) and osteoarthritis (OA) cases. Many protease types showed significantly increased activity (typically by a factor of 2-3-fold) in RA compared to OA cases. Protease activity levels (including those enzyme types putatively involved in the immune response, such as dipeptidyl aminopeptidase IV) in plasma were not significantly different in RA and control cases. The level of free radical induced damage to synovial fluid proteins was approximately 2-fold higher in RA compared to OA, although there was no significant difference in total antioxidant status in synovial fluid or plasma between RA, OA or control cases. We conclude from the above that activation of proteolytic enzymes and free radicals (occurring specifically within synovial tissues) are likely to be of equal potential importance as protein damaging agents in the pathogenesis of RA, and the development of novel therapeutic strategies for the latter disorder should include both protease inhibitory and free radical scavenging elements. In addition, the protease inhibitory element should be designed to inhibit the action of a broad range of enzymic mechanistic types (cysteine, serine, metallo proteinases and peptidases).
Superior cervical ganglia of postnatal mice with a targeted disruption of the gene for neurotrophin-3 have 50% fewer neurons than those of wild-type mice. In culture, neurotrophin-3 increases the survival of proliferating sympathetic precursors. Both precursor death (W. ElShamy et al., 1996, Development 122, 491-500) and, more recently, neuronal death (S. Wyatt et al., 1997, EMBO J. 16, 3115-3123) have been described in mice lacking NT-3. Consistent with the second report, we found that, in vivo, neurogenesis and precursor survival were unaffected by the absence of neurotrophin-3 but neuronal survival was compromised so that only 50% of the normal number of neurons survived to birth. At the time of neuron loss, neurotrophin-3 expression, assayed with a lacZ reporter, was detected in sympathetic target tissues and blood vessels, including those along which sympathetic axons grow, suggesting it may act as a retrograde neurotrophic factor, similar to nerve growth factor. To explore this possibility, we compared neuron loss in neurotrophin-3-deficient mice with that in nerve growth factor-deficient mice and found that neuronal losses occurred at approximately the same time in both mutants, but were less severe in mice lacking neurotrophin-3. Eliminating one or both neurotrophin-3 alleles in mice that lack nerve growth factor does not further reduce sympathetic neuron number in the superior cervical ganglion at E17.5 but does alter axon outgrowth and decrease salivary gland innervation. Taken together these results suggest that neurotrophin-3 is required for survival of some sympathetic neurons that also require nerve growth factor.
The proliferative responses of a human CD4+ T cell clone 29.15.2, reactive with a self-K-ras-derived peptide (3EYKLVVVGAGGVGKSALT20), were tested using a set of X9 combinatorial peptide libraries containing the flanking residues (EYKLVXXXXXXXXXSALT, where X indicates random amino acids). Certain peptide libraries, such as EYKLVXXXXXX&lt;cmd UNL&gt;M&lt;cmd /UNL&gt; XXSALT and EYKLVXXXXXXX&lt;cmd UNL&gt;H&lt;cmd /UNL&gt; XSALT, stimulated a marked proliferation of 29.15.2. However, no combinations of substitutions tested, such as EYKLVXXXXXX&lt;cmd UNL&gt;MH&lt;cmd /UNL&gt; XSALT, exhibited additive effects. We subsequently synthesized peptides with degenerate sequences (a mixture of 480 species), where each position is composed of the wild-type (wt) residue or of amino acids that induced the proliferation of 29.15.2, in positional scanning. Interestingly, one fraction of degenerate peptides, separated by reverse-phase HPLC, stimulated much higher proliferation than did the wt; in addition, the retention time of this fraction was distinct from that of the wt. Mass spectrometry analysis of this fraction and flanking fractions identified five peptide species that exhibit strong signals in a manner that parallels the antigenic activity. Finally, 17 candidate peptide sequences were deduced from mass spectrometry and hydrophobicity scoring results, of which two peptides (EYKLVVVGAGG&lt;cmd UNL&gt;ML&lt;cmd /UNL&gt; KSALT and EYKLVVVGAGG&lt;cmd UNL&gt;MI&lt;cmd /UNL&gt; KSALT) did induce 52- and 61-fold stronger proliferation, respectively, compared with the wt. These findings indicate that: 1) synthetic peptides that carry &quot;the best&quot; residue substitution at each position of combinatorial peptide libraries do not always exhibit superagonism, and 2) such a drawback can be overcome with the use of mass spectrometry. This approach provides new perspectives for the accurate and efficient identification of peptide superagonists.
The fetal and even the young brain possesses a considerable degree of plasticity. The plasticity and rate of neurogenesis in the adult brain is much less pronounced. The present study was conducted to investigate whether housing conditions affect neurogenesis, learning, and memory in adult rats. Three-month-old rats housed either in isolation or in an enriched environment were injected intraperitoneally with bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) to detect proliferation among progenitor cells and to follow their fate in the dentate gyrus. The rats were sacrificed either 1 day or 4 weeks after BrdU injections. This experimental paradigm allows for discrimination between proliferative effects and survival effects on the newborn progenitors elicited by different housing conditions. The number of newborn cells in the dentate gyrus was not altered 1 day after BrdU injections. In contrast, the number of surviving progenitors 1 month after BrdU injections was markedly increased in animals housed in an enriched environment. The relative ratio of neurogenesis and gliogenesis was not affected by environmental conditions, as estimated by double-labeling immunofluorescence staining with antibodies against BrdU and either the neuronal marker calbindin D28k or the glial marker GFAp, resulting in a net increase in neurogenesis in animals housed in an enriched environment. Furthermore, we show that adult rats housed in an enriched environment show improved performance in a spatial learning test. The results suggest that environmental cues can enhance neurogenesis in the adult hippocampal region, which is associated with improved spatial memory.
Previous studies suggested that magnetization transfer ratio (MTR) histograms are highly correlated with other magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) measures and can be used as a reliable method for quantifying overall disease burden in multiple sclerosis (MS). However, the relative influence of burden and severity of macroscopic MS lesions and degree of brain atrophy on various MTR histogram parameters has not yet been fully elucidated. Aim of the present study was to investigate which MRI measure best predicts the values of MTR histogram parameters in MS patients. Forty-two MS patients underwent brain dual-echo. T1-weighted and magnetization transfer imaging (MTI) MRI scans. Hyperintense lesion load (LL) on proton density (PD)-weighted and hypointense LL on T1-weighted images were measured using a local thresholding technique. A measure of brain atrophy was derived from T1-weighted images by computing the volume of brain tissue segmented from a slab of five consecutive slices rostral to the velum interpositum. On MTI scans, MTR histogram analysis was performed for the whole brain and average lesion MTR was also calculated. PD-weighted LL, T1-weighted LL and brain volume were significantly correlated with several MTI-derived measures. When a multivariate analysis was performed, brain volume alone significantly predicted the values of all the MTR histogram-derived measures (P values ranged from 0.003 to 0.0002). The ratio between hypointense T1-weighted and hyperintense PD-weighted LL significantly predicted average lesion MTR (P&lt;0.05). Our results confirm that MTR can be used as a reliable method to assess both the overall disease burden and the individual lesion intrinsic nature in MS patients. The significant influence of brain atrophy on MTR histogram parameters supports the concept that this method also provides information on the loss of brain parenchyma in MS.
Microangiopathy is an important complication of diabetes mellitus and neovascularity is a feature of human diabetic retinopathy. The objective of this work was to evaluate numbers, areas and size distributions of whole nerve, endoneurial and dorsal root ganglia perfused microvessels in a detailed fashion using unfixed tissues from rats with experimental diabetes. Experimental neuropathy was studied in male Sprague-Dawley rats 12 weeks after streptozotocin or citrate buffer injection. Electrophysiological recordings of sciatic-tibial motor and caudal sensory fibers identified conduction slowing in diabetes indicating neuropathy. Diabetics had a rise in the numbers of whole nerve microvessels and endoneurial microvessels with associated rises in vessel densities and total vessel luminal areas. Increased vessel numbers in 15-30 microm diameter size ranges were particularly prominent. There was a rise in summed vascular areas in diabetics but the mean luminal area of vessels was not increased. Similar, but not significant trends were observed in a selective analysis of endoneurial vessels alone. In contrast, dorsal root ganglia microvessels were not increased in number. Early experimental diabetic neuropathy is associated with increased numbers of microvessels supplying the peripheral nerve trunk, likely representing neovascularity.
Central sensitization, the hyperexcitability of spinal processing that often accompanies peripheral injury, is a major component of many persistent pain states. Here we report that the neurotrophin, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), is a modulator of excitability within the spinal cord and contributes to the mechanism of central sensitization. BDNF, localized in primary sensory neuron cell bodies and central terminals, potentiates nociceptive spinal reflex responses in an in vitro spinal cord preparation and induces c-fos expression in dorsal horn neurons. NMDA receptor-mediated responses, known as a major contributor to central sensitization, were significantly enhanced by exogenous BDNF. Systemic NGF treatment, a procedure that mimics peripheral inflammatory states, raises BDNF levels in sensory neurons and increases nociceptive spinal reflex excitability. This increased central excitability is reduced by trkB-IgG, a BDNF &quot;antagonist.&quot; We also show directly that inflammatory pain-related behavior depends on BDNF release in vivo. Thus behavioral nociceptive responses induced by intraplantar formalin and by intraplantar carageenan are significantly attenuated by trkB-IgG. Hence BDNF is appropriately localized and regulated in inflammatory states and is sufficient and necessary for the expression of central sensitization in the spinal cord. We propose that BDNF may function as a modulator of central sensitization in pathological states, and our results suggest that pharmacological antagonism of BDNF may prove an effective and novel analgesic strategy for the treatment of persistent inflammatory pain states.
Receptive fields (RFs) of cells in the middle temporal area (MT or V5) of monkeys will often encompass multiple objects under normal image viewing. We therefore have studied how multiple moving stimuli interact when presented within and near the RF of single MT cells. We used moving Gabor function stimuli, &lt;1 degrees in spatial extent and approximately 100 msec in duration, presented on a grid of possible locations over the RF of the cell. Responses to these stimuli were typically robust, and their small spatial and temporal extent allowed detailed mapping of RFs and of interactions between stimuli. The responses to pairs of such stimuli were compared against the responses to the same stimuli presented singly. The responses were substantially less than the sum of the responses to the component stimuli and were well described by a power-law summation model with divisive inhibition. Such divisive inhibition is a key component of recently proposed &quot;normalization&quot; models of cortical physiology and is presumed to arise from lateral interconnections within a region. One open question is whether the normalization occurs only once in primary visual cortex or multiple times in different cortical areas. We addressed this question by exploring the spatial extent over which one stimulus would divide the response to another and found effective normalization from stimuli quite far removed from the RF center. This supports models under which normalization occurs both in MT and in earlier stages.
Using immunocytochemistry and ELISA, we investigated the production of interleukin (IL)-1beta in the rat hippocampus after focal application of kainic acid inducing electroencephalographic (EEG) seizures and CA3 neuronal cell loss. Next, we studied whether EEG seizures per se induced IL-1beta and microglia changes in the hippocampus using bicuculline as a nonexcitotoxic convulsant agent. Finally, to address the functional role of this cytokine, we measured the effect of human recombinant (hr)IL-1beta on seizure activity as one marker of the response to kainate. Three and 24 hr after unilateral intrahippocampal application of 0.19 nmol of kainate, IL-1beta immunoreactivity was enhanced in glia in the injected and the contralateral hippocampi. At 24 hr, IL-1beta concentration increased by 16-fold (p &lt; 0.01) in the injected hippocampus. Reactive microglia was enhanced with a pattern similar to IL-1beta immunoreactivity. Intrahippocampal application of 0.77 nmol of bicuculline methiodide, which induces EEG seizures but not cell loss, enhanced IL-1beta immunoreactivity and microglia, although to a less extent and for a shorter time compared with kainate. One nanogram of (hr)IL-1beta intrahippocampally injected 10 min before kainate enhanced by 226% the time spent in seizures (p &lt; 0.01). This effect was blocked by coinjection of 1 microgram (hr)IL-1beta receptor antagonist or 0.1 ng of 3-((+)-2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)-propyl-1-phosphonate, selective antagonists of IL-1beta and NMDA receptors, respectively. Thus, convulsant and/or excitotoxic stimuli increase the production of IL-1beta in microglia-like cells in the hippocampus. In addition, exogenous application of IL-1beta prolongs kainate-induced hippocampal EEG seizures by enhancing glutamatergic neurotransmission.
The striatum integrates limbic and neocortical inputs to regulate sensorimotor and psychomotor behaviors. This function is dependent on the segregation of striatal projection neurons into anatomical and functional components, such as the striosome and matrix compartments. In the present study the association of ephrin-A cell surface ligands and EphA receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs) with the organization of these compartments was determined in postnatal rats. Ephrin-A1 and ephrin-A4 selectively bind to EphA receptors on neurons restricted to the matrix compartment. Binding is absent from the striosomes, which were identified by mu-opioid receptor immunostaining. In contrast, ephrin-A2, ephrin-A3, and ephrin-A5 exhibit a different mosaic binding pattern that appears to define a subset of matrix neurons. In situ hybridization for EphA RTKs reveals that the two different ligand binding patterns strictly match the mRNA expression patterns of EphA4 and EphA7. Ligand-receptor binding assays indicate that ephrin-A1 and ephrin-A4 selectively bind EphA4 but not EphA7 in the lysates of striatal tissue. Conversely, ephrin-A2, ephrin-A3, and ephrin-A5 bind EphA7 but not EphA4. These observations implicate selective interactions between ephrin-A molecules and EphA RTKs as potential mechanisms for regulating the compartmental organization of the striatum.
The role of enkephalin and the opioid receptors in modulating GABA release within the rat globus pallidus (GP) was investigated using whole-cell patch recordings made from visually identified neurons. Two major GP neuronal subtypes were classified on the basis of intrinsic membrane properties, action potential characteristics, the presence of the anomalous inward rectifier (Ih), and anode break depolarizations. The mu opioid receptor agonist [D-Ala2-N-Me-Phe4-Glycol5]-enkephalin (DAMGO) (1 microM) reduced GABAA receptor-mediated IPSCs evoked by stimulation within the striatum. DAMGO also increased paired-pulse facilitation, indicative of presynaptic mu opioid receptor modulation of striatopallidal input. In contrast, the delta opioid agonist D-Pen-[D-Pen2, 5]-enkephalin (DPDPE) (1 microM) was without effect. IPSCs evoked by stimulation within the GP were depressed by application of [methionine 5']-enkephalin (met-enkephalin) (30 microM). Met-enkephalin also reduced the frequency, but not the amplitude, of miniature IPSCs (mIPSCs) and increased paired-pulse facilitation of evoked IPSCs, indicative of a presynaptic action. Both DAMGO and DPDPE reduced evoked IPSCs and the frequency, but not amplitude, of mIPSCs. However, spontaneous action potential-driven IPSCs were reduced in frequency by met-enkephalin and DAMGO, whereas DPDPE was without effect. Overall, these results indicate that presynaptic mu opioid receptors are located on striatopallidal terminals and pallidopallidal terminals of spontaneously firing GP neurons, whereas presynaptic delta opioid receptors are preferentially located on terminals of quiescent GP cells. Enkephalin, acting at both of these receptor subtypes, serves to reduce GABA release in the GP and may therefore act as an adaptive mechanism, maintaining the inhibitory function of the GP in basal ganglia circuitry.
Recent studies have suggested that protein phosphorylation of glutamate receptors may play an important role in synaptic transmission. Specifically, the phosphorylation of AMPA receptors has been implicated in cellular models of synaptic plasticity. The phosphorylation of the glutamate receptor 1 (GluR1) subunit of AMPA receptors by protein kinase A (PKA), protein kinase C (PKC), and Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) has been characterized extensively. Phosphorylation of this subunit occurs exclusively on the intracellular C-terminal domain. However, the GluR1 subunit C terminus shows low homology to the other AMPA receptor subunits. In this paper we characterized the phosphorylation of AMPA receptor subunit GluR4, using site-specific mutagenesis and biochemical techniques. We found that GluR4 is phosphorylated on serine 842 within the C-terminal domain in vitro and in vivo. Serine 842 is phosphorylated by PKA, PKC, and CaMKII in vitro and is phosphorylated in transfected cells by PKA. Two-dimensional phosphopeptide analysis indicates that serine 842 is the major phosphorylation site on GluR4. In addition, we identified threonine 830 as a potential PKC phosphorylation site. These results suggest that GluR4, which is the most rapidly desensitizing AMPA receptor subunit, may be modulated by phosphorylation.
Alternative splicing of the avian trkB receptor generates an extracellular deletion (ED) isoform missing 11 amino acids from the neurotrophin-binding domain of the full-length (FL) receptor. When expressed in fibroblasts, the ED isoform exhibited restricted neurotrophin specificity compared with that of the FL receptor. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), neurotrophin-3 (NT-3), and neurotrophin-4 (NT-4) activated the FL receptor, as determined by tyrosine phosphorylation. However, only BDNF was capable of significant activation of the ED isoform, although to a reduced level. Because positively charged residues in NT-3 are important for binding to trkB, two negatively charged aspartate residues within the 11 amino acid motif of FL trkB were mutated to examine the role of electrostatic interactions on ligand binding. As found for the ED isoform, the FL mutated receptor displayed a similar loss of NT-3- and NT-4-mediated activation, in addition to a diminished responsiveness to BDNF. Because of these profound effects on ligand specificity, reverse transcription-PCR was used to understand the expression of the FL and ED receptor isoforms at the level of single neurons. The predominant expression pattern of either FL or ED isoforms in single embryonic DRG neurons establishes the existence of two subpopulations exhibiting differential responsiveness to trkB ligands, indicating that regulated splicing of the extracellular domain of trkB may serve as a mechanism to restrict neuronal responsiveness to the neurotrophins.
Reperfusion of ischemic tissue causes an immediate increase in DNA damage, including base lesions and strand breaks. Damage is reversible in surviving regions indicating that repair mechanisms are operable. DNA strand breaks are repaired by nonhomologous end joining in mammalian cells. This process requires DNA-dependent protein kinase (DNA-PK), composed of heterodimeric Ku antigen and a 460,000 Da catalytic subunit (DNA-PKcs). In this study, a rabbit spinal cord model of reversible ischemia was used to demonstrate the effect of acute CNS injury on the activity and expression of DNA-dependent protein kinase. The DNA-binding activity of Ku antigen, analyzed by an electrophoretic mobility shift assay, increased during reperfusion after a short ischemic insult (15 min of occlusion), from which the animals recover neurological function. After severe ischemic injury (60 min of occlusion) and reperfusion that results in permanent paraplegia, Ku DNA binding was reduced. Protein levels of the DNA-PK components-Ku70, Ku80, and DNA-PKcs-were monitored by immunoblotting. After 60 min of occlusion, the amount of DNA-PKcs and the enzyme poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) decreased with the same time course during reperfusion. Concurrently 150 and 120 kDa fragments were immunostained by an anti-DNA-PKcs monoclonal antibody. This antibody was shown to cross-react with alpha-fodrin breakdown products. The 120 kDa fodrin peptide is associated with caspase-3 activation during apoptosis. Both DNA-PKcs and PARP are also substrates for caspase-3-like activities. The results are consistent with a model in which after a short ischemic insult, DNA repair proteins such as DNA-PK are activated. After severe ischemic injury, DNA damage overwhelms repair capabilities, and cell death programs are initiated.
Mutation of a conserved Asp (D98) in the rat serotonin (5HT) transporter (rSERT) to Glu (D98E) led to decreased 5HT transport capacity, diminished coupling to extracellular Na+ and Cl-, and a selective loss of antagonist potencies (cocaine, imipramine, and citalopram but not paroxetine or mazindol) with no change in 5HT Km value. D98E, which extends the acidic side chain by one carbon, affected the rank-order potency of substrate analogs for inhibition of 5HT transport, selectively increasing the potency of two analogs with shorter alkylamine side chains, gramine, and dihydroxybenzylamine. D98E also increased the efficacy of gramine relative to 5HT for inducing substrate-activated currents in Xenopus laevis oocytes, but these currents were noticeably dependent on extracellular medium acidification. I-V profiles for substrate-independent and -dependent currents indicated that the mutation selectively impacts ion permeation coupled to 5HT occupancy. The ability of the D98E mutant to modulate selective aspects of substrate recognition, to perturb ion dependence as well as modify substrate-induced currents, suggests that transmembrane domain I plays a critical role in defining the permeation pathway of biogenic amine transporters.
We have examined the functional characteristics of microglia in an environment where the cytoarchitecture of the brain is preserved. Using organotypic slice culture under serum-free conditions, microglia initially demonstrated a rounded morphology but after 10 days in vitro (DIV), microglia in the slice were highly branched. Stimulation of the microglia at 4 DIV with phorbol ester significantly increased the number of cells stained with nitroblue tetrazolium, an indicator of superoxide anion production, compared to non-stimulated conditions. At 10 DIV, superoxide anion production was significantly less than that seen at 4 DIV and no increase in production was seen with phorbol ester stimulation. Phagocytosis of fluorescent latex beads and chemotaxis of microglia in response to zymosan activated serum was also reduced at 10 DIV compared to 4 DIV. These experiments indicate that microglia at 4 DIV in tissue slice culture have functional characteristics that resemble microglia in primary culture. However, prolonged culture of the slices results in a return of the microglia to a ramified and functionally down-regulated state, reminiscent of an &quot;in vivo&quot;-like environment. The organotypic slice culture, thus, provides a useful model system to I examine the interactions of microglia with neurons and other glia in the normal and injured brain.
Pigment epithelial-derived factor (PEDF) has been shown to be a survival factor for cerebellar granule neurons. Here we investigated the ability of PEDF to enhance the survival of hippocampal neurons in culture, and to protect these neurons against acute glutamate toxicity. Hippocampal neurons prepared from 1- to 3-day postnatal rat brain were cultured for either 7 or 14 days in vitro (DIV). At 14 DIV, neurons were only slightly protected (13% +/- 4%) against 50 microM glutamate toxicity when treated with 1 microg/ml of PEDF for 3 successive days before glutamate exposure as measured by lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) release. In comparison, basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) at 10 ng/ml for the same treatment period protected 58% +/- 8% of the neurons against glutamate. Using quantitative image analysis of digitized micrographs, we found that the average size of neurons in young, developing hippocampal cultures (7 DIV), was greatly decreased by treatment with 50 microM glutamate. Treatment for up to 5 successive days with 1 microg/ml of PEDF before glutamate addition dramatically increased the average hippocampal neuron soma size, compared to cells treated with glutamate alone. Thus, PEDF may promote the growth of hippocampal neurons, and, if added to developing hippocampal neurons, can also protect these cells from subsequent injury, such as the excitotoxicity of glutamate.
1. The involvement of P2 purinoceptors in chemosensory function in the ventrolateral regions of the medulla oblongata was investigated in the anaesthetized rat. We have investigated the effect of antagonizing, or desensitizing, P2 receptors in the retrofacial area of the ventrolateral medulla on factors modifying respiratory activity. 2. Bilateral microinjection of suramin (50 nl, 0.02 M), a P2 purinoceptor antagonist, into the retrofacial area in the artificially ventilated rat reduced resting phrenic nerve discharge. It also markedly affected the response of the phrenic nerve to increases in arterial CO2. Under conditions of hyperoxic, hypocapnic apnoea, the mean threshold for inducing phrenic nerve activity was raised significantly (from an end-tidal CO2 of 2.5 % to 4.5 %, n = 9). 3. In addition, the slope of the respiratory response curve to increases in CO2 was reduced after suramin. A similar effect was observed after desensitization of certain P2X receptors with alphabeta-methyleneATP. As arterial levels of O2 were greater than 100 mmHg, and an equivalent pattern of response was observed in sino-aortically denervated and vagotomized animals, we believe any contribution of the peripheral chemoreceptors to be minimal. 4. Our data suggest that respiratory neurones within the retrofacial area (Botzinger complex) represent part of the central site of action of CO2 on respiration. Moreover, our observations lead us to suggest that CO2-evoked changes in respiration are mediated at least in part by P2X purinoceptors.
1. The macroscopic and single channel gating characteristics of connexin (Cx) 50 gap junction channels between pairs of N2A neuroblastoma cells transfected with mouse Cx50 DNA were investigated using the dual whole-cell voltage clamp technique. 2. The macroscopic junctional current (Ij) of Cx50-transfected cells decayed exponentially with time in response to transjunctional voltage (Vj) steps (time constant (tau) of approximately 4 s at a Vj of 30-40 mV and 100-200 ms at a Vj of 80-100 mV). The steady-state junctional conductance (gj) was well described by a two-state Boltzmann equation. The half-inactivation voltage (V0), the ratio of minimal to maximal gj (gmin/gmax) and the equivalent gating charge were +/- 37 mV, 0.21 and 4, respectively. 3. The conductance of single Cx50 channels measured using patch pipettes containing 130 mM CsCl was 220 +/- 13.1 pS (12 cell pairs). A prominent residual or subconductance state corresponding to 43 +/- 4. 2 pS (10 cell pairs) was also observed at large Vj s. 4. The relationship between channel open probability (Po) and Vj was well described by a Boltzmann relationship with parameters similar to those obtained for macroscopic gj (V0 = 34 mV, gating charge = 4.25, maximum P= 0.98). The ensemble average of single channel currents at Vj = 50 mV declined in a monoexponential manner (tau = 905 ms), a value similar to the decline of the macroscopic Ij of Cx50 channels at the same voltage. 5. Ion substitution experiments indicated that Cx50 channels have a lower permeability to anions than to cations (transjunctional conductance of KCl vs. potassium glutamate (gammaj, KCl/gammaj,KGlut), 1.2; 6 cell pairs). 6. The results have important implications for understanding the role of connexins in tissues where Cx50 is a major gap junction component, including the lens.
D-bifunctional protein, which is a newly recognized peroxisomal enzyme (D-3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydratase/D-3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase), demonstrates a characteristic development of pattern in the human brain. At 13 gestational weeks (GW), D-bifunctional protein immunoreactivity first appeared in the brain. Each neuron exhibited increased immunoreactivity along with growth in size as age increased and size with age. Glial cells in the white matter showed immunoreactivity after 30 GW. On the other hand, the L-bifunctional protein immunoreactivity was reported in neurons from 23 or 25 GW and in the white matter from 12 or 14 GW. Because of polymicrogyria in conditions such as infantile Refsum disease and infantile adrenoleukodystrophy, peroxisomal enzymes are thought to play an important role in neuronal migration and possibly myelination. D-bifunctional protein may be relevant to neuronal migration and L-bifunctional protein may be involved in axonal growth and synaptic development. This study is designed to access the ontogeny of D-bifunctional protein in the human brain.
Previously, we reported that activation of muscarinic receptors modulates N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-mediated synaptic transmission in auditory neocortex [Aramakis et al. (1997a) Exp Brain Res 113:484-496]. Here, we describe the muscarinic subtypes responsible for these modulatory effects, and a role for G-proteins and intracellular messengers. The muscarinic agonist oxotremorine-M (oxo-M), at 25-100 microM, produced a long-lasting enhancement of NMDA-induced membrane depolarizations. We examined the postsynaptic G-protein dependence of the modulatory effects of oxo-M with the use of the G-protein activator GTP gamma S and the nonhydrolyzable GDP analog GDP beta S. Intracellular infusion of GTP gamma S mimicked the facilitating actions of oxo-M. After obtaining the whole-cell recording configuration, there was a gradual, time-dependent increase of the NMDA receptor-mediated slow-EPSP, and of iontophoretic NMDA-induced membrane depolarizations. In contrast, intracellular infusion of either GDP beta S or the IP3 receptor antagonist heparin prevented oxo-M mediated enhancement of NMDA depolarizations. The muscarinic receptor involved in enhancement of NMDA iontophoretic responses is likely the M1 receptor, because the increase was prevented by pirenzepine, but not the M2 antagonists methoctramine or AF-DX 116. Oxo-M also reduced the amplitude of the pharmacologically isolated slow-EPSP, and this effect was blocked by M2 antagonists. Thus, muscarinic-mediated enhancement of NMDA responses involves activation of M1 receptors, leading to the engagement of a postsynaptic G-protein and subsequent IP3 receptor activity.
alpha-Dystroglycan (alpha-DG) is a laminin-binding protein and member of a glycoprotein complex associated with dystrophin that has been implicated in the etiology of several muscular dystrophies. To study the function of DG, C2 myoblasts were transfected stably with an antisense DG expression construct. Myotubes from two resulting clones (11F and 11E) had at least a 40-50% and 80-90% reduction, respectively, in alpha-DG but normal or near normal levels of alpha-sarcoglycan, integrin beta1 subunit, acetylcholine receptors (AChRs), and muscle-specific kinase (MuSK) when compared with parental C2 cells or three clones (11A, 9B, and 10C) which went through the same transfection and selection procedures but expressed normal levels of alpha-DG. Antisense DG-expressing myoblasts proliferate at the same rate as parental C2 cells and differentiate into myotubes, however, a gradual loss of cells was observed in these cultures. This loss correlates with increased apoptosis as indicated by greater numbers of nuclei with condensed chromatin and more nuclei labeled by the TUNEL method. Moreover, there was no sign of increased membrane permeability to Trypan blue as would be expected with necrosis. Unlike parental C2 myotubes, 11F and 11E myotubes had very little laminin (LN) on their surfaces; LN instead tended to accumulate on the substratum between myotubes. Exogenous LN bound to C2 myotubes and was redistributed into plaques along with alpha-DG on their surfaces but far fewer LN/alpha-DG plaques were seen after LN addition to 11F or 11E myotubes. These results suggest that alpha-DG is a functional LN receptor in situ which is required for deposition of LN on the cell and, further, implicate alpha-DG in the maintenance of myotube viability.
The neural circuitry within sensory cortex determines its functional properties, and different solutions have evolved for integrating the activity that arises from an array of sensory inputs to cortex. In rodent, circumscribed receptors, such as whiskers, are represented in somatic sensory (S-I) cortex in islands of cells in layer IV called &quot;barrels&quot; surrounded by narrow channels that separate barrels called &quot;septa.&quot; These two cortical domains were previously shown to receive sensory inputs through parallel subcortical pathways. Here, by using small biocytin injections, we demonstrate that distinct intrinsic and corticocortical circuitries arise from barrel and septal columns. The intracortical S-I projections originating from barrel columns are rather short-ranged, terminating for the most part within the far boundaries of the most immediate neighboring barrel columns, whereas corticocortical projections reach the second somatosensory (S-II) cortex. In contrast, the intrinsic projections arising from septal columns extend two to three barrels' distance along the row of whisker representation, producing terminals preferentially in other septal columns. Septal corticocortical projections terminate in the dysgranular cortex anterior to E-row barrels and in the posteromedial parietal cortex in addition to S-II. Whereas layer IV barrels are largely isolated from lateral connections, septa are the main conduits of intracortical projections arising from neighboring barrel and septal columns. These results indicate that the two subcortical pathways from whiskers to cortex continue as two distinct partially segregated pathways in cortex.
Removal of cholinergic septal inputs using the immunotoxin 192 IgG-saporin reduces the number of interneurons containing neuropeptide Y (NPY)-immunoreactivity in the rat dentate gyrus by approximately 30% [Milner et al., J. Comp. Neurol. 386 (1997) 48-59]. The goal of the present study was to determine if NPY-containing neurons that survive deafferentation have any distinguishing morphological and/or microenvironmental features. For this, 2 or 24 weeks after intracerebroventricular injections of 192 IgG-saporin, NPY-immunolabeled neurons in the hilus of the dentate gyrus were examined by electron microscopy. Neither the size nor morphological traits of NPY-labeled perikaryal or dendritic profiles from lesioned compared to control rats at either time-point differed significantly. However, at both time-points, NPY-containing somatal profiles from immunolesioned rats compared to controls had a reduced percentage of their plasmalemmal surface apposed to unmyelinated axon profiles and an increased percentage of their surface occupied by astrocytic profiles. At the 24 week time-point, these differences were statistically significant. The primary contributing factor for these changes was the absence of a subgroup of NPY-labeled somatal profiles in lesioned rats compared to controls which was: (a) distinguished by frequent appositions of unmyelinated axons (from 15 to 35%) to the plasmalemmal surface; and (b) located primarily in the central hilar region. Unlike NPY-containing somata, changes associated with NPY-labeled dendritic profiles were exclusively related to associated presynaptic profiles at the 24 week time-point. In lesioned rats compared to controls at this time-point, NPY-containing dendritic profiles had a concurrent increase in the percentage of the plasmalemmal surface occupied by active zones and the size of terminals contacting them. The present results combined with those of our earlier study suggest that septal cholinergic deafferentation results in: (a) the loss of a distinct subpopulation of hippocampal NPY-containing neurons; and (b) an increase in total active zone area suggesting a strengthening of synaptic connections to the surviving population of NPY-containing neurons in the long term.
To investigate within one study regenerative capacities of dopaminergic axons and cell bodies, short and long term recovery of behavioral and biochemical impairments following a bilateral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesion of the ventral tegmental area (VTA)-nucleus accumbens (NAc) pathway was investigated in rats. Novelty-induced motility, presynaptic functions and the levels of dopamine (DA) and its metabolites were reduced when cell bodies in the VTA or axons in the NAc were lesioned. Spontaneous recovery of the behavioral deficit was observed 4 weeks after a lesion of the NAc. Subsequently presynaptic functions recovered as shown by the reappearance of low dose apomorphine (50 mg/kg)-induced hypomotility, normalization of [(3)H]dopamine uptake, reinnervation of the NAc and normalization of levels of DA and its metabolites within 24 weeks. In contrast, after a VTA lesion no recovery was observed during 48 weeks, neither from hypomotility and loss of the low dose apomorphine response nor from decreased [(3)H]dopamine uptake and levels of DA in the NAc. Short term postsynaptic supersensitivity (hypermotility upon a higher dose of apomorphine (125 mg/kg)) was present 1 and 4 weeks after the lesion but not thereafter. A near total absence of dopaminergic neurons in the VTA and axons in the NAc were found 24 weeks postlesion. Treatment with the ACTH-(4-9) analog ORG 2766 (10 mg/kg s.c., 6 days once daily) facilitated recurrence of presynaptic functions after a lesion of axons but had no short or long term effect when cell bodies were lesioned. These findings substantiate the postulate that the peptide facilitates recovery processes.
The intravenous injection of cocaine has been reported to reliably reinstate (prime) the self-administration of cocaine in animals. We report herein that there is a cocaine priming threshold in rats trained to self-administer cocaine. The cocaine priming threshold is defined as the minimum level of cocaine in the body that will reinstate maintained cocaine self-administration. The mean cocaine priming threshold in rats was calculated to be approximately 186 to 212 microg kg(-1). Therefore, any injection, series of injections or continuous infusion that result in a level of cocaine equivalent to that produced by a single intravenous injection of this range of doses, will reinstate cocaine self-administration. The priming threshold was significantly increased by the D(1) dopamine receptor antagonist SCH23390 (10 microg kg(-1), i.v.), indicating a role for dopaminergic neurotransmission. The priming threshold, but not the inter-injection interval of maintained self-administration, was increased following withdrawal from a 7-day infusion of D-amphetamine. In addition, there was no correlation between the cocaine priming threshold and the inter-injection intervals of maintained cocaine self-administration. Therefore, the mechanisms underlying the reinstatement of cocaine self-administration are distinct from the mechanisms underlying the maintenance of cocaine self-administration and they are differentially regulated. It is possible that the priming threshold may represent a distinct target for medications development.
Melanocortin peptides regulate a variety of physiological processes. Five melanocortin receptors (MC-R) have been cloned and the MC3R and MC4R are the main brain MC receptors. The aim of this study was to identify structural requirements in both ligand and receptor that determine gamma-melanocyte-stimulating hormone (MSH) selectivity for the MC3R versus the MC4R. Substitution of Asp10 in [Nle4]Lys-gamma2-MSH for Gly10 from [Nle4]alpha-MSH, increased both activity and affinity for the MC4R while the MC3R remained unaffected. Analysis of chimeric MC3R/MC4Rs and mutant MC4Rs showed that Tyr268 of the MC4R mainly determined the low affinity for [Nle4]Lys-gamma2-MSH. The data demonstrate that Asp10 determines selectivity for the MC3R, however, not through direct side chain interactions, but probably by influencing how the melanocortin core sequence is presented to the receptor-binding pocket. This is supported by mutagenesis of Tyr268 to Ile in the MC4R which increased affinity and activity for [Nle4]Lys-gamma2-MSH, but decreased affinity for two peptides with constrained cyclic structure of the melanocortin core sequence, MT-II and [D-Tyr4]MT-II, that also displayed lower affinity for the MC3R. This study provides a general concept for peptide receptor selectivity, in which the major determinant for a selective receptor interaction is the conformational presentation of the core sequence in related peptides to the receptor-binding pocket.
In vertebrates, synapsins constitute a family of synaptic vesicle proteins encoded by three genes. Synapsins contain a central ATP-binding domain, the C-domain, that is highly homologous between synapsins and evolutionarily conserved in invertebrates. The crystal structure of the C-domain from synapsin I revealed that it constitutes a large (&gt;300 amino acids), independently folded domain that forms a tight dimer with or without bound ATP. We now show that the C-domains of all synapsins form homodimers, and that in addition, C-domains from different synapsins associate into heterodimers. This conclusion is based on four findings: 1) in yeast two-hybrid screens with full-length synapsin IIa as a bait, the most frequently isolated prey cDNAs encoded the C-domain of synapsins; 2) quantitative yeast two-hybrid protein-protein binding assays demonstrated pairwise strong interactions between all synapsins; 3) immunoprecipitations from transfected COS cells confirmed that synapsin II heteromultimerizes with synapsins I and III in intact cells, and similar results were obtained with bacterial expression systems; and 4) quantification of the synapsin III level in synapsin I/II double knockout mice showed that the level of synapsin III is decreased by 50%, indicating that heteromultimerization of synapsin III with synapsins I or II occurs in vivo and is required for protein stabilization. These data suggest that synapsins coat the surface of synaptic vesicles as homo- and heterodimers in which the C-domains of the various subunits have distinct regulatory properties and are flanked by variable C-terminal sequences. The data also imply that synapsin III does not compensate for the loss of synapsins I and II in the double knockout mice.
Catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) exists as two isoenzymes, a membrane-bound form (MB-COMT) and a soluble form (S-COMT), with different roles in the metabolism of catecholamines and other catechol compounds. This report documents an HPLC assay for separate estimation of S-COMT and MB-COMT activity and examines activities of the two isoenzymes among different rat tissues and in human and rat erythrocytes. Activities of MB-COMT and S-COMT varied widely among tissues. There were higher activities of S-COMT than MB-COMT in all tissues except the adrenal medulla where MB-COMT was the predominant isoenzyme, consistent with the importance of this tissue and MB-COMT for the O-methylation of catecholamines. MB-COMT and S-COMT in rat and human erythrocytes showed divergent levels and patterns of activity. The assay represents a rapid and accurate method for quantifying MB-COMT and S-COMT in various tissues and examining the relative roles of COMT isoenzymes in the metabolism of catechol compounds in health and disease.
In the present study we report the effect of corticosterone in the regulation of hippocampal muscarinic acetylcholine receptor immunoreactivity (mAChR-ir) expression in rats. Adrenalectomy (ADX) or a single injection of a mineralocorticoid antagonist RU-28318 (1.0 mg/100 g body weight (b.w.)) in adrenally intact rats 24 h prior to sacrifice revealed an increased mAChR-ir in hippocampal CA1 and CA3 areas. Corticosterone replacement (100 microg/100 g b.w.) prevented the increase in mAChR-ir of ADX animals. However, glucocorticoid receptor antagonist (RU38486) treatment in adrenally intact rats failed to affect the mAChR immunolabeling. These results point to a modulation of muscarinic receptors by corticosterone that is predominantly mediated by the mineralocorticoid receptor.
Putrescine, the diamine precursor for polyamine biosynthesis, is a ubiquitous molecule normally present at low concentration in quiescent cells. During development, or after traumatic stress, putrescine concentrations are greatly increased. Here we describe the localization of putrescine by fluorescence immunocytochemistry in primary cultures of embryonic rat brain using specific antibodies. Antibodies against putrescine conjugated to keyhole limpet hemocyanin (KLH) were produced in rabbits. The antisera were adsorbed on KLH affinity columns and the specificity of the antibodies was assessed by inhibition enzyme-linked immunoassays (ELISA). The cellular localization paralleled the temporal sequence of appearance and disappearance of the different cell types in these mixed cultures. During the first 3 days after plating the antibodies were localized mainly in neurons. As the neurons disappeared the localization was mainly in the growing astroglia, and then, as astroglia reached confluence between 10 and 14 days in vitro, labeled astroglia were diminished in numbers while the number of labeled microglia was greatly increased. The subcellular localization was prominent in the perinuclear region of the cytoplasm. The results indicate that antibodies to KLH-conjugated putrescine can be used for immunocytochemical studies of changes in putrescine concentrations during development and after traumatic injuries.
Gene-targeted mice lacking the L-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate (AMPA) receptor subunit GluR-A exhibited normal development, life expectancy, and fine structure of neuronal dendrites and synapses. In hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons, GluR-A-/- mice showed a reduction in functional AMPA receptors, with the remaining receptors preferentially targeted to synapses. Thus, the CA1 soma-patch currents were strongly reduced, but glutamatergic synaptic currents were unaltered; and evoked dendritic and spinous Ca2+ transients, Ca2+-dependent gene activation, and hippocampal field potentials were as in the wild type. In adult GluR-A-/- mice, associative long-term potentiation (LTP) was absent in CA3 to CA1 synapses, but spatial learning in the water maze was not impaired. The results suggest that CA1 hippocampal LTP is controlled by the number or subunit composition of AMPA receptors and show a dichotomy between LTP in CA1 and acquisition of spatial memory.
Changes in neural responses based on spatial attention have been demonstrated in many areas of visual cortex, indicating that the neural correlate of attention is an enhanced response to stimuli at an attended location and reduced responses to stimuli elsewhere. Here we demonstrate non-spatial, feature-based attentional modulation of visual motion processing, and show that attention increases the gain of direction-selective neurons in visual cortical area MT without narrowing the direction-tuning curves. These findings place important constraints on the neural mechanisms of attention and we propose to unify the effects of spatial location, direction of motion and other features of the attended stimuli in a 'feature similarity gain model' of attention.

Connexin43 (cx43) mRNA and protein were quantified in seven brain regions using RNase protection assays and Western blotting from postnatal day 3, 10, and 17, and adult Sprague-Dawley rats. Increases in cx43 mRNA abundance preceded strong increases in cx43 protein in the cerebral cortex, hippocampus, hypothalamus, and striatum, whereas smaller postnatal increases were seen in the cerebellum, brain stem, and olfactory bulbs.
In addition to the well known expression of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) immunoreactivity in primary afferent fibers in the dorsal horn and in motoneurons, this study has demonstrated, in rat, transient CGRP immunoreactivity in fine caliber varicose axons throughout the ventral horn and in a group of neuron cell bodies in the medial ventral horn. This was first observed at post-natal day 7 (P7) and had disappeared by P21. Physiological studies in chick embryonic spinal cord have shown that CGRP modulates spontaneous activity during development [Carr, P.A., Wenner, P., 1998. Calcitonin gene-related peptide and effects on spontaneous activity in embryonic chick spinal cord. Dev. Brain Res. 106, 47-55]. Neural activity increases post-natally in rat where it may play a role in refinement of sensorimotor synapses. This activity may also be modulated by CGRP.
The intraplantar injection of kyotorphin (Kyo) elicited nociceptive flexor responses in mice in a dose-dependent manner between 0.1 and 100 fmol. These actions were completely blocked by substance P (NK1) receptor antagonists, such as CP-96345 and CP-99994, but not by their inactive derivatives, CP-96344 or CP-100263, nor by MEN-10376, an NK2 antagonist. Kyo-responses were also abolished by the local pretreatment with capsaicin to deplete substance P from nociceptor endings, and in tachykinin 1 gene K/O mice. These findings suggest that Kyo indirectly stimulates nociceptor endings through a local substance P release.
The Notch family of proteins consists of transmembrane receptors that play a critical role in the determination of cell fate. Genetic studies in Caenorhabditis elegans suggest that the presenilin proteins, which are associated with familial Alzheimer's disease, regulate Notch signaling. Here we show that proteolytic release of the Notch-1 intracellular domain (NICD), an essential step in the activation of Notch signaling, is markedly reduced in presenilin-1 (PS1)-deficient cells and is restored by PS1 expression. Nuclear translocation of the NICD is also markedly reduced in PS1-deficient cells, resulting in reduced transcriptional activation. Mutations in PS1 that are associated with familial Alzheimer's disease impair the ability of PS1 to induce proteolytic release of the NICD and nuclear translocation of the cleaved protein. These results suggest that PS1 plays a central role in the proteolytic activation of the Notch-1-signaling pathway and that this function is impaired by pathogenic PS1 mutations. Thus, dysregulation of proteolytic function may underlie the mechanism by which presenilin mutations cause Alzheimer's disease.
Previously, we demonstrated that continuous exposure of rats to cold (5 degrees C) for 2-3 weeks potentiates the increase in extracellular norepinephrine in the medial prefrontal cortex produced by acute tail shock. In the present study, we used in vivo microdialysis to examine whether this sensitization of evoked norepinephrine release also occurs in the medial prefrontal cortex following exposure to other chronic stress protocols. Rats exposed to 30 min of intermittent foot shock (0.6 mA) each day for 14 days, did not exhibit a greater increase in extracellular norepinephrine in response to acute tail shock. To determine whether this discrepancy between cold exposure and foot shock might be related to differences in the nature or the pattern of exposure to the chronic stressor, we also examined the effect of intermittent exposure to cold or continuous exposure to a foot shock protocol on tail shock-evoked norepinephrine release. Sensitized norepinephrine release did not develop following either intermittent exposure to cold (5 degrees C; 4 h/day for 14 days) or continuous exposure to a foot shock protocol (0.6 mA trains at random intervals 24 h/day for 14 days), suggesting that both the nature of the stressor as well as the pattern of exposure to the chronic stressor play a role in the development of sensitized norepinephrine release.
The mechanisms by which synapse assembly and maturation are orchestrated during development are largely unknown. We used P-element mutagenesis and a larval anatomical screen to isolate mutants in which synapse structure was altered. Here, we describe a mutation isolated with this screen, branch point disrupted (bpd), in which both synapse specificity and synapse morphology were altered. Synaptic terminals in bpd mutants developed abnormally, forming multiple branch points, overgrowing to inappropriate neighboring muscles, and establishing aberrant folding of postsynaptic membranes. Ultrastructural characterization of synaptic boutons in bpd demonstrated abnormal layering of the postsynaptic specialization or subsynaptic reticulum (SSR). Genetic and molecular analyses revealed that bpd is an allele of mod(mdg4), a gene coding for a protein with many similarities to transcription factors, which has been implicated in the regulation of chromatin insulation. Our results suggest that mod(mdg4) may regulate a gene(s) essential to normal synapse formation.
CuCl2, ZnCl2 and NiCl2, but not CdCl2 or CoCl2, induced transmitter release from superfused rat hippocampal and striatal synaptosomes preloaded with, respectively, [3H]noradrenaline and [3H]dopamine. Cu2+ was the most potent and effective, acting in a concentration- (0.1-300 microM) and time-dependent (peak effect occurring at 2-3 min) manner. The amount of Cu2+-induced release over a 5 min period is similar to that induced by depolarization with high KCl or the K+ channel blocker 4-aminopyridine. However, the time course of the Cu2+-induced release is slower and the effect of Cu2+ is not reversed by washout. Cu2+-induced catecholamine release requires extracellular calcium (Ca2+) and is inhibited by the Ca2+ channel blocker Cd2+, and in the case of noradrenaline, by the voltage-gated Na+ channel blocker tetrodotoxin. The ability of Cu2+ to induce massive Ca2+-dependent transmitter release from brain catecholaminergic nerve terminals may contribute to the neuropathological processes associated with Cu2+ toxicity in Wilson's disease.
The effects of the corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) receptor antagonists, alpha-helical CRF-(9-41), [D-Phe12,Nle21,38, CalphaMe-Leu37]humanCRF-(12-41) (D-PheCRF-(12-41)) and astressin ([cyclo(30-33)[D-Phe12,Nle21,38,Glu30,Lys33]h umanCRF-(12-41) upon hypophagic and motor activation response to human/ratCRF (h/rCRF) were investigated. All three antagonists (100 microg intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.)) blocked the effects of h/rCRF (1 microg i.c.v.) upon food intake and body weight change in food-deprived rats. In contrast, alpha-helical CRF-(9-41) and astressin (both at 100 microg i.c.v., but not lower doses), but not D-PheCRF-(12-41) (up to 100 microg i.c.v.), blocked h/rCRF (0.3 microg i.c.v.)-induced motor activation in rats in a familiar environment. The ability of D-PheCRF-(12-41) to block CRF-induced hypophagia, but not motor activation, suggests a selective action of this antagonist upon the behavioural effects of centrally administered h/rCRF.
To clarify the effects of natural otolith stimulation on muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) in humans, eight male volunteers were seated in a linear accelerator (sled) during the recording of MSNA from the tibial nerve with microneurography, and also the recording of electrocardiogram, blood pressure measured with a Finapres device and thoracic impedance during movement. Sinusoidal linear acceleration with peak values of +/-0.10, 0.15 and 0.20 Gx were applied to the sitting subjects in the anteroposterior direction. Both the total activity and the burst rate of MSNA decreased during the sinusoidal linear acceleration, whereas the average heart rate, thoracic impedance and mean arterial pressure did not change significantly. These results suggest that moderate sinusoidal linear acceleration in the anteroposterior direction may suppress MSNA in humans.
The N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDAR) produce physiologically functional channels for enhanced excitatory neurotransmission when they exist as heteromeric complexes containing the NMDAR1 subunit combined with NMDAR2. We examined the expressions of NMDAR1 and 2A/B protein in the kainic acid induced rat chronic epileptic hippocampus. Immunoreactivities of both NMDAR1 and NDMAR2A/B were increased in the inner molecular layer of the dentate gyrus, while they were decreased in the hilar and CA3/4 pyramidal zones. Immunoblot analysis demonstrated that the overall level of NMDAR1-2A/B coassembly was increased in the whole hippocampus. These results indicate that the increase of the NMDAR1-2A/B complex in the inner molecular layer is a significant cellular mechanism that contributes to focal hyperexcitability in rat chronic hippocampal epilepsy.
Stem cells of the adult central nervous system are the focus of a great deal of attention because of their potential for making new neural cells. A recent study has claimed to identify their in vivo location, but this important issue remains controversial.
(RS)-5-Amino-4-(4-chlorophenyl)pentanoic acid (10) and the R-form (11) and S-form (12) of (RS)-5-amino-3-(4-chlorophenyl)pentanoic acid, which are homologues of the 4-aminobutanoic acidB (GABAB) receptor agonist (RS)-4-amino-3-(4-chlorophenyl)butanoic acid (baclofen), were synthesized. Compound 10 was synthesized by homologation at the carboxyl end of baclofen using a seven-step reaction sequence. N-Boc-protected (4R, 5R)-4-(4-chlorophenyl)-5-hydroxy-2-piperidone (18) was deoxygenated via a modified Barton-McCombie reaction to give N-Boc-protected (R)-4-(4-chlorophenyl)-2-piperidone (20), which was ring opened and deprotected to give 11.HCl. The corresponding S-enantiomer, 12.HCl, was synthesized analogously from the 4S,5S-enantiomer of 18, compound 21. The enantiomeric purities of 11.HCl (ee = 99.8%) and 12. HCl (ee = 99.3%) were determined by chiral HPLC. Compound 10 did not show detectable affinity for GABAA or GABAB receptor sites and was inactive as an agonist or an antagonist at GABAB receptors in the guinea pig ileum. Like the enantiomers of baclofen, neither 11 nor 12 showed detectable affinity for GABAA receptor sites, and in agreement with the findings for (S)-baclofen, 12 did not interact significantly with GABAB receptor sites. Compound 11 (IC50 = 7.4 +/- 0.6 microM), a homologue of (R)-baclofen (2), was shown to be some 50 times weaker than 2 (IC50 = 0.14 +/- 0.01 microM) as an inhibitor of GABAB binding. Accordingly, 11 (EC50 = 150 +/- 23 microM) was shown to be weaker than 2 (EC50 = 11 +/- 1 microM) as an inhibitor of electrically induced contractions of the guinea pig ileum. However, whereas this effect of 2 was sensitive to the GABAB antagonist, CGP35348 (4), the inhibition by 11 was not significantly affected. Furthermore, 12 (EC50 = 310 +/- 16 microM) was shown to be one-half as potent as 11 in this test system, and this effect of 12 also was insensitive to 4. The dissimilarities of the pharmacological effects of 2 and compounds 11 and 12 were emphasized by the observation that whereas 2 only inhibits the ileum contraction by 59 +/- 5%, 11 as well as 12 were shown to inhibit this response by approximately 94%. Neither 11 nor 12 appeared to affect significantly cholinergic mechanisms in the ileum, and their mechanism(s) of action remain enigmatic.
We investigated here the effect of the novel glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF)-family member neurturin (NTN) on transplanted fetal dopamine (DA) neurons. Three groups of rats with complete unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesions of the nigrostriatal DA system received intrastriatal grafts of embryonic ventral mesencephalic tissue. Following transplantation animals received repeated injections of vehicle or NTN (0.3 microg or 3.0 microg) over three weeks posttransplantation. NTN-treated animals had significantly (1.8-fold) more tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive (TH-IR) neurons. Graft volume, TH-IR cell volume and overall dopaminergic host reinnervation remained unchanged. Amphetamine-induced rotation was rapidly compensated in all grafted rats. We conclude that administration of NTN may be a powerful way to increase survival of transplanted fetal DA neurons.
The alpha7 subunit of nicotinic receptor (nAChR) was investigated in post-mortem brain tissue from eight schizophrenics and eight age-matched controls by Western blot. Using anti-alpha7 antibodies a single band with a mol. wt of 42 kDa was detected in human post-mortem brain, which was smaller in size than the single band (52 kDa) detected in SH-SY5Y and PC12 cells. The smaller band specifically bound to [125I]alpha-bungarotoxin, confirming the specificity of the detection in the human brain samples. A significant decrease in the level of alpha7 subunit protein was observed with the same method in the frontal cortex of schizophrenics compared with controls, while no difference was found in the parietal cortex. These findings suggest that a deficit of nAChR alpha7 subunit in the frontal cortex might be involved in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia.
In the present study, we compared neuropeptide Y mRNA expression levels in the prefrontal cortex (Brodmann area 9 and 46) of subjects diagnosed with major depression, bipolar disorder and schizophrenia with those in normal controls without a psychiatric history. No correlation was found regarding neuropeptide Y mRNA expression and postmortem interval, age, gender, hemisphere side, suicide as cause of death, or the history of use of substances such as alcohol, marihuana and cocaine/amphetamine. The only significant alteration found was related to the clinical diagnosis; neuropeptide Y mRNA expression was reduced in the group of bipolar subjects as compared to the controls. Overall, the present results confirm an involvement of neuropeptide Y in affective disorders, and show for the first time a specific association between NPY and bipolar disorder.
Williams syndrome (WMS), a rare disorder with a distinctive profile of medical, psychological, neurophysiological and neuroanatomical characteristics, results from hemizygous deletion of about 20 genes. The phenotype exhibits specific dissociations in higher cognitive functions: general cognitive deficits but spared linguistic abilities; extreme spatial cognitive deficits, but intact face processing. Of special interest is an unusual social phenotype in WMS: an overly friendly, engaging personality and excessive sociability with strangers. In this first experimental study of social behavior in WMS, we report that WMS subjects show an abnormal positive bias in their social judgments of unfamiliar individuals, consistent with their behavior in real life. Our findings contribute to an understanding of the neural and genetic bases of human social behavior.
Autism is a biological disorder which affects social cognition, and understanding brain abnormalities of the former will elucidate the brain basis of the latter. We report structural MRI data on 15 high-functioning individuals with autistic disorder. A voxel-based whole brain analysis identified grey matter differences in an amygdala centered system relative to 15 age- and IQ-matched controls. Decreases of grey matter were found in anterior parts of this system (right paracingulate sulcus, left inferior frontal gyrus). Increases were found in posterior parts (amygdala/peri-amygdaloid cortex, middle temporal gyrus, inferior temporal gyrus), and in regions of the cerebellum. These structures are implicated in social cognition by animal, imaging and histopathological studies. This study therefore provides converging evidence of the physiological basis of social cognition.
Previous studies demonstrated expression of GM1 ganglioside in the nuclear envelope of differentiating neuroblastoma cells and cultured cerebellar granule cells from neonatal rat brain. In the present study, relatively few of the latter cells were shown to possess a nucleus with appreciable GM1 during the first few days in culture, but increasing numbers of such cells possessed GM1-expressing nuclei as morphological differentiation progressed. This phenomenon reached a plateau by the 8th day in culture, approximately 90% of observed nuclei showing cytochemical evidence of GM1 at that time. Cerebral cortical neurons from embryonic rat brain in culture also gave clear evidence of GM1 in the nuclear membrane. Similar results were obtained with cultured neurons from the superior cervical ganglion from embryonic rats, demonstrating developmental appearance of GM1 in the nuclear envelope of PNS neurons. Cytochemical evidence for GM1 in purified nuclei from freshly isolated cortical neurons of neonatal rat brain indicated that expression of nuclear GM1 is not an artifact of cell culture. Study of NG108-15 neuroblastoma x glioma hybrid cells showed upregulation of nuclear GM1 to lag somewhat behind neurite outgrowth, suggesting nuclear GM1 to have a functional role subsequent to onset of morphological differentiation.
Metallothionein-3 (MT-3) is a brain specific member of the MT family. Unlike other members of this family, MT-3 has been shown to act as a neuronal growth inhibitory factor. MT-3 mRNA abundance increases throughout the developmental period, reaching adult levels by postnatal day 21. The role of thyroid hormone in the developmental regulation of MT-3 mRNA was tested because thyroid hormone is known to regulate brain gene expression. Furthermore, gestational hypothyroidism results in developmental brain abnormalities. Hypothyroidism was induced in pregnant dams by the administration of PTU from gestational day 7, resulting in a 4- to 6-fold increase in pup MT-3 mRNA abundance on the day of birth (day 0) and on postnatal day 3. Normal pups did not reach this level of brain MT-3 mRNA until postnatal day 21. Administration of thyroxine (T(4), 2 microg/g) to pups on postnatal day 1 or day 20 resulted in a decrease in MT-3 mRNA abundance on postnatal day 21, regardless of when the injection was given. Furthermore, addition of T(4) to primary cultures of brain (olfactory bulb) astrocytes and neurons from 4-day-old rats resulted in a significant decrease in MT-3 mRNA in 24 h. Given the neuronal growth inhibitory function of MT-3, these data suggest that MT-3 may play a role in the CNS-related consequences of hypo- and hyperthyroidism during development.
While sex differences in neural morphology in the preoptic area/anterior hypothalamus (POA/AH) have been demonstrated in many species, their existence in mice have been controversial. Given the increased use of transgenic and gene-disrupted mice, we characterized sex differences using Nissl stains, and the immunocytochemical location of estrogen receptor-alpha (ER-alpha) and galanin in the POA/AH of two widely used strains, C57BL/6 and 129SvEv, and a mixed strain (C57BL/6x129Sv); the wild-type littermates of steroidogenic factor-1 (SF-1) gene-disrupted mice. Cell grouping was not a reliable marker of sex. In adults, cells located beneath the anterior commissure (AC) were reliably larger in females than males in 129SvEv, but not in the other strains. Caudally, cells in a group medial to the medial extension of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BST) were significantly larger in males than females in C57BL/6J and SF-1 gene-disrupted wild-types. Cell groups discernible by embryonic day (E) 18 were not sexually dimorphic for cell size in C57BL/6J mice at E18 or postnatal day (P) 4. The pattern of distribution of cells containing ER-alpha was similar among the strains, reduced in the group medial to the BST; a pattern established by P0. Galanin-containing cells and fibers were seen from E15 to adulthood ventral to the AC. Caudally, a smaller group ventromedial to the BST was found only in 129SvEv adults. Sex differences in neural morphology which develop within the POA/AH depend upon multiple factors, particularly including genetic background.
Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) is present in climbing and mossy fibers and both have a distinct pattern of distribution in the adult cerebellar cortex. The intent of this developmental study is to determine when the lobular pattern of CRF distribution emerges, and to analyze the morphogenesis of CRF immunoreactive climbing and mossy fibers in individual cerebellar lobules. Between postnatal day (P)0 and P3, CRF-immunoreactive (IR) punctate elements are present throughout the cerebellum. By P3, there is a decrease in the density of staining in the white matter and punctate elements become concentrated within the developing cortex. Between P3 and P7 CRF-IR, varicosities circumscribe Purkinje cell bodies, and are present in the internal and external granule cell layers. Between P10 and P12, there is a major reduction in the density of CRF-IR puncta, especially in the internal and external granule cell layers. Varicosities remain around Purkinje cell bodies and some extend into the molecular layer. During this interval, CRF-IR profiles are first evident in axonal configurations characteristic of developing climbing fibers, although there are lobular differences in the degree of maturation of this afferent system. Axonal enlargements characteristic of immature mossy fibers can first be seen at P10 in lobules IX and X; they cannot be differentiated until P12-14 in more rostral or lateral lobules. CRF-IR fibers in lobules IX and X, the vestibulocerebellum, develop into mature climbing and mossy fibers before any other area of the cerebellum. In other lobules of the cerebellum the gradient of maturation for these axonal phenotypes is from medial to lateral and posterior to anterior. Between P10 and P12, CRF-IR climbing fibers are present in all lobules of the cerebellum. After P12, few climbing fibers are observed in the anterior lobe of the cerebellum at midvermal levels; those present are only faintly immunolabeled. Based on its early expression and uniform distribution between P0 and P10, CRF could have a role in cerebellar development. After this age, as climbing and mossy fiber terminal phenotypes mature, and the differential adult patterns of distribution emerge, CRF likely begins to function as a neuromodulator as has been shown in the adult cerebellum.
In spite of the significant resources devoted to medical education at all levels, the study of educational process has received relatively little attention. Most studies of learning have been observational, with little reference to recent advances in the neurobiology of learning and memory. In this article, the author briefly reviews developments in our understanding of the neurobiology of learning and memory and suggests ways they could contribute to the future evolution of medical education.



Dopaminergic systems are thought to play an important role in the motivational effects of ethanol. The present experiments examined the effects of haloperidol (a D2 antagonist) and SCH-23390 (a D1 antagonist) on the acquisition of ethanol-induced conditioned taste aversion. In four separate experiments, adult male Swiss-Webster mice were acclimated to a 2-h/day water restriction regimen. Subsequently they received four conditioning trials consisting of 1-h access to either 0.2 M NaCl (experiments 1-3) or 0.15 % w/v saccharin (experiment 4). After flavor access on trials 1-3, subjects received either haloperidol (0.1, 0.15, or 0.3 mg/kg), SCH-23390 (0.05 mg/kg), or saline followed 30 min later by 0, 2, or 4 g/kg ethanol. Ethanol-flavor pairings reduced subsequent flavor intakes, indicating the development of conditioned taste aversion. Neither haloperidol of SCH-23390 reduced flavor intakes in the absence of ethanol. However, both haloperidol and SCH-23390 reduced ethanol-conditioned aversion depending on ethanol dose and conditioned flavor. These results are consistent with the notion that dopaminergic processes are important for the development of ethanol-induced conditioned taste aversion, and the notion that dopaminergic receptor systems influence both positive and negative motivational effects of ethanol.
Periodic (high peak) exposure to alcohol during early infancy in the rat has been shown to disrupt the partial reinforcement extinction effect (PREE), a measure of persistence learning, when rats were tested at weaning age. The current study examined the effects of d-amphetamine (0.3 mg/kg, i.p.) on the PREE after early postnatal exposure to alcohol (4.5 mg/kg) delivered in a milk-based diet or an isocaloric control diet via oral intubation once a day on postnatal days 4 to 9. On postnatal days 20 and 21, rats were trained on either a continuously reinforced or partially reinforced schedule of food reward, followed by extinction. Rats were randomly assigned to eight conditions, depending on diet, drug, and reward schedule. The results were (1) a replication of the finding that periodic (high peak) exposure to alcohol diminishes the PREE, and (2) that amphetamine restores the PREE to normal levels in alcohol-treated animals, and may reduce the PREE in control subjects. The possible role of noradrenergic and dopaminergic systems in situations of extinction and nonreward are discussed.
Early postnatal exposure to alcohol during early development produces deficits in learned persistence, as reflected in the partial reinforcement extinction effect (PREE) in weanling rats, and deficits memory-based learning, as shown by patterned single alternation (PSA) discrimination learning in preweanling rats. We report a partial replication of these effects using the intubation method instead of artificial rearing. Rat pups were intubated once per day with 4.5 g/kg/day alcohol in a milk-based diet or control diet on postnatal days (PNDs) 4 to 9, and then assessed for the PREE on PNDs 20 and 21 or PSA learning on PNDs 17 and 18. Compared with previous artificial rearing reports, the intubation method produced healthier and heavier pups, and yielded a consistently lower and less variable blood alcohol levels. Even with the lower alcohol levels, intubation with alcohol eliminated the PREE. Intubation with alcohol had a weaker but still detrimental effect on PSA learning. These results suggest that alcohol exposure during development can produce behavioral deficits in the absence of the more severe effects on brain and body growth typically associated with fetal alcohol syndrome.

The autonomic nervous system can now be studied quantitatively, noninvasively, and reproducibly in a clinical autonomic laboratory. The approach at the Mayo Clinic is to study the postganglionic sympathetic nerve fibers of peripheral nerve (using the quantitative sudomotor axon reflex test [QSART]), the parasympathetic nerves to the heart (cardiovagal tests), and the regulation of blood pressure by the baroreflexes (adrenergic tests). Patient preparation is extremely important, since the state of the patient influences the results of autonomic function tests. The autonomic technologist in this evolving field needs to have a solid core of knowledge of autonomic physiology and autonomic function tests, followed by training in the performance of these tests in a standardized fashion. The range and utilization of tests of autonomic function will likely continue to evolve.
The most common cause of new blindness in young patients is retinal neovascularization, and in the elderly is choroidal neovascularization. Therefore, there has been a great deal of attention focused on the development of new treatments for these disease processes. Previous studies have demonstrated partial inhibition of retinal neovascularization in animal models using antagonists of vascular endothelial growth factor or other signaling molecules implicated in the angiogenesis cascade. These studies have indicated potential for drug treatment, but have left many questions unanswered. Is it possible to completely inhibit retinal neovascularization using drug treatment with a mode of administration that is feasible to use in patients? Do agents that inhibit retinal neovascularization have any effect on choroidal neovascularization? In this study, we demonstrate complete inhibition of retinal neovascularization in mice with oxygen-induced ischemic retinopathy by oral administration of a partially selective kinase inhibitor that blocks several members of the protein kinase C family, along with vascular endothelial growth factor and platelet-derived growth factor receptor tyrosine kinases. The drug also blocks normal vascularization of the retina during development but has no identifiable adverse effects on mature retinal vessels. In addition, the kinase inhibitor causes dramatic inhibition of choroidal neovascularization in a laser-induced murine model. These data provide proof of concept that pharmacological treatment is a viable approach for therapy of both retinal and choroidal neovascularization.
The physiology of excitable membranes is a fundamental topic in neuroscience and physiology courses at graduate and undergraduate levels. From the building blocks of ionic gradients and membrane channels whose permeability is selective and variable, we build the concepts of resting potential, action potential, and propagation in neurons and muscle fibers. Many students have an intuitive understanding of the movements of ions and the associated changes in membrane potential. For example, potassium ions leaving a cell through potassium-selective channels become unbalanced positive charges on the outside of the cell (and leave unbalanced negative charges on the inside), thus producing a potential across the membrane with the inside negative with respect to the outside. Later, when we discuss the local circuit currents that underlie propagation or the basis for extracellular stimulation, we make the general statement that &quot;outward currents depolarize cells.&quot; Students respond with utter disbelief. Two simple additions to a discussion of membranes are suggested that permit the formulation of a consistent set of rules that apply to everything from the resting and action potentials of nerve and muscle through synaptic potentials and stimulation techniques.
There is increasing demand on science faculty to develop authentic assessment measures for both individual courses and undergraduate programs. We report here on a quarter-long group project used in a neurophysiology course that can be used for either purpose. Small groups of four to five students critically analyze at least 10 articles from the primary scientific literature. The end result of this process is the equivalent of a scientific review article that is presented in two formats, a 10-min oral presentation and a scientific poster presentation. Students perform better on application tasks than on analysis, synthesis, or evaluation tasks associated with the project (P &lt; 0.025) and generally respond positively to process questions (59-82%) but less positively to task questions (36-76%) about group dynamics. The cognitive skills and basic content knowledge required to complete this project are developed throughout the undergraduate program. Thus the project is a type of culminating program experience. However, the project also assesses basic course proficiency, because students cannot analyze primary neuroscience research without an understanding of neurophysiological principles.
Previous investigations suggest a possible role in cardiovascular regulation for neurons of the mediobasal forebrain. The present study was designed to determine the location and morphology of basal forebrain neurons that respond to acute changes in arterial blood pressure. Extracellular recordings of single units were done in alpha-chloralose- or urethan-anesthetized rats. The effect of cardiovascular pressor (phenylephrine, 1-2 microgram/kg iv) and depressor (sodium nitroprusside, 0.5-1 microgram/kg iv) events on the discharge rates of units was determined. Some of the neurons tested were subsequently filled with biocytin using the juxtacellular method. Brain sections were processed using the avidin-biotin complex reaction to reveal a Golgi-like appearance of the neuron. Of 32 neurons located in the horizontal limb of the diagonal band of Broca (hDB), 13 (41%) were found to be excited by depressor events. Barosensitive biocytin-labeled cells were located in all regions of the hDB and had small- to medium-sized cell bodies with sparse and simple dendritic morphology. Only 2 of 47 neurons tested in the region of the olfactory tubercle, islands of Calleja (IC), and ventral pallidum responded to changes in arterial blood pressure. The results of the present investigation suggest a role in the regulation of cardiovascular function for neurons of the hDB. The findings also suggest that most neurons in the olfactory tubercle, including the IC complex, do not respond to acute changes in arterial blood pressure.
The present experiments examined whether in rats consuming diets with either high NaCl content (8%) or low Na+ content (0.01%) for 2 wk excitatory inputs to the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM) would be altered. In chloralose-anesthetized rats, injection of glutamate into the RVLM elicited a pressor response that, compared with rats fed a control diet, was 50% larger in rats fed a diet containing 8% NaCl and was 25% smaller in rats fed a diet containing 0.01% Na+. Pressor responses produced by electrical stimulation of sciatic nerve afferents, as well as by microinjections into the RVLM of L-dihydroxyphenylalanine or carbachol, were all potentiated by high dietary salt intake and reduced by low dietary salt intake. Dietary salt intake had no effect on pressor responses produced by intravenous injection of phenylephrine, indicating that salt-related alterations in cardiovascular responses produced by central activation could not be accounted for by changes in peripheral vascular reactivity. The decrease in arterial pressure produced by injection of glutamate into the nucleus of the solitary tract was also potentiated by the high salt diet, suggesting that the sensitivity of central baroreceptor reflex pathways may be altered by dietary NaCl. These results indicate that the amount of NaCl consumed in the diet can change the sensitivity of RVLM sympathoexcitatory neurons, and this change in sensitivity is not restricted to any particular class of cell surface receptors.
Brown adipose tissue (BAT) plays a critical role in cold- and diet-induced thermogenesis. Although BAT is densely innervated by the sympathetic nervous system (SNS), little is known about the central nervous system (CNS) origins of this innervation. The purpose of the present experiment was to determine the neuroanatomic chain of functionally connected neurons from the CNS to BAT. A transneuronal viral tract tracer, Bartha's K strain of the pseudorabies virus (PRV), was injected into the interscapular BAT of Siberian hamsters. The animals were killed 4 and 6 days postinjection, and the infected neurons were visualized by immunocytochemistry. PRV-infected neurons were found in the spinal cord, brain stem, midbrain, and forebrain. The intensity of labeled neurons in the forebrain varied from heavy infections in the medial preoptic area and paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus to few infections in the ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus, with moderate infections in the suprachiasmatic and lateral hypothalamic nuclei. These results define the SNS outflow from the brain to BAT for the first time in any species.


The electromyogram and posture angles of the shoulder and arm were recorded during sitting manipulative work in three positions, with and without the forearm suspended by a balancer. A Selspot system was used to record movements. The results from 12 female subjects (mean age 29 yr) showed that the activity in deltoideus anterior decreased significantly by using a balancer. Lower mean values were also noted for deltoideus lateralis and the trapezius muscles. The neck inclination increased with higher work area position, but was independent of the use of a balancer.


We have investigated the effect of soman-induced seizures on rat brain levels of nitrogen oxides (NOx) and lipid peroxidation (LPO) 30 min and 24 h after intoxication. Following administration of soman (90 microg/kg s.c.), acetylcholinesterase activity was reduced to &lt;10% of control after 30 min, whereas some de novo synthesis had occurred after 24 h. Significant increases in the LPO products malondialdehyde (MDA) and (E)-4-hydroxy-2-nonenal (4-HNE) were seen in the cortex, hippocampus, striatum, thalamus and medulla-pons 30 min after administration. A significant increase in the brain NOx levels, suggesting an increase in NO production, was seen in the cortex after 30 min and in the hippocampus and the striatum after 24 h. No significant changes were observed in cerebellum. These data suggest the possibility that free radical reactions may be a primary cause of neuronal degeneration after soman intoxication.
Animal models of heart failure present homogenous groups of animals all with heart failure produced by a well defined lesion at a particular stage of evolution, in contrast to humans, who present with heart failure of uncertain duration from a wide variety of causes and with marked variation in age and pre-morbid health and fitness. Animal models of heart failure provide diseased groups of animals in which experimental procedures, not possible in humans, can be evaluated and in which new treatments can be tested before their safety is established in humans. An ideal model should have a common human counterpart and should closely mimic heart failure in humans. Thus the haemodynamic changes should include increased cardiac filling pressures and low cardiac output. There should be evidence of activation of the sympathetic nervous system and increased secretion of hormones such as renin, angiotensin, aldosterone, vasopressin, atrial natriuretic factor and endothelin. The clinical features of the human syndrome such as cardiomegaly, lung and peripheral oedema and decreased exercise tolerance should be present. Lastly, the model should be inexpensive and technically simple to produce and study. This paper reviews some commonly used models of heart failure in relation to the criteria listed above. There is no perfect animal model of heart failure and in practice one should match the model to the purpose of the study.
Pharmacological application of broad agonists and antagonists has supported the notion of a potential role of metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) in learning and memory formation, but the specific function of the different classes or individual subtypes remains elusive. Furthermore, our knowledge with respect to different learning mechanisms is still fragmentary. In an attempt to clarify further the function of mGluRs in learning, rats were trained in various paradigms in the presence/absence of the specific class I antagonist 1-aminoindan-1,5-dicarboxylic acid (AIDA). Intraperitoneal application of AIDA prior to training led to enhanced within-session performance in animals trained in a positively reinforced reference memory task in a three-choice maze. However, this enhancement did not result in increased retention as measured by the number of correct responses during the first four trials of each session on subsequent days. The increase was purely an enhancement in within-session performance, required doses higher than 2 mg/kg, and was not accompanied by an unspecific increase in activity as monitored in the open field. By contrast, AIDA animals trained in a combined shock-reinforced contextual and cue conditioning paradigm demonstrated a pronounced retention deficit compared with controls in conditioning to the context, but not the cue (a high-frequency tone). Although within-session performance during context and cue periods was slightly increased in the AIDA group, the difference did not reach significance. Drug-induced hyperactivity, which could account for the memory deficit, was excluded by recordings of activity in specific activity cages. These results shed new light on the possible function of class I mGluRs in learning and memory formation and imply that systemic blockade of class I mGluRs may enhance short-term memory under certain learning conditions.
Using a data set of 69 different mammalian species, Heffner and Masterton propose that the longer and deeper the fibres of the corticospinal tract, the greater an animal's digital dexterity. Because of the effects that phylogeny may have upon the extant phenotype of a given species, however, data from a wide range of species can rarely be considered to represent fully independent data points. Using modern comparative statistics, which incorporate phylogenetic information, we reanalysed their data set such that the assumption of independence was not violated. If Heffner and Masterton's hypothesis is correct, then one would expect evidence of strong correlated evolution between corticospinal tract anatomy and digital dexterity once the effects of the phylogenetic relationships between the species in the data set have been removed. The results show that a distinct bias in the number of primate species sampled by Heffner and Masterton significantly affected their findings. Furthermore, once phylogeny has been taken into account, only the length of the corticospinal tract fibres showed a significant relationship with two out of the four behaviours analysed, digital dexterity and hand-eye coordination. Based upon our results we recommend the use of modern comparative statistics for synthesising neural structure and behaviour, rather than examining structure function relationships in an ahistorical context. It is also evident that there is a need for data on the length and depth of the corticospinal fibres for a greater range of species so that the relationship between the corticospinal tract structure and motor behaviour for mammals as a whole can be more readily interpreted.
Extraversion has two central characteristics: (1) interpersonal engagement, which consists of affiliation (enjoying and valuing close interpersonal bonds, being warm and affectionate) and agency (being socially dominant, enjoying leadership roles, being assertive, being exhibitionistic, and having a sense of potency in accomplishing goals) and (2) impulsivity, which emerges from the interaction of extraversion and a second, independent trait (constraint). Agency is a more general motivational disposition that includes dominance, ambition, mastery, efficacy, and achievement. Positive affect (a combination of positive feelings and motivation) is closely associated with extraversion. Extraversion is accordingly based on positive incentive motivation. Parallels between extraversion (particularly its agency component) and a mammalian behavioral approach system based on positive incentive motivation implicate a neuroanatomical network and modulatory neurotransmitters in the processing of incentive motivation. A corticolimbic-striatal-thalamic network (1) integrates the salient incentive context in the medial orbital cortex, amygdala, and hippocampus; (2) encodes the intensity of incentive stimuli in a motive circuit composed of the nucleus accumbens, ventral pallidum, and ventral tegmental area dopamine projection system; and (3) creates an incentive motivational state that can be transmitted to the motor system. Individual differences in the functioning of this network arise from functional variation in the ventral tegmental area dopamine projections, which are directly involved in coding the intensity of incentive motivation. The animal evidence suggests that there are three neurodevelopmental sources of individual differences in dopamine: genetic, &quot;experience-expectant,&quot; and &quot;experience-dependent.&quot; Individual differences in dopamine promote variation in the heterosynaptic plasticity that enhances the connection between incentive context and incentive motivation and behavior. Our psychobiological threshold model explains the effects of individual differences in dopamine transmission on behavior, and their relation to personality traits is discussed.
Although the study of visual perception has made more progress in the past 40 years than any other area of cognitive science, there remain major disagreements as to how closely vision is tied to cognition. This target article sets out some of the arguments for both sides (arguments from computer vision, neuroscience, psychophysics, perceptual learning, and other areas of vision science) and defends the position that an important part of visual perception, corresponding to what some people have called early vision, is prohibited from accessing relevant expectations, knowledge, and utilities in determining the function it computes--in other words, it is cognitively impenetrable. That part of vision is complex and involves top-down interactions that are internal to the early vision system. Its function is to provide a structured representation of the 3-D surfaces of objects sufficient to serve as an index into memory, with somewhat different outputs being made available to other systems such as those dealing with motor control. The paper also addresses certain conceptual and methodological issues raised by this claim, such as whether signal detection theory and event-related potentials can be used to assess cognitive penetration of vision. A distinction is made among several stages in visual processing, including, in addition to the inflexible early-vision stage, a pre-perceptual attention-allocation stage and a post-perceptual evaluation, selection, and inference stage, which accesses long-term memory. These two stages provide the primary ways in which cognition can affect the outcome of visual perception. The paper discusses arguments from computer vision and psychology showing that vision is &quot;intelligent&quot; and involves elements of &quot;problem solving.&quot; The cases of apparently intelligent interpretation sometimes cited in support of this claim do not show cognitive penetration; rather, they show that certain natural constraints on interpretation, concerned primarily with optical and geometrical properties of the world, have been compiled into the visual system. The paper also examines a number of examples where instructions and &quot;hints&quot; are alleged to affect what is seen. In each case it is concluded that the evidence is more readily assimilated to the view that when cognitive effects are found, they have a locus outside early vision, in such processes as the allocation of focal attention and the identification of the stimulus.
This study examined the role of dopamine (DA) in partner preference (PP) formation in female prairie voles (Microtus ochrogaster). The nonspecific DA antagonist haloperidol blocked mating-induced PP, whereas the nonspecific DA agonist apomorphine induced PP without mating. The D2 antagonist eticlopride, but not the D1 antagonist SCH23390, blocked PP, whereas the D2 agonist quinpirole, but not the D1 agonist SKF38393, induced PP without mating. Injections of eticlopride before or immediately after mating, but not 24 hr after mating, impaired PP, indicating that DA's effects were not due to an interference with mating or sensory recognition. Finally, intracerebroventricular injections of eticlopride diminished PP. Together, these data suggest that mating-induced PP requires activation of D2 receptors and that social experience may activate dopaminergic pathways, with enduring effects on behavior.
To investigate the mechanism for the delayed activation by voltage of the predominant mechanosensitive (MS) channel in Xenopus oocytes, currents were recorded from on-cell and excised patches of membrane with the patch clamp technique and from intact oocytes with the two-electrode voltage clamp technique. MS channels could be activated by stretch in inside-out, on-cell, and outside-out patch configurations, using pipettes formed of either borosilicate or soft glass. In inside-out patches formed with borosilicate glass pipettes, depolarizing voltage steps activated MS channels in a cooperative manner after delays of seconds. This voltage-dependent activation was not observed for outside-out patches. Voltage-dependent activation was also not observed when the borosilicate pipettes were either replaced with soft glass pipettes or coated with soft glass. When depolarizing voltage steps were applied to the whole oocyte with a two-electrode voltage clamp, currents that could be attributed to MS channels were not observed. Yet the same depolarizing steps activated MS channels in on-cell patches formed with borosilicate pipettes on the same oocyte. These observations suggest that the delayed cooperative activation of MS channels by depolarization is not an intrinsic property of the channels, but requires interaction between the membrane and patch pipette.
Polyamines such as spermine are thought to be endogenous regulators of NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartate)-type glutamate receptors. Polyamine block of NMDA receptors was studied in excised outside-out patches from rat hippocampal neurons and Xenopus oocytes expressing recombinant receptors. Extracellular spermine and arcaine reduced NMDA single-channel conductance in a voltage-dependent manner, with partial relief of block evident at large inside negative membrane potentials. Reducing extracellular Na+ concentration increased the apparent affinities for spermine and arcaine, indicating strong interaction between spermine and permeant ions. Internal spermine also blocked NMDA channels in a voltage-dependent manner, with relief of block evident at large inside positive potentials. The Woodhull model of channel block by an impermeant ion adequately described the actions of external spermine from -60 to +60 mV, but failed for more negative potentials. Eyring rate theory for a permeable blocker with two barriers and one binding site adequately described the voltage-dependent block and relief from block by both external and internal spermine over the range of -120 to +60 mV. These findings indicate that polyamines block and permeate neuronal NMDA receptor channels from the extracellular and intracellular sides, although sensitivity to internal spermine is probably too low to be physiologically relevant.
We have explored the role of a proline residue located at position 87 in the second transmembrane segment (TM2) of gap junctions in the mechanism of voltage-dependent gating of connexin32 (Cx32). Substitution of this proline (denoted Cx32P87) with residues G, A, or V affects channel function in a progressive manner consistent with the expectation that a proline kink (PK) motif exists in the second transmembrane segment (TM2) of this connexin. Mutations of the preceding threonine residue T86 to S, A, C, V, N, or L shift the conductance-voltage relation of wild-type Cx32, such that the mutated channels close at smaller transjunctional voltages. The observed shift in voltage dependence is consistent with a reduction in the open probability of the mutant hemichannels at a transjunctional voltage (Vj) of 0 mV. In both cases in which kinetics were examined, the time constants for reaching steady state were faster for T86N and T86A than for wild type at comparable voltages, suggesting that the T86 mutations cause the energetic destabilization of the open state relative to the other states of the channel protein. The structural underpinnings of the observed effects were explored with Monte Carlo simulations. The conformational space of TM2 helices was found to differ for the T86A, V, N, and L mutants, which produce a less bent helix ( approximately 20 degrees bend angle) compared to the wild type, which has a approximately 37 degrees bend angle. The greater bend angle of the wild-type helix reflects the propensity of the T86 residue to hydrogen bond with the backbone carbonyl of amino acid residue I82. The relative differences in propensity for hydrogen bonding of the mutants relative to the wild-type threonine residue in the constructs we studied (T86A, V, N, L, S, and C) correlate with the shift in the conductance-voltage relation observed for T86 mutations. The data are consistent with a structural model in which the open conformation of the Cx32 channel corresponds to a more bent TM2 helix, and the closed conformation corresponds to a less bent helix. We propose that the modulation of the hydrogen-bonding potential of the T86 residue alters the bend angle of the PK motif and mediates conformational changes between open and closed channel states.

Many structurally diverse general anaesthetics enhance inhibitory neurotransmission in the central nervous system by interacting with the GABAA receptor. By contrast, GABA receptors composed of the rho 1 subunit are anaesthetic-insensitive. Here, we demonstrate that both delta-hexachlorocyclohexane (delta-HCH; 1-100 microM), a positive allosteric modulator of the GABAA receptor, and the anaesthetic pentobarbitone (10-600 microM) have no effect on GABA-evoked currents mediated by wild-type rho 1 recombinant receptors (expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes). By contrast, these agents produce up to a 10 fold enhancement of GABA responses transduced by a rho 1 receptor in which a transmembrane located isoleucine residue is replaced by serine. However, not all general anaesthetics were similarly influenced by this mutation, because propofol and 5 beta-pregnan-3 alpha-ol-20-one (5 beta 3 alpha) remained ineffective. These data are discussed in relation to the specificity of general anaesthetic action.

The effect of chronic bilateral high-frequency stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) on levodopa-induced dyskinaesias was investigated in eight patients with fluctuating Parkinson's disease complicated by functionally disabling off-period dystonia. All of the patients also had severe diphasic and peak-dose chorea, so that it was possible to study the effect of high-frequency stimulation on the different types of levodopa-induced dyskinaesias. Off-period fixed dystonia was reduced by 90% and off-period pain by 66%. After acute levodopa challenge, high-frequency stimulation of the STN reduced diphasic mobile dystonia by 50% and peak-dose choreic dyskinaesias by 30%. The effect of bilateral high-frequency stimulation of the STN on the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale motor score had the same magnitude as the preoperative effect of levodopa. This allowed the levodopa dose to be reduced by 47%. The combination of reduced medication and continuous high-frequency stimulation of the STN reduced the duration of on-period diphasic and peak-dose dyskinaesias by 52% and the intensity by 68%. Acute high-frequency stimulation of the STN mimics an acute levodopa challenge, concerning both parkinsonism and dyskinaesias, and suppresses off-period dystonia. Increasing the voltage can induce repetitive dystonic dyskinaesias, mimicking diphasic levodopa-induced dyskinaesias. A further increase in voltage leads to a shift from a diphasic-pattern dystonia to a peak-dose pattern choreodystonia. Chronic high-frequency stimulation of the STN also mimics the benefit of levodopa on parkinsonism and improves all kinds of levodopa-induced dyskinaesias to varying degrees. Off-period dystonia, associated with neuronal hyperactivity in the STN is directly affected by stimulation and disappears immediately. The effect of chronic high-frequency stimulation of the STN on diphasic and peak-dose dyskinaesias is more complex and is related directly to the functional inhibition of the STN and indirectly to the replacement of the pulsatile dopaminergic stimulation by continuous functional inhibition of the STN. Chronic high-frequency stimulation of the STN allows a very gradual increase in stimulation parameters with increasing beneficial effect on parkinsonism while reducing the threshold for the elicitation of stimulation-induced dyskinaesias. In parallel with improvement of parkinsonism, the levodopa dose can be gradually decreased. As diphasic dystonic dyskinaesias are improved to a greater degree than peak-dose dyskinaesias, both direct and indirect mechanisms may be involved. Peak-dose choreatic dyskinaesias, associated with little evidence of parkinsonism and thus with low neuronal activity in the STN, are improved, mostly indirectly. Fixed off-period dystonia, mobile diphasic dystonia and peak-dose choreodystonia seem to represent a continuous clinical spectrum reflecting a continuous spectrum of underlying activity patterns of STN neurons.
Five parkinsonian patients who had received implants of human embryonic mesencephalic tissue unilaterally in the striatum 10-56 months earlier were grafted with tissue from four to eight donors into the putamen (four patients) or the putamen plus the caudate nucleus (one patient) on the other side, and were followed for 18-24 months. After 12-18 months, PET showed a mean 85% increase in 6-L-[18F]fluorodopa uptake in the putamen with the second graft, whereas there was no significant further change in the previously transplanted putamen. Two patients exhibited marked additional improvements after their second graft: 'on-off' fluctuations virtually disappeared, movement speed increased, and L-dopa could be withdrawn in one patient and reduced by 70% in the other. The improvement in one patient was moderate. Two patients with atypical features, who responded poorly to the first graft, worsened following the second transplantation. These findings indicate that sequential transplantation in patients does not compromise the survival and function of either the first or the second graft. Moreover, putamen grafts that restore fluorodopa uptake to normal levels can give improvements of major therapeutic value.
The role of the basal ganglia in language processing is currently a matter of discussion. Therefore, patients with left frontal cortical and subcortical lesions involving the basal ganglia as well as normal controls were tested in a language comprehension paradigm. Semantically incorrect, syntactically incorrect and correct sentences were presented auditorily. Subjects were required to listen to the sentences and to judge whether the sentence heard was correct or not. Event-related potentials and reaction times were recorded while subjects heard the sentences. Three different components correlated with different language processes were considered: the so-called N400 assumed to reflect processes of semantic integration; the early left anterior negativity hypothesized to reflect processes of initial syntactic structure building; and a late positivity (P600) taken to reflect second-pass processes including re-analysis and repair. Normal participants showed the expected N400 component for semantically incorrect sentences and an early anterior negativity followed by a P600 for syntactically incorrect sentences. Patients with left frontal cortical lesions displayed an attenuated N400 component in the semantic condition. In the syntactic condition only a late positivity was observed. Patients with lesions of the basal ganglia, in contrast, showed an N400 to semantic violations and an early anterior negativity as well as a P600 to syntactic violations, comparable to normal controls. Under the assumption that the early anterior negativity reflects automatic first-pass parsing processes and the P600 component more controlled second-pass parsing processes, the present results suggest that the left frontal cortex might support early parsing processes, and that specific regions of the basal ganglia, in contrast, may not be crucial for early parsing processes during sentence comprehension.
We conducted a chronic preparation experiment involving near term fetal sheep to evaluate the contribution of umbilical cord occlusion to fetal brain injury. In experimental groups (n = 11), complete cord occlusion for 3 min followed by 5 min release, repeated 5 times were performed at 3 days after initial surgery. Instrumental cases without cord occlusion (n = 3) and uninstrumental twins (n = 6) were also examined as controls. Multiple necrotic foci predominantly in the periventricular white matter were found in the fetal brains examined at 1-3 days after cord occlusion. To estimate the contribution of early axonal and glial reaction to brain injury the following immunohistochemical study was performed. In the lesions, coagulation necrosis, axonal swelling and microglial activation were demonstrated with amyloid precursor protein or ionized calcium binding adapter molecule 1 immunohistochemistry. The induction of tumor necrosis factor alpha and inducible nitric oxide synthase were also detected immunohistochemically in the microglia at 1 and 3 days after cord occlusion. In contrast, the reaction of glial fibrillary acidic protein positive astrocytes was faint at 1 day after occlusion, but the induction of cyclooxygenase-2 was observed. These findings suggest the glial reaction of cytokines and free radicals induced by fetal hypoxia may contribute to the occurrence of brain injury.
Two cross-modal priming experiments investigated whether the representation of either an initial- or a final-embedded word may be activated when the longer carrier word is auditorily presented. Visual targets were semantically related either to the embedded word or to the carrier word or they were unrelated to the primes. A priming effect was found for semantic associates of the carrier word in both experiments as well as for associates of the final-embedded word (Experiment 2). These results suggest that mapping speech onto lexical representations may imply lexical access attempts at several points during auditory processing of the speech signal.
DNA damaging agents such as ultraviolet (UV) induce cell cycle arrest followed by apoptosis in cells where irreparable damage has occurred. Here we show that during early phase G1 arrest which occurs in UV-irradiated human U343 glioblastoma cells, there are (1) decreases in cyclin D1 and cdk4 levels which parallel a loss of S-phase promoting cyclin D1/cdk4 complexes, and (2) increases in p53 and p21 protein levels. We also show that the late phase UV-induced apoptosis of U343 cells occurs after cell cycle re-entry and parallels the reappearance of cyclin D1 and cdk4 and cyclin D1/cdk4 complexes. These findings suggest that cyclin D1 can abrogate UV-induced G1 arrest and that the p53-mediated apoptosis that occurs in these cells is dependent on cyclin D1 levels. We examined these possibilities using U343 cells that ectopically express cyclin D1 and found that indeed cyclin D1 can overcome the cell cycle arrest caused by UV. Moreover, the appearance of p53 protein and the induction of apoptosis in UV-irradiated cells was found to be dependent on the level of ectopically expressed cyclin D1. These findings, therefore, indicate that expression of cyclin D1 following DNA damage is essential for cell cycle re-entry and p53-mediated apoptosis.
Muscarinic agonists stimulated arachidonic acid release from 10- to 32-fold in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells transfected with muscarinic M1, M3 and M5 receptor subtypes. Muscarinic agonists liberated arachidonic acid from the cAMP-coupled M2 and M4 cells only in the presence of ATP. Partial agonists were less efficacious at liberating arachidonic acid than full agonists. The ability of muscarinic agonists to liberate arachidonic acid and stimulate phosphoinositide hydrolysis in the same CHO M1, M3 and M5 cells was well correlated; however, partial agonists were more efficacious at stimulating phosphoinositide hydrolysis than arachidonic acid release. The efficacy and potency of 13 muscarinic agonists to liberate arachidonic acid was characterised. Influx of external calcium was required for arachidonic acid release even after initiation of agonist-induced release. It is concluded that arachidonic acid release is a simple assay suitable for evaluation of muscarinic agonists, antagonists and the flux of external calcium into cells.
Significant amounts of endogenous biotin were detected by avidin-peroxidase in fixed rat kidney, liver, and brain. The staining was indistinguishable from the true signals of immunoreactivity and could not be consistently blocked by pretreatment with avidin. The finding that certain neurons in the hippocampus contain more biotin than neurons in other areas of the brain suggests that biotin might have novel functions in the brain other than its well-known role as cofactor of carboxylases. Critical examination of published immunohistochemical localization studies on rat kidney strongly suggests that many false-positive results have been considered as true signals. Interference of endogenous biotin in any study using avidin-biotin technology must be considered if biological tissues are involved. The published data obtained by this method should therefore be reevaluated. Furthermore, appropriate controls, blockers and caution in interpreting results must be exercised, not only in immunohistochemistry but also in any applications of avidin-biotin technology.
The objective of this study was to estimate the prevalence of and to compare the characteristics of transient visual disturbances (TVDs) of possible migraine origin in a clinical and a general population. Data were obtained in interviews from 100 consecutive female migraine patients (17-69 years) and 245 women (40-75 years) from the general population. The lifetime prevalences were 37% and 13%, respectively. We did not detect any differences in characteristics of TVDs between patients and women in the general population. A gradual onset of five or more minutes was stated by as few as 45% and 46%, respectively. The typical headache phase in conjunction with a TVD had more migrainous features in patients. We conclude from our data that the TVDs in this study, which do not fulfill the IHS criteria for migraine with aura, more likely represent poorly described or abortive migraine phenomena, rather than phenomena of other origin.
A visual scene is rapidly segmented into the regions that are occupied by different objects and background. Segmentation may be initiated from the detection of boundaries, followed by the filling-in of the surfaces between these boundaries to render them visible. Alternatively, segmentation may be based on grouping of surface elements that are similar, so that boundaries are (implicitly) identified as the borders between elements that are grouped into objects. Here, we present recordings from awake monkey primary visual cortex that show that in late (&gt;80 ms) components of the neural responses a correlate of boundary formation is expressed, followed by a filling-in (also called colouring) between the edges. These data favour a model of segmentation where boundary formation initiates surface filling-in.
The acquisition of definitive evidence for systematic hemispheric asymmetries in the size of the planum temporale (PT) has been restricted by difficulties in identifying, standardizing and measuring the region of interest. In this paper an operational definition for identifying the problematic posterior border of the PT on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans is proposed. An interactive voxel-painting program was used to identify and label the PT simultaneously in horizontal, sagittal and coronal planes in MRI scans, transformed into the standardized Talairach-Tournoux stereo-taxic space, from 50 normal right-handed volunteers. Both grey matter volume and cortical surface area of the PT were measured, while controlling for individual variation in overall brain shape and volume. The labeled tissue was averaged together to produce a probability map in standardized space of the region of interest. The PT region is highly variable, with no single voxel being labeled with a probability of &gt;65%. In this study there were no significant hemispheric differences in volume or area of the PT. An asymmetry in area and volume was introduced by using an alternative method - the 'knife-cut' method - for identifying the posterior border. Implications for functional neuroimaging of the PT are discussed.
Recent research indicates that non-tonal novel events, deviating from an ongoing auditory environment, elicit a positive event-related potential (ERP), the novel P3. Although a variety of studies examined the neural network engaged in novelty detection, there is no complete picture of the underlying brain mechanisms. This experiment investigated these neural mechanisms by combining ERP and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Hemodynamic and electrophysiological responses were measured in the same subjects using the same experimental design. The ERP analysis revealed a novel P3, while the fMRI responses showed bilateral foci in the middle part of the superior temporal gyrus. When subjects attended to the novel stimuli only identifiable novel sounds evoked a N4-like negativity. Subjects showing a strong N4-effect had additional fMRI activation in right prefrontal cortex (rPFC) as compared to subjects with a weak N4-effect. This pattern of results suggests that novelty processing not only includes the registration of deviancy but may also lead to a fast access and retrieval of related semantic concepts. The fMRI activation pattern suggests that the superior temporal gyrus is involved in novelty detection, whereas accessing and retrieving semantic concepts related to novel sounds additionally engages the rPFC.
Cyclic nucleotide-gated channels, ligand-gated and highly permeable to calcium, are good candidates for transducing signals received by migrating cells, growth cones and developing synapses. The level of calcium in growth cones is important for axon guidance. Further, cyclic nucleotides, whose levels can be altered by nitric oxide and other transmitters, are known to alter growth cone motility. We use rat visual cortex as a model in our semi-quantitative RT-PCR and in situ hybridization studies to determine the developmental time course and localization of all three CNG family members (rod, olfactory and cone/testis). We demonstrate that in the cortex, the three channel subtypes are each expressed in a distinct temporal and spatial pattern in only sensorimotor and occipital regions of the cortex. Specifically, the rod and olfactory subtypes are present at the time of migration and rapid dendritic outgrowth, and the cone/testis subtype is highly expressed after eye opening. These results suggest CNG channels may play a role in both early and late events in visual cortical development.
We performed non-radioactive in situ hybridization histochemistry in several areas that include both the association areas and the lower sensory areas of monkey cerebral cortex, and investigated the localization of neurons expressing two growth-associated proteins: GAP-43 and SCG10. Both GAP-43 and SCG10 mRNAs were observed in both pyramidal and non-pyramidal neurons. Prominent hybridization signals for GAP-43 mRNA were observed in layers II-VI of the adult association areas: the prefrontal areas (FD), the temporal (TE) and the parietal (PG) association areas. The signals for GAP-43 mRNA were weak in layers I-III of the adult primary somatosensory area (PB) and primary (OC) and secondary (OB) visual areas, and cells with prominent signals were observed in layers IV-VI. The prominent signals for SCG10 mRNA were observed in layers IV-VI of all areas examined. These results suggest that the expression pattern of GAP-43 mRNA, but not that of SCG10 mRNA, may be related to the functional difference between association and lower sensory areas of adult cortex. In the infant cortex (postnatal days 2, 8 and 31), the signals for both mRNAs were intense in layers II-VI of all areas. Therefore, layer-specific expressions of GAP-43 and SCG10 mRNAs are established after the first postnatal month.


Determining the pupil center is fundamental for calculating eye orientation in video-based systems. Existing techniques are error prone and not robust because eyelids, eyelashes, corneal reflections or shadows in many instances occlude the pupil. We have developed a new algorithm which utilizes curvature characteristics of the pupil boundary to eliminate these artifacts. Pupil center is computed based solely on points related to the pupil boundary. For each boundary point, a curvature value is computed. Occlusion of the boundary induces characteristic peaks in the curvature function. Curvature values for normal pupil sizes were determined and a threshold was found which together with heuristics discriminated normal from abnormal curvature. Remaining boundary points were fit with an ellipse using a least squares error criterion. The center of the ellipse is an estimate of the pupil center. This technique is robust and accurately estimates pupil center with less than 40% of the pupil boundary points visible.
How do our brains represent distinct objects in consciousness? In order to consciously distinguish between objects, our brains somehow selectively bind together activity patterns of spatially intermingled neurons that simultaneously represent similar and dissimilar features of distinct objects. Gamma-band synchronous oscillations (GSO) of neuroelectrical activity have been hypothesized to be a mechanism used by our brains to generate and bind conscious sensations to represent distinct objects. Most experiments relating GSO to specific features of consciousness have been published only in the last several years. This brief review focuses on a wide variety experiments in which animals, including humans, discriminate between sensory stimuli and make these discriminations evident in their behavior. Performance of these tasks, in humans, is invariably accompanied by conscious awareness of both stimuli and behavior. Results of these experiments indicate that specific patterns of GSO correlate closely with specific aspects of conscious sensorimotor processing. That is, GSO appear to be closely correlated with neural generation of our most paradigmatic cognitive state: consciousness.

Knowledge regarding the pathogenesis of viral encephalitis, defined as inflammation and destruction of the central nervous system (CNS) from viral infection and the resulting immune response, has improved with advances in molecular biology techniques and recent advances in immunology and neuroscience research. An increasingly complex understanding has developed with regard to viral CNS infection. In addition to advances in viral genetics exploring increased viral spread and neurovirulence, improved understanding from research on neurochemistry, neurodevelopment, and cytokine expression in the CNS has led to new hypotheses regarding the mechanism of CNS damage during viral CNS infection. This review explores three advances in the understanding of viral encephalitis in the past few years: 1) the relationship between viral load and extent of viral CNS disease, 2) chemokines and their role in the CNS inflammatory response as well as in the pathogenesis of encephalitis, and 3) secondary damage from the release of neurotoxins during encephalitis. By examining this research, the reviewers intend to introduce novel therapeutic modalities that are developing for the management of patients with viral encephalitis beyond the timely use of antiviral therapy.
Studies of the cellular and molecular mechanisms of memory formation have focused on the role of long-lasting forms of synaptic plasticity such as long-term potentiation (LTP). A combination of genetic, electrophysiological and behavioral techniques have been used to examine the possibility that LTP is a cellular mechanism of memory storage in the mammalian brain. Although a definitive answer remains elusive, it is clear that in many cases manipulations that alter LTP alter memory, and training regimens that produce memory can produce LTP-like potentiation of synaptic transmission.
Dendritic spines are distinguished by their shapes, subcellular composition, and synaptic receptor subtypes. Recent studies show that actin-dependent movements take place in spine heads, that spines emerge from stubby and shaft synapses after dendritic filopodia disappear, and that spines can form without synaptic activation, are maintained by optimal activation, and are lost with excessive activation or during degeneration.
Protein kinase C has recently been shown to modulate the slow recovery from inactivation of Na+ channels in apical dendrites of hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons. Moreover, dendritic, A-type K+ channels have been found to be modulated by protein kinases A and C and by mitogen-activated protein kinase. The electrical signalling ability of these dendrites is thus highly regulated by a number of neurotransmitters and second-messenger systems.
Although the correlations between magnetic resonance findings and long-term disease evolution range from poor to moderate, conventional precontrast and postcontrast magnetic resonance imaging provides sensitive and reliable measures to monitor multiple sclerosis activity over time. New pulse sequences with shorter acquisition times can be cost effective and reduce patients' discomfort. The application of other techniques that give more accurate estimates of disease burden and have higher pathological specificity might improve our understanding of multiple sclerosis evolution and provide new outcomes for monitoring clinical trials. Work is still needed to obtain optimal imaging of the spinal cord for multiple sclerosis diagnosis and monitoring.
In this review, data is summarized supporting the hypothesis that axonal loss is a major pathologic process responsible for irreversible neurologic disability in patients with multiple sclerosis. Pathologic studies implicate inflammatory demyelination as a principal cause of axonal transection and subsequent axonal degeneration. Axonal degeneration caused by chronic demyelination in the absence of active inflammation may also contribute to progressive disability in the later stages of the disease. Studies using magnetic resonance spectroscopy suggest that axonal loss begins at the onset of the disease, and studies using magnetic resonance imaging have documented brain atrophy in the earliest stages of multiple sclerosis. Brain atrophy increases during the relapsing-remitting disease stage without concurrent disability progression. This suggests that compensatory mechanisms maintain neurologic function, despite progressive brain tissue loss during the early stages of the disease. Beyond a threshold, however, further axonal loss leads to continuously progressive neurologic disability. We hypothesize that the rate and extent of axonal loss during relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis determines when a patient enters the secondary progressive stage of the disease. This view of disease pathogenesis has several important implications. First, surrogate markers of axonal loss are needed to monitor the disease process for patient care and for clinical trials. We propose brain parenchymal fraction, a precise measure of whole-brain atrophy, as an attractive candidate for this purpose. Second, disease-modifying therapy should be used early in multiple sclerosis patients, before extensive axonal loss has occurred. Third, neuroprotective drugs should be tested in combination with anti-inflammatory drugs in multiple sclerosis patients. Finally, studies of the time course of axonal loss, and its mechanisms are critical for effective therapeutic intervention.
The Hedgehog (Hh) and Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) signaling pathways play critical roles in pattern formation and cell proliferation in invertebrates and vertebrates. In this study, we demonstrate a direct link between these two pathways in Drosophila melanogaster. Hh and EGFR signaling are each required for the formation of a specific region of the head of the adult fruitfly. We show that hh and vein (vn), which encodes a ligand of the Drosophila EGFR (Schnepp, B., Grumbling, G., Donaldson, T. and Simcox, A. (1996) Genes Dev. 10, 2302-13), are expressed in adjacent domains within the imaginal primordium of this region. Using loss- and gain-of-function approaches, we demonstrate that Hh activates vn expression. We also show that Hh activation of vn is mediated through the gene cubitus interruptus (ci) and that this activation requires the C-terminal region of the Ci protein. Finally, we demonstrate that wingless (wg) represses vn expression, thereby limiting the domain of EGFR signaling.
Spinal cord oligodendrocyte precursors arise in the ventral ventricular zone as a result of local signals. Ectopic oligodendrocyte precursors can be induced by sonic hedgehog (Shh) in explants of chick dorsal spinal cord over an extended developmental period. The role of Shh during normal oligodendrocyte development is, however, unclear. Here we demonstrate that Shh is localized to the ventral spinal cord immediately prior to, and during the appearance of oligodendrocyte precursors. Continued expression of Shh is required for the appearance of spinal cord oligodendrocyte precursors as neutralization of Shh signaling both in vivo and in vitro during a defined developmental period blocked their emergence. The inhibition of oligodendrocyte precursor emergence in the absence of Shh signaling was not the result of inhibiting precursor cell proliferation, and the neutralization of Shh signaling after the emergence of oligodendrocyte precursors had no effect on the appearance of additional cells or their subsequent differentiation. Similar concentrations of Shh induce motor neurons and oligodendrocytes in dorsal spinal cord explants. However, in explants from early embryos the motor neuron lineage is preferentially expanded while in explants from older embryos the oligodendrocyte lineage is preferentially expanded.

Bipolar disorder's unique combination of three characteristics - clear genetic diathesis, distinctive clinical features, early availability of an effective treatment (lithium) - explains its special place in the history of psychiatry and its contribution to the current explosive growth of neuroscience. This article looks at the state of the art in bipolar disorder from the vantage point of: (i) genetics (possible linkages on chromosomes 18 and 21q, polygenic hypothesis, research into genetic markers); (ii) diagnosis (new focus on the subjective aspects of bipolar disorder to offset the current trend of underdiagnosis due to overreliance on standardized interviews and rating scales); (iii) outcome (increase in treatment-resistant forms signaling a change in the natural history of bipolar disorder); (iv) pathophysiology (research into circadian biological rhythms and the kindling hypothesis to explain recurrence); (v) treatment (emergence of the anticonvulsants, suggested role of chronic antidepressant treatment in the development of treatment resistance); (vi) neurobiology (evaluation of regulatory function in relation to affective disturbances, role of postsynaptic second-messenger mechanisms, advances in functional neuroimaging); and (vii) psychosocial research (shedding overly dualistic theories of the past to understand the mind and brain as an entity, thus emphasizing the importance of balancing the psychopharmacological and psychotherapeutic approaches). Future progress in the understanding and treatment of bipolar disorder will rely on successful integration of the biological and psychosocial lines of investigation.
Limb lengthening by distraction osteogenesis has a high complication rate. Much of the response of muscle and nerve to distraction is still unknown. Thirteen children, mean age 12.6 yr (8.4-17.3) were surgically treated by the Ilizarov procedure for acquired and congenital femoral limb-length discrepancy. All children showed a decrease in muscle strength in the quadriceps, shortly after the operation, followed by an improvement before distraction started. After an elongation in the early phase of distraction (1 to 2 cm), muscle weakness was again observed and the muscle strength gradually increased after ending of distraction. To provide an explanation for this clinical observation, in one patient (limb lengthening of 4.1 cm) muscle strength measurements were extended with investigations of Hoffman (H) reflex of m. vastus medialis and determination of muscle-fiber conduction velocity of m. vastus lateralis by using the invasive method (IMFCV). The examinations were performed every two weeks during 20 weeks and 12 weeks after removing the cast. A severe decrease in muscle strength of the corrected limb was found after 1.2 cm of distraction with a recovery in muscle strength before lengthening was ended. EMG study showed the same tendency. Denervation was observed as evidence by positive sharp waves and reduced IMFCV findings. Evidence for reinnervation before lengthening was ended, was found by an increased range of velocities consisting of a combination of slow potentials and gradual increase of the velocity of reinnervated fibers (increased Fast/Slow ratio). The latencies of M waves and H-M interval from both legs separated as well after 2.25 cm of distraction. At the end of the follow-up period, the H-M interval reached the preoperative value. It is suggested that these neurogenic changes are an effect of axonal dysfunction and the local effect due to intraoperative trauma and stretching might affect nerve blood flow adversely.
The participation of hypothalamic neuropeptide Y (NPY)-, galanin (GAL)-, and opioid-producing neurons in the restraint on food intake exerted by adipocyte leptin has recently been recognized. To further understand the interplay between the central appetite-stimulating- and peripheral appetite-inhibiting signals in the management of daily food intake, we have examined the daily patterns in expression of the hypothalamic neuropeptides and leptin receptor (R) and adipocyte leptin gene expression and secretion in freely feeding (FF) rats. These analyses were extended to determine the impact of food restriction (FR) to 4 h daily for 4 weeks. Groups of FF and FR rats were killed at 4-h intervals during a 24-h period, and hypothalamic NPY, GAL, POMC, and leptin-R gene expression and leptin gene expression were evaluated by RNase protection assays and serum leptin and corticosterone (CORT) levels were estimated by RIA. The following new findings emerged: 1) In FF rats, hypothalamic NPY messenger RNA (mRNA) levels fluctuated during the course of 24 h with high levels at 0700 h and 1100 h followed by a decrease at 1500 h during the lights-on phase that was sustained throughout the dark phase (1900 h-0500 h) of the light-dark cycle. Hypothalamic GAL and POMC mRNA also displayed daily patterns but with a different time course; GAL and POMC gene expression were elevated 4 h later than NPY mRNA at 1100 h and 1500 h. 2) Although FR to 4 h between 1100 h and 1500 h resulted in maintenance of body weight compared with a steady weight gain in FF rats, the daily patterns of fluctuations in hypothalamic neuropeptide gene expression were abolished. 3) In FF rats, hypothalamic leptin-R and adipocyte leptin gene expression and serum leptin levels displayed a daily pattern temporally different from that of hypothalamic neuropeptide gene expression. Adipocyte leptin mRNA remained low during the lights-on phase but increased at the onset of the lights-off phase (1900 h) and remained elevated through the dark phase. 4) Hypothalamic leptin-R gene expression, like that of adipocyte leptin gene expression, rose abruptly at the onset of nocturnal feeding behavior but receded progressively to low range thereafter. 5) On the other hand, a dichotomy in the daily rise in adipocyte leptin gene expression and leptin secretion was observed in FF rats. Unlike adipocyte leptin mRNA, serum leptin increased at 2300 h, 4 h after initiation of ingestive behavior. 6) In FR rats, adipocyte leptin gene expression fluctuated little over the 24-h period but, as in FF rats, leptin hypersecretion peaked 4 h after initiation of food intake. 7) In both FF and FR rats, increased serum CORT levels preceded serum leptin rise. Overall, these results show that in FF rats, gene expression of hypothalamic appetite stimulating peptides first rise and then fall to nadir during the lights-on phase when leptin levels are in low range; adipocyte leptin mRNA rises before impending ingestive behavior and increased leptin secretion reaching peak manifests itself during nocturnal feeding. The FR regimen, which curtailed the normal body weight gain, abolished these daily fluctuations in gene expression of hypothalamic orexigenic peptides and adipocyte leptin but permitted feeding-associated increased leptin secretion. Thus, it may be important to consider the daily patterns of gene expression and availability of hypothalamic orexigenic peptides in investigations aimed at elucidating the central mechanisms underlying the feedback action of the normal and altered leptin secretion patterns.
During lactation, the levels of neuropeptide Y (NPY), which plays an important role in mediating food intake, are significantly elevated in a number of hypothalamic areas, including the arcuate nucleus (ARH). To identify additional hypothalamic systems that might be important in mediating the increase in food intake and alterations in energy homeostasis during lactation, the present studies examined the expression of agouti-related protein (AGRP), a recently described homologue of the skin agouti protein. AGRP is found in the hypothalamus and has been suggested to play an important role in the regulation of food intake. In the first experiment, animals were studied during diestrus of the estrous cycle, a stage of the cycle when estrogen levels are basal and similar to lactation, or during days 12-13 postpartum. Lactating animals had their litters adjusted to eight pups on day 2 postpartum. Brain tissue sections were used to measure AGRP messenger RNA (mRNA) levels by in situ hybridization. AGRP mRNA signal was found mostly in the ventromedial portion of the ARH, which has been shown to contain a high density of NPY neurons. A significant increase in AGRP mRNA content was observed in the mid- to caudal portion of the ARH of lactating animals compared with diestrous females. No difference was found in the rostral portion of the ARH. In the second experiment, double-label in situ hybridization for AGRP and NPY was performed in lactating animals to determine the extent of colocalization of the two peptides in the ARH, using 35S-labeled and digoxigenin-labeled antisense complementary RNA probes. It was found that almost all of the NPY-positive neurons throughout the ARH also expressed AGRP mRNA signal. Furthermore, AGRP expression was confined almost exclusively to NPY-positive neurons. Thus, the present study showed that during lactation, AGRP gene expression was significantly elevated in a subset of the AGRP neurons in the ARH. The high degree of colocalization of AGRP and NPY, coupled with previous reports from our laboratory demonstrating increased NPY expression in the ARH in response to suckling, suggests that AGRP and NPY are coordinately regulated and may be involved in the increase in food intake during lactation.
Lactation in the rat is characterized by the suppression of pulsatile LH secretion, a large increase in food intake, and changes in energy balance due to the metabolic drain of milk production. The change in energy balance may be a major component in altering reproductive function. A number of factors may contribute to changing energy balance of a lactating animal; one is leptin, the product of adipose tissue, which is known to act partly as a satiety factor to decrease food intake. The aims of the present study were to determine whether there are changes in leptin levels during lactation, a state of high energy demand, and during periods of acute suckling in the presence or absence of changes in energy demand. Our goals were to determine whether lactation and the suckling stimulus influenced serum leptin levels and whether there was a potential role for leptin in the suppression of LH secretion during lactation. The first experiment was performed during diestrus of the estrous cycle, and chronic lactation, (day 9 post partum) in animals suckling 8 pups. The results showed that leptin levels were significantly decreased in both ovarian intact or ovariectomized lactators; this decrease parallels the suppression of pulsatile LH secretion. Serum insulin levels were not altered in the lactating animals. The second experiment was performed in ovariectomized lactators whose 8 pup litters were removed for 48 h, starting on day 9. On day 11, mothers received no pups or pups that were either nonfostered (resulting in no milk production) or fostered (resulting in milk production). The pups were allowed to suckle for 24 h. Following 24 h of acute suckling, serum leptin, and insulin levels correlated with the energy drain on the mother. The levels of leptin were normal and of insulin were elevated in mothers producing no milk. Conversely, leptin levels were suppressed and insulin levels normal in mothers producing milk. The third experiment used the same groups as described for the second experiment except that serial blood samples were collected for measurement of pulsatile LH secretion following 24 h of acute suckling. The results showed that regardless of whether leptin levels remained normal or were suppressed in response to acute suckling, pulsatile LH secretion was significantly inhibited compared with the nonsuckled control animals. In summary, these data suggest that the metabolic drain of milk production, and not the suckling stimulus itself, is the most likely factor responsible for the suppression of leptin secretion during lactation. Furthermore, although the decreased levels of leptin may be causally related to the inhibition of pulsatile LH secretion during chronic lactation, changes in leptin are not a prerequisite for the suppression of LH secretion in response to suckling.

Polyamine contents were determined in human temporal lobe epilepsy. In the seven patients studied, stereoelectroencephalography (SEEG) located the epileptogenic focus in Ammon's horn and neuropathological findings were limited to hippocampal gliosis and sclerosis. Each polyamine exhibited a specific regional distribution. The most important variations were observed for spermidine and spermine while putrescine levels varied less. The regional variation was predominant in middle &gt; posterior &gt; anterior parts of the temporal lobe. Spermine contents and the spermidine/spermine (SPD/SPM) index varied especially in the middle and posterior parts of the hippocampus. Metabolic SPD/SPM index and spermidine levels were found to be drastically increased in almost all limbic parts when compared to neocortical regions. The opposite was observed for spermine. The heterogeneous distribution of polyamines was compared to abnormal electrical activities recorded by SEEG: SPD/SPM index and spermidine levels were sharply increased in seizure onset areas and high levels of spermine were detected in temporal cortex propagation areas. The presently reported heterogeneity of polyamine contents might contribute to modulate differentially the local control of excitability in human temporal epilepsy.
A new English instrument for screening mental health in children and adolescents, the Strengths and Difficulties Questionnaire (SDQ), was translated into Swedish and used for parental ratings of 900 children aged 6-10 years from the general population. The SDQ which comprises 25 items, divided into 5 subscales (prosocial, hyperactivity, emotional symptoms, conduct problems, and peer problems) was developed from the Rutter scales. An earlier English validation study has shown the two instruments to have equal ability to identify child psychiatric cases, but the SDQ also provides screening on empathy and prosocial behaviour which are aspects of child development emphasized in current child psychiatry. The design of the SDQ with both strengths' and difficulties' items supposedly increases acceptability of the instrument on behalf of informants and makes the questionnaire especially suitable for studies of general population where the majority of children are healthy. Our results, which are novel findings on the instrument, confirmed the postulated factor structure and showed significant gender-differences in results on the total scale, prosocial and hyperactivity subscales and on some of the single items. Moreover, our investigation showed that a Swedish translation of the parental version of the SDQ worked well.
Mast cells are traditionally recognized as round or oval connective tissue cells containing many specialized cytoplasmic granules. During recent years, more and more mast cell functions and properties have been clarified, and it is now evident that the mast cells are of different subtypes. The present study, utilizing chymase and tryptase immunofluorescence double-labelling and conventional electron microscopy techniques, has identified a kind of mast cells with obvious dendritic features in the lesional dermis of prurigo nodularis skin. This group of mast cell have enlarged cell bodies and contain fewer cytoplasmic granules, especially within certain dendrites. The morphological identification of such subgroups of mast cells could contribute to the understanding of mast cell heterogeneity.
In the striatum, DARPP-32 (dopamine- and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein of 32 kDa) is highly expressed by virtually all projection medium-sized spiny neurons. cAMP-dependent phosphorylation of DARPP-32 is stimulated via activation of dopamine D1 receptors in striatonigral neurons, and via activation of adenosine A2A receptors in striatopallidal neurons. In this study, we have examined the contribution of mu-, delta- and kappa-opioid receptors to the regulation of DARPP-32 phosphorylation, in rat striatal slices. The results show that, at low concentrations (100 pm-1 nm), the mu-opioid agonist, Tyr-D-Ala-Gly-N-Me-Phe-glycinol (DAMGO), inhibits the increase in DARPP-32 phosphorylation induced by activation of D1, but not by activation of A2A receptors. Conversely, the delta-receptor agonist, Tyr-D-Pen-Gly-Phe-D-Pen (DPDPE), inhibits DARPP-32 phosphorylation induced by activation of A2A, but not by activation of D1 receptors. The kappa-receptor agonist, U50488, does not affect DARPP-32 phosphorylation induced by either D1 or A2A agonists. Thus, mu-opioid receptors interact with dopamine D1 receptors on striatonigral neurons, whereas delta-opioid receptors interact with adenosine A2A receptors on striatopallidal neurons. These results suggest that regulation of DARPP-32 phosphorylation is involved in mediating some of the effects exerted by enkephalin on striatal medium-sized spiny neurons.
Arachidonic acid (AA) is proposed to be a facilitatory retrograde messenger in hippocampal glutamatergic synapses. In this study, we found that AA (10 microM) increased the basal outflow (19 +/- 4%) and the K+-evoked release of [3H]GABA (38 +/- 3%) from rat hippocampal synaptosomes. This effect is likely to be a direct action of AA, as it was not mimicked by arachidic acid (10 microM) and was not modified by inhibition of either lipooxygenase with nordihydroguaiaretic acid (50 microM) or cyclooxygenase with indomethacin (100 microM). Activation of protein kinase C may be involved, as chelerythrine (6 microM), a protein kinase C inhibitor, attenuated the AA (10 microM)-facilitation of K+-evoked [3H]GABA release by 58 +/- 5%. Phospholipase A2 (2 U/mL), an enzyme that releases AA, and melittin (1 microM), a phospholipase A2 activator, mimicked the AA-facilitation of evoked [3H]GABA release (70 +/- 6% and 76 +/- 7% facilitation, respectively). These results show that exogenously added and endogenously produced AA increased basal outflow and K+-evoked release of [3H]GABA from rat hippocampal synaptosomes. Thus, AA can no longer be considered solely a facilitatory neuromodulator in the hippocampus, as this AA-facilitation of the release of the main inhibitory neurotransmitter may predominate under certain circumstances.
The purpose of the present study was to determine if terminals of identified group II muscle spindle afferents participate in axoaxonic synaptic arrangements and, if so, to investigate the transmitter content of presynaptic terminals in these arrangements. Group II muscle afferents supplying the gastrocnemius-soleus or semitendinosus muscles were identified in adult cats and stained intra-axonally with horseradish peroxidase. In total, three group II axons were labelled and processed for combined light and electron microscopy. Group II axons gave rise to collaterals which characteristically descended through the superficial dorsal horn and formed relatively sparse terminal arborizations in the dorsal horn (laminae IV and V) and more profuse arbors in the intermediate grey matter (laminae VI-VII). Forty boutons were examined through series of ultrathin sections and all but four were postsynaptic to other axon terminals. Occasionally, more than one axon was presynaptic to a single group II terminal. Immunogold studies showed that all axons in presynaptic apposition to group II boutons contained gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and also that glycine was colocalized in the majority of these axons. This evidence suggests that transmission from group II muscle afferents is under strong presynaptic inhibitory control and that it is mainly the subgroup of GABAergic interneurons with colocalized glycine which mediate this inhibition. Seventeen group II boutons were components of synaptic triads where the presynaptic axoaxonic bouton formed a synapse with the same dendrite as the group II axon. Therefore, a proportion of the interneurons which form axoaxonic synapses with group II axons are also likely to have postsynaptic inhibitory actions on target neurons of group II afferents.
Aberrant metabolism of the amyloid precursor protein (APP) is believed to be at least part of the pathogenic process in Alzheimer's disease. The carboxy-terminus of APP has been shown to interact with the Mint/X11 family of phosphotyrosine binding (PTB) domain-bearing proteins. It is via their PTB domains that the Mints/X11s bind to APP. Here we report the cloning of full-length mouse Mint2 and demonstrate that in primary cortical neurons, Mint2 and APP share highly similar distributions. Mint2 also colocalizes with APP in transfected CHO cells. In Mint2/APP-cotransfected cells, Mint2 reorganizes the subcellular distribution of APP and also increases the steady-state levels of APP. Finally, we demonstrate that Mint2 is associated with the neuritic plaques found in Alzheimer's disease but not with neurofibrillary tangles. These results are consistent with a role for Mint2 in APP metabolism and trafficking, and suggest a possible role for the Mints/X11s in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease.
We have examined whether the Semliki Forest virus (SFV) expression vector can be used to manipulate the exocytotic machinery in cultured hippocampal neurons. Autaptic responses were recorded in individually identified neurons which overexpressed either a non-synaptic protein, the transferrin receptor, or the synaptic SNARE protein SNAP-25 (synaptosomal-associated protein of 25 kDA). In neurons overexpressing the transferrin receptor, autaptic responses occurred in a similar proportion and had similar amplitudes (12-18 h postinfection) as in uninfected control neurons. With increasing time after the infection, an increasing proportion of the transferrin receptor-overexpressing neurons showed changes in the shape of the cell body, but the autaptic responses appeared normal as long as recordings could be performed (up to 30 h postinfection). In contrast, in SNAP-25-overexpressing neurons, the proportion of responding cells was reduced 12-18 h after the infection, and the amplitude of the autaptic current in responding neurons was also reduced. The sensitivity to exogenously applied glutamate was, however, unchanged. Biochemical analysis showed that 50% of the overexpressed SNAP-25 was palmitoylated. The levels of two other SNAREs, syntaxin and synaptobrevin (also called vesicle-associated membrane protein), were not affected. Our results indicate that the SFV vector can provide an effective tool to study the function of proteins participating in neurotransmitter release.
Pyramidal neurons of layer V in rat prefrontal cortex display a prominent fast afterdepolarization (fADP) and a muscarinic-induced slow afterdepolarization (sADP). We have shown previously that both of these ADPs are produced by the activation of calcium-dependent non-selective cation currents. In the present report we examine whether they represent two distinct currents. In most pyramidal neurons recorded with caesium gluconate-based intracellular solution, a calcium spike is followed by a fast decaying inward aftercurrent (IfADP). The decay of IfADP is monoexponential with a time constant (t) of approximately 35 ms. Administration of carbachol (10-30 microm) increases the time constant of this decay by approximately 80% and induces the appearance of a much slower inward aftercurrent (IsADP). IfADP recorded in control conditions and in the presence of carbachol increases linearly with membrane hyperpolarization. In contrast, the carbachol-induced IsADP decreases with membrane hyperpolarization. When the sodium driving force across the cell membrane was reduced, IfADP was found to reverse at around -40 mV whereas IsADP remain inward over the same voltage range tested. Finally, bath administration of flufenamic acid (100 microm-1 mm) selectively blocks the carbachol-induced IsADP without a significant effect on the amplitude of IfADP. These differences in the electrical and pharmacological properties of IfADP and IsADP suggest that they were mediated by two distinct non-selective cation currents.
Beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP) has been reported to be expressed in the CNS from the early stages of development. However, the functional role of APP during early development remains unclear. In the present study, we found that the secreted form of APP (sAPP) significantly enhanced proliferation of neural stem cells. Cells were prepared from 13-day embryonic rat neocortex, which was dissected with a Pasteur pipette to make cell clusters. After 12 h of cultivation in the medium without serum, cells around the centre of the cluster were still nestin-positive proliferative cells, i.e. neural stem cells. To determine whether the proliferation of cells was regulated by sAPP, cultures were treated with recombinant sAPP695, the secreted form of human APP695 produced by yeast. Both DNA synthesis and expression of proliferating cell nuclear antigen markedly increased after 5 h of sAPP695 addition. The enhancement of DNA synthesis by sAPP695 stimulation was blocked by the 22C11 monoclonal antibody specific for the amino-terminal region of sAPP. Then, we examined the effect of the amino-terminal fragment of sAPP and the epitope peptide of 22C11 antibody, and found that both of them also promoted DNA synthesis, suggesting that the amino-terminal region of sAPP is responsible for the biological activity. Our findings indicate the possibility that sAPP enhances proliferation of neural stem cells in vivo and plays an important role during the early CNS development.
Male rats show four to six penile erection episodes when put in the presence of an inaccessible receptive female for 80 min. These noncontact erections occur concomitantly with an increase in nitric oxide production in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus. This is shown by the increases in the NO2- and NO3- concentrations in the paraventricular dialysate obtained from these males by in vivo microdialysis. The NO2- concentration increased from 0.75 +/- 0. 10 microm to 2.89 +/- 0.39 microm and that of NO3- from 4.13 +/- 0. 58 microm to 9.5 +/- 1.2 microm. Morphine (0.5, 1 and 5 microg), given unilaterally into the paraventricular nucleus 15 min before the introduction of the receptive female, prevented the NO2- and NO3- increases, and noncontact erections, dose-dependently. In contrast, the kappa opioid receptor agonist U-69 593 (5 microg) was ineffective. The effects of morphine on NO2- and NO3-, and on noncontact erections, were prevented by the opiate receptor antagonist naloxone (10 microg) injected into the paraventricular nucleus 15 min before morphine. The NO2- and NO3- concentrations were also increased in the paraventricular dialysate of male rats during copulation, i.e. when in copula penile erections occurred. As found with noncontact erections, morphine, but not U-69 593, injected into the paraventricular nucleus prevented the NO2- and NO3- increases and impaired copulatory behaviour, and naloxone prevented these responses when given before morphine. Although some diffusion of the opiate to surrounding brain areas cannot be completely ruled out, the present results suggest that morphine acts through mu receptors in the paraventricular nucleus to impair noncontact erections and copulation. These effects of morphine are apparently mediated by a prevention of the increased nitric oxide production that occurs in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus of male rats during sexual activity.
The aim of the present study was to examine the effects of transection combined with tight ligation, and crush of the sciatic nerve on delta -opioid receptor and substance P immunoreactivities in the superficial spinal dorsal horn at different time points after injury. Both the delta -opioid receptor and substance P are primarily localised to primary afferent fibres and terminals. Seven days following transection and ligation, a slight decrease in both delta -opioid receptor and substance P levels was seen in laminae I and II. The maximal reduction appeared to take place around 4 weeks. Restoration of immunoreactivity was observed by 32 weeks, and by 1 year the levels were almost back to normal. Regarding crush injury, the reduction in both delta -opioid receptor and substance P immunoreactivities were less pronounced and recovery was faster than after transection injury. Already by 16 weeks, the levels were almost back to normal.These results show that peripheral nerve injuries dramatically reduce the levels of delta -opioid receptor and substance P immunoreactivities in the superficial dorsal horn after short survivals and demonstrate recovery after long survivals. Whether the marked reduction of delta -opioid receptors in the dorsal horn is involved in the decreased ability of opioid analgesics to alleviate neuropathic pain remains to be studied. Copyright 1999 European Federation of Chapters of the International Association for the Study of Pain.
The granins (secretogranins/chromogranins) are a family of soluble proteins stored and released from the secretory large dense-core vesicles of the synapse. Schizophrenia is a common and devastating brain disorder. Although the aetiology of schizophrenia is unknown, data are accumulating that synaptic disturbance or damage may be of importance. The objective of this study was to compare the levels of chromogranin A, B and C in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of patients with schizophrenia and healthy controls. CSF chromogranin levels were measured by RIA in 33 subsequent admissions of patients with psychotic disorder and in 31 healthy controls. The levels of CSF chromogranin A (11.8+/-3.0 vs 14.8+/-4.8 nmol/l, P=0.004), chromogranin B (3.4+/-0.49 vs 3.7+/-0.58 nmol/l, P=0.02), but not chromogranin C (70.2+/-15.7 vs 65.3+/-20.4 pmol/l, P=0.29) were lower in the schizophrenic patients than in the healthy controls. These data indicate that two widespread constituents of large dense-core vesicles, i.e. chromogranin A and chromogranin B, are altered in chronic schizophrenic patients.
Contact of the hand with a stationary surface attenuates postural sway in normal individuals even when the level of force applied is mechanically inadequate to dampen body motion. We studied whether subjects without vestibular function would be able to substitute contact cues from the hand for their lost labyrinthine function and be able to balance as well as normal subjects in the dark without finger contact. We also studied the relative contribution of sight of the test chamber to the two groups. Subjects attempted to maintain a tandem Romberg stance for 25 s under three levels of fingertip contact: no contact; light-touch contact, up to 1 N (approximately 100 g) force; and unrestricted contact force. Both eyes open and eyes closed conditions were evaluated. Without contact, none of the vestibular loss subjects could stand for more than a few seconds in the dark without falling; all the normals could. The vestibular loss subjects were significantly more stable in the dark with light touch of the index finger than the normal subjects in the dark without touch. They also swayed less in the dark with light touch than when permitted sight of the test chamber without touch, and less with sight and touch than just sight. The normal subjects swayed less in the dark with touch than without, and less with sight and touch than sight alone. These findings show that during quiet stance light touch of the index finger with a stationary surface can be as effective or even more so than vestibular function for minimizing postural sway.
We studied single-neuron activity in the prefrontal cortex (PF) while a monkey performed a task according to two different rules, termed conditional and spatial. The monkey viewed a video screen, and its task required a hand movement in response to the dimming of a light spot. There were four light spots on the screen: right, left, up, and down from the center. Only one of the four spots dimmed, and the degree of dimming was slight. Accordingly, the monkey needed to foveate the &quot;correct&quot; light spot to detect the dimming. A visual cue indicated which of the four light spots would be deemed correct and, thus, would dim on each trial. The sequence of events was as follows: a fixation spot appeared at the center of the screen; then, a cue appeared twice at one of the four potential target locations; then, the four target spots appeared; and, finally, one of them dimmed. Except for the color of an initial fixation point, the cues, their locations, and other events were identical for the conditional and spatial rules. The rules differed in one essential way. For the conditional rule, nonspatial attributes of the visual cue indicated which of the four light spots would dim, and the cue's location was irrelevant. For the spatial rule, the cue's location determined the correct target on that trial. The light spot at the location of the cue always dimmed, regardless of which cue appeared there. Our sample included 221 PF neurons showing significant task-related activity modulation, distributed among dorsal, dorsolateral, and ventral PF regions. Between one-third and one-half of the sample in each of those regions showed statistically significant activity differences that could be attributed to the rule. Selectivity for cues and/or their locations was common. However, there was no significant regional segregation of such selectivity. These data support the hypothesis that PF plays a role in the guidance of behavior according to previously learned rules.
A variety of inflammatory proteins has been identified in brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease. The current data suggest that the inflammatory processes are intimately involved in several crucial events in the pathological cascade. Immunohistochemical studies reveal that those parts of the brain wherein the amyloid-beta deposits are closely associated with a chronic inflammatory response are strongly related to the characteristic symptoms. An inflammation-based approach could also provide a valuable theoretical framework to study the influence of extracerebral factors (such as acute phase reactants) on the clinical course of Alzheimer's disease.
Extreme overreliance on the impaired forelimb following unilateral lesions of the forelimb representation area of the rat sensorimotor cortex (FL-SMC) leads to exaggeration of the initial cortical injury. Glutamate has repeatedly been implicated in the secondary processes leading to neuronal death following traumatic insult, chiefly because of the neuroprotective properties of excitatory amino acid antagonists in a variety of animal models of brain injury. The present study investigated the possibility that NMDA receptor-mediated processes are involved in use-dependent exaggeration of neuronal injury. Rats were fitted with one-sleeved casts that immobilized the intact forelimb for the first 7 days following FL-SMC lesion, a procedure previously shown to result in use-dependent exaggeration of injury and more severe and persistent limb-use deficits. In the present investigation, administration of MK-801 (1 mg/kg ip once daily on alternate days) during the casting period spared neural tissue surrounding the lesion and enhanced functional recovery of the impaired forelimb. These results suggest a role for NMDA receptor-mediated processes in use-dependent exaggeration of injury.
We studied the effects of different amino acid receptor antagonists and a calcium (Ca2+) channel blocker on the survival of embryonic tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-immunopositive nigral neurons grown under serum-free culture conditions. Ventral mesencephalic neurons were cultivated for 2 or 7 days. Following serum withdrawal on day 2, some cultures were treated with different concentrations of the noncompetitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist dizocilpine hydrogen maleate (MK-801), the competitive NMDA receptor antagonist 2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid, the competitive kainate/quisqualate receptor antagonist 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2, 3-dione, and the Ca2+ channel blocker flunarizine. Treatment with MK-801 or flunarizine increased the survival of TH-positive neurons after serum deprivation. These findings suggest a possible role for excitotoxicity in dopaminergic cell death which can be prevented by blocking the NMDA receptor or by inhibiting Ca2+ entry through voltage-gated channels.
A role for the antioxidants vitamin E and idebenone in decreasing retinal cell injury, after metabolic inhibition induced by chemical ischemia and hypoglycemia, was investigated and compared with oxidative stress conditions. Preincubation of the antioxidants, vitamin E (20 microM) and idebenone (10 microM), effectively protected from retinal cell injury after oxidative stress or hypoglycemia, whereas the protection afforded after postincubation of both antioxidants was decreased. Delayed retinal cell damage, mediated by chemical ischemia, was attenuated at 10 or 12 h postischemia, only after exposure to the antioxidants during all the experimental procedure. An antagonist of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, an inhibitor of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) or a blocker of L-type Ca2+ channels were ineffective in reducing cell injury induced by chemical ischemia, hypoglycemia or oxidative stress. Oxidative stress and hypoglycemia increased (about 1.2-fold) significantly the fluorescence of the probe DCFH2-DA, that is indicative of intracellular ROS formation. Free radical generation detected with the probe dihydrorhodamine 123 (DHR 123) was enhanced after oxidative stress, chemical ischemia or hypoglycemia (about 2-fold). Nevertheless, the antioxidants vitamin E or idebenone were ineffective against intracellular ROS generation. Cellular energy charge decreased greatly after chemical ischemia, was moderately affected after hypoglycemia, but no significant changes were observed after oxidative stress. Preincubation with vitamin E prevented the changes in energy charge upon 6 h posthypoglycemia. We can conclude that irreversible changes occurring during chemical ischemia mainly reflect the alterations taking place at the ischemic core, whereas hypoglycemia situations may reflect changes occurring at the penumbra area, whereby vitamin E or idebenone may help to increase cell survival, exerting a beneficial neuroprotective effect.
Recently, we demonstrated that prosaposin and prosaptides (peptides encompassing the neurotrophic sequence in prosaposin) prevent cell death and increase extracellular regulated kinase (ERK) phosphorylation and sulfatide content in primary Schwann cells or oligodendrocytes (Hiraiwa et al., 1997a). Here, we examine the effect of prosaptide on other myelin constituents, on Schwann cell morphology and proliferation, and characterize the time course of expression of prosaposin protein after sciatic nerve injury. After 24 h of treatment with 10 nM TX14(A), a 14-mer prosaptide, the specific activity of UDP-galactose:ceramide galactosyltransferase (GalT) in primary Schwann cells was increased by 150% over controls. Under the same conditions, the maximum content of sulfatide increased 3-fold over controls after 48 h of treatment. Northern blot analysis, probed with oligonucleotide sequences from the GalT and P0 cDNAs, revealed that the mRNA levels of GalT and P0 protein were elevated about 30 and 200%, respectively, over controls after 24 h of treatment with TX14(A). Treatment of primary Schwann cells with TX14(A) also induced a morphological change at 10 nM; the peptide-treated cells had a bipolar (spindle-shaped) appearance after 48 h of treatment, compared to control cells which were irregular and multipolar. TX14(A) did not induce cell proliferation, indicating that TX14(A), unlike IGF-I, is not mitogenic. After sciatic nerve transection, Western blot analysis demonstrated the presence of intact prosaposin in tubular fluid in a silicon chamber into which the proximal and distal nerve stumps were sutured. The concentration of prosaposin in the fluid was maximum after 9 days post-surgery and returned to normal after 28 days post-surgery. In uninjured and injured nerve, prosaposin immunolocalized to the smooth muscle of epineurial and endoneurial vessels. These findings indicated that sciatic nerve secreted prosaposin after injury and that prosaposin is a naturally occurring injury-repair protein which acts to prevent degeneration and to promote regeneration of peripheral nerves.
Endothelins (ETs) promote cytoskeletal actin reorganization of cultured astrocytes (Koyama and Baba, Neuroscience 61:1007-1016, 1994; Koyama and Baba, Glia 16:342-350, 1996). In this study, we examined the signal transduction involved in that activity of ETs. Immunoblot analysis with an anti-phosphotyrosine antibody showed that ET-3 (1 nM) increased tyrosine phosphorylation of 120 Kda and 70 Kda astrocytic proteins. The tyrosine phosphorylations of both proteins reached a maximum at 1 nM ET-3. In morphological examinations, ET-3 (1 nM) induced stress fibers, an organized F-actin structure, and focal adhesions in 0.5 mM dibutyryl cAMP (DBcAMP)-treated astrocytes within 30 min. Immunochemical staining of phosphotyrosine revealed that the newly formed focal adhesions possessed phosphotyrosine immunoreactivity. Phorbol 12-myristate 13 acetate (PMA, 100 nM), bradykinin (1 microM), angiotensin II (100 nM), and A23187 (5 microM) did not induce astrocytic stress fibers and had no obvious effects on tyrosine phosphorylation of 120 Kda and 70 Kda proteins. Tyrosine phosphorylation of astrocytic 120 Kda and 70 Kda proteins was stimulated by 1 mM sodium orthovanadate (VO4(3-)), a protein tyrosine phosphatase inhibitor. VO4(3-) promoted reorganization of stress fibers and focal adhesions in DBcAMP-treated astrocytes. Neither chelation of intra- and extracellular Ca2+ nor pre-treatment with pertussis toxin (PTX) affected the ET-induced tyrosine phosphorylation and stress fiber formation in cultured astrocytes. These results suggest a relationship between cytoskeletal actin reorganization and the tyrosine phosphorylation of astrocytic proteins by ETs.
Computational neuroscience is emerging as a new approach in biological neural networks studies. In an attempt to contribute to this field, we present here a modeling work based on the implementation of biological neurons using specific analog integrated circuits. We first describe the mathematical basis of such models, then present analog emulations of different neurons. Each model is compared to its biological real counterpart as well as its numerical computation. Finally, we demonstrate the possible use of these analog models to interact dynamically with real cells through artificial synapses within hybrid networks. This method is currently used to explore neural networks dynamics.
Low density cells can readily be enriched from thymus tissue both of children undergoing cardiac surgery and of older patients with myasthenia gravis, and can be cryostored in bulk. When fresh or thawed cells are cultured with granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor and stem cell factor with or without tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), they generate numerous cells with the characteristic ultrastructural, phenotypic and functional properties of dendritic cells. These proved to be very potent, both as stimulators of primary mixed leucocyte responses and as costimulators in oxidative mitogenesis. Especially after exposure to TNF-alpha, these dendritic cells also processed a natural epitope from a 437-residue polypeptide and presented it efficiently to an autoimmune T-cell clone (of T helper type 0 phenotype). Thus, immunostimulatory dendritic cells can be cultured in relative abundance from progenitors in infant and adult human thymus. Both are convenient sources of potent antigen-presenting cells of identifiable origins, e.g. for use in selecting human T-cell lines.
A pneumocele refers to an aerated sinus with either focal or generalized thinning of the bony sinus wall. Although the pathogenesis of a pneumocele is not yet known, it is presumed that increased intrasinusal pressure, due to a one-way valve between the nasal cavity and the affected sinus, is responsible for this condition. A 37-year-old man with frontal bossing, who underwent surgery for cosmetic reasons, is presented.
There is an ongoing debate in cognitive neuroscience about the time course and the functional independence of the different processes involved in encoding written language material. New data indicate very fast and highly parallel language analysis networks in the brain. Here we demonstrate a methodological approach to study the temporal dynamics of this network by searching for time periods where different task demands emphasize different aspects of the network. Multi-channel event related potentials (ERPs) were recorded during a semantic and a phonological reading task from 14 healthy subjects. Signals were analyzed exclusively on the basis of the spatial configuration of the electric potential distributions (ERP maps), since differences in these spatial patterns directly reflect changes in the configuration of the active sources in the brain. This analysis did not reveal any differences of the evoked brain electric fields between the two tasks up to 280 ms post-stimulus. The ERP maps then differed for a brief period between 280 and 380 ms, before they were similar again. The analysis of the maps using a global linear localization procedure revealed a network of areas, active in both tasks, that mainly involved the left postero-temporal and left antero-temporal regions. The left posterior activation was found already around 100 ms post-stimulus, indicating that language-specific functions appear early in time. We therefore conclude that phonological and semantic processing are essentially performed in both tasks and that only late decision-related processes influence the relative strength of activity of the different modules in the complex language network.

We performed Transcranial Doppler Monitoring to detect microembolic signals (MES) in 47 patients with moderate (30%-69%) carotid stenosis proven by selective angiography. We compared the occurrence of MES with the clinical characteristics of stenosis (symptomatic or asymptomatic) and the angiographic plaque features (nonulcerated, deep ulceration, superficial ulceration, ulceration with flap, or ulceration without flap). For these cases there was no indication for endarterectomy, nevertheless we thought it would be useful to identify risk subgroups that might benefit from surgical treatment. MES were detected in 17.9% of the stenoses with a prevalence (p &lt;. 01) in symptomatic cases (25%) compared to asymptomatic cases (14. 3%). There was a significant correlation of MES with plaque ulceration (p &lt;.01) and particularly with ulceration without flap (p &lt;.01). No difference between deep and superficial ulceration was observed. The availability of prospective data on this topic might be useful to select subgroups of patients with moderate carotid stenosis at risk for embolism.
The clinical and neuroradiological outcome of carbon monoxide (CO) intoxication was evaluated prospectively in 30 patients over a follow-up period of 3 years. Among the patients studied, 22 had been acutely exposed to CO while 8 were chronically exposed. One month after CO poisoning, 12 of the 22 patients with acute intoxication showed magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) abnormalities: 6 also had neurological sequelae and 6 were asymptomatic. The remaining 10 patients showed neither MRI abnormalities nor neurological sequelae. During the 3-year follow-up, 4 of the patients with both MRI abnormalities and neurological sequelae improved in both clinical features and MRI findings. One of the 6 asymptomatic patients with MRI abnormalities developed a progressive cognitive impairment 2 months after acute intoxication, with a concomitant severe worsening of the MRI lesions. Among the 10 patients with neither MRI abnormalities nor neurological sequelae, only 1 developed neurological sequelae after a clear period of 4 months. In the group of patients who experienced chronic CO intoxication, only 1 presented with a neuropsychiatric syndrome which improved at follow-up. Brain MRI showed white matter lesions which remained unchanged at control scan after 1 year. In conclusion, we observed that some patients with severe CO poisoning and neurological sequelae may fully regain normal functions after approximately 1 year. The presence of MRI lesions 1 month after CO poisoning did not accurately predict the subsequent outcome. The observation of a clear period longer than the usual 2-40 day interval in 2 patients should be considered for careful planning of follow-up and for prognosis in CO-poisoned patients.
Transcranial Doppler detection of microembolic signals has been described in several clinical conditions such as carotid stenosis, prosthetic heart valves, acute stroke, and carotid surgery. The importance of these events for clinical decision-making is still a matter of debate. The authors review the literature and report their personal experience on the clinical significance of microemboli detection.
The feedback problems of behind the ear (BTE), in the ear (ITE), and in the ear canal (ITEC) hearing aid categories have been investigated. All possible feedback paths (acoustical via vent, via tubing wall, mechanical, etc.) were converted to a single transfer function from the ear canal to the hearing aid microphone, here called the acoustic feedback equivalent (AFE). The attenuation of the AFE represents the maximum gain that can be used without the hearing aid starting to howl. Magnitude and phase responses of the AFE were identified on ten human subjects and on a Knowles ear manikin (KEMAR). The acoustic feedback via vent and leak between earmould and ear canal dominated the AFE. The transfer function from a reference point under the ear to the position of microphone of the different hearing aid categories was identified and used together with the AFE to calculate the maximum real ear aided gain (REAG) for the hearing aid categories. A model of the AFE, consisting of a fourth-order filter together with a delay, showed good agreement with the measured data.
Using standardized assessment instruments may help staff identify needs, problems and resources which could be a basis for nursing care, and facilitate and improve the quality of documentation. The Resident Assessment Instrument/Minimum Data Set (RAI/MDS) especially developed for the care of elderly people, was used as a basis for individualized and documented nursing care. This study was carried out to compare nursing documentation in three nursing home wards in Sweden, before and after a one-year period of supervised intervention. The review of documentation focused on structure and content in both nursing care plans and daily notes. The greatest change seen after intervention was the writing of care plans for the individual patients. Daily notes increased both in total and within parts of the nursing process used, but reflected mostly temporary situations. Even though the documentation of nursing care increased the most, it was the theme medical treatment which was the most extensive overall. A difference was seen between computer-triggered Resident Assessment Protocol (RAP) items, obtained from the RAI/MDS assessments, and items in the nursing care plans; the former could be regarded as a means of quality assurance and of making staff aware of the need for further discussions. The RAI/MDS instrument seems to be a useful tool for the dynamic process in nursing care delivered and as a basis for documentation. The documentation should communicate a patient's situation and progress, and if staff are to be able to use it in their everyday nursing care activity, it must be well-structured and freely available. The importance of continuing education and supervision in nursing documentation for development of a reliable source of information was confirmed by the present study.
Children diagnosed with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) frequently present difficulties performing tasks that challenge the central auditory nervous system. The relationship between ADHD and central auditory processing disorder (CAPD) is examined from the perspectives of cognitive neuroscience, audiology, and neuropsychology. The accumulating evidence provides a basis for the overlapping clinical profiles yet differentiates CAPD and ADHD as clinically distinct entities. Common and distinctive management strategies are outlined.

Muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) increases with head-down neck flexion (HDNF). The present study had three aims: 1) to examine sympathetic and vascular responses to two different magnitudes of HDNF; 2) to examine these same responses during prolonged HDNF; and 3) to determine the influence of nonspecific pressure receptors in the head on MSNA. The first experiment tested responses to two static head positions in the vertical axis [HDNF and intermediate HDNF (I-HDNF; approximately 50% of HDNF)]. MSNA increased above baseline during both I-HDNF and HDNF (from 219 +/- 36 to 301 +/- 47 and from 238 +/- 42 to 356 +/- 59 units/min, respectively; P &lt; 0.01). Calf blood flow (CBF) decreased and calf vascular resistance increased during both I-HDNF and HDNF (P &lt; 0.01). Both the increase in MSNA and the decrease in CBF were linearly related to the magnitude of the downward head rotations (P &lt; 0.01). The second experiment tested responses during prolonged HDNF. MSNA increased (from 223 +/- 63 to 315 +/- 79 units/min; P &lt; 0.01) and CBF decreased (from 3.2 +/- 0.4 to 2.6 +/- 0.04 ml. 100 ml-1. min-1; P &lt; 0.01) at the onset of HDNF. These responses were maintained throughout the 30-min period. Mean arterial blood pressure gradually increased during the 30 min of HDNF (from 94 +/- 4 to 105 +/- 3 mmHg; P &lt; 0.01). In a third experiment, head-down neck extension was performed with subjects in the supine position. Unlike HDNF, head-down neck extension did not affect MSNA. The results from these studies demonstrate that MSNA: 1) increases in magnitude as the degree of HDNF increases; 2) remains elevated above baseline during prolonged HDNF; and 3) responses during HDNF are not associated with nonspecific receptors in the head activated by increases in cerebral pressure.
A fundamental question in the field of circadian rhythms concerns the biochemical and molecular nature of the oscillator. There is strong evidence that circadian oscillators are cell autonomous and rely on periodic gene expression. In Drosophila, Neurospora, Aplysia, and vertebrates, circadian oscillators are thought to be based on molecular autoregulatory loops composed of transcription, translation, and negative feedback by proteins on nuclear transcription. By studying a mathematical model of molecular clocks based on this general concept, the authors sought to determine which features such clocks must have to generate robust and stable oscillations and to allow entrainment by external stimuli such as light. The model produced circadian oscillations as an emergent property even though a time delay in protein synthesis and rate constants of the feedback loop were much shorter than 24 h. Along with the delay in protein production, strong nonlinear interactions in macromolecular synthesis and nuclear feedback appeared to be required for the model to show well-behaved oscillatory behavior. Realistic phase-shifting patterns induced by external stimuli could be achieved by multiple mechanisms-namely, up- and downward perturbations of protein or mRNA synthesis or degradation rates. The model makes testable predictions about interactions between clock elements and mechanisms of entrainment and may help to understand the functions of the intricate molecular interactions governing circadian rhythmogenesis.
Nitric oxide (NO) regulates basal CBF. In a number of animal models NO has been implicated in the mediation of the regional changes in CBF (rCBF) that accompany neuronal activation (vasoneuronal coupling). However, some results in animal models have failed to confirm this finding, and the validity of extrapolation to man from animal data is uncertain. To determine the contribution of NO to basal global CBF and activation-induced changes in rCBF, the authors have performed quantitative H2(15)O positron emission tomography (PET) studies before and after administration of the non-isoform-specific NO synthase inhibitor, N(G)-monomethyl-L-arginine (L-NMMA), in 10 healthy male volunteers. Learning a novel sequence of finger movements was used as a paradigm to induce regional frontal cortex activation. The effect of NO synthase inhibition on the magnitude and pattern of activation was determined. Resting global CBF fell from 33.3 +/- 5.3 mL x 100 g(-1) x min(-1) at rest before L-NMMA, to 26.5 +/- 7.7 mL x 100 g(-1) x min(-1) after L-NMMA (P = 0.001). This fall was reversed by L-arginine administration. Learning sequential finger movements induced increases in rCBF in the left motor, right prefrontal, and bilateral premotor cortices. After NO synthase inhibition with L-NMMA, there was no change in this pattern of activation and no reduction in the magnitude of rCBF responses at the foci of maximal stimulation before and after L-NMMA. These findings confirm that NO production contributes to basal CBF regulation in man, but show that systemic NO synthase inhibition with L-NMMA does not impair regional vasoneuronal coupling.
The extracellular concentrations of glutamate and its co-agonist for the N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor, glycine, may be under the control of amino acid transporters in the ischemic brain. However, there is little information on changes in glycine and glutamate transporters in the hippocampal CA1 field of gerbils with transient forebrain ischemia. This study investigated the spatial and temporal expressions of glycine transporter 1 (GLYT1) and three glutamate transporter (excitatory amino acid carrier 1, EAAC1; glutamate/aspartate transporter, GLAST; glutamate transporter 1, GLT1) mRNA in the gerbil hippocampus after 3 minutes of ischemia. The GLYT1 mRNA was transiently upregulated by the second day after ischemia in astrocytelike cells in close vicinity to hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons, possibly to reduce glycine concentration in the local extracellular spaces. The EAAC1 mRNA was abundantly expressed in almost all pyramidal neurons and dentate granule cells in the control gerbil hippocampus, whereas the expression level in CA1 pyramidal neurons started to decrease by the fourth day after ischemia in synchrony with degeneration of the CA1 neurons. The GLAST and GLT1 mRNA were rather intensely expressed in the dentate gyrus and CA3 field of the control hippocampus, respectively, but they were weakly expressed in the CA1 field before and after ischemia. As GLAST and GLT1 play a major role in the control of extracellular glutamate concentration, the paucity of these transporters in the CA1 field may account for the vulnerability of CA1 neurons to ischemia, provided that the functional GLAST and GLT1 proteins are also less in the CA1 field than in the CA3 field. This study suggests that the amino acid transporters play pivotal roles in the process of delayed neuronal death in the hippocampal CA1 field.

To evaluate the possible influence of buspirone on sexual dysfunction in depressed patients treated with a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI), we analyzed data from a placebo-controlled trial designed to explore the efficacy of buspirone as add-on treatment for patients not responding to an SSRI alone. At baseline, all patients met the criteria for a major depressive episode according to DSM-IV and had received citalopram or paroxetine during a minimum of 4 weeks without responding to the treatment. Buspirone (flexible dosage, 20-60 mg/day) or placebo was added to the SSRI for 4 weeks; the mean daily dose of buspirone at endpoint was 48.5 mg (SD = 1.0). Sexual dysfunction was evaluated using a structured interview. Before starting medication with buspirone or placebo, 40% (47 of 117) reported at least one kind of sexual dysfunction (decreased libido, ejaculatory dysfunction, orgasmic dysfunction). During the 4 weeks of treatment, approximately 58% of subjects treated with buspirone reported an improvement with respect to sexual function; in the placebo group, the response rate was 30%. The difference between placebo and active drug treatment was more pronounced in women than in men. The response was obvious during the first week, with no further improvement during the course of the study. It is suggested that the effect of buspirone on sexual dysfunction is a result of a reversal of SSRI-induced sexual side effects rather than of an antidepressant effect of the drug.
Prevalence and risk factors for extrapyramidal syndromes (EPS) were investigated in a sample of 1,559 patients. The overall prevalence of EPS was 29.4% (N = 458). Among the EPS-diagnosed patients, parkinsonism as assessed by the presence of core parkinsonian symptoms (rigidity, tremor, bradykinesia) was present in 65.9% of patients (N = 302), akathisia in 31.8% (N = 145), and acute dystonia in 2.1% (N = 10). Old age and long-term neuroleptic drug (NL) treatment were significantly associated with EPS in both the univariate and the multivariate analyses, whereas no relationship was observed with average NL daily doses and current NL treatment. EPS was diagnosed in 50.2% of 285 patients with persistent tardive dyskinesia (TD). Distribution of EPS in patients with TD showed that tremor and akathisia were more frequent in peripheral TD cases than in orofacial TD cases. Furthermore, there was a stronger association of NL-induced parkinsonism with peripheral TD than with orofacial TD. This study suggests that the association between EPS and TD may be limited to specific subtypes of TD. Peripheral TD showed a higher association with parkinsonism and with akathisia, suggesting that these symptoms may share a common pathophysiology.
Two mucins, large carbohydrate-rich proteins, enter milk from the lactating cell surface by way of the milk fat globule membrane. These mucins relate to a number of practical considerations including physical and flavor properties of milk, mastitis and economically important traits of cattle, and diarrheal disorders of humans and calves (scours). A greater understanding and more effective use of the milk mucins will require additional research.
Ceramide is recognized as an intracellular mediator of cell growth, differentiation and apoptosis. Tumour necrosis factor, anti-fas antibody, radiation and anticancer drugs such as actinomycin D are known to induce apoptosis in several cell types through generation of ceramide by activation of the sphingomyelinase pathway or ceramide synthetase. In this study, we examined the occurrence of apoptosis in fibroblasts from patients with Farber disease and from sphingolipid activator protein-deficient (sap -/-) mouse. These cells accumulate ceramide as the result of genetic deficiency of acid ceramidase and the ceramidase activator (sap-D), respectively. Amounts of ceramide in fibroblasts from Farber patients and in fibroblasts from sap -/- mouse were increased 2.9-fold and 2.8-fold, respectively, over the level of controls. Despite the similar degree of ceramide accumulation, cells exhibiting apoptotic features were increased only in fibroblasts from the sap -/- mouse but not those from the Farber patients. Thymidine uptake of Farber fibroblasts was normal while that of sap -/- mouse fibroblasts was twice normal, consistent with the apparently normal growth and the different rates of apoptotic cell death in these two cell lines. These data suggest that intralysosomal accumulation of ceramide due to defective acid ceramidase or its activator may not play an important role as a mediator of apoptosis. The increased apoptosis in the cultured fibroblasts from the sap -/- mouse may be caused by mechanisms other than the ceramide accumulation. Although more frequent than normal, significant apoptotic cell death was not observed in sap -/- mouse brain in vivo.
Although the effects of various cytokines as regulators of hormone synthesis and production are well documented, the role for pituitary hormones as modulators of cytokine synthesis is not fully understood. In this study, we investigated the effect of pituitary hormones' depletion on cytokine synthesis after short- (21 days) and long- (35 days) term hypophysectomy (ST-HX and LT-HX, respectively). The expresssion of the proinflammatory cytokine interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and the anti-inflammatory cytokines IL-10 and transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) in the rat brain was studied using in situ hybridization. Our results indicate that IL-1beta mRNA-expressing cells were significantly upregulated at day 21 in hypophysectomized rats compared to sham-operated controls. This enhanced expression was also detected later at day 35 post hypophysectomy. However, TNF-alpha mRNA expression was significantly increased only at the later sampling interval. IL-10 mRNA-expressing cells were increased after long-term hypophysectomy compared to controls. TGF-beta mRNA-expressing cells were not increased after hypophysectomy. In conclusion, these results suggest a role for pituitary hormones in IL-1beta, TNF-alpha, and IL-10 synthesis.
Recently, in the course of our search for the prostacyclin receptor in the brain, we found a novel subtype, designated as IP2, which was finely discriminated by use of the specific ligand (15R)-16-m-tolyl-17,18,19,20-tetranorisocarbacyclin (15R-TIC) and specifically localized in the rostral part of the brain. In the present study, the tritiated compound 15R-[15-(3)H]TIC was synthesized and utilized for more specific research on IP2. The specificity of binding to rat brain regions was confirmed by use of several prostacyclin derivatives including 15S-TIC. Mapping of 15R- and 15S-[3H]TIC binding in adjacent pairs of frozen sections of rat brain demonstrated a quite similar pattern of distribution in almost all rostral brain regions, indicating that the regions may contain only the IP2 subtype. On the other hand, 15R-[3H]TIC binding was very faint as compared with 15S-[3H]TIC binding in the caudal medullary region. High densities of 15R-[3H]TIC binding sites were shown in the dorsal part of the lateral septal nucleus, thalamic nuclei, limbic structures, and some of the cortical regions. Scatchard plot analysis showed two components of high-affinity 15R-[3H]TIC binding in the rostral regions, one with a K(D) value at approximately 1 nM and the other with approximately 30 nM. These results strengthen our previous finding that a different subtype of prostacyclin receptor is expressed in the CNS, and the map with 15R-[3H]TIC obtained here could guide further studies on the molecular and functional properties of the IP2.
Mutations in the presenilin-1 (PS-1) and presenilin-2 (PS-2) genes account for the majority of cases of early-onset familial Alzheimer's disease (AD). Alternative splicing forms of the PS-1 and PS-2 gene products have previously been reported in fibroblast and brain tissue from both familial and sporadic AD patients, as well as from normal tissues and cell lines. We demonstrate here unusual alternative splicing of the PS-2 gene that leads to the generation of mRNA lacking exon 5 in human brain tissue. This product was more frequently detected in brain tissue from sporadic AD patients (70.0%; 21 of 30) than from normal age-matched controls (17.6%; three of 17). In cultured neuroblastoma cells, this splice variant was generated in hypoxia but not under other forms of cellular stress. Hypoxia-mediated induction of this splice variant was blocked by pretreatment of neuroblastoma cells with the protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide or antioxidants such as N-acetylcysteine and diphenyl iodonium, suggesting that hypoxia-mediated oxidant stress might, at least in part, underlie the alternative splicing of PS-2 mRNA through de novo protein synthesis. Furthermore, the stable transfectants of this splice variant produced the N-terminal part of PS-2 protein (15 kDa) and were more susceptible to cellular stresses than control transfectants. These results suggest the possibility that altered presenilin gene products in stress conditions may also participate in the pathogenesis of AD.
Mitochondria from different regions of the brain were prepared, and the activation of the mitochondrial permeability transition (MPT) by calcium was investigated by monitoring the associated mitochondrial swelling. In general, the properties of the MPT in brain mitochondria were found to be qualitatively similar to those observed in liver and heart mitochondria. Thus, swelling was inhibited by adenine nucleotides (AdNs) and low pH (&lt;7.0), whereas thiol reagents and alkalosis facilitated swelling. Cyclosporin A and its nonimmunosuppressive analogue N-methyl-Val-4-cyclosporin A (PKF 220-384) both inhibited swelling and prevented the translocation of cyclophilin D from the matrix to the membranes of cortical mitochondria. However, the calcium sensitivity of the MPT differed in mitochondria from three brain regions (hippocampus &gt; cortex &gt; cerebellum) and is correlated with the susceptibility of these regions to ischemic damage. Depleting mitochondria of AdNs by treatment with pyrophosphate ions sensitized the MPT to [Ca2+] and abolished regional differences, implying regional differences in mitochondrial AdN content. This was confirmed by measurements showing significant differences in AdN content among regions (cerebellum &gt; cortex &gt; hippocampus). Our data add to recent evidence that the MPT may be involved in neuronal death.
To elucidate the regulation of the rat dopamine transporter (rDAT), we established several PC12 variants overexpressing the rDAT. Treating these cells with a nicotinic agonist (1,1-dimethyl-4-phenylpiperazinium iodide, 30 microM) depolarized the plasma membrane potential from -31 +/- 2 to 43 +/- 5 mV and inhibited rDAT activity significantly in a calcium- and protein kinase C-independent manner. Membrane depolarization by a high external K+ concentration or two K+ channel blockers (tetraethylammonium hydroxide and BaCl2) also resulted in a marked inhibition of rDAT activity. Such inhibition of dopamine uptake is due to a reduction in Vmax, with no marked effect on the Km for dopamine. The potency of cocaine in inhibiting dopamine uptake was not significantly altered, whereas that of amphetamine was slightly enhanced by membrane depolarization. Removing extracellular Ca2+ or blocking the voltage-sensitive L-type calcium channels using nifedipine did not exert any significant effect on the inhibition of rDAT activity by depolarization. These data confirm that calcium influx on depolarization is not required for inhibition of the rDAT. Collectively, our data suggest that rDAT activity can be altered by a neurotransmitter that modulates the membrane potential, thus suggesting an exquisite mechanism for the fine-tuning of dopamine levels in the synapse.
We examined the effects of oxidative stress on rat cultured mesencephalic neurons and glial cells. Glial cells were more resistant to 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) and H2O2 toxicity than neurons. In glial cells, incubation with 6-OHDA and H2O2 induced a significant increase in the expression of gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase (the rate-limiting enzyme in glutathione synthesis) mRNA, which correlated well with increased TPA-response element (TRE)-binding activity. Furthermore, a subsequent elevation in cellular total glutathione content was also observed. In neurons, both agents decreased TRE-binding activity, and these cells failed to up-regulate the glutathione synthesis. We also examined the mechanisms of the neuroprotective effects of glial cells using a glia conditioned medium. Neurons maintained in glia conditioned medium up-regulated the level of TRE-binding activity, gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase mRNA expression, and total glutathione content in response to 6-OHDA or H2O2, and became more resistant to both agents than cells maintained in a normal medium. Neurons maintained in normal medium failed to up-regulate the glutathione synthesis. Our results suggest that transcriptional up-regulation of glutathione synthesis in glial cell appears to mediate brain glial cell resistance against oxidative stress, and that glial cells protect neurons via transcriptional up-regulation of the antioxidant system.
The expression of ionotropic glutamate receptor subunits in the motoneuronal pools of the hypoglossal nucleus was studied using specific antibodies against subunits of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate (AMPA), kainate and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) subtypes. The highest numbers of intensely immunolabelled motoneurons were found in the dorsal tier and caudoventromedial part of the hypoglossal nucleus with all antibodies except that against the GluR1 AMPA subunit. Labelling for the GluR1 subunit was weak except for caudally located groups of motoneurons which innervate tongue muscles related to respiratory activity. By contrast, most motoneurons were intensely immunostained with antibodies against GluR2/3 and GluR4 subunits of the AMPA subtype. The low staining observed using an antibody specific for the GluR2 subunit (which prevents Ca(2+)-entry through AMPA channels) strongly suggests that AMPA receptors in hypoglossal motoneurons are Ca(2+)-permeable. Immunolabelling for the GluR5/6/7 kainate receptor subunits was found in many motoneuronal somata as well as in thin axon-like profiles and puncta that resembled synaptic boutons. Most motoneurons were intensely immunostained for the NMDA receptor subunit NR1. These results show that the hypoglossal nucleus contains five heterogeneous pools of motoneurons which innervate functionally defined groups of tongue muscles. The uneven expression of the different receptor subunits analysed here could reflect diverse phenotypic properties of hypoglossal motoneurons which might be expected to generate different patterns of motor responses under different physiological or pathological conditions.
Climbing fiber afferents to the cerebellum, from the inferior olivary complex, have a powerful excitatory effect on Purkinje cells. Changes in the responsiveness of olivary neurons to their afferent inputs, leading to changes in the firing rate or pattern of activation in climbing fibers, have a significant effect on the activation of cerebellar neurons and ultimately on cerebellar function. Several neuropeptides have been localized in both varicosities and cell bodies of the mouse inferior olivary complex, one of which, calcitonin gene related peptide (CGRP), has been shown to modulate the activity of olivary neurons. The purpose of the present study was to investigate the synaptic relationships of CGRP-containing components of the caudal medial accessory olive and the principal olive of adult mice, using immunohistochemistry and electron microscopy. The vast majority of immunoreactive profiles were dendrites and dendritic spines within and outside the glial boundaries of synaptic glomeruli (clusters). Both received synaptic inputs from non-CGRP labeled axon terminals. CGRP was also present within the somata of olivary neurons as well as in profiles that had cytological characteristics of axons, some of which were filled with synaptic vesicles. These swellings infrequently formed synaptic contacts. At the LM level, few, if any, CGRP-immunoreactive climbing fibers, were seen, suggesting that CGRP is compartmentalized within the somata and dendrites of olivary neurons and is not transported to their axon terminals. Thus, in addition to previously identified extrinsic sources of CGRP, the widespread distribution of CGRP within olivary somata and dendrites identifies an intrinsic source of the peptide suggesting the possibility of dendritic release and a subsequent autocrine or paracrine function for this peptide within olivary circuits.
In order to investigate the possibility of whether or not the lymphocytes of patients with Alzheimer's Disease (AD) are in an activated state, blood mononuclear cells from 45 AD patients and 45 healthy age matched controls were immunophenotyped by measuring the expression of CD3, CD4, CD7, CD8, CD25, CD28, CD56 and HLA-DR by flow cytometry. Circulating and in-vitro-produced cytokines were also measured by ELISA tests. CD7 and CD8 were significantly decreased in AD patients (48.3% and 18.2%, respectively) when compared to healthy subjects (63.2% and 28.3%, respectively). A significant increase in the CD4, CD25 and CD28 antigen expression was also observed in the AD group (55.3% 24.8% and 65.1%) with respect to healthy subjects (44.5%, 10.3% and 54.3%). In addition there was a significant difference in the extent of apoptosis in lymphocyte culture, as measured by mean fluorescence intensity (MFI) of Fas antigen (CD95) expression on CD4+ T cells in 6 AD patients (MFI = 36% and 43%, by anti-CD3 and hyperthermia mediated-apoptosis, respectively) with respect to 6 healthy individuals (MFI = 24% and 31%, by anti-CD3 and hyperthermia mediated-apoptosis, respectively), as well as in T-cell proliferation assay. A decline of Fas antigen expression on CD8+ subset was observed in the AD group with both stimuli (19% and 28%) comparing to the control group (29% and 39%). No differences were observed on circulating cytokines and spontaneous in vitro production of proinflammatory interleukin 1beta (IL-1beta), Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), IL-6 and IL-10 cytokines. Lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated in vitro production of IL-1beta, TNF-alpha, IL-6 and IL-10 measured by a whole blood culture system was significantly higher in AD patients comparing to controls. Furthermore, the observed differences were more evident at late stages of disease. These findings suggest that immunological tests, based on lymphocyte immunophenotyping combined with pro-inflammatory cytokine determinations and measurement of apoptosis in peripheral blood might represent a useful tool to obtain more insight into the pathogenesis of AD and into the level of immune activation which could characterize the pathological state of lymphocytes from individual AD patients.
The anti-rheumatoid drug D-penicillamine (D-pen) has a reactive sulfhydryl group capable of modifying self antigens, and can provoke typical autoantibody-mediated myasthenia gravis (MG), especially in DR1+ individuals. We have selected T cell clones from one such patient that were highly specific for D-pen but not its L-isomer or D-cysteine. Moreover, they were restricted to HLA-DR1, had a Th1 phenotype and used TCR V alpha4.1, V beta6.1. They responded well to blood mononuclear cells prepulsed with D-pen either in the absence of serum or after chloroquine treatment, but not to autologous D-pen-pulsed B cell lines. Thus, D-pen may directly couple to distinctive peptides resident in surface DR1 molecules on circulating macrophages or dendritic cells.
We examined the treatment effects of two structurally distinct phosphodiesterase type IV (PDE IV) inhibitors, BBB022 and rolipram, in murine and rat models of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). Based on our data, we propose a mechanism of action which may supplement immunomodulatory effects of PDE IV inhibitors. In particular, PDE inhibitors promote elevation of intracellular cAMP levels, increasing the electrical resistance of endothelial monolayers by stabilizing intercellular junctional complexes. Such an effect on central nervous system (CNS) vascular endothelium has the potential to reduce disease severity in EAE, because both inflammatory cells and humoral factors readily cross a disrupted blood-brain barrier (BBB). In this report, we demonstrate the capacity of BBB022 and rolipram to decrease clinical severity of EAE. further, PDE IV inhibitors significantly reduced BBB permeability in the spinal cords of mice with EAE. These results provide evidence that PDE IV-inhibitors may exert therapeutic effects in EAE by modifying cerebrovascular endothelial permeability, reducing tissue edema as well as entry of inflammatory cells and factors.
Intracortical inhibition of the motor cortex was investigated using a paired pulse magnetic stimulation method in 14 patients with chorea caused by various aetiologies (six patients with Huntington's disease, one with chorea acanthocytosis, a patient with systemic lupus erythematosus with a vascular lesion in the caudate, three with senile chorea and three with chorea of unknown aetiology). The time course and amount of inhibition was the same in the patients as in normal subjects, suggesting that the inhibitory mechanisms of the motor cortex studied with this method are intact in chorea. This is in striking contrast with the abnormal inhibition seen in patients with Parkinson's disease or focal hand dystonia, or those with a lesion in the putamen or globus pallidus. It is concluded that the pathophysiological mechanisms responsible for chorea are different from those producing other involuntary movements.
It was long held that, following alterations in sensory input, structural changes in the primary visual cortex take place only in early life, during so-called &quot;critical periods.&quot; Recently, however, it has been established that, in adults, cortical maps in the brain are not fixed, and the cortex does not perform stereotyped operations. Instead, neuronal receptive fields in the cortex can reorganize following deactivation or an altered pattern of activation. Plasticity is essential for the normal adjustment of the brain to modifications in the sensory environment, and for improving perceptual skills and sensorimotor performances. It also plays a crucial role in recovery from damage to the visual system. Cortical remapping generates a filling-in of visual field defects. Consequently, it alters the image perceived. Cortical rearrangement following lesions in the visual pathways does not restore function to the destroyed tissue, but it helps to compensate for gaps in perception. In this review article, we focus on effects of plasticity in the adult visual cortex which are of major importance in the daily practice of neuroophthalmology. Cortical reorganization, together with resulting filling-in, affects the early recognition and evaluation of visual field defects. The importance of brain remapping in these matters is still largely underestimated by clinicians.
Recent studies suggest that the cognitive impairment associated with normal aging is due to neuronal dysfunction rather than to loss of neurons or synapses. To characterize this dysfunction, molecular indices of neuronal function were quantified in autopsy samples of cerebral cortex. During normal aging, the most dramatic decline was found in levels of synaptic proteins involved in structural plasticity (remodeling) of axons and dendrites. Alzheimer disease, the most common cause of dementia in the elderly, was associated with an additional 81% decrease in levels of drebrin, a protein regulating postsynaptic plasticity. Disturbed mechanisms of plasticity may contribute to cognitive dysfunction during aging and in Alzheimer disease.
NaCl and KCl are monovalent salts that can be discriminated behaviorally by hamsters on the basis of their tastes. We examined the effects of the passive Na+ channel blocker amiloride on responses to both of these salts in 34 taste-responsive neurons of the nucleus of the solitary tract (NST) in the hamster. The effects of amiloride were assessed with two different, commonly employed stimulus protocols. Additionally, concentration-response functions for each salt were measured in 37 neurons. Cells were characterized by their best response to (in M) 0. 03 NaCl, 0.1 sucrose, 0.003 HCl, 0.001 quinine hydrochloride, and 0. 1 KCl. In neurons classified as NaCl-best, amiloride reversibly blocked responses to both NaCl and KCl. In neurons classified as HCl-best, amiloride had no effect on either stimulus. In sucrose-best neurons, amiloride blocked the response to NaCl but not KCl. These results support the hypothesis that both salts are transduced by at least two different receptor mechanisms. In the NST, information arising from these different inputs is maintained in discrete populations of neurons. In addition to differences in amiloride sensitivity, the cell types also differed in their responses to the salts across concentration. At midrange salt concentrations, NaCl-best neurons were far more responsive to NaCl than KCl, whereas HCl- and sucrose-best neurons responded equivalently to the two salts at all concentrations. Because NaCl- and HCl-best cells cannot by themselves distinguish NaCl from KCl, it is the relative activity across these cell types that comprises the code for taste discrimination.
The flocculus and ventral paraflocculus are adjacent regions of the cerebellar cortex that are essential for controlling smooth pursuit eye movements and for altering the performance of the vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR). The question addressed in this study is whether these regions of the cerebellum are more globally involved in controlling gaze, regardless of whether eye or active head movements are used to pursue moving visual targets. Single-unit recordings were obtained from Purkinje (Pk) cells in the floccular region of squirrel monkeys that were trained to fixate and pursue small visual targets. Cell firing rate was recorded during smooth pursuit eye movements, cancellation of the VOR, combined eye-head pursuit, and spontaneous gaze shifts in the absence of targets. Pk cells were found to be much less sensitive to gaze velocity during combined eye-head pursuit than during ocular pursuit. They were not sensitive to gaze or head velocity during gaze saccades. Temporary inactivation of the floccular region by muscimol injection compromised ocular pursuit but had little effect on the ability of monkeys to pursue visual targets with head movements or to cancel the VOR during active head movements. Thus the signals produced by Pk cells in the floccular region are necessary for controlling smooth pursuit eye movements but not for coordinating gaze during active head movements. The results imply that individual functional modules in the cerebellar cortex are less involved in the global organization and coordination of movements than with parametric control of movements produced by a specific part of the body.
We examined interactions between the spinal networks that generate right and left rostral scratch motor patterns in turtle hindlimb motoneurons before and after transecting the spinal cord within the anterior hindlimb enlargement. Our results provide evidence that reciprocal inhibition between hip circuit modules can generate hip rhythmicity during the rostral scratch reflex. &quot;Module&quot; refers here to the group of coactive motoneurons and interneurons that controls either flexion or extension of the hip on one side and coordinates that activity with synergist and antagonist motor pools in the same limb and in the contralateral limb. The &quot;bilateral shared core&quot; hypothesis states that hip flexor and extensor (HF and HE) circuit modules interact via crossed and uncrossed spinal pathways: HF modules make reciprocal inhibitory connections with contralateral HF and ipsilateral HE modules and mutual excitatory connections with contralateral HE modules. It is currently unclear how much reciprocal inhibition between modules contributes to scratch rhythmogenesis. To address this issue, fictive scratch motor patterns were recorded bilaterally as electroneurograms from HF, HE, knee extensor (KE), and respiratory (d.D8) muscle nerves in immobilized animals. D3-end (low-spinal) preparations had intact spinal cords posterior to a complete D2-D3 transection. Unilateral stimulation of rostral scratch in D3-end turtles elicited rhythmic alternation between ipsilateral HF and HE bursts in most cycles; consecutive HF bursts were separated by complete silent (HF-OFF ) periods. D3-D9 and D3-D8 preparations received a second spinal transection at the caudal end of segment D9 or D8, respectively, within the anterior hindlimb enlargement. This second transection disconnected most HE circuitry (located mainly in segments D10-S2 of the posterior enlargement) from the rostral scratch network and thereby reduced the HE-associated inhibition of HF circuitry. Unilateral stimulation of rostral scratch in most D3-D9 and D3-D8 preparations evoked rhythmic or weakly modulated ipsilateral HF discharge without HF-OFF periods between bursts and without ipsilateral HE activity in the majority of cycles. In contrast, bilateral stimulation in D3-D9 and D3-D8 preparations reconstructed the HF-OFF periods, increased HF rhythmicity (assessed by fast Fourier transform power spectra and autocorrelation analyses), and reestablished weak HE-phase motoneuron activity. We suggest that bilateral stimulation produced these effects by simultaneously activating reciprocally inhibitory hip modules on opposite sides (right and left HF) and the same side (HF and residual ipsilateral HE circuitry). Our data support the hypothesis that reciprocal inhibition can contribute to spinal rhythmogenesis during the scratch reflex.
The mechanisms involved in rapidly turning during human walking were studied. Subjects were asked to walk at a comfortable speed and to turn toward the instructed direction as soon as they felt an electrical stimulus to the superficial peroneal nerve. Stimuli were presented repeatedly at random over 10- to 15-min periods of walking for turning in both directions. Electromyograms (EMGs), joint angular movements of the right leg, and forces under both feet were recorded. The step cycle was divided into 16 parts, and the responses to stimuli in each part were analyzed separately. Two turning strategies were used, depending on which leg was placed in front for braking. For example, to turn to the right when the right foot was placed in front, subjects generally altered direction by spinning the body around the right foot (spin turn). To turn left when the right foot was in front, subjects shifted weight to the right leg, externally rotated the left hip, stepped onto the left leg, and continued turning until the right leg stepped in the new direction (step turn). The step turn is easy and stable because the base of support during the turn is much wider than in the spin turn, so some subjects used it in all parts of the cycle. Initially, the deceleration of walking is similar to a rapid stopping task, which has been previously examined. The deceleration mechanism involves a sequence of distal-to-proximal activation of muscles on one side of the body (soleus, biceps femoris, and erector spinae). This pattern is similar to the &quot;ankle strategy&quot; used in postural control during forward sway. The control of foot placement in the swing leg and muscle activities for rotating the trunk in the stance leg occurred within a step after the cue. The action of ankle inverters and elevation of the pelvis by activity of gluteus medius may contribute to the control of trunk rotation. This activity was closely related to the timing of the opposite foot strike, independent of the part of the step cycle when the stimulus was applied. In most subjects, the turn was completed without resetting the underlying walking rhythm. This first EMG analysis of rapid turning shows how common strategies for postural sway and stopping can be combined with one of two turning strategies. This simplifies the complex task of turning at a random time in the step cycle.
The physiological properties including current-voltage relationships, firing patterns, and synaptic responses of the neurons in the ventral nucleus of the lateral lemniscus (VNLL) were studied in brain slices taken through the young rat's (17-37 days old) auditory brain stem. Intracellular recordings were made from VNLL neurons, and synaptic potentials were elicited by electrical stimulation of the lateral lemniscus ventral to the VNLL. Current-voltage relations and firing patterns were tested by recording the electrical potentials produced by intracellular injection of positive and negative currents. There were two types of VNLL neurons (type I and II) that exhibited different current-voltage relationships. In response to negative current, both type I and II neurons produced a graded hyperpolarization. Type I neurons responded to positive current with a graded depolarization and multiple action potentials the number of which was related to the strength of the current injected. The current-voltage relations of type I neurons were nearly linear. Type II neurons responded to positive current with a limited depolarization and only one or a few action potentials. The current-voltage relations of type II neurons were nonlinear near the resting potential. The membrane properties of the type II VNLL neurons may play an important role for processing information about time of onset of a sound. Type I neurons showed three different firing patterns, i.e., regular, onset-pause and adaptation, in response to small positive current. The onset-pause and adaptation patterns could become sustained when a large current was injected. The regular, onset-pause, and adaptation patterns in type I neurons and the onset pattern in type II neurons resemble &quot;chopper,&quot; &quot;pauser, &quot; &quot;primary-like,&quot; and &quot;on&quot; responses, respectively, as defined in in vivo VNLL studies. The results suggest that different responses to acoustic stimulation could be attributed to intrinsic membrane properties of VNLL neurons. Many VNLL neurons responded to stimulation of the lateral lemniscus with excitatory or inhibitory responses or both. Excitatory and inhibitory responses showed interaction, and the output of the synaptic integration depended on the relative strength of excitatory and inhibitory responses. Neurons with an onset-pause firing pattern were more likely to receive mixed excitatory and inhibitory inputs from the lower auditory brain stem.
We have examined the rapid development of synaptic transmission at the neuromuscular junction (NMJ) in zebrafish embryos and larvae by patch-clamp recording of spontaneous miniature endplate currents (mEPCs) and single acetylcholine receptor (AChR) channels. Embryonic (24-36 h) mEPCs recorded in vivo were small in amplitude (&lt;50 pA). The rate of mEPCs increased in larvae (3.5-fold increase measured by 6 days), and these mEPCs were mostly of larger amplitude (10-fold on average) with (&lt;/=5-fold) faster kinetics. Intracellular labeling with Lucifer yellow indicated extensive coupling between muscle cells in both embryos and larvae (&lt;/=10 days). Blocking acetylcholinesterase (AChE) with eserine had no effect on mEPC kinetics in embryos at 1 day and only partially slowed (by approximately 1/2) the decay rate in larvae at 6 days. In acutely dissociated muscle cells, we observed the same two types of AChR with conductances of 45 and 60 pS and with similar, brief (&lt;0.5 ms) mean open times in both embryos and larvae. We conclude that AChR properties are set early during development at these early stages; functional maturation of the NMJ is only partly shaped by expression of AChE and may also depend on postsynaptic AChR clustering and presynaptic maturation.
Electrical stimulation of the horizontal limb of the diagonal band of Broca (HDB) was coupled with recording of evoked potentials in the piriform cortex. Stimulation of the HDB caused an enhancement of the late, disynaptic component of the evoked potential elicited by stimulation of the lateral olfactory tract but caused a suppression of the synaptic potential elicited by stimulation of the posterior piriform cortex. The muscarinic antagonist scopolamine blocked both effects of HDB stimulation. The enhancement of disynaptic potentials could be due to cholinergic depolarization of pyramidal cells, whereas the suppression of potentials evoked by posterior piriform stimulation could be due to presynaptic inhibition of intrinsic fiber synaptic transmission by acetylcholine.
Twenty-four slowly adapting type 1 (SA1) and 26 rapidly adapting (RA) cutaneous mechanoreceptive afferents in the rhesus monkey were studied with an array of independently controlled, punctate probes that covered an entire fingerpad. Each afferent had a receptive field (RF) on a single fingerpad and was studied at 73 skin sites (50 mm2). The entire array was lowered to 1.6 to 3.0 mm below the point of initial skin contact (the background indentation) before delivering indentations with one to seven probes. Indentations were generally limited to 100 microm to minimize gross mechanical interactions. There were two major, new findings. 1) The discharge rates of both SA1 and RA afferents were strongly affected by the number of probes indenting the RF simultaneously. The effect was exponential. Each increase in probe number reduced the response by 24% in SA1 and 12% in RA afferents on average. When seven probes indented the skin simultaneously, the impulse rates in SA1 and RA afferents were reduced to 20 and 40% of the rates evoked by a single probe at the hot spot (all indentations were 100 microm). This shows that before any synaptic interaction in the CNS there is already a mechanism analogous to surround inhibition that suppresses an afferent's responses to uniform indentation and makes it especially sensitive to deviations from spatial uniformity. 2) The responses of both SA1 and RA afferents were independent of background array depth over the range from 1.6 to 3 mm below the point of initial skin contact. This shows that the neural responses to elements raised above a background are independent of the applied force over a wide range of forces. To relate the background depths to indentation force and to compare humans and monkeys, we studied the biomechanics of indentation with a uniform surface. A remarkable result is that the force-displacement relationships in humans and monkeys were the same; the skin is highly compliant for the first 2-3 mm of indentation and then becomes much stiffer. The results were the same in alert humans and monkeys and in monkeys anesthetized with pentobarbital. Ketamine anesthesia made the skin much stiffer and reduced the compliant range substantially.
Twenty-four slowly adapting type 1 (SA1) and 26 rapidly adapting (RA) cutaneous mechanoreceptive afferents in the rhesus monkey were studied with an array of independently controlled, punctate probes that covered an entire fingerpad. Each afferent had a receptive field (RF) on a single fingerpad and was studied at 73 skin sites (50 mm2). The entire array was lowered to 1.6 mm below the point of initial skin contact (the background indentation) before delivering single-probe indentations. SA1 and RA responses differed in several ways. 1) SA1 RF boundaries were affected much less by indentation depth than were RA boundaries, and the SA1 RF areas were much more uniform in size. The mean SA1 RF area grew from 5.1 to 8.8 mm2 as the indentation depth increased from 50 to 500 microm; the mean RA RF area grew from 5.5 to 22.4 mm2 over the same intensity range. 2) SA1 RFs were more elongated than RA RFs. Elongated RFs were oriented in all directions relative to the skin ridges and the finger axis. 3) SA1 impulse rates were linear functions of indentation depth at all probe locations in the RF; RA responses tended toward saturation beginning at 100 microm indentation depth when the probe was over the HS. Similarities between SA1 and RA responses were that 1) both were extremely repeatable with SDs &lt; 1 impulse per trial and 2) both had population responses (number of impulses) that were nearly linear functions of indentation depth. However, SA1s represented increasing indentation depth by increasing impulse rates in a small, relatively constant group of afferents, whereas the RAs represented increasing indentation depth predominantly by the recruitment of new afferents at a distance.
Allothetic and idiothetic navigation strategies use very different cue constellations and computational processes. Allothetic navigation requires the use of the relationships between relatively stable external (visual, olfactory, auditory) cues, whereas idiothetic navigation requires the integration of cues generated by self-movement and/or efferent copy of movement commands. The flexibility with which animals can switch between these strategies and the neural structures that support these strategies are not well understood. By capitalizing on the proclivity of foraging rats to carry large food pellets back to a refuge for eating, the present study examined the contribution of the hippocampus to the use of allothetic versus idiothetic navigation strategies. Control rats and fimbria-fornix-ablated rats were trained to follow linear, polygonal, and octagonal scent trails that led to a piece of food. The ability of the rats to return to the refuge with the food via the shortest route using allothetic cues (visual cues and/or the odor trail available) or using ideothetic cues (the odor trail removed and the rats blindfolded or tested in infrared light) was examined. Control rats &quot;closed the polygon&quot; by returning directly home in all cue conditions. Fimbria-fornix rats successfully used allothetic cues (closed the polygon using visual cues or tracked back on the string) but were insensitive to the direction and distance of the refuge and were lost when restricted to idiothetic cues. The results support the hypothesis that the hippocampal formation is necessary for navigation requiring the integration of idiothetic cues.
Brain dopamine (DA) systems are involved in the modulation of the sensorimotor gating phenomenon known as prepulse inhibition (PPI). The class of D2-like receptors, including the D2, D3, and D4 receptor subtypes, have all been implicated in the control of PPI via studies of DA agonists and antagonists in rats. Nevertheless, the functional relevance of each receptor subtype remains unclear because these ligands are not specific. To determine the relevance of each receptor subtype, we used genetically altered strains of &quot;knock-out&quot; mice lacking the DA D2, D3, or D4 receptors. We tested the effects of each knock-out on both the phenotypic expression of PPI and the disruption of PPI produced by the indirect DA agonist d-amphetamine (AMPH). No phenotypic differences in PPI were observed at baseline. AMPH significantly disrupted PPI in the D2 (+/+) mice but had no effect in the D2 (-/-) mice. After AMPH treatment, both DA D3 and D4 receptor (+/+) and (-/-) mice had significant disruptions in PPI. These findings indicate that the AMPH-induced disruption of PPI is mediated via the DA D2 receptor and not the D3 or D4 receptor subtypes. Uncovering the neural mechanisms involved in PPI will further our understanding of the substrates of sensorimotor gating and could lead to better therapeutics to treat gating disorders, such as schizophrenia.
Auditory neurons of the anterior forebrain (AF) of zebra finches become selective for song during song learning. In adults, these neurons respond more to the bird's own song (BOS) than to the songs of other zebra finches (conspecifics) or BOS played in reverse. In contrast, AF neurons from young birds (30 d) respond equally well to all song stimuli. AF selectivity develops rapidly during song learning, appearing in 60-d-old birds. At this age, many neurons also respond equally well to BOS and tutor song. These similar neural responses to BOS and tutor song might reflect contributions from both song experiences to selectivity, because auditory experiences of both BOS and tutor song are essential for normal song learning. Alternatively, they may simply result from acoustic similarities between BOS and tutor song. Understanding which experience shapes selectivity could elucidate the function of song-selective AF neurons. To minimize acoustic similarity between BOS and tutor song, we induced juvenile birds to produce abnormal song by denervating the syrinx, the avian vocal organ, before song onset. We recorded single neurons extracellularly in the AF at 60 d, after birds had had substantial experience of both the abnormal BOS (tsBOS) and tutor song. Some neurons preferred the unique tsBOS over the tutor song, clearly indicating a role for BOS experience in shaping neural selectivity. In addition, a sizable proportion of neurons responded equally well to tsBOS and tutor song, despite their acoustic dissimilarity. These neurons were not simply immature, because they were selective for tsBOS and tutor song relative to conspecific and reverse song. Furthermore, their similar responses to tsBOS and tutor song could not be attributed to residual acoustic similarities between the two stimuli, as measured by several song analyses. The neural sensitivity to two very different songs suggests that single AF neurons may be shaped by both BOS and tutor song experience.
Much of what is known about activity-dependent plasticity comes from studies of the primary visual cortex and its inputs in higher mammals, but the molecular bases remain largely unknown. Similar functional plasticity takes place during a critical period in the visual cortex of the mouse, an animal in which genetic experiments can readily be performed to investigate the underlying molecular and cellular events. The experiments of this paper were directed toward understanding whether anatomical changes accompany functional plasticity in the developing visual cortex of the mouse, as they do in higher mammals. In normal mice, transneuronal label after an eye injection clearly delineated the monocular and binocular zones of area 17. Intrinsic signal optical imaging also showed monocular and binocular zones of area 17 but revealed no finer organization of ocular dominance or orientation selectivity. In normal animals, single geniculocortical afferents serving the contralateral eye showed great heterogeneity and no clustering consistent with the presence of ocular dominance patches. Growth and elaboration of terminal arbor continues beyond postnatal day 40 (P40), after the peak of the critical period. After prolonged monocular deprivation (MD) from P20 to P60, transneuronal labeling showed that the projection serving the ipsilateral eye was severely affected, whereas the effect on the contralateral eye's pathway was inconsistent. Optical imaging also showed profound effects of deprivation, particularly in the ipsilateral pathway, and microelectrode studies confirmed continued functional plasticity past P40. Reconstruction of single afferents showed that MD from P20 to P40 promoted the growth of the open eye's geniculocortical connections without causing the closed eye's contralateral projection to shrink, whereas MD from P20 to P60 caused an arrest of growth of deprived arbors. Our findings reveal numerous similarities between mouse and higher mammals in development and plasticity, along with some differences. We discuss the factors that may be responsible for these differences.
Activation of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascade recently was discovered to play an important role in synaptic plasticity in area CA1 of rat hippocampus. However, the upstream mechanisms regulating MAPK activity and the downstream effectors of MAPK in the hippocampus are uncharacterized. In the present studies we observed that hippocampal MAPK activation is regulated by both the PKA and PKC systems; moreover, we found that a wide variety of neuromodulatory neurotransmitter receptors (metabotropic glutamate receptors, muscarinic acetylcholine receptors, dopamine receptors, and beta-adrenergic receptors) couple to MAPK activation via these two cascades. In additional studies we observed that PKC is a powerful regulator of CREB phosphorylation in area CA1. MAPK plays a critical role in transcriptional regulation by PKC, because MAPK activation is a necessary component for increased CREB phosphorylation in response to the activation of this kinase. Surprisingly, we also observed that MAPK activation is necessary for PKA coupling to CREB phosphorylation in area CA1. Overall, these studies indicate an unexpected richness of diversity in the regulation of MAPK in the hippocampus and suggest the possibility of a broad role for the MAPK cascade in regulating gene expression in long-term forms of hippocampal synaptic plasticity.
The role of actin filaments in synaptic function has been studied in the CA1 region of the rat hippocampal slice. Bath application (2 hr) of the actin polymerization inhibitor latrunculin B did not substantially affect the shape of dendrites or spines. However, this and other drugs that affect actin did affect synaptic function. Bath-applied latrunculin B reduced the synaptic response. Several lines of evidence indicate that a component of this effect is presynaptic. To specifically test for a postsynaptic role for actin, latrunculin B or phalloidin, an actin filament stabilizer, was perfused into the postsynaptic neuron. The magnitude of long-term potentiation (LTP) was decreased at times when baseline transmission was not yet affected. Longer applications produced a decrease in baseline AMPA receptor (AMPAR)-mediated transmission. The magnitude of the NMDA receptor-mediated transmission was unaffected, indicating a specific effect on the AMPAR. These results suggest that postsynaptic actin filaments are involved in a dynamic process required to maintain AMPAR-mediated transmission and to enhance it during LTP.
Unlike many neuron populations, supraoptic nucleus (SON) neurons are rich in both nitric oxide synthase (NOS) and the NO receptor-soluble guanylyl cyclase (GC), the activation of which leads to cGMP accumulation. Elevations in cGMP result in increased coupling among SON neurons. We investigated the effect of NO on dye coupling in SONs from male, proestrus virgin female, and lactating rats. In 167 slices 263 SON neurons were recorded; 210 of these neurons were injected intracellularly (one neuron per SON) with Lucifer yellow (LY). The typically minimal coupling seen in virgin females was increased nearly fourfold by the NO precursor, L-arginine, or the NO donor, sodium nitroprusside (SNP). L-Arginine-induced coupling was abolished by a NOS inhibitor. In slices from male and lactating rats who have a higher basal incidence of coupling, SNP increased coupling by approximately twofold over control (p &lt; 0.03). SNP effects were prevented by the NO scavenger hemoglobin (20 microM) and by the selective blocker of NO-activated GC, ODQ (10 microM). These results suggest that NO released from cells within the SON can expand the coupled network of neurons and that this action occurs via cGMP-dependent processes. Because increased coupling is associated with elevated SON neuronal excitability, we also studied the effects of 8-bromo-cGMP on excitability. In both phasically and continuously firing neurons 8-bromo-cGMP (1-2 mM), but not cGMP, produced membrane depolarizations accompanied by membrane conductance increases. Conductance increases remained when depolarizations were eliminated by current-clamping the membrane potential. Thus, NO-induced cGMP increases SON neuronal coupling and excitability.
Although an association between the product of the familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD) gene, presenilin 1 (PS1), and beta-catenin has been reported recently, the cellular consequences of this interaction are unknown. Here, we show that both the full length and the C-terminal fragment of wild-type or FAD mutant PS1 interact with beta-catenin from transfected cells and brains of transgenic mice, whereas E-cadherin and adenomatous polyposis coli (APC) are not detected in this complex. Inducible overexpression of PS1 led to increased association of beta-catenin with glycogen synthase kinase-3beta (GSK-3beta), a negative regulator of beta-catenin, and accelerated the turnover of endogenous beta-catenin. In support of this finding, the beta-catenin half-life was dramatically longer in fibroblasts deficient in PS1, and this phenotype was completely rescued by replacement of PS1, demonstrating that PS1 normally stimulates the degradation of beta-catenin. In contrast, overexpression of FAD-linked PS1 mutants (M146L and DeltaX9) failed to enhance the association between GSK-3beta and beta-catenin and interfered with the constitutive turnover of beta-catenin. In vivo confirmation was demonstrated in the brains of transgenic mice in which the expression of the M146L mutant PS1 was correlated with increased steady-state levels of endogenous beta-catenin. Thus, our results indicate that PS1 normally promotes the turnover of beta-catenin, whereas PS1 mutants partially interfere with this process, possibly by failing to recruit GSK-3beta into the PS1-beta-catenin complex. These findings raise the intriguing possibility that PS1-beta-catenin interactions and subsequent activities may be consequential for the pathogenesis of AD.
Calcium enters the outer segment of a vertebrate photoreceptor through a cGMP-gated channel and is extruded via a Na/Ca, K exchanger. We have identified another element in mammalian cones that might help to control cytoplasmic calcium. Reverse transcription-PCR performed on isolated photoreceptors identified mRNA for the SII- splice variant of the type I receptor for inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate (IP3), and Western blots showed that the protein also is expressed in outer segments. Immunocytochemistry showed type I IP3 receptor to be abundant in red-sensitive and green-sensitive cones of the trichromatic monkey retina, but it was negative or weakly expressed in blue-sensitive cones and rods. Similarly, the green-sensitive cones expressed the receptor in dichromatic retina (cat, rabbit, and rat), but the blue-sensitive cones did not. Immunostain was localized to disk and plasma membranes on the cytoplasmic face. To restore sensitivity after a light flash, cytoplasmic cGMP must rise to its basal level, and this requires cytoplasmic calcium to fall. Cessation of calcium release via the IP3 receptor might accelerate this fall and thus explain why the cone recovers much faster than the rod. Furthermore, because its own activity of the IP3 receptor depends partly on cytoplasmic calcium, the receptor might control the set point of cytoplasmic calcium and thus affect cone sensitivity.
It has been repeatedly claimed that neuronal death in the hippocampal CA1 sector after untreated global ischemia occurs via apoptosis. This is based largely on DNA laddering, nick end labeling, and light microscopy. Delineation of apoptosis requires fine structural examination to detect morphological events of cell death. We studied the light and ultrastructural characteristics of CA1 injury after 5 min of untreated global ischemia in gerbils. To increase the likelihood of apoptosis, some ischemic gerbils were subjected to delayed postischemic hypothermia, a treatment that mitigates injury and delays the death of some neurons. In these gerbils, 2 d of mild hypothermia was initiated 1, 6, or 12 hr after ischemia, and gerbils were killed 4, 14, or 60 d later. Ischemia without subsequent cooling killed 96% of CA1 neurons by day 4, whereas all hypothermia-treated groups had significantly reduced injury at all survival times (2-67% loss). Electron microscopy of ischemic neurons with or without postischemic hypothermia revealed features of necrotic, not apoptotic, neuronal death even in cells that died 2 months after ischemia. Dilated organelles and intranuclear vacuoles preceded necrosis. Unique to the hypothermia-treated ischemic groups, some salvaged neurons were persistently abnormal and showed accumulation of unusual, morphologically complex secondary lysosomes. These indicate selective mitochondrial injury, because they were closely associated with normal and degenerate mitochondria, and transitional forms between mitochondria and lysosomes occurred. The results show that untreated global ischemic injury has necrotic, not apoptotic, morphology but do not rule out programmed biochemical events of the apoptotic pathway occurring before neuronal necrosis.
The neuroscience nurse's role in hypertensive management for patients with neurological injury can be challenging. This is especially true for patients whose cerebral autoregulation is affected by chronic hypertension or a cerebral insult. Hypertensive management involves more than the mere administration of medications. The nurse is responsible for monitoring the effects of drugs, lowering the blood pressure to a safe level and observing for any neurological deficits which may ensue from cerebral hypoperfusion. The nurse must collaboratively be able to determine if the patient's hypertensive episodes are caused by ineffective antihypertensives or a new cerebral insult. Knowledge of hypertension management helps maintain adequate cerebral perfusion and ultimate neurological functioning of the patient.
The cell membrane of astrocytes and oligodendrocytes is almost exclusively permeable for K+. Depolarizing and hyperpolarizing voltage steps produce in oligodendrocytes, but not in astrocytes, decaying passive currents followed by large tail currents (Itail) after the offset of a voltage jump. The aim of the present study was to characterize the properties of Itail in astrocytes, oligodendrocytes, and their respective precursors in the gray matter of spinal cord slices. Studies were carried out on 5- to 11-day-old rats, using the whole-cell patch clamp technique. The reversal potential (Vrev) of Itail evoked by membrane depolarization was significantly more positive in oligodendrocytes (-31.7+/-2.58 mV, n = 53) than in astrocytes (-57.9+/-2.43 mV, n = 21), oligodendrocyte precursors (-41.2+/-3.44 mV, n = 36), or astrocyte precursors (-52.1+/-1.32 mV, n = 43). Analysis of the Itail (using a variable amplitude and duration of the de- and hyperpolarizing prepulses as well as an analysis of the time constant of the membrane currents during voltage steps) showed that the Itail in oligodendrocytes arise from a larger shift of K+ across their membrane than in other cell types. As calculated from the Nernst equation, changes in Vrev revealed significantly larger accumulation of the extracellular K+ concentration ([K+]e) around oligodendrocytes than around astrocytes. The application of 50 mM K+ or hypotonic solution, used to study the effect of cell swelling on the changes in [K+]e evoked by a depolarizing prepulse, produced in astrocytes an increase in [K+]e of 201% and 239%, respectively. In oligodendrocytes, such increases (22% and 29%) were not found. We conclude that K+ tail currents, evoked by a larger accumulation of K+ in the vicinity of the oligodendrocyte membrane, could result from a smaller extracellular space (ECS) volume around oligodendrocytes than around astrocytes. Thus, in addition to the clearance of K+ from the ECS performed by astrocytes, the presence of the K+ tail currents in oligodendrocytes indicates that they might also contribute to efficient K+ homeostasis.
Expression of BMP- and GDF-related factors within the transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) superfamily was examined in the rat and mouse brain by in situ hybridization. Strong signals were obtained in neurons for GDF-1 and GDF-10. GDF-1 is expressed at postnatal day 6 in the cerebral cortex, hippocampal CA1 through CA3 neurons, while only weakly expressed by cells in the dentate gyrus. Granule cells and neurons in the polymorph layer of the dentate gyrus are GDF-1-positive, as are the majority of neurons in the cortex. GDF-10 shows a distinct pattern of expression: At P6, strong labelling was seen in the superficial layers of cortex, notably in the posterior cingulate cortex, and in CA3 and dentate gyrus. From postnatal day 21, GDF-1 expression is strong in the hippocampus, cortex, and thalamic nuclei, while GDF-10 expression becomes restricted to the granule cell layer in the dentate gyrus. In contrast, OP-1 expression is restricted throughout development to cells of the medial habenular nucleus, choroid plexus, and leptomeninges. The markedly different expression patterns of these BMPs suggest they serve separate functions in the brain.

Peptides related to melanotropin (alphaMSH) and corticotropin (ACTH), collectively termed melanocortins, are known to improve the postlesion repair of injured peripheral nerves. In addition, melanocortins exert trophic effects on the outgrowth of neurites from central nervous system neurons in vitro. Here we report, for the first time, the stimulation by alpha-MSH of spinal neurite outgrowth in vivo after injury. In the in vivo model, spinal cord trauma was produced at lower thoracic spinal levels of adult rats. Under a surgical microscope a laminectomy was performed exposing the dorsum of the spinal cord. Then the dura was cut longitudinally and the dorsal columns were identified. Iridectomy scissors were used to transect the dorsal half of the spinal cord bilaterally, thereby completely lesioning the main corticospinal tract component. Then the lesion gap was immediately filled with a solid collagen matrix. Ingrowth of fibers was quantified using an advanced image analyser using a video image of sections transmitted by a camera. In the control situation virtually no ingrowth of sprouting injured fibers into the collagen implant in the lesion gap was seen. However, when the collagen matrix contained 10(-8) M alpha-MSH, a profound and significant stimulation of fiber ingrowth into the implant was observed (alpha-MSH, 21.5 +/- 2.9%; control, 1.4 +/- 0.6% p &lt; 0.01). A small percentage of these ingrowing fibers was CGRP-immunoreactive (17.0 +/- 4%), whereas no serotonergic ingrowth was observed. Furthermore, we found that local application of alpha-MSH directs a substantial amount of lesioned anterogradely labelled corticospinal tract axons to regrow into the collagen implant (alpha-MSH, 15.2 +/- 5.2%; control, 0.5 +/- 0.3%, p &lt; 0.01). The observed fiber ingrowth is not accompanied by an invasion of astroglial or reactive microglial cells into the implant. In conclusion, inclusion of alpha-MSH in the collagen implant stimulates the regrowth of injured axons in the adult rat spinal cord.
In chronic stages of human spinal cord injury, atrophy of the cord has been reported in regions both at and distant to the injury site. Local cord atrophy results from the direct effects of bony impact and ischemia, whereas distant atrophy results from anterograde (Wallerian) and retrograde axonal degeneration. However, the actual extent of degenerative changes in the chronically injured human spinal cord both at and remote from the injury site has rarely been reported, and has not been rigorously quantified to date. In the present study, we quantified the extent of spinal cord atrophy in 12 humans with chronic injury (2-34 years posttrauma) utilizing quantitative stereological assessment of spinal cord magnetic resonance images, and compared the results to uninjured human spinal cords. Focal cystic atrophy of the cord, characterized by signal attenuation on T1-weighted images, was regularly present at the actual site of impact injury and replaced a mean longitudinal area equaling less than one spinal cord segment in length (2.01 +/- 0.60 cm2, or a loss of 89.3 +/- 17.4% of the longitudinal area of one spinal cord segment). Spinal cord segments immediately rostral to the zone of cystic degeneration showed atrophy of only 19.4 +/- 7.5% of normal cord longitudinal area, and spinal cord segments immediately caudal to the zone of cystic degeneration showed atrophy of 16.5 +/- 4.1% of normal cord longitudinal area. Extensive spinal cord atrophy extending beyond the region of injury occurred in two of twelve cases (16.7%), and both were caused by late syrinx formation. Thus, spinal cord atrophy after trauma remains primarily restricted to the original site of injury. Experimental neural repair strategies should take into account the importance of &quot;bridging&quot; relatively short zones of cystic atrophy, then promoting axonal regeneration through potentially long segments of remaining cord parenchyma.
The present study examined the role of the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM) in the modulation of acetylcholine (ACh) release by morphine. We examined the effect of morphine on the release of ACh in the RVLM of freely moving rats using the in vivo microdialysis method. The basal level of ACh was 303.0 +/- 28.2 fmol/20 microliter/15 min in the presence of neostigmine (10 microM). Morphine at a low dose of 5 mg/kg (i.p.) increased ACh release by the RVLM by 42.4%. A higher morphine dose (10 mg/kg i.p.) significantly increased the release of ACh by 75.4%, with a maximal effect (86.4%) at 75 min. This enhancement following i.p. administration of morphine was reversed by naloxone (1 mg/kg i.p.). Addition of morphine (10(-4) M) to the perfusion medium increased the ACh release by 85.8% of the predrug values. The increased ACh release induced by local application of morphine was reversed by pretreatment with naloxone (1 mg/kg i.p.). The antinociceptive effect of locally applied morphine into the RVLM was assessed using the hot-plate test and tail immersion test in unanesthetized rats. Local application of morphine (10(-4) M) via a microdialysis probe induced an increase in both tail withdrawal and hot-plate response. These findings suggest that morphine seems to exert a direct stimulatory effect on ACh release by the RVLM and that morphine-induced nociception is, in part, activated by the release of ACh in freely moving rats.
The dye ruthenium red (RuR) has diverse experimental uses, including block of ion channels. RuR is a well described antagonist of one class of intracellular Ca2+ release channels, the ryanodine receptors, but recently this compound has also been identified as a putative blocker of voltage-gated calcium channels of the surface membrane involved in neurotransmitter release. Using electrophysiological methods, we have studied the action of RuR upon pure populations of neuronal voltage-gated ion channels heterologously expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes. All four channel types studied, including class A (P/Q-type), class B (N-type), class C (L-type), and class E channels, are sensitive to RuR, with IC50 values ranging from 0.7 to 67.1 microM. Block of class C and class E channels most likely results from 1:1 binding of ruthenium red at a site in the extracellular entrance to the pore, resulting in obstruction of permeant ion flux through these channels. The mechanism of block of class A and class B channels is more complex, requiring binding of more than one molecule of RuR per channel.
Several variables have been reported to affect the expression of sex differences in the analgesic potency of morphine. Although the effect of genetic background on morphine analgesia has been well documented, the relevance of genotype to sex differences in morphine analgesia has rarely been considered. The present study investigated morphine dose-response relationships in male and female mice of 11 inbred mouse strains on the tail-withdrawal test after i.c.v. administration. Large differences in morphine analgesic potency were observed between strains, reflecting the important influence of genotype on this trait. We identified three strains (AKR/J, C57BL/6J, and SWR/J) in which males displayed approximately 3.5- to 7.0-fold greater sensitivities to the analgesic effects of morphine than did their female counterparts. In contrast, in the CBA/J strain, females were found to be approximately 5-fold more sensitive to morphine than were the males. In all other strains, morphine potency estimates between the sexes were not statistically different. These data support the importance of genotype, sex, and their interaction in the mediation of morphine analgesia and suggest that equivocal findings regarding opioid sex differences in the literature may be partially accounted for by the use of different subject populations. The fact that female mice of the AKR/J and CBA/J strains exhibit 35-fold different morphine analgesic potency and that males of these strains are equally sensitive should facilitate the mapping and identification of sex-specific genes of relevance to morphine analgesia.
1. Peristalsis was evoked in guinea-pig small intestine by slow fluid infusion and recorded onto video and digitized. Spatio-temporal maps of diameter and longitudinal movement were constructed and parameters of motion were calculated. 2. During the filling of the isolated segments of intestine, rhythmic local longitudinal movements were observed at several points along the preparation. These phasic longitudinal muscle contractions were associated with small but significant local increases in diameter and probably reflect a passive mechanical coupling by connective tissue in the gut wall. In addition, occasional synchronized longitudinal muscle contractions caused net shortening of the preparation and always preceded the onset of peristaltic emptying. 3. Peristaltic emptying was characterized by a contraction of the circular muscle which usually started at the oral end of the preparation, that propagated aborally, propelling the contents. However, in 19 % of trials, the first circular muscle contraction occurred in the aboral half of the preparation. 4. The propagation of peristalsis consisted of separate sequential circular muscle contractions several centimetres long, particularly in the oral half of the preparation, giving a 'step-like' appearance to the spatio-temporal map. The gut was transiently distended aboral to the propagating circular muscle contraction due to the propulsion of contents. 5. At each point in the preparation, the longitudinal muscle remained contracted during the propulsive part of the circular muscle contraction. Only when the circular muscle contraction became lumen occlusive did lengthening of the longitudinal muscle take place. 6. Spatio-temporal maps are a powerful tool to visualize and analyse the complexity of gastrointestinal motility patterns.
In this article, the effectiveness of an instructional videotape for newly admitted hospitalized psychiatric patients is discussed and evaluated. It is suggested that by using 'actors' with whom the patient is familiar (hospital staff), the educational and therapeutic benefit of the video is enhanced. This paper provides a method for pre-production planning of an effective videotape based on a four-part model. In this model, the educational subject matter is divided into four categories; facts, procedures, support, and mastery. An attempt is made to match various styles of presentation by each member of the treatment team to the nature of the part being presented. The short attention span common to newly admitted depressed patients, for example, is remedied by the use of concise messages delivered by each treatment team member. Although videotapes are not a substitute for one-to-one professional interaction, they can provide some basic understanding of the therapeutic environment and allay some of the fears that often plague the newly admitted patient. This paper also demonstrates how the use of videotaped instruction allows the treatment team to administer organized information using unlicensed personnel or the patient himself, thus conserving the professional staff's time.

The consequences of sleep and sleep deprivation at the molecular level are largely unexplored. Knowledge of such molecular events is essential to understand the restorative processes occurring during sleep as well as the cellular mechanisms of sleep regulation. Here we review the available data about changes in neural gene expression across different behavioural states using candidate gene approaches such as in situ hybridization and immunocytochemistry. We then describe new techniques for systematic screening of gene expression in the brain, such as subtractive hybridization, mRNA differential display, and cDNA microarray technology, outlining advantages and disadvantages of these methods. Finally, we summarize our initial results of a systematic screening of gene expression in the rat brain across behavioural states using mRNA differential display and cDNA microarray technology. The expression pattern of approximately 7000 genes was analysed in the cerebral cortex of rats after 3 h of spontaneous sleep, 3 h of spontaneous waking, or 3 h of sleep deprivation. While the majority of transcripts were expressed at the same level among these three conditions, 14 mRNAs were modulated by sleep and waking. Six transcripts, four more expressed in waking and two more expressed in sleep, corresponded to novel genes. The eight known transcripts were all expressed at higher levels in waking than in sleep and included transcription factors and mitochondrial genes. A possible role for these known transcripts in mediating neural plasticity during waking is discussed.
Sleep-wake problems are common in specific inborn errors of metabolism and structure of the central nervous system. Psychological factors, behavioural difficulties, metabolic disturbances, and widespread rather than focal damage to the nervous system are present in many of these diseases and all influence the sleep-wake cycle. However, a number of conditions cause relatively focal damage to the neuroanatomical substrate of sleeping and waking. These include fatal familial insomnia, with involvement of the prion protein gene on chromosome 20, Norrie disease, the Prader-Willi syndrome and the Moebius syndrome. The last three important conditions, although rare, are considered in detail in this review. They result in sensory deprivation, hypothalamic and mid-brain damage, and involve the X-chromosome, chromosome 15, and chromosome 13, respectively. These conditions cause a wide variety of sleep disturbance, including parasomnias, daytime sleepiness, and a condition like cataplexy. The place of the relevant gene products in normal sleep regulation needs further exploration.
Gelsolin-related amyloidosis (AGel amyloidosis) is a rare autosomal dominant disorder, reported worldwide in kindreds carrying a G654A or G654T gelsolin gene mutation. The main clinical signs are cutis laxa, cranial and peripheral neuropathy, and corneal lattice dystrophy but heavy intermittent snoring also occurs. To evaluate whether sleep apnoea is present we performed nocturnal sleep recordings, cephalometric and spirometric analyses and multiple sleep latency tests (MSLT) in five snoring patients with a G654A gelsolin gene mutation. Four patients had obstructive sleep apnoea syndrome (OSAS) with redundant oropharyngeal and hypopharyngeal soft tissues, macroglossia and cranial neuromuscular dysfunction. The fifth patient had hypersomnia without obstructive sleep apnoea. Nasal continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) was an effective treatment. This study presents the first evidence in favour of an association between AGel amyloidosis and OSAS, but further studies are needed to define the prevalence of OSAS and the pathogenetic roles of amyloid and variant gelsolin in its evolution.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) can be used to detect regional brain responses to changes in sensory stimuli. We have used fMRI to determine the amount of visual and auditory cortical activation in 12 normal subjects and 12 subjects with the narcoleptic syndrome, using a multiplexed visual and auditory stimulation paradigm. In both normal and narcoleptic subjects, mean cortical activation levels during the presentation of periodic visual and auditory stimulation showed no appreciable differences with either age or sex. Normal subjects showed higher levels of visual activation at 10:00 hours than 15:00 hours, with a reverse pattern in narcoleptic subjects (P = 0.007). The group differences in spatial extent of cortical activation between control and narcoleptic subjects were small and statistically insignificant. The alerting action, and imaging response, to a single oral dose of the sleep-preventing drug modafinil 400 mg were then determined and compared with placebo in both the 12 normal (8 given modafinil, 4 placebo) and 12 narcoleptic subjects (8 modafinil, 4 placebo). Modafinil caused an increase in self-reported levels of alertness in 7 of 8 narcoleptic subjects, but there was no significant difference between mean pretreatment and post-treatment activation levels as determined by fMRI for either normal or narcoleptic syndrome subjects given modafinil. However, in the modafinil-treated group of 8 normal and 8 narcoleptic subjects, there was a clock time independent correlation between the initial level of activation as determined by the pretreatment scan and the post-treatment change in activation (visual, P = 0.002; and auditory, P = 0.001). No correlation was observed in placebo-treated subjects (P = 0.99 and 0.77, respectively). Although limited by the small number of subjects, and the lack of an objective measure of alertness, the findings of this study suggest that low cortical activation levels in both normal and narcoleptic subjects are increased following the administration of modafinil. Functional magnetic resonance imaging may be a valuable addition to established studies of attention.
In order to evaluate learning and memory deficits separately from and simultaneously with motivational, motor and sensory impairments in identical animals, we developed the allocentric place discrimination task test using a water maze in rats. For this assessment task, two similar, visible platforms, one was fixed and the other was floating, were simultaneously present in a pool, and the working memory of the allocentric place discrimination task was evaluated. After training, the task accuracy was high about 85% correct and animals were used repeatedly. The accuracy decreased significantly when the pool was surrounded with a black curtain. Muscarinic receptor antagonist scopolamine 0.5 mg/kg selectively impaired the accuracy. Muscle relaxant dantrolene 10 mg/kg selectively decreased swimming speed. Under low motivational condition (warm water), still time increased and swimming speed decreased, but the accuracy was not affected. Similar to warm water, opioid receptor agonist morphine 15 mg/kg increased still time and decreased swimming speed. These results suggest that the allocentric place discrimination task is useful in evaluating spatial working memory ability independently of and concurrently with also visual, motor ability and motivation in identical animals.
Fibers of the global projection system ramify tremendously and distribute in the diverse region of the brain. Biogenic amines in the global projection system have been shown to facilitate formation and maintenance of synapses in the developing and adult brain. In terms of serotonin 5-HT2A receptor was shown to mediate the function of serotonin. We raised specific antibodies against 5-HT2A receptor protein. Virtually all the neurons in the cerebral cortex expressed 5-HT2A receptor. By using the function of biogenic amines to facilitate synapse formation and maintenance a novel approach can be developed in the neuroscience. That is to perturb biogenic amines, to change synaptic density, and to examine changes in the ability of learning and memory. Removing serotonin and acetylcholine for a week, at the maximum 58% of synapses are decreased in the hippocampus. The animals losing synapses spent a longer latency compared to intact animals in Morris water maze. The level of biogenic amines in the developing brain has been known to decrease tremendously by genetic diseases such as phenylketonuria, Down syndrome and autism as well as environmental factors such as nutrition and stress. In those situations synapses in the brain are suggested to be decreased. Synaptic mechanism for mental retardation and developmental disability by the cascade appears to contribute for understanding pathophysiology and a new therapy.
Methylating triazenes have shown marked antileukemic effects, possibly through generation of a variety of DNA adducts. Cells tolerant to O6-methylguanine due to a defect in the mismatch repair system (MRS), might become sensitive to other methyl adducts, by inhibiting the N-methylpurine repair, which requires base excision repair (BER) and poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PADPRP). Therefore, MRS-deficient Jurkat leukemic cells resistant to methylating triazenes, have been treated with temozolomide (TZM) and PADPRP inhibitors. Expression of PADPRP or molecules involved in the BER system [3-methylpurine-DNA glycosylase (MPG) and X-ray repair cross-complementing 1 (XRCC1)], have been explored. Cytotoxic effects of TZM associated with PADPRP inhibitors are evident shortly after treatment, suggesting that completion of cell division is not required for the lethal effect of the drug combination. Increase of PADPRP or MPG transcripts was found after treatment with TZM alone or combined with PADPRP inhibitor. XRCC1 transcript was positively modulated only in the case of drug combination. This could suggest that in the presence of PADPRP inhibitor, persistence of DNA damage triggers XRCC1 transcription. Our results suggest that association of TZM and PADPRP inhibitors might be of benefit for MRS-deficient malignancies unresponsive to the methylating agent.
A data acquisition and analysis protocol for quality control (QC) of functional magnetic resonance imaging studies is presented. Two sets of data are acquired, single-timepoint data for measurement of signal-to-ghost and signal-to-noise ratios, and multiple-timepoint data for measurement of short-term drift. Since manual data analysis can be time consuming and an impediment to regular QC, an automated data processing scheme is presented. The use of automated Shewhart charting is proposed to identify significant changes in each parameter over the long term. The protocol has successfully identified system faults and deteriorations undetected by conventional QC.
The applicability of displaced, split-echo, and phase-cycled variants of the blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) sensitized ultra-fast low-angle rapid acquisition and relaxation enhancement (UFLARE) technique for the mapping of brain function are examined in functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) experiments at high magnetic field strength (3 T). Activation maps are presented for visual and motor-sensory activation. For the visual studies the range of the stimulation-associated signal intensity changes is 5-7% in voxels containing mainly gray matter and 10-15% in voxels dominated by larger vessels. The motor studies reveal signal changes of 5-10% in the primary motor cortex and in the supplementary motor area. For gray matter, T2* increases from 31.2 +/- 1.5 msec under baseline conditions to 33.0 +/- 1.5 msec during periods of visual stimulation. The results clearly demonstrate that T2*-weighted UFLARE is a robust and reliable method for detection of brain activation. The relative pros and cons of displaced, split-echo, and phase-cycled T2*-sensitized UFLARE versions are discussed for fMRI applications. Since the susceptibility weighting can be freely adjusted from zero upward, the UFLARE variants used are particularly suitable for functional examinations in regions with poor magnetic field homogeneity and at high magnetic field strengths.
Neuroanatomical and neurofunctional studies are often referenced to high-resolution magnetic-resonance brain datasets. For the analysis of the cortical surface, mapping of functional information on to the cortex or visualization, it is necessary to remove the outer surfaces of the brain. For intersubject comparison, it is useful to align the dataset with a coordinate system and introduce a spatial normalization. We describe an image processing chain that combines all of these steps in an interaction-free procedure. We report on a period of 2 years of routine application of this procedure, with &gt;250 successfully processed datasets from healthy subjects and patients with various forms of brain damage.
Optical recording techniques provide a constantly evolving and increasingly powerful set of tools for investigations of cellular physiology. These techniques rely on the use of optical indicators, molecules that change their optical properties depending on the cellular parameter of interest. In this paper we discuss some of the general considerations involved in recording optical signals from multiple indicators. Specifically, we describe a technique for simultaneously recording transients of membrane potential and intracellular calcium concentration, two parameters that have a very complex interrelationship in neuronal functioning. This technique relies on the use of two fluorescent indicators (the voltage-sensitive dye RH-414 and the calcium-sensitive dye Calcium Orange) that have overlapping excitation spectra but separable emission spectra. This fact, in combination with the use of fast, spatially resolving photodetectors (10 x 10-element photodiode matrices), allows for truly simultaneous recording of these transients from brain slices with high spatial ( approximately 200 x 200 microm with a 10x microscope objective) and temporal ( approximately 500 micros) resolution. Furthermore, the quality of the signals obtained is sufficient to allow for recording of spontaneous synchronized activity such as epileptiform activity induced by the potassium channel blocker 4-aminopyridine. The nature of the signals obtained by these indicators recorded from guinea pig hippocampal slices and some applications of this technique are discussed.
Ascorbate and glutathione (GSH) are normally concentrated in brain cells at millimolar levels. However, both of these low-molecular-weight antioxidants are washed out of mammalian brain tissue during slice preparation and subsequent incubation. Ascorbate, which is not synthesized in the brain, can be added back to slices by active uptake from the incubation medium. Levels of GSH, on the other hand, are regulated by synthesis rather than uptake, and cannot be readily maintained in slices. Importantly, maintenance of brain slice ascorbate content at at least 50% of that in vivo, prevents the increase in slice water content that normally occurs during incubation. Slices with maintained ascorbate levels also have better histological characteristics than ascorbate-depleted tissue. The medium concentration of ascorbate sufficient to maintain content and inhibit edema formation is 400 microM, which is the normal concentration in brain extracellular fluid. This paper describes methods to maintain ascorbate levels in brain slices, including procedures to minimize oxidation in oxygenated incubation media. Also described is an HPLC analysis for ascorbate and GSH that is based on direct injection rather than extraction of samples.
Protein synthesis is an extremely important cell function and there is now good evidence that changes in synthesis play important roles both in neuronal cell damage from ischemic insults and in neural plasticity though the mechanisms of these effects are not at all clear. The brain slice, and particularly the hippocampal slice, is an excellent preparation for studying these effects although, as with all studies on slices, caution must be exercised in that regulation in the slice may be different from regulation in vivo. Studies on neural tissue need to take into account the heterogeneity of neural tissue as well as the very different compartments within neurons. Autoradiography at both the light and electron microscope levels is a very powerful method for doing this. Successful autoradiography depends on many factors. These include correct choice of precursor amino acid, mechanisms for estimating changes in the specific activity of the precursor amino acid pool, and reliable methods for quantitation of the autoradiographs. At a more technical level these factors include attention to detail in processing tissue sections so as to avoid light contamination during exposure and developing and, also, appropriate choices of the various parameters such as exposure time and section thickness. The power of autoradiography is illustrated here by its ability to discern effects of ischemia and of plasticity-related neural input on distinct cell types and also in distinct compartments of neurons. Ischemia inhibits protein synthesis in principal neurons but activates synthesis in other cell types of the brain slice. Plasticity-related neural input immediately enhances protein synthesis in dendrites but does not affect cell bodies.
This article describes methods and experimental paradigms used in combination with the rat hippocampal slice preparation in an attempt to better understand cerebral energy metabolism under the following conditions: normal resting conditions, conditions of oxygen and/or glucose deprivation, and conditions of activation (excitation). The outcome of this attempt, as described herewith, demonstrates the unmatched usefulness of the brain slice preparation as an in vitro tool in the field of neuroscience.
In recent years the potential use of neurotrophic factors in the prevention and/or treatment of neurodegenerative diseases has received much attention. To determine whether Cerebrolysin, a porcine brain-derived peptide preparation, was able to modulate in vitro lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced microglial activation and to test the direct effect of Cerebrolysin on astrocyte morphology, survival and proliferation, rat glial and astrocyte cell culture experiments were carried out. The morphology of microglia, ameboid/activated and flat/resting, was examined under contrast microscopy and cell counts obtained. In addition, the release of interleukin (IL)-1 beta and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) was measured from cell culture supernatant using an enzyme-linked-immunoassay (ELISA). The results obtained in this study clearly suggest a protective effect of Cerebrolysin as revealed by downregulation of microglial activation after LPS treatment as well as by the control of IL-1 beta expression. No significant differences were observed on astrocyte morphology, survival or the production and/or release of BDNF. In conclusion, these in vitro studies indicate that Cerebrolysin might exert a neuroimmunotrophic function which can in turn reduce the extent of inflammation and accelerate neuronal death under pathological conditions such as human neurodegenerative disorders.
Intracellular calcium levels were measured in Fura-2/AM loaded human platelets. Diamide (30 microM) reduced the Ca2+ response to serotonin (1 microM), but not to 4-bromo-A23187 (1 microM). The small reduction in the maximum fluorescence produced by diamide was not mirrored by a change in the sensitivity of Fura-2 pentapotassium salt to Ca2+. Changes in the spectral properties of Fura-2 thus cannot wholly explain the reduced serotonin response following diamide treatment. Hydrogen peroxide (500 microM) produced a steady increase in the observed fluorescence ratio that was partially inhibited by the phospholipase C inhibitor U-73122 (1.5 microM). In the absence of platelets, H2O2 reduced the Ca(2+)-sensitivity of Fura-2 pentapotassium salt, although it is not clear the extent to which this effect contributes to the reduction in the Ca2+ response to serotonin seen after H2O2. It is concluded that some caution may be warranted in the interpretation of the effects of H2O2 upon receptor-mediated Ca2+ signaling as measured using Fura-2.
A minimally invasive surgical technique is demonstrated to perform osteoplastic laminotomy. It consists of protection of the dural sac and the nerve roots with a rubber or silicone tube, cutting of the laminae with an oscillating saw and bilateral refixation of the laminae. This simple and safe technique, which has been used by the authors for six years, provides good stability of the spine postoperatively and helps to avoid post-laminectomy membrane formation.
The human telomerase RNA component (hTR) is present in normal somatic cells at lower levels than in cancer-derived cell lines. To understand the mechanisms regulating hTR levels in different cell types, we have compared the steady-state hTR levels in three groups of cells: (i) normal telomerase-negative human diploid cells; (ii) normal cells transfected with the human telomerase catalytic subunit, hTERT; and (iii) cells immortalized in vitro and cancer cells expressing their own endogenous hTERT. To account for the differences in steady-state hTR levels observed in these cell types, we compared the transcription rate and half-life of hTR in a subset of these cells. The half-life of hTR in telomerase-negative cells is about 5 days and is increased 1.6-fold in the presence of hTERT. The transcription rate of hTR is essentially unchanged in cells expressing exogenous hTERT, and the increased steady-state hTR level appears to be due to the increased half-life. However, the transcription rate of hTR is greatly increased in cells expressing endogenous hTERT, suggesting some overlap in transcriptional regulatory control. We conclude that the higher hTR level in cells expressing an endogenous telomerase can be a result of both increased transcription and a longer half-life and that the longer half-life might be partially a result of protection or stabilization by the telomerase catalytic subunit. The 4-week half-life of hTR in H1299 tumor cells is the longest half-life yet reported for any RNA.
Vascular endothelial cells are among the first cells that ventricular zone neuroblasts encounter during early development. The ventricular zone cells promote angiogenesis by the invading vasculature, with the release of endothelial mitogens. Yet the feedback support of young neurons by endothelial cells (ECs) has not hitherto been explored. We therefore asked whether ECs might participate in neuronal recruitment, by providing neurotrophic support to newly generated neurons. We used the neurogenic subependymal zone (SZ) of the adult rat forebrain as a model system, because of its well-characterized and relatively homogeneous population of neuronal precursor cells. We found that explants of the adult rat SZ raised on ECs generated more neurons, which survived longer, than explants raised on astrocytes, fibroblasts, or laminin. This endothelial trophic effect was humoral, in that it was also noted in SZ explants raised in noncontiguous coculture with ECs grown on porous inserts. RT-PCR for neurotrophin family members revealed that cultures of both human brain- and umbilical cord-derived ECs produced brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) mRNA, but no detectable NGF, NT-3, or NT-4 mRNA. ELISA revealed that BDNF protein was secreted by ECs into the medium at &gt;1 ng/ml. The neurotrophic effect of ECs could be replaced by added BDNF, and was blocked by addition of 5 microg/ml trkB-Fc to endothelial-SZ cocultures. Thus, endothelial cells can act as sources of secreted BDNF, through which the capillary microvasculature may act to support neuronal recruitment and survival in the CNS.
The 5-hydroxytryptamine type 3 (5-HT3) receptor is a transmitter-gated ion channel mediating neuronal excitation. The receptor native to neurons, or as a homopentameric assembly of 5-HT3A receptor subunits, displays a species-dependent pharmacology exemplified by a 1800-fold difference in the potency of (+)-tubocurarine [(+)-Tc] as an antagonist of the current response mediated by mouse and human receptor orthologs. Here, we attempt to identify amino acid residues involved in binding (+)-Tc by use of chimeric and mutant 5-HT3A subunits of mouse and human expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes. Replacement of the entire extracellular N-terminal domain of the mouse 5-HT3A (m5-HT3A) subunit by that of the human ortholog and vice versa exchanged the differential potency of (+)-Tc, demonstrating the ligand binding site to be contained wholly within this region. Mutagenesis of multiple amino acid residues within a putative binding domain that exchanged nonconserved residues between mouse and human receptors shifted the apparent affinity of (+)-Tc in a reciprocal manner. The magnitude of the shift increased with the number of residues (3, 5, or 7) exchanged, with septuple mutations of m5-HT3A and human 5-HT3A subunits producing a 161-fold decrease and 53-fold increase in the apparent affinity of (+)-Tc, respectively. The effect of point mutations was generally modest, the exception being m5-HT3A D206E, which produced a 9-fold decrease in apparent affinity. We conclude that multiple amino acids within a binding loop of human and mouse 5-HT3A subunits influence the potency of (+)-Tc.
Although activation of G protein-coupled inward rectifying K+ (GIRK) channels by Gi/Go-coupled receptors has been shown to be important in postsynaptic inhibition in the central nervous system, there is also evidence to suggest that inhibition of GIRK channels by Gq-coupled receptors is involved in postsynaptic excitation. In the present study we addressed whether the Gq-coupled receptors of the bombesin family can couple to GIRK channels and examined the mechanism by which this process occurs. Different combinations of GIRK channel subunits (Kir3.1, Kir3.2, and Kir3.4) and bombesin receptors (BB1 and BB2) were expressed in Xenopus oocytes. In all combinations tested GIRK currents were reversibly inhibited upon application of the bombesin-related peptides, neuromedin B or gastrin-releasing peptide in a concentration-dependent manner. Incubation of oocytes in the phospholipase C inhibitor U73122 or the protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitors chelerythrine and staurosporine significantly reduced the inhibition of GIRK currents by neuromedin B, whereas the Ca2+ chelator, BAPTA-AM had no effect. The involvement of PKC was further demonstrated by direct inhibition of GIRK currents by the phorbol esters, phorbol-12,13-dibutyrate and phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate. In contrast, the inactive phorbol ester 4alpha-phorbol and protein kinase A activators, forskolin and 8-bromo cAMP did not inhibit GIRK currents. At the single-channel level, direct activation of PKC using phorbol ester phorbol-12, 13-dibutyrate caused a dramatic reduction in open probability of GIRK channels due to an increase in duration of the interburst interval.
GABAA receptors in cerebellar granule cells are unique in expressing a subtype containing the alpha6 subunit. This receptor subtype has high affinity for GABA and produces a degree of tonic inhibition on cerebellar granule cells, modulating the firing of these cells via spillover of GABA from GABAergic synapses. This receptor subtype also has selective affinity for the diuretic furosemide over receptors containing other alpha-subunits. Furosemide exhibits approximately 100-fold selectivity for alpha6-containing receptors over alpha1-containing receptors. By making alpha1/alpha6 chimeras we have identified a transmembrane region (209-279) responsible for the high furosemide sensitivity of alpha6beta3gamma2s receptors. Within the alpha1 transmembrane region, a single amino acid was identified that when mutated from threonine to isoleucine, increased furosemide sensitivity by 20-fold. We demonstrate the beta-subunit selectivity of furosemide to be due to asparagine 265 in the beta2 and beta3 transmembrane-domain II similar to that observed with potentiation by the anticonvulsant loreclezole. We also show that Ile in transmembrane-domain I accounts for the increased GABA sensitivity observed at alpha6beta3gamma2s compared with alpha1beta3gamma2s receptors, but did not affect direct activation by pentobarbital or potentiation by the benzodiazepine flunitrazepam. Location of these residues within transmembrane domains leads to speculation that they may be involved in the channel-gating mechanism conferring increased receptor activation by GABA, in addition to conferring furosemide sensitivity.
Deafness can result from a variety of gene defects. Some genes involved in the physiology of hearing encode membrane transporters that regulate the ionic composition of the fluid bathing the inner ear. The endolymph is an extracellular fluid with an atypical composition that resembles the intracellular milieu, high in K+ and low in Na+. Recent studies have emphasized the prominent role of K+ channels in endolymph secretion and mechanical transduction. Coupled electroneutral transport of Na+, K+ and Cl- is mediated by two isoforms of the Na-K-2Cl co-transporter: the absorptive isoform BSC1 (also called NKCC2, encoded by Slc12a1 in mouse) that is exclusively expressed in kidney; and BSC2/NKCC1 (encoded by Slc12a2 in mouse), the secretory isoform which has a wider pattern of expression including epithelia, muscle cells, neurons and red blood cells. These co-transporters share 57% homology at the amino acid level and are pharmacologically inhibited by loop diuretics. There is functional and histochemical evidence for the presence of the secretory isoform of the Na-K-2Cl co-transporter in gerbil, rat and rabbit inner ear. We disrupted mouse Slc12a2 and report here that Slc12a2-/- mice are deaf and exhibit classic shaker/waltzer behaviour, indicative of inner-ear defects. We localized the co-transporter to key secreting epithelia of the mouse inner ear and show that absence of functional co-transporter leads to structural damages in the inner ear consistent with a decrease in endolymph secretion.
Most mammalian central neurons receive synaptic input over complicated dendritic arbors. Therefore, timing of synaptic information should vary with synapse location. However, I report that temporal summation at CA1 pyramidal somata does not depend on the location of synaptic input. This spatial normalization of temporal integration requires a dendritic hyperpolarization-activated current (lh). Shaping of synaptic activity by deactivating a nonuniform lh could counterbalance filtering by dendrites and effectively remove location-dependent variability in temporal integration, thus enhancing synchronization of neuronal populations and functional capabilities of the hippocampal CA1 region.

If permanent focal ischemia is induced by middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO), neurons within the infarcted territory die by necrosis and apoptosis (or programmed cell death). We have previously shown, using a mouse strain transgenic (tg) for the nerve growth factor (NGF) gene, that tg mice have consistently smaller infarcted areas than wild-type (wt) animals, correlated with upregulated NGF synthesis and impaired apoptotic cell death. We studied, in wt and tg mice subjected to MCAO, the activities of several antioxidant enzymes and the synthesis of the proteins of the Bcl-2 family. Our results show that the antiapoptotic Bcl-2 protein and glutathione peroxidase are recruited after MCAO. NGF-tg mice also had an intrinsic resistance to oxidative stress because their basal copper zinc superoxide dismutase (SOD) and glutathione transferase activities were high. Additionally, manganese SOD activity increased in NGF-tg mice after MCAO, correlating strongly with the resistance of these mice to apoptosis.
Exposure of mouse NB-2a neuroblastoma cells to genotoxic (etoposide or cytosine arabinoside) or nongenotoxic challenges (serum deprivation or okadaic acid) resulted in progressive cell death with biochemical and morphological characteristics typical of apoptosis. Apoptotic cell death induced by nongenotoxic agents was associated with the disintegration of nuclear DNA into high molecular weight (HMW) and oligonucleosomal-DNA fragments, while the formation of HMW-DNA fragments, but not oligonucleosomal-DNA ladder accompanied apoptosis induced by genotoxic agents. Combination of genotoxic and nongenotoxic insults, i.e. incubation of etoposide-treated cells in the serum-free medium, resulted in an additive effect on the profile of DNA disintegration, which involved both HMW fragmentation pattern as in etoposide alone treated cells and the oligonucleosomal-DNA ladder observed with serum-deprived cells. On the other hand, incubation of serum-deprived cells in the presence of Zn2+-ions led to the abrogation of internucleosomal DNA fragmentation but accumulation of HMW-DNA fragments. Differences in the pattern of DNA fragmentation were reproducible in a cell free apoptotic system after treatment of isolated normal nuclei with cytosolic extracts prepared from the cells treated with genotoxic or nogenotoxic apoptotic inducers. Cell free experiments also revealed that activities responsible for the formation of HMW- and oligonucleosomal-DNA fragments are separable in cytosolic extract prepared from the serum-deprived cells. Finally, DNA fragmentation induced by nongenotoxic apoptotic inducers was effectively prevented by cycloheximide and suramin, while both cycloheximide and suramin had only a slight inhibitory effect on DNA fragmentation induced by genotoxic agents. The results presented suggest that distinct pathways underlay disintegration of nuclear DNA during apoptosis induced by genotoxic and nongenotoxic inducers, and that the formation of HMW- and oligonucleosomal-DNA fragments proceeds via separate mechanisms in NB-2a neuroblastoma cells.
We have developed a neural system identification method for fitting models to stimulus-response data, where the response is a spike train. The method involves using a general nonlinear optimisation procedure to fit models in the time domain. We have applied the method to model bullfrog semicircular canal afferent neuron responses during naturalistic, broad-band head rotations. These neurons respond in diverse ways, but a simple four parameter class of models elegantly accounts for the various types of responses observed.
Nitric oxide (NO) has been implicated in the pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel disease since increased NO production is observed in this disease. NO can react with superoxide to generate peroxynitrite which causes and/or exacerbates colitis. Peroxynitrite, in turn, nitrates tyrosine residues to form nitrotyrosine which can be identified immunohistochemically. We investigated the distribution of neuronal and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and nitrotyrosine over time in experimental colitis. Colitis was induced by intracolonic administration of trinitrobenzene sulphonic acid (TNBS) in rats. Animals were killed 1, 2, 7 and 14 days after treatment. Myeloperoxidase activity was used as an index of inflammation, and tissues were examined using immunohistochemistry. Neuronal NOS immunoreactivity was present throughout the colon, and was only slightly reduced 1 day after the induction of colitis. Conversely, iNOS immunoreactivity almost absent in controls dramatically increased in the mucosa and submucosa at the early stages of inflammation. iNOS was present in monocytes and macrophages and also another unidentified cell type. Seven and 14 days after the induction of colitis, iNOS was also found in nerves in the circular muscle and in the myenteric plexus. Nitrotyrosine immunoreactivity present in a few cells in the normal mucosa also increased 1 day after the induction of colitis and decreased thereafter. The pattern of distribution of nitrotyrosine immunoreactivity was distinct from that of iNOS. The increase of iNOS expression at the early stage of inflammation may play a role in causing tissue injury via peroxynitrite formation. The expression of iNOS seen in the enteric nerves in the later stage of inflammation correlates temporally with the beginning of tissue repair and with the re-innervation and compensatory growth of nerves. NO may potentially play a physiological as well as pathological role in experimental colitis.
A deficiency of plasma antithrombin III has been identified as a potential risk factor for thrombosis. In a pilot study of 56 patients aged less than 40 years who presented with ischaemic stroke of unknown etiology, we detected only one case of plasma antithrombin III deficiency. Antithrombin III activity was estimated by a chromogenic assay. Hence, antithrombin III deficiency, though rare, should be considered while evaluating young patients with stroke of unknown etiology.
CSF rhinorrhoea is associated with high morbidity and mortality. Bone and dural defects may result from trauma or enlarging 'pitholes' or breach in lateral recess of sphenoid sinus. Unless surgically corrected, they tend to cause meningitis and rhinorrhoea. Unusually delayed rhinorrhoea is a diagnostic problem.
Moyamoya disease (MMD) is an uncommon entity outside Japan. Though the clinical and radiological features are well described, involvement of the posterior circulation has not been highlighted. Out of 10 patients of MMD studied, the posterior circulation was involved in 9 (3 bilateral, 6 unilateral). The P1 segment was most commonly affected. Interestingly, no infarcts were seen in the territory of the posterior circulation in any patient. Five patients showed recent haemorrhages on scan. It was thalamic haemorrhage in four and subarachnoid in one patient. The posterior circulation is frequently involved in MMD as evident on angiography. However, ischaemic events of the posterior circulation are not frequent, as the posterior circulation acts as collateral pathway for the diseased anterior circulation till later stages of the disease.
Trigeminal evoked potentials (TEP) were recorded by electrical stimulation of the lips in 7 patients with symptomatic trigeminal neuralgia due to CT proved mass lesions involving the trigeminal nerve. All the patients showed TEP abnormalities on the affected side. Chronic compression and irritation of the trigeminal nerve may be responsible for these changes. The results obtained were compared with other similar studies and TEP abnormalities observed in idiopathic trigeminal neuralgia. As all the patients had unequivocal compression of the trigeminal nerve and all of them had TEP changes, it can be concluded that TEP abnormality is an accurate predictor of trigeminal nerve compression. TEPs may be a valuable aid in demonstrating a compressive element in patients with trigeminal neuralgia.
Reversible electrophysiologic abnormalities of sensory nerve function were found by chance in three patients with hypokalemic periodic paralysis, a disorder previously considered to affect the function of muscle membranes only. A formal, prospective study was therefore conducted. Serial nerve conduction studies were done in ten additional patients. Amplitude of sensory action potentials was significantly smaller during paralytic attacks, but did not differ from controls after normalization of serum potassium concentration. These apparently novel findings might be explained by previous electrodiagnostic studies either not involving the testing of sensory nerves at all, or not being repeated after recovery from an attack. Involvement of sensory nerves in hypokalemic periodic paralysis is suggested to arise through dorsal root ganglia having an incomplete blood-nerve barrier and sensory neurons being particularly vulnerable to derangements affecting nerve cell metabolism. Neuronal inexcitability is postulated to occur consequent upon possible inactivation of the sodium-potassium pump by the low concentration of extracellular potassium. In patients with acute areflexic limb weakness, the diagnosis of hypokalemic periodic paralysis should not be excluded by abnormal results of sensory nerve conduction studies.
One hundred paediatric, muscle ultrasound examinations performed in the evaluation of suspected neuromuscular disease were reviewed. The results were related to the presence or absence of neuromuscular disease in each child assessed. The group comprised 66 males and 34 females, age range 2 months to 16 years (mean 5.3 years). Scans were graded I-IV, according to muscle echogenicity, using Heckmatt's criteria. Thirty-two children had a final diagnosis of neuromuscular disease. The sensitivity of ultrasound in detecting neuromuscular disease was 78% with 91% specificity. The test was more reliable in the sub-group of &gt; 3 years with a sensitivity of 81% and specificity of 96%. There was a significant difference in disease status, (with and without neuromuscular disease), between children with a normal, grade I, scan and those with an abnormal, grade II, III, IV, image (chi-square, P &lt; 0.001, 95% confidence limits 0.54-0.86). Muscle ultrasound is a specific and sensitive investigation for suspected neuromuscular disease in children.
Thalamocortical (TC) synapses carry information into the neocortex, but they are far outnumbered by excitatory intracortical (IC) synapses. We measured the synaptic properties that determine the efficacy of TC and IC axons converging onto spiny neurons of layer 4 in the mouse somatosensory cortex. Quantal events from TC and IC synapses were indistinguishable. However, TC axons had, on average, about 3 times more release sites than IC axons, and the mean release probability at TC synapses was about 1.5 times higher than that at IC synapses. Differences of innervation ratio and release probability make the average TC connection several times more effective than the average IC connection, and may allow small numbers of TC axons to dominate the activity of cortical layer 4 cells during sensory inflow.
Narp (neuronal activity-regulated pentraxin) is a secreted immediate-early gene (IEG) regulated by synaptic activity in brain. In this study, we demonstrate that Narp possesses several properties that make it likely to play a key role in excitatory synaptogenesis. Narp is shown to be selectively enriched at excitatory synapses on neurons from both the hippocampus and spinal cord. Overexpression of recombinant Narp increases the number of excitatory but not inhibitory synapses in cultured spinal neurons. In transfected HEK 293T cells, Narp interacts with itself, forming large surface clusters that coaggregate AMPA receptor subunits. Moreover, Narp-expressing HEK 293T cells can induce the aggregation of neuronal AMPA receptors. These studies support a model in which Narp functions as an extracellular aggregating factor for AMPA receptors.

We examined neuropathologically and immunohistochemically the respiratory centers in the brainstem of two patients with Joubert syndrome (JS), three patients with congenital central hypoventilation syndrome (CCHS) and a patient with apneustic breathing (prolonged inspiratory pause) due to unknown etiology. Immunoreactivity (IR) of tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH) was decreased in the dorsal raphe nuclei of two patients with JS compared with age-matched controls, as well as in two patients with Dandy-Walker malformation. The two JS patients showed vermian defect and elongated cerebellar peduncles, and peculiar vascularities in the midline of the whole brainstem were also noted in one of these patients. These findings, as a whole, confirm that the midline structures of brainstem are disordered both structurally and functionally in JS, conceivably resulting in respiratory patterns and psychomotor deficits. IR of serotonin 1A receptor showed no significant changes in the medulla oblongata of these patients, however. In the parabrachial complex, IR of substance P was increased in two patients with CCHS, and one with apneustic breathing. IR of tyrosine hydroxylase was also increased in the latter. The brainstem of these patients showed reactive astrogliosis. These findings suggest preceding hypoxic episodes as well as an increased activity in the parabrachial complex which plays an important role in conducting the driving force to the medullary respiratory neurons from ascending sensory pathways.
Effects of the class I selective metabotropic glutamate receptor antagonist, 1-aminoindan-1,5-dicarboxylic acid (AIDA), on spatial procedural learning and episodic short-term memory of rats were investigated in an appetitively reinforced 3-choice delayed match-to-position task. First, an acute intraperitoneal injection of AIDA (2 mg/kg) was given 20 min before a single training session of 20 trials using repeated reward position in one alcove out of three. AIDA caused facilitated short-term acquisition within such a session compared to saline treated controls. Secondly, injections were given before each of ten sessions (48 h intervals) also using constant reward position. The results showed AIDA induced inhibition of procedural between-session acquisition. Finally, the use of reward positions in a non-repetitive but trial-specific version of the 3-choice test revealed a facilitating effect of AIDA on episodic short-term memory.
Twelve neurologically normal right-handed subjects were asked to remember the locations of eight representational drawings, presented one at a time, together with two landmarks (white squares), on a computer screen. Subjects were then scanned using positron emission tomography (PET) while performing forced-choice recognition of object location in four conditions, using either the original landmarks or two of the other objects as cues. In two conditions, the absolute location of the objects was unchanged from the time of encoding (fixed-array conditions), whereas in the other two, the location of the objects was shifted, although the spatial relationship among the objects and landmarks was maintained (shifted-array conditions). Subjects were also scanned in a control condition that made the same perceptual and motor demands as the recognition tasks but that had no mnemonic component. Compared to the control condition, all of the recognition tasks activated both the dorsal and ventral visual pathways bilaterally, but with notable asymmetries. In particular, activation in the right, but not left, inferior temporal gyrus (area 37) was observed when both shifted-array conditions were compared to their respective cue-matched fixed-array conditions. The recognition conditions with landmark cues were associated with focal increases in regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in the region of the right parahippocampal gyrus. The results support previous reports of involvement of the right mesial temporal region in object-location memory tasks, and suggest that right inferotemporal cortex is involved in extracting the invariant relational features of a visual scene.
OBJECTIVE AND IMPORTANCE: Intracranial neurenteric cyst is an exceedingly rare, congenital, benign, space-occupying lesion, and only a few reports of intracranial neurenteric cysts have been documented. We report a case of parasellar neurenteric cyst, a site not previously reported in the literature. A further rarity was the presence of smooth muscle as part of the cyst wall. This feature provides support for an endodermal origin of the cyst. CLINICAL PRESENTATION: A 27-year-old man presented with recurrent episodes of headache, vomiting, and left ptosis. Magnetic resonance imaging disclosed a cystic lesion in the parasellar region. INTERVENTION: A well-circumscribed cystic lesion was resected through a left frontotemporal craniotomy. At follow-up examination, persistent cranial nerve deficits were present. CONCLUSION: Hitherto unreported, a parasellar location of a well-encapsulated neurenteric cyst is described. The presence of a subepithelial smooth muscle layer, reminiscent of bronchiolar/intestinal muscularis mucosa, provides strong evidence for an endodermal origin of this cystic lesion.

The peripheral and central vestibular systems exhibit an age-related structural deterioration which may be responsible for vestibular reflex deficits and dizziness in the elderly. However, it seems likely that the central nervous system is capable of compensating for a certain degree of decline in function, since not all elderly people are impaired to the extent that the clinical signs of vestibular dysfunction are apparent. Dizziness and other vestibular disorders may develop only when the degree of deterioration of the vestibular system exceeds the ability of the nervous system to compensate. If dizziness does eventuate, it can have profound psychological consequences, particularly in terms of loss of confidence in independent activity, and may lead to the development of anxiety disorders. Vestibular rehabilitation programs may help to minimise the effects of age-related deterioration of the vestibular system and its psychological impact.

The present experiments examined the effects of the GABA(B) receptor agonist, baclofen, on the acquisition of ethanol-induced conditioned place preference (CPP) and conditioned taste aversion (CTA) in male DBA/2J mice. Mice in the CPP experiment received four pairings of ethanol (2g/kg) with a distinctive floor stimulus for a 5-min conditioning session (CS+ sessions). On intervening days (CS- sessions), mice received saline injections paired with a different floor type. On CS+ days, mice also received one of four doses of baclofen (0.0. 2.5, 5.0, or 7.5 mg/kg) 15 min before an injection of ethanol. For the preference test, all mice received saline injections, and were placed on a half-grid and half-hole floor for a 60-min session. Baclofen dose dependently reduced ethanol-stimulated activity, but did not alter the magnitude of ethanol-induced CPP at any dose. For the CTA experiment, mice were adapted to a 2-h per day water restriction regimen followed by five conditioning trials every 48 h. During conditioning trials, subjects received an injection of saline or baclofen (2.0 and 6.0 mg/kg) 15 min before injection of 2 g/kg ethanol or saline following 1-h access to a saccharin solution. Baclofen did not alter the magnitude of ethanol-induced CTA at any dose. In addition, baclofen alone did not produce a CTA. Overall, these studies show that activation of GABA(B) receptors with baclofen reduces ethanol-induced locomotor activation, but does not alter ethanol's rewarding or aversive effects in the CPP and CTA paradigms in DBA/2J mice.
Mice are used in increasing numbers in neuroscience research. This increase is linked to the availability of numerous pure genetic lines and the advent of transgenic animals. Many neuroscience techniques can be used in the mouse with success, including stereotaxic placement of cannulae and electrodes. With the recent publication of a mouse brain atlas by Franklin and Paxinos and improvements in surgical procedures for the mouse, stereotaxic surgery in mice can be performed routinely and with accuracy. In the present article, we describe techniques and apparatuses for the surgical implantation of cannulae in the mouse brain. We also present new developments in anesthesia, pain management, and postoperative care that improve survival and recovery times of mice. Using these new techniques, we have gained shorter training time for students, lower mortality rates following surgery, and faster recovery.
Since the first transgenic mouse was reported in 1980, genetically engineered mice have become an invaluable biological tool for better understanding of physiological and pathological processes in many fields of biomedical research. The transgenic technology allows researchers to carry out specific genetic manipulation in all cells of a laboratory animal, and makes it possible to dissect gene function in a living organism. In the field of neurosciences these animals have contributed greatly to shed light on basic mechanisms of brain function as well as to generate useful animal models for studying human neurological disorders. In this review, the different techniques available for generating specific mutations in the mouse genome will be described, from pronuclear microinjection to gene targeting in embryonic stem cells, and to the second generation of inducible and conditional knockout mice. Then, the impact of transgenic mouse models as an alternative or additional approach to neuropharmacology will be discussed, not only for the study of molecular mechanisms in the central nervous system but also for the identification of new biological targets for innovative pharmacological therapy.

In the population coding framework, we consider how the response distributions affect output distribution. A general theory for the output of neuronal population code is presented when the spike train is a renewal process. Under a given condition on the response distribution, the most probable value of the output distribution is the center of input-preferred values, whereas in the other cases the most improbable value of the output distribution is the center of input-preferred values or there are no most probable states. Depending on the exact form of the response distributions, the variance of the output distributions can either enlarge or reduce the tuning width of the tuning curves.
Daily rhythms are a fundamental feature of all living organisms; most are synchronized by the 24 hr light/dark (LD) cycle. In most species, these rhythms are generated by a circadian system, and free run under constant conditions with a period close to 24 hr. To function properly the system needs a pacemaker or clock, an entrainment pathway to the clock, and one or more output signals. In vertebrates, the pineal hormone melatonin is one of these signals which functions as an internal time-keeping molecule. Its production is high at night and low during day. Evidence indicates that each melatonin producing cell of the pineal constitutes a circadian system per se in non-mammalian vertebrates. In addition to the melatonin generating system, they contain the clock as well as the photoreceptive unit. This is despite the fact that these cells have been profoundly modified from fish to birds. Modifications include a regression of the photoreceptive capacities, and of the ability to transmit a nervous message to the brain. The ultimate stage of this evolutionary process leads to the definitive loss of both the direct photosensitivity and the clock, as observed in the pineal of mammals. This review focuses on the functional properties of the cellular circadian clocks of non-mammalian vertebrates. How functions the clock? How is the photoreceptive unit linked to it and how is the clock linked to its output signal? These questions are addressed in light of past and recent data obtained in vertebrates, as well as invertebrates and unicellulars.
Both X-linkage and a parent-of-origin effect have been hypothesized in manic-depressive disorder. We have previously shown an allelic association between X-linked G6PD deficiency and manic depression in Mediterranean populations. To test both X-linkage and a parent-of-origin effect in manic depression further, we have studied 274 Sardinian manic-depressive probands and their parents. Excess of maternal transmission (P = 0.005) of major affective disorder was found in male probands carrying the G6PD-Mediterranean mutation. Our results provide indirect molecular support for an association between manic depression and the Xq28 chromosome region in Sardinia. Further studies on Xq28 using tests of allelic association and transmission disequilibrium with multiple DNA markers are required, to clarify the nature of the association we have found. Our study cannot implicate or exclude a direct role for G6PD deficiency in the aetiology of manic depression.
Because cognitive neuroscience researchers attempt to understand the human mind by bridging behavior and brain, they expect computational analyses to be biologically plausible. In this paper, biologically implausible computational analyses are shown to have critical and essential roles in the various stages and domains of cognitive neuroscience research. Specifically, biologically implausible computational analyses can contribute to (1) understanding and characterizing the problem that is being studied, (2) examining the availability of information and its representation, and (3) evaluating and understanding the neuronal solution. In the context of the distinct types of contributions made by certain computational analyses, the biological plausibility of those analyses is altogether irrelevant. These biologically implausible models are nevertheless relevant and important for biologically driven research.
Ethanol sensitivity may play a role in the risk of developing alcoholism. The role of 5-HT3 receptors in sensitivity to ethanol was assessed in mice over-expressing the 5-HT3 receptor in the forebrain. Sleep time and ED50 for loss of righting reflex (LRR) were used to assess the effect of a high dose of ethanol in transgenic versus non-transgenic mice. The ED50 for ethanol-induced increase in open field activity was used to measure differences in sensitivity to low dose ethanol. The ED50 for ethanol-induced increase in activity was 41% lower in the 5-HT3 receptor over-expressing transgenic mice compared to non-transgenic mice. However, 5-HT3 receptor over-expressing mice did not differ from control mice in ethanol metabolism, ED50 for LRR, and ethanol sleep time. Over-expression of 5-HT3 receptors in mouse forebrain results in an enhanced sensitivity to the stimulating effects of a low dose of ethanol without altering ethanol sedating effects or ethanol metabolism. These data suggest that 5-HT3 receptors modulate low dose ethanol sensitivity and may explain why, in previous studies, these mice consume less ethanol.

The augmentation effect of (-)pindolol as used in combination with SSRI to treat major depression has been ascribed to blocking of dorsal raphe nucleus cell body 5-HT autoreceptors. In this study, the radioligand [carbonyl-11C]WAY-100635 and positron emission tomography were used to establish whether pindolol at a clinical dose level (10 mg s.o.d.) occupies 5-HT1A receptors in the human brain in vivo. Three healthy males were recruited and each subject was used as his own control. The 5-HT1A receptor occupancy was calculated for the frontal and temporal cortex and the raphe nuclei, using and a ratio analysis with the cerebellar cortex as the reference region. Maximal pindolol plasma concentration was reached within 3 h after drug administration. Two hours after pindolol administration, the regional 5-HT1A receptor occupancy was within the range 7-21% in the three subjects. The study confirms that the 5-HT1A-receptor may be a clinically significant target for pindolol.




The class II HLA molecule (HLA-DR, -DQ or -DP) is expressed on various antigen presenting cells (APC). Proteolytic fragments of peptides processed by APC that match the physiochemical character of the peptide-binding grooves formed by alpha and beta chains of class II HLA molecules are expressed on the surface of APC and are recognized by T cells. Many class II-binding peptide motifs reported to date follow the 9-mer peptide pattern AxxBxCDxE, with A, B, C, D, and E residues functioning to bind to HLA, thereby designated as &quot;anchors&quot;. On the contrary, the x residues are recognized by T cells through the T cell receptor (TCR). Analog peptides with single residue substitutions at x residues changed signals in T cells, leading to quantitative and qualitative (anergy/survival, etc.) changes in human T cell clonal responses. Certain analogs changed signals in monocytes, leading to the upregulation of IL-12. Furthermore, cross-linking of class II HLA molecules on monocytes using mAbs leads to upregulation of monokines, in which HLA-DR, -DQ, and -DP play differential roles. Thus, HLA molecules when recognized by TCR, not only present peptide antigens to T cells but also transmit signals to APC, where the polymorphism and heterogeneity of HLA molecules may play important roles.

A study was set up to determine the trends in medical impairment and work disability ratings for persons affected by whiplash associated disorders (WAD) and other injuries secondary to road traffic collisions, and into the influence of age, gender, professional status, and final medical impairment rating on final work disability. A cross-sectional study was carried out of insurance files of 2,523 subjects in 1989 and 3,223 subjects in 1994 judged to have a permanent medical impairment of 10% or more and work disability due to road traffic injury. Files were obtained from the Swedish Road Traffic Injury Commission. The main outcome measures were the crude frequency and age-specific, standardized percentage of traffic injuries with a medical impairment of 10% or more for the years 1989 and 1994. Final work disability status was analysed with respect to age, gender, type of injury, degree of medical impairment, and professional status. The proportion of medical impairment due to WAD was found to have increased from 16% in 1989 to 28% in 1994, but the proportion of work disability was found to have remained the same. Age over 40 years, low professional status, and having a medical impairment judgement of 15% or more were independently associated with reduced or full work disability.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of a weekly exercise programme among nursing staff on organizational/psychosocial and physical work conditions, and psychosomatic symptoms. Out of 106 nurses and nursing aides from four geriatric wards who were invited to participate in a cross-over study, 86 accepted. For the exercise periods the staff were invited to participate in an exercise programme twice a week for 8 weeks during work time. Fifty subjects participated &gt; or = 8 times regularly during the exercise periods (participants). During the control periods, 78 subjects attended without intervention. The effect was followed-up with questionnaires before and after the intervention periods. The exercise programme did not affect perceived organizational/psychosocial or physical work conditions, with one exception. A higher change for the worse was seen in the factor &quot;work planning&quot; during the exercise periods compared with during the control periods. The result suggests that the organization of the training is important in order not to add extra stress.

Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) allows for the noninvasive mapping of the anatomical location of disparate functional brain activities. The means for carrying out fMRI involves the use of existing MR technology coupled with a special software image acquisition program or the use of a specially designed head coil. Thus far in pediatric neurology, fMRI has assisted in the presurgical localization of critical functions and the investigation of various developmental activities. The technique of fMRI, its applications in pediatric neuroscience, and future potential are outlined in this article.
Autonomic dysreflexia (AD) may complicate spinal cord injured (SCI) subjects with a lesion level above the sixth thoracic level. There are several ways to remove triggering factors and, furthermore, new trigger mechanisms may be added by the introduction of new treatments. New data about the pathogenic mechanisms have been suggested in recent years as well as signs of metabolic effects associated with the reaction. This review of the syndrome includes clinical aspects of the AD reaction; the known pathogenic mechanisms, the incidence and prevalence and triggering factors. AD is associated with some cases of severe morbidity, including cerebral haemorrhage, seizures and pulmonary oedema. Symptomatic as well as specific treatments are discussed. Finally, some further questions are raised by the necessity of a proper definition of the syndrome, the revealing of the underlying pathophysiology, and new investigations concerning incidence and prevalence.



Proteolytically activated receptors define a new subclass among the G-protein coupled receptors. Proteinase activated receptor-2 (PAR-2), the second member to be identified of this growing receptor subclass, can be activated by trypsin and trypsin-like serine proteases such as mast cell tryptase. PAR-2 is expressed in endothelial cells. Here we have studied if activation of PAR-2 changes the coagulation properties of cultured human umbilical vein endothelial cells. We show that activation of PAR-2 induces rapid and transient formation of tissue factor mRNA with a maximum level 1 hour after receptor stimulation. The increased mRNA level was accompanied by an increased tissue factor activity at the endothelial cell surface, shortening coagulation time in a standard clotting assay. The level of tissue factor activity after PAR-2 activation was comparable with the effects of thrombin receptor (PAR-1) activation although neither of the two protease receptors were as strong inducers of tissue factor as tumor necrosis factor-alpha.
This review investigates two recent developments in artificial intelligence and neural computation: learning from imitation and the development of humanoid robots. It is postulated that the study of imitation learning offers a promising route to gain new insights into mechanisms of perceptual motor control that could ultimately lead to the creation of autonomous humanoid robots. Imitation learning focuses on three important issues: efficient motor learning, the connection between action and perception, and modular motor control in the form of movement primitives. It is reviewed here how research on representations of, and functional connections between, action and perception have contributed to our understanding of motor acts of other beings. The recent discovery that some areas in the primate brain are active during both movement perception and execution has provided a hypothetical neural basis of imitation. Computational approaches to imitation learning are also described, initially from the perspective of traditional AI and robotics, but also from the perspective of neural network models and statistical-learning research. Parallels and differences between biological and computational approaches to imitation are highlighted and an overview of current projects that actually employ imitation learning for humanoid robots is given.
A large body of research in human perception and cognition has been concerned with the segregation of mental events into their presumed hierarchical processing stages, the temporal aspect of such processing being termed 'mental chronometry'. Advances in single-event functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) have allowed the extraction of relative timing information between the onset of activity in different neural substrates as well as the duration of cognitive processing during a task, offering new opportunities in the study of human perception and cognition. Single-event fMRI studies have also facilitated increased spatial resolution in fMRI, allowing studies of columnar organization in humans. Important processes such as object recognition, binocular vision and other processes are thought to be organized at the columnar level; thus, these advances in the spatial and temporal capabilities of fMRI allow a new generation of cognitive and basic neuroscience studies to be performed, investigating the temporal and spatial relationships between these cortical sub-units. Such experiments bear a closer resemblance to single-unit or evoked-potential studies than to classical static brain activation maps and might serve as a bridge between primate electrophysiology and human studies. These advances are initially demonstrated only in simple visual and motor system tasks and it is likely to be several years before the techniques we describe are robust enough for general use.


The adult CNS provides a poor environment for axonal growth and regeneration. The question of to what extent the loss of axonal growth occurring as the brain matures is dependent on factors intrinsic or extrinsic to the growing neuron is still unanswered. Examination of axonal growth from neural transplants provides insight into the roles of growth factors, inhibitory molecules, growth-promoting substrates and the differences between CNS and PNS environments in the regulation of neurite extension. The data that imply a role for BCL2 and related molecules in such processes are reviewed in this article, which analyzes the factors intrinsic to the neuron that control its capacity for axonal growth.
Problems in detection of Doppler cerebral embolic signals primarily occur for embolic signals of low relative intensity. A characteristic feature of embolic signals is that the intensity increase is maximal over a narrow frequency band. Therefore, frequency filtering of the data might improve embolic signal relative intensity and detectability. We implemented an off-line finite impulse response filter in software running on a commercially available transcranial Doppler system, using the time-domain audio data as input. The range of the filter was chosen by placing a box around the embolic signal on the spectral display. One hundred consecutive embolic signals from patients with carotid stenosis were analyzed; all had been recorded by a bigate system and the signal was analyzed in both proximal and distal channels. There was a highly significant increase in embolic signal relative intensity following frequency filtering; mean (SD) proximal channel prefiltering 12.75 (4.83) dB, postfiltering 16.36 (4.93) dB; distal channel prefiltering 13.42 (4.98) dB, postfiltering 16.60 (5.11) dB, for both p &lt; 0.001. Despite all embolic signals being audible and visible in at least one channel on the frequency spectral display, in 17 cases, the amplitude increase associated with the embolic signal could not be clearly seen in time-domain data of one or both channels prior to filtering. Following frequency filtering, this was reduced to 5. Incorporation of such a frequency-filtering approach to an online system is likely to improve the sensitivity of online detection for embolic signals of low relative intensity.
The contemporary clinical management of a variety of pelvic disorders has benefited greatly from both basic science research discoveries and clinical observations in pelvic neurobiology. The foundation of this scientific discipline emanates from historical advances in the neuroanatomy and neurochemistry of the pelvic region. These advances, many of which were controversial when introduced, have served to shape currently accepted views regarding the neuroregulatory basis of pelvic functions. This report highlights the major contributions in the history of pelvic neurobiology, providing both an overview of the evolution of scientific thought in this discipline and insight into the role of this discipline in the development and practice of medicine and surgery related to the pelvic region.
For more than 3,000 years in Western civilizations, the knowledge of the human body gained very little ground at first, due to taboos. The body was regarded as sacred and Medicine only resorted to plants in order to heal. Hippocrates was not familiar with anatomy as the human body could not be dissected. He developed a theory of humors connected with the primary elements and opposing the dry and the moist. Even though he did not know the nervous system, he nonetheless pointed out that emotions stemmed from the brain and were caused ty particles (pneuma) emitted by the objects around us. Galien was one of the first to mention physiology but could only dissect animals to understand Man. He took up the theory of humors but did not reach any concrete results as he considered the brain as made up of faeces. Only in 1000 AD did Avicenne try to shape the cell theory with its three cells (the ventricles in today's parlance) in direct relation to the nerves, which he described but did not represent. Representation of the nerves was only be given in the mid-13th century by Khalifah in his ophtalmology treaty. Finally, during the Renaissance, when books started conveying both text and pictures, brain physiology emerged; Albert le Grand was its first expounder and his work was then taken up in a 1475 inculabulum in which 5 cells instead of 3 are described and represented. Leonardo da Vinci was the second one; at the end of the 15th century he dissected may corpses to understand human morphology. Unfortunately his work, which was conducted very rigorously from an anatomical point of view only surfaced at the end of the 19th century. He was the first to conduct the anatomical cross-dissection of the brain. Last came Magnus Hundt and Georg Reisch; in the early 16th century they still represented the three cells of Avicenne even though Reisch described more sophisticated connections between the organs of the senses.
The gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABAergic) system of the hippocampal formation of Macaca fascicularis monkeys was studied immunohistochemically with a monoclonal antibody to GABA and with nonisotopic in situ hybridization with cRNA probes for glutamic acid decarboxylase 65 (GAD65) and GAD67. The highest densities of labeled cells were observed in the presubiculum, parasubiculum, entorhinal cortex, and subiculum, whereas the CA3 field and the dentate gyrus had the lowest densities of positive neurons. Within the dentate gyrus, most of the GABAergic neurons were located in the polymorphic layer and in the deep portion of the granule cell layer. GABAergic terminals were densest in the outer two-thirds of the molecular layer. GABAergic neurons were seen throughout all layers of the hippocampus. Terminal labeling was highest in the stratum lacunosum-moleculare. A higher terminal labeling was observed in the subiculum than in CA1 and was particularly prominent in layer II of the presubiculum. A bundle of GABAergic fibers was visible deep to the cell layers of the presubiculum and subiculum. This bundle could be followed into the angular bundle ipsilaterally and was continuous with stained fibers in the dorsal hippocampal commissure. This pattern of labeling is reminiscent of the presubicular projections to the contralateral entorhinal cortex. GABAergic cells were observed in all layers of the entorhinal cortex although the density was higher in layers II and III than in layers V and VI. The in situ hybridization preparations largely confirmed the distribution of GABAergic neurons in all fields of the hippocampal formation.
We define a morphologic type of ganglion cell in cat retina by using intracellular staining in vitro. The eta cell has a small soma, slender axon, and delicate, highly branched dendritic arbor. Dendritic fields are intermediate in size among cat ganglion cells, with diameters typically two to three times those of beta cells. Fields increase in size as a function of distance from the area centralis, ranging in diameter from 90 microm to 200 microm centrally to a maximum of 600 microm in the periphery. This increase is unusually radially symmetric. By contrast with other cat ganglion cell types, eta cells do not have markedly smaller dendritic fields within the visual streak than above or below it nor much smaller fields nasally than temporally. Dendrites ramify broadly throughout sublamina a (OFF sublayer) of the inner plexiform layer. They arborize most densely in S2, where they costratify with dendrites of OFF alpha cells. There is apparently no matching ON variety of eta cell. Experiments combining retrograde labeling with intracellular staining indicate that eta cells project to the superior colliculus and to two components of the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (the C laminae and medial interlaminar nucleus). Eta cells apparently project contralaterally from the nasal retina and ipsilaterally from the temporal retina. The morphology and projection patterns of the eta cell suggest that its physiologic counterpart is a type of sluggish or W-cell with an OFF center, an ON surround, and possibly a transient light response.
Mammalian HDC mRNA encodes a protein with a molecular mass of 74 kDa. The reported molecular mass for the purified HDC subunit is 53-55 kDa. Western blot analysis of extracts of rat gastric mucosa and fetal rat liver has revealed the presence of at least three different forms of HDC immunoreactivity, having molecular masses of about 74, 63 and 53 kDa. There is evidence from previous studies that full length rat HDC is enzymatically inactive and that activation requires C-terminal truncation. In the present study we examined the various immunoreactive HDC forms in rat oxyntic mucosa and their response to treatments known to affect the HDC activity. Freely fed rats and hypergastrinemic rats (treated with gastrin or the proton pump inhibitor omeprazole) had higher oxyntic mucosal HDC activity and HDC mRNA level than fasted or untreated rats. The difference in HDC activity was greater than the difference in HDC mRNA level. Western blot analysis confirmed the existence of the 74, 63 and 53 kDa HDC forms in the oxyntic mucosa. All three forms were more abundant in the oxyntic mucosa of freely fed and hypergastrinemic rats than in the mucosa of fasted or untreated rats. Of the three HDC forms, the 63 kDa form was the predominant one, the 73 kDa form was quantitatively insignificant by comparison and the 53 kDa form was at or below the limit of detection in fasted rats. The activity of HDC was well correlated to the amount of the 63 kDa HDC form. Administration of cycloheximide to hypergastrinemic rats (undergoing omeprazole treatment) resulted in a rapid decline of the HDC activity (estimated half-life 1 h and 50 min). The 63 kDa HDC form disappeared with a rate that corresponded to the decline in HDC activity. The two other HDC forms seemed to have a slower turnover. Our findings suggest that the 63 kDa form is enzymatically active. The results do not allow any conclusion as to the functional activity of the 74 and 53 kDa forms.

Considerable evidence implicates nitric oxide (NO) in the pathological events following cerebral ischemia and, depending on the enzyme/cell source, NO is considered to be either damaging or protective. As a role for the enzyme nitric oxide synthase (NOS)-2 in permanent focal ischemia is not clear, we examined its expression following permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion in mice. At 24 h after occlusion, NOS-2 was expressed in cells infiltrating the infarct, while at later times, there was also expression in astrocytes around the infarct. To reveal a role for NO derived from this source, we compared infarct size in male and female mice with littermates in which the NOS-2 gene was disrupted. No differences were found between gender and genotype at 24 h. At 72 h, the infarct was increased in male mice, but not in females or in either gender with the gene disruption. These results suggest that NOS-2 plays a role in the later development of the infarct in male mice. Female mice are protected either against the damaging effects of NO, or because NOS-2 expression/activity is modulated by steroids.
Basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) has been reported to have neuroprotective properties following excitotoxic, metabolic, and oxidative insults. We report here that another FGF family member, FGF-8 is able to protect rat hippocampal cultures from oxidative stress. The b isoform of FGF-8 protected hippocampal cultures from hydrogen peroxide with an EC50 of approximately 25 ng/ml. In a time course study, using pre-, co-, post-treatment paradigms, we report that bFGF and FGF-8b were neuroprotective when added as a pre-treatment, co-treatment, and even at 2 h post-insult. Using neuronal enriched cultures, we demonstrate that bFGF and FGF-8b neuroprotection partially results from a direct action of the growth factors on neurons. The direct action on neurons may work in concert with normal and FGF-stimulated glial secretion products to give the full FGF protective effect. FGF-8b showed maximal protection at 50 ng/ml, whereas bFGF showed maximal protection at 10 ng/ml. Despite requiring higher concentrations to elicit protection, FGF-8b is able to attain levels of protection equivalent to that of bFGF (attenuation of 75-80% of hydrogen peroxide induced death). We also report that bFGF and FGF-8b are able to protect the human neuroblastoma cell line, SK-N-MC, from peroxide-induced LDH release by 50%. From these studies, we conclude that FGF-8b is another member of the FGF family which may show in vivo efficacy for the treatment of oxidative insults, such as stroke.
The consequences of juvenile isolation and morphine treatment on general activity, social activity and endogenous opioid release during a social interaction test were investigated in the adult rat. Rats were either isolated or socially housed during weeks 4 and 5 of age and treated daily during this isolation period subcutaneously with either saline or morphine. Directly after a social interaction test at 10 weeks of age, rats were injected with [3H]-diprenorphine and subsequently prepared for in vivo autoradiography. The autoradiographic technique was used to visualise neuroanatomical changes in opioid receptor occupancy, probably reflecting changes in opioid peptide release, as a result of social activity. Juvenile isolation increased general activity during the social interaction test, an effect which was accompanied by a reduction of opioid receptor occupancy in many brain areas, suggesting an increased opioid peptide release as a consequence of socially-induced general activity. Morphine treatment in isolated rats caused an increase in adult social activity and enhanced opioid peptide release in some cortical regions and the ventral tegmental area as compared to saline treated rats. Both social activity and opioid receptor occupancy were unaffected by morphine treatment in non-isolated rats. The present study underscores the role of opioid systems in adult social behaviors as a consequence of juvenile isolation. The results suggest a relationship between social activity and opioid peptide release during social contact. Increased social activity seems to be accompanied by elevated opioid peptide release in distinct brain areas after morphine treatment during juvenile isolation.

The synaptic activity transmitted from vestibular hair cells of the lagena to primary afferent neurons was recorded in vitro using sharp, intracellular microelectrodes. At rest, the activity was composed of miniature excitatory postsynaptic potentials (mEPSPs) at frequencies from 5 to 20/s and action potentials (APs) at frequencies betwen 0 and 10/s. mEPSPs recorded from a single fiber displayed a large variability. For mEPSPs not triggering APs, amplitudes exhibited an average coefficient of variance (CV) of 0.323 and rise times an average CV of 0.516. APs were only triggered by mEPSPs with larger amplitudes (estimated 4-6 mV) and/or steeper maximum rate of rise (10.9 mV/ms, +/- 3.7 SD, n=4 experiments) compared to (3.50 mV/ms, +/-0.07 SD, n=6 experiments) for nontriggering mEPSPs. The smallest mEPSPs showed a fast rise time (0.99 ms between 10% and 90% of peak amplitude) and limited variability across fibers (CV:0.18) confirming that they were not attenuated signals, but rather represented single-transmitter discharges (TDs). The mEPSP amplitude and rise-time relationship suggests that many mEPSPs represented several, rather than a single pulse of secretion of TDs. According to the estimated overall TD frequency, the coincidence of TDs contributing to the same mEPSP were not statistically independent, indicating a positive interaction between TDs that is reminiscent of the way subminiature signals group to form miniature signals at the neuromuscular junction. Depending on the duration and intensity of efferent stimulation, a complete block of AP initiation occurred either immediately or after a delay of a few seconds. Efferent stimulation did not significantly change AP threshold level, but abruptly decreased mEPSP frequency to a near-complete block that followed the block of APs. Maximum mEPSP rate of rise decreased during, and recovered progressively after, efferent stimulation. After termination of efferent stimulation, mEPSP amplitude did not recover instantly and for a few seconds the amplitude distribution of synaptic events showed fewer large-amplitude events than during the control period. This confirms that mEPSP amplitude and rate of rise properties, which are critical for triggering afferent APs, are modified by efferent activity. The depression of afferent AP firing during efferent stimulation corresponded to a decrease in mEPSP frequency and, to a lesser extent, a decrease in mEPSP amplitude and rate of rise, suggesting, a decrease in the level of interaction among TDs contibuting to a mEPSP.
In teleost fish, the tangential nucleus can be identified as a compact, separate cell group lying ventral to the VIIIth nerve near the middle of the vestibular complex. Morphological analysis of larval and adult hindbrains utilizing biocytin and fluorescent tracers showed the tangential nucleus to be located entirely within rhombomeric segment 5 with all axons projecting into the contralateral MLF. Combined single-cell electrophysiology and morphology in alert goldfish found three classes of neurons whose physiological sensitivity could be readily correlated with rotational axes about either the anterior (45 degrees), posterior (135 degrees), or horizontal (vertical axis) semicircular canals. Tangential neurons could be distinguised from those in semicircular-canal specific subnuclei by an irregular, spontaneous background of 10-15 sp/s and sustained static sensitivity after +/- 4 degrees head displacements. Each axis-specific tangential subtype terminated appropriately onto oculomotor subnuclei responsible for either vertical, torsional, or horizontal eye movements and, in a few cases, axon collaterals descended in the MLF toward the spinal cord. We hypothesize, therefore, that the tangential nucleus consists of 3 axis-specific phenotypes that process gravitoinertial signals largely responsible for controlling oculomotor function, but that also in part, maintain body posture.

Directional abnormalities of vestibular and optokinetic responses in patients with cerebellar degeneration are reported. Three-axis magnetic search-coil recordings of the eye and head were performed in eight cerebellar patients. Among these patients, examples of directional cross-coupling were found during (1) high-frequency, high-acceleration head thrusts; (2) constant-velocity chair rotations with the head fixed; (3) constant-velocity optokinetic stimulation; and (4) following repetitive head shaking. Cross-coupling during horizontal head thrusts consisted of an inappropriate upward eye-velocity component. In some patients, sustained constant-velocity yaw-axis chair rotations produced a mixed horizontal-torsional nystagmus and/or an increase in the baseline vertical slow-phase velocity. Following horizontal head shaking, some patients showed an increase in the slow-phase velocity of their downbeat nystagmus. These various forms of cross-coupling did not necessarily occur to the same degree in a given patient; this suggests that different mechanisms may be responsible. It is suggested that cross-coupling during head thrusts may reflect a loss of calibration of brainstem connections involved in the direct vestibular pathways, perhaps due to dysfunction of the flocculus. Cross-coupling during constant-velocity rotations and following head shaking may result from a misorientation of the angular eye-velocity vector in the velocity-storage system. Finally, responses to horizontal optokinetic stimulation included an inappropriate torsional component in some patients. This suggests that the underlying organization of horizontal optokinetic tracking is in labyrinthine coordinates. The findings are also consistent with prior animal-lesion studies that have shown a role for the vestibulocerebellum in the control of the direction of the VOR.
New evidence for a central resolution of gravito-inertial signals has been recently obtained by analyzing the properties of the vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR) in response to combined lateral translations and roll tilts of the head. It is found that the VOR generates robust compensatory horizontal eye movements independent of whether or not the interaural translatory acceleration component is canceled out by a gravitational acceleration component due to simultaneous roll-tilt. This response property of the VOR depends on functional semicircular canals, suggesting that the brain uses both otolith and semicircular canal signals to estimate head motion relative to inertial space. Vestibular information about dynamic head attitude relative to gravity is the basis for computing head (and body) angular velocity relative to inertial space. Available evidence suggests that the inertial vestibular system controls both head attitude and velocity with respect to a gravity-centered reference frame. The basic computational principles underlying the inertial processing of otolith and semicircular canal afferent signals are outlined.
Translational vestibulo-ocular reflexes (trVORs) are characterized by distinct spatio-temporal properties and sensitivities that are proportional to the inverse of viewing distance. Anodal (inhibitory) labyrinthine stimulation (100 microA, &lt; 2 s) during motion decreased the high-pass filtered dynamics, as well as horizontal trVOR sensitivity and its dependence on viewing distance. Cathodal (excitatory) currents had opposite effects. Translational VORs were also affected after unilateral labyrinthectomy. Animals lost their ability to modulate trVOR sensitivity as a function of viewing distance acutely after the lesion. These deficits partially recovered over time, albeit a significant reduction in trVOR sensitivity as a function of viewing distance remained in compensated animals. During fore-aft motion, the effects of unilateral labyrinthectomy were more dramatic. Both acute and compensated animals permanently lost their ability to modulate fore-aft trVOR responses as a function of target eccentricity. These results suggest that (1) the dynamics and viewing distance-dependent properties of the trVORs are very sensitive to changes in the resting firing rate of vestibular afferents and, consequently, vestibular nuclei neurons; (2) the most irregularly firing primary otolith afferents that are most sensitive to labyrinthine electrical stimulation might contribute to reflex dynamics and sensitivity; (3) inputs from both labyrinths are necessary for the generation of the translational VORs.
The contributions of vestibular nerve afferents and central vestibular pathways to the angular (AVOR) and linear (LVOR) vestibulo-ocular reflex were studied in squirrel monkeys during fixation of near and far targets. Irregular vestibular afferents did not appear to be necessary for the LVOR, since when they were selectively silenced with galvanic currents the LVOR was essentially unaffected during both far- and near-target viewing. The linear translation signals generated by secondary AVOR neurons in the vestibular nuclei were, on average, in phase with head velocity, inversely related to viewing distance, and were nearly as strong as AVOR-related signals. We suggest that spatial-temporal transformation of linear head translation signals to angular eye velocity commands is accomplished primarily by the addition of viewing distance multiplied, centrally integrated, otolith regular afferent signals to angular VOR pathways.
The ergoline derivatives, nicergoline (NIC) or dihydroergocristine (DHE) were administered at various doses (0.1, 0.5 and 1 mg/kg) to aged male rats subjected to labyrinth unilateral lesion (LBX). The nystagmus rate appeared to be lower in animals treated with DHE or NIC 1mg/kg than in saline-injected rats, when observed on day 1 and 2 after operation. The number of falls in the rotorod test of LBX animals was decreased by NIC 0.5 or 1 mg/kg at all observation times. This parameter was affected by DHE only at the higher dose. These results suggest that NIC facilitates vestibular compensation of LBX rats. DHE appeared to be less potent in this respect. Since both drugs act on central dopaminergic neurotransmission, it is possible that this neurotransmission may be involved in their mechanism of action.
Hemispheric asymmetries in response to speech sounds are well documented. However, it is not known if these asymmetries reflect only cortical hemispheric specialization to language or whether they also reflect pre-conscious encoding of signals at lower levels of the auditory pathway. This study examined differences in neural representations of signals with acoustic properties inherent to speech in the left versus right side of the thalamus. Specifically, 2000 Hz tone bursts, clicks and synthesized forms of the phoneme /da/ were presented to anesthetized guinea pigs. Evoked responses were recorded simultaneously from aggregate cell groups in the left and right medial geniculate bodies. Results showed an asymmetric response to complex auditory stimuli between the left versus right auditory thalamus, but not to the simple tonal signal. Moreover, asymmetries differed in male versus female animals.
Lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) receptor has been attracting many neuroscientists' concerns, since it was reported to have a potential role in the neurogenesis, which occurs in the ventricular zone of the developing and adult brain. In the present experiments using baculovirus expression system, the LPA receptor encoded by ventricular zone gene 1 (Edg-2/Vzg-1) was found to be functionally coupled to Gi1, Goa, and G11, but not to GS. The coexpression of LPA receptor markedly decreased the expression of G protein alphai1 or alphaoa subunit, while the basal [35S]GTPgammaS binding significantly increased in the Gi1-preparation. The Scatchard Plot analysis indicates that the expression of LPA-receptor (Edg-2/Vzg-1) showed stimulation of Gi1 without agonist. These results suggest the Edg-2/Vzg-1 has an intrinsic acctivity on Gi1.
Magnetoencephalographic responses recorded from auditory cortex evoked by brief and rapidly successive stimuli differed between adults with poor vs. good reading abilities in four important ways. First, the response amplitude evoked by short-duration acoustic stimuli was stronger in the post-stimulus time range of 150-200 ms in poor readers than in normal readers. Second, response amplitude to rapidly successive and brief stimuli that were identical or that differed significantly in frequency were substantially weaker in poor readers compared with controls, for interstimulus intervals of 100 or 200 ms, but not for an interstimulus interval of 500 ms. Third, this neurological deficit closely paralleled subjects' ability to distinguish between and to reconstruct the order of presentation of those stimulus sequences. Fourth, the average distributed response coherence evoked by rapidly successive stimuli was significantly weaker in the beta- and gamma-band frequency ranges (20-60 Hz) in poor readers, compared with controls. These results provide direct electrophysiological evidence supporting the hypothesis that reading disabilities are correlated with the abnormal neural representation of brief and rapidly successive sensory inputs, manifested in this study at the entry level of the cortical auditory/aural speech representational system(s).
Regulators of G protein signaling (RGS) proteins accelerate the intrinsic GTPase activity of certain Galpha subunits and thereby modulate a number of G protein-dependent signaling cascades. Currently, little is known about the regulation of RGS proteins themselves. We identified a short-lived RGS protein, RGS7, that is rapidly degraded through the proteasome pathway. The degradation of RGS7 is inhibited by interaction with a C-terminal domain of polycystin, the protein encoded by PKD1, a gene involved in autosomal-dominant polycystic kidney disease. Furthermore, membranous expression of C-terminal polycystin relocalized RGS7. Our results indicate that rapid degradation and interaction with integral membrane proteins are potential means of regulating RGS proteins.
Regulation of beta-catenin stability is essential for Wnt signal transduction during development and tumorigenesis. It is well known that serine-phosphorylation of beta-catenin by the Axin-glycogen synthase kinase (GSK)-3beta complex targets beta-catenin for ubiquitination-degradation, and mutations at critical phosphoserine residues stabilize beta-catenin and cause human cancers. How beta-catenin phosphorylation results in its degradation is undefined. Here we show that phosphorylated beta-catenin is specifically recognized by beta-Trcp, an F-box/WD40-repeat protein that also associates with Skp1, an essential component of the ubiquitination apparatus. beta-catenin harboring mutations at the critical phosphoserine residues escapes recognition by beta-Trcp, thus providing a molecular explanation for why these mutations cause beta-catenin accumulation that leads to cancer. Inhibition of endogenous beta-Trcp function by a dominant negative mutant stabilizes beta-catenin, activates Wnt/beta-catenin signaling, and induces axis formation in Xenopus embryos. Therefore, beta-Trcp plays a central role in recruiting phosphorylated beta-catenin for degradation and in dorsoventral patterning of the Xenopus embryo.
Western blotting and immunodetection with three antibodies were used to probe conditioned media of breast cancer cells (MDA231, MDA435, MCF-7) for prosaposin, a lysosomal protein that occurs in milk. It was readily detected in media from these cells, and from that of an sv40-transformed mammary epithelial cell, HBL100, but not from medium of human neural tumor cells (SK-N-MC). In cultures of MCF-7 cells, the prosaposin pattern of secretion over time closely resembled that of procathepsin D, another lysosomal protein occurring in milk. Supplementing medium with 17beta-estradiol (0. 1-100 nM) dose dependently increased secretion of both proteins after 48 h without changes in cell viability. The influence of 17beta-estradiol on secretion could play a role in the trophic activity of prosaposin in cellular differentiation and cell death protection. In concert with other lysosomal proteins in the tumor environment, such as procathepsin D, prosaposin may be a factor in eliminating barriers to tumor metastasis by facilitating hydrolysis of membrane glycolipids. The number of milk proteins known to be secreted by breast cancer cells is growing. There is evidence that at least some of these may be secreted in an endocrine manner in the normal, non-lactating breast.
We have stained a new population of bipolar cells in rabbit retina by using antibodies against the carbohydrate epitope, CD15. The CD15-positive bipolar cells comprise 6-8% of the total cone bipolar cells in peripheral retina. Their axonal and dendritic arbors are similar in size and range from 15 to 50 pm in diameter. The axonal arbors are narrowly stratified in sublamina b of the inner plexiform layer. Double label experiments using an antibody against the calcium binding protein, calbindin, or an antibody against protein kinase C, demonstrate that the CD15-positive bipolar cells are a separate population from the previously identified calbindin-positive cone bipolar cells and the rod bipolar cells. Labeling the processes of starburst amacrine cells with antibodies against choline acetyltransferase showed that the CD15-positive bipolar cells stratify within and slightly more distally to the processes of the ON-starburst amacrine cells. Confocal images of retinal wholemounts showed that the axons of the CD15-positive bipolar cells follow the pattern of the ON-starburst cells' processes. Axonal varicosities of the CD15-positive bipolar cells penetrate the bundles formed by the processes of the ON-starburst cells. This finding suggests that the CD15-positive bipolar cell provides input to the ON-starburst amacrine cells and/or the ON-plexus of the ON-OFF direction-selective ganglion cells.
Alpha-Internexin is a type IV intermediate filament protein that is expressed abundantly in neurons during development of the peripheral and central nervous systems as well as in few neurons of the adult central nervous system. It has been suggested that alpha-internexin may act as a scaffold for the formation of neuronal intermediate filaments during early development. In addition, recent reports suggest that alpha-internexin could play a major role in two degenerative neurological disorders. We report here an analysis of mice with a targeted disruption of alpha-internexin gene. Unexpectedly, alpha-internexin -/- mice developed normally and did not exhibit overt phenotypes. Moreover, the absence of alpha-internexin did not interfere with neurite extension of cultured DRG neurons. The number and caliber of L4 ventral root axons remained unchanged in alpha-internexin -/- mice. In the retina, alpha-internexin begins to be expressed in retinal ganglion cells when their first axons reach the optic chiasma. Using HRP tracer, we show that the projection pattern of the RGC axons is not modified by the absence of alpha-internexin. Electron microscopy did not reveal significant differences in axonal calibers, in myelination of axons and in neurofilament structures between alpha-internexin -/- and control mice during development and at adult stage. These data indicate that alpha-internexin is not required for the polymerization of neurofilament in vivo. Mice deficient for both alpha-internexin and neurofilament light chain (NF-L) exhibited no over phenotypes as well. No intermediate filament structures were detectable in optic nerve of alpha-internexin -/-; NF-L -/- mice. Ours results do not support the hypothesis of a role for type IV intermediate filaments in axonal outgrowth during development of nervous system.
We have cloned from a rat hypothalamic cDNA library two closely related G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) which we have designated GPCR/CNS1 and GPCR/CNS2. The peptide sequences of these two G protein-coupled receptors shared 42% identity with each other and were next most closely related to the endothelin receptors and the bombesin-like peptide receptors (approximately 25% identity). Northern blot analysis showed that both GPCR/CNS1 and GPCR/CNS2 were very highly expressed in rat brain. In situ hybridization of rat brain demonstrated broad distribution of both receptors throughout the central nervous system. GPCR/CNS1 appeared to be expressed primarily in glial cells of the fiber tracts, while GPCR/CNS2 was expressed primarily in cells of the gray matter. The different distribution patterns of these two receptors in rat brain suggests distinct functional roles for each receptor in the central nervous system. Expression of these two receptors in Xenopus oocytes showed no response to any known endothelin and bombesin-like peptides. Therefore, the endogenous ligands and physiological significance of GPCR/CNS1 and GPCR/CNS2 remain to be elucidated, but may be related to the endothelins or bombesins. The very abundant expression in brain by these two receptors, however, suggests that they play important roles in the central nervous system.
Several lines of evidence indicate that adult neurons remain dependent on neurotrophins and that changes in tissue expression of neurotrophins and/or their receptors may play a role in senile neurodegeneration. We have studied the expression of p75NTR, trkB and trkC, respectively, in lumbar motoneurons of young adult (2-3 months) and aged (30 months) rats subjected to sciatic transection using in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry. Nonmanipulated age-matched animals were processed in parallel. In nonmanipulated aged rats, high levels of p75NTR could be seen in a number of motoneurons (10-15%), while in young adult animals no p75NTR could be detected. Seven days following sciatic axotomy, a conspicuous ipsilateral upregulation p75NTR was observed in young adult rats. Also in aged rats there was a marked ipsilateral increase in number of p75NTR expressing neurons ( approximately 100%). In comparison to young adult rats, aged rats showed a decreased expression of both trkB (5/6 animals) and trkC (6/6 animals). Furthermore, in response to sciatic transection, 3 out of 5 aged rats did not show an increased expression of trkB. In aged rats, axotomy did not induce any significant change in trkC expression. In the young adult rats, we recorded a side-to-side effect with lower values ipsilaterally, however, it cannot be excluded that this difference was caused by an upregulation in the contralateral motoneurons. Oligonucleotide probes against BDNF and NT3 mRNA showed only very few faintly positive neurons in both age groups. Our results indicate that the pattern of regulatory changes of NT receptors in response to axotomy is different in aged and young adult rats. The lack of covariation between p75NTR and trkB and trkC regulation in aged rats indicates a changed role for p75NTR in senescent motoneurons.
We previously reported that residues 299-318 in Galphai1 participate in the selective interaction between Galphai1 and the 5-hydroxytryptamine1B (5-HT1B) receptor (Bae, H., Anderson, K., Flood, L. A., Skiba, N. P., Hamm, H. E., and Graber, S. G. (1997) J. Biol. Chem. 272, 32071-32077). The present study more precisely defines which residues within this domain are critical for 5-HT1B receptor-mediated G protein activation. A series of Galphai1/Galphat chimeras and point mutations were reconstituted with Gbetagamma and Sf9 cell membranes containing the 5-HT1B receptor. Functional coupling to 5-HT1B receptors was assessed by 1) [35S]GTPgammaS binding and 2) agonist affinity shift assays. Replacement of the alpha4 helix of Galphai1 (residues 299-308) with the corresponding sequence from Galphat produced a chimera (Chi22) that only weakly coupled to the 5-HT1B receptor. In contrast, substitution of residues within the alpha4-beta6 loop region of Galphai1 (residues 309-318) with the corresponding sequence in Galphat either permitted full 5-HT1B receptor coupling to the chimera (Chi24) or only minimally reduced coupling to the chimeric protein (Chi25). Two mutations within the alpha4 helix of Galphai1 (Q304K and E308L) reduced agonist-stimulated [35S]GTPgammaS binding, and the effects of these mutations were additive. The opposite substitutions within Chi22 (K300Q and L304E) restored 5-HT1B receptor coupling, and again the effects of the two mutations were additive. Mutations of other residues within the alpha4 helix of Galphai1 had minimal to no effect on 5-HT1B coupling behavior. These data provide evidence that alpha4 helix residues in Galphai participate in directing specific receptor interactions and suggest that Gln304 and Glu308 of Galphai1 act in concert to mediate the ability of the 5-HT1B receptor to couple specifically to inhibitory G proteins.
Human T lymphocytes express a Ca2+-activated K+ current (IK), whose roles and regulation are poorly understood. We amplified hSK4 cDNA from human T lymphoblasts, and we showed that its biophysical and pharmacological properties when stably expressed in Chinese hamster ovary cells were essentially identical to the native IK current. In activated lymphoblasts, hSK4 mRNA increased 14.6-fold (Kv1.3 mRNA increased 1.3-fold), with functional consequences. Proliferation was inhibited when Kv1.3 and IK were blocked in naive T cells, but IK block alone inhibited re-stimulated lymphoblasts. IK and Kv1.3 were involved in volume regulation, but IK was more important, particularly in lymphoblasts. hSK4 lacks known Ca2+-binding sites; however, we mapped a Ca2+-dependent calmodulin (CaM)-binding site to the proximal C terminus (Ct1) of hSK4. Full-length hSK4 produced a highly negative membrane potential (Vm) in Chinese hamster ovary cells, whereas the channels did not function when either Ct1 or the distal C terminus was deleted (Vm approximately 0 mV). Native IK (but not expressed hSK4) current was inhibited by CaM and CaM kinase antagonists at physiological Vm values, suggesting modulation by an accessory molecule in native cells. Our results provide evidence for increased roles for IK/hSK4 in activated T cell functions; thus hSK4 may be a promising therapeutic target for disorders involving the secondary immune response.

Vitronectin (Vn), a multifunctional plasma protein synthesized primarily in the liver, is often present as a component of the extracellular plaques and deposits that accompany various age-related human diseases. Recently, we reported that Vn is also a prominent molecular constituent of drusen, the extracellular deposits associated with age-related macular degeneration (AMD) (1). The cellular source(s) of the Vn in drusen, as well as in these other plaques and deposits, remains uncertain. In this study, we used real-time quantitative RT-PCR to measure the relative levels of Vn mRNA in the cells and tissues that lie in close proximity to drusen. The results confirm that the human liver is an abundant source of Vn mRNA. Levels of Vn mRNA in kidney, lung, and fetal or adult brain are &lt;3% of those in liver. Remarkably, mean Vn mRNA levels in the neural retina significantly exceed those in brain and represent close to 40% of the Vn mRNA value measured in human liver. Substantial levels of Vn mRNA are also present in the adjacent retinal pigment epithelium (RPE). These results identify the neural retina, for the first time, as an abundant source of Vn mRNA. They also suggest that both the neural retina and RPE are potent biosynthetic sources of Vn in humans, and potentially significant local contributors to the Vn that accumulates in drusen.
The title compounds were synthesized by replacing the thiophene moiety of A-86929(2a) with variously substituted pyridines. Dopamine D-1 and D-2 binding and adenylate cyclase assays indicate that 4,6-diaza compounds 15 are potent and selective full D1 agonists when R1 is H or a small substituent and R2 = H, with D1 binding affinity and adenylate cyclase functional potency equivalent to that of A-86929(2a).
The olivocerebellar system is characterised by a precise topographical organisation, in which distinct subsets of inferior olivary axons project to neurochemically heterogeneous Purkinje cell subpopulations, arranged into parasagittally oriented compartments in the cerebellar cortex. Adult climbing fibres and Purkinje cells are linked by a one-to-one relationship, which is established during postnatal development after a transitory phase of multiple climbing fibre innervation. The elimination of redundant climbing fibre synapses is thought to be regulated by granule cell-mediated activity-dependent processes. In order to assess whether this developmental remodelling is also important for the construction of the mature olivocerebellar projection map, we examined the hypogranular cerebella of rats treated by means of methylazoxymethanol acetate (MAM) during early postnatal life, in which multiple climbing fibre innervation persists in the adult. In these animals we investigated the distribution of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP)-immunoreactive olivocerebellar axons and arbours during early postnatal development, and the correspondence between climbing fibre strips and zebrin II-defined Purkinje cell bands in the adult. Our results show that: (1) the pattern of CGRP-immunoreactive climbing fibres observed during the first three postnatal weeks is not disrupted after granule cell degeneration; and (2) the alignment between olivocerebellar axon subsets and zebrin II+/- Purkinje cell compartments is normally achieved in adult rats. In contrast, the climbing fibre-Purkinje cell relationship is abnormal, and single arbours innervate restricted dendritic regions of several neighbouring target neurons. These results indicate that the normal distribution of olivocerebellar axon subsets to distinct cerebellar cortical compartments can be established independently from granule cell-mediated remodelling processes. Thus, the postnatal climbing fibre plasticity, which is needed to achieve the normal climbing fibre-Purkinje cell relationship, appears to be confined within the framework of a projection map established during earlier developmental phases.
A series of benzofuran derivatives have been identified as inhibitors of fibril formation in the beta-amyloid peptide. The activity of these compounds has been assessed by a novel fibril-formation-specific immunoassay and for their effects on the production of a biologically active fibril product. The inhibition afforded by the compounds seems to be associated with their binding to beta-amyloid, as identified by scintillation proximity binding assay. Binding assays and NMR studies also indicate that the inhibition is associated with self-aggregation of the compounds. There is a close correlation between the activity of the benzofurans as inhibitors of fibril formation and their ability to bind to beta-amyloid. Non-benzofuran inhibitors of the fibril formation process do not seem to bind to the same site on the beta-amyloid molecule as the benzofurans. Thus a specific recognition site might exist for benzofurans on beta-amyloid, binding to which seems to interfere with the ability of the peptide to form fibrils.


This work was prompted by the accidental observation that a newly developed, affinity purified polyclonal antibody against the C-terminus of the neuropeptide tyrosine (NPY) Y1-receptor protein decorates degenerating fibers in the central nervous system (CNS). This staining did not appear in control animals in which the antibody marked perikarya and dendrites at previously described locations [X. Zhang, L. Bao, Z.-Q. Xu, J. Kopp, U. Arvidsson, R. Elde, T. Hkfelt, Localization of neuropeptide Y Y1-receptors in the rat nervous system with special reference to somatic receptors on small dorsal root ganglion neurons, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 91 (1994) 11738-11742]. Three models of experimental lesions were studied: sciatic nerve transection, spinal cord transection and parietal cortex thermocoagulation. In each model, animals were divided in groups (n=2) and processed for indirect immunofluorescence at different time intervals up to 28 days post-lesion (PL) (see below). All three experimental lesions produced a very intense immunolabeling of fibers in the projection pathways of the lesioned structures, strongly reminding of Wallerian degeneration (WD). In the sciatic nerve, the staining first appeared on day 1 PL, was strongly increased on day 3 PL, then declined after 7 days and had almost completely disappeared after 14 days. In the CNS, the staining appeared later and was first observed on day 3 PL and remained for a longer period, thus showing different time courses in the brain and spinal cord as compared to the sciatic nerve. The labeling was completely abolished, both in the CNS and in the sciatic nerve, by pre-incubation of the Y1-R antibody with the immunogenic peptide at a dilution of 10-6 M. The appearance of the staining and its time course strongly suggest that the process was related to degenerating axons. Although the protein actually detected remains to be determined, it is suggested that the staining ability of this antibody could be used as a positive marker of axonal degeneration following experimental or naturally occurring lesions of the nervous system.
The network behavior of cortical cells during the processing of a light flash was characterized in an isolated, but functionally intact, turtle visual system. Rapid changes in intracellular membrane potential were monitored optically using a voltage-sensitive dye (VSD). Spatially coherent changes in membrane potential were determined by subjecting high-speed movies of the VSD signals to Karhunen-Love decomposition. In all experimental trials analyzed (n &gt; 50), coherent activity was restricted to a small number of similar spatial patterns or modes. At least four modes (M(1,1), M(1,2), M(2,1), and M(2,2)) have an organizational structure similar to the normal modes of a vibrating membrane (drum). This empirical observation of modal activity provides a useful framework for analyzing the macroscopic behavior of cortical networks.
Successful performance of the water maze task requires that rats learn complex behavioral strategies for swimming in a pool of water, searching for and interacting with a hidden platform before its spatial location can be learned. To evaluate whether NMDA receptor-dependent long-term potentiation (NMDA-LTP) is required for learning the required behavioral strategies, rats with NMDA-LTP blocked by systemic pharmacological treatment were trained in the behavioral strategies using simplified and stepwise training methods. Despite the blockade of NMDA-LTP in the dentate gyrus and hippocampal area CA1, rats learned the required behavioral strategies and used them to learn both initial and reversed platform locations. This is the first evaluation of the role of NMDA-LTP specifically in behavioral strategy learning. Although hippocampal NMDA-LTP might contribute to the water maze task, this form of LTP is not essential for learning complex behavioral strategies or multiple hidden platform locations.
In preceding studies (Hikosaka et al., 1996; Sakai et al., 1998) we have shown that the presupplementary motor area (pre-SMA), an anterior part of the medial premotor cortex, is active during visuo-motor sequence learning. However, the paradigm required the subjects first to acquire correct visuo-motor association and then to acquire correct sequence, and it was still unknown which of the two processes the pre-SMA is involved in. To further characterize the role of pre-SMA, we have conducted another series of functional magnetic resonance imaging experiments using three learning paradigms. The three were the same in that they involved a visuo-motor association component, but they differed in terms of the involvement of sequential components; one involved no sequence learning, whereas the other two involved learning of motor sequence or perceptual sequence. Comparison of the learning conditions with the any-order button press condition revealed pre-SMA activation in all three paradigms. The pre-SMA activation remained unchanged during learning of visuo-motor associations but decreased during learning of sequences, suggesting that the pre-SMA is related to visuo-motor association rather than sequence. The decrease of pre-SMA activation in the sequential paradigms may reflect the process by which individual visuo-motor associations were replaced by the formation of sequential procedural memory, which occurs outside the pre-SMA. Thus activation of the pre-SMA was related to the extent to which the task performance depended on conscious visuo-motor associations.
Electrical stimulation of the cerebellar fastigial nucleus (FN) elevates regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) and arterial pressure (AP) and provides long-lasting protection against focal and global ischemic infarctions. We investigated which neuronal element in FN, perikarya or axons, mediates this central neurogenic neuroprotection and whether it also protects against excitotoxicity. In anesthetized rats, the FN was stimulated for 1 hr, and ibotenic acid (IBO) was microinjected unilaterally into the striatum. In unstimulated controls, the excitotoxic lesions averaged approximately 40 mm3. Stimulation of FN, but not dentate nucleus (DN), significantly reduced lesion volumes up to 80% when IBO was injected 15 min, 72 hr, or 10 d, but not 30 d, thereafter. In other rats, intrinsic neurons of FN or DN were destroyed by pretreatment with IBO. Five days later, the FN was stimulated, and 72 hr later, IBO was microinjected into the striatum. Lesions of FN, but not DN, abolished neuroprotection but not the elevations of rCBF and AP elicited from FN stimulation. Excitotoxic lesions of FN, but not DN, also abolished the 37% reduction in focal ischemic infarctions produced by middle cerebral artery occlusion. Excitation of intrinsic FN neurons provides long-lasting, substantial, and reversible protection of central neurons from excitotoxicity, as well as focal ischemia, whereas axons in the nucleus, probably collaterals of ramified brainstem neurons, mediate the elevations in rCBF, which do not contribute to neuroprotection. Long-lived protection against a range of injuries is an unrecognized function of FN neurons transmitted over pathways distinct from those regulating rCBF.
The role of dopamine receptors in the modulation of nucleus accumbens noradrenaline release was investigated in superfused rat brain slices. At concentrations of &lt;/=1 microM, dopamine enhanced, whereas at higher concentrations dopamine inhibited electrically evoked [3H]noradrenaline release. The D1 receptor agonist SKF-38393 increased, whereas the D2 agonist quinpirole inhibited evoked [3H]noradrenaline release. These effects were attenuated by the D1 antagonist SCH-23390 and the D2 antagonist (-)-sulpiride, respectively, indicating that accumbens noradrenaline release is regulated by stimulatory D1 and inhibitory D2 receptors. Whereas (-)-sulpiride enhanced, SCH-23390 did not reduce evoked accumbens [3H]noradrenaline release, indicating a tonic activation of D2 receptors only. Given the similar apparent affinity of dopamine for D1 and D2 receptors in striatal slices, the lack of tonic D1 receptor activation suggests that D1, unlike D2, receptors are extrasynaptically localized. No dopaminergic modulation of noradrenaline release was observed in rat medial prefrontal cortex or amygdala slices. To examine the regulation of accumbens noradrenaline release under conditions of increased dopaminergic activity, measurements were made using slices of amphetamine-pretreated rats. In these slices, the electrically evoked release of [3H]dopamine and [3H]noradrenaline was enhanced. The increasing effect of (-)-sulpiride on noradrenaline release was augmented, and SCH-23390 almost completely reversed this enhancement of [3H]noradrenaline release. These data suggest that whereas although under a moderate dopaminergic tone, accumbens noradrenaline release is mainly regulated by inhibitory D2 receptors, under circumstances of increased dopaminergic activity, recruitment of extrasynaptic stimulatory D1 receptors contributes to enhancement of noradrenaline release.
Similar to astrocytes at CNS synapses, perisynaptic Schwann cells (PSCs) surround nerve terminals at the neuromuscular junction (NMJ). These special teloglial cells are sensitive to neurotransmitters and upregulate glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) when deprived of synaptic activity. We found that activation of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors (mAChRs) at PSCs, but not purinergic (ATP and adenosine) or peptidergic [substance P (SP) and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP)] receptors, prevented this upregulation. When applied onto single PSCs, muscarine evoked Ca2+ responses that fatigued but prevented upregulation of this glial cytoskeletal protein. Application of ATP onto single PSCs evoked Ca2+ signals that showed little fatigue, and GFAP upregulation occurred. Thus, Ca2+ signals alone cannot prevent GFAP upregulation in the PSCs. After blockade of cholinergic receptors by gallamine, neuronal activity was not effective in maintaining low GFAP levels in the perisynaptic glia. Last, immunohistochemistry disclosed mAChRs on PSCs and nearby fibroblasts. Thus, acetylcholine secreted by the nerve terminal acts on the PSCs via mAChRs to regulate GFAP. Cytoskeletal changes may influence perisynaptic glial functions, including growth, remodeling, and modulation of the synapse.
Dopamine and the neuropeptides Ala-Pro-Gly-Trp-NH2 (APGWamide or APGWa) and Phe-Met-Arg-Phe-NH2 (FMRFamide or FMRFa) all activate an S-like potassium channel in the light green cells of the mollusc Lymnaea stagnalis, neuroendocrine cells that release insulin-related peptides. We studied the signaling pathways underlying the responses, the role of the G-protein betagamma subunit, and the interference by phosphorylation pathways. All responses are blocked by an inhibitor of arachidonic acid (AA) release, 4-bromophenacylbromide, and by inhibitors of lipoxygenases (nordihydroguaiaretic acid and AA-861) but not by indomethacin, a cyclooxygenase inhibitor. AA and phospholipase A2 (PLA2) induced currents with similar I-V characteristics and potassium selectivity as dopamine, APGWa, and FMRFa. PLA2 occluded the response to FMRFa. We conclude that convergence of the actions of dopamine, APGWa, and FMRFa onto the S-like channel occurs at or upstream of the level of AA and that formation of lipoxygenase metabolites of AA is necessary to activate the channel. Injection of a synthetic peptide, which interferes with G-protein betagamma subunits, inhibited the agonist-induced potassium current. This suggests that betagamma subunits mediate the response, possibly by directly coupling to a phospholipase. Finally, the responses to dopamine, APGWa, and FMRFa were inhibited by activation of PKA and PKC, suggesting that the responses are counteracted by PKA- and PKC-dependent phosphorylation. The PLA2-activated potassium current was inhibited by 8-chlorophenylthio-cAMP but not by 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate (TPA). However, TPA did inhibit the potassium current induced by irreversible activation of the G-protein using GTP-gamma-S. Thus, it appears that PKA targets a site downstream of AA formation, e.g., the potassium channel, whereas PKC acts at the active G-protein or the phospholipase.
EPSCs of retinal ganglion cells decay more slowly than do those of most other CNS neurons, in part because of the long time course of glutamate release from bipolar cells. Here we investigated how glutamate clearance and AMPA receptor desensitization affect ganglion cell EPSCs in the salamander retinal slice preparation. Inhibition of glutamate uptake greatly prolonged ganglion cell EPSCs evoked by light or monosynaptic electrical stimuli but had little effect on spontaneous miniature EPSCs (mEPSCs). This suggests that single quanta of glutamate are cleared rapidly by diffusion but multiple quanta can interact to lengthen the postsynaptic response. Some interaction between quanta is likely to occur even when glutamate uptake is not inhibited. This seems to depend on quantal content, because reducing glutamate release with low Ca2+, paired-pulse depression, or weak stimuli shortened the EPSC decay. High quantal content glutamate release may lead to desensitization of postsynaptic receptors. We reduced the extent of AMPA receptor desensitization by holding ganglion cells at positive potentials. This increased the amplitude of the late phase of evoked EPSCs but did not affect the decay rate after the first 50 msec of the response. In contrast, the holding potential had little effect on mEPSC kinetics. Our results suggest that desensitization limits the late phase of AMPA receptor-mediated EPSCs, whereas glutamate uptake controls the duration of both AMPA and NMDA receptor-mediated responses.
We have identified a mammalian opsin, encephalopsin, that shows strong and specific expression in the brain. Encephalopsin defines a new family of opsins and shows highest homology to vertebrate retinal and pineal opsins. Encephalopsin is highly expressed in the preoptic area and paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, both regions implicated in encephalic photoreception in nonmammalian vertebrates. In addition, encephalopsin shows highly patterned expression in other regions of the brain, being enriched in selected regions of the cerebral cortex, cerebellar Purkinje cells, a subset of striatal neurons, selected thalamic nuclei, and a subset of interneurons in the ventral horn of the spinal cord. Rostrocaudal gradients of encephalopsin expression are present in the cortex, cerebellum, and striatum. Radial stripes of encephalopsin expression are seen in the cerebellum. In the cortex and cerebellum, encephalopsin expression is considerably higher and more highly patterned in the adult than in the neonate. Encephalopsin is the first putative extraocular opsin identified in mammals and may play a role in encephalic photoreception.
Photic entrainment of insect circadian rhythms can occur through either extraretinal (brain) or retinal photoreceptors, which mediate sensitivity to blue light or longer wavelengths, respectively. Although visual transduction processes are well understood in the insect retina, almost nothing is known about the extraretinal blue light photoreceptor of insects. We now have identified and characterized a candidate blue light photoreceptor gene in Drosophila (DCry) that is homologous to the cryptochrome (Cry) genes of mammals and plants. The DCry gene is located in region 91F of the third chromosome, an interval that does not contain other genes required for circadian rhythmicity. The protein encoded by DCry is approximately 50% identical to the CRY1 and CRY2 proteins recently discovered in mammalian species. As expected for an extraretinal photoreceptor mediating circadian entrainment, DCry mRNA is expressed within the adult brain and can be detected within body tissues. Indeed, tissue in situ hybridization demonstrates prominent expression in cells of the lateral brain, which are close to or coincident with the Drosophila clock neurons. Interestingly, DCry mRNA abundance oscillates in a circadian manner in Drosophila head RNA extracts, and the temporal phasing of the rhythm is similar to that documented for the mouse Cry1 mRNA, which is expressed in clock tissues. Finally, we show that changes in DCry gene dosage are associated predictably with alterations of the blue light resetting response for the circadian rhythm of adult locomotor activity.
The identity of the potassium channel underlying the slow, apamin-insensitive component of the afterhyperpolarization current (sIAHP) remains unknown. We studied sIAHP in CA1 pyramidal neurons using simultaneous whole-cell recording, calcium fluorescence imaging, and flash photolysis of caged compounds. Intracellular calcium concentration ([Ca2+]i) peaked earlier and decayed more rapidly than sIAHP. Loading cells with low concentrations of the calcium chelator EGTA slowed the activation and decay of sIAHP. In the presence of EGTA, intracellular calcium decayed with two time constants. When [Ca2+]i was increased rapidly after photolysis of DM-Nitrophen, both apamin-sensitive and apamin-insensitive outward currents were activated. The apamin-sensitive current activated rapidly (&lt;20 msec), whereas the apamin-insensitive current activated more slowly (180 msec). The apamin-insensitive current was reduced by application of serotonin and carbachol, confirming that it was caused by sIAHP channels. When [Ca2+]i was decreased rapidly via photolysis of diazo-2, the decay of sIAHP was similar to control (1. 7 sec). All results could be reproduced by a model potassium channel gated by calcium, suggesting that the channels underlying sIAHP have intrinsically slow kinetics because of their high affinity for calcium.
1. The whole-cell recording technique, combined with internal perfusion, was used to study the effects of intracellular Ca2+ buffering on fast, medium and slow after-hyperpolarizations (fAHP, mAHP and sAHP) in hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurones in rat brain slices at room temperature. 2. The action potentials and the fAHP were unaffected by 100 microM to 3 mM concentrations of the internally applied fast Ca2+ chelator BAPTA. At higher (10-15 mM) concentrations, BAPTA inhibited the fAHP and prolonged the decay of the action potential, suggesting that the corresponding large-conductance Ca2+-activated K+ channels are located close to the sites of Ca2+ entry during an action potential. Addition of Ca2+ to the BAPTA-containing solution (at a ratio of 4.5 [Ca2+] : 10 [BAPTA]) to maintain the control level of [Ca2+]i did not prevent the effects of high concentrations of BAPTA. 3. The mAHP, activated by a train of action potentials, was inhibited by internally applied BAPTA within the range of concentrations used (100 microM to 15 mM), and this effect could not be reversed or prevented by addition of Ca2+ to the BAPTA-containing solution. The inhibition of the mAHP by BAPTA could also be observed after blockade of the hyperpolarization-activated IQ type mixed Na+-K+ current (also known as Ih) component of the mAHP by bath-applied 3-5 mM Cs+, suggesting that the inhibition of the mAHP by BAPTA is due to inhibition of the depolarization-activated IM (muscarinic) type K+ current. 4. The sAHP, activated by a train of action potentials, was potentiated by 100-300 microM internally applied BAPTA, both with and without added Ca2+. At 1-2 mM or higher concentrations, the potentiation of the sAHP by BAPTA without added Ca2+ was transient and was followed by a fast decrease. With added Ca2+, however, BAPTA caused a persistent potentiation of the sAHP with more than a 10-fold increase in duration for periods exceeding 1 h even at concentrations of the buffer as high as 10-15 mM. Earlier reports showing a blockade of the sAHP by BAPTA, based on experiments without added Ca2+, were apparently due to a sharp reduction in intracellular free [Ca2+] and to a high intracellular concentration of the free buffer. 5. Internally applied BAPTA caused a prolongation of the spike discharge during an 800 ms-long depolarizing current step. At 100-300 microM BAPTA, but not at 1-2 mM or higher concentrations, this effect could be reversed by addition of Ca2+. The effects of BAPTA on the spike discharge occurred in parallel with the changes in the sAHP time course, which was more prolonged at higher concentrations of the buffer. 6. The concentration-dependent differential control of the three types of AHP in hippocampal neurones by BAPTA is related to modulation of intracellular Ca2+ diffusion by a fast acting mobile Ca2+ buffer.
1. Although glutamate receptors have been shown to be involved in neuronal maturation, a developmental role for kainate-type receptors has not been described. In addition, the single-channel properties of native kainate receptors have not been studied in situ. We have characterized the electrophysiological properties of native kainate receptors of granule cell neurons at two distinct stages in postnatal development, using whole-cell and outside-out patch-clamp recordings in acute cerebellar slices. 2. Kainate-type currents were detected in both immature and mature granule cells. However, noise analysis showed that the apparent unitary conductance of kainate-type channels is significantly higher in proliferating than post-migratory granule cells. The conductance and rectification behaviour of the channels in immature granule cells indicate that they contain unedited GluR5 and GluR6 subunits and are likely to be calcium permeable. 3. Single-channel kainate-type currents were observed in outside-out patches from proliferating granule cells in the external germinal layer. The kinetic behaviour of kainate receptors in immature cells was complex. Openings to multiple conductance levels were observed, although our analysis indicates that the channels spend most of their open time in a 4 pS state.
We introduce the independent factor analysis (IFA) method for recovering independent hidden sources from their observed mixtures. IFA generalizes and unifies ordinary factor analysis (FA), principal component analysis (PCA), and independent component analysis (ICA), and can handle not only square noiseless mixing but also the general case where the number of mixtures differs from the number of sources and the data are noisy. IFA is a two-step procedure. In the first step, the source densities, mixing matrix, and noise covariance are estimated from the observed data by maximum likelihood. For this purpose we present an expectation-maximization (EM) algorithm, which performs unsupervised learning of an associated probabilistic model of the mixing situation. Each source in our model is described by a mixture of gaussians; thus, all the probabilistic calculations can be performed analytically. In the second step, the sources are reconstructed from the observed data by an optimal nonlinear estimator. A variational approximation of this algorithm is derived for cases with a large number of sources, where the exact algorithm becomes intractable. Our IFA algorithm reduces to the one for ordinary FA when the sources become gaussian, and to an EM algorithm for PCA in the zero-noise limit. We derive an additional EM algorithm specifically for noiseless IFA. This algorithm is shown to be superior to ICA since it can learn arbitrary source densities from the data. Beyond blind separation, IFA can be used for modeling multidimensional data by a highly constrained mixture of gaussians and as a tool for nonlinear signal encoding.
Pseudorabies virus (PRV) is widely used to map synaptically-linked neural circuits in adult animals. The present study sought to determine whether PRV has similar utility in neonatal rats, and whether central PRV infection in neonates elicits astrocytic and microglia/macrophage responses similar to those that contribute to specific transynaptic neuronal infection in adult rats. Retrograde transneuronal infection of autonomic circuits was examined 24-64 h after injection of an attenuated strain of PRV (PRV-Bartha) into the ventral stomach wall of 1-day-old rats. Brain and spinal cord sections were processed for immunocytochemical detection of PRV. Alternate sections were processed for immunolocalization of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) to identify fibrous astrocytes, or for an antigen associated with the complement C3bi receptor (OX42) to identify microglia. As in adult rats, the number and distribution of infected CNS neurons in neonatal rats increased progressively with advancing post-inoculation survival. Infected CNS neurons initially were restricted to the thoracic intermediolateral cell column and the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus. Longer survival times led to retrograde transynaptic infection of additional neurons in the thoracic spinal cord, nucleus of the solitary tract, ventrolateral medulla, and caudal raphe nuclei. At the longest post-inoculation intervals, infected neurons also were observed in the area postrema and in certain autonomic-related regions of the rostral brainstem, hypothalamus, and amygdala. Quantitative analysis of immunolabeling in the dorsal vagal complex demonstrated that regions containing neurons at early stages of viral infection displayed increased astrocytic GFAP immunostaining; conversely, areas containing neurons at later stages of infection were characterized by a significant loss of GFAP staining and a parallel increase of OX42 microglia/macrophage immunolabeling. We conclude that PRV is effectively transported through synaptically-linked CNS circuits in neonatal rats, and that spatiotemporally-ordered responses by non-neuronal cells may contribute to the synaptic specificity of transneuronal viral transport.
In the near future, a number of transgenic mouse models with neuropathological characteristics of Alzheimer's disease are expected to become widely available. It will be important to characterize their behavior in models for learning and memory. As a first step, we have characterized normal, medial septal-lesioned and hippocampal-lesioned C57BL mice, in different behavioral tests, i.e., water maze spatial navigation, Y-maze and passive avoidance behavior. These experiments were complemented by an investigation of the effects of acute treatment with an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor, metrifonate, in these behavioral tests. Normal C75BL mice perform very well in the water maze and the Y-maze, but suboptimally in the passive avoidance task. Lesioning of the medial septum or the dorsal hippocampus clearly impaired the performance of the mice. In medial septal-lesioned mice, metrifonate stimulated spatial navigation and alleviated the loss of activity in the Y-maze and passive avoidance. In hippocampal-lesioned mice, metrifonate had no effect on spatial navigation. It is concluded that C75BL mice are useful for testing in classical models for learning and memory, and that septohippocampal pathology is very likely to induce cognitive deficits in some of these models.
The NMDA receptor is one of the ionotropic glutamate receptors essential for excitatory neurotransmission. The NMDAR1 subunit is inactivated by direct interaction with calmodulin. The protein levels of calmodulin, NMDAR1 and their complex were quantified in tissue resected from epileptogenic and non-epileptogenic cortical areas as determined by chronic subdural electrode recordings from three patients (aged 6, 14 and 18 years) with focal epilepsy associated with cortical dysplasia. In all patients, the co-assembly of calmodulin and NMDAR1 was decreased in epileptogenic dysplastic cortex compared with normal appearing non-epileptogenic cortex, while there was no significant difference in the total protein levels of calmodulin or NMDAR1 between the two EEG groups. These results suggest that decreased calmodulin-NMDAR1 co-assembly is a cellular mechanism that contributes to hyperexcitability in dysplastic cortical neurons and in focal seizure onsets.
Several lines of evidence suggest that attenuated neurotrophin signaling may account for some of the aging-related phenotypic changes observed in motor and sensory neurons. Glial-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) signals through the GFRalpha-1-RET receptor complex and has trophic effects on both primary sensory neurons and, in particular, motoneurons. In this study we provide evidence using RT-PCR that GDNF, but not neurturin, is strongly up-regulated in target muscles (800%) and to a lesser extent also in peripheral supportive tissues. Results here, and in an earlier study, show that the up-regulation of GDNF in target and supportive tissues parallels an increased neuronal expression of the cognate receptors. Increased GDNF signaling may explain some of the phenotypic characteristics of aging sensory and motoneurons.
Numerous studies have suggested that changes in electrophysiological properties of primary sensory neurons after axonal injury contribute to the generation of neuropathic pain. Presently, however, it is unclear which of the changes is important. To address this issue, we performed behavioral and electrophysiological experiments in a double-blind fashion; we made intracellular recordings in the S1 dorsal root ganglia excised from rats exhibiting cold allodynia behavior after chronic S1 spinal nerve transaction (allodynia-positive group) and from rats lacking such behavior after the same nerve injury (allodynia-negative group) or sham injury (sham group). In this study, we sought which of the membrane property changes produced by the spinal nerve injury in each of C-, Adelta- and Aalpha/beta-cell populations was unique to the allodynia-positive group. Analyses of our data revealed that only some changes in Adelta-cells (e.g. the decrease in resting membrane potential and in the threshold of central process) were more pronounced in or unique to the allodynia-positive group. We concluded that certain membrane property changes in the somata and dorsal root axons of Adelta-cells might be important in the generation of cold allodynia.
The identification of endogenous neurotrophic factors and their receptors in human spinal cord is important not only to understand development, but also in the consideration of possible future therapies for neurodegenerative disorders and trauma. Using in situ hybridization, the expression of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), neurturin (NTN), persephin (PSP), GFRalpha-1, GFRalpha-2, GFRalpha-3 and RET mRNA in human fetal spinal cord was studied. Strong GDNF mRNA hybridization signal, presumably restricted to Clarke's nucleus, was detected in the thoracic spinal cord. mRNA encoding GFRalpha-1 was expressed in the entire spinal cord gray matter with particularly high expression in the ventral horn. GFRbeta-1 was also expressed more weakly in dorsal root ganglia. NTN and persephin mRNA were not detected in either the fetal spinal cord or the dorsal root ganglia. mRNA coding for GFRalpha-2, however, was found in most cells of the spinal cord gray matter. A strong expression of GFRalpha-3 mRNA was detected in dorsal root ganglia cells and Schwann cells. The transducing receptor RET was expressed strongly in motorneurons and dorsal root ganglion neurons. We conclude that basic features concerning the role of the GDNF family of ligands and their receptors revealed in rodents applies to humans.
The C-terminal 105 amino acid fragment of beta-amyloid precursor protein (CT105) is highly neurotoxic. To obtain insights into its cytotoxic effect, we examined the ionophoric effects of CT105 (10-1000 nM) on artificial lipid membranes. Macroscopic membrane conductance increased with CT105 concentration and its ionophoric effect was comparable to that of amyloid beta protein. The mean unitary conductance of CT105-induced channels was 120 pS and open-state probability was close to 1 at voltages from -80 to +80 mV. CT105induced channels were selective to cations (PK/ P(Cl) = 10.2), being most selective to Ca2+. These findings suggest that CT105 can cause direct neurotoxic effects by forming Ca2+ permeable cation channels on neuronal membranes.
RAFT1 (rapamycin and FKBP12 target 1; also called FRAP or mTOR) is a member of the ATM (ataxia telangiectasia mutated)-related family of proteins and functions as the in vivo mediator of the effects of the immunosuppressant rapamycin and as an important regulator of messenger RNA translation. In mammalian cells RAFT1 interacted with gephyrin, a widely expressed protein necessary for the clustering of glycine receptors at the cell membrane of neurons. RAFT1 mutants that could not associate with gephyrin failed to signal to downstream molecules, including the p70 ribosomal S6 kinase and the eIF-4E binding protein, 4E-BP1. The interaction with gephyrin ascribes a function to the large amino-terminal region of an ATM-related protein and reveals a role in signal transduction for the clustering protein gephyrin.
Complex problem-solving and planning involve the most anterior part of the frontal lobes including the fronto-polar prefrontal cortex (FPPC), which is especially well developed in humans compared with other primates. The specific role of this region in human cognition, however, is poorly understood. Here we show, using functional magnetic resonance imaging, that bilateral regions in the FPPC alone are selectively activated when subjects have to keep in mind a main goal while performing concurrent (sub)goals. Neither keeping in mind a goal over time (working memory) nor successively allocating attentional resources between alternative goals (dual-task performance) could by themselves activate these regions. Our results indicate that the FPPC selectively mediates the human ability to hold in mind goals while exploring and processing secondary goals, a process generally required in planning and reasoning.

The sulfhydryl groups of the three cysteines in bovine arrestin react with DTNB very slowly (over a period of several hours). In the presence of the synthetic phosphopeptide comprising the fully phosphorylated carboxyl-terminal 19 amino acids of bovine rhodopsin, the reactivity of one of the sulfhydryls was enhanced while that of another was greatly reduced. Since this synthetic peptide was shown to activate arrestin with respect to its binding to unphosphorylated, light-activated rhodopsin, the reactivity of the sulfhydryl groups of a constitutively active R175Q arrestin mutant was examined. All three of the sulfhydryl groups of the mutant arrestin R175Q reacted rapidly with DTNB, but not as rapidly as with SDS-denatured arrestin. The arrestin mutant R175Q bound to light-activated, unphosphorylated rhodopsin in ROS disk membranes. The arrestin mutant R175Q also inhibited the light-activated PDE activity with an IC50 of 1.3 microM under the experimental conditions that were used. These data indicate that each of these forms of arrestin is a different conformation. The activated conformation of arrestin that binds to phosphorylated rhodopsin in vivo may be yet another conformation. We conclude that arrestin is a flexible molecule that is able to attain several different conformations, all of which are able to attain the activated functional state of arrestin.
The biological actions of anandamide (arachidonylethanolamide), an endogenous cannabinoid lipid, are terminated by a two-step inactivation process consisting of carrier-mediated uptake and intracellular hydrolysis. Anandamide uptake in neurons and astrocytes is mediated by a high-affinity, Na+-independent transporter that is selectively inhibited by N-(4-hydroxyphenyl)-arachidonamide (AM404). In the present study, we examined the structural determinants governing recognition and translocation of substrates by the anandamide transporter constitutively expressed in a human astrocytoma cell line. Competition experiments with a select group of analogs suggest that substrate recognition by the transporter is favored by a polar nonionizable head group of defined stereochemical configuration containing a hydroxyl moiety at its distal end. The secondary carboxamide group interacts favorably with the transporter, but may be replaced with either a tertiary amide or an ester, suggesting that it may serve as hydrogen acceptor. Thus, 2-arachidonylglycerol, a putative endogenous cannabinoid ester, also may serve as a substrate for the transporter. Substrate recognition requires the presence of at least one cis double bond situated at the middle of the fatty acid carbon chain, indicating a preference for ligands whose hydrophobic tail can adopt a bent U-shaped conformation. On the other hand, uptake experiments with radioactively labeled substrates show that no fewer than four cis nonconjugated double bonds are required for optimal translocation across the cell membrane, suggesting that substrates are transported in a folded hairpin conformation. These results outline the general structural requisites for anandamide transport and may assist in the development of selective inhibitors with potential clinical applications.
Recently we cloned the cDNA encoding human Fe65L2, which interacts with Alzheimer's beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP). The protein has one WW domain and two PID elements (Neurosci. Lett. (1999) 261, 143-146.). Here, we report the entire genome structure and the chromosomal mapping of the Fe65L2 gene. The gene is composed of thirteen coding exons distributed over 6 kb and the genomic organization is similar to another Fe65 member, Fe65 gene. Two transcription start sites of the gene were found in a CpG island by primer extension analysis. Radiation hybrid mapping revealed that the Fe65L2 gene is on chromosome 5 between markers SHGC-9824 (D5S2374) and SHGC-8489 (D5S2569). Characterization of the Fe65L2 gene structure will be useful in the linkage analysis and search for mutations in the Fe65L2 gene in patients with Alzheimer's disease.
The cytoplasmic domain of Alzheimer's beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP) can be phosphorylated at Thr654, Ser655, and Thr668 (APP695 isoform numbering). Previous studies demonstrated that Ser655 of APP was phosphorylated by protein kinase C (PKC) and calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) in vitro and by unidentified protein kinase(s) in vivo. We report here the characterization of a novel protein kinase (designated APP kinase I) which phosphorylates Ser655 of APP. APP kinase I was partially purified over 7,000-fold from rat brain and identified as a approximately 43 kDa protein that is distinct from a number of known protein kinases, including PKC and extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERKs). The identification of a novel protein kinase that phosphorylates Ser655 will hopefully contribute to our understanding of the metabolism and/or function of APP in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD).
Pseudorabies virus (PRV), a neurotropic swine alpha herpesvirus, has been used extensively for transneuronal analysis ofmultisynaptic circuitry after peripheral injection. In the present analysis, we examined the influence of viral concentration and neuronal architecture on the invasiveness, replication, and transynaptic passage of an attenuated strain of PRV (PRV-Bartha) injected into rat striatum. Different concentrations of PRV-Bartha were injected into the striatum at a constant rate of infusion (10 nl/minute), and animals were killed 50 hours later. Viral concentration was manipulated by either altering the volume of the inoculum (100, 50, 20 nl) or by diluting the inoculum within a constant volume of 100 nl. Immunohistochemical localization of infected neurons revealed dramatic differences in the progression of infection that were dependent directly on the concentration of injected virus. In every case, the pattern of infection was consistent with preferential uptake of virions by axon terminals and retrograde transynaptic passage of virus from the injection site. The known topographically organized corticostriatal projections permitted a precise definition of the zone of viral uptake. This analysis demonstrated that the &quot;effective zone of viral uptake&quot; (i.e., the zone within which viral uptake led to productive replication of virus) varied in relation to the concentration of injected virus, with the highest concentration of PRV invading terminals within a 500 microm radius of the canula. Concentration-dependent changes in the progression of retrograde transynaptic infection also were observed. The highest concentration of virus produced the most extensive infection. The distribution of infected neurons in these cases included those with known afferent projections to striatum as well as those that became infected by retrograde transynaptic infection. Lesser concentrations of PRV-Bartha produced an increasingly restricted infection of the same circuitry within the same postinoculation interval. It is noteworthy that neurons known to elaborate dense striatal terminal fields were less sensitive to reduction in viral concentration than those giving rise to terminal fields of lesser density. Collectively, the data indicate that the onset of viral replication after intracerebral injection of PRV is directly dependent on virus concentration and terminal field density at the site of virus injection.
Reticulospinal sympathoexcitatory neurons of rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVL) are selectively excited by hypoxia to elevate arterial pressure (AP) and cerebral blood flow (rCBF), that are elements of the oxygen-conserving (diving) reflex. We investigated whether KATP+-channels participate in this. Tolbutamide and glibenclamide, KATP+-channel blockers, microinjected into RVL in anesthetized rats, dose-dependently and site-specifically elevated AP and rCBF and potentiated responses to hypoxemia. KATP+-channels may mediate hypoxic excitation of oxygen-sensing RVL neurons.
Intraplantarly (i.pl.)-injected morphine showed a peripheral analgesia in experiments to assess the blockade of bradykinin (i.pl.)-induced nociceptive flexor response in mice. The peripheral morphine analgesia in mice which developed central analgesic tolerance to chronic morphine (10 mg/kg s.c., 5 days), was equivalent to that in vehicle-treated mice in any doses between 0.1 and 1 nmol (i.pl.). These findings suggest that morphine tolerance in the central analgesia may use unique mechanisms deficient in the peripheral nervous system.




The atypical antipsychotic olanzapine has relatively high affinity for a number of neuronal receptors in radioreceptor binding assays. The ability of olanzapine to activate or antagonize a number of neuronal receptors was investigated in vitro, in cell lines transfected selectively with receptor subtypes and in receptor-selective isolated tissue studies. Olanzapine had no agonist activity at any of the receptors examined. However, olanzapine was a potent antagonist of 5-HT-stimulated increases in IP3 in cell lines transfected with 5-HT2A or 5-HT2B receptors with IC50 values of 30-40 nM. Olanzapine weakly blocked 5-HT-induced formation of IP3 in cell lines transfected with 5-HT2c receptors, but in this cell line potently inhibited 5-HT-stimulated [35S]GTP gamma S binding with a Ki value of 15 nM. Olanzapine blocked dopamine-stimulated adenylyl cyclase in rat retina with modest potency (Ki = 69 nM), consistent with its relatively low affinity for dopamine D1 receptors. Olanzapine blocked agonist-induced activities at the muscarinic receptor subtypes M1, M2, M3, and M5 with Ki values of 70, 622, 126, and 82 nM, respectively. In studies using cell lines transfected with muscarinic M4 receptors, olanzapine and the atypical antipsychotic clozapine did not have agonist activities as determined with cAMP inhibition and stimulation assays, arachidonic acid release and [35S]GTP gamma S binding assays. However, olanzapine antagonized agonist-induced effects in muscarinic M4 cells with a Ki value of 350 nM. In isolated tissue studies, olanzapine potently blocked agonist-induced effects at alpha 1-adrenergic and histamine H1 receptors (KB = 9 and 19 nM, respectively). Thus, olanzapine was an antagonist at all receptors investigated and was a particularly potent antagonist at 5-HT2A, 5-HT2B, 5-HT2C, alpha 1-adrenergic and histamine H1 receptors. Olanzapine was a weaker antagonist at muscarinic and dopamine D1 receptors.
Event-related potentials (ERPs) were recorded from 15 schizophrenic patients and 17 normal controls in an auditory oddball paradigm in order to investigate the effects of stimulus probability and interstimulus interval (ISI) on deficits in mismatch negativity (MMN) generation in schizophrenia. MMN amplitude was reduced for schizophrenics overall, with the degree of deficit increasing as deviant probability decreased. In contrast, schizophrenic subjects were no more affected by alterations in ISI than controls. The experimental design also permitted evaluation of N1 generation as a function of ISI in schizophrenia. Schizophrenic subjects showed decreased N1 amplitude across conditions, with the degree of deficit increasing with increasing ISI. For both MMN and N1, therefore, the degree of deficit increased with increasing component amplitude in normals, implying that the deficit in ERP generation in schizophrenia may reflect a decrease in maximal current flow through underlying neuronal ensembles. The observed pattern of dysfunction is consistent both with observations of impaired precision of processing in schizophrenia, and with predictions of the PCP/NMDA model.
The syntheses of a number of different N-linked heterocyclic pyrazole replacements based on the structure 1 are described (compounds 3-12) as hD4 ligands. After further optimisation the best compound identified was 13 which has high affinity for hD4 (5.2 nM) and &gt;300-fold selectivity for hD4 receptors over hD2 and hD3 receptors.
The present study was conducted to investigate the role of cytochrome P450 in the discriminative-stimulus and antinociceptive effects of hydrocodone (HC) and hydromorphone (HM) in rhesus monkeys. In morphine-deprived monkeys, morphine dose-dependently reversed naltrexone-lever responding, an effect also produced by HC and HM. HC and HM also produced antinociception in a warm-water tail withdrawal procedure. Budipine and naltrexone shifted the dose-effect curves for the discriminative-stimulus effects of HC and HM to the right. In contrast, naltrexone, but not budipine (10.0 mg/kg) or quinidine (10.0 mg/kg), dose-dependently antagonized the antinociceptive effects of HC. Budipine and quinidine decreased the concentration of HM in plasma without significantly affecting the levels of HC, suggesting that these CYP2D6 inhibitors decreased the conversion of HC HM. Thus, some behavioral effects of HC are not modified by a marked inhibition of CYP2D6, suggesting that these effects of HC are not due to its conversion to HM but, rather, that both HC and HM act directly on mu receptors.
Thalamocortical afferents in the visual cortex of the adult sable ferret are segregated into eye-specific ocular dominance bands. The development of ocular dominance bands was studied by transneuronal labeling of the visual cortices of ferret kits between the ages of postnatal day 28 (P28) and P81 after intravitreous injections of either tritiated proline or wheat germ agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase. Laminar specificity was evident in the youngest animals studied and was similar to that in the adult by P50. In P28 and P30 ferret kits, no modulation reminiscent of ocular dominance bands was detectable in the pattern of labeling along layer IV. By P37 a slight fluctuation in the density of labeling in layer IV was evident in serial reconstructions. By P50, the amplitude of modulation had increased considerably but the pattern of ocular dominance bands did not yet appear mature. The pattern and degree of modulation of the ocular dominance bands resembled that in adult animals by P63. Flat mounts of cortex and serial reconstructions of layer IV revealed an unusual arrangement of inputs serving the two eyes in the region rostral to the periodic ocular dominance bands. In this region, inputs serving the contralateral eye were commonly fused along a mediolateral axis, rostral to which were large and sometimes fused patches of ipsilateral input.

Recent studies have shown that Cerebrolysin can enhance synaptic function and ameliorate synaptodendritic alterations in animal models of neurodegeneration, suggesting a synaptotrophic effect. We hypothesize that Cerebrolysin might exert this effect, in part, by regulating the expression of amyloid precursor protein (APP). We studied the patterns of expression of synaptic proteins during differentiation of human teratocarcinoma cell line NTera 2 (NT2) in the presence or absence of Cerebrolysin. This study showed that the terminally differentiated neurons (NT2N) expressed a wide variety of synaptic markers and that expression of these synaptic-associated proteins coincided with the shift in expression from APP770/751 to APP695. Furthermore, APP immunoreactivity was colocalized with synaptophysin-immunoreactive neuritic varicosities in NT2N neurites, and Cerebrolysin treatment of NT2N cells resulted in an augmented and earlier expression of synaptic-associated proteins. This increased synaptic protein expression coincided with an increase in APP695 over APP770/751. These results support the possibility that synaptotrophic effects of Cerebrolysin might be mediated via regulation of APP expression.
Since the nebulin gene is located in the candidate gene locus of autosomal recessive nemaline myopathy, 2q21.2-q22, we examined five muscle biopsy specimens with monoclonal and polyclonal antibodies against nebulin in combination with the modified Gomori trichrome stain. We were able to demonstrate immunohistochemically that there was no abnormality in nebulin in the muscle fibers both with and without nemaline bodies. Although the molecular weight of nebulin was normal, it was slightly reduced in amount on immunoblotting.
A total population of high-school students aged 16-17 years in a Swedish town was screened for depression and previous suicide attempts, and 2300 students (93.3%) participated. Those with high depression scores (12.3%) and previous suicide attempts (2.4%), as well as controls matched for gender and education, were interviewed for diagnosis (DICA-R-A), and 88.8% participated. The 1-year prevalence of major depression was 5.8% and the lifetime prevalence was 11.4%, with four girls being represented for every boy. A depression lasting for at least 1 year was the most common type. Dysthymia was found in 2% (two girls for every boy). Short hypomanic episodes were present in 13.2% of those with a lifetime diagnosis of major depression.


DBA/2J mice repeatedly exposed to ethanol (2 g/kg, i.p. every 48 h for 8 days) exhibit sensitization to the locomotor stimulant effects of ethanol. Pretreatment with the NMDA receptor antagonist dizocilpine (0.2-0.3 mg/kg, i.p.) completely prevents the development of sensitization. Thus, NMDA receptors appear to play an important role in behavioural sensitization to ethanol.
A 24-yr-old, completely (T8) paraplegic male patient presenting with severe spasticity had a drug administration device implanted in April 1991 for continuous intrathecal administration of baclofen. After a period of remarkable improvement in both the spasticity level and his quality of life, the patient experienced several short-lasting episodes of increased spasticity, with severe spasms. Among the possible causes of these deleterious episodes were microcrystalluria, obstipation, a decubitus ulcer, a foreign body in the buttocks, drug tolerance to baclofen, electromagnetic interference, and erroneous filling and programing of the pump. The catheter was the most common source of intrathecal baclofen withdrawal symptoms and had to be changed four times in 5 yr. Intrathecal baclofen administered through an implantable drug administration device is a highly effective but complex and expensive procedure that requires careful patient selection and close monitoring by highly qualified and well-trained health professional. Withdrawal symptoms may be related to noncompliance on the part of the patient, erroneous filling or programing of the pump, depletion of the battery, random component failure, concomitant illness, drug tolerance, or advancement of the disease itself. When failure of the device is suspected, substitution with oral baclofen is recommended until a full work-up is performed to determine the defect.
Opioid receptors are activated during severe hemorrhage, resulting in sympathoinhibition and a profound fall in blood pressure. This study examined the location and subtypes of opioid receptors that might contribute to hypotension after hemorrhage. Intrathecal naloxone methiodide (100 nmol) abolished the fall in blood pressure after hemorrhage (1.5% of body wt; mean arterial pressure 122 +/- 8 mmHg after naloxone methiodide vs. 46 +/- 5 mmHg in controls, P &lt; 0. 001). Intracisternal naloxone methiodide was less effective than intrathecal naloxone methiodide, whereas intravenous naloxone methiodide, which does not cross the blood-brain barrier, did not alter the fall in blood pressure after hemorrhage. These results demonstrate that spinal opioid receptors contribute to hypotension after hemorrhage but do not exclude supraspinal effects. In separate experiments, the subtype-specific opioid antagonists ICI-174864 (delta-antagonist), norbinaltorphimine (nor-BNI; kappa-antagonist), and H-D-Phe-Cys-Tyr-D-Trp-Orn-Thr-Pen-Thr-NH2 (CTOP; mu-antagonist) were each administered intrathecally to determine the minimum dose that would attenuate hypotension during severe hemorrhage. These antagonists were effective at similar doses (3 nmol for CTOP, 6 nmol for ICI-174864, and 10 nmol for nor-BNI), although the binding affinities of these three different agents for their target receptors varied &gt;1600-fold. Comparisons of the minimum effective doses of these antagonists in relation to their binding affinities provides strong evidence for the participation of delta-receptors in mediating hypotension after hemorrhage. In contrast, the dose at which nor-BNI was effective suggests an effect at delta-receptors but not kappa-receptors. The efficacy of CTOP, albeit at a high dose, also suggests an effect at mu-receptors.
The role of estradiol in mediating leptin's effects on body weight was assessed in ovariectomized (OVX) mice before and after the onset of obesity. Ovariectomy did not alter leptin levels before the onset of obesity, and estradiol adminstration (0.05-17 microgram/day for 14 days) did not significantly alter leptin levels if they were corrected for the estradiol-induced reduction in body fat. The converse was also true, in that leptin administration (0.4-140 microgram/day) did not alter estradiol levels in intact mice. Furthermore, neither estradiol reduction (via ovariectomy) nor addition (via exogenous administration) significantly altered leptin's ability to reduce fat mass. Leptin was equally effective in reducing body weight in lean or obese OVX mice and intact controls. Finally, estradiol did not change the magnitude of leptin's effect on fat mass reduction when it was given in combination with leptin to lean intact or OVX mice. Estradiol may have indirectly affected leptin efficacy, because leptin did not produce as large a change in fat mass at lower doses in lean OVX mice as it did in intact counterparts. Taken together, these data suggested that 1) estradiol does not directly regulate leptin secretion or its effects on fat mass and 2) leptin does not directly regulate estradiol secretion or its effects on fat mass. Leptin and estradiol, however, may interact in an indirect fashion to affect fat utilization.
We previously reported that rats exposed to repeated restraint (3 h/day for 3 days) experience temporary hypophagia and a sustained reduction in body weight compared with nonrestrained controls. Studies described here determined the involvement of central corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) receptors in the initiation of this chronic response to acute stress. In experiment 1, Sprague-Dawley rats were fitted with cannulas in the lateral ventricle and infused with 50 micrograms of alphahCRF-(9-41) or saline immediately before restraint on each of the 3 days of restraint. The receptor antagonist inhibited hypophagia and weight loss on day 1 of restraint but not on days 2 and 3. In experiment 2, 10 micrograms of alphahCRF-(9-41) or saline were infused into the third ventricle immediately before each restraint. The receptor antagonist totally blocked stress-induced hypophagia and weight loss. These results demonstrate that CRF receptors located in or near the hypothalamus mediate the acute responses to stress that lead to a permanent change in the hormonal or metabolic processes that determine body weight and body composition.
Because food intake is a function of meal number and meal size and because gender-related hormones are involved in feeding regulation, we explored effects of orchiectomy and testosterone replacement on the relationship between meal number and size and changes in resulting feeding patterns in adult male rats, randomized into orchiectomy and sham-operation groups. A rat eater meter measured feeding indexes for 1 wk before and 2 wk after castration and during 8 days of testosterone replacement. Orchiectomy leads to an immediate change in the meal number-to-size relationship, resulting in 1) change in pattern of feeding; 2) a significant decrease in dark-phase meal number; 3) a significant increase in dark-phase meal size, but insufficient to offset decrease in meal number, so total food intake significantly decreased during dark phase; 4) no significant change in light-phase meal number; and 5) an increase in meal size leading to an increased food intake during light phase, which offset decreased food intake in dark cycle and resulted in no net significant change in food intake after orchiectomy. Testosterone replacement acutely reversed effects of orchiectomy on meal number-to-meal size relationship, restoring feeding pattern. Data suggest that androgens immediately influence the meal number-to-meal size relationship. The speed of onset seen after orchiectomy suggests that the influence of testosterone on food intake may also occur partially via a nongenomic effect.




Polymorphic color vision is characteristic of many species of New World monkey. A fundamental feature of the polymorphism is that male monkeys are routinely dichromatic. A recent paper describes an experiment in which Cebus monkeys were required to discriminate between pairs of Munsell color chips (Pessoa VF, Tavares MCH, Aguiar L, Gomes UR, Tomaz C. Color vision discrimination in the capuchin monkey Cebus apella: evidence for trichromaticity. Behav Brain Res 1997;89:285-288). The results were interpreted as demonstrating trichromatic color vision in male Cebus monkeys. An examination of the literature on Cebus. monkey photopigments and results from a replication of the discrimination experiment conducted with dichromatic human subjects cast doubt on this claim.
The axons of the neurons in the medial and lateral components of the entorhinal cortex (MEC and LEC) form the medial and lateral perforant paths (MPP and LPP) which represent the major source of cortical input to the hippocampus. Anatomical, physiological, and pharmacological studies have shown that MPP and LPP are distinct. Unfortunately, assessment of the functional significance of damage to either of these pathways has not used tasks known to be sensitive to hippocampal function in the rodent. In this study, we performed dissociated lesions of MPP and LPP using a combined physiological and anatomical method. Rats with lesions of either the MPP or the LPP were tested on place learning in the water task and on a discriminative fear conditioning to context task. The results indicated that the MPP, but not LPP, lesions resulted in impaired place learning. The context discrimination data revealed an amygdala-like, reduced fear effect of MPP lesions and an enhanced discriminative fear conditioning to context effect of LPP lesions. Consistent with a two-stage model of spatial learning proposed by Buzsaki (Buzsaki G. Two-stage model of memory trace formation: a role for 'noisy' brain states. Neuroscience 1989;31(3):551-570), the impairment in the water task can be interpreted as reflecting the higher efficiency of the MPP synapses in activating hippocampal neurons. The context discrimination results can be explained by either a dissociation of sensory information that reaches the MEC and LEC, or alternatively, by a dissociation between the limbic nature of the MEC and the sensory nature of the LEC.
Using Stein's model with and without reversal potentials, we investigated the mechanism of production of spike trains with a CV (ISI)(standard deviation/mean interspike interval) greater than 0.5, as observed in the visual cortex. When the attractor of the deterministic part of the dynamics is below the firing threshold, spike generation results primarily from random fluctuations. Using computer simulation for a range of membrane decay times and with other model parameters set to values appropriate for the visual cortex, we demonstrate that CV (ISI) is then usually greater than 0.5; if the attractor is above the threshold, spike generation is mainly due to deterministic forces, and CV (ISI) is then usually lower than 0.5. The critical value of the inhibitory postsynaptic potential (IPSP) rate at which CV (ISI) becomes greater than 0.5 is determined, resulting in specifications of how neurones might adjust their synaptic inputs to elicit irregular spike trains.

Conformational analysis of constrained cyclohexane systems was pioneered fifty years ago by Barton and Hassel. We now report an investigation based on a conformational analysis of a number of novel cyclohexane based Gabapentin analogues coupled with their in vitro evaluation at the Gabapentin binding site. These data are used to propose a possible binding conformation for Gabapentin.
N-type calcium channels inactivate most rapidly in response to moderate, not extreme depolarization. This behavior reflects an inactivation rate that bears a U-shaped dependence on voltage. Despite this apparent similarity to calcium-dependent inactivation, N-type channel inactivation is insensitive to the identity of divalent charge carrier and, in some reports, to the level of internal buffering of divalent cations. Hence, the inactivation of N-type channels fits poorly with the &quot;classic&quot; profile for either voltage-dependent or calcium-dependent inactivation. To investigate this unusual inactivation behavior, we expressed recombinant N-type calcium channels in mammalian HEK 293 cells, permitting in-depth correlation of ionic current inactivation with potential alterations of gating current properties. Such correlative measurements have been particularly useful in distinguishing among various inactivation mechanisms in other voltage-gated channels. Our main results are the following: 1) The degree of gating charge immobilization was unchanged by the block of ionic current and precisely matched by the extent of ionic current inactivation. These results argue for a purely voltage-dependent mechanism of inactivation. 2) The inactivation rate was fastest at a voltage where only approximately (1)/(3) of the total gating charge had moved. This unusual experimental finding implies that inactivation occurs most rapidly from intermediate closed conformations along the activation pathway, as we demonstrate with novel analytic arguments applied to coupled-inactivation schemes. These results provide strong, complementary support for a &quot;preferential closed-state&quot; inactivation mechanism, recently proposed on the basis of ionic current measurements of recombinant N-type channels (Patil et al., . Neuron. 20:1027-1038).
A video-rate (30 frames/s) scanning two-photon excitation microscope has been successfully tested. The microscope, based on a Nikon RCM 8000, incorporates a femtosecond pulsed laser with wavelength tunable from 690 to 1050 nm, prechirper optics for laser pulse-width compression, resonant galvanometer for video-rate point scanning, and a pair of nonconfocal detectors for fast emission ratioing. An increase in fluorescent emission of 1.75-fold is consistently obtained with the use of the prechirper optics. The nonconfocal detectors provide another 2.25-fold increase in detection efficiency. Ratio imaging and optical sectioning can therefore be performed more efficiently without confocal optics. Faster frame rates, at 60, 120, and 240 frames/s, can be achieved with proportionally reduced scan lines per frame. Useful two-photon images can be acquired at video rate with a laser power as low as 2.7 mW at specimen with the genetically modified green fluorescent proteins. Preliminary results obtained using this system confirm that the yellow &quot;cameleons&quot; exhibit similar optical properties as under one-photon excitation conditions. Dynamic two-photon images of cardiac myocytes and ratio images of yellow cameleon-2.1, -3.1, and -3.1nu are also presented.
The modulation of depolarization (4-aminopyridine, 2 mM)-evoked endogenous glutamate release by kappa-opioid receptor activation and blockade of voltage-dependent Ca2+ -channels has been investigated in synaptosomes prepared from rat and marmoset striatum. 4-Aminopyridine (4-AP)-stimulated, Ca2+ -dependent glutamate release was inhibited by enadoline, a selective kappa-opioid receptor agonist, in a concentration-dependent and norbinaltorphimine (nor-BNI, selective kappa-opioid receptor antagonist)-sensitive manner in rat (IC50 = 4.4+/-0.4 microM) and marmoset (IC50 = 2.9+/-0.7 microM) striatal synaptosomes. However, in the marmoset, there was a significant (approximately 23%) nor-BNI-insensitive component. In rat striatal synaptosomes, the Ca2+ -channel antagonists omega-agatoxin-IVA (P/Q-type blocker), omega-conotoxin-MVIIC (N/P/Q-type blocker) and omega-conotoxin-GVIA (N-type blocker) reduced 4-AP-stimulated, Ca2+ -dependent glutamate release in a concentration-dependent manner with IC50 values of 6.5+/-0.9 nM, 75.5+5.9 nM and 106.5+/-8.7 nM, respectively. In marmoset striatal synaptosomes, 4-AP-stimulated, Ca2+ -dependent glutamate release was significantly inhibited by omega-agatoxin-IVA (30 nM, 57.6+/-2.3%, inhibition), omega-conotoxin-MVIIC (300 nM, 57.8+/-3.1%) and omega-conotoxin-GVIA (1 microM, 56.7+/-2%). Studies utilizing combinations of Ca2+ -channel antagonists suggests that in the rat striatum, two relatively distinct pools of glutamate, released by activation of either P or Q-type Ca2+ -channels, exist. In contrast, in the primate there is much overlap between the glutamate released by P and Q-type Ca2+ -channel activation. Studies using combinations of enadoline and the Ca2+ -channel antagonists suggest that enadoline-induced inhibition of glutamate release occurs primarily via reduction of Ca2+ -influx through P-type Ca2+ -channels in the rat but via N-type Ca2+ -channels in the marmoset. In conclusion, the results presented suggest that there are species differences in the control of glutamate release by kappa-opioid receptors and Ca2+ -channels.

Previous neuroimaging and neuropsychological studies have investigated the neural substrates which mediate responses to fearful, disgusted and happy expressions. No previous studies have investigated the neural substrates which mediate responses to sad and angry expressions. Using functional neuroimaging, we tested two hypotheses. First, we tested whether the amygdala has a neural response to sad and/or angry facial expressions. Secondly, we tested whether the orbitofrontal cortex has a specific neural response to angry facial expressions. Volunteer subjects were scanned, using PET, while they performed a sex discrimination task involving static grey-scale images of faces expressing varying degrees of sadness and anger. We found that increasing intensity of sad facial expression was associated with enhanced activity in the left amygdala and right temporal pole. In addition, we found that increasing intensity of angry facial expression was associated with enhanced activity in the orbitofrontal and anterior cingulate cortex. We found no support for the suggestion that angry expressions generate a signal in the amygdala. The results provide evidence for dissociable, but interlocking, systems for the processing of distinct categories of negative facial expression.
Three experiments investigated the extent to which semantic and working-memory deficits contribute to Alzheimer patients' impairments in producing and comprehending referring expressions. In Experiment 1, the spontaneous speech of 11 patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) contained a greater ratio of pronouns to full noun phrases than did the spontaneous speech produced by 9 healthy controls. Experiments 2 and 3 used a cross-modal naming methodology to compare reference comprehension in another group of 10 patients and 10 age-matched controls. In Experiment 2, patients were less sensitive than healthy controls to the grammatical information necessary for processing pronouns. In Experiment 3, patients were better able to remember referent information in short paragraphs when reference was maintained with full noun phrases rather than pronouns, but healthy controls showed the reverse pattern. Performance in all three experiments was linked to working memory performance but not to word finding difficulty. We discuss these findings in terms of a theory of reference processing, the Informational Load Hypothesis, which views referential impairments in AD as the consequence of normal discourse processing in the context of a working memory impairment.
Orphanin FQ has been shown to possess anti-opioid activity at supraspinal level. Our previous work revealed that chronic morphine tolerance could be reversed by intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection of OFQ IgG to rats. In this study, we used radioimmunoassay (RIA) to assess the changes of Orphanin FQ immunoreactivity (OFQ-ir) in cerebroventricular perfusate, periaqueductal gray (PAG) and amygdala of rats made tolerance to morphine (10-60 mg/kg, s.c., t.i.d., for 5 days). The results indicated that: (1) In rats administrated with morphine for 3 and 5 days, the content of OFQ-ir in cerebroventricular perfusate increased by 25% and 52% over the NS control group. (2) The content of OFQ-ir in PAG of rats receiving 1d, 3d and 5d injections of morphine showed an increase of 17%, 48% and 81% respectively over NS group. (3) The content of OFQ-ir in amygdala of rats given 3d and 5d of morphine showed a 36% and 55% increase compared with corresponding control group. It is suggested that continuous use of high doses of morphine accelerated the release and biosynthesis of OFQ in rat brain to antagonize the effect of opioids, which may play a role in the development of morphine tolerance, and that brain OFQ may serve as a delayed negative feedback control on opioid analgesia.
The respiratory role of glutamate receptors was investigated in the isolated lamprey brain preparation by analyzing the changes in respiratory activity induced by bath application of specific antagonists of ionotropic and metabotropic glutamate receptors. The results show that these antagonists differentially affect the pattern of breathing and provide the first evidence that both ionotropic and metabotropic glutamate receptors are involved in neurotransmission within the lamprey respiratory network.
Stress-related release of norepinephrine (NE) in the brain and periphery probably underlies several neuroendocrine and neurocirculatory responses. NE might influence its own synthesis, release, and turnover, by negative feedback regulation via alpha2-adrenoceptors. We examined central and peripheral noradrenergic function by measuring concentrations of NE, dihydroxyphenylglycol (DHPG), and dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) in hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN) microdialysate and arterial plasma simultaneously during immobilization (IMMO) in conscious rats. The alpha2-adrenoceptor antagonist yohimbine (YOH) was injected i.p. or perfused locally into the PVN via the microdialysis probe. The i.p. YOH increased plasma NE, epinephrine (EPI), DHPG, dihydroxyphenylalanine, and DOPAC levels by 4.3, 7.3, 2.5, 0.6 and 1.8-fold and PVN microdialysate NE, DHPG, and DOPAC by 1. 2, 0.6 and 0.5-fold. The i.p. YOH also enhanced effects of IMMO on plasma and microdialysate NE, DHPG, and DOPAC. YOH delivered via the PVN microdialysis probe did not affect microdialysate or plasma levels of the analytes at baseline and only slightly augmented microdialysate NE responses to IMMO. The results indicate that alpha2-adrenoceptors tonically restrain NE synthesis, release, and turnover in sympathetic nerves and limit IMMO-induced peripheral noradrenergic activation. In the PVN, alpha2-adrenoceptors do not appear to contribute to these processes tonically and exert relatively little restraint on IMMO-induced local noradrenergic activation.
A stereotaxic atlas of the pig brain has been established. It consists of 60 frontal and 18 sagittal drawings illustrating Nissl stained sections. A stereotaxic apparatus adapted for the Pig was used to determine the brain coordinates. Radiographic techniques were applied to verify the correct position of the central nervous structures in the apparatus. The zero horizontal plane contains the line joining the recessus preopticus and the posterior commissure (PC) images. These two landmarks were identified by ventriculography. The anterior limit of the PC is used as zero on the stereotaxic atlas. Vertical electrode trajectories implanted at a fixed depth in the brain and at different anterior and lateral levels were used to determine the lateral, vertical and height coordinates in the different planes. Then the brains were perfused and embedded to avoid major displacement of the cerebral structures. Frontal and sagittal serial sections of 100 microns were performed in two different animals. Magnified diagrams of brain sections representing the cellular architecture of the brain structures were produced, some of which are illustrated with photomicrographs. For certain areas, the limits of the nuclei were difficult to determine even when complementary electrophysiological studies were carried out. Each plate is accompanied by a list of abbreviations used to label structures on the plate, together with the terms which they represent. This work should provide a useful anatomical guide for research on the pig brain.
Previous research has demonstrated that adult autistic patients are abnormally slow to orient attention, with degree of slowed orienting associated with severity of cerebellar hypoplasia. This research was extended to children who, at ages two through six, met diagnostic criteria for autism and underwent magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). An average of 3 years later, when old enough to participate in behavioral experiments, the children returned to the laboratory and completed a spatial attention paradigm. Degree of slowed attentional orienting to visual cues was significantly correlated with degree of cerebellar hypoplasia, but not with size of other neuroanatomic regions. Additionally, there was a trend for orienting speed to differ between diagnostic outcome subgroups; children with confirmed diagnoses of autism at time of behavioral testing had larger orienting deficits than those who no longer met diagnostic criteria for autism. This research is among the first to establish a specific brain-behavior link in autistic children.

It is commonly thought that the horrific medical abuses occurring during the era of the Third Reich were limited to fringe physicians acting in extreme locales such as the concentration camps. However, it is becoming increasingly apparent that there was a widespread perversion of medical practice and science that extended to mainstream academic physicians. Scientific thought, specifically the theories of racial hygiene, and the political conditions of a totalitarian dictatorship, acted symbiotically to devalue the intrinsic worth to society of those individuals with mental and physical disabilities. This devaluation served to foster the medical abuses which occurred. Neurosciences in the Third Reich serves as a backdrop to highlight what was the slippery slope of medical practice during that era. Points on this slippery slope included the &quot;dejudification&quot; of medicine, unethical experimentation in university clinics, systematic attempts to sterilize and euthanasize targeted populations, the academic use of specimens obtained through such programs and the experimental atrocities within the camps.

P19 embryonal carcinoma (EC) cells undergo apoptosis during neuronal differentiation induced by all-trans retinoic acid (RA). Caspase-3-like proteases are activated and involved in the apoptosis of P19 EC cells during neuronal differentiation.1 Recently it has been shown that growth factor signals protect against apoptosis by phosphorylation of Bad. Phosphorylated Bad, an apoptotic member of the Bcl-2 family, cannot bind to Bcl-xL and results in Bcl-xL homodimer formation and subsequent antiapoptotic activity. In the present study, we demonstrate that this system is used generally to protect against apoptosis during neuronal differentiation. Bcl-xL inhibited the activation of caspase-3-like proteases. Basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) inhibited more than 90% of the caspase-3-like activity, inhibited processing of caspase-3 into its active form, and inhibited DNA fragmentation. bFGF activated phosphatidyl-inositol-3-kinase (PI3K) and stimulated the phosphorylation of Bad. Phosphorylation was inhibited by wortmannin, an inhibitor of PI3K and its downstream target Akt. Thus, Bad is a target of the FGF receptor-mediated signals involved in the protection against activation of caspase-3.
We report the case of a man presenting with a brain-stem stroke from which he recovered fully, who developed right-sided weakness and numbness on walking despite no demonstrable postural fall in arterial blood pressure. Angiography revealed an occluded left vertebral artery, a tight stenosis at the origin of the right vertebral artery and non-patent left posterior communicating artery. Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty to the right vertebral stenosis results in a good angiographic result, and remission of symptoms which has persisted for 1 year. Identification of such patients with vertebrobasilar positional haemodynamic symptoms due to a focal stenosis is important as angioplasty offers an effective therapeutic option.
