Magnocellular neurosecretory cells (MNCs) in the hypothalamo-neurohypophysial system that express and secrete the nonapeptides oxytocin (OT) and vasopressin (VP) were evaluated for the expression of multiple genes in single magnocellular neurons from the rat supraoptic nucleus using a single cell RT-PCR protocol. We found that all cells representing the two major phenotypes, the OT and VP MNCs, express a small, but significant, amount of the other nonapeptide's messenger RNA (mRNA). In situ hybridization histochemical analyses confirmed this observation. A third phenotype, containing equivalent amounts of OT and VP mRNA, was detected in about 19% of the MNCs from lactating female supraoptic nuclei. Analyses of these phenotypes for other coexisting peptide mRNAs (e.g. CRH, cholecystokinin, galanin, dynorphin, and the calcium-binding protein, calbindin) generally confirmed expectations from the literature, but revealed cell to cell variation in their coexpression. Our results also show that the high voltage-activated calcium channel subunit genes, alpha1A-D, alpha2, and beta1-4 are expressed in virtually all MNCs. However, the alpha1E subunit gene is not expressed at detectable levels in these cells. The expression of all of the beta-subunit genes in each MNC may account for the variations in physiological and pharmacological properties of the high voltage-activated channels found in these neurons. (Endocrinology 140: 5391-5401, 1999)

Exocytosis - syntaxin - synaptobrevin - SNARE synaptic vesicle The lamprey giant reticulospinal synapse can be used to manipulate the molecular machinery of synaptic vesicle exocytosis by presynaptic microinjection. Here we test the effect of disrupting the function of the SNARE protein SNAP-25. Polyclonal SNAP-25 antibodies were shown in an in vitro assay to inhibit the binding between syntaxin and SNAP-25. When microinjected presynaptically, these antibodies produced a potent inhibition of the synaptic response. Ba2+ spikes recorded in the presynaptic axon were not altered, indicating that the effect was not due to a reduced presynaptic Ca2+ entry. Electron microscopic analysis showed that synaptic vesicle clusters had a similar organization in synapses of antibody-injected axons as in control axons, and the number of synaptic vesicles in apparent contact with the presynaptic plasma membrane was also similar. Clathrin-coated pits, which normally occur at the plasma membrane around stimulated synapses, were not detected after injection of SNAP-25 antibodies, consistent with a blockade of vesicle cycling. Thus, SNAP-25 antibodies, which disrupt the interaction with syntaxin, inhibit neurotransmitter release without affecting the number of synaptic vesicles at the plasma membrane. These results provide further support to the view that the formation of SNARE complexes is critical for membrane fusion, but not for the targeting of synaptic vesicles to the presynaptic membrane.

We have previously shown that the higher homologue of (S)-glutamic acid [(S)-Glu], (S)-alpha-aminoadipic acid [(S)-alpha-AA] is selectively recognized by the mGlu(2) and mGlu(6) subtypes of the family of metabotropic glutamic acid (mGlu) receptors. Furthermore, a number of analogues of (S)-alpha-AA, in which the terminal carboxyl group has been replaced by various bioisosteric groups, such as phosphonic acid or 3-isoxazolol groups, have been shown to interact selectively with different subtypes of mGlu receptors. In this paper we report the synthesis of the 3-pyrazolone bioisosteres of alpha-AA, compounds (RS)-2-amino-4-(1,2-dihydro-5-methyl-3-oxo-3H-pyrazol-4-yl)butyric acid (1) and (RS)-2-amino-4-(1,2-dihydro-1,5-dimethyl-3-oxo-3H-pyrazol-4-yl)butyric acid (2). At a number of steps in the reaction sequences used, the reactions took unexpected courses and provided products which could not be transformed into the target compounds, and attempts to synthesize the 2,5-dimethyl isomer of 2, compound 3, failed. An X-ray crystallographic analysis of the intermediate 1,2-dihydro-4-(2-hydroxyethyl)-2,5-dimethyl-3H-pyrazol-3-one (5b) confirmed the expected regioselectivity of the reaction between methylhydrazine and alpha-acetylbutyrolactone (4). Neither 1 nor 2 showed significant effects at the different types of ionotropic glutamic acid receptors or at mGlu(1a) (group I), mGlu(2) (group II), and mGlu(4a) and mGlu(6) (group III) receptors, representing the three indicated groups of mGlu receptors.
The aim of this study was to investigate the influence of hazardous alcohol drinking on the occurrence of epileptic seizures, the semiology of such seizures, and the extent of the problem. A consecutive sample of 142 acute seizure patients (78 male and 64 female, mean age 46 (16-79) years) was studied. Control groups were 185 consecutive sciatica patients and 254 healthy individuals. Subjects with a hazardous alcohol drinking level were identified by a score &gt;8 in the Alcohol Use Disorders Identification Test (AUDIT). Seizures in AUDIT-positive individuals occurring within 72 h of the last drink were considered to be related to alcohol withdrawal. Generalized or partial onset seizures were classified on the basis of history, electroencephalographic (EEG) and neuroradiological findings. Thirty-five percent of seizure patients were AUDIT-positive, whereas conversely 27% were abstainers. Two-thirds of AUDIT-positive seizure patients met the criteria for withdrawal seizures. Indications of partial onset seizures were found in 25 (51%) of AUDIT-positive patients, all secondarily generalized seizures. Sixty percent of generalized onset seizure patients were AUDIT-positive. In conclusion, seizure patients included significantly more AUDIT-positive subjects, as well as abstainers, than healthy Norwegian controls and consecutive sciatica patients from our hospital. Partial onset seizures are more frequent among hazardous drinkers than hitherto recognized. A generalized onset seizure in adults warrants a high suspicion of alcohol as a provoking factor. Routine screening of acute seizure admissions with the Alcohol Use Disorders Identification Test is recommended.
Impairments in executive functions have been related to aging and frontal lobe lesions. Aging also causes slowing of mental processing. We examined whether ischemic stroke in the frontal brain area results in dysexecutive syndrome, or whether the frontal stroke causes increased slowing of mental processing. Neurological, radiological and neuropsychological examinations were carried out 3 months post-stroke on 250 ischemic stroke patients (55-85 years) and on 39 healthy control subjects. Of the patients, 62 had frontal and 188 had nonfrontal lesions. The neuropsychological examination comprised several cognitive domains, including tests considered to measure executive functions. The frontal group was slower than the nonfrontal group in tasks measuring speed of mental processing which were time-limited (Trail Making A, Stroop dots and fluency). They were also inferior in the Digit Span backwards task. There were no differences between the groups in other cognitive domains, nor in some tests which are considered to be measures of executive functions (e.g. WCST). Impairments in executive functions were evident in both the frontal and the nonfrontal groups compared with the controls, but no dysexecutive syndrome specifically related to frontal lesions was found. Frontal stroke related mainly to the slowing of mental processing.
Neuropsychological clinical decision-making is complicated by the fact that variability in test performance increases with advancing age. This research explores the presence of homogeneous subgroups in 120 neurologically healthy individuals, from 55 to 85 years of age. Subjects at risk for dementing diseases were diagnosed as Aging-Associated Cognitive Decline (AACD) and Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI). Cluster analysis was applied on 11 neuropsychological variables assessing logical memory immediate recall and retention percentage, visual memory immediate recall and retention, conceptual thinking, naming, verbal fluency, constructional functions, motor speed, flexibility and finger tapping. Five clusters were extracted, one representing cognitively successfully aged, and two consisting of individuals with normal or average level of performance. One cluster was characterized by older subjects with difficulties in visual memory, visuoconstructional functions, and speed and attention, most of the younger subjects in the same cluster had a diagnosis of AACD or MCI. The fifth cluster represented individuals at risk for dementing diseases; most of them were diagnosed having AACD and more than half had a diagnosis of MCI. Age, activity and intellectual levels, and to a lesser degree education, were significantly related to the cluster solution. The present findings caution against treating samples of elderly individuals as homogeneous.
Recent studies have shown that hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) promotes the survival of embryonic motor neurons. However, it remains unclear whether HGF has trophic effects on mature motor neurons. In the present study, we examined the effects of HGF on adult motoneurons using the hypoglossal nerve transection model. In adult rats, neurons in the hypoglossal nucleus show a dramatic loss of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) protein and mRNA after the axotomy. This reduction of ChAT was markedly prevented when HGF was administered continuously at the cut end of the nerve using an osmotic pump. The HGF receptor, c-met, protein and mRNA, which were faintly expressed in hypoglossal neurons under normal conditions, gradually increased and reached maximal levels 2 weeks after the axotomy. Administration of HGF reduced this c-met upregulation almost to normal levels. We also quantified HGF mRNA in the tongue and hypoglossal nucleus. The tongue contained abundant HGF mRNA, whereas the nucleus contained only low levels. Interestingly, the HGF mRNA level in the nucleus did not increase after the axotomy. These findings suggest that HGF is principally produced in the tongue and contributes to maintain ChAT expression in the nucleus. HGF produced in the hypoglossal nucleus alone after disconnection from the tongue may not be sufficient for the maintenance of the motor neuron function. Thus, exogenously applied HGF was effective to prevent the downregulation of ChAT activities. These findings provide a strong rationale for the potential clinical use of HGF for the treatment of motor neuron degenerative disease.
The possibility of a direct projection from the perirhinal cortex (PER) to areas CA1 and subiculum (SUB) in the hippocampus has been suggested on the basis of tracer studies, but this projection has not unequivocally been supported by physiological studies. The demonstration of such a functional pathway might be important to understand the functioning of the hippocampal memory system. Here we present physiological and further anatomical evidence for such a connection between PER and the hippocampus. Electrical stimulation of PER in vivo evoked field potentials (EFPs) at the border area of CA1/SUB, consisting of a short latency and a longer latency component. Current source density analysis revealed that the sink of the short latency component was situated in the molecular layer of area CA1/SUB, while the longer latency component had its sink in the outer molecular layer of the dentate gyrus (DG). Anterograde tracer injections in PER showed labelled fibres in the border area of CA1/SUB, but anatomical evidence for a projection of PER to DG was not found. When synaptic transmission in the entorhinal cortex was partly blocked, the amplitude of the longer latency component of the recorded EFPs in the hippocampus was decreased while the short latency component was not affected, which suggests that the indirect pathway originating in PER is mediated through a synaptic relay in the entorhinal cortex. From the present results we conclude that information originating in PER reaches area CA1/SUB by parallel, direct and indirect, routes. The existence of this parallel organization appears to form an essential feature for the proper function of the medial temporal lobe memory system.
We studied the contribution of GABAergic (gamma-aminobutyric acid) neurotransmission to epileptiform activity using the horizontal hippocampal rat brain slice. Seizure-like (ictal) activity was evoked in the CA1 area by applying high-frequency trains (80 Hz for 2 s) to the Schaffer collaterals. Whole-cell recordings from stratum oriens-alveus interneurons revealed burst firing with superimposed high-frequency spiking which was synchronous with field events and pyramidal cell firing during ictal activity. On the other hand, interictal interneuronal bursts were synchronous with large-amplitude inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs) in pyramidal cells. Excitatory and inhibitory postsynaptic potentials were simultaneously received by pyramidal neurons during the ictal afterdischarge, and were synchronous with interneuronal bursting and field potential ictal events. The GABAA receptor antagonist bicuculline greatly reduced the duration of the ictal activity in the CA1 layer, and evoked rhythmic interictal synchronous bursting of interneurons and pyramidal cells. With intact GABAergic transmission, interictal field potential events were synchronous with large amplitude IPSPs (9.8 +/- 2.4 mV) in CA1 pyramidal cells, and with interneuronal bursting. Simultaneous dual recordings revealed synchronous IPSPs received by widely separated pyramidal neurons during ictal and interictal periods, indicative of widespread interneuronal firing synchrony throughout the hippocampus. CA3 pyramidal neurons fired in synchrony with interictal field potential events recorded in the CA1 layer, and glutamate receptor antagonists abolished interictal interneuronal firing and synchronous large amplitude IPSPs received by CA1 pyramidal cells. These observations provide evidence that the interneuronal network may be entrained in hyperexcitable states by GABAergic and glutamatergic mechanisms.
Illusory contours provide a striking example of the visual system's ability to extract a meaningful representation of the surroundings from fragmented visual stimuli. Psychophysical and neurophysiological data suggest that illusory contours are processed in early visual cortical areas, and neuroimaging studies in humans have shown that Kanizsa-type illusory contours activate early retinotopic visual areas that are also activated by real contours. It is not known whether other types of illusory contours are processed by the same mechanisms, nor is it clear to what extent attentional effects may have influenced these results, as no attempt was made to match the salience of real and illusory stimuli in previous imaging studies. It therefore remains an open question whether there are any brain regions specifically involved in the perception of illusory contours. To address these questions, we have used 15O-butanol positron emission tomography (PET) and a novel kind of illusory contour stimulus that is induced only by aligned line ends. By employing a form discrimination task that was matched for attention and stimulus salience across conditions we were able to directly contrast perception of real and illusory contours. We found that the regions activated by illusory contour perception were the same as those activated by real contours. Only one region, located in the right fusiform gyrus, was significantly more strongly activated by perception of illusory contours than by real contours. In addition, a principal component analysis suggested that illusory contour perception is associated with a change in the correlation between V1 and V2. We conclude that different kinds of illusory contours are processed by the same cortical regions and that these regions overlap extensively with those involved in processing of real contours. At the regional level, perception of illusory contours thus appears to differ from perception of real contours by the degree of involvement of higher visual areas as well as by the nature of interaction between early visual areas.
The present study investigated the role of nicotinic receptors in the lateral septum in the modulation of anxiety. The effects of direct injections of nicotine into the lateral septum were first investigated in two tests of anxiety, social interaction and elevated plus-maze tests. Intra-septal injection of nicotine (1 and 4 microgram) induced consistent anxiogenic effects in both tests. The reversal of nicotinic effects with mecamylamine was then studied in the social interaction test. Intra-septal injection of mecamylamine at a low dose (15 ng) induced an anxiolytic effect, suggesting the presence of intrinsic cholinergic tone increasing anxiety. At higher doses (30-50 ng), mecamylamine was without effect in the social interaction test, but blocked the anxiogenic effects of nicotine (4 microgram). These findings provide further evidence for the role of the lateral septum in the modulation of anxiety and suggest that cholinergic projections to this brain area facilitate anxiety through nicotinic receptors.
Previous experiments using a classical fear conditioning paradigm have provided evidence that the processing of contextual conditional stimuli (CSs) by the hippocampus would be controlled by the amygdala through a modulation of hippocampal-lateral septal (H-LS) excitability. More specifically, our suggestion was that vasopressin release into the LS would occur in an elemental conditioning case [pairing CS-US (unconditional stimulus) procedure] and would result in less hippocampal-dependent contextual stimuli processing (i.e. overshadowing of CSs by the simple CS). Conversely, when an unpairing CS-US procedure is used, this would result in more contextual stimuli processing through a decrease in vasopressin release into the LS. The aim of the present experiment was to test this hypothesis using intraseptal injection of vasopressin or its V1/V2 antagonist. In agreement with this hypothesis, results suggest that vasopressin release into the LS would constitute a device by which priority is given to the more salient simple stimulus to the detriment of contextual information.
The regeneration capacity of spinal cord axons is severely limited. Recently, much attention has focused on promoting regeneration of descending spinal cord pathways, but little is known about the regenerative capacity of ascending axons. Here we have assessed the ability of neurotrophic factors to promote regeneration of sensory neurons whose central axons ascend in the dorsal columns. The dorsal columns of adult rats were crushed and either brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) or a vehicle solution was delivered continuously to the lesion site for 4 weeks. Transganglionic labelling with cholera toxin beta subunit (CTB) was used to selectively label large myelinated Abeta fibres. In lesioned rats treated with vehicle, CTB-labelled fibres were observed ascending in the gracile fasciculus, but these stopped abruptly at the lesion site, with no evidence of sprouting or growth into lesioned tissue. No CTB-labelled terminals were observed in the gracile nucleus, indicating that the lesion successfully severed all ascending dorsal column axons. Treatment with BDNF did not promote axonal regeneration. In GDNF-treated rats fibres grew around cavities in caudal degenerated tissue but did not approach the lesion epicentre. NT-3, in contrast, had a striking effect on promoting growth of lesioned dorsal column axons with an abundance of fibre sprouting apparent at the lesion site, and many fibres extending into and beyond the lesion epicentre. Quantification of fibre growth confirmed that only in NT-3-treated rats did fibres grow into the crush site and beyond. No evidence of terminal staining in the gracile nucleus was apparent following any treatment. Thus, although NT-3 promotes extensive growth of lesioned axons, other factors may be required for complete regeneration of these long ascending projections back to the dorsal column nuclei. The intrathecal delivery of NT-3 or other neurotrophic molecules has obvious advantages in clinical applications, as we show for the first time that dorsal column axonal regeneration can be achieved without the use of graft implantation or nerve lesions.
Recent evidence shows that neuropeptide expression in the CNS is markedly affected by seizure activity, particularly in the limbic system. Changes in neuropeptides in specific neuronal populations depend on the type and intensity of seizures and on their chronic sequelae (i.e. neurodegeneration and spontaneous convulsions). This paper reviews the effects of seizures on somatostatin-containing neurons, somatostatin mRNA and immunoreactivity, the release of this peptide and its receptor subtypes in the CNS. Differences between kindling and status epilepticus in rats are emphasized and discussed in the light of an inhibitory role of somatostatin on hippocampal excitability. Pharmacological studies show that somatostatin affects electrophysiological properties of neurons, modulates classical neurotransmission and has anticonvulsant properties in experimental models of seizures. This peptidergic system may be an interesting target for pharmacological attempts to control pathological hyperactivity in neurons, thus providing new directions for the development of novel anticonvulsant treatments.
Z-(R)-1-Azabicyclo[2.2.2]oct-3-yl (R)-alpha-hydroxy-alpha-(1-iodo-1-propen-3-yl)-alpha-phenylacetate (Z-IQNP) has high affinity to the M(1 )and M(2) muscarinic acetylcholine receptor (mAChR) subtypes according to previous in vitro and in vivo studies in rats. In the present study iodine-123 labelled Z-IQNP was prepared for in vivo single-photon emission tomography (SPET) studies in cynomolgus monkeys. SPET studies with Z-[(123)I]IQNP demonstrated high accumulation in monkey brain (&gt;5% of injected dose at 70 min p.i.) and marked accumulation in brain regions such as the thalamus, the neocortex, the striatum and the cerebellum. Pretreatment with the non-selective mAChR antagonist scopolamine (0.2 mg/kg) inhibited Z-[(123)I]IQNP binding in all these regions. The percentage of unchanged Z-[(123)I]IQNP measured in plasma was less than 10% at 10 min after injection, which may be due to rapid hydrolysis, as has been demonstrated previously with the E-isomer of IQNP. Z-[(123)I]IQNP showed higher uptake in M(2)-rich regions, compared with previously obtained results with E-[(123)I]IQNP. In conclusion, the radioactivity distribution from Z-[(123)I]IQNP in monkey brain indicates that Z-[(123)I]IQNP binds to the M(1)- and M(2)-rich areas and provides a high signal for specific binding, and is thus a potential ligand for mAChR imaging with SPET.
The need for support and participation in treatment of relatives to voluntarily and compulsorily admitted patients was addressed in a study of the quality of mental health services in two Swedish county councils. The aims of the study were to investigate differences in the above aspects between subgroups of relatives, the differences between two years of investigation, 1986 and 1991, and the differences between relatives of voluntarily and compulsorily admitted patients. The relatives investigated consisted of 79 spouses, 118 parents and 31 grown-up children. The results showed that there were only minor differences between the subgroups concerning their participation in care. Grown-up children experienced significantly less need of support and received less help for this need. In 1991, relatives participated more in the care situation, were more interested in support with regard to their own life situation, and also showed more positive attitudes towards the psychiatric services than in 1986. The relatives of the voluntarily admitted patients felt more involved in the patient's treatment, whereas the relatives of those compulsorily admitted felt less involved and perceived obstacles to admission.
We have studied the occurrence of dual diagnoses (psychoses as well as abuse of either amphetamine, cannabis or opiates) during a 15-year period, among patients treated at Huddinge Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden. The purpose of the study is to evaluate if the different drugs were coupled to different rates of psychiatric co-morbidity. During the period in question, 461, 425 and 371 different patients respectively had been admitted at least once due to dependency on amphetamine, cannabis and opiates. Approximately 30% of the patients with a pure abuse of amphetamine or cannabis and less than 6% of the opiate abusers had been diagnosed at least once with any of the psychoses studied. Comparing the frequency of psychoses among mixed and pure abusers of illegal drugs, with and without a concomitant abuse of alcohol, we found that the co-morbidity rate for mixed opiate abusers increased significantly from 7.2 to 20.2% when alcohol abuse was also present. For abusers of amphetamine and cannabis (both pure and mixed), no differences in co-morbidity rates were seen when an abuse of alcohol was added to that of the drugs. It is difficult to find an explanation for the significant difference between the co-morbidity of pure abuse of amphetamine or cannabis on the one hand and opiates on the other. In conclusion, our findings show that the distribution of psychotic illness is high among abusers of amphetamine and cannabis, in contrast to the generally lower co-morbidity among abusers of opiates. Although these findings are consistent with earlier studies that have shown a propensity for developing psychoses among abusers of amphetamine and cannabis, one should bear in mind that this study is based on inpatients, and is not necessarily representative for all abusers of the drugs in question.
The second-order relay neurons of the slowly-adapting pulmonary stretch receptors (SARs) are called pump neurons (P cells) and are located in the nucleus tractus solitarii (NTS). We have shown recently that P cells do not act merely as simple relay neurons of SAR afferents but also receive rhythmic inputs from the central respiratory system. This study aimed to analyze two aspects of the respiratory inputs to P cells: (1) suppression of P cell firing at early inspiration (eI suppression) and (2) facilitation of P cell firing at around the period from late inspiration to early expiration (IE facilitation). This study employed extracellular recordings combined with iontophoretic applications of neuroactive drugs to single P cells, in Nembutal-anesthetized, paralyzed, and artificially ventilated rats. The results showed that several excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmitters were involved in these synaptic events. First, the glycine antagonist strychnine and the GABA(A) antagonist bicuculline were applied to identify the neurotransmitters acting in eI suppression. Strychnine greatly diminished eI suppression, but bicuculline had little effect. This suggested that eI suppression was elicited by inspiratory neurons that were glycinergic and had a decrementing firing pattern. Second, on the other hand bicuculline markedly enhanced IE facilitation as well as the baseline frequency of P cell firing. The enhancement of IE facilitation was distinctive even when the effects of increased baseline firing on this enhancement were taken into account. Third, IE facilitation was diminished by applications of the NMDA glutamate receptor antagonists D-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (APV) and dizocilpine (MK-801). These results suggested that glutamatergic synapses on P cells from some unidentified respiratory neurons form excitatory inputs for IE facilitation and GABA(A) receptor-mediated processes control the strength of IE facilitation, possibly at the presynaptic level. Finally, iontophoretic application of the non-NMDA glutamate receptor antagonist, 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2, 3-dione disodium (CNQX), almost completely abolished P cell firing in response to both lung inflation and electrical stimulation of the vagus nerve. This confirmed the previous report that glutamate is the primary neurotransmitter at the synapses between SAR afferents and P cells. We concluded that complicated synaptic inputs involving glycinergic and GABAergic inhibitions, and non-NMDA and NMDA glutamate receptor-mediated excitations form the basic pattern of P cell firing.
Effects of inhibitory neurotransmitters on the locomotor rhythm and pattern generation were investigated using an in vitro preparation isolated from the mudpuppy (Necturus maculatus). The preparation consisted of the first five segments of the spinal cord and the right forelimb attached by the brachial nerves. During N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA)-induced locomotion, the rhythmic motor output (EMG) was recorded unilaterally from elbow flexor and extensor muscles. While neither glycine nor gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-related substances induced locomotion in the absence of NMDA, they modulated NMDA-induced locomotion. Bath application of glycine and GABA suppressed the rhythmic motor pattern induced by NMDA. Addition of glycine receptor antagonist strychnine or GABA(A) receptor antagonist bicuculline disrupted the phase relationship between antagonistic motor pools during ongoing locomotion, thereby changing the normal alternating pattern into synchronous EMG bursts. Both the GABA(A) receptor agonist muscimol and GABA(B) receptor agonist baclofen mimicked the effects of GABA as they either slowed down or stopped locomotion. Nipecotic acid, a GABA uptake blocker, had a similar effect. This suggested that an endogenous release of GABA modulated the locomotor rhythm. The endogenous release was antagonized by the GABA(A) and GABA(B) receptor antagonists bicuculline and CGP-35348, respectively. Immunocytochemistry revealed that glycine and GABA-positive neurons and fibers were present in mudpuppy spinal cord. Although the GABAergic neurons were more numerous than glycinergic neurons, both cell types contributed processes directed towards the white matter and occasionally towards the ependymal lining of the central canal. Our results suggest that inhibitory neurotransmitters exert powerful actions upon the neuronal network governing forelimb locomotion in the mudpuppy. The effects we observed may be mediated by a network of segmentally distributed glycinergic and GABAergic spinal neurons.
Eight patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD) were compared with a group of age-matched controls on both reflexive saccade and antisaccade tasks. While reflexive, visually guided saccades led to equivalent performance in both groups, PD patients were slower, made more errors, and showed reduced gain on antisaccades (AS). This is consistent with previous results showing that PD patients have no difficulty with reflexive saccades but show deficiencies in a number of voluntary saccade paradigms. Moreover, visual information in the form of landmarks improves AS performance more for PD patients than controls, a finding analogous to results seen with other motor acts such as target-directed pointing. Results are discussed in terms of a two-process model of attention and eye movements.
The effects of cocaine use and withdrawal on mood and sleep were examined. Three cocaine-dependent men lived in an inpatient facility for approximately 4 weeks, which included an initial abstinence phase (8-10 days), a cocaine administration phase (5 days), and a 2nd abstinence phase (14-16 days). During the 2nd phase, cocaine was administered intranasally a few hours before bedtime. During the day, mood and daytime sleepiness were measured, and sleep was monitored each night. Cocaine produced typical changes in mood and blood pressure, and sleep was severely disrupted. Following Phase 2, there were no changes in mood that was indicative of an abstinence syndrome, although, initially, daytime sleepiness increased. After 2 weeks, sleep architecture remained different from age-matched controls. This study is the first to measure changes in sleep architecture polysomnographically following a period of controlled cocaine use.
Complement activation products C1q, C4c/d, and C3c/d in amyloid plaques in Alzheimer's disease probably result from direct binding and activation of C1 by amyloid beta peptides. RT-PCR and in situ hybridization studies have shown that several complement factors are produced in the brain parenchyma. In the present study, cytokines that can be detected in amyloid plaques (i.e., interleukin (IL)-1, IL-6, and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha) were found to differentially stimulate the expression of C1 subcomponents, C1-Inhibitor (C1-Inh), C4, and C3, by astrocyte and microglial cell cultures derived from postmortem adult, human brain specimens and by neuroblastoma cell lines in culture. C1r and C1s were secreted at low levels by astrocytes and neuroblastoma cell lines. Exposure of cells to IL-1 alpha, IL-1 beta, TNF-alpha and to a far lesser extent IL-6, markedly upregulated C1r, C1s, and C3 production. C4 synthesis increased in response to interferon (IFN)-gamma and IL-6, whereas that of C1-Inh could be stimulated only by IFN-gamma. Thus, C1-Inh production is refractory to stimulation by plaque-associated cytokines, whereas these cytokines do stimulate C1r, C1s, and also C4 and C3 secretion by astrocytes and neuronal cells in culture. In contrast to the amyloid plaque associated cytokines IL-1 beta, IL-1 alpha, and TNF-alpha, the amyloid peptide A beta 1-42 itself did not stimulate C1r and C1s synthesis by astrocytes, microglial cells, or neuroblastoma cell lines. Microglial cells were the only cell type that constitutively expressed C1q. The ability of C1q to reassociate with newly formed C1r and C1s upon activation of C1 and subsequent inactivation by C1-Inh, may enable ongoing complement activation at sites of amyloid deposition, especially when C1-Inh is consumed and not replaced.
Tottering (tg) mice inherit a recessive mutation of the calcium channel alpha 1A subunit gene, which encodes the pore-forming protein of P/Q-type voltage-sensitive calcium channels and is predominantly expressed in cerebellar granule and Purkinje neurons. The phenotypic consequences of the tottering mutation include ataxia, polyspike discharges, and an intermittent motor dysfunction best described as paroxysmal dystonia. These dystonic episodes induce c-fos mRNA expression in the cerebellar circuitry, including cerebellar granule and Purkinje neurons, deep cerebellar nuclei, and the postsynaptic targets of the deep nuclei. Cellular abnormalities associated with the mutation include hyperarborization of brainstem nucleus locus ceruleus axons and abnormal expression of L-type calcium channels in cerebellar Purkinje cells. Here, the role of these two distinct neural pathways in the expression of tottering mouse intermittent dystonia was assessed. Lesion of locus ceruleus axons with the neurotoxin N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-ethyl-2-bromobenzyl-amine (DSP-4) did not affect the frequency of tottering mouse dystonic episodes. In contrast, removal of cerebellar Purkinje cells with the Purkinje cell degeneration (pcd) mutation by generation of tg/tg; pcd/pcd double mutant mice completely eliminated tottering mouse dystonia. Further, the c-fos expression pattern of tg/tg; pcd/pcd double mutants following restraint was indistinguishable from that of wild-type mice, suggesting that the pcd lesion eliminated an essential link in this abnormal neural network. These data suggest that the cerebellar cortex, where the mutant gene is abundantly expressed, contributes to the expression of tottering mouse dystonic episodes.
Axons of the CNS do normally not regenerate after injury, in contrast to axons of the PNS. This is due to a different microenvironment at the site of the lesion as well as a particular intrinsic program of axonal regrowth. Although transplantation of peripheral nerve tissue bridges is perhaps the most successful approach to promoting regeneration in the CNS, ingrowth of CNS nerve fibers with such transplants is limited. Genetic modification of peripheral nerve bridges to overexpress outgrowth-promoting proteins should, in principle, improve the permissive properties of peripheral nerve transplants. The present study shows that pieces of peripheral intercostal nerve, subjected to ex vivo adenoviral vector-mediated gene transfer and implanted as nerve bridges in transected sciatic nerve, avulsed ventral root, hemi-sected spinal cord and intact brain, are capable of expressing a foreign gene. In vitro studies showed expression of the reporter gene LacZ up to 30 days in Schwann cells. After implantation, LacZ expression could be detected at 7 days postimplantation, but had virtually disappeared at 14 days. Schwann cells of the transduced nerve bridges retained the capacity of guiding regenerative peripheral and central nerve fiber ingrowth. Transduction of intercostal nerve pieces prior to implantation should, in principle, enable enhanced local production of neurotrophic factors within the transplant and has the potential to improve the regeneration of injured axons into the graft.
Previous work has demonstrated that viral vector mediated gene transfer of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), when administered prior to a striatal injection of the specific neurotoxin, 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA), can protect nigral dopamine (DA) neurons from cell death. When considering gene therapy for Parkinson's disease (PD), vector delivery prior to the onset of neuropathology is not possible and chronic delivery will likely be necessary in a GDNF-based PD therapy. The present study was undertaken to determine if GDNF delivered via a recombinant adeno-associated viral vector (rAAV) could affect nigral DA cell survival when initiated just after the administration of striatal 6-OHDA. The onset of rAAV-mediated GDNF transgene expression near the substantia nigra was determined to begin somewhere between 1 and 7 days after the 6-OHDA injection and subsequent vector administration. The cell survival data indicate that rAAV-GDNF delivery results in a highly significant sparing of nigral DA neurons. These data indicate that a single delivery of rAAV encoding GDNF is efficacious when delivered after the onset of progressive degeneration in a rat model of PD.
Immunocytochemical techniques were employed to study the distribution and cytological features of NMDAR1-immunoreactive elements in the human hippocampal formation. Subjects with Alzheimer's disease (AD), presenting with a wide range of neuropathology and classified into six Braak stage (I-VI), and nondemented age-matched controls were examined. In control cases, the most intense NMDAR1 immunoreactivity was observed within the soma and dendrites of granule cells in the dentate gyrus and pyramidal neurons in Ammon's horn. Whereas small variations in the pattern of immunoreactivity were noted in control cases, AD subjects were characterized with intersubject variability which in most instances correlated with neuropathologic severity. For example, AD cases, particularly those with mild/modest pathology (Braak I-III), were indistinguishable from controls in the overall pattern of immunolabeling. In contrast, in those more severe AD cases (Braak IV-VI) the intensity of immunolabeling within the CA fields was greater than observed in controls and those with mild AD pathology. In addition, in pathologically severe cases numerous NMDAR1-positive pyramidal neurons were characterized by unique morphologic features including long and often tortuous apical dendrites. These latter findings were most prevalent in the CA1 region and subiculum. In contrast to the marked increase in immunolabeling in the CA fields, in the dentate gyrus we observed a reduction in NMDAR1 labeling particularly within the outer molecular layer (i.e., termination zone of the perforant pathway). This latter region was also the site of a number of NMDAR1-labeled plaques. Notably, the overall pattern of NMDAR1 immunoreactivity is distinct from that observed with antibodies against AMPA receptor subunits and suggests a differential role of various inotropic glutamate receptors in hippocampal plasticity in AD.
Extrinsic factors appear to contribute to the lack of regeneration in the injured adult spinal cord. It is likely that these extrinsic factors include a group of putative growth inhibitory molecules known as chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CSPGs). The aims of this study were to determine: (1) the consequences of spinal cord contusion injury on CSPG expression, (2) if CSPGs can be degraded in vivo by exogenous enzyme application, and (3) the effects of intraspinal transplantation on the expression of CSPGs. Chondroitin 6-sulfate proteoglycan immunoreactivity (CSPG-IR) dramatically increased following spinal cord contusion injury both at and adjacent to the injury site compared to normal controls (no surgical procedure) and laminectomy-only controls by 4 days postinjury. The dramatic increase in CSPG-IR persisted around the lesion and in the dorsal one-half to two-thirds of the spinal cord for at least 40 days postinjury. Glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-IR patterns were similarly intensified and spatially restricted as CSPG-IR patterns. These results suggest that: (1) CSPGs may contribute to the lack of regeneration following spinal cord injury and (2) astrocytes may contribute to the production of CSPGs. In addition, our results show that CSPGs could be cleaved in vivo with exogenous chondroitinase ABC application. This demonstration of cleavage may the basis for a model to directly assess CSPGs' role in growth inhibition in vivo (studies in progress) and hold potential as a therapeutic approach to enhance growth. Interestingly, the robust, injury-induced CSPG-IR patterns were not altered by intraspinal grafts of fetal spinal cord. The CSPG expression profile in the host spinal cord was similar to time-matched contusion-only animals. This was also true of GFAP-IR patterns. Furthermore, the fetal spinal cord tissue, which was generally CSPG negative at the time of transplantation, developed robust CSPG expression by 30 days posttransplantation. This increase in CSPG expression in the graft was paired with a moderate increase in GFAP-IR. CSPG-IR patterns suggest that these molecules may contribute to the limited regeneration seen following intraspinal transplantation. In addition, it suggests that the growth permissiveness of the graft may change overtime as CSPG expression develops within the graft. These correlations in the injured and transplanted spinal cord support CSPGs' putative growth inhibitory effect in the adult spinal cord.
The production of specific extracellular matrix molecules is upregulated following injury to the adult CNS, and some of these molecules have been postulated to inhibit axonal regeneration. In particular, the deposition of collagen in conjunction with basal lamina formation has been correlated with the failure of CNS axons to extend beyond sites of injury. In the present experiment, the spatial and temporal distribution of fibrillar collagen type III and the main constituents of basal lamina (collagen type IV and laminin) were characterized after defined lesions of the adult spinal cord at cervical and thoracic levels. The deposition of collagen was then blocked in animals undergoing defined mid-thoracic spinal cord lesions by administration of the iron chelator 2,2'-bipyridine, and subsequent effects on corticospinal axonal growth were examined. At time points from 1 to 6 weeks postinjury, collagen and laminin were deposited at spinal cord lesion sites as a dense matrix at the host-lesion interface that extended for short distances into the surrounding spinal cord parenchyma. The failure of corticospinal axons to grow beyond the lesioned region correlated spatially and temporally with collagen III formation and basal lamina production. However, successful blockade of collagen and basal lamina formation with 2,2'-bipyridine injections failed to enhance corticospinal axon regeneration or sprouting. These results suggest either that collagen and basal lamina formation after CNS injury do not contribute to corticospinal axonal growth failure or, more likely, that molecules in addition to collagen and basal lamina contribute to axonal growth failure and must be collectively blocked to promote corticospinal regeneration.
Synchronisation of motor unit discharges is commonly seen in hand muscles of normal man but is absent following neurologically complete spinal cord injury and reduced after stroke. These findings support the notion that some corticospinal inputs to motoneurones are shared and contribute to the observed synchrony of discharge. In this study we have examined motor unit discharge in hand muscles below the level of an incomplete spinal cord injury in an attempt to relate strength of synchrony to the integrity of the corticospinal tract. Eight patients with incomplete spinal cord injury (neurological level C3-C7) and eight control subjects took part in the study. The patients had sustained injury 14-191 weeks prior to the recordings and had since regained good motor function in their hands. Two concentric needle electrodes were inserted into the first dorsal interosseus muscle which subjects were instructed to contract weakly so that potentials from individual motor units could be reliably identified on both recordings. Synchrony was detected by constructing cross-correlograms between the discharges of pairs of individual motor units. The amount of synchronous firing was determined from the magnitude of any peak in the cross-correlogram, as the probability above chance (XP) of one motor unit firing with respect to the other and vice versa. The degree of synchrony was lower (P &lt; 0.05) in the patient group (mean XP 0.06) than in the control group (mean XP 0.09). The incidence of significant synchrony was lower in the patient group (41.8 %) than in the control group (92.9 %). The mean (+/- S.E.M.) frequency of motor unit discharge was slightly lower (P &lt; 0.05) in patients (9.7 +/- 0.4 impulses s-1) than controls (10.8 +/- 0.5 impulses s-1). The mean width of synchrony peaks was narrower (P &lt; 0.05) in patients (11.4 +/- 1.1 ms) than controls (13.2 +/- 0.6 ms). We conclude that the weaker synchrony of motor unit discharge in incomplete spinal cord injury may reflect permanent damage to some corticospinal axons.
Few approved drugs have, as their primary known mechanism of action, modulation of non-ligand gated ion channels. However, these proteins are important regulators of neuronal function through their control of sodium, potassium, calcium and chloride flux, and are ideal candidates as drug discovery targets. Recent progress in the molecular biology and pharmacology of ion channels suggests that many will be associated with specific pharmacological profiles that will include both activators and inhibitors. Ion channels, through their regulation by G-proteins, are a major component of the final common pathway of many drugs acting at classical neuronal receptors. Thus, targeting of the ion channels themselves may confer different profiles of efficacy and specificity to drug action in the brain and spinal cord. Three areas for drug discovery are profiled that the authors consider prime targets for ion channel based therapies, anticonvulsant drugs, cognition enhancing drugs and drugs for improving neurone survival following ischaemia.
Improvements in modern commercial aquaculture are linked to the utilization of biotechnological methods and processes. The most visible approach has been the use of growth hormone (GH) and/or insulin-like growth factor I and II (IGF-I and II), to accelerate the growth of fish. Previously we have reported that the injection of bovine GH, (bGH) in striped bass hybrids increased the specific growth rate and food conversion efficiency without significant alteration of food consumption rate. In this paper we present the results of experiments in which growth, food consumption, conversion efficiency, ammonia excretion, and amino acid absorption were monitored for individual fish after bGH injection. The specific growth rate was stimulated by 50% without significant change in relative food consumption rate. Food conversion efficiency increased by 51%. Intestinal L-leucine absorption was increased by 25-40% at various concentrations tested. The relative N-retention was stimulated by 20% when computed raw. When a correction factor derived from the elevated amino acid absorption was introduced into the computations. the calculated relative N-retention was increased by 56%. Muscle amino acid profile was appreciably altered. We conclude GH supplementation or over-expression in aquaculture profoundly alters the physiological and nutritional conditions of fish. Nutritional profiles of fish food must be altered relative to these physiological changes in order to maximize growth.

The developing mammalian cochlea is especially sensitive to chemical toxins. In rats, the period of increased sensitivity falls roughly between postnatal days (P) 8 and 28. One unexplored hypothesis for this 'sensitive period' is that young cochleas may have immature complements of detoxification enzymes. Glutathione-S-transferases (GSTs) are a family of detoxification enzymes which catalyze the conjugation of many xenobiotics to glutathione. Using high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), we measured the concentrations of soluble GST isoforms in cochleas of developing Fischer 344 rats. At P1, the concentration of isoform rGSTP1 was 9 pmol/mg protein. That of the remaining isoforms studied was low, &lt;2 pmol/mg protein, and, except for rGSTA3, remained so throughout the period of study. At P2, immunolabelling visualized rGSTP1 in the stria vascularis, Reissner's membrane, spiral limbus and organ of Corti. From P1 to P28, rGSTP1 increased to 15 pmol/mg protein and was detected additionally in satellite cells of the spiral ganglion and in the spiral ligament. From P7 to P28, rGSTA3 increased 8-fold (3-24 pmol/mg protein), became the predominant isoform in the adult organ and localized to pillar cells, the limbus and the spiral ligament. In the vestibule, rGSTP1 predominated, although rGSTA3 increased slightly over time. These observations suggest that biochemical immaturity in detoxification enzymes in the cochlea may contribute to the increased sensitivity to ototoxins during development and that differences in detoxification enzymes between cells in the cochlea and between inner ear organs may underlie differences in susceptibility to ototoxins.
The aim of this study is to examine the effect of phosphorylation pathways on the electrically evoked fast motile response of isolated outer hair cells (OHCs). Transcellular electrical stimulation was applied in the microchamber to guinea pig OHCs and motility was measured before and after drug application. Forskolin (adenylate cyclase activator), phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA, protein kinase C activator) and dibutyryl 3',5'-cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP agonist) were studied. As controls, L15 medium and dimethyl-sulfoxide (DMSO) were used. In each group, 12 cells were measured. Forskolin and PMA were dissolved in 0.1% DMSO to render them membrane permeable. DMSO by itself caused a statistically significant electromotility magnitude decrease. Forskolin and PMA could not reverse the motility decrease due to DMSO, the effects seen in their presence were the same as observed with DMSO alone. Thus, neither 3',5'-cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase nor calcium/phospholipid-dependent protein kinase appear to have modulatory effects on electromotility. Dibutyryl cGMP (DBcGMP), in concentrations of 200 microM, elicited a significant electromotility magnitude increase. The DBcGMP effect could be inhibited by co-application of 200 microM DBcGMP and 100 microM 8-Rp-pCPT-cGMPS (8-4-chlorophenylthio-guanosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphothioate, Rp isomer, a cGMP antagonist). Our results suggest that OHC electromotility is modulated by a cGMP-dependent pathway.
At present, the principal treatments for pain are non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and opioids, but both of these classes suffer from drawbacks in clinical use. Some of the NSAIDs are associated with gastric damage as well as kidney and liver toxicity, and an increase in blood clotting time, while the opioids can produce tolerance and dependence, along with constipation, nausea, respiratory depression and sedation. In certain cases, both NSAID and opioid use are ineffective. There are some other less commonly used treatments including local anesthetics, anticonvulsants and tricyclic antidepressants, but, many recent strategies have involved the search for other NSAIDs and opioids which lack the unwanted side-effects present in both classes of drug. More recently, in addition to the classical strategies, some novel approaches have started to produce compounds which have entered the clinic, including cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitors and modulators of the alpha2delta subunit of L-type calcium channels.
Cognitive performance in an epileptic child has been a difficult issue to predict in day-to-day clinical practice. Several observations made in early and later part of this century do not provide uniform and convincing answer to this issue. Recent trends in research however, have identified certain variables that are shown to be associated with cognitive decline in epileptic children. Together with associated behavioural problems, the resultant school difficulty is the essence of this concern for the parents. The variables related to cognitive deterioration as identified by several studies include underlying brain pathology (symptomatic epilepsy), early age of onset of seizure, severity and intractability of seizure, repeated head trauma, an episode of status epilepticus, presence of interictal subclinical EEG discharge, adverse psychosocial factor and antiepileptic drug (AED). Association of these variables in a given case cannot only predict adverse cognition outcome but also a preventive management package can be planned aiming at avoiding or minimizing these high risk variables.
One-day disposable contact lenses are experiencing rapid market growth in certain markets, such as the United Kingdom. Because of the huge numbers of lenses required to satisfy this modality of wear, both practitioners and patients need to be reassured about the quality of these products. Analysis of the accuracy and reproducibility of each of three currently available 1-day disposable lenses was conducted with respect to the following lens parameters: total diameter, back optic zone radius, center thickness, water content, and back vertex power. Fourteen of the 15 parameters measured (three lenses x five parameters per lens) were found to fall within ISO-defined tolerances. Reproducibility was similar for the three lens types and was considered clinically acceptable. Practitioners and patients can be confident that the current generation of 1-day disposable lenses can be relied on to give consistent ocular and visual performance.
Alternative RNA splicing can be regulated in a highly cell- and tissue-specific or developmentally specific manner. In neurons, the functions of many gene products, such as those of trk genes are regulated by alternative splicing. In this paper the mechanism of neural-specific RNA splicing is investigated using trk genes as models. First, we confirm the splicing patterns of trk transcripts during neural differentiation of P19 embryonal carcinoma (EC) cells. The full-length form of trk B was expressed in the neuronal state. In contrast, both the full-length and truncated forms of trk C were expressed constitutively in all differentiation states. However, two alternatively spliced forms with either 42- or 117-nucleotide insertions in the tyrosine kinase domain were detected only in the neuronal state. Thus, the expression of functional trk B and C was found to be regulated by alternative splicing during neural differentiation. To examine the molecular basis of neural-specific splicing, and how splicing regulation is modulated in different neurons. The expression of a number of general splicing factors was studied. The mRNA levels of the splicing factors ASF/SF2, U2AF SF3a, p54nrb and PTB was found to decrease rapidly during differentiation. In contrast, Nova, an RNA-binding protein was expressed in the neuronal state. We also found that the levels of two SR proteins, members of a family of splicing factors, increased in the neuronal state. These results suggest that the stoichiometric balance among some splicing factors, including SR proteins, may be associated with the alternative splicing of trk transcripts during differentiation.
The percentages of alpha activity per minute over the left and right temporal lobes were measured for the first and second successive 15-min intervals while subjects wore opaque goggles within an acoustic chamber. A weak (5 microT), burst-firing magnetic field was presented during this period for 1 s every 4 s primarily over the left or the right cerebral hemisphere. The results indicated that the left temporal lobe became less vigilant between the first and second 15 min while the right temporal lobe did not. When standardized scores for each subject's measures over time and across hemispheres were employed, increased alpha time over the left temporal lobe relative to the right temporal lobe was observed only when the transcerebral magnetic field was applied over the left hemisphere. Stimulation of the right hemisphere did not evoke this discrepancy. The detection of the effects of this specific complex magnetic field upon electroencephalographic activity may be more probable when the subjects are exposed to partial sensory deprivation.

Variations in the loop response of hearing aids caused by jaw movements, variations in acoustics outside the ear, and variations of vent size have been identified. Behind The Ear (BTE) and In The Ear Canal (ITEC) hearing aids were considered. The largest variations among the variations of the acoustics outside the ear, except when the hearing aid was partly removed, were found with the ITEC when a telephone set was placed by the ear. The variations of the loop response caused by changes in vent size were compared with the variations of a theoretical model of the feedback path. The theoretical model was also used to compare the feedback of different designs of the vent that gives the same acoustic impedance at low frequencies. The calculated feedback was less with the short vents (12 mm) than the long vents (24 mm).
The presence of mutations around the A beta sequence in APP provides strong argument for the involvement of APP, and A beta in particular, in pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). In vitro studies demonstrated that A beta may cause neuronal death, supporting the hypothetical involvement of A beta in neurodegeneration in AD. However, concentrations of A beta required for neuronal death are nonphysiologically high. Nevertheless, the predominant idea in the field is that it is sufficient to postulate A beta as a major culprit in AD development. The question we pose is whether the potentially important involvement of A beta precludes the etiological (primary) involvement (not pathological, i.e., secondary) of APP functions. We do not have an adequate answer to this question. Current knowledge about APP functions indicates that APP is critically required for the maintenance of neuronal and synaptic structure and function. Because AD is a disease of neuronal and synaptic deterioration, APP may be involved during the course of AD pathogenesis, perhaps secondarily. To ponder the question whether APP may be etiologically involved in AD, much needs to be learned about APP functions. This article is intended to provide a foundation for this challenging task.
The vomeronasal organ (VNO) is a chemoreceptive structure that has not been extensively studied in the Xenarthran order. Tissue samples from the VNO of the armadillo Chaetophractus villosus were prepared for light and electron microscopy. The VNO is located in the anterior part of the base of the nasal septum. It is tubular in shape, approximately 18 mm in length and opens in the rostral region of the nasal cavity and with a blind caudal end. Its lumen is lined by sensory (SE) and nonsensory (NSE) epithelium. The SE shows sensory, supporting and basal cells whereas the NSE contains ciliated and nonciliated secretory cells and basal cells. At the ultrastructural level, the sensory cells appear as bipolar neurons with conspicuous microvilli on their free surface. The supporting cells of the SE contain numerous membrane-bound vesicles in their apical regions. A peculiar feature not found in other mammals, is the presence of concentric whorls of RER cisterns frequently observed in their basal expansions. Infiltrating plasma cells can be detected in the SE basal region close to the dorsal junctional area. This region also exhibits an unusual type of basal cell, probably responsible for the generation of new vomeronasal receptor neurons. The ciliated NSE cells exhibit numerous ovoids or irregularly shaped membranous protrusions projecting from the plasma membrane of the cilia. As far as we know, this is the first study reporting the presence of this feature in ciliated NSE cells. The nonciliated cells are characterised by scarce large secretory granules and apical microvilli. The vomeronasal glands are compound-branched tubuloacinar glands with serous acinar cells. Four types of secretory granules are present. The ducts of these glands reach the lumen in the dorsolateral region between the NSE and SE. Hypolemmal nerve terminals were observed contacting secretory cells. Fenestrated and nonfenestrated capillaries constitute the vascular supply to these glands. Plasma cells, intimately associated with acinar cells, were frequently observed.
Peripherin, a type III intermediate filament (IF) protein, upregulated by injury and inflammatory cytokines, is a component of IF inclusion bodies associated with degenerating motor neurons in sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). We report here that sustained overexpression of wild-type peripherin in mice provokes massive and selective degeneration of motor axons during aging. Remarkably, the onset of peripherin-mediated disease was precipitated by a deficiency of neurofilament light (NF-L) protein, a phenomenon associated with sporadic ALS. In NF-L null mice, the overexpression of peripherin led to early- onset formation of IF inclusions and to the selective death of spinal motor neurons at 6 mo of age. We also report the formation of similar peripherin inclusions in presymptomatic transgenic mice expressing a mutant form of superoxide dismutase linked to ALS. Taken together, these results suggest that IF inclusions containing peripherin may play a contributory role in motor neuron disease.
The levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) vary between different forebrain areas and show region-specific changes after cerebral ischemia. The present study explores the possibility that the levels of endogenous BDNF determine the susceptibility to ischemic neuronal death. To block BDNF activity the authors used the TrkB-Fc fusion protein, which was infused intraventricularly in rats during 1 week before and 1 week after 5 or 30 minutes of global forebrain ischemia. Ischemic damage was quantified in the striatum and hippocampal formation after 1 week of reperfusion using immunocytochemistry and stereological procedures. After the 30-minute insult, there was a significantly lower number of surviving CA4 pyramidal neurons, neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive dentate hilar neurons, and choline acetyltransferase- and TrkA-positive, cholinergic striatal interneurons in the TrkB-Fc-infused rats as compared to controls. In contrast, the TrkB-Fc treatment did not influence survival of CA1 or CA3 pyramidal neurons or striatal projection neurons. Also, after the mild ischemic insult (5 minutes), neuronal death in the CA1 region was similar in the TrkB-Fc-treated and control groups. These results indicate that endogenous BDNF can protect certain neuronal populations against ischemic damage. It is conceivable, though, that efficient neuroprotection after brain insults is dependent not only on this factor but on the concerted action of a large number of neurotrophic molecules.
Cholecystokinin-8-like-immunoreactive (CCK-8-LI) fibers in laminae VII and X of the rat lumbosacral spinal cord demarcate the position of preganglionic autonomic neurons. This investigation reveals that adult male Sprague-Dawley, or King-Holtzman/Sprague-Dawley rats contain more CCK-8-LI fibers in lumbosacral laminae VII and X than adult females. Furthermore, testicular feminization mutation male rats (which lack 85-90% of their functional androgen receptors) contain fewer CCK-8-LI fibers than normal male or female rats, with the amount of CCK-8-LI being reduced to a greater extent in the sympathetic vs. the parasympathetic regions of the lumbosacral spinal cord. Thus, CCK-8-LI in testicular feminization mutation male rats has a distinctly female-like pattern. These results suggest that testosterone is a regulatory factor for CCK-8-LI fibers found in laminae VII and X of the lumbosacral spinal cord. Sexual dimorphism in lumbosacral CCK-8-LI fibers may contribute to modulating the final common pathway which differentially regulates the reproductive organs and stereotypic reproductive behavior, and may be involved with the sex differences described for pain.
We studied the anatomical distribution of dopaminergic structures in the normal, aged, human olfactory bulb and olfactory peduncle with a monoclonal antibody against tyrosine hydroxylase. Three different tyrosine hydroxylase containing cell groups are present in the olfactory bulbs: (1) a group of round, medium-sized cells within and around the glomeruli; (2) cells in the external plexiform layer; and (3) cells that are scattered in the stratum album. Occasionally, a few labeled neurons can be observed in the granule cell layer. In the olfactory peduncle a few labeled cells are present in the superficial layers just underneath the pia. Tyrosine hydroxylase containing terminal-like structures are present in the glomerular layer and the external plexiform layer. In a few cases dense terminal labeling is also observed in the cell groups that constitute the anterior olfactory nucleus. In the olfactory peduncle scattered labeled fibers are present. In addition, the present study makes clear that quantitative differences exist between the individual cases for which no explanation could be found.


We report the case of a 60-year-old man who presented with a mononeuritis multiplex-type illness, beginning cranially and then sequentially involving peripheral nerves in all four limbs and torso. Despite extensive investigation, including multiple lumbar punctures and tissue biopsies, the diagnosis was not made until his death 10 months after presentation. Post mortem revealed lymphocytic infiltration of multiple peripheral nerves and radicules with minimal central nervous system involvement, consistent with neurolymphomatosis. Except for the pericardium, there was no other evidence of systemic lymphoma. Recent similar case reports highlight the value of magnetic resonance imaging of plexi and peripheral nerves, which may increase the chance of an antemortem diagnosis in this typically elusive disorder.
Anterior cervical fusion is a commonly performed procedure and the most common graft material used is anterior iliac crest autograft. However, this donor site is a source of significant patient discomfort. The author describes the use of tricortical manubrial autograft which provides a surgically convenient donor site with less morbidity than with traditional iliac crest.
One of the most important advances in molecular neurobiology of relevance to the practicing psychiatrist is how an intracellular second messenger can &quot;turn on&quot; genes by activating first a protein kinase enzyme and then a transcription factor. Failure to turn on the right genes may lead to psychiatric illnesses. Causing the appropriate genes to turn on may be the therapeutic mechanism of action of many current and future psychotropic drugs.
A woman (LR), unconscious for 20 years, spontaneously produces infrequent, isolated words unrelated to any environmental context. Fluorodeoxy-glucose-positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) imaging coregistered with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed a mean brain metabolism equivalent to deep anesthesia. Nevertheless, PET imaging demonstrated islands of modestly higher metabolism that included Broca's and Wernicke's areas. Functional brain imaging with magnetoencephalographic (MEG) imaging, a technique providing a temporal resolution of better than 1 msec, identified preserved dynamic patterns of spontaneous and evoked brain activity in response to sensory stimulation. Specifically, we examined spontaneous gamma-band activity (near 40 Hz) and its reset or modification during early auditory processing, a measure that correlated with human perception of sensory stimuli (Joliot, Ribary, &amp; Llins, 1994). Evidence of abnormal and incomplete gamma-band responses appeared in the left hemisphere only in response to auditory or somatosensory stimulation. MEG single-dipole reconstructions localized to the auditory cortex in the left hemisphere and overlapped with metabolically active regions identified by FDG-PET. The observation demonstrates that isolated neuronal groups may express well-defined fragments of activity in a severely damaged, unconscious brain. The motor fixed-action pattern character of her expressed words supports the notion of brain modularity in word generation.
Dendrites of reconstructed hippocampal neurons were analyzed for morphometric, topologic, and fractal parameters (n = 32 quantities) to investigate neuronal groupings and growth characteristics with a common set of assumptions. The structures studied included CA1 and CA3 pyramidal cells, interneurons, and granule cells from young animals (71 cells in total). Most of the cells showed no characteristic fractal dimension; rather, the scaling relation could be well represented by a two-parameter fit, of which one parameter showed a significant difference between cell classes. Other significant quantities that differentiated cell classes were related to the complexity of the dendritic tree (number of branch points and maximal terminal branch order) and the cell's electrical properties such as the mean attenuation between the soma and terminals. Principal components analysis produced combined measures of only slightly greater discriminative power than the best individual measures, indicating that the elementary quantities capture most of the structural variation between hippocampal cell groups. Another finding was that for all cells the mean segment length increased with dendritic branch order, which is consistent with decreasing branching probability as a function of the path distance from the soma. Analysis of another set of CA1 pyramidal neurons from aged animals (n = 15; 22-24 months) showed only a few significant differences than those from young animals (n = 11; a subset of n = 71) of which the most important was a straightening of the paths between terminals and the soma. The quantities analyzed in these reconstructed hippocampal neurons may reflect both intrinsic neuronal characteristics and extrinsic influences. Hippocampal cell groupings (i.e., pyramidal cells as opposed to dentate granule cells and interneurons) were significantly differentiated by most parameters. These differences and parameter values may be critical for understanding and generating synthetic neuronal populations for modelling studies.
Visceral function is essential for survival. Discreet regions of the human brain controlling visceral function have been postulated from animal studies (Cechetto and Saper [1987] J. Comp. Neurol. 262:27-45) and suspected from lethal cardiac arrythmias (Cechetto [1994] Integr. Physiol. Behv. Sci. 29:362-373). However, these visceral sites remain uncharted in the normal human brain. We used 4-Tesla functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to identify changes in activity in discrete regions of the human brain previously identified in animal studies to be involved in visceral control. Five male subjects underwent heart rate (HR) and/or blood pressure (BP) altering tests: maximal inspiration (MX), Valsalva's maneuver (VM), and isometric handgrip (HG). Increased neuronal activity was observed during MX, VM, and HG, localized in the insular cortex, in the posterior regions of the thalamus, and in the medial prefrontal cortex. To differentiate special visceral (taste) regions from general visceral (HR, BP) regions in these areas, response to gustatory stimulation was also examined; subjects were administered saline (SAL) and sucrose (SUC) solutions as gustatory stimuli. Gustatory stimulation increased activity in the ventral insular cortex at a more inferior level than the cardiopulmonary stimuli. The observed neural activation is the first demonstration of human brain activity in response to visceral stimulation as measured by fMRI.
Schwann cells contribute to efficient axonal regeneration after peripheral nerve injury and, when grafted to the central nervous system (CNS), also support a modest degree of central axonal regeneration. This study examined (1) whether Schwann cells grafted to the CNS exhibit normal patterns of differentiation and association with spinal axons and what signals putatively modulate these interactions, and (2) whether Schwann cells overexpressing neurotrophic factors enhance axonal regeneration. Thus, primary Schwann cells were transduced to hypersecrete human nerve growth factor (NGF) and were grafted to spinal cord injury sites in adult rats. Comparisons were made to nontransfected Schwann cells. From 3 days to 6 months later, grafted Schwann cells exhibited a phenotypic and temporal course of differentiation that matched patterns normally observed after peripheral nerve injury. Schwann cells spontaneously aligned into regular spatial arrays within the cord, appropriately remyelinated coerulospinal axons that regenerated into grafts, and appropriately ensheathed but did not myelinate sensory axons extending into grafts. Coordinate expression of the cell adhesion molecule L1 on Schwann cells and axons correlated with establishment of appropriate patterns of axon-Schwann cell ensheathment. Transduction of Schwann cells to overexpress NGF robustly increased axonal growth but did not otherwise alter the nature of interactions with growing axons. These findings suggest that signals expressed on Schwann cells that modulate peripheral axonal regeneration and myelination are also recognized in the CNS and that the modification of Schwann cells to overexpress growth factors significantly augments their capacity to support extensive axonal growth in models of CNS injury.
Two sets of wide-field neurons extend neurites into the fly's optic lamina, where monopolar cells receive photoreceptor input. They exhibit immunoreactivity to antibodies raised against either 5-hydroxytryptamine or the crustacean peptide PDH, respectively. Both are proposed whole-field neuromodulators of vision, apparently regulating a circadian rhythm of monopolar cell size. Seeking functional correlates, we have re-examined the electroretinogram for circadian rhythmicity, and for responses to locally injected 5-hydroxytryptamine and peptide. Long-term electroretinogram recordings from Calliphora entrained to a light/dark cycle and then transferred to constant darkness, uncovered a gradual, modest increase during the subjective night in the electroretinogram's ON- and OFF-transients, from the lamina's monopolar cells. Five to twenty nl of 5-hydroxytryptamine (10(-3) mol.1(-1)) injected into the head haemolymph strongly enhanced the electroretinogram transients, an action reversed by 5-hydroxytryptamine antagonists. Injected into the eye, 5-hydroxytryptamine (10(-4) mol.1(-1)) had the opposite effect; the rapid onset there suggests direct action, whilst the opposing effect from haemolymph injection suggests a different receptor site. Pigment-dispersing hormone (2.2 x 10(-5) mol.1(-1)) injected into the haemolymph increased the electroretinogram transients along a biphasic course, with a slow partial recovery; injected into the eye, it lacked effect.
We have modeled biologically realistic neural networks that may be involved in contextual modulation of stimulus responses, as reported in the neurophysiological experiments of Motter (1994a, 1994b) (Journal of Neuroscience, 14:2179-2189 and 2190-2199). The networks of our model are structured hierarchically with feedforward, feedback, and lateral connections, totaling several thousand cells and about 300,000 synapses. The contextual modulation, arising from attention cues, is explicitly modeled as a feedback signal coming from the highest-order cortical network. The feedback signal arises from mutually inhibitory neurons with different stimulus preferences. Although our model is probably the simplest one consistent with available anatomical and physiological evidence and ignores the complexities that may exist in high-level cortical networks such as the prefrontal cortex, it reproduces the experimental results quite well and offers some guidance for future experiments. We also report the unexpected observation of 40 Hz oscillations in the model.
It has been known for several decades that the formation of long-term memory requires gene expression. In recent years, the use of genetic and molecular approaches has led to the identification and characterization of genes and molecules that play a fundamental role in the biological mechanisms underlying learning and memory. From these studies, it appears that molecules and molecular mechanisms essential for the process of memory have been conserved throughout evolution. The cyclic AMP (cAMP)-dependent activation pathway and a cAMP-dependent cascade of gene expression have been shown to be essential for memory formation in Aplysia californica, Drosophila melanogaster and rodents. Moreover, members of the transcription factor family cAMP response element binding proteins (CREBs) seem to represent key molecules for transforming incoming information into long-term memory. Here, we review the studies showing that conserved molecules and biological mechanisms are engaged in simple and complex forms of memory.
The ability to generate words from phonemic (i.e., words beginning with 'F,' 'A,' and 'S') and semantic (i.e., animals, fruits, and vegetables) categories was assessed longitudinally in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD; N = 59) and normal controls (NC; N = 59). Patients with AD performed worse than NC participants on both tasks at each of 4 annual evaluations and exhibited greater impairment relative to controls on the semantic-category task than on the phonemic-category task. In addition, the performance of the patients with AD declined over time on both tasks, but the rate of decline was faster on the semantic-category than on the phonemic-category task. Examination of individual responses across the annual evaluations revealed that patients with AD were more consistent than NC participants in failing to generate previously produced semantic-category, but not phonemic-category, items in all years following the 1st year in which the item was not produced. These results are consistent with the notion that patients with AD suffer a gradual deterioration of the organization and content of semantic memory as the disease progresses.
An intrastriatal injection of NMDA produced an increase in glutathione to 152% of control values in mitochondria isolated from striatum at 1 h later. Total tissue glutathione was not changed. The mitochondrial increase was largely reversed by 2 h. Glutathione content was not significantly affected in mitochondria from a part of the cerebral cortex that did not exhibit damage following intrastriatal NMDA. Glutathione was similarly increased in mitochondria from both cortex and striatum at 1 h after a short period of forebrain ischemia, confirming our previous findings. The increases in mitochondrial glutathione developed shortly after accumulations of mitochondrial calcium that have been observed previously. Intravenous injection of cyclosporin A immediately following either the NMDA treatment or reversal of the ischemic period partially inhibited the increases in glutathione in mitochondria from the affected brain subregions. These studies provide evidence that early changes sensitive to cyclosporin A develop in mitochondria under pathological conditions in the intact brain. These glutathione increases are consistent with an induction of the mitochondrial permeability transition in the affected tissue.
Activation of protein kinase C (PKC) is one of the biochemical pathways thought to be activated during activity-dependent synaptic plasticity in the brain, and long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD) are two of the most extensively studied models of synaptic plasticity. Here we have examined changes in the in situ phosphorylation level of two major PKC substrates, myristoylated alanine-rich C kinase substrate (MARCKS) and growth-associated protein (GAP)-43/B-50, after pharmacological stimulation or induction of LTP or LTD in the CA1 field of the hippocampus. We find that direct PKC activation with phorbol esters, K+-induced depolarization, and activation of metabotropic glutamate receptors increase the in situ phosphorylation of both MARCKS and GAP-43/B-50. The induction of LTP increased the in situ phosphorylation of both MARCKS and GAP-43/B-50 at 10 min following high-frequency stimulation, but only GAP-43/B-50 phosphorylation remained elevated 60 min after LTP induction. Furthermore, blockade of LTP induction with the NMDA receptor antagonist D-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid prevented elevations in GAP-43/B-50 phosphorylation but did not prevent the elevation in MARCKS phosphorylation 10 min following LTP induction. The induction of LTD resulted in a reduction in GAP-43/B-50 phosphorylation but did not affect MARCKS phosphorylation. Together these findings show that activity-dependent synaptic plasticity elicits PKC-mediated phosphorylation of substrate proteins in a highly selective and coordinated manner and demonstrate the compartmentalization of PKC-substrate interactions. Key Words: Protein kinase C-Myristoylated alanine-rich C kinase substrate-Growth-associated protein-43-Long-term potentiation-Long-term depression-(RS)-alpha-Methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine-D-2-Amino-5-ph osphonopentanoic acid-Glutamate.
Immunohistochemical studies have shown that oligodendroglial inclusions in multiple system atrophy contain alpha-synuclein, a synaptic protein also found in Lewy bodies in Parkinson's disease. We have now used density gradient enrichment and an anti-alpha-synuclein immunomagnetic technique to isolate pure and morphologically intact oligodendroglial inclusions from brain white matter of patients dying with multiple system atrophy. Filamentous inclusion structures were obtained only from multiple system atrophy tissue, but not from normal brain tissues, or from multiple system atrophy tissue processed without anti-alpha-synuclein antibody. We confirmed the purity and morphology of isolated inclusions by electron microscopy. The inclusions comprised multiple protein bands after separation by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Immunoblotting demonstrated that these proteins included alpha-synuclein, alphaB-crystallin, tubulins, ubiquitin, and prominent, possibly truncated alpha-synuclein species as high-molecular-weight aggregates. Our study provides the first biochemical evidence that oligodendroglial inclusion filaments consist of multiple protein components, suggesting that these inclusions may form as a result of multiprotein interactions with alpha-synuclein.
Emerging data indicate that growth factors such as insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) prevent neuronal death due to nitric oxide (NO) toxicity. On the other hand, growth factors can promote cell survival by acting on phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3-kinase) and its downstream target, serine-threonine kinase Akt, in various types of cells. Here, we examined the mechanism by which IGF-1 inhibits neuronal apoptosis induced by NO in primary hippocampal neurons. IGF-1 was capable of preventing apoptosis and caspase-3-like activation induced by a NO donor, sodium nitroprusside or 3-morpholin-osydnonimine. Incubation of neurons with a P13-kinase inhibitor, wortmannin or LY294002, blocked the effects of IGF-1 on NO-induced neurotoxicity and caspase-3-like activation. In addition, the P13-kinase inhibitors blocked the effect of IGF-1 on down-regulation in Bcl-2 and upregulation in Bax expression induced by NO. Adenovirus-mediated overexpression of the activated form of Akt significantly inhibited NO-induced cell death, caspase-3-like activation, and changes in Bcl-2 and Bax expression. Moreover, expression of the kinase-defective form of Akt almost completely blocked the effects of IGF-1. These findings suggest that activation of Akt is necessary and sufficient for the effect of IGF-1 and is capable of preventing NO-induced apoptosis by modulating the NO-induced changes in Bcl-2 and Bax expression.
The effect of phosphoinositide depletion on focal adhesion kinase (FAK) signaling was investigated in two neuronal cell lines. Treatment of either SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells or PC12 cells with wortmannin, at a concentration that inhibits phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase activity, led to a selective depletion of phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate without significantly altering phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate (PIP2) content. An enhanced tyrosine phosphorylation of FAK elicited by agonist occupancy of phospholipase C-coupled receptors (muscarinic cholinergic in SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma or bradykinin in PC12 cells) was blocked completely by wortmannin. Under the above conditions, phosphoinositide resynthesis was prevented, and as a consequence, receptor stimulation led to a marked depletion of PIP2. In contrast, the increased tyrosine phosphorylation of FAK elicited by agents that do not activate phospholipase C (phenylarsine oxide, lysophosphatidic acid, or phorbol ester) persisted in the presence of wortmannin. However, the ability of these agents to elicit an increase in FAK phosphorylation was also prevented if PIP2 was depleted by activation of a phospholipase C-coupled receptor in the presence of wortmannin. The results suggest that agonist-sensitive pools of PIP2 must be maintained for FAK signaling to occur in response to a mechanistically diverse range of stimuli.
Organotypic rat hippocampal slice cultures were used to study the role of excitatory amino acid transporters (EAATs) in kainate-induced cell death. Expression of the neuronal (EAAT3) or glial (EAAT2) transporters was inhibited with antisense phosphothioate oligonucleotides, and cytotoxicity was assessed with propidium iodide uptake. In control cultures, a concentration of 10 microM kainate was more cytotoxic in CA3 than in CA1. Treatment for 24 h with EAAT3 antisense oligonucleotide decreased kainate toxicity in CA1 but had an opposite effect in CA3. Neither antisense oligonucleotide to EAAT2 nor mismatch oligonucleotide to EAAT3 decreased kainate toxicity in CA1. Immunoblotting with affinity-purified antibodies showed that EAAT3 antisense oligonucleotide decreased selectively EAAT3 but not EAAT2 protein levels, and vice versa. NMDA was more cytotoxic in CA1 than in CA3, and antisense oligonucleotides to either EAAT3 or EAAT2 did not decrease the NMDA effect in CA1 or CA3. Dihydrokainate and DL-threo-beta-hydroxyaspartic acid were more cytotoxic in CA1 than in CA3, suggesting that the higher vulnerability of CA3 to kainate was not the result of its activity as transporter blocker. We conclude that glutamate transporters differentially regulate excitotoxicity in different hippocampal subfields.
Progestins may have actions in the midbrain though gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)A/benzodiazepine receptor complexes (GBRs) that are relevant for sexual receptivity. The efficacy and time course of various progestins to enhance lordosis when applied to the ventral tegmental area (VTA), following progesterone to the ventral medial hypothalamus (VMH) was investigated. Ovariectomized, oestrogen-primed rats and hamsters with contralateral VMH/VTA cannulae were tested for lordosis before and after implants of P to the VMH and progestins to the VTA. The progestins were P, 5alpha-pregnan-3,20-dione (DHP), 5alpha-pregnan-3alpha-ol-20-one(3alpha,5alpha-TH P), 5alpha-pregnan-3alpha,21-diol-20-one (THDOC), 5beta-pregnan-3alpha-ol-20-one(3alpha,5beta-THP) , 17alpha-ol-6-methyl-4,6-pregnadiene-3,20-dione-17-acetate (megestrol acetate, MA), and 6-chloro-17-ol-4,6-pregnadiene-3, 20-dione-17-acetate (chlormadinone acetate, CA). Progestins' effects on GABA-mediated chloride influx and SR 95531 binding in cortical and midbrain tissue, respectively, were examined in rats and hamsters. 3alpha,5alpha-THP and THDOC implants to the VTA were the most effective at immediately facilitating lordosis of rats and hamsters. Two hours later all other progestins, except MA and CA, increased lordosis in rats; only P, 3alpha,5alpha-THP, and THDOC were effective in hamsters. The progestins' effectiveness at facilitating lordosis were similar to their effects on GABA-stimulated chloride influx and SR 95531 receptor binding (3alpha,5alpha-THP and THDOC&gt;P&gt;DHP&gt;3alpha, 5beta-THP&gt;MA and CA). These findings suggest that progesterone lordosis enhancing effects in the rodent VTA may be via GBRs.
Endogenous agonists acting at kappa-opioid receptors modulate the discharge activity of hypothalamic supraoptic nucleus vasopressin cells in vivo. Phasic activity in vasopressin cells is known to depend critically on intrinsic mechanisms involving post-spike depolarizing after-potentials and we hypothesized that inhibition of phasic bursting by an endogenous kappa-agonist may result from reducing the magnitude of depolarizing after-potentials. To investigate this possibility, intracellular sharp electrode recordings were obtained from supraoptic nucleus cells impaled in superfused explants of rat hypothalamus. Bath application of the selective kappa-agonist, U50,488H (0.1-1 microM), decreased the spontaneous firing rate of magnocellular neurosecretory cells (by 94. 0+/-4.5% at 1 microM, mean+/-SEM; P = 0.02, n = 4). U50,488H did not alter membrane potential (0.9+/-0.8 mV hyperpolarization at 1 microM, P = 0.17, n = 8) or input resistance (11.0+/-4.5% increase at 1 microM, P = 0.09, n = 5). U50,488H (0.1 and 1 microM, both n = 5) reduced depolarizing after-potential amplitude (by 29.9+/-9.3 and 78.0+/-10. 6%, respectively, P&lt;0.001) in eight cells in which the baseline membrane potential was kept constant by dc-current injection and in which a depolarizing after-potential was evoked every 25-40 s by a brief (40-80 ms) train of 3-6 action potentials (the number of spikes in the trains was kept constant for each cell). Thus, kappa-opioid receptor activation reduces depolarizing after-potential amplitude in supraoptic nucleus cells and this may underlie the reduction in burst duration of vasopressin cells caused by an endogenous kappa-agonist in vivo.
In a number of ALS patients, a long delay between onset of symptoms and diagnosis is reported. In this international study (ISIS Survey) we have identified the pathway followed by ALS patients from first symptoms to diagnosis confirmation. Diagnostic data from a total of 201 patients with definite ALS from 6 countries (Argentina, Brazil, Germany, Italy, Spain and the USA) were analyzed. The median time needed to confirm diagnosis was found to be 14 months; time to first consultation took 2 months, time to consultation with a neurologist took 8 months, and time for observation and diagnostic assessment by the neurologist took 4 months. This time delay was shorter when presentation was at bulbar level and when fasciculations were present. The major causes of diagnostic delay were unfamiliarity of the physician with the disease, unusual clinical presentation, coexistence of other diseases to which clinical symptomatology was attributed, misleading findings or misinterpretation of neuro-radiological or neurophysiological findings. The diagnostic delay has several implications for patients and their families, including mismanagement, delay in establishing appropriate and individualized pharmacological and symptomatic therapies, and difficulty in planning personal and familiar future.
Thrombolysis increases case fatality but reduces the proportion of disabled survivors in recent trials in acute ischaemic stroke, although some trials show much higher mortality rates than others. One possible explanation for the different outcomes between trials is that the treatment effect with thrombolysis varies with baseline prognostic factors such as stroke severity. We examined the interaction between baseline risk and thrombolysis on outcome using individual patient data from the Multicentre Acute Stroke Trial-Italy (MAST-I). A multiple logistic regression of the MAST-I data was performed to identify which factors, identifiable at randomisation, most strongly predict a poor functional outcome. We then stratified the patients into those with severe strokes and those with mild strokes and examined the effect of thrombolysis on (a) case fatality and (b) dependency at 6 months after the stroke in the 157 patients who received streptokinase alone and the 156 controls. Streptokinase was found to cause an absolute increase of about 3% in case fatality in both &quot;severe&quot; and &quot;mild&quot; strokes; however, there was a 12% reduction in the number of dead or dependent &quot;mild&quot; strokes but a 6% increase in &quot;severe&quot; strokes. The number of patients was small, and therefore neither finding was statistically significant. In this exploratory analysis, the hazard with streptokinase appears similar in &quot;severe&quot; and &quot;mild&quot; strokes, but the benefit may be greater in &quot;mild&quot; strokes. Thrombolysis may be more effective in patients with &quot;mild&quot; strokes, but more information is required to confirm this hypothesis.
Patients with a lacunar stroke syndrome may have cortical infarcts on brain imaging rather than lacunar infarcts, and patients with the clinical features of a small cortical stroke (partial anterior circulation syndrome, PACS) may have lacunar infarcts on imaging. The aim was to compare risk factors and outcome in lacunar syndrome (LACS) with cortical infarct, LACS with lacunar infarct, PACS with cortical infarct, and PACS with lacunar infarct to determine whether the clinical syndrome should be modified according to brain imaging. As part of a hospital stroke registry, patients with first ever stroke from 1990 to 1998 were assessed by a stroke physician who assigned a clinical classification using clinical features only. A neuroradiologist classified recent clinically relevant infarcts on brain imaging as cortical, posterior cerebral artery territory or lacunar. Of 1772 first ever strokes, there were 637 patients with PACS and 377 patients with LACS who had CT or MRI. Recent infarcts were seen in 395 PACS and 180 LACS. Atrial fibrillation was more common in PACS with cortical than lacunar infarcts (OR 2.3, 95% confidence interval (95% CI) 0.9-5.5), and in LACS with cortical than lacunar infarcts (OR 3.9, 1.2-12). Severe ipsilateral carotid stenosis or occlusion was more common in PACS with cortical than lacunar infarcts (OR 3.5, 1.3-9.5); and in LACS with cortical than lacunar infarcts (OR 3.7, 1.1-12). In conclusion, patients with cortical infarcts are more likely to have severe ipsilateral carotid stenosis or atrial fibrillation than those with lacunar infarcts irrespective of the presenting clinical syndrome. Brain imaging should modify the clinical classification and influence patient investigation.
Speed of information processing was assessed in patients with multiple sclerosis and healthy controls using both an auditory and visual task designed to control for accuracy of performance across groups. After controlling for accuracy of performance, patients with multiple sclerosis were found to have significantly slower speed of information processing relative healthy controls, irrespective of the modality of stimulus presentation (auditory or visual). When given an adequate amount of time to process information, however, the patients performed similarly to controls. These results suggest that persons with multiple sclerosis experience deficits specifically in processing speed but not performance accuracy. Results are discussed in terms of rehabilitative guidelines for the cognitive improvement of persons with multiple sclerosis.
Doctors managing acute stroke are expected to recognise signs of early infarction on CT before choosing thrombolytic treatment, according to recent trials and guidelines. The ability of 13 physicians and two neuroradiologists to recognise early infarct signs and decide whether patients should be randomised in a hypothetical stroke treatment trial was tested. Only 65% of the CT scans from 14 stroke patients were correctly identified as normal or abnormal (95% CI 60-69%). Neither observer experience nor knowledge of symptoms significantly improved recognition of abnormality, although experience did significantly improve the observers' ability to reproduce their results. Parenchymal hypodensity was the least well recognised sign. Only 45% (95% CI 40%-50%) of patients were identified correctly for the hypothetical acute stroke treatment trial. Early infarction on CT is not well recognised even by experienced doctors. Part of the problem may be in understanding the definitions of the extent of infarction. These difficulties should be considered in the design of acute stroke treatment trials and in the introduction of any new acute stroke treatments.

We describe a major glial cell population in the central nervous system (CNS) that can be identified by the expression of 2 cell surface molecules, the NG2 proteoglycan and the alpha receptor for platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF alphaR). In vitro and in the developing brain in vivo, NG2 and PDGF alphaR are expressed on oligodendrocyte progenitor cells but are down-regulated as the progenitor cells differentiate into mature oligodendrocytes. In the mature CNS, numerous NG2+/PDGF alphaR+ cells with extensive arborization of their cell processes are found ubiquitously long after oligodendrocytes are generated. NG2+ cells in the mature CNS do not express antigens specific to mature oligodendrocytes, astrocytes, microglia, or neurons, suggesting that they are a novel population of glial cells. Recently NG2+ cells in the adult CNS have been shown to undergo proliferation and morphological changes in response to a variety of stimuli, such as demyelination and inflammation, suggesting that they are dynamic cells capable of responding to changes in the environment. Furthermore, high levels of NG2+ and PDGF alphaR are expressed on oligodendroglioma cells, raising the possibility that the NG2+/PDGF alphaR+ cells in the mature CNS contribute to glial neoplasm.
Voice onset time (VOT) is an important parameter of speech that denotes the time interval between consonant onset and the onset of low-frequency periodicity generated by rhythmic vocal cord vibration. Voiced stop consonants (/b/, /g/, and /d/) in syllable initial position are characterized by short VOTs, whereas unvoiced stop consonants (/p/, /k/, and t/) contain prolonged VOTs. As the VOT is increased in incremental steps, perception rapidly changes from a voiced stop consonant to an unvoiced consonant at an interval of 20-40 ms. This abrupt change in consonant identification is an example of categorical speech perception and is a central feature of phonetic discrimination. This study tested the hypothesis that VOT is represented within auditory cortex by transient responses time-locked to consonant and voicing onset. Auditory evoked potentials (AEPs) elicited by stop consonant-vowel (CV) syllables were recorded directly from Heschl's gyrus, the planum temporale, and the superior temporal gyrus in three patients undergoing evaluation for surgical remediation of medically intractable epilepsy. Voiced CV syllables elicited a triphasic sequence of field potentials within Heschl's gyrus. AEPs evoked by unvoiced CV syllables contained additional response components time-locked to voicing onset. Syllables with a VOT of 40, 60, or 80 ms evoked components time-locked to consonant release and voicing onset. In contrast, the syllable with a VOT of 20 ms evoked a markedly diminished response to voicing onset and elicited an AEP very similar in morphology to that evoked by the syllable with a 0-ms VOT. Similar response features were observed in the AEPs evoked by click trains. In this case, there was a marked decrease in amplitude of the transient response to the second click in trains with interpulse intervals of 20-25 ms. Speech-evoked AEPs recorded from the posterior superior temporal gyrus lateral to Heschl's gyrus displayed comparable response features, whereas field potentials recorded from three locations in the planum temporale did not contain components time-locked to voicing onset. This study demonstrates that VOT at least partially is represented in primary and specific secondary auditory cortical fields by synchronized activity time-locked to consonant release and voicing onset. Furthermore, AEPs exhibit features that may facilitate categorical perception of stop consonants, and these response patterns appear to be based on temporal processing limitations within auditory cortex. Demonstrations of similar speech-evoked response patterns in animals support a role for these experimental models in clarifying selected features of speech encoding.
We studied changes in thalamo-prefrontal cortical transmission in behaving mice following both low-frequency stimulation of the mediodorsal thalamus (MD) and during extinction of a conditioned fear response. Electrical stimulation of the MD induces a field potential in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) characterized by two initial negative-positive complexes (N1-P1 and N2-P2) followed by two positive-negative complexes (P2-N3 and P3-N4). The N1-P1 and N2-P2 complexes were identified as resulting from orthodromic and antidromic prefrontal activation, respectively. Because the two complexes were not often easily dissociated, plasticity in the prefrontal synaptic transmission was considered to result from changes in N1-P2 amplitude. Low-frequency thalamic stimulation (1, 200 pulses at 2 Hz) produced either long-term (at least 32 min) depression or potentiation of the N1-P2 amplitude. Mice submitted to fear conditioning (tone-shock association), displayed on the first day of extinction (tone-alone presentations) a strong freezing behavior, which decreased progressively, but was still high the following day. Extinction of conditioned fear was accompanied the first day by a depression of prefrontal transmission, which was converted into potentiation the following day. Potentiation of prefrontal transmission lasted at least 24 h following the second day of the fear extinction procedure. In conclusion, low-frequency thalamic stimulation can produce, in behaving mice, either depression or potentiation of prefrontal synaptic transmission. Decrease in prefrontal synaptic transmission observed during the first day of extinction may reflect processing of the high degree of predictiveness of danger (unconditioned stimulus: US) by the aversive conditioned stimulus (CS). However, the subsequent potentiation of transmission in the mPFC may be related to processing of cognitive information such as the CS will no longer be followed by the US, even if emotional response (freezing) to the CS is still high.
The cellular and synaptic mechanisms by which general anesthetics affect cell-cell communications in the nervous system remain poorly defined. In this study, we sought to determine how clinically relevant concentrations of sevoflurane affected inhibitory synaptic transmission between identified Lymnaea neurons in vitro. Inhibitory synapses were reconstructed in cell culture, between the somata of two functionally well-characterized neurons, right pedal dorsal 1 (RPeD1, the giant dopaminergic neuron) and visceral dorsal 4 (VD4). Clinically relevant concentrations of sevoflurane (1-4%) were tested for their effects on synaptic transmission and the intrinsic membrane properties of soma-soma paired cells. RPeD1- induced inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs) in VD4 were completely and reversibly blocked by sevoflurane (4%). Sevoflurane also suppressed action potentials in both RPeD1 and VD4 cells. To determine whether the anesthetic-induced synaptic depression involved postsynaptic transmitter receptors, dopamine was pressure applied to VD4, either in the presence or absence of sevoflurane. Dopamine (10(-]5) M) activated a voltage-insensitive K(+) current in VD4. The same K(+) current was also altered by sevoflurane; however, the effects of two compounds were nonadditive. Because transmitter release from RPeD1 requires Ca(2+) influx through voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels, we next tested whether the anesthetic-induced synaptic depression involved these channels. Individually isolated RPeD1 somata were whole cell voltage clamped, and Ca(2+) currents were analyzed in control and various anesthetic conditions. Clinically relevant concentrations of sevoflurane did not significantly affect voltage-activated Ca(2+) channels in RPeD1. Taken together, this study provides the first direct evidence that sevoflurane-induced synaptic depression involves both pre- and postsynaptic ion channels.
The basilar membrane in the mammalian cochlea vibrates when the cochlea receives a sound stimulus. This mechanical vibration is transduced into hair cell receptor potentials and thereafter encoded by action potentials in the auditory nerve. Knowledge of the mechanical transformation that converts basilar membrane vibration into hair cell stimulation has been limited, until recently, to hypothetical geometric models. Experimental observations are largely lacking to prove or disprove the validity of these models. We have developed a hemicochlea preparation to visualize the kinematics of the cochlear micromechanism. Direct mechanical drive of 1-2 Hz sinusoidal command was applied to the basilar membrane. Vibration patterns of the basilar membrane, inner and outer hair cells, supporting cells, and tectorial membrane have been recorded concurrently by means of a video optical flow technique. Basilar membrane vibration was driven in a direction transversal to its plane. However, the direction of the resulting vibration was found to be essentially radial at the level of the reticular lamina and cuticular plates of inner and outer hair cells. The tectorial membrane vibration was mainly transversal. The transmission ratio between cilia displacement of inner and outer hair cells and basilar membrane vibration is in the range of 0.7-1.1. These observations support, in part, the classical geometric models at low frequencies. However, there appears to be less tectorial membrane motion than predicted, and it is largely in the transversal direction.
In the rodent brain stem trigeminal complex, select sets of neurons form modular arrays or &quot;barrelettes,&quot; that replicate the patterned distribution of whiskers and sinus hairs on the ipsilateral snout. These cells detect the patterned input from the trigeminal axons that innervate the whiskers and sinus hairs. Other brain stem trigeminal cells, interbarrelette neurons, do not form patterns and respond to multiple whiskers. We examined the membrane properties and synaptic responses of morphologically identified barrelette and interbarrelette neurons in the principal sensory nucleus (PrV) of the trigeminal nerve in early postnatal rats shortly after whisker-related patterns are established. Barrelette cell dendritic trees are confined to a single barrelette, whereas the dendrites of interbarrelette cells span wider territories. These two cell types are distinct from smaller GABAergic interneurons. Barrelette cells can be distinguished by a prominent transient A-type K(+) current (I(A)) and higher input resistance. On the other hand, interbarrelette cells display a prominent low-threshold T-type Ca(2+) current (I(T)) and lower input resistance. Both classes of neurons respond differently to electrical stimulation of the trigeminal tract. Barrelette cells show either a monosynaptic excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP) followed by a large disynaptic inhibitory postsynaptic potential (IPSP) or just simply a disynaptic IPSP. Increasing stimulus intensity produces little change in EPSP amplitude but leads to a stepwise increase in IPSP amplitude, suggesting that barrelette cells receive more inhibitory input than excitatory input. This pattern of excitation and inhibition indicates that barrelette cells receive both feed-forward and lateral inhibition. Interbarrelette cells show a large monosynaptic EPSP followed by a small disynaptic IPSP. Increasing stimulus intensity leads to a stepwise increase in EPSP amplitude and the appearance of polysynaptic EPSPs, suggesting that interbarrelette cells receive excitatory inputs from multiple sources. Taken together, these results indicate that barrelette and interbarrelette neurons can be identified by their morphological and functional attributes soon after whisker-related pattern formation in the PrV.
We have used multiple-labeling immunohistochemistry, intracellular dye-filling, and intracellular microelectrode recordings to characterize the morphological and electrical properties of sympathetic neurons in the superior cervical, thoracic, and celiac ganglia of mice. Neurochemical and morphological characteristics of neurons varied between ganglia. Thoracic sympathetic ganglia contained three main populations of neurons based on differential patterns of expression of immunoreactivity to tyrosine hydroxylase, neuropeptide Y (NPY) and vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP). In the celiac ganglion, nearly all neurons contained immunoreactivity to both tyrosine hydroxylase and NPY. Both the overall size of the dendritic tree and the number of primary dendrites were greater in neurons from the thoracic and celiac ganglia compared with those from the superior cervical ganglion. The electrophysiological properties of sympathetic neurons depended more on their ganglion of origin rather than their probable targets. All neurons in the superior cervical ganglion had phasic firing properties and large afterhyperpolarizations (AHPs). In addition, 34% of these neurons displayed an afterdepolarization preceding the AHP. Superior cervical ganglion neurons had prominent I(M), I(A), and I(H) currents and a linear current-voltage relationship between -60 and -110 mV. Neurons from the thoracic ganglia had significantly smaller action potentials, AHPs, and apparent cell capacitance compared with superior cervical ganglion neurons, and only 18% showed an afterdepolarization. All neurons in superior cervical ganglia and most neurons in celiac ganglia received at least one strong preganglionic input. Nearly one-half the neurons in the celiac ganglion had tonic firing properties, and another 15% had firing properties intermediate between those of tonic and phasic neurons. Most celiac neurons showed significant inward rectification below -90 mV. They also expressed I(A), but with slower inactivation kinetics than that of superior cervical or thoracic neurons. Both phasic and tonic celiac ganglion neurons received synaptic inputs via the celiac nerves in addition to strong inputs via the splanchnic nerves. Multivariate statistical analysis revealed that the properties of the action potential, the AHP, and the apparent cell capacitance together were sufficient to correctly classify 80% of neurons according to their ganglion of origin. These results indicate that there is considerable heterogeneity in the morphological, neurochemical, and electrical properties of sympathetic neurons in mice. Although the morphological and neurochemical characteristics of the neurons are likely to be related to their peripheral projections, the expression of particular electrophysiological traits seems to be more closely related to the ganglia within which the neurons occur.
Activity was recorded extracellularly from single cells in motor and premotor cortex as monkeys traced figure-eights on a touch-sensitive computer monitor using the index finger. Each unit was recorded individually, and the responses collected from four hemispheres (3 primary motor and 1 dorsal premotor) were analyzed as a population. Population vectors constructed from this activity accurately and isomorphically represented the shape of the drawn figures showing that they represent the spatial aspect of the task well. These observations were extended by examining the temporal relation between this neural representation and finger displacement. Movements generated during this task were made in four kinematic segments. This segmentation was clearly evident in a time series of population vectors. In addition, the (2)/(3) power law described for human drawing was also evident in the neural correlate of the monkey hand trajectory. Movement direction and speed changed continuously during the task. Within each segment, speed and direction changed reciprocally. The prediction interval between the population vector and movement direction increased in the middle of the segments where curvature was high, but decreased in straight portions at the beginning and end of each segment. In contrast to direction, prediction intervals between the movement speed and population vector length were near-constant with only a modest modulation in each segment. Population vectors predicted direction (vector angle) and speed (vector length) throughout the drawing task. Joint angular velocity and arm muscle EMG were well correlated to hand direction, suggesting that kinematic and kinetic parameters are correlated in these tasks.
Monkeys traced spirals on a planar surface as unitary activity was recorded from either premotor or primary motor cortex. Using the population vector algorithm, the hand's trajectory could be accurately visualized with the cortical activity throughout the task. The time interval between this prediction and the corresponding movement varied linearly with the instantaneous radius of curvature; the prediction interval was longer when the path of the finger was more curved (smaller radius). The intervals in the premotor cortex fell into two groups, whereas those in the primary motor cortex formed a single group. This suggests that the change in prediction interval is a property of a single population in primary motor cortex, with the possibility that this outcome is due to the different properties generated by the simultaneous action of separate subpopulations in premotor cortex. Electromyographic (EMG) activity and joint kinematics were also measured in this task. These parameters varied harmonically throughout the task with many of the same characteristics as those of single cortical cells. Neither the lags between joint-angular velocities and hand velocity nor the lags between EMG and hand velocity could explain the changes in prediction interval between cortical activity and hand velocity. The simple spatial and temporal relationship between cortical activity and finger trajectory suggests that the figural aspects of this task are major components of cortical activity.
The motor cortical substrate associated with reaching was studied as monkeys moved their hands from a central position to one of eight targets spaced around a circle. Single-cell activity patterns were recorded in the proximal arm area of motor cortex during the task. In addition to the well-studied average directional selectivity (&quot;preferred direction&quot;) of single-cell activity, we also found the time-varying speed of movement to be represented in the cortical activity. A single equation relating motor cortical discharge rate to these two parameters was developed. This equation, which has both independent (speed only) and interactive (speed and direction) components, described a large portion of the time-varying motor cortical activity during the task. Electromyographic activity from a number of upper arm muscles was recorded during this task. Muscle activity was also found to be directionally tuned; however, the distributions of preferred directions were found to be significantly different from cortical activity. In addition, the effect of speed on cortical and muscle activity was also found to be significantly different.
The role of dorsal root reflexes (DRRs) in acute cutaneous neurogenic inflammation induced by intradermal injection of capsaicin (CAP) was examined in anesthetized rats. Changes in cutaneous blood flow (flare) on the plantar surface of the foot were measured using a laser Doppler flowmeter, and neurogenic edema was examined by measurements of paw thickness. To implicate DRRs in neurogenic inflammation after CAP injection, the ipsilateral sciatic and femoral nerves were sectioned, dorsal rhizotomies were performed at L(3-)-S(1), and antagonists of GABA or excitatory amino acid receptors were administered intrathecally. Intradermal injection of CAP evoked a flare response that was largest at 15-20 mm from the injection site and that spread &gt;30 mm. Acute transection of the sciatic and femoral nerves or dorsal rhizotomies nearly completely abolished the blood flow changes 15-20 mm from the CAP injection site, although there was only a minimal effect on blood flow near the injection site. These procedures also significantly reduced neurogenic edema. Intrathecal bicuculline, 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione, (CNQX) or D(-)-2-amino-7-phosphonoheptanoic acid (AP7), but not phaclofen, also reduced dramatically the increases in blood flow 15-20 mm from the CAP injection site, but had only a minimal effect on blood flow near the injection site. Neurogenic edema was reduced by the same agents that reduced blood flow. Multiunit DRRs recorded from the central stumps of cut dorsal rootlets in the lumbar spinal cord were enhanced after CAP injection. This enhanced DRR activity could be reduced significantly by posttreatment of the spinal cord with bicuculline, CNQX or AP7, but not phaclofen. It is concluded that peripheral cutaneous inflammation induced by intradermal injection of CAP involves central nervous mechanisms. DRRs play a major role in the development of neurogenic cutaneous inflammation, although a direct action of CAP on peripheral nerve terminals or the generation of axon reflexes also may contribute to changes in the skin near the injection site.
A sudden change in the direction of motion is a particularly salient and relevant feature of visual information. Extensive research has identified cortical areas responsive to visual motion and characterized their sensitivity to different features of motion, such as directional specificity. However, relatively little is known about responses to sudden changes in direction. Electrophysiological data from animals and functional imaging data from humans suggest a number of brain areas responsive to motion, presumably working as a network. Temporal patterns of activity allow the same network to process information in different ways. The present study in humans sought to determine which motion-sensitive areas are involved in processing changes in the direction of motion and to characterize the temporal patterns of processing within this network of brain regions. To accomplish this, we used both magnetoencephalography (MEG) and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). The fMRI data were used as supplementary information in the localization of MEG sources. The change in the direction of visual motion was found to activate a number of areas, each displaying a different temporal behavior. The fMRI revealed motion-related activity in areas MT+ (the human homologue of monkey middle temporal area and possibly also other motion sensitive areas next to MT), a region near the posterior end of the superior temporal sulcus (pSTS), V3A, and V1/V2. The MEG data suggested additional frontal sources. An equivalent dipole model for the generators of MEG signals indicated activity in MT+, starting at 130 ms and peaking at 170 ms after the reversal of the direction of motion, and then again at approximately 260 ms. Frontal activity began 0-20 ms later than in MT+, and peaked approximately 180 ms. Both pSTS and FEF+ showed long-duration activity continuing over the latency range of 200-400 ms. MEG responses in the region of V3A and V1/V2 were relatively small, and peaked at longer latencies than the initial peak in MT+. These data revealed characteristic patterns of activity in this cortical network for processing sudden changes in the direction of visual motion.
The single-electrode voltage-clamp technique was used to characterize voltage-gated Ca(2+) currents in dissociated Lymnaea heart ventricular cells. In the presence of 30 mM tetraethylammonium (TEA), two distinct Ca(2+) currents could be identified. The first current activated between -70 and -60 mV. It was fully available for activation at potentials more negative than -80 mV. The current was fast to activate and inactivate. The inactivation of the current was voltage dependent. The current was larger when it was carried by Ca(2+) compared with Ba(2+), although changing the permeant ion had no observable effect on the kinetics of the evoked currents. The current was blocked by Co(2+) and La(3+) (1 mM) but was particularly sensitive to Ni(2+) ions ( approximately 50% block with 100 microM Ni(2+)) and insensitive to low doses of the dihydropyridine Ca(2+) channel antagonist, nifedipine. All these properties classify this current as a member of the low-voltage-activated (LVA) T-type family of Ca(2+) currents. The activation threshold of the current (-70 mV) suggests that it has a role in pacemaking and action potential generation. Muscle contractions were first seen at -50 mV, indicating that this current might supply some of the Ca(2+) necessary for excitation-contraction coupling. The second, a high-voltage-activated (HVA) current, activated at potentials between -40 and -30 mV and was fully available for activation at potentials more negative than -60 mV. This current was also fast to activate and with Ca(2+) as the permeant ion, inactivated completely during the 200-ms voltage step. Substitution of Ba(2+) for Ca(2+) increased the amplitude of the current and significantly slowed the rate of inactivation. The inactivation of this current appeared to be current rather than voltage dependent. This current was blocked by Co(2+) and La(3+) ions (1 mM) but was sensitive to micromolar concentrations of nifedipine ( approximately 50% block 10 microM nifedipine) that were ineffective at blocking the LVA current. These properties characterize this current as a L-type Ca(2+) current. The voltage sensitivity of this current suggests that it is also important in generating the spontaneous action potentials, and in providing some of the Ca(2+) necessary for excitation-contraction coupling. These data provide the first detailed description of the voltage-dependent Ca(2+) currents present in the heart muscle cells of an invertebrate and indicate that pacemaking in the molluscan heart has some similarities with that of the mammalian heart.
We have used a combination of current-clamp and voltage-clamp techniques to characterize the electrophysiological properties of enzymatically dissociated Lymnaea heart ventricle cells. Dissociated ventricular muscle cells had average resting membrane potentials of -55 +/- 5 mV. When hyperpolarized to potentials between -70 and -63 mV, ventricle cells were capable of firing repetitive action potentials (8.5 +/- 1.2 spikes/min) that failed to overshoot 0 mV. The action potentials were either simple spikes or more complex spike/plateau events. The latter were always accompanied by strong contractions of the muscle cell. The waveform of the action potentials were shown to be dependent on the presence of extracellular Ca(2+) and K(+) ions. With the use of the single-electrode voltage-clamp technique, two types of voltage-gated K(+) currents were identified that could be separated by differences in their voltage sensitivity and time-dependent kinetics. The first current activated between -50 and -40 mV. It was relatively fast to activate (time-to-peak; 13.7 +/- 0.7 ms at +40 mV) and inactivated by 53.3 +/- 4.9% during a maintained 200-ms depolarization. It was fully available for activation below -80 mV and was completely inactivated by holding potentials more positive than -40 mV. It was completely blocked by 5 mM 4-aminopyridine (4-AP) and by concentrations of tetraethylammonium chloride (TEA) &gt;10 mM. These properties characterize this current as a member of the A-type family of voltage-dependent K(+) currents. The second voltage-gated K(+) current activated at more depolarized potentials (-30 to -20 mV). It activated slower than the A-type current (time-to-peak; 74.1 +/- 3.9 ms at +40 mV) and showed little inactivation (6.2 +/- 2.1%) during a maintained 200-ms depolarization. The current was fully available for activation below -80 mV with a proportion of the current still available for activation at potentials as positive as 0 mV. The current was completely blocked by 1-3 mM TEA. These properties characterize this current as a member of the delayed rectifier family of voltage-dependent K(+) currents. The slow activation rates and relatively depolarized activation thresholds of the two K(+) currents are suggestive that their main role is to contribute to the repolarization phase of the action potential.
To understand changes in motor behavior during development, kinematic measurements were made of the right leg during embryonic motility in chicks on embryonic (E) days 9, 11, and 13. This is an interesting developmental period during which the embryo first becomes large enough to be physically constrained by the shell. Additionally, sensory systems are incorporated at that time into the spinal motor circuitry. Previous electromyographic (EMG) recordings have shown that the basic pattern of muscle activity seen at E9, composed of half-center-type alternation of extensor and flexor activation, breaks down by E13. This breakdown in organization could be because of disruption of motor patterns by the immature sensory system and/or new spatial constraints on the embryo. The current article describes several changes in leg movement patterns during this period. Episodes of motility increase in duration and the intervals of time between episodes of motility decrease in length. The range of motion of the leg increases, but the overall posture of the leg becomes more flexed. It was found that in-phase coordination of movement among the hip, knee, and ankle decreased between E9 and E13 in agreement with the previous EMG recordings. However, it was also found that the decrease of in-phase coordination among the three joints was accompanied by an increase in the time any two joints were moving in the same manner. Furthermore, examination of in-phase coordination within pairs of joints showed that all three pairs were well coordinated at E9, but that at E13 the in-phase coordination of the ankle with the other two joints decreased, whereas the knee and hip coordination was maintained. This suggests that the hip-knee synergy was closely coupled and that coupling of the ankle with other joints was more labile. The authors conclude that embryos respond to the reduction of free space in the egg during this period not by decreasing the amplitude or coordination of leg movements in general, but instead by differentially controlling the movements of the ankle from those of the hip and knee. Additionally, the changes in movement patterns do not represent a decrease in organization, but rather an alteration of motor coordination possibly as the result of information from the newly acquired sensory systems. These data also support theories that limb central pattern generators (CPGs) are composed of unit CPGs for each joint that can be modulated individually and that this organization is already established early in embryogenesis.
Based on properties of excitatory frequency (spectral) receptive fields (esRFs), previous studies have indicated that cat primary auditory cortex (A1) is composed of functionally distinct dorsal and ventral subdivisions. Dorsal A1 (A1d) has been suggested to be involved in analyzing complex spectral patterns, whereas ventral A1 (A1v) appears better suited for analyzing narrowband sounds. However, these studies were based on single-tone stimuli and did not consider how neuronal responses to tones are modulated when the tones are part of a more complex acoustic environment. In the visual and peripheral auditory systems, stimulus components outside of the esRF can exert strong modulatory effects on responses. We investigated the organization of inhibitory frequency regions outside of the pure-tone esRF in single neurons in cat A1. We found a high incidence of inhibitory response areas (in 95% of sampled neurons) and a wide variety in the structure of inhibitory bands ranging from a single band to more than four distinct inhibitory regions. Unlike the auditory nerve where most fibers possess two surrounding &quot;lateral&quot; suppression bands, only 38% of A1 cells had this simple structure. The word lateral is defined in this sense to be inhibition or suppression that extends beyond the low- and high-frequency borders of the esRF. Regional differences in the distribution of inhibitory RF structure across A1 were evident. In A1d, only 16% of the cells had simple two-banded lateral RF organization, whereas 50% of A1v cells had this organization. This nonhomogeneous topographic distribution of inhibitory properties is consistent with the hypothesis that A1 is composed of at least two functionally distinct subdivisions that may be part of different auditory cortical processing streams.
Neuronal activity often is treated as a composition of a stimulus-driven component and a second component that corrupts the signal, adding or deleting spikes at random. Standard quantitative methods such as peristimulus histograms and Fourier analysis use stimulus-locked averaging to enhance detection of the driven component of neuronal responses and de-emphasize the &quot;noise.&quot; However, neural activity also includes bursts, oscillations, and other episodic events that standard averaging methods overlook. If this activity is stimulus independent, it can be characterized by standard power spectral analysis (or autocorrelation). But activity that is excited by (but not temporally locked to) the visual stimulus cannot be characterized by averaging or standard spectral analysis. Phase-locked spectral analysis (PLSA) is a new method that examines this &quot;residual&quot; activity-the difference between the individual responses to each cycle of a periodic stimulus and their average. With PLSA, residual activity is characterized in terms of temporal envelopes and their carriers. Previously, PLSA demonstrated broadband interactions between periodic visual stimuli and fluctuations in the local field potential of macaque V1. In the present study, single-unit responses (SUA) from parafoveal V1 in anesthetized macaque monkey are examined with this technique. Recordings were made from 21 neurons, 6 of which were recorded in pairs along with multiunit activity (MUA) from separate electrodes and 8 of which were recorded along with MUA from the same electrode. PLSA was applied to responses to preferred (orientation, direction, and spatial frequency) and nonpreferred drifting gratings. For preferred stimuli, all cells demonstrated broadband (1-10 Hz and higher) residual activity that waxed and waned with the stimulus cycle, suggesting that changes in the residual activity are introduced routinely by visual stimulation. Moreover, some reconstructed envelopes indicate that the residual activity was sharply gated by the stimulus cycle. Oscillations occasionally were seen in the power spectrum of single units. Phase-locked cross-spectra were determined for 3 SUA/SUA pairs and 11 SUA/MUA pairs. Residual activity in the cross-spectra was generally much less than the residual activity determined separately from each neuron. The reduction in the residual activity in the cross-spectra suggests that nearby neurons may gate inputs from distinct and relatively independent neuronal subpopulations that together generate the background rhythms of striate cortex.
Electrophysiological recordings of outside-out patches to fast-flow applications of glycine were made on patches derived from the Mauthner cells of the 50-h-old zebrafish larva. As for glycinergic miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents (mIPSCs), depolarizing the patch produced a broadening of the transient outside-out current evoked by short applications (1 ms) of a saturating concentration of glycine (3 mM). When the outside-out patch was depolarized from -50 to +20 mV, the peak current varied linearly with voltage. A 1-ms application of 3 mM glycine evoked currents that activated rapidly and deactivated biexponentially with time constants of approximately 5 and approximately 30 ms (holding potential of -50 mV). These two decay time constants were increased by depolarization. The fast deactivation time constant increased e-fold per 95 mV. The relative amplitude of the two decay components did not significantly vary with voltage. The fast component represented 64.2 +/- 2.8% of the total current at -50 mV and 54.1 +/- 10% at +20 mV. The 20-80% rise time of these responses did not show any voltage dependence, suggesting that the opening rate constant is insensitive to voltage. The 20-80% rise time was 0.2 ms at -70 mV and 0.22 ms at +20 mV. Responses evoked by 100-200 ms application of a low concentration of glycine (0.1 mM) had a biphasic rising phase reflecting the complex gating behavior of the glycine receptor. The time constant of these two components and their relative amplitude did not change with voltage, suggesting that modal shifts in the glycine-activated channel gating mode are not sensitive to the membrane potential. Using a Markov model to simulate glycine receptor gating behavior, we were able to mimic the voltage-dependent change in the deactivation time course of the responses evoked by 1-ms application of 3 mM glycine. This kinetics model incorporates voltage-dependent closing rate constants. It provides a good description of the time course of the onset of responses evoked by the application of a low concentration of glycine at all membrane potentials tested.
Repeated treatment with psychostimulant drugs causes long-lasting behavioral sensitization and associated neuroadaptations. Although sensitization induced by a single psychostimulant exposure has also been reported, information on the behavioral and neurochemical consequences of a single psychostimulant exposure is sparse. Therefore, to evaluate whether behavioral sensitization evoked by single and repeated psychostimulant pretreatment regimens represent the same neurobiological phenomenon, the time-dependent expression of behavioral, neurochemical, and neuroendocrine sensitization after a single exposure to amphetamine was investigated in rats. A single exposure to amphetamine (5 mg/kg, i.p.) caused context-independent sensitization of the locomotor effects of amphetamine, which intensified over time. Thus, sensitization to amphetamine was marginal at 3 d after treatment and more evident after 1 week, whereas 3 weeks after treatment, profound sensitization, as well as cross-sensitization, to cocaine was observed. Amphetamine pretreatment caused an increase in the electrically evoked release of [(3)H]dopamine from nucleus accumbens, caudate putamen, and medial prefrontal cortex slices and of [(14)C]acetylcholine from accumbens and caudate slices. The hyperreactivity of dopaminergic nerve terminals appeared to parallel the development of locomotor sensitization, i.e., whereas hyperreactivity of accumbens dopaminergic terminals increased between 3 d and 3 weeks after treatment, the hyperreactivity of medial prefrontal dopaminergic terminals decreased. Pre-exposure to amphetamine also sensitized the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis response to amphetamine at 1 and 3 weeks, but not at 3 d after treatment. Because these data closely resemble those reported previously for repeated amphetamine pretreatment, it is concluded that a single exposure to amphetamine is sufficient to induce long-term behavioral, neurochemical, and neuroendocrine sensitization in rats.
To investigate the behavioral mechanism of chemotaxis in Caenorhabditis elegans, we recorded the instantaneous position, speed, and turning rate of single worms as a function of time during chemotaxis in gradients of the attractants ammonium chloride or biotin. Analysis of turning rate showed that each worm track could be divided into periods of smooth swimming (runs) and periods of frequent turning (pirouettes). The initiation of pirouettes was correlated with the rate of change of concentration (dC/dt) but not with absolute concentration. Pirouettes were most likely to occur when a worm was heading down the gradient (dC/dt &lt; 0) and least likely to occur when a worm was heading up the gradient (dC/dt &gt; 0). Further analysis revealed that the average direction of movement after a pirouette was up the gradient. These observations suggest that chemotaxis is produced by a series of pirouettes that reorient the animal to the gradient. We tested this idea by imposing the correlation between pirouettes and dC/dt on a stochastic point model of worm motion. The model exhibited chemotaxis behavior in a radial gradient and also in a novel planar gradient. Thus, the pirouette model of C. elegans chemotaxis is sufficient and general.
The involvement of dopamine neurotransmission in behavioral responses to novelty is suggested by reports that reward is related to increased dopamine activity, that dopamine modulates exploratory behavior in animals, and that Parkinson's disease patients report diminished responses to novelty. Some studies have reported that polymorphisms of the human dopamine D4 receptor (D4R) gene are associated with personality inventory measures of the trait called &quot;novelty-seeking&quot;. To explore a potential role for the D4R in behavioral responses to novelty, we evaluated D4R-knock-out (D4R-/-) and wild-type (D4R+/+) mice in three approach-avoidance paradigms: the open field, emergence, and novel object tests. These three paradigms differ in the degree to which they elicit approach, or exploratory behavior, and avoidance, or anxiety-related behavior. Thus, we used these three tests to determine whether the D4R primarily influences the exploratory or the anxious component of responses to approach-avoidance conflicts. D4R-/- mice were significantly less behaviorally responsive to novelty than D4R+/+ mice in all three tests. The largest phenotypic differences were observed in the novel object test, which maximizes approach behavior, and the smallest phenotypic differences were found in the open field test, which maximizes avoidance behavior. Hence, D4R-/- mice exhibit reductions in behavioral responses to novelty, reflecting a decrease in novelty-related exploration.
To elucidate molecular mechanisms in learning and memory, we analyzed expression of mRNAs in brains of rabbits undergoing eyeblink conditioning. Infusion of the transcription inhibitor actinomycin D into the cerebellar interpositus nucleus reversibly blocked learning but not performance of the conditioned response. Differential display PCR analysis of cerebellar interpositus RNAs from trained and pseudotrained rabbits identified a 207 bp band that was induced with learning. The fragment was used to isolate a cDNA from a lambdagt11 rabbit brain library containing a 1698 bp open reading frame. The deduced amino acid sequence contains the KKIAMRE motif, which is conserved among cell division cycle 2 (cdc2)-related kinases. These results suggest that there is a new category of cdc2-related kinases in the brain whose function may be important in learning and memory.
Information in neuronal networks may be represented by the spatiotemporal patterns of spikes. Here we examined the temporal coordination of pyramidal cell spikes in the rat hippocampus during slow-wave sleep. In addition, rats were trained to run in a defined position in space (running wheel) to activate a selected group of pyramidal cells. A template-matching method and a joint probability map method were used for sequence search. Repeating spike sequences in excess of chance occurrence were examined by comparing the number of repeating sequences in the original spike trains and in surrogate trains after Monte Carlo shuffling of the spikes. Four different shuffling procedures were used to control for the population dynamics of hippocampal neurons. Repeating spike sequences in the recorded cell assemblies were present in both the awake and sleeping animal in excess of what might be predicted by random variations. Spike sequences observed during wheel running were &quot;replayed&quot; at a faster timescale during single sharp-wave bursts of slow-wave sleep. We hypothesize that the endogenously expressed spike sequences during sleep reflect reactivation of the circuitry modified by previous experience. Reactivation of acquired sequences may serve to consolidate information.
Kainic acid (KA) induces status epilepticus in both adult and young rats but with different consequences on pathology and gene expression. In adults, GluR2(B) AMPA subunit expression is markedly reduced in CA3 neurons before neurodegeneration. In pups, the GluR2(B) subunit is sustained, possibly contributing to neuronal survival. Mechanisms underlying the reduced vulnerability of developing neurons to seizures was investigated by examining the effects of unilateral microinfusions of GluR2(B) antisense oligodeoxynucleotides (AS-ODNs) into the hippocampus of young rats in the presence or absence of a subconvulsive dose of KA. GluR2(B) AS-ODN infusions resulted in spontaneous seizure-like behavior, high stimulus intensity population spikes in the absence of long-term potentiation, and neurodegeneration of CA3 neurons lateral to the infusion site. Electroencephalography revealed paroxysmal activity and high-frequency high-amplitude discharges associated with vigorous and continuous scratching, wild running, or bilateral jerking movements. Pups lacking phenotypic behavior exhibited high-rhythmic oscillations and status epilepticus by the dose of KA used. Radiolabeled AS-ODNs accumulated throughout the ipsilateral dorsal hippocampus. GluR2(B) but not GluR1(A) receptor protein was markedly reduced after GluR2(B) knockdown. In contrast, GluR1(A) knockdown reduced GluR1(A) but not GluR2(B) protein without change in behavior or morphology. Therefore, unilateral downregulation of hippocampal GluR2(B) but not GluR1(A) protein reduces the seizure threshold and survival of CA3 neurons in the immature hippocampus, possibly providing a novel partial seizure model in the developing rat.
p300/ CREB-binding protein (CBP) is a transcriptional coactivator for a plethora of transcription factors and plays critical roles in signal transduction pathways. We report that the inhibition of p300/CBP function in the Xenopus embryo abolishes non-neural tissue formation and, strikingly, initiates neural induction and primary neurogenesis in the entire embryo. The observed neuralization is achieved in the absence of anterior or posterior gene expression, suggesting that neural fate activation and anterior patterning may represent distinct molecular events. We further demonstrate that the neuralizing and anteriorizing activities of chordin and noggin are separable properties of these neural inducers. This study reveals that all embryonic cells possess intrinsic neuralizing capability and that p300/CBP function is essential for embryonic germ layer formation and neural fate suppression during vertebrate embryogenesis.
Kv3.1 and Kv3.2 K(+) channel proteins form similar voltage-gated K(+) channels with unusual properties, including fast activation at voltages positive to -10 mV and very fast deactivation rates. These properties are thought to facilitate sustained high-frequency firing. Kv3.1 subunits are specifically found in fast-spiking, parvalbumin (PV)-containing cortical interneurons, and recent studies have provided support for a crucial role in the generation of the fast-spiking phenotype. Kv3.2 mRNAs are also found in a small subset of neocortical neurons, although the distribution of these neurons is different. We raised antibodies directed against Kv3.2 proteins and used dual-labeling methods to identify the neocortical neurons expressing Kv3.2 proteins and to determine their subcellular localization. Kv3.2 proteins are prominently expressed in patches in somatic and proximal dendritic membrane as well as in axons and presynaptic terminals of GABAergic interneurons. Kv3.2 subunits are found in all PV-containing neurons in deep cortical layers where they probably form heteromultimeric channels with Kv3.1 subunits. In contrast, in superficial layer PV-positive neurons Kv3.2 immunoreactivity is low, but Kv3.1 is still prominently expressed. Because Kv3.1 and Kv3.2 channels are differentially modulated by protein kinases, these results raise the possibility that the fast-spiking properties of superficial- and deep-layer PV neurons are differentially regulated by neuromodulators. Interestingly, Kv3. 2 but not Kv3.1 proteins are also prominent in a subset of seemingly non-fast-spiking, somatostatin- and calbindin-containing interneurons, suggesting that the Kv3.1-Kv3.2 current type can have functions other than facilitating high-frequency firing.
Considerable evidence suggests that Ca(2+)-permeable AMPA receptors are critical mediators of the delayed, selective neuronal death associated with transient global ischemia and sustained seizures. Global ischemia suppresses mRNA and protein expression of the glutamate receptor subunit GluR2 and increases AMPA receptor-mediated Ca(2+) influx into vulnerable neurons of the hippocampal CA1 before the onset of neurodegeneration. Status epilepticus suppresses GluR2 mRNA and protein in CA3 before neurodegeneration in this region. To examine whether acute downregulation of the GluR2 subunit, even in the absence of a neurological insult, can cause neuronal cell death, we performed GluR2 &quot;knockdown&quot; experiments. Intracerebral injection of antisense oligodeoxynucleotides targeted to GluR2 mRNA induced delayed death of pyramidal neurons in CA1 and CA3. Antisense-induced neurodegeneration was preceded by a reduction in GluR2 mRNA, as indicated by in situ hybridization, and in GluR2 protein, as indicated by Western blot analysis. GluR2 antisense suppressed GluR2 mRNA in the dentate gyrus but did not cause cell death. The AMPA receptor antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxiline-2,3-dione (CNQX) and the Ca(2+)-permeable AMPA receptor channel blocker 1-naphthyl acetyl spermine protected against antisense-induced cell death. This result indicates that antisense-induced cell death is mediated by Ca(2+)-permeable AMPA receptors. GluR2 antisense and brief sublethal global ischemia acted synergistically to cause degeneration of pyramidal neurons, consistent with action by a common mechanism. These findings demonstrate that downregulation of GluR2 is sufficient to induce delayed death of specific neuronal populations.


The purpose of this study was to determine the effects of in vivo estrogen manipulations on mechanisms of endothelium-dependent vasodilation. Ovary-intact, ovariectomized (OVX), or OVX with estrogen replacement (OVX + E(2)) female Sprague-Dawley rats were studied (n = 8). Mesenteric arteries (approximately 300 microm) were isolated, cannulated, and pressurized to 60 mm Hg in an arteriograph containing bicarbonate buffer and vessel diameter was monitored. Concentration-response curves to the endothelium-dependent histamine H(1) agonist 2-thiazolylethylamine (2-TEA; 1 nM-100 microM) and to acetylcholine (1 nM-10 microM) were performed in preconstricted arteries. The effect of Nomega-nitro-L-arginine (LNA; 100 microM) or LNA + indomethacin (INDO) (10 microM) on agonist-induced vasodilation was determined. There was no difference between treatment groups in the sensitivity of mesenteric arteries to 2-TEA or acetylcholine. LNA produced a significant decrease in sensitivity to 2-TEA in arteries from ovary-intact and OVX + E(2) rats but not in those from OVX rats. The addition of INDO produced a small additional decrease in sensitivity to 2-TEA in arteries from ovary-intact rats, a significant decrease in OVX, and no shift in OVX + E(2). LNA + INDO produced a similar degree of inhibition of the 2-TEA response in the three treatment groups. In contrast, when acetylcholine was used, the decrease in sensitivity produced by LNA or LNA + INDO was similar in the three rat groups. We conclude that estrogen increases the nitric oxide component of endothelium-dependent dilation and decreases the cyclooxygenase component. These effects of estrogen appear to be agonist-specific. Our findings suggest that estrogen modulates cross talk between the nitric oxide synthase and cyclooxygenase pathways of vasodilation.
Morphine antinociception has been shown to be influenced significantly by genetic factors, now beginning to be identified in mice. A recent quantitative trait locus analysis revealed a significant statistical association between morphine antinociceptive magnitude and a region of mouse chromosome 9. This region contains the Htr1b gene, which encodes the 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin)-1B (5-HT(1B)) receptor subtype. To investigate the possibility that Htr1b represents the quantitative trait locus, C57BL/6 and DBA/2 inbred strains, the progenitors of the original quantitative trait locus mapping populations, were administered a novel 5-HT(1B) receptor antagonist (GR127935) concomitant with morphine. These mice are known to differ in morphine antinociceptive sensitivity on thermal pain assays (DBA/2 high; C57BL/6 low). GR127935 caused a dose-dependent antagonism (both reversal and prevention) of morphine antinociception in DBA/2 mice but had no effect in C57BL/6 mice. However, a 5-hydroxytryptamine-1A subtype (5-HT(1A)) receptor agonist, 8-hydroxydipropylaminotetralin, reversed morphine antinociception equally in the two strains. DBA/2 mice also exhibited significantly greater antinociception than did C57BL/6 mice from the administration of a 5-HT(1B) agonist, CGS12066. These data collectively support a role for 5-HT(1B) receptors in the mediation of morphine antinociception and support the contention that polymorphisms in the Htr1b gene may underlie individual differences in morphine sensitivity.
The magnocellular neurons of the supraoptic nucleus have been intensively studied because of their unique bursting and phasic activity patterns. While these can be explained in part by intrinsic membrane conductances, it is now also apparent that afferent inputs are important in sculpting and initiating the activity patterns. Modulation of these inputs, therefore, provides a powerful way to regulate magnocellular neuronal activity. The paper by Oliet &amp; Poulain in this issue of The Journal of Physiology provides evidence that adenosine may be such a modulator in that it acts presynaptically in the supraoptic nucleus (SON) to inhibit both excitatory and inhibitory synaptic currents onto magnocellular neurons. Furthermore, the authors were able to demonstrate an action of endogenous adenosine in the slice by blocking, with an A1-type antagonist, a progressive synaptic depression brought about by continuous afferent stimulation at 1 Hz over 2 min or more. This paper therefore adds to a compelling body of evidence that adenosine has transmitter action in the central nervous system (Dunwiddie, 1985). Several aspects of this study deserve comment and raise questions amenable to experimentation. Adenosine was equipotent in inhibiting IPSCs and EPSCs, thereby raising questions as to the consequences of adenosine action on the output of the nucleus. While it could be argued that intense excitatory inputs would be attenuated, the same would be true for inhibition, making the net effect rather minor. One possible effect could be to stabilize activity levels of the postsynaptic cell at levels conducive for the generation of intrinsic voltage-dependent activity patterns. Another possibility is that adenosine is simply acting to reduce overall metabolic activity; since the metabolic consequences of activity in the presynaptic terminal would be similar in excitatory and inhibitory terminals, it may be irrelevant as to the nature of the transmitter. It is also interesting that the maximum inhibition attained in response to adenosine is only 60 % for either excitatory or inhibitory inputs. This is in contrast to such presynaptic modulators as baclofen, acting at GABAB receptors, where there is 100 % attenuation of afferent evoked potentials (Pittman et al. 1998). Whether this is due to a distribution of adenosine receptors on only a limited number of afferent terminals, or whether it reflects a mechanism of action that is only partially effective in reducing the transmitter release is not known. For example, if adenosine receptors were coupled to only a subset of the calcium channels engaged in transmitter release, one might predict that only part of the transmitter release would be inhibited. However, data from the Oliet &amp; Poulain paper indicate that miniature EPSCs and miniature IPSCs are inhibited by adenosine; as most evidence indicates that TTX-resistant spontaneous currents in magnocellular neurons are calcium insensitive, this suggests that adenosine acts downstream of the calcium influx, perhaps by interfering with the transmitter release machinery (reviewed in Wu &amp; Saggau, 1997). It would also be interesting to determine whether the presynaptic A1 receptors identified here display a sensitivity to pertussis toxin pretreatment. While such receptors are known to be G-protein coupled, presynaptic receptors are often insensitive to inhibition by pertussis toxin. The identification of an action of endogenous adenosine required repetitive stimulation, perhaps because reuptake mechanisms at lower frequencies efficiently removed adenosine. The source of this endogenous adenosine is still unknown. While it could be released by a nucleoside transporter from either glial cells or neurons, another possibility is that it may be produced by metabolic breakdown of ATP (Cunha et al. 1998). ATP is known to be released in the SON from noradrenergic afferents (Buller et al. 1996) and there is also some evidence that it may be released from the magnocellu

The TrkB protein tyrosine kinase is a high affinity receptor for brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and neurotrophin-4 (NT-4). TrkB autophosphorylation occurs on five cytoplasmic tyrosines: Y484, Y670, Y674, Y675, and Y785. Using site directed mutagenesis, we have assessed the importance of TrkB tyrosines 484 and 785 in affecting TrkB-mediated signaling events leading to NIH 3T3 cell mitogenesis and survival. Mutation of TrkB tyrosine 484, while having no affect on BDNF-inducible PLCgamma and Cbl tyrosine phosphorylation, is essential for the phosphorylation of Shc, the complete activation of extracellular regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) and the induction of c-fos protein synthesis. In contrast, mutation of Y785 does not significantly affect BDNF-inducible Shc phosphorylation, ERK1/2 activation, or c-fos protein synthesis, but completely inhibits the tyrosine phosphorylation of PLCgamma and Cbl. These data indicate that both ERK-dependent and ERK-independent signaling pathways lead to BDNF-inducible mitogenesis and survival.

Background: With the implementation of thrombolysis, a large number of distinct pharmacological agents are now under consideration for the treatment of acute ischemic stroke, with disappoiting early results. Because the processes that ultimately lead to ischemic cell death involve a variety of pathophysiologic pathways, it is likely that combinations of agents may be necessary to positively affect neurological outcome. We review the general strategies under consideration for reduction of ischemic injury in the central nervous system, the types of possible interactions between compounds, and the experimental evidence showing effective combination therapies. Summary of Review: Reduction of ischemic injury has been attempted by the following pharmacologic mechanisms: thrombolysis, neuroprotection, and perfusion/reperfusion enhancers. There is experimental evidence that the combination of thrombolytic therapy with a neuroprotective agent is additive in some ischemic models, as is the combination of a thrombolytic with an agent that facilitates reperfusion (thromboxane A(2) receptor antagonist and neutrophil adhesion/activation inhibition). Combinations of neuroprotective agents such as glutamate antagonists and calcium channel antagonists may be additive, and other combinations of neuroprotective agents, such as a glutamate antagonist with a gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) agonist, have even shown synergism in a rat stroke model. It has also been suggested that lower doses of toxic drugs may be used together to yield a positive neurologic outcome. Successful demonstration of additive or synergistic effects of pharmacologic agents in ischemia will depend on (1) the model used (well below a maximal &quot;ceiling effect&quot;); (2) the timing of drug administration; (3) the doses of the drugs used; and (4) the primary neurologic endpoint used. (Infarction size requires prolonged survival.) Conclusions: It appears from preclinical studies that some combinations of pharmacotherapeutic agents may be beneficial in cerebral ischemia, but rigorous evaluation is needed before initiating clinical trials.

The hamster cheek pouch and its retractor muscle have provided valuable insights into microvascular physiology of an epithelial tissue and striated muscle, respectively. Nevertheless, the innervation of these vascular beds has not been resolved. This study has investigated the nature of autonomic and sensory innervation of these vascular beds and has tested whether it varies within or between tissues. Multiple-labelling immunohistochemistry identified autonomic and peptide-containing sensory nerve fibres. Presumptive sympathetic vasoconstrictor axons with immunoreactivity (IR) for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and neuropeptide Y (NPY) innervated feed arteries and arterioles (but not veins or venules) of the retractor and anterior (muscular) cheek pouch; these axons were absent from the posterior (epithelial) region of the cheek pouch, as confirmed by catecholamine fluorescence. Presumptive autonomic vasodilator axons with IR for vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) consistently innervated feed arteries and proximal arterioles of the cheek pouch, but generally not those of the retractor muscle nor distal arterioles of either tissue. Sparse presumptive sensory axons with IR for calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) and substance P were found near arterial and venous vessels in all regions of the cheek pouch and retractor muscle; CGRP-IR was also located in motor end plates associated with striated muscle fibres. Such regional differences in vascular innervation by autonomic and sensory neurons may selectively effect local and regional control of blood flow between and within vascular beds.
Recently discovered endomorphin-1 and -2 are the first endogenous agonists selective for the mu-opioid receptor. We examined the antinociceptive effect and enzymatic degradation of endomorphin-1 in the newborn rat spinal cord. Endomorphin-1 inhibited the binding of [3H][D-Ala2, N-Me-Phe4, Gly-ol5] enkephalin (DAMGO) to the membrane fraction of the newborn rat spinal cord as potently as DAMGO and morphine. Endomorphin-1 at 1-1,000 nM reduced the slow ventral root potential, which reflects noxious transmission in the isolated newborn rat spinal cord, concentration-dependently via the mu-opioid receptor. A similar effect was observed with endomorphin-2. The newborn rat spinal cord homogenate degraded endomorphin-1 in a 120-min incubation procedure, while it degraded [Leu5]enkephalin even in a 30-min incubation procedure. The degradation of endomorphin-1 was inhibited by actinonin but not by thiorphan. These results showed that in the newborn rat spinal cord, endomorphins had high affinity for the mu-opioid receptor and exerted mu-opioid-receptor-mediated inhibitory effects on noxious responses. Endomorphin-1 was degraded by peptidases, but slowly compared with [Leu5]enkephalin degradation, and the degrading enzymes were actinonin-sensitive peptidases.
The induction of long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD) at excitatory synapses in the hippocampus can be strongly modulated by patterns of synaptic stimulation that otherwise have no direct effect on synaptic strength. Likewise, patterns of synaptic stimulation that induce LTP or LTD not only modify synaptic strength but can also induce lasting changes that regulate how synapses will respond to subsequent trains of stimulation. Collectively known as metaplasticity, these activity-dependent processes that regulate LTP and LTD induction allow the recent history of synaptic activity to influence the induction of activity-dependent changes in synaptic strength and may thus have an important role in information storage during memory formation. To explore the cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying metaplasticity, we investigated the role of metaplasticity in the induction of LTP by theta-frequency (5-Hz) synaptic stimulation in the hippocampal CA1 region. Our results show that brief trains of theta-frequency stimulation not only induce LTP but also activate a process that inhibits the induction of additional LTP at potentiated synapses. Unlike other forms of metaplasticity, the inhibition of LTP induction at potentiated synapses does not appear to arise from activity-dependent changes in NMDA receptor function, does not require nitric oxide signaling, and is strongly modulated by beta-adrenergic receptor activation. Together with previous findings, our results indicate that mechanistically distinct forms of metaplasticity regulate LTP induction and suggest that one way modulatory transmitters may act to regulate synaptic plasticity is by modulating metaplasticity.
Perirhinal cortex and area TE are immediately adjacent to each other in the temporal lobe and reciprocally interconnected. These areas are thought to lie at the interface between visual perception and visual memory, but it has been unclear what their separate contributions might be. In three experiments, monkeys with bilateral lesions of the perirhinal cortex exhibited a different pattern of impairment than monkeys with bilateral lesions of area TE. In experiment 1, lesions of the perirhinal cortex produced a multimodal deficit in recognition memory (delayed nonmatching to sample), whereas lesions of area TE impaired performance only in the visual modality. In experiment 2, on a test of visual recognition memory (the visual paired comparison task) lesions of the perirhinal cortex impaired performance at long delays but spared performance at a very short delay. In contrast, lesions of area TE impaired performance even at the short delay. In experiment 3, lesions of the perirhinal cortex and lesions of area TE produced an opposite pattern of impairment on two visual discrimination tasks, simple object discrimination learning (impaired only by perirhinal lesions), and concurrent discrimination learning (impaired only by TE lesions). Taken together, the findings suggest that the perirhinal cortex, like other medial temporal lobe structures, is important for the formation of memory, whereas area TE is important for visual perceptual processing.
Functional MR (fMR) imaging offers unprecedented spatial and temporal resolution of brain cognition. The impact of this technology on neuroscience research is just now being explored. This article discusses blood oxygenation level-dependent-based fMR imaging. Topics include the origin of the MR-based signal, data acquisition and sequence dependence, and paradigm design issues--issues that need to be fully understood to properly design and interpret the fMR imaging experiment.
The effects of blood sugar level on transient focal brain ischemia were examined by consecutive diffusion-weighted EPI and (1)H echo planar spectroscopic imaging. A remote-controlled rat intraluminal suture middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) model was prepared. Animals were divided into three experimental groups: control, 1 g/kg, and 2 g/kg glucose groups (n = 6 for each). Saline or glucose was infused intraperitoneally 30 min prior to MCAO. The glucose-loaded groups showed increased lactate accumulation and marked decreases in average diffusion coefficient in the ischemic region during 40-min MCAO. These changes were correlated with blood sugar levels at the onset of MCAO. After reperfusion, all rats in the control and 1 g/kg groups recovered from the ischemic changes, but three rats with marked hyperglycemia in the 2 g/kg group showed irreversible changes. The adverse effects of hyperglycemia on transient focal brain ischemia were clearly demonstrated by sequential 2D images. Magn Reson Med 42:895-902, 1999.

We identified a Drosophila Apaf-1/CED-4 homolog gene, dapaf-1. Alternative splicing results in two dapaf-1 mRNA species, which encode distinct forms of caspase activator, Dapaf-1L (Apaf-1 type) and Dapaf-1S (CED-4 type). Distinct caspases were activated by these Dapaf-1 isoforms. Loss of Dapaf-1 function resulted in defective cytochrome c-dependent caspase activities and reduced apoptosis in embryo and in larval brain. Dapaf-1 activities were also involved in cell death induced by ectopic expression of reaper in the compound eye. These data suggest that Dapaf-1/cytochrome c-dependent cell death-inducing machinery is present in Drosophila, and the requirement of Dapaf-1/Apaf-1 in neural cell death is conserved through evolution.
There is increasing evidence suggesting that extremely low frequency electromagnetic fields (ELF-EMF) may influence several cell functions. Here the effects of ELF-EMF were studied on the expression of CD4+ cell surface receptors of human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) using fluorescence-activated cell sorter (FACScan). The expression of CD4+ in ELF-EMF exposed (24, 48 and 72 h) and not exposed PBMC were not statistically significant. In addition, a flow cytometric analysis was determined by using a fluorescent labeled antibody, at 24 and 72 h incubations. The amount of bound antibody was distributed with a slight difference in the ELF-EMF-exposed PBMC compared to the not exposed cells. Moreover, DNA CD4+ expression in PBMC strongly increased in exposed cells, resting and activated with Phytohaemaglutinin (PHA). When polymerase chain reaction was performed on CD4+ mRNA of PBMC an increase of CD4+ mRNA expression was found after the resting cells were exposed to ELF-EMF at 24 h compared to not exposed cells, while at 48 and 72 h no difference was found. In the cell cycle progression analysis, the PBMC exposed to ELF-EMF presented a significant increase of percentage expression of cell cycle progression in the S phase compared to not exposed cells; while in G1 and G2 phases, there were no differences. Our results provide new evidence that ELF-EMF can affect CD4+ expression in PBMC and describe an additional biological activity for ELF-EMF affecting CD4+ transcription and translation protein and the increase of the percentage expression of the cell cycle progression of the S phase.

Hypothalamic dopaminergic pathways are involved in the regulation of growth hormone and prolactin release from the anterior pituitary. Neuroendocrine studies in patients with multiple system atrophy (MSA), in whom there is a reported loss of hypothalamic dopamine, are few and contradictory. We therefore studied the neuroendocrine responses to 250 mg levodopa (plus 25 mg carbidopa) in subjects with MSA (n = 15), and compared them with age- and sex-matched healthy control subjects (n = 8). There were no significant differences in basal or post-levodopa levels of growth hormone (GH), growth hormone-releasing hormone (GHRH), glucose, insulin-like growth factor (IGF-1), or thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) between the groups. In patients with MSA, basal levels of prolactin were elevated (21.1 +/- 5.2 ng/mL [mean +/-standard error]) compared with control subjects (12.1 +/- 1.7, p &lt;0.05), and after L-dopa there was increased variability in prolactin response with less suppression compared with control subjects. In conclusion, in patients with MSA, the GHRH and GH responses to L-dopa were preserved and were similar to responses in age-matched control subjects. In contrast, there was impaired dopaminergic suppression of prolactin secretion. In patients with MSA this may represent a selective dysfunction, rather than generalized loss, of tubero-infundibular dopaminergic neurones.
Mutations in the dystrophin gene (DMD) and in genes encoding several dystrophin-associated proteins result in Duchenne and other forms of muscular dystrophy. alpha-Dystroglycan (Dg) binds to laminins in the basement membrane surrounding each myofibre and docks with beta-Dg, a transmembrane protein, which in turn interacts with dystrophin or utrophin in the subplasmalemmal cytoskeleton. alpha- and beta-Dgs are thought to form the functional core of a larger complex of proteins extending from the basement membrane to the intracellular cytoskeleton, which serves as a superstructure necessary for sarcolemmal integrity. Dgs have also been implicated in the formation of synaptic densities of acetylcholine receptors (AChRs) on skeletal muscle. Here we report that chimaeric mice generated with ES cells targeted for both Dg alleles have skeletal muscles essentially devoid of Dgs and develop a progressive muscle pathology with changes emblematic of muscular dystrophies in humans. In addition, many neuromuscular junctions are disrupted in these mice. The ultrastructure of basement membranes and the deposition of laminin within them, however, appears unaffected in Dg-deficient muscles. We conclude that Dgs are necessary for myofibre survival and synapse differentiation or stability, but not for the formation of the muscle basement membrane, and that Dgs may have more than a purely structural function in maintaining muscle integrity.
The long-term consequences of early prefrontal cortex lesions occurring before 16 months were investigated in two adults. As is the case when such damage occurs in adulthood, the two early-onset patients had severely impaired social behavior despite normal basic cognitive abilities, and showed insensitivity to future consequences of decisions, defective autonomic responses to punishment contingencies and failure to respond to behavioral interventions. Unlike adult-onset patients, however, the two patients had defective social and moral reasoning, suggesting that the acquisition of complex social conventions and moral rules had been impaired. Thus early-onset prefrontal damage resulted in a syndrome resembling psychopathy.
Early stages of visual processing may exploit the characteristic structure of natural visual stimuli. This structure may differ from the intrinsic structure of natural scenes, because sampling of the environment is an active process. For example, humans move their eyes several times a second when looking at a scene. The portions of a scene that fall on the fovea are sampled at high spatial resolution, and receive a disproportionate fraction of cortical processing. We recorded the eye positions of human subjects while they viewed images of natural scenes. We report that active selection affected the statistics of the stimuli encountered by the fovea, and also by the parafovea up to eccentricities of 4 degrees. We found two related effects. First, subjects looked at image regions that had high spatial contrast. Second, in these regions, the intensities of nearby image points (pixels) were less correlated with each other than in images selected at random. These effects could serve to increase the information available to the visual system for further processing. We show that both of these effects can be simply obtained by constructing an artificial ensemble comprised of the highest-contrast regions of images.
The early stages of visual processing provide excellent models for the study of how information is represented in, and processed by, the activity of neurons. The fact that the retina contains both non-spiking and spiking neurons leads us to frame questions about neural coding in a general fashion, rather than in a manner specific either to point processes or continuous signals. In particular, we ask about the role of the statistical structure of the response, the extent to which the neural representation is 'literal', and how information content can be estimated from laboratory data. The broad theme that emerges from a review of experimental data is that each stage of visual processing is accompanied by new features, including adaptive filtering, feedback, rectification and spike generation. These dynamical elements allow an increasingly rich set of strategies for the representation and processing of visual information at retinal and thalamic levels.
It is well known that learning and memory ability declines with aging. Age-related long-term changes in learning and memory ability in rats were investigated with the place navigation task and the allocentric place discrimination task (APDT) in a water maze using the same animals for each task. In a working memory place navigation task, aged animals could learn the location of the platform as well as when they were young, although strategy shifts were observed. In contrast, accuracy in the APDT significantly declined from 90% to 65% with aging. This impairment was ameliorated by an acetylcholine esterase inhibitor physostigmine at 22-23 months old. No amelioration was, however, detected in the same animals tested when they further aged to 26-27 months old. These results suggest that the APDT performance is sensitive to age-related memory deficits and that this may be due to the cholinergic dysfunction.
We used volumetric magnetic resonance imaging to examine sex differences in prefrontal tissue volumes of healthy aged and patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Healthy subjects had greater total prefrontal volume than AD, and men had greater total prefrontal volume than women (ps &lt; or = 0.02). This was true for both gray and white matter volumes. There were no interactions between group and sex for total prefrontal volume. An exploratory analysis of each group suggested that sex differences in both gray and white matter in healthy aging are not sustained in AD.
Objectmarking and object sniffing were assessed in an open field during six 5-min trials in unoperated Long-Evans rats and rats with ibotenate lesions of the hippocampus and/or neocortex. Object marking was higher in hippocampally lesioned rats than in unoperated rats. Object marking did not differ between neocortically lesioned rats and unoperated rats. Object sniffing durations and visits did not differ between unoperated and hippocampally lesioned rats nor between unoperated and neocortically lesioned rats. A new object elicited longer sniffing by both unoperated and hippocampally lesioned rats. Neocortically lesioned rats did not show this effect. There were no effects of the new object on marking. Computerized tracing of open field paths revealed a smaller perimeter track for hippocampally lesioned rats than for unoperated rats. This difference reflected distinct ambulatory patterns. Hippocampally lesioned rats made stereotyped hind-limb pivots at each corner, while normal rats used forelimb pivots or reared and reoriented adjacent to the wall. Rearing was lower in hippocampally lesioned rats, and higher in neocortically lesioned rats, than in unoperated rats. These data indicate that investigative object behavior (sniffing) is resistant to the effects of hippocampal damage, while object-elicited marking and motoric output may be profoundly altered. The data on sniffing suggest either that (1) the noticeability of the objects used elicited investigative behaviors in hippocampally damaged rats comparable to those of novelty-induced exploration in normal rats or (2) object exploration is not used to create a spatial map, and, hence, not disturbed by hippocampal loss. Object marking may require spatial locale information to be exercised normally, or may index the mediation of an olfactory-modulated behavioral pattern through the hippocampal system.
Latent inhibition (LI) is the deficit of conditioning resulting from repeated nonreinforced preexposure to a conditioned stimulus before its pairing with an unconditioned stimulus. There are cumulative data showing that large lesions of the hippocampal formation disrupt LI. However, the effects of selective lesions of the different components of the hippocampal formation have never been directly addressed in the same study and conditioning paradigm. The first experiment of the present study aimed at investigating the effects of excitotoxic lesions of the hippocampus, subiculum, or entorhinal cortex on LI in an &quot;off-baseline&quot;-conditioned emotional response procedure. Hippocampus or subiculum lesions had no effect on either LI or conditioning. In contrast, entorhinal cortex lesions disrupted LI without modifying conditioning. In Experiment 2, locomotor activity in a novel environment was assessed in the same rats. Whereas lesions of hippocampus increased locomotor activity, lesions of the subiculum or the entorhinal cortex were devoid of effect. Although both LI and habituation to novel environmental cues are thought to involve interactions between the hippocampal formation and the mesolimbic pathway, these results indicate a functional dissociation between the hippocampus and the entorhinal cortex.
Activation of alpha1-adrenergic receptors has been linked to the control of blood pressure, neuroendocrine secretion, reproductive behavior and mood. The present study describes the distribution of alpha1B-adrenergic receptor immunoreactivity in female rat brain regions involved in stress and neuroendocrine function. The pattern of immunolabeling seen resembles that obtained in previous in situ hybridization studies. Several hypothalamic areas that control pituitary function showed intense fiber and/or cell immunolabeling, including the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, the supraoptic nucleus, and the median eminence. Some regions such as the arcuate nucleus, the median eminence, and dorsal hypothalamus exhibit intense labeling of axonal varicosities, while other regions exhibit only perikarya immunolabeling. alpha1B-adrenergic receptor immunoreactivity was also observed in large pyramidal neurons of layer V of the cerebral cortex, the frontal cortex showing a particularly strong immunoreactivity. Virtually all thalamic regions were labeled, especially the lateral and ventral areas. In addition, labeled cells were present in hippocampus, the medial septum, the horizontal and vertical limbs of the diagonal band of Broca, and the caudate putamen. Finally, some midbrain and hindbrain regions important for motor function were immunoreactive. Because ligands specific for alpha1-adrenergic receptor subtypes are not available, the present immunocytochemical study not only addresses the subcellular and regional distribution of alpha1B-adrenergic receptors but may also provide clues about receptor subtype-specific function.
&quot;Peripheral-type&quot; benzodiazepine receptors (PTBRs) are highly expressed on the outer mitochondrial membrane of several types of glial cells. In order to further elucidate the nature of the early glial cell changes in thiamine deficiency, PTBR sites and PTBR mRNA were measured in thalamus, a brain structure which is particularly vulnerable to thiamine deficiency, of thiamine-deficient rats at presymptomatic and symptomatic stages of deficiency. PTBR sites were measured using an in vitro binding technique and the selective radio ligand [3H]-PK11195. PTBR gene expression was measured by RT-PCR using oligonucleotide primers based upon the published sequence of the cloned rat PTBR. Microglial and astrocytic changes in thalamus due to thiamine deficiency were assessed using immunohistochemistry and antibodies to specific microglial (ED-1) and astrocytic (GFAP) proteins respectively. Significant increases of [3H]-PK11195 binding sites and concomitantly increased PTBR mRNA were observed in thalamus at the symptomatic stage of thiamine deficiency, coincident with severe neuronal cell loss and increased GFAP-immunolabelling (indicative of reactive gliosis). Positron Emission Tomography using 11C-PK11195 could provide a novel approach to the diagnosis and assessment of the extent of thalamic damage due to thiamine deficiency in humans with Wernicke's Encephalopathy.

A method and model are described to quantify in vivo turnover rates and half-lives of fatty acids within brain phospholipids. These &quot;kinetic&quot; parameters can be calculated by operational equations from measured rates of incorporation of intravenously injected fatty acid radiotracers into brain phospholipids. To do this, it is necessary to determine a &quot;dilution factor&quot; lambda, which estimates the contribution to the brain precursor acyl-CoA pool of fatty acids released from phospholipids through the action of PLA1 or PLA2. Some calculated fatty acid half-lives are minutes to hours, consistent with active participation of phospholipids in brain function and structure. The fatty acid method can be used to identify enzyme targets of drugs acting on phospholipid metabolism. For example, a reduced brain turnover of arachidonate by chronic lithium, demonstrated in rats by the fatty acid method, suggests that this agent, which is used to treat bipolar disorder, has for its target an arachidonate-specific PLA2. In another context, when combined with in vivo imaging by quantitative autoradiography in rodents or positron emission tomography in macaques or humans, the fatty acid method can localize and quantify normal and modified PLA2-mediated signal transduction in brain.
There is increasing evidence to suggest that hepatic encephalopathy in acute liver failure is the result of altered glutamatergic function. In particular, the high affinity uptake of glutamate is decreased in brain slices and synaptosomes from rats with acute liver failure as well as by exposure of cultured astrocytes to concentrations of ammonia equivalent to those reported in brain in acute liver failure. Both protein and gene expression of the recently cloned and sequenced astrocytic glutamate transporter GLT-1 are significantly reduced in the brains of rats with acute liver failure. Decreased expression of GLT-1 in brain in acute liver failure results in increased extracellular brain glutamate concentrations which correlates with arterial ammonia concentrations and with the appearance of severe encephalopathy and brain edema in these animals. Ammonia-induced reductions in expression of GLT-1 resulting in increased extracellular glutamate concentrations could explain some of the symptoms (hyperexcitability, cerebral edema) characteristic of hepatic encephalopathy in acute liver failure.

A case of right frontal sinus tumor which at histology turned out to be a psammomatous meningioma is reported. The occurrence of primary meningiomas within the paranasal sinuses is rare and probably related to the transformation of embryonic arachnoid cell remnants or ectopic meningocytes derived from pluripotential mesenchymal cells. A search of the literature disclosed 30 further cases of meningiomas primarily involving the paranasal sinuses: a short analysis of the latters is presented and some of the distinctive features of these unusual tumors, as compared to their intracranial counterpart, are emphasized.
The paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus (PVH) serves as integrator and link between the neuroendocrine and autonomic nervous systems. Neuropeptide-Y (NPY)-producing neurons in the arcuate nucleus project to the PVH, where neurons expressing NPY Y1 receptor (Y1R) have been demonstrated. This projection has been suggested to be involved in the regulation of parameters related to energy metabolism, e.g. food intake and thermoregulation. The present study aimed at characterizing this pathway and chemically defining Y1R-expressing neurons by means of immunohistochemistry. The densely distributed NPY-immunoreactive (ir) terminals in the PVH co-stained for agouti gene-related protein (AGRP) mainly in the medial parvocellular regions, indicating an origin in the arcuate nucleus. This was in contrast to noradrenergic/adrenergic terminals in the PVH, which were less frequently seen to contain NPY-like immunoreactivity. Furthermore, AGRP-ir terminals were seen forming abundant close appositions on Y1R-ir cell bodies. Double staining revealed co-existence of Y1R-like immunoreactivity and immunoreactivities for thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) and, to a minor extent, cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript peptide in parvocellular neurons. No Y1R-like immunoreactivity was noted in parvocellular neurons expressing corticotropin-releasing hormone or in magnocellular neurons expressing vasopressin or oxytocin. The present results suggest that the arcuatoparaventricular NPY projection targets the TRH neurons preferentially via the Y1R, whereas the NPYergic regulation of corticotropinergic and magnocellular neurons may be relayed through other subtypes of NPY receptors. This study further defines the link between NPY-induced feeding and the hypothalamus-pituitary-thyroid axis.
When studying complex cognitive tasks using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) one often encounters weak signal responses. These weak responses are corrupted by noise and artifacts of various sources. Preprocessing of the raw data before the application of test statistics helps to extract the signal and can vastly improve signal detection. Artifact sources and algorithms to handle them are discussed. In an empirical approach targeted to yield an optimal recovery of the hemodynamic response, we implemented a test bed for baseline correction and noise-filtering methods. A known signal is modulated onto foreground patches obtained from event-related fMRI experiments. Quantitative performance measures are defined to optimize the characteristics of a given filter and to compare their results. Marked improvements in the sensitivity and selectivity are achieved by optimized filtering. Examples using real data underline the usefulness of this preprocessing sequence.
The Rickettsia are obligate intracellular parasites that are usually spread to humans by insects and typically produce vasculitides. The prototypic rickettsial disorder in the United States is Rocky Mountain spotted fever (RMSF). The differential diagnosis of RMSF and related disorders includes other conditions that produce vasculitis, most importantly meningococcemia. The rickettsial disorders are usually treated effectively with tetracycline derivatives.
Neurologic infection is a characteristic feature of spirochetes. The neurologic manifestations of spirochetal infection are a source of continuing public concern: Lyme neuroborreliosis in endemic areas, neurosyphilis in HIV infected patients, and neuroborreliosis during outbreaks of relapsing fever. These are reviewed in this article. The techniques for diagnosis and recommendations in the management of these infections are also discussed.
Axon growth inhibitors associated with myelin play an important role in the failure of axon regeneration in the adult mammalian central nervous system (CNS). Several inhibitors are present in the mature CNS. We now present a novel therapeutic vaccine approach in which the animals' own immune system is stimulated to produce polyclonal antibodies that block myelin-associated inhibitors without producing any detrimental cellular inflammatory responses. Adult mice immunized in this manner showed extensive regeneration of large numbers of axons of the corticospinal tracts after dorsal hemisection of the spinal cord. The anatomical regeneration led to recovery of certain hind limb motor functions. Furthermore, antisera from immunized mice were able to block myelin-derived inhibitors and promote neurite growth on myelin in vitro.
Recent studies suggest that the SH2/SH3 adaptor Dock/Nck transduces tyrosine phosphorylation signals to the actin cytoskeleton in regulating growth cone motility. The signaling cascade linking the action of Dock/Nck to the reorganization of cytoskeleton is poorly understood. We now demonstrate that Dock interacts with the Ste20-like kinase Misshapen (Msn) in the Drosophila photoreceptor (R cell) growth cones. Loss of msn causes a failure of growth cones to stop at the target, a phenotype similar to loss of dock, whereas overexpression of msn induces pretarget growth cone termination. Physical and genetic interactions between Msn and Dock indicate a role for Msn in the Dock signaling pathway. We propose that Msn functions as a key controller of growth cone cytoskeleton in response to Dock-mediated signals.
Neurotrophins and tyrosine receptor kinase (Trk) receptors are expressed in skeletal muscle, but it is unclear what functional role Trk-mediated signaling plays during postnatal life. Full-length TrkB (trkB.FL) as well as truncated TrkB (trkB.t1) were found to be localized primarily to the postsynaptic acetylcholine receptor- (AChR-) rich membrane at neuromuscular junctions. In vivo, dominant-negative manipulation of TrkB signaling using adenovirus to overexpress trkB.t1 in mouse sternomastoid muscle fibers resulted in the disassembly of postsynaptic AChR clusters at neuromuscular junctions, similar to that observed in mutant trkB+/- mice. When TrkB-mediated signaling was disrupted in cultured myotubes in the absence of motor nerve terminals and Schwann cells, agrin-induced AChR clusters were also disassembled. These results demonstrate a novel role for neurotrophin signaling through TrkB receptors on muscle fibers in the ongoing maintenance of postsynaptic AChR regions.
We report that the zebrafish mutation soulless, in which the development of locus coeruleus (LC) noradrenergic (NA) neurons failed to occur, disrupts the homeodomain protein Phox2a. Phox2a is not only necessary but also sufficient to induce Phox2b+ dopamine-beta-hydroxylase+ and tyrosine hydroxylase+ NA neurons in ectopic locations. Phox2a is first detected in LC progenitors in the dorsal anterior hindbrain, and its expression there is dependent on FGF8 from the mid/hindbrain boundary and on optimal concentrations of BMP signal from the epidermal ectoderm/future dorsal neural plate junction. These findings suggest that Phox2a coordinates the specification of LC in part through the induction of Phox2b and in response to cooperating signals that operate along the mediolateral and anteroposterior axes of the neural plate.
In the grasshopper CNS, serotonergic growth cones cross the midline early in development and initiate expression of serotonin uptake activity, or SERT. To test if the midline contains an activity that induces SERT, cuts were made that separated serotonergic cell bodies from the midline. SERT activity is completely lost when the midline is separated but is then rescued by bath-applied FGF2 (fibroblast growth factor 2), which can activate the heartless FGF receptor. heartless is expressed specifically in serotonergic neurons. A candidate FGF-like molecule was identified that is expressed in a subset of midline glia. SERT-expressing severed growth cones continue to migrate to their correct targets, which indicates that by the time SERT is activated, the serotonergic growth cones are committed to target-directed growth.

Cortical and thalamic neurones play a major role in the generation/expression of spike and wave discharges (SWDs), the main electroencephalographic (EEG) feature of absence seizures. The detailed mechanisms leading to this paroxysmal EEG activity, however, are still poorly understood. We have now made in vivo intracellular recordings from layer V cortical neurones of the facial motor cortex and from thalamocortical (TC) neurones of the ventroposteromedial and ventroposterolateral nuclei in a well established model of this disease: the Genetic Absence Epilepsy Rats from Strasbourg (GAERS). The main feature of the intracellularly recorded activity of TC neurones during spontaneous SWDs was the presence of rhythmic sequences of synaptic potentials consisting of an EPSP closely followed by 2-6 IPSPs. These rhythmic sequences were superimposed on a small tonic hyperpolarization that lasted for the whole duration of the SWD and was still present at potentials close to -85 mV. The rhythmic IPSPs, on the other hand, had a reversal potential of -68 mV, and always appeared as depolarizing events when recording with KCl-filled electrodes at -55 mV. Low frequency electrical stimulation of the corresponding cortical area evoked in TC neurones a short and a long lasting IPSP, whose waveforms were reminiscent of a GABA(A) and a GABA(B) IPSP, respectively. The main feature of the intracellular activity recorded in cortical neurones during spontaneous SWDs was the presence of rhythmic depolarizations. Their frequency was similar to the one of SWDs in the EEG, and was not affected by DC injection. The amplitude of the rhythmic depolarizations, however, increased following steady hyperpolarization of the neurone by DC injection. An increase in the apparent input resistance of cortical neurones was observed during SWDs compared to the inter-SWDs periods. Low frequency electrical stimulation of the contralateral striatum evoked in cortical neurones a short and a long lasting IPSP, whose waveforms were reminiscent of a GABA(A) and a GABA(B) IPSP, respectively. Our data indicate that there are no rhythmic GABA(B) IPSPs and low threshold Ca2+ potentials in GAERS TC neurones during SWDs, but rhythmic sequences of EPSP/IPSPs superimposed on a tonic hyperpolarization that might represent a long lasting GABA(B) IPSP. Further experiments are required to clarify the nature of the voltage waveform and the increase in input resistance observed in cortical neurones during spontaneous SWDs in GAERS.
The cognitive potential, P300, is a phenomenon frequently studied in relation to template matching of the brain. To understand the neurochemical mechanisms of its generation, we compared the effects of three antidepressants, fluoxetine, tianeptine and clomipramine after single and repeated application as well as after 1 week of withdrawal on the P300 and N200 waves in an auditory 'odd-ball' paradigm in three parallel groups of 10 healthy volunteers. Following single administration, both fluoxetine and clomipramine reduced (-39 +/- 14%, p &lt; 0.01) the peak amplitude of P300 at the Pz electrode. For fluoxetine and tianeptine, reduced amplitudes of 19 +/- 7% and 24 +/- 11%, respectively, were found following 8 days of treatment, 2 h after administration. However, for clomipramine no additional diminution was found on day 8 with respect to day 1. Topographic distributions tended to be significantly modified at the frontal scalp area 1 h after the tianeptine administration on day 8, whereas the postdosing changes induced by fluoxetine were localised in the midline and right centrotemporal scalp regions. Only minor reductions in peak latencies have been observed. It can be concluded that serotonin selective drugs have a slower onset of P300 amplitude decrease than clomipramine, which has additional effects on monoaminergic and on cholinergic systems. These results suggest that serotonin has a regulatory function in the neurotransmission of cerebral structures which are involved in the evaluation of stimulus relevance.
This study examined the effects of frontal lobe lesions on the control of movements during motor learning. We compared the performance of patients with unilateral frontal or temporal excisions and controls in two-dimensional aiming movements during adaptation to a transformed visuomotor mapping. Subjects tried to reach a fixed target on a graphics tablet using indirect visual control from a monitor in either: (1) the standard visuomotor mapping, (2) a full inversion of motor space preserving the axis of movement, or (3) a mirror-like inversion of one axis of motor space. In the standard mapping, all groups showed precise and rapid aiming movements. In the full inversion condition, frontal lobe patients showed a stronger tendency than others to initiate movements in the natural direction (capture errors) during adaptation. In the mirror-like inversion, frontal patients showed deficits in both movement initiation and movement corrections. These control deficits disappeared with practice. These data provide evidence for a critical role of frontal cortex in the attentional control of unpracticed movements in man.
Ziprasidone is a novel antipsychotic agent which binds with high affinity to 5-HT1A receptors (Ki = 3.4 nM), in addition to 5-HT1D, 5-HT2, and D2 sites. While it is an antagonist at these latter receptors, ziprasidone behaves as a 5-HT1A agonist in vitro in adenylate cyclase measurements. The goal of the present study was to examine the 5-HT1A properties of ziprasidone in vivo using as a marker of central 5-HT1A activity the inhibition of firing of serotonin-containing neurons in the dorsal raphe nucleus. In anesthetized rats, ziprasidone dose-dependently slowed raphe unit activity (ED50 = 300 micrograms/kg i.v.) as did the atypical antipsychotics clozapine (ED50 = 250 micrograms/kg i.v.) and olanzapine (ED50 = 1000 micrograms/kg i.v.). Pretreatment with the 5-HT1A antagonist WAY-100,635 (10 micrograms/kg i.v.) prevented the ziprasidone-induced inhibition; the same dose of WAY-100,635 had little effect on the inhibition produced by clozapine and olanzapine. Because all three agents also bind to alpha 1 receptors, antagonists of which inhibit serotonin neuronal firing, this aspect of their pharmacology was assessed with desipramine (DMI), a NE re-uptake blocker previously shown to reverse the effects of alpha 1 antagonists on raphe unit activity. DMI (5 mg/kg i.v.) failed to reverse the inhibitory effect of ziprasidone but produced nearly complete reversal of that of clozapine and olanzapine. These profiles suggest a mechanism of action for each agent, 5-HT1A agonism for ziprasidone and alpha 1 antagonism for clozapine and olanzapine. The 5-HT1A agonist activity reported here clearly distinguishes ziprasidone from currently available antipsychotic agents and suggests that this property may play a significant role in its pharmacologic actions.
Bias is common in mental-processing tasks as diverse as target recognition, heuristic estimation and social judgment. This paper holds that cognitive biases stem from the covert operation of neural modules, which evolved to subserve adaptive behavior. Such modules can be innate or forged early in development. Research shows links between (i) biases in cognitive tasks and (ii) neural devices, which may mediate them. Evidence is included from biases that arise spontaneously in artificial neural networks during recognition/decision tasks. Two linked propositions follow. First, there are continuities in biasing strategies across different levels of cognitive processing. Second, a proclivity for stereotyping and prejudice depends on the biased functions of lower-level neural modules that promote adaptations to social environments. The propositions rest on evidence of biological preparedness for stereotyping and of deficits in social judgment in patients with neurological lesions. To test such claims, research studies are suggested at the boundary of cognitive neuroscience and social psychology. Advantages of bias and prejudice as evolved tools may include their: (1) speeding of scrutiny and improving of target detection in changing or uncertain situations; (2) aiding of a rapid choice of practical short-term rather than optimal longer term plans; (3) allowing appraisal of a workable world by creating fairly stable categories; (4) motivating of exploration and completion of problem-solving which might otherwise be abandoned too early. The biological priming of social biases need not mean that they are immutable; understanding them could lead to better ways of controlling them.
Parasites and disease are increasingly recognized as agents of behavioral, ecological and evolutionary importance having a variety of influences on their hosts other than the more obvious pathological and immunological changes. Parasites can have significant behavioral effects even when parasitism is sub-clinical with these effects proposed to either benefit the parasite (parasite 'manipulation'), benefit the host, or to simply arise as side-effects of the infection (parasitic 'constraints'). However, until relatively recently little attention has been paid to the neuromodulatory substrates that mediate these behavioral changes. Ethopharmacology incorporates an evolutionary approach to the study of behavior with pharmacological analysis of neuromodulatory mechanisms. As such, this approach is appropriate for, and has been applied to, the analysis of the effects of ectoparasites (e.g. biting and blood-feeding flies) and endoparasites (e.g. protozoa, nematodes) on a number of behaviors (e.g. pain inhibition, learning and memory, responses to predators and anxiety, mate selection) in selected host-parasite systems. Ethopharmacology suggests a promising direction by which neuromodulatory mechanisms that underlie the effects of parasites on behavior, including that of humans, can be addressed.
We investigated whether genetic differences in various forms of intraspecific aggression and anxiety in four different genetic lines of mice (i.e. wild, outbred Swiss-CD1, inbred DBA/2 and inbred C57/BL6N) may reflect modifications in behavioral strategy. Experiments 1 and 2 used ethologically based paradigms to analyze aggressive and anxiety responses both in social (i.e. aggression) and non-social (i.e. novel environment exploration) contexts. In Experiment 3, an anxiolytic drug (chlordiazepoxide (CDP)) was used to examine possible differences in proximal mechanisms underlying anxiety-related behaviors. The data show that intrasexual aggression, infanticide and maternal aggressions are related and covarying. Genetic lines with the highest levels of intermale attack (i.e. Wild and Swiss-CD1) also have highest levels of infanticide, interfemale attack and maternal aggression but, interestingly, the lowest levels of anxiety. In fact, exploratory behavior is lower and risk assessment behavior markedly higher in DBA/2 and C57/BL6N mice (i.e. the less aggressive strains) compared to Swiss and Wild genetic lines. Although reproductive status influences anxiety levels in female mice, our findings show that (contrary to previous studies) lactating mice are more anxious than virgin females in terms of risk assessment activities. These data demonstrate the importance of studying behavior in a more ecologically-relevant context which emphasizes the function of behavior in a specific situation. Moreover, differential strain sensitivity to the behavioral effects of CDP suggests that genetic lines of mice may differ in the underlying mechanisms mediating behavior. It is therefore possible that artificial selection of different genotypes has resulted in differences in proximate mechanisms modulating the levels of aggression and anxiety, thereby leading to modification of social behavior. Overall, the results presented here suggest that subtle genetic alterations in specific underlying neural mechanisms are likely to cause profound effects on behavioral responses and their adaptive significance. Implications for behavioral neuroscience research that seeks to understand both the proximal and ultimate mechanisms of behavior are discussed.
Animal models of social stress represent a useful experimental tool to investigate the relationship between psychological stress, autonomic neural activity and cardiovascular disease. This paper summarizes the results obtained in a series of experiments performed on rats and aimed at verifying whether social challenges produce specific modifications in the autonomic neural control of heart rate and whether these changes can be detrimental for cardiac electrical stability. Short-term electrocardiographic recordings were performed via radiotelemetry and the autonomic input to the heart evaluated by means of time-domain heart rate variability measures. Compared to other stress contexts, a social defeat experience produces a strong shift of autonomic balance toward sympathetic dominance, poorly antagonized by vagal rebound, and associated with the occurrence of cardiac tachyarrhythmias. These effects were particularly severe when a wild-type strain of rats was studied. The data also suggest that the cardiac autonomic responses produced by different types of social contexts (dominant-subordinate interaction, dominant-dominant confrontation, social defeat) are related to different degrees of emotional activation, which in turn are likely modulated by the social rank of the experimental animal and the opponent, the prior experience with the stressor, and the level of controllability over the stimulus.

This article reviews the 1681 edition of The Anatomy of the Brain, by Thomas Willis (1621-1675), which was first published in Latin in 1664. Although description of the circulation at the base of the brain is part of this text, the majority of the book is devoted to functional anatomic features of the brain. This is an early attempt by Willis to translate cadaveric brain anatomic features into assigned behavioral and neurophysiological functions. Extensive comparisons are made between &quot;lower&quot; animals and human subjects, emphasizing the differences in their intellects. This unique document ushered in the era of modern neuroanatomy and laid the groundwork for future neuroanatomic and neurophysiological investigations.
We examined the distribution of cocaine and its metabolites benzoylecgonine (BE) and norcocaine (NOR) in pregnant Sprague-Dawley rats and fetuses following twice-daily subcutaneous (s.c.) injections of 20 mg/kg cocaine HCl from gestational day (GD) 8 through GD 20. On GD 21, the animals received a single injection and maternal trunk blood, fetal blood, fetal brains, and amniotic fluid were collected 5 min, 15 min, 30 min, 1 h, 2 h, 4 h, 8 h, or 12 h later for cocaine and metabolite analyses by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) with UV detection. The highest concentrations of cocaine and BE were detected in maternal plasma at 1 h and 4 h respectively. Cocaine peaked at 2 h and BE at 4 h in both fetal plasma and brain. In amniotic fluid, cocaine levels peaked at 2 h, but the highest BE levels were found at 8 h postinjection. An additional group of chronically treated dams was given both cocaine injections on GD 21 and sacrificed 2 h later. Benzoylecgonine concentrations were increased in fetal plasma, fetal brain, and amniotic fluid when compared with the 2-h results following a single cocaine treatment. Moreover, NOR, which had not been previously detected, was now measurable in the amniotic fluid.
Acute epidural hematoma not associated with head injury is rarely encountered and is known as spontaneous epidural hematoma. To our knowledge, only five cases with epidural hematoma after open-heart surgery have been published. Pathogenesis and preventive measures have not yet been determined. We report a case of such spontaneous epidural hematoma and consider the possible pathogenesis. A 12-year-old female received a radical operation for severe subaortic stenosis. The intraoperative course was uneventful except for massive hemorrhage which was adequately controlled. Postoperatively, she was moved to the CCU still not having aroused from anesthesia. Eleven hours later, it was found that her pupils were fixed and dilated. CT scan demonstrated a huge bifrontal epidural hematoma with disappearance of the basal cistern. Even though immediate emergency evacuation was performed, the patient died of acute brain swelling four days after the operation.
In the present study, chronic constrictive injury (CCI model) of the sciatic nerve or tight ligation of L5 and L6 spinal nerves (Chung model) produced both dynamic and static components of mechanical allodynia in rats. The two responses were detected, respectively, by lightly stroking the hind paw with cotton wool or application of pressure using von Frey hairs. Animals with spinal nerve ligation developed both types of responses at a faster rate compared to animals with the CCI. Morphine (1-3 mg/kg, s.c.) dose-dependently blocked static but not dynamic allodynia. In contrast, pregabalin (previously S-isobutylgaba and CI-1008) dose-dependently (3-30 mg/kg, p.o.) blocked both types of allodynia. In CCI animals, two administrations of capsaicin (100 microg/50 microl) into the plantar surface of the ipsilateral paw at 1-h intervals blocked the maintenance of thermal hyperalgesia without affecting either static or dynamic allodynia. The similar administration of a further two doses of capsaicin into the same animals blocked the maintenance of static allodynia without affecting the dynamic response. These data indicate that thermal hyperalgesia, static and dynamic allodynia are respectively signalled by C-, Adelta- and Abeta/capsaicin insensitive Adelta- primary sensory neurones. It is suggested that pregabalin possesses a superior antiallodynic profile than morphine and may represent a novel class of therapeutic agents for the treatment of neuropathic pain.
Although electrical stimulation of the precentral gyrus (MCS) is emerging as a promising technique for pain control, its mechanisms of action remain obscure, and its application largely empirical. Using positron emission tomography (PET) we studied regional changes in cerebral flood flow (rCBF) in 10 patients undergoing motor cortex stimulation for pain control, seven of whom also underwent somatosensory evoked potentials and nociceptive spinal reflex recordings. The most significant MCS-related increase in rCBF concerned the ventral-lateral thalamus, probably reflecting cortico-thalamic connections from motor areas. CBF increases were also observed in medial thalamus, anterior cingulate/orbitofrontal cortex, anterior insula and upper brainstem; conversely, no significant CBF changes appeared in motor areas beneath the stimulating electrode. Somatosensory evoked potentials from SI remained stable during MCS, and no rCBF changes were observed in somatosensory cortex during the procedure. Our results suggest that descending axons, rather than apical dendrites, are primarily activated by MCS, and highlight the thalamus as the key structure mediating functional MCS effects. A model of MCS action is proposed, whereby activation of thalamic nuclei directly connected with motor and premotor cortices would entail a cascade of synaptic events in pain-related structures receiving afferents from these nuclei, including the medial thalamus, anterior cingulate and upper brainstem. MCS could influence the affective-emotional component of chronic pain by way of cingulate/orbitofrontal activation, and lead to descending inhibition of pain impulses by activation of the brainstem, also suggested by attenuation of spinal flexion reflexes. In contrast, the hypothesis of somatosensory cortex activation by MCS could not be confirmed by our results.
Sympathetic efferents are involved in the pain of inflammation. Thus the control of these fibers is a matter of considerable importance. In this regard, postganglionic sympathetic fibers in normal rats express ionotropic glutamate receptors. The present study tests the hypothesis that inflammation leads to a significant increase in numbers of sympathetic efferents that express these receptors. In normal rats, the percentage of fibers in the L4 and L5 sympathetic gray rami immunostained with antibodies against subunits of NMDA (NMDAR1), AMPA (GluR1), or kainate (GluR5,6,7) receptors are 29, 5 and 5%, respectively. Forty-eight hours following injection of complete Freund's adjuvant into one hindpaw, the percentages of fibers in the ipsilateral gray rami immunostained for NMDA, AMPA or kainate are 57, 52 and 48%, respectively. Thus, following inflammation there is a two-fold increase in axons expressing NMDA receptors and a ten-fold increase in axons expressing AMPA or kainate receptors. These data suggest that postganglionic activity may be enhanced by glutamate receptor activation during inflammation. Increased activity in postganglionic fibers could lead to an increased release of NE and other substances in postganglionic efferents such as prostaglandins which in turn could enhance nociceptor activity. This change in glutamate receptor organization offers a possible site of pharmacological intervention for the maladaptive symptoms that often arise following peripheral inflammation.
Placebo analgesia was produced by conditioning trials wherein heat induced experimental pain was surreptitiously reduced in order to test psychological factors of expectancy and desire for pain reduction as possible mediators of placebo analgesia. The magnitudes of placebo effects were assessed after these conditioning trials and during trials wherein stimulus intensities were reestablished to original baseline levels. In addition, analyses were made of the influence of these psychological factors on concurrently assessed pain and remembered pain intensities. Statistically reliable placebo effects on sensory and affective measures of pain were graded according to the extent of surreptitious lowering of stimulus strength during the manipulation trials, consistent with conditioning. However, all of these effects were strongly associated with expectancy but not desire for relief. These results show that although conditioning may be sufficient for placebo analgesia, it is likely to be mediated by expectancy. The results further demonstrated that placebo effects based on remembered pain were 3 to 4 times greater than those based on concurrently assessed placebo effects, primarily because baseline pain was remembered as being much more intense than it actually was. However, similar to concurrent placebo effects, remembered placebo effects were strongly associated with expected pain levels that occurred just after conditioning. Taken together, these results suggest that magnitudes of placebo effect are dependent on multiple factors, including conditioning, expectancy, and whether analgesia is assessed concurrently or retrospectively.
Obsessions and compulsions frequently accompany motor and vocal tics in Gilles de la Tourette syndrome (GTS). The occurrence of motor tics and compulsions helps to understand the neurobiological foundation of repetitive behavior patterns. Based on a review of the literature and our own studies in GTS, we suggest that simple motor tics are caused by a stimulus-dependent disinhibition of stereotypies encoded in the head of the caudate, while more complex compulsions are associated with a serotonergic disinhibition of frontocortical-striatal circuits in GTS and obsessive-compulsive disorder. These findings indicate that obsessions and compulsions do not simply result from a lack of cortical control of phylogenetically primitive behavior patterns. Rather, an activation of the orbitofrontal cortex seems to be essential for the induction of anxiety and the disinhibition of subcortical stereotypies. The neurobiological findings may help to clarify why compulsions differ from cultural rituals. Cultural rituals are performed cyclically, represent important social conflicts and are usually not accompanied by fear or anxiety. Obsessions, on the other hand, seem to be generated in a self perpetuating cycle of cortico-subcortical activation and are associated with anxiety and ineffective repetition of stereotypies.
Acute social defeat (SD) leads to transient and persistent physiological and behavioral changes. We examined the effects of acute SD on territorial urine marking and ultrasonic courtship vocalizations in DBA/2 male mice. Both behaviors are considered androgen dependent and are influenced by social status, with dominant mice displaying more of both behaviors. In Experiment 1, male mice that received SD displayed prolonged inhibition of territorial urine marking, relative to nondefeated control mice (NOSD). In addition, territorial marking increased with repeated tests. In Experiment 2, male mice that received 3 successive days of SD displayed fewer ultrasonic courtship vocalizations at 30 min. post-SD1 and 30 min. post-SD2, relative to NOSD mice. In Experiment 2, we also observed decreased territorial marking 4 weeks post-SD. In sum, SD induced prolonged inhibition of territorial marking, but had only transient effects on ultrasonic courtship vocalizations, suggesting that different mechanisms may mediate the maintenance of these behaviors.
The acute consequences of a social aversive stimulus (defeat) on the autonomic control upon the electrical activity of the heart were measured and compared to those observed in three nonsocial stress paradigms, namely restraint, shock-probe test, and swimming. Electrocardiograms were recorded from rats via radiotelemetry, and the autonomic neural control of the heart was evaluated via measures of heart rate and heart rate variability, such as the average R-R interval (RR), the standard deviation of RR (SD), the coefficient of variance (SD/RR), and the root-mean-square of successive R-R interval differences (r-MSSD). Although all stressors induced significant reductions of average R-R interval, the effect of defeat was significantly larger (p &lt; 0.05). The social stimulus also determined a significant decrease in the variability indexes (p &lt; 0.01 for all), whereas in the other stress conditions they were either unchanged or increased (SD/RR during restraint, p &lt; 0.05; SD and SD/RR during swimming, p &lt; 0.05 and p &lt; 0.01). Cardiac arrhythmias (mostly ventricular premature beats, VPBs) were far more frequent during defeat than during the other challenging situations (p &lt; 0.01), with an average of 33.5 +/- 6.5 VPBs per 15-min test recording. These data suggest that during defeat autonomic control was shifted toward a sympathetic dominance, whereas in rats exposed to nonsocial stressors, although significant heart rate accelerations were also found, sympathovagal balance was substantially maintained. These differences in autonomic stress responsivity explain the different susceptibility to ventricular arrhythmias and indicate that a social challenge can be far more detrimental for cardiac electrical stability than other nonsocial aversive stimuli.
We have previously hypothesized that corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) is involved in the regulation of physiological waking. Central administration of CRH receptor antagonists reduces spontaneous waking in the rat. Some of the responses to central administration of CRH receptor antagonists may be mediated by mechanisms involving the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, either by direct actions on the hypothalamus or by actions at the level of the pituitary due to leakage of the antagonists from the cerebrospinal fluid to blood. To further clarify the role of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis as a mediator of responses to CRH receptor blockade, we administered intravenously into freely behaving rats in their home recording cages two specific CRH receptor antagonists, astressin or alpha-helical CRH, and determined subsequent changes in waking and sleep. Our results indicate that both antagonists reduce spontaneous waking, but with different time courses. Astressin, a potent antagonist of pituitary CRH receptors, reduces waking during postinjection hours 9-10, whereas high doses of alpha-helical CRH reduce waking only during the first postinjection hour. These results indicate that some effects of CRH on sleep-wake behavior may be meditated by pituitary CRH receptors.
Pituitary cell lines (GGH3) expressing the GnRH receptor (GnRHR) were used to investigate the effect of GnRHR concentration on the ability of a GnRH agonist to activate second messenger systems. Four different strategies were utilized to generate cells expressing functionally different concentrations of receptors: (1) transient transfection with different concentrations of wild type GnRHR into GH3 cells, (2) utilization of two cell lines derived from a common stably transfected line expressing high (4,209 +/- 535 receptors/cell) or low (1,031 +/- 36 receptors/cell) concentrations of GnRHR, (3) co-incubation of GGH3-1' cells with a GnRH agonist (Buserelin) and a GnRH antagonist to compete for binding sites, and (4) photo-affinity binding to GnRHR with a GnRH antagonist to change effective receptor concentration. A range of receptor concentrations (1,000-8,000 receptors/cell) were generated by these techniques. Inositol phosphate (IP) and cAMP accumulation were quantified to assess the effect of receptor concentration on receptor-effector coupling. Under all four paradigms, the efficacy and potency of Buserelin stimulated IP production was dependent on receptor concentration. In contrast, Buserelin stimulated cAMP release was relatively unchanged at varying concentrations of GnRHR. This suggests that the cellular concentration of GnRHR affects the induction of cell signaling pathways. These results demonstrate that a single ligand-receptor-complex can differentially activate second messenger systems and present a mechanism by which multiple physiological endpoints can be differentially regulated by a single hormone/receptor interaction.
Hepatic encephalopathy (HE) is a neuropsychiatric disorder that occurs in both acute and chronic liver failure. Although the precise pathophysiologic mechanisms responsible for HE are not completely understood, a deficit in neurotransmission rather than a primary deficit in cerebral energy metabolism appears to be involved. The neural cell most vulnerable to liver failure is the astrocyte. In acute liver failure, the astrocyte undergoes swelling resulting in increased intracranial pressure; in chronic liver failure, the astrocyte undergoes characteristic changes known as Alzheimer type II astrocytosis. In portal-systemic encephalopathy resulting from chronic liver failure, astrocytes manifest altered expression of several key proteins and enzymes including monoamine oxidase B, glutamine synthetase, and the so-called peripheral-type benzodiazepine receptors. In addition, expression of some neuronal proteins such as monoamine oxidase A and neuronal nitric oxide synthase are modified. In acute liver failure, expression of the astrocytic glutamate transporter GLT-1 is reduced, leading to increased extracellular concentrations of glutamate. Many of these changes have been attributed to a toxic effect of ammonia and/or manganese, two substances that are normally removed by the hepatobiliary route and that in liver failure accumulate in the brain. Manganese deposition in the globus pallidus in chronic liver failure results in signal hyperintensity on T1-weighted Magnetic Resonance Imaging and may be responsible for the extrapyramidal symptoms characteristic of portal-systemic encephalopathy. Other neurotransmitter systems implicated in the pathogenesis of hepatic encephalopathy include the serotonin system, where a synaptic deficit has been suggested, as well as the catecholaminergic and opioid systems. Further elucidation of the precise nature of these alterations could result in the design of novel pharmacotherapies for the prevention and treatment of hepatic encephalopathy.
The dominant neurochemicals involved in encoding sensory information are the amino acid neurotransmitters, glutamate, gamma-aminobutyrate (GABA) and glycine, which mediate fast point-to-point synaptic transmission in the retina and other parts of the central nervous system. The relative abundance of these neurochemicals and the existence of neuronal and glial uptake mechanisms as well as a plethora of receptors support the key role these neurochemicals play in shaping neural information. However, in addition to subserving neurotransmitter roles, amino acids subserve normal metabolic,cellular functions, may be precursors for other amino acids, and may also be associated with protein synthesis. Post-embedding immunocytochemistry of small molecules has allowed the characterization of multiple amino acid profiles within subpopulations of neurons in the vertebrate retina. The general theme emerging from these studies is that the retinal through pathway uses glutamate as its neurotransmitter, and the lateral elements, GABA and/or glycine. Co-localization studies using quantitative immunocytochemistry have shown that virtually all neuronal space can be accounted for by the three dominant amino acids. In addition, co-localization studies have demonstrated that there are no purely aspartate, glutamine, alanine. leucine or ornithine immunoreactive neurons and thus these amino acids are likely to act as metabolites and may sustain glutamate production through a multitude of enzymatic pathways. The mapping of multiple cellular metabolic profiles during development or in degenerating retinas has shown that amino acid neurochemistry is a sensitive marker for metabolic activity. In the degenerating retina, (RCS retina), neurochemical anomalies were evident early in development (from birth), even before photoreceptors mature at PND6-8 implying a generalized metabolic dysfunction. Identification of metabolic anomalies within subpopulation of neurons is now possible and can be used to investigate a multitude of retinal functions including amino acid metabolic and neurochemical changes secondary to external insult as well as to expand our understanding of the intricate interrelationship between neurons and glia.
The sequence of neurophysiological processes elicited in the auditory system by a sound is analyzed in search of the stage at which the processes carrying sensory information cross the borderline beyond which they directly underlie sound perception. Neurophysiological data suggest that this transition occurs when the sensory input is mapped onto the physiological basis of sensory memory in the auditory cortex. At this point, the sensory information carried by the stimulus-elicited process corresponds, for the first time, to that contained by the actual sound percept. Before this stage, the sensory stimulus code is fragmentary, lacks the time dimension, cannot enter conscious perception, and is not accessible to top-down processes (voluntary mental operations). On these grounds, 2 distinct stages of auditory sensory processing, prerepresentational and representational, can be distinguished.



Event-related potentials (ERPs) were recorded during a go/no-go reaction time (RT) task in which subjects responded to rare target tones and withheld response to frequent tones. In a predictable condition, a rare visual stimulus signalled the impending occurrence of a rare tone, whereas a frequent visual stimulus signalled that a frequent tone would be presented. The rare visual stimuli elicited P3, associated with violations of expectations, whereas the rare tones, being predictable, did not. The rare tones elicited the mismatch negativity (MMN), a component associated with preattentive deviance detection, despite the fact that they were expected. RT was faster in the predictable condition than in another condition in which the tones were not predictable. The P3 and RT data indicate, respectively, that subjects anticipated and were ready to respond to the target tones. The MMN result indicates that immediately before target tones, the preattentive system underlying the MMN was set for frequent tones, being unaffected by the information available to the higher order system. Thus, the higher order cognitive system associated with P3 and the lower order cognitive system associated with the MMN were prepared simultaneously for opposite events.
Using positron emission tomography, visual presentation of sentences was shown to cause increased regional cerebral blood flow relative to word lists in the left lateral anterior superior and middle temporal gyri, attributable to cognitive processes that occur during sentence comprehension in addition to those carried out during word comprehension. Additional comparisons showed that repeating words (in a different context, when subjects did not attempt to learn the initial lists) led to significant patterns of both increased blood flow (left putamen and right caudate) and decreased blood flow (left posterior temporal lobe). Increases are argued to reflect retrieval of memory traces, whereas decreases reflect diminished necessity for processing of input. A decrease in the left inferior parietal lobe was attributable to other factors.






The ability to remember is perhaps the most significant and distinctive feature of our mental life. We are who we are largely because of what we have learned and what we remember. In turn, impairments in learning and memory can lead to disorders that range from the moderately inconvenient benign senescent forgetfulness associated with normal aging to the devastating memory losses associated with Alzheimer disease. Of the various, higher-cognitive abilities that human beings possess, such as reasoning and language, memory is the only one that can be studied effectively in simple experimental organisms that are accessible to genetic manipulation, such as snails, flies and mice. In these organisms, the effectiveness of genetic approaches in the study of memory has improved significantly in the past five years. Below we review these advances.
Quantitative assessment of umbilical venous blood velocity with Doppler ultrasound (US) must cope with the coiled structure of the vein inside the cord. Both an experimental and a theoretical approach showed remarkable variations in the insonation angle when the probe was moved along the vein, provided the inclination between the Doppler probe and the cord was kept constant. Inaccurate signal processing, stochastic variability and flow disturbances could, however, mask the influence of the geometry. The above hypotheses were assessed by investigating five cords in vitro a few hours after delivery from normal pregnancies at term. The Doppler signal was sampled at different sites along each cord and the mean Doppler shift estimated by FFT spectral analysis, both directly and through the noise rejection D'Alessio's algorithm, which proved effective in improving the Doppler shift estimate in condition of low signal-to-noise ratio (SNR).
The famous polemics between I. P. Pavlov and K. S. Lashley in the pages of the &quot;Psychological Review&quot; in the thirties is discussed in this paper. The particular significance of this polemics for development of contemporary neuroscience is underlined, since the essentially novel concept of the brain activity mechanisms has been advanced and intelligence nature has been advanced on the basis of the synthesis of the two opposing theories, the localizationalism and equipotentialism.
Ivan Petrovitch Pavlov significantly changed and developed our knowledge of the brain functions and of the behaviour by his fundamental experimental and theoretical work on the physiology and pathophysiology of the higher nervous activity. He was one of the scientists who prepared the development of neuroscience in our century. During the Pavlovian Conference, 1950 in Moscow Stalin and the Communist Party tried to dogmatize his and his pupil's fundamental theories. But his pupils continued to develop Pavlovian ideas in open discussions with representatives of other schools in a very creative way, opening the doors for a system approach to understand the integrative functional systems of brain and behavior. Pavlov emphasized the high plasticity of the central nervous system. He investigated the complex functional systems within the brain and between the organism and its environment, and the designed models for pathology of the higher nervous activity. During his last years, Pavlov freed himself from the strong deterministic view and characterized the organism and its environment as a self-organizing system.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) during a muscle contraction induces a motor-evoked potential (MEP) in the skeletal muscle followed by a cessation of EMG activity, the cortical silent period (C-SP). The C-SP is a useful parameter to indicate the activation of the motor system. Accurate determination of the C-SP can be important in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), a progressive disorder of unknown etiology characterised by degeneration of upper and lower motor neurons. The aim of this study was to evaluate the sensitivity of C-SP as an index of motor system involvement, in ten patients affected by ALS, with a mean duration of the disease: 5. 5+/-3.4 months, by means of an objective computer-aided method to measure C-SP and its relationship to stimulation intensity. C-SP duration was significantly reduced in ALS patients compared to controls at low stimulation intensity corresponding to an MEP threshold increased by 15%. While in less severely affected patients C-SP duration approached control values at higher stimulation intensities (25 and 50% upper MEP threshold), in more severe ALS subjects it showed a further reduction, allowing them to be discriminated.
Five to ten percent of patients with ALS have a family history of the disease, inheritance is usually autosomal dominant. Mutations of the SOD1 gene were first identified in a proportion of families with ALS by Rosen et al. The SOD1 gene encodes the enzyme copper zinc superoxide dismutase. Patients were studied from throughout the UK, where more than one individual in the family had ALS. Clinical history and examination of the individual and family were obtained, and DNA extracted from leukocytes of whole blood samples. Mutations were identified by standard sequencing methods. To date, 12 different mutations of SOD1 have been identified in 17 different families, representing around 20% of all ALS families studied. The mutations were mainly single base substitutions - H48Q, G72S, G93R, G93V, E100G, D101N, D101G, G108V, I113T, D125H, I149T - and also an insertion mutation - 132insTT - leading to a premature stop codon. The mutations were present in exons 2-5. We did not identify mutations in exon 1, although these have been identified by others in different patient samples. We have identified SOD1 mutations in around 20% of UK families with ALS studied. This is similar to that reported in other populations. Mutations have now been identified in all exons of SOD1. The individual mutations do not precisely predict disease severity, and generally it is difficult to give a specific prognosis based on the individuals' SOD1 mutations. We continue to investigate the possible pathogenic mechanisms of the SOD1 mutations. We have studied the neuropathology in patients with SOD1 mutations. We are also performing linkage studies to identify the genes involved in the 80% of families where an SOD1 mutation has not been identified.
The purpose of the present study was to determine whether corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) is involved in mediating the expression of conditioned defeat in male Syrian hamsters. The present study examined the effects of two different competitive CRF receptor antagonists on the expression of conditioned defeat. Specifically, Experiment 1 examined whether peripheral administration of CP-154,526, a specific non-peptide CRF1 receptor antagonist, would reduce the expression of conditioned defeat. Experiment 2 examined whether D-Phe CRF(12-41), a nonspecific CRF1/CRF2 receptor antagonist, infused directly into the brain, would reduce the expression of conditioned defeat. The results revealed that i.p. injections of CP-154,526 did not reduce the expression of conditioned defeat, whereas i.c.v. injections of D-Phe CRF(12-41) successfully reduced the expression of conditioned defeat. The duration of submissive/defensive behaviors in hamsters that received the high dose of D-Phe CRF(12-41) was significantly less than that exhibited by animals that received a vehicle control. The present data suggest that central CRF may be involved in mediating the expression of conditioned defeat and other behavioral responses to stressful stimuli.
A simple and rapid enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) has been developed to provide an alternative to cell counting to detect increases in cell survival in primary neuronal cultures. This sensitive assay has the advantage of being less time consuming and labour intensive than cell counting, can be used to quantify cell survival and is more accurate than estimation methods of counting. The ELISA uses an antibody raised to GAP-43, a growth-associated protein which is strongly expressed by developing and regenerating neurones. The effects of nerve growth factor (NGF), neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) on GAP-43 immunoreactivity in dissociated primary cultures of rat and chick dorsal root ganglia have been compared to results obtained by cell counting. Data show that human NGF produced the greatest increase in GAP-43-immunoreactive neurones in both species; this increase in immunoreactivity correlated well with the increased survival shown by cell count data. Results prove that the ELISA can also be used to accurately detect small changes in cell survival as seen with NT-3 and BDNF, or potentiation of the effects obtained with the trophic factor NT-3. In conclusion, this ELISA may be a useful tool to detect neurotrophic effects of unknown agents or novel neurotrophins.
A new class of brain implant technology was developed that allows the simultaneous recording of voltage signals from many individual neurons in the cerebral cortex during cognitive tasks. The device allows recording from 49 independent positions spanning a 2 x 2-mm region of neural tissue. The recording electrodes are positioned in a square grid with 350 microm spacing, and each microelectrode can be precisely independently vertically positioned using a hydraulic microdrive. The device utilizes ultrafine, sharp iridium microelectrodes that minimize mechanical disturbance of the region near the electrode tip and produce low noise neuronal recordings. The total weight of this device is less than 20 g, and the device is reusable. The implant device has been used for transdural recordings in primary somatosensory and auditory cortices of marmosets, owl monkeys, and rats. On a typical day, one-third of the microelectrodes yield well-discriminated single neuron action potential waveforms. Additional array electrodes yield lower amplitude driven multiunit activity. The average signal-to-noise ratio of discriminated action potential waveforms 6 months after implantation was greater than 9. Simple design alternatives are discussed that can increase the number of electrodes in the array and the depths at which dense array recordings can be achieved.
The molecular structure of human ocular lens fiber cell plasma membranes was examined directly using small angle x-ray diffraction approaches. A distinct biochemical feature of these membranes is their high relative levels of free cholesterol; the mole ratio of cholesterol to phospholipid (C/P) measured in these membranes ranges from 1 to 4. The organization of cholesterol in this membrane system is not well understood, however. In this study, the structure of plasma membrane samples isolated from nuclear (3.3 C/P) and cortical (2.4 C/P) regions of human lenses was evaluated with x-ray diffraction approaches. Meridional diffraction patterns obtained from the oriented membrane samples demonstrated the presence of an immiscible cholesterol domain with a unit cell periodicity of 34.0 A, consistent with a cholesterol monohydrate bilayer. The dimensions of the sterol-rich domains remained constant over a broad range of temperatures (5-20 degrees C) and relative humidity levels (31-97%). In contrast, dimensions of the surrounding sterol-poor phase were significantly affected by experimental conditions. Similar structural features were observed in membranes reconstituted from fiber cell plasma membrane lipid extracts. The results of this study indicate that the lens fiber cell plasma membrane is a complex structure consisting of separate sterol-rich and -poor domains. Maintenance of these separate domains may be required for the normal function of lens fiber cell plasma membrane and may interfere with the cataractogenic aggregation of soluble lens proteins at the membrane surface.
Glutamate is an important excitatory amino acid in central nervous system. We developed a method for in vivo, continuous and automatic monitoring of brain extracellular glutamate, as well as other amino acids in anesthetized rat. This method involves the use of microdialysis perfusion technique and a high-performance liquid chromatography system equipped with a fluorescence detector. The microdialysate (perfused at a flow-rate of 1 microl/min) was on-line derivatized with o-phthaldehyde (perfused at 2 microl/min) through a mixing tee prior to the injection onto the HPLC column. The efficiency of this on-line derivatization was equivalent to that performed with an off-line manner. The effect of cerebral ischemia (2 h) and reperfusion (2 h) in brain cortex of anesthetized rats was monitored using this method. In addition to glutamate, extracellular concentrations of other amino acids, such as aspartate, glutamine, glycine, taurine and gamma-aminobutyric acid, were also simultaneously monitored with this on-line method. Since monitoring of extracellular amino acids by microdialysis perfusion is intensively used in neuroscience investigations, this simple and convenient method would be useful in the future applications.
It has been suggested that calcium that is stored in nerve terminals can be released via activation of ryanodine receptors and this source of calcium could serve to modulate evoked transmitter release. Calcium influx via voltage dependent calcium channels could lead to calcium induced calcium release via ryanodine receptors in neuronal tissue. This additional source of calcium could contribute to the total calcium that is available for transmitter release or it could result in having a negative feedback action on calcium influx and transmitter release. We examined the effect of blocking and activating the ryanodine receptors on quantal transmitter release at the rat neuromuscular junction. Intracellular recording techniques were used to monitor end-plate potentials and miniature end-plate potentials. The data supports the view that intracellular calcium released via ryanodine receptors suppresses calcium influx leading to depressed quantal release.
The pathophysiology of multiple sclerosis is reviewed, with emphasis on the axonal conduction properties underlying the production of symptoms, and the course of the disease. The major cause of the negative symptoms during relapses (e.g. paralysis, blindness and numbness) is conduction block, caused largely by demyelination and inflammation, and possibly by defects in synaptic transmission and putative circulating blocking factors. Recovery from symptoms during remissions is due mainly to the restoration of axonal function, either by remyelination, the resolution of inflammation, or the restoration of conduction to axons which persist in the demyelinated state. Conduction in the latter axons shows a number of deficits, particularly with regard to the conduction of trains of impulses and these contribute to weakness and sensory problems. The mechanisms underlying the sensitivity of symptoms to changes in body temperature (Uhthoff's phenomenon) are discussed. The origin of 'positive' symptoms, such as tingling sensations, are described, including the generation of ectopic trains and bursts of impulses, ephaptic interactions between axons and/or neurons, the triggering of additional, spurious impulses by the transmission of normal impulses, the mechanosensitivity of axons underlying movement-induced sensations (e.g. Lhermitte's phenomenon) and pain. The clinical course of the disease is discussed, together with its relationship to the evolution of lesions as revealed by magnetic resonance imaging and spectroscopy. The earliest detectable event in the development of most new lesions is a breakdown of the blood-brain barrier in association with inflammation. Inflammation resolves after approximately one month, at which time there is an improvement in the symptoms. Demyelination occurs during the inflammatory phase of the lesion. An important mechanism determining persistent neurological deficit is axonal degeneration, although persistent conduction block arising from the failure of repair mechanisms probably also contributes.
In this study we investigated effects of acute and chronic ethanol exposure on carbachol-induced activator protein-1 (AP-1) DNA binding in rat cerebellar granule cells. Acute ethanol application did not alter, whereas chronic ethanol exposure potentiated the carbachol-induced AP-1 DNA binding. The protein composition of the AP-1 transcription factor complex activated by carbachol stimulation of muscarinic receptors was analysed in control and chronic ethanol-exposed cells using a supershift assay with specific antibodies against c-Fos, Fos B, c-Jun, Jun B and Jun D proteins. Supershift analysis revealed that the carbachol-induced AP-1 complex was composed predominantly of Jun D and c-Fos. The composition of the AP-1 complex activated by carbachol in chronic ethanol-exposed cells did not differ from control. These findings indicate that chronic ethanol treatment can modulate carbachol-induced AP-1 DNA binding activity in cerebellar granule cells.

In the visual cortex, as elsewhere, N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) play a critical role in triggering long-term, experience-dependent synaptic plasticity. Modifications of NMDAR subunit composition alter receptor function, and could have a large impact on the properties of synaptic plasticity. We have used immunoblot analysis to investigate the effects of age and visual experience on the expression of different NMDAR subunits in synaptoneurosomes prepared from rat visual cortices. NMDARs at birth are comprised of NR2B and NR1 subunits, and, over the first 5 postnatal weeks, there is a progressive inclusion of the NR2A subunit. Dark rearing from birth attenuates the developmental increase in NR2A. Levels of NR2A increase rapidly (in &lt;2 hr) when dark-reared animals are exposed to light, and decrease gradually over the course of 3 to 4 days when animals are deprived of light. These data reveal that NMDAR subunit composition in the visual cortex is remarkably dynamic and bidirectionally regulated by sensory experience. We propose that NMDAR subunit regulation is a mechanism for experience-dependent modulation of synaptic plasticity in the visual cortex, and serves to maintain synaptic strength within an optimal dynamic range.
This study investigated cross-modal interactions in spatial attention by means of recording event-related brain potentials (ERPs). Noise bursts and light flashes were presented in random order to both left and right field locations separated by 60 degrees in free-field. One group of subjects was instructed to attend selectively to the noise bursts (attend-auditory group), and a second group attended only to the flashes (attend-visual group). On different runs attention was directed to either the right or left field stimuli of the designated modality. In the attend-auditory group, noise bursts at the attended location elicited a broad, biphasic negativity (Nd) beginning at 70 ms. The cross-modal spatial attention effect on the auditory ERPs in the attend-visual group was very similar in morphology, but the Nd was reduced in amplitude relative to the intra-modal effect. In the attend-visual group, flashes at the attended location elicited enhanced early (100-200 ms) and late (200-350 ms) ERP components relative to unattended-location flashes. The cross-modal effect in the attend-auditory group included small but significant enhancements of early components of the visual ERPs. It was concluded that spatial attention has a multi-modal organization such that the processing of stimuli at attended locations is facilitated at an early, sensory level, even for stimuli of an unattended modality.
Young adult subjects attended selectively to brief noise bursts delivered in free-field via central and peripheral arrays of four loudspeakers each that were arranged along a semi-circle extending from the midline to 90 degrees right of center. Frequent &quot;standard&quot; stimuli (90%) and infrequent &quot;target/deviant&quot; stimuli (10%) of increased bandwidth were delivered at a fast rate in random order and equiprobably from all eight speakers. In separate runs, the subject's task was to selectively attend to the center or rightmost speaker, and to press a button to the infrequent &quot;target&quot; stimuli occurring at the designated (spatial) location. Behavioral detection rates and concurrently recorded event-related potentials (ERPs) indicated that auditory attention was deployed as a finely tuned gradient around the attended source. The attentional gradients were steeper for the central than the peripheral array, indicating that attention can be more sharply focused upon sound sources directly in front of the listener. The ERP data suggested that selection for location is accomplished in two distinct stages, with an initial broadly tuned filtering, followed by a more narrowly focused selection of attended-location deviants.
To investigate the relationship between activity in sensory cortex, and the experience of sensory stimuli, functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) of temporal cortex was performed while subjects indicated their perception of speech sounds combined with noise. Auditory cortex activation was found to decrease with decreasing stimulus saliency. Speech stimuli presented at an intensity level near auditory threshold produced significant activation in temporal cortex even when subjects did not report perception of stimuli. These dissociations between simultaneously recorded neurophysiological and psychophysical measures suggest that stimulus-evoked cortical activity does not necessarily produce conscious perception.
Pyramidal cell ontogenesis and basilar dendritic differentiation were evaluated concomitantly with ganglioside expression and distribution in ferret cerebral cortex. Layer V neurons began basilar dendritogenesis on postnatal day 1 (P1) with a peak in dendritic arborization occurring at P21. Layer II/III neurons, in contrast, were in early stages of basilar dendritic differentiation at P14, resulting in a complex dendritic arbor at P28. High performance thin-layer chromatography showed numerous changes in ganglioside expression during cortical development, including a decline of GM2 in the mature cortex. The temporal expression and cellular distribution of GM2, GD2, GM1, GD3, and GM3 gangliosides in developing cerebral cortex were determined by immunocytochemistry. GM2 immunoreactivity (IR) was most prominent in layer V neurons between P1 and P21 and in layer II/III neurons between P14 and P28 with staining diminishing to near absent levels in the adult. GM2-IR appeared as punctate structures within the somatodendritic domain and by electron microscopy was shown to be membrane-bound vesicles often in close proximity to the plasmalemma. Expression of GM2, but not of other gangliosides studied, followed two well-documented developmental neurogenic gradients: ventrolateral to dorsomedial and radial (inside-first outside-last). Onset of significant GD2 expression in layer II/III and V pyramidal cells was delayed until P14 and persisted in adult neocortex. GD3 was localized most prominently to glial-like cells, whereas GM1 was primarily localized to white matter. The close temporal and spatial concordance of GM2-IR in cortical pyramidal neurons undergoing dendritogenesis is consistent with its proposed role as a modulator of dendritic differentiation.
Several regions of the brain, including the horizontal limb of the diagonal band of Broca (HDB), contain neurons that are responsive to changes in local temperature. These neurons are hypothesized to participate in thermoregulation and sleep-wake control. The HDB contains a large number of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) terminals, and it has many neurons that utilize GABA as a neurotransmitter. Therefore, in this study we characterized the in vitro effects of the GABAA receptor agonist muscimol (0.5, 0.25, 0.1 and 0.0625 microM doses) and the GABAA receptor antagonist bicuculline (3.0 and 1.0 microM doses) on the firing rate and thermosensitivity of HDB neurons. Of the 51 neurons recorded in a submerged slice chamber, 53% were warm sensitive, 45% were temperature insensitive and 2% were cold sensitive. All neurons exposed to bath applied muscimol exhibited reductions in both firing rate and thermosensitivity. Muscimol induced reductions were maintained for at least 20 min after washout. Neurons exposed to bicuculline had no change in firing rate or thermosensitivity. However, after bicuculline washout there were reductions in both firing rate and thermosensitivity. These findings support the hypothesis that GABAA receptor induced inhibition of HDB thermosensitive neurons can modulate both thermoregulation and sleep-wake control.
Miniature end-plate potentials (MEPPs) were focally recorded from the cytoplasmic surface of electrocytes in isolated columns of the Torpedo electric organ. Double electrode studies showed that the junctional area was restricted to 12 micron2. MEPP frequencies ranging from 1/min to 400/s were controlled with electrode advancement against the cytoplasmic surface. Stable membrane potentials and noise levels indicated constant intracellular, focal recording conditions. Focal MEPPs are only 1-3 mV and MEPP amplitudes smoothly decreased with an increase in MEPP frequency which demonstrates a process that meters quantal size at moment of release. Thus, release if not from a prepackaged store. MEPP interval analyses showed that events are weakly interactive at low frequencies and periodic at higher frequencies. The interdependency of MEPP amplitudes and intervals indicates that the mechanism of release controls both rate and quantal size. We propose that the amplitude and frequency dependencies of MEPPs at the Torpedo nerve-electrocyte junction are best described by a membrane channel (e.g., mediatophore, Isral and Dunant, Neurochem. Int. 28 (1996) 1-9) that meters transmitter from a presynaptic store.

Caspase-9 is one caspase upstream of caspase-3 and its activation is stimulated by Apaf-1/cytochrome c and inhibited by Akt signals. BAD phosphorylation by Akt is an essential step for growth factor-mediated inhibition of caspase activation. Recently, it was shown that human caspase-9 is phosphorylated by Akt and that its protease activity is reduced. To clarify the molecular mechanism of regulation of caspase-9 activation in neuronal apoptosis, we isolated two alternative splicing products of mouse caspase-9, caspase-9L and caspase-9S, from a P19 embryonal carcinoma cell cDNA library. Curiously, the Akt phosphorylation sites and motifs found in human caspase-9 were absent in both mouse caspase-9L and -9S. Mouse caspase-9 was not phosphorylated by activated Akt in vitro. Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction analysis showed that the absent Akt motif is not limited to caspase-9 expressed in P19 embryonal carcinoma cells but also occurs in caspase-9 expressed in mouse, rat, and monkey. These results suggest that inhibition of caspase-9 activation by Akt-dependent phosphorylation is not generalized across species.


Ketamine is usually administered as a racemate, which is composed of the two isomers, S(+)-and R(-)-ketamine. Recently, we have shown that racemic ketamine at clinical relevant concentrations specifically inhibits the transporter proteins for norepinephrine, dopamine and serotonin heterologously expressed in HEK-293 cells (Nishimura, M., Sato, K., Okada, T., Yoshiya, I., Schloss, P., Shimada, S. and Tohyama, M., Ketamine inhibits monoamine transporters expressed in human embryonic kidney 293 cells. Anesthesiology, 88 (1998) 768-774). Since ketamine interacts stereoselectively with most of its targets, we now investigated whether ketamine also exhibits stereoselectivity on the monoamine transporters. Only the dopamine transporter was found to be stereoselectively inhibited with S(+)-ketamine being almost eight times more potent than R(-)-ketamine (Ki = 46.9 microM for S(+)-ketamine, 390 microM for R(-)-ketamine). In contrast, ketamine exhibited no stereoselectivity for norepinephrine and serotonin transporters.
The retinohypothalamic tract (RHT) is a neural pathway through which photic time cues are delivered directly to the mammalian circadian pacemaker in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN). Although the excitatory amino acid glutamate is the primary neurotransmitter in the RHT, other substances such as substance P (SPq also have been suggested to play a role. The present study tested the hypothesis that SP participates in retinohypothalamic transmission and selectively modulates either N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) or non-NMDA receptor-mediated neurotransmission. The SP antagonist L-703,606 depressed the excitatory postsynaptic current (EPSC) evoked by optic nerve stimulation in SCN neurons in rat hypothalamic slices. The SP antagonist also had a similar depressive effect on the NMDA and non-NMDA receptor-mediated components of the EPSC. These results suggest that SP is an excitatory neuromodulator contributing to the expression of both the NMDA and non-NMDA receptor-mediated components of retinohypothalamic transmission.
Brief exposure to conditions that generate free radicals inhibits synaptic transmission in hippocampal slices, most likely via a presynaptic mechanism. Because other physiologically stressful conditions that generate free radicals, such as hypoxia or ischemia, stimulate the release of adenosine from brain slices, we determined whether increases in extracellular adenosine mediate the presynaptic inhibition of excitatory transmission induced by peroxide treatment. Simultaneous addition of hydrogen peroxide (0.01%) and ferrous sulfate (100 microM) resulted in a &gt;80% decrease in synaptic potentials recorded in the CA1 region of hippocampal slices of adult male rats. Treatment with theophylline (200 microM), a non-selective adenosine receptor antagonist, or 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine (100 nM), a selective adenosine A1 receptor antagonist, prior to and during hydrogen peroxide superfusion prevented the inhibition. These results demonstrate that acute exposure to hydrogen peroxide induces an adenosine-mediated decrease in synaptic transmission in hippocampal slices.
This work was designed to elucidate the possible involvement of endogenous endomorphin-I (EM1) in analgesia induced by electroacupuncture of low or high frequencies. Taking radiant heat tail flick latency (TFL) as an indication of nociception, rats were subjected to intrathecal (i.t.) injection of 10 microl antiserum against EM1 (EM1-AS) or normal rabbit serum (NRS, as control) and then followed by 2 or 100 Hz electroacupuncture stimulation for 30 min. The analgesia induced by 2 Hz electroacupuncture was attenuated by i.t. injection of EM1-AS at 1:10 and 1:100 but not at 1:1000 dilution. No such suppressive effect was observed for 100 Hz EA analgesia when EM1-AS was injected i.t. at any dilutions. These results indicate that EM1 is involved in 2 Hz but not 100 Hz electroacupuncture analgesia at spinal level.
Many studies have implicated corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) as a mediator of stress-induced decreases in food intake. However, urocortin, sauvagine, and urotensin, other members of the family of CRH-like molecules, have also been shown to be potent inhibitors of food intake. This raises the possibility that a CRH-related molecule might also be responsible for stress-induced anorexia. We therefore examined the effects of three chronic stressors, repetitive daily restraint, turpentine abscess, and surgical stress, upon food intake in wildtype and CRH-deficient mice created by targeted inactivation of the CRH gene. We have found that both genotypes have similar basal food intake which initially decreases to the same degree following initiation of each stress paradigm. Food intake also recovers following the same time course and to the same degree in both genotypes. Therefore, CRH is not necessary for decreases in food-intake induced by the chronic stressors examined in this study.
During mammalian development, electrical activity promotes the calcium-dependent survival of neurons that have made appropriate synaptic connections. However, the mechanisms by which calcium mediates neuronal survival during development are not well characterized. A transcription-dependent mechanism was identified by which calcium influx into neurons promoted cell survival. The transcription factor MEF2 was selectively expressed in newly generated postmitotic neurons and was required for the survival of these neurons. Calcium influx into cerebellar granule neurons led to activation of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase-dependent phosphorylation and activation of MEF2. Once activated, MEF2 regulated neuronal survival by stimulating MEF2-dependent gene transcription. These findings demonstrate that MEF2 is a calcium-regulated transcription factor and define a function for MEF2 during nervous system development that is distinct from previously well-characterized functions of MEF2 during muscle differentiation.
Recent studies have shown that the fruitfly Drosophila exhibits behavioral sensitization in response to repeated exposure to cocaine; the exploitation of this genetically tractable model system for studying cocaine addiction is already providing new clues that may help understand the process of drug addiction in man.
Agonists at group III glutamate metabotropic receptors, such as L-serine-O-phosphate, have pro- and anti-convulsant activities in rodent models. We have used intracerebroventricular administration to test a novel group III agonist, (R,S)-4-phosphonophenylglycine (PPG), that is preferential for mglu(8), against sound-induced seizures in DBA/2 mice. Tonic and clonic seizures are abolished at 15 min (ED(50s) 0.14 [0.04-0.4] nmol, and 3.4 [2.1-5.6] nmol, respectively). The protection against tonic and clonic seizures by 20 nmol PPG is complete for 4 h, diminished by 6 h, and absent by 10 h. In contrast, L-Serine-O-phosphate gives only partial protection against sound-induced clonic seizures for 15-30 min (ED(50) 79 [45-139] nmol) in DBA/2 mice. In genetically epilepsy prone rats sound-induced seizures were blocked 5-60 min after the bilateral administration of PPG, 5-10 nmol, into the inferior colliculus. These data suggest that the mglu(8) receptor is a potential target for novel antiepileptic drugs.
In previous studies, 18-methoxycoronaridine, a novel iboga alkaloid congener, has been reported to decrease the self-administration of morphine, cocaine, ethanol and nicotine, and to attenuate naltrexone-precipitated signs of morphine withdrawal. In the present study, the nature of the interaction between 18-methoxycoronaridine and morphine was further investigated. Using in vivo microdialysis, 18-methoxycoronaridine pretreatment (40 mg/kg i.p., 19 h beforehand) was found to markedly inhibit morphine-induced (5 mg/kg, i.p.) dopamine release in the nucleus accumbens and striatum; 18-methoxycoronaridine also enhanced morphine-induced increases in extracellular levels of dopamine's metabolites. These effects, which were more prominent in the nucleus accumbens than in the striatum, suggest that 18-methoxycoronaridine selectively interferes with morphine-induced dopamine release, without altering morphine-induced stimulation of dopamine synthesis. In intravenous morphine self-administration experiments, the effects of acute 18-methoxycoronaridine treatment (40 mg/kg, p.o.) were assessed in rats responding for one of several different unit infusion dosages of morphine (0.01-0.16 mg/kg/infusion). 18-Methoxycoronaridine produced a downward shift in the entire morphine dose-response curve without any displacement to the left or right. These results suggest that 18-methoxycoronaridine reduced the reinforcing efficacy of morphine without altering its apparent potency. Together, the microdialysis and self-administration data suggest that 18-methoxycoronaridine profoundly alters mechanisms crucial to the development and maintenance of opioid addiction.

For several decades melanocortins have been implicated in the modulation of brain function. More recently, this idea has been supported by the identification and cloning of melanocortin (MC) receptors in the nervous system. MCs stimulate axonal growth in fetal neural tissue or in neural cell lines in culture. This feature was utilized in screening their neurotrophic or neuroprotection potential in animal studies of nervous system disease (peripheral nerve and spinal cord trauma, toxic and metabolic neuropathies, EAN, EAE, etc.). Some of these effects may be mediated by MC4 receptor activation, although as yet unknown receptors may also be involved (for instance, protection by Org 2766). To what extent MC-nervous system effects are related to known effects of MCs in skin- and neuro-immune systems, remains to be discovered. Nevertheless, it is of interest to note that activation of brain MC4 receptors profoundly affects care behavior for the body surface (skin and fur). The excessive grooming response in rodents exhibits a remarkable functional correlation with MSH activity in a brain-skin axis.


Mammalian genomes are in constant jeopardy of invasion by prokaryotic DNA sequences because of their extensive exposure to bacteria; however, mammalian genomes appear to be protected from horizontal transmission of bacterial DNA. Transgenic mice provide a convenient model system for investigating the capacity of mammalian genomes in vivo to retain, silence, and/or reject foreign DNAs. We have previously reported that bacterial genes encoding the Lac repressor (lacI) are subject to sequence-dependent methylation and silencing in the transgenic mouse. In this paper, we report that bacterially derived lacI transgenes, but not their mammalian counterparts, can also be eliminated from the somatic cell DNA of affected animals. This somatic instability is heritable, strain-dependent, and conferred in cis. Our data are consistent with a model of genome surveillance in the mouse which can lead to loss of foreign DNA and which may be analogous to restriction-modification systems that maintain the integrity of the bacterial genome.
Dopamine is co-localized with 5-hydroxytryptamine in a ventromedially located plexus in the lamprey spinal cord and reduces Ca2+ currents in motoneurons that express high-voltage activated Ca2+ currents of the N-, L- and P/Q-types. Blockade of L- and P/Q- type channels leaving N-type channels intact reduced but did not prevent the inhibition of the Ca2+ current by dopamine. Dopamine also reduced the L-type current potentiated by BAY K 8644. During simultaneous blockade of N-type and L-type currents, dopamine was unable to affect the remaining Ca2+ current. In addition, blockade of G-proteins abolished the dopaminergic modulation. The inhibition was unaffected by depolarizing prepulses. Thus, dopamine mediates inhibition of N- and L-type currents through a G-protein-dependent, voltage-independent pathway in lamprey spinal motoneurons.
The effect of visual contrast on sentence reading was investigated using event-related brain potentials (ERPs). Under the low contrast condition semantic integration as reflected in the N400 ERP component was delayed to some degree. The left anterior negativity (LAN) reflecting initial syntactic processes, in contrast, seemed to change its characteristics as a function of visual input. In the high contrast condition the LAN preceded the P200 component whereas in the low contrast condition it was present after this component. These ERP-data from word-by-word sentence reading together with prior results from sentence listening suggest that the physical characteristics of the input must fall within a certain optimal range to guarantee ERP-effects of fast initial syntactic processes.
Recent evidence suggests that the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) of the brainstem is a collection of neuronal clusters having different neurochemical characteristics and efferent projection patterns. To gain further insight into the neuroanatomic organization of the DRN, neuronal populations projecting to the superior colliculus (SC) were mapped in a highly visual rodent, the Mongolian gerbil (Meriones unguiculatus). Retrograde tracers Fluoro-Gold (FG) or cholera toxin subunit-B (CTB) were injected into the superficial layers of the SC, and serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) -positive cells were identified by using immunocytochemistry in the FG-injected animals. Based on its projections to the SC, the DRN was divided into five rostrocaudal levels. In the rostral and middle levels of the DRN, virtually all FG-filled cells occurred in the lateral DRN, and 36-55% of 5-HT-immunoreactive (5-HT-ir) cells were also double-labeled with FG. Caudally, FG-filled cells occurred in the lateral, ventromedial, and interfascicular DRN; and 44, 12, and 31% of 5-HT-ir cells, respectively, were also FG-filled. The dorsomedial DRN contained only a small proportion of FG-filled cells at its most caudal level and was completely devoid of FG-filled cells more rostrally. The CTB-injected animals showed a similar distribution of retrogradely labeled cells in the DRN. Topographically, the dorsal tegmental nucleus and the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus appeared to be closely associated with 5-HT-ir cells in the caudal DRN. These results suggest that the lateral DRN and the ventromedial/interfascicular DRN may be anatomically, morphologically, and neurochemically unique subdivisions of the gerbil DRN.
The dorsolateral caudate-putamen nucleus (CPN) and the nucleus accumbens (NAc) shell, respectively, are involved in many motor and limbic functions that are affected by activation of the 5-hydroxytryptamine2A receptor (5HT2AR) and the N-methyl-D-aspartate subtype of glutamate receptor (NMDAR). We examined the functional sites for 5HT2AR activation and potential interactions involving the NMDAR subunit NR1 (NMDAR1) within these striatal regions. For this examination, sequence-specific antipeptide antisera against these receptors were localized by electron microscopic dual-labeling immunocytochemistry in the rat brain. In the dorsolateral CPN and the NAc shell, the 5HT2AR-labeled profiles were mainly dendrites, but somata and axons were also immunoreactive. The neuronal somata contained round unindented nuclei that are typical of spiny striatal neurons, although few dendritic spines were 5HT2AR immunolabeled. In all neuronal profiles, the 5HT2AR labeling was primarily associated with cytoplasmic organelles and more rarely was localized to synaptic or nonsynaptic plasma membranes. Colocalization of 5HT2AR and NMDAR1 was seen primarily in somata and dendrites. Significantly greter numbers of 5HT2AR- or 5HT2AR- and NMDAR1-containing dendrites were seen in the dorsolateral CPN than in the NAc shell. As compared with 5HT2AR, NMDAR1 labeling was more often observed in dendritic spines, and these were also more numerous in the CPN. These results indicate that 5HT2A and NMDA receptors are coexpressed but differentially targeted in single spiny striatal neurons and are likely to play a major role in control of motor functions involving the dorsolateral CPN.
Vitamin E (alpha-gamma-tocopherol) is an important component in biological membranes. A decrease in its concentration imposes structural and functional damage to the cells. The object of this study was to assess the effect of a graded dietary vitamin E (E) intake on E concentration in specific regions of the brain, and its influence on vitamin C levels and neurological function. Following a 2-month period, rats supplemented with 5, 30, 60, 250 or 500 mg all-rac-alpha-tocopherol-acetate/kg diet (mg E/kg diet) exhibited a significant increase of E concentration in brain and peripheral tissues. However, while blood and liver showed a dose response increase in E concentration which correlated well with the different levels of E in the diet, the central nervous system (CNS) followed the same pattern of increase of vitamin E in brain tissue only when the diet was supplemented with 5, 30, or 60 mg E/kg diet. No further increase in E concentration was observed when the diet was supplemented with 250 or 500 mg E/kg diet. Similarly, the heart tissue showed a significant increase in its E concentration when the was enriched with 5, 30, or 60 mg E/kg diet, with no further increases at 250 or 500 mg. Vitamin C concentration in brain cortex and cerebellum, plasma, liver, and heart was reduced in the groups receiving 250 or 500 mg E/kg diet. Compared to the low E group, rats supplemented with the 60, 250 or 500 mg E/kg diet showed a significant enhancement in striatal dopamine (DA) release, but no differences were observed among the latter three groups.
We completed a genome-wide scan for susceptibility loci for bipolar affective disorders in families derived from a rather homogeneous population in the Province of Qubec. The genetic homogeneity of this population stems from the migration of founding families into this relatively isolated area of Qubec in the 1830s. A possible founder effect, combined with a prevalence of very large families, makes this population ideal for linkage studies. Genealogies for probands can be readily constructed from a population database of acts of baptism and marriage from the early 1830s up to the present time (the BALSAC register). We chose probands with a DSM III diagnosis of bipolar affective disorder and who may be grouped within large families having genealogical origins with the founding population of the Saguenay-Lac-St-Jean area. Living members (n approximately 120) of a very large pedigree were interviewed using the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM III (SCID I), SCID II, and with a family history questionnaire. A diagnostic panel evaluated multisource information (interview, medical records, family history) and pronounced best-estimate consensus diagnoses on all family members. Linkage, SimAPM, SimIBD, and sib-pair analyses have been performed with 332 microsatellite probes covering the entire genome at an average spacing of 11 cM. GENEHUNTER and haplotype analyses were performed on regions of interest. Analysis of a second large pedigree in the same regions of interest permitted confirmation of presumed linkages found in the region of chromosome 12q23-q24.
Association analysis of candidate genes may represent a strategy for clarifying the genetic components involved in bipolar disorder. Polymorphism at dopamine receptor genes DRD2, DRD4, and dopamine and serotonin transporter genes (DAT, SERT) has been used in previous association studies. Some authors have reported positive association between certain alleles and bipolar disorder, using the case-control design. In this family-based association study of DRD2, DRD4, DAT, and SERT, the distribution of parental nontransmitted alleles was compared with that of alleles transmitted to 53 Sardinian probands suffering from bipolar disorder. The transmission disequilibrium test (TDT) was used to detect any disproportionate transmission of alleles by heterozygous parents to affected children. No differences were found between the allele distribution of polymorphisms at DRD2, DRD4, DAT, and SERT in probands and parental nontransmitted chromosomes. TDT did not reveal any difference between transmitted and nontransmitted alleles. Our results do not support the hypothesis of a role for DRD2, DRD4, DAT, or SERT in bipolar disorder. Previously reported positive associations between DRD2 or SERT and bipolar disorder were conceivably due to stratification dependent on the case-control design, even though our sample might have failed to detect small associations due to limited power.
One of the major pathological features of Alzheimer's disease is the deposition of beta-amyloid peptide (Abeta). Cellular toxicity has been shown to be associated with fibrillar forms of Abeta; preventing this fibril formation is therefore viewed as a possible method of slowing disease progression in Alzheimer's disease. With the use of a series of tetracyclic and carbazole-type compounds as inhibitors of Abeta fibril formation, we here describe a number of common structural features that seem to be associated with the inhibitory properties of these agents. Compounds such as carvedilol, rolitetracycline and daunomycin, which are shown to inhibit Abeta fibril formation, also prevent the formation of species of peptide that demonstrate biological activity in a human neuroblastoma cell line. Molecular modelling data suggest that these compounds have in common the ability to adopt a specific three-dimensional pharmacophore conformation that might be essential for binding to Abeta and preventing it from forming fibrils. Understanding such drug-peptide interactions might aid the development of disease-modifying agents.
Apolipoprotein E (apoE) epsilon4 allele is a genetic risk factor for late-onset familial and sporadic Alzheimer's disease (AD). In the central nervous system, apoE is secreted mainly by astrocytes as a constituent of high-density lipoproteins. A recent study using apoE knockout mice provided strong evidence that apoE promotes cerebral deposition of amyloid beta protein (Abeta). However, no clear explanation of the pathogenesis of apoE-induced AD has been provided. Here we discuss two possible mechanisms by which apoE might enhance Abeta deposition. One is the intracellular pathway in which apoE is internalized by neurons and induces lysosomal accumulation of Abeta and amyloidogenic APP (amyloid precursor protein) fragments, leading to neuronal death. The other is the extracellular pathway in which apoE-containing lipoproteins are trapped by Abeta1-42 deposits mobilizing soluble Abeta peptides and consequently enlarge amyloid plaques. These two mechanisms may operate at different stages of AD pathogenesis and suggest a chaperone-like function for the apoE molecule
We investigated the effects of acute i.p. injections of the Ca(2+)-dependent K(+) channel blocker, apamin, on water maze spatial navigation and radial arm maze performance in mice with partial hippocampal-lesions. In the radial arm maze, apamin 0.06 and 0.2 mg/kg dose-dependently reversed the lesion-induced defect. In the water maze, apamin 0.2 mg/kg alleviated the defect, but a lower dose 0.06 mg/kg was ineffective. At a higher dose, 0.4 mg/kg, apamin impaired the water maze performance. These results suggest that Ca(2+)-dependent K(+) channel blockers can alleviate the spatial reference memory and working memory impairment induced by partial hippocampal lesions.
Tryptophan hydroxylase, the initial and rate-limiting enzyme in serotonin biosynthesis, is inactivated by peroxynitrite in a concentration-dependent manner. This effect is prevented by molecules that react directly with peroxynitrite such as dithiothreitol, cysteine, glutathione, methionine, tryptophan, and uric acid but not by scavengers of superoxide (superoxide dismutase), hydroxyl radical (Me(2)SO, mannitol), and hydrogen peroxide (catalase). Assuming simple competition kinetics between peroxynitrite scavengers and the enzyme, a second-order rate constant of 3.4 x 10(4) M(-1) s(-1) at 25 degrees C and pH 7.4 was estimated. The peroxynitrite-induced loss of enzyme activity was accompanied by a concentration-dependent oxidation of protein sulfhydryl groups. Peroxynitrite-modified tryptophan hydroxylase was resistant to reduction by arsenite, borohydride, and dithiothreitol, suggesting that sulfhydryls were oxidized beyond sulfenic acid. Peroxynitrite also caused the nitration of tyrosyl residues in tryptophan hydroxylase, with a maximal modification of 3.8 tyrosines/monomer. Sodium bicarbonate protected tryptophan hydroxylase from peroxynitrite-induced inactivation and lessened the extent of sulfhydryl oxidation while causing a 2-fold increase in tyrosine nitration. Tetranitromethane, which oxidizes sulfhydryls at pH 6 or 8, but which nitrates tyrosyl residues at pH 8 only, inhibited tryptophan hydroxylase equally at either pH. Acetylation of tyrosyl residues with N-acetylimidazole did not alter tryptophan hydroxylase activity. These data suggest that peroxynitrite inactivates tryptophan hydroxylase via sulfhydryl oxidation. Modification of tyrosyl residues by peroxynitrite plays a relatively minor role in the inhibition of tryptophan hydroxylase catalytic activity.

The neurochemical evidence of methamphetamine (MA)-induced toxicity to dopaminergic nerve terminals is well documented; however, the functional consequences are not clearly defined. The present study was designed to investigate whether MA-induced dopamine depletions affect locomotor activity, stereotypic behavior, and/or extracellular dopamine concentrations in the neostriatum. Male rats were treated with a neurotoxic regimen of MA (10 mg/kg, i.p., every 2 hr for four injections) or vehicle and tested for functional effects 1 week later. Animals that had received the neurotoxic regimen of MA showed a reduction in both caudate nucleus and nucleus accumbens dopamine contents of 56 and 30%, respectively. Furthermore, MA-treated rats exhibited a significant attenuation in spontaneous activity, as well as a significant diminution in MA (low dose)-stimulated locomotor activity as compared to vehicle-treated rats. However, there were no differences in the MA (low dose)-induced increases in extracellular dopamine concentrations in the caudate nucleus or the nucleus accumbens core of either group. Interestingly, the acute administration of higher doses of MA elicited a significantly augmented stereotypic response and a significantly attenuated increase in the extracellular concentration of dopamine in the caudate nucleus of rats treated with a neurotoxic regimen of MA as compared to vehicle-treated animals. These data indicate that MA-induced neurotoxicity results in abnormal dopamine-mediated behaviors, as well as a brain region-specific impairment in stimulated dopamine release.
In most songbirds, vocal learning occurs through two experience-dependent phases, culminating in a reduction of behavioral plasticity called song crystallization. At ends of developmentally plastic periods in other systems, synaptic properties change in a fashion appropriate to limit plasticity. Maturation of glutamatergic synapses often involves a reduction in duration of NMDA receptor (NMDAR)-mediated synaptic responses and a coincident reduction in the contribution of NMDARs to synaptic transmission. We hypothesized that similar changes in the zebra finch song system help limit behavioral plasticity during song development. Nucleus robustus archistriatalis (RA) is a key nucleus in the forebrain song motor pathway and receives glutamatergic input from the motor nucleus HVc. RA also receives glutamatergic input, mediated primarily by NMDARs, from the lateral magnocellular nucleus of the anterior neostriatum, which is part of a circuit essential for learning but not song production. We examined whether synaptic maturation occurs in either input to RA by recording synaptic currents in brain slices prepared from zebra finches of different ages. We find the motor input from HVc to RA uses both AMPA receptors (AMPARs) and NMDARs, and synaptic maturation occurs in two phases: an early reduction in duration of NMDAR-mediated synaptic currents in both inputs, and a later reduction in the NMDAR contribution to synaptic responses in the motor pathway. Although NMDAR kinetics change too early to account for crystallization, the reduction of the relative NMDAR contribution to synaptic transmission could contribute to the onset of crystallization. Thus, synaptic maturation events can be temporally distinct and input-specific and may play different roles in behavioral plasticity.
How are sensory-motor transformations organized in a cortical motor system? In general, sensory information is transformed through a variety of signal processing operations in the context of distinct coordinate frameworks. We studied the interaction of two distinct operations in pursuit eye movements, learning and vector-averaging, to gain insight into their underlying coordinate frameworks and their sequence in sensory-motor processing. Learning was induced in the initiation of pursuit eye movements by targets that moved initially at one speed for 100 msec and then increased or decreased to a sustained final speed. Vector averaging was studied by comparing the initial eye acceleration evoked by the simultaneous motion of two targets with that evoked by each target singly. Learning caused specific effects on the direction of the vector-averaged responses to two-target stimuli that included one target moving in the direction used to induce learning. Learned increases or decreases in eye acceleration caused the direction of the responses to two-targets to rotate toward or away from the learning direction. Learning also caused nonspecific changes in the responses to two-target stimuli. After any learning protocol, two-target responses usually became smaller, and their directions rotated away from the axis of the target motion used for learning. Quantitative analysis showed that the specific effects of learning were predicted most closely by a model in which vector averaging occurs downstream from the site(s) of learning. We suggest that the pursuit system creates parallel commands for potential movements to each of the targets in two-target stimuli, and that learning occurs in the coordinates of the potential movements.
Mature motoneurons respond to partial denervation of their target muscle by sprouting to reinnervate denervated fibers, thus maintaining muscle strength in the face of motoneuronal loss caused by injury or disease. Neonatal motoneurons, however, do not expand to innervate more muscle fibers. The present work seeks to understand this developmental change in motoneuron response to partial denervation. It has been suggested that neonatal motor units cannot increase in size because they are already at their maximum size (approximately five times larger than in adulthood). We ruled out this explanation by showing that after partial denervation on postnatal day 14 (P14), when motor units have decreased to their adult size, motoneurons still did not sprout to reinnervate as many fibers as in adulthood. Instead, we found evidence supporting an alternative explanation involving terminal Schwann cells. After partial denervation of neonatal (but not adult) muscles, terminal Schwann cells at denervated endplates undergo apoptosis. We found that terminal (but not nodal) sprouting was absent in partially denervated neonatal muscles. This finding suggests that terminal Schwann cells, previously reported to guide terminal sprouts to denervated endplates in adult muscles, are necessary for the formation and growth of terminal sprouts. Moreover, partial denervation on P14 severely weakened the remaining, uninjured synapses, suggesting that neonatal motoneurons may withdraw terminals after the denervation of nearby fibers. These findings have implications for the interpretation of previous studies on synapse elimination and offer insight into the failure of young motor units to expand after partial denervation.
Local changes in microtubule organization and distribution are required for the axon to grow and navigate appropriately; however, little is known about how microtubules (MTs) reorganize during directed axon outgrowth. We have used time-lapse digital imaging of developing cortical neurons microinjected with fluorescently labeled tubulin to follow the movements of individual MTs in two regions of the axon where directed growth occurs: the terminal growth cone and the developing interstitial branch. In both regions, transitions from quiescent to growth states were accompanied by reorganization of MTs from looped or bundled arrays to dispersed arrays and fragmentation of long MTs into short MTs. We also found that long-term redistribution of MTs accompanied the withdrawal of some axonal processes and the growth and stabilization of others. Individual MTs moved independently in both anterograde and retrograde directions to explore developing processes. Their velocities were inversely proportional to their lengths. Our results demonstrate directly that MTs move within axonal growth cones and developing interstitial branches. Our findings also provide the first direct evidence that similar reorganization and movement of individual MTs occur in the two regions of the axon where directed outgrowth occurs. These results suggest a model whereby short exploratory MTs could direct axonal growth cones and interstitial branches toward appropriate locations.
Small conductance Ca(2+)-activated potassium channels (SK channels) are coassembled complexes of pore-forming SK alpha subunits and calmodulin. We proposed a model for channel activation in which Ca2+ binding to calmodulin induces conformational rearrangements in calmodulin and the alpha subunits that result in channel gating. We now report fluorescence measurements that indicate conformational changes in the alpha subunit after calmodulin binding and Ca2+ binding to the alpha subunit-calmodulin complex. Two-hybrid experiments showed that the Ca(2+)-independent interaction of calmodulin with the alpha subunits requires only the C-terminal domain of calmodulin and is mediated by two noncontiguous subregions; the ability of the E-F hands to bind Ca2+ is not required. Although SK alpha subunits lack a consensus calmodulin-binding motif, mutagenesis experiments identified two positively charged residues required for Ca(2+)-independent interactions with calmodulin. Electrophysiological recordings of SK2 channels in membrane patches from oocytes coexpressing mutant calmodulins revealed that channel gating is mediated by Ca2+ binding to the first and second E-F hand motifs in the N-terminal domain of calmodulin. Taken together, the results support a calmodulin- and Ca(2+)-calmodulin-dependent conformational change in the channel alpha subunits, in which different domains of calmodulin are responsible for Ca(2+)-dependent and Ca(2+)-independent interactions. In addition, calmodulin is associated with each alpha subunit and must bind at least one Ca2+ ion for channel gating. Based on these results, a state model for Ca2+ gating was developed that simulates alterations in SK channel Ca2+ sensitivity and cooperativity associated with mutations in CaM.
In CA1 pyramidal neurons of the hippocampus, calcium-dependent spikes occur in vivo during specific behavioral states and may be enhanced during epileptiform activity. However, the mechanisms that control calcium spike initiation and repolarization are poorly understood. Using dendritic and somatic patch-pipette recordings, we show that calcium spikes are initiated in the apical dendrites of CA1 pyramidal neurons and drive bursts of sodium-dependent action potentials at the soma. Initiation of calcium spikes at the soma was suppressed in part by potassium channels activated by sodium-dependent action potentials. Low-threshold, putative D-type potassium channels [blocked by 100 microM 4-aminopyridine (4-AP) and 0.5-1 microM alpha-dendrotoxin (alpha-DTX)] played a prominent role in setting a high threshold for somatic calcium spikes, thus restricting initiation to the dendrites. DTX- and 4-AP-sensitive channels were activated during sodium-dependent action potentials and mediated a large component of their afterhyperpolarization. Once initiated, repetitive firing of calcium spikes was limited by activation of putative BK-type calcium-activated potassium channels (blocked by 250 microM tetraethylammonium chloride, 70 nM charybdotoxin, or 100 nM iberiotoxin). Thus, the concerted action of calcium- and voltage-activated potassium channels serves to focus spatially and temporally the membrane depolarization and calcium influx generated by calcium spikes during strong, synchronous network excitation.
Neurite outgrowth from dorsal root ganglion (DRG) explants is a method of evaluating neurotrophic activity of growth factors and neurotrophin mimetics. The drawbacks to this approach are the difficulties in quantifying the response. Neurite counts are time consuming and labour intensive, and the accuracy is often questionable due to branching and fasciculation of the neurites. We report here a method of semi-quantitative analysis of neurite outgrowth from chick DRG explants, using image analysis to quantify the area occupied by neurites emanating from the ganglion. This method is rapid, takes into account both the length and number of neurites, and is unaffected by neurite fasciculation or branching. Primary explants of chick DRGs were treated with the neurotrophins nerve growth factor (NGF) or neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) and with the compound K252a. K252b was tested for potentiation of the response to NT-3. The results show a dose dependent outgrowth of neurites from explants treated with NGF, NT-3 and K252a, and potentiation of the NT-3 response by K252b. These responses were quantified by neurite area quantification using image analysis. We conclude that neurite area measurement using image analysis provides a robust means of evaluating neurotrophic activity of growth factors and neurotrophin mimetics in vitro.
Precise kinematic measurements of tremor have historically been obtained using accelerometers. However, current technology permits precise measurements in velocity and displacement. The primary advantage of velocity recording is that only one step of integration or differentiation is required for either displacement or acceleration. A method is presented of measuring finger tremor using a laser system that transduces velocity precisely. Measurements of postural finger tremor thus obtained were compared to those simultaneously obtained from a laser system that transduces displacement, from an accelerometer and from surface electromyography (EMG) of the extensor digitorum communis. A range of amplitude and frequency content was obtained by testing control subjects and subjects with Parkinson's disease. The velocity transducer showed excellent correspondence of amplitude and frequency measurement with the displacement transducer. Measures of absolute and relative amplitude correlated well (r &gt; or = 0.96 in amplitude measures in displacement, velocity and acceleration), and high coherence was found throughout the frequency range of interest. Measurements by the accelerometer generally showed poorer correspondence with those of the other instruments. EMG measurements showed good correspondence in some trials but poorer correspondence in others, attributed to the low level of muscle activity required in the task. Precise kinematic measurements appear to be highly sensitive to neuromotor impairment.
Retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) cells in culture display selective induction of certain early response transcription factors at the onset of photoreceptor rod outer segment (ROS)-specific phagocytosis (Ershov et al., 1996a). Moreover, this response is modulated by prostaglandins. The purpose of this study is to examine the expression of the key enzymes in prostaglandin synthesis: cyclooxygenase-1 (COX-1, constitutive) and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2, inducible), during phagocytosis of ROS by RPE cells. Rat RPE cells in primary cell culture were fed with a suspension of freshly isolated rat ROS. COX-1 and COX-2 mRNA expression was studied by quantitative competitive reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). During phagocytosis of ROS by RPE cells, RT-PCR revealed an increase in mRNA expression of COX-2, but not of COX-1. COX-2 was also induced by the phospholipid growth factor lyso-phosphatidic acid (LPA) and by the peptide growth factors platelet derived growth factor (PDGF), basic fibroblast growth factor (FGF), and transforming growth factor (TGFbeta), but not nerve growth factor (NGF). Induction of COX-2 by ROS phagocytosis and growth factors through the modulation of prostanoid synthesis may play an important role in the regulation of cell functions associated with photoreceptor cell renewal.
A new subdivision with distinctive morphological and functional attributes has been identified at the caudomedial margin of the neostriatum and surrounding the rostrolateral border of the globus pallidus in the brains of the rat, cat, monkey, and human. The subdivision is termed marginal division (MrD) based on its location. It is readily distinguishable from the rest of striatum by consisting of spindle-shaped neurons, special connections, and intensely expressed immunoreactivities of many neuropeptides and some monoamines in the fibers, terminals, and neuronal somata. Three-dimensional reconstruction from Nissl-stained sections of the rat brain revealed that the MrD is a flat, pan-shaped zone between the neostriatum and globus pallidus. Functional neuronal connections were delineated by chemical-induced c-Fos expression between the MrD and hippocampus, amygdala, as well as the basal nucleus of Meynert. In rats with chemical lesions of bilateral MrD, learning and memory functions were severely impaired as demonstrated by double blind Y-maze test. Our results thus suggested that the MrD is a distinct part and a universal structure in the neostriatum of the mammalian brain and might play an important role in the mechanism of learning and memory.
1. Back pain is known to change motor patterns of the trunk. The purpose of this study was to examine the motor output of the erector spinae (ES) muscles during pain in the lumbar region. First, their voluntary activation was assessed during flexion and re-extension of the trunk. Second, effects of cutaneous and muscle pain on the ES stretch reflex were measured, since increased stretch reflex gain has been suggested to underlie increased muscle tone in painful muscles. 2. The trunk movement and electromyographical (EMG) signals from the right and left ES during pain were compared with values before pain. Controlled muscle pain was induced by infusion of 5 % saline into the right lumbar ES. Cutaneous pain was elicited by mechanical or electrical stimulation of the dorsal lumbar skin. The stretch reflex was evoked by rapidly indenting the right lumbar ES with a servo-motor prodder. 3. The results from the voluntary task show that muscle pain decreased the modulation depth of ES EMG activity. This pattern was associated with a decreased range and velocity of motion of the painful body segment, which would normally serve to avoid further injury. Interestingly, when subjects overcame this guarding tendency and made exactly the same movements during pain as before pain, the EMG modulation depth was still reduced. The results seem to reconcile the controversy of previous studies, in which both hyper- and hypoactivity of back muscles in pain have been reported. 4. In the tapped muscle, the EMG response consisted of two peaks (latency 19.3 +/- 2.1 and 44.6 +/- 2.5 ms, respectively) followed by a trough. On the contralateral side the first response was a trough (26.2 +/- 3.2 ms) while the second (46.4 +/- 4.3 ms) was a peak, similar to the second peak on the tapped side. Cutaneous pain had no effect on the short-latency response but significantly increased the second response on the tapped side. Surprisingly, deep muscle pain had no effect on the stretch reflex. A short-latency reciprocal inhibition exists between the right and left human ES. 5. It is concluded that deep back pain does not influence the stretch reflexes in the back muscles but modulates the voluntary activation of these muscles.
1. Excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) were evoked at synapses formed by Schaffer collaterals/commissural (CA3) axons with CA1 pyramidal cells using the rat hippocampal slice preparation. Long-term potentiation (LTP) was induced at these synapses using a pairing protocol, with 50 microM d,l-APV present in the artificial cerebrospinal fluid (ACSF). 2. Quantal analysis of the amplitudes of the control and conditioned EPSCs showed that the enhancement of synaptic strength was due entirely to an increase in quantal content of the EPSC. No change occurred in the quantal current. 3. These results were compared with those obtained from a previous quantal analysis of LTP induced in normal ACSF, where both quantal current and quantal content increased. The results suggest that calcium entering via NMDA receptors initiates the signalling cascade that results in enhanced AMPA currents because it is adding to cytoplasmic calcium from other sources to reach a threshold for this signalling pathway, or because calcium entering via NMDA receptors specifically activates this signalling pathway.
1. Isolated soleus muscle fibres from aged rats contract more slowly than those from young rats. To determine whether this effect is due to a difference between the myosin molecules, we measured the rate at which actin filaments are driven over a myosin coated surface in the presence of ATP by using a novel in vitro motility assay where myosin is extracted from single muscle fibre segments. 2. Motility was dependent on the myosin density on the coverslip. In regions of high myosin density, actin motility was orientated parallel and anti-parallel to the direction of flow during myosin adhesion to the coverslip. In contrast, in regions of lower myosin density, actin motility was more random. The speed was about 20 % higher in the high density regions (P &lt; 0.001). Further, the speed of filaments in the high density region, moving away or towards the fibre was less variable (P &lt; 0.05) than that of more randomly moving filaments in the low density region. 3. The speed with myosin from slow soleus fibres of young adult rats (3-6 months old; v = 1.43 +/- 0.23 microm s-1; mean +/- s.d.) was faster (P &lt; 0.001) than with myosin from aged rats (20-24 months old; v = 1.27 +/- 0.23 microm s-1). 4. No difference in myosin isoforms between young adult and aged fibres could be detected using electrophoretic and immunocytochemical techniques. Fibres of both ages expressed the beta/slow myosin heavy chain (MyHC) isoform and slow isoforms of essential and regulatory myosin light chains (MyLCs). 5. It is concluded that an age-related alteration in myosin contributes to the slowing of the maximum shortening velocity (V0) observed in soleus muscle fibres expressing the beta/slow MyHC isoform.
1. A truncated form of the rabbit alpha1S Ca2+ channel subunit (alpha1SDeltaC) was expressed with the beta1b, alpha2delta and gamma auxiliary subunits in Xenopus laevis oocytes. After 5-7 days, skeletal muscle L-type currents were measured (469 +/- 48 nA in 10 mM Ba2+). All three of the auxiliary subunits were necessary to record significant L-type current. A rapidly inactivating, dihydropyridine-insensitive endogenous Ba2+ current was observed in oocytes expressing the auxiliary subunits without an exogenous alpha subunit. Expression of full-length alpha1S gave 10-fold smaller currents than the truncated form. 2. Three missense mutations causing hypokalaemic periodic paralysis (R528H in domain II S4 of the alpha1S subunit; R1239H and R1239G in domain IV S4) were introduced into alpha1SDeltaC and expressed in oocytes. L-type current was separated from the endogenous current by nimodipine subtraction. All three of the mutations reduced L-type current amplitude ( approximately 40 % for R528H, approximately 60-70 % for R1239H and R1239G). 3. The disease mutations altered the activation properties of L-type current. R528H shifted the G(V) curve approximately 5 mV to the left and modestly reduced the voltage dependence of the activation time constant, tauact. R1239H and R1239G shifted the G(V) curve approximately 5-10 mV to the right and dramatically slowed tauact at depolarized test potentials. 4. The voltage dependence of steady-state inactivation was not significantly altered by any of the disease mutations. 5. Wild-type and mutant L-type currents were also measured in the presence of (-)-Bay K8644, which boosted the amplitude approximately 5- to 7-fold. The effects of the mutations on the position of the G(V) curve and the voltage dependence of tauact were essentially the same as in the absence of agonist. Bay K-enhanced tail currents were slowed by R528H and accelerated by R1239H and R1239G. 6. We conclude that the domain IV mutations R1239H and R1239G have similar effects on the gating properties of the skeletal muscle L-type Ca2+ channel expressed in Xenopus oocytes, while the domain II mutation R528H has distinct effects. This result implies that the location of the substitutions is more important than their degree of conservation in determining their biophysical consequences.
Mutations in coding exons or exon 10 5'-splice-site of the gene for microtubule-associated protein tau can cause chromosome 17-linked frontotemporal dementia and parkinsonism (FTDP-17). We sequenced the 11 coding exons plus exon-intron boundaries of the tau gene in 15 cases of progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), and found no mutations in coding exons or exon ten 5'-splice sites. These data indicate that typical PSP is not associated with tau gene mutations similar to those causing FTDP-17. We also observed a +39deltaG base change in the intron following exon 4 in three out of 69 PSP cases (all three Italians), whereas it was not found in 150 Dutch controls and once in 112 Italian controls. The +39deltaG variant arose in the context of the PSP-associated tau H1 haplotype. Although a pathogenic role cannot be entirely excluded, +39deltaG is likely to be a rare polymorphism that may be in linkage disequilibrium with a biologically relevant locus inside or near to the tau gene.
The synucleins are a family of small proteins expressed in nervous tissue, which have been implicated in neurodegeneration. Using single strand conformation polymorphism analysis we screened for polymorphisms and mutations in the gene encoding human persyn, a recently discovered member of the synuclein family, in controls, patients with sporadic or familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) or familial Parkinson's disease (PD). Six polymorphisms in the genomic sequence of persyn were detected; A590C (5' untranslated region), G1943C (exon 3), G2049A (intron 3), T4502C (intron 3), T4552A (exon 4) and C5019T (3' untranslated region). However no associations with disease state were found in our sample group.
The cellular location of alpha-L fucose was studied in mice olfactory epithelium (OE) using the Ulex europaeus agglutinin-I (UEA-I) and Tetragonolobus purpureas agglutinin (TPA). In adult mice, UEA-I and TPA revealed a layer of cells that mostly correspond to immature olfactory neurons. Moreover, autoradiographic studies after 3H-T incorporation showed that UEA-I cell labelling occurred during the week following the division of neural cell precursors. In newborn animals, active neurogenesis process is associated with a higher number of UEA-I labelled cells. Olfactory neurogenesis may thus involve a transient event of protein fucosylation, preceding axonal growth.
The effect of a subchronic (4-week) exposure to low concentrations of toluene (40 or 80 parts per million, ppm) on the brain dopaminergic system has been examined in a rat model of Parkinson's disease. A unilateral lesion of the substantia nigra (SN) dopamine (DA) nerve cells was performed by injection of a low dose of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OH DA). The peak activity of contralateral rotational behavior induced by apomorphine was significantly decreased after exposure to 80 ppm toluene. Analysis of the neostriatum and SN ipsilateral to the lesion revealed that toluene (80 ppm, but not 40 ppm) counteracted the 6-OH DA-induced reductions of DA tissue levels both within the SN and the neostriatum. Also the lesion-induced reduction of immunoreactivity for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH IR) in the neostriatum was partly counteracted by the toluene exposure (80 ppm). In conclusion, a subchronic exposure to low doses of toluene (80 ppm) leads to signs of reduced dysfunction of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system after the neurotoxic treatment.
The interaction of ozone with some molecules results in an increased production of free radicals. The objective of this study was to identify whether acute ozone exposure to 1-1.5 ppm for 4 h, produced cytological and ultrastructural modifications in the olfactory bulb cells. The results showed that in rats exposed to ozone there was a significant loss of dendritic spines on primary and secondary dendrites of granule cells, whereas the control rats did not present such changes. Besides these exposed cells showed vacuolation of neuronal cytoplasm, swelling of Golgi apparatus and mitochondrion, dilation cisterns of the rough endoplasmic reticulum. These findings suggest that oxidative stress produced by ozone induces alterations in the granule layer of the olfactory bulb, which may be related to functional modifications.
The waggler, a neurological mutant mouse with a disrupted putative neuronal Ca(2+) channel gamma subunit, exhibits a cerebellar granule cell-specific brain-derived neurotrophic factor deficit, severe ataxia, and impaired eyeblink conditioning. Here, we show that multiple synapses of waggler cerebellar granule cells are arrested at an immature stage during development. Synaptic transmission is reduced at parallel fiber-Purkinje cell synapses. The Golgi cell-granule cell synaptic currents show immature kinetics associated with reduced gamma-aminobutyric acid type A receptor alpha6 subunit expression in granule cells. In addition, the mossy fiber-granule cell synapses exhibit N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-mediated excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs), but not alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptor-mediated EPSCs. Our results suggest that voltage-dependent Ca(2+) channels are involved in synapse maturation. This deficient synaptic transmission in the waggler cerebellum may account for their behavioral deficits.
In the present study, we established an animal model for dengue virus infection using severe combined immunodeficient mice transplanted with a human hepatocarcinoma cell line (HepG2). At 7-8 weeks after transplantation, the HepG2-grafted mice were infected intraperitoneally with dengue virus type 2 (DEN-2). A higher titer of the virus was detected in the liver and serum but not in the brain in the early stage of postinfection. When the mice showed paralysis, the highest titer of virus was detected in the serum and brain. DEN-2 antigens were also found in HepG2 cells of the liver in the early stage and some neurons of the brain in the late stage. Upon clinical examination, thrombocytopenia, prolonged partial thromboplastin time, and increased hematocrit, blood urea nitrogen, and tumor necrosis factor alpha were seen in the paralyzed mice. Moreover, mild hemorrhage in the liver and tarry stool in the small intestine were observed in some mice. Our results show some similarities to human DEN infection and this mouse model might be valuable for studying some aspects of pathogenesis of this disease.
The benefits for both doctors and patients of effective communication skills in medical care have been widely documented and are generally accepted. There has been less research on this topic with respect to dental care. However, based on available studies and the reported success of teaching communication skills at the undergraduate level in dental schools, a workshop was developed to improve the communication skills of dentists working in government clinics in Hong Kong. The patient-centred interview as used in medical care formed the basis for teaching communication skills in this workshop. Objective and subjective measures of dentists' knowledge, attitude and skills related to the patient-centred interview were obtained before, immediately and eight weeks after the workshops. Objective measures showed immediate gains in knowledge. However, attitudes declined during the period of study. Subjective evaluations revealed improved communication skills eight weeks after the workshop and that the patient-centred interview was considered relevant to the practices of these dentists. Participants made specific reference to the concept of empathy as a means of promoting more effective communication between dentists and patients.
Mice homozygous for the retinal degeneration slow (rds) mutation completely lack photoreceptor outer segments. The rds gene encodes rds/peripherin (rds), a membrane glycoprotein in the rims of rod and cone outer segment discs. rds is present as a complex with the related protein, rom1. Here, we generated transgenic mice that express a chimeric protein (rom/D2) containing the intradiscal D2 loop of rds in the context of rom1. rom/D2 was N-glycosylated, formed covalent homodimers, and interacted non-covalently with itself, rds, and rom1. The rds.rom/D2 interaction was significantly more stable than the non-covalent interaction between rds and rom1 by detergent/urea titration. Analysis of mice expressing rom/D2 revealed that rds is 2.5-fold more abundant than rom1, interacts non-covalently with itself and rom1 via the D2 loop, and forms a high order complex that may extend the entire circumference of the disc. Expression of rom/D2 fully rescued the ultrastructural phenotype in rds+/- mutant mice, but it had no effect on the phenotype in rds-/- mutants. Together, these observations explain the striking differences in null phenotypes and frequencies of disease-causing mutations between the RDS and ROM1 genes.
The sulfonylurea receptor (SUR) is a member of the ATP-binding cassette family that is associated with Kir 6.x to form ATP-sensitive potassium channels. SUR is involved in nucleotide regulation of the channel and is the site of pharmacological interaction with sulfonylurea drugs and potassium channel openers. SUR contains three hydrophobic domains, TM(0), TM(1), and TM(2), with nucleotide binding folds following TM(1) and TM(2). Two topological models of SUR have been proposed containing either 13 transmembrane segments (in a 4+5+4 arrangement) or 17 transmembrane segments (in a 5+6+6 arrangement) (Aguilar-Bryan, L., Nichols, C. G., Wechsler, S. W., Clement, J. P. t., Boyd, A. E., III, Gonzlez, G., Herrera-Sosa, H., Nguy, K., Bryan, J., and Nelson, D. A. (1995) Science 268, 423-426; Tusndy, G. E., Bakos, E., Vradi, A., and Sarkadi, B. (1997) FEBS Lett. 402, 1-3; Aguilar-Bryan, L., Clement, J. P., IV, Gonzlez, G., Kunjilwar, K., Babenko, A., and Bryan, J. (1998) Physiol. Rev. 78, 227-245). We analyzed the topology of the amino-terminal TM(0) region of SUR1 using glycosylation and protease protection studies. Deglycosylation using peptide-N-glycosidase F and site-directed mutagenesis established that Asn(10), near the amino terminus, and Asn(1050) are the only sites of N-linked glycosylation, thus placing these sites on the extracellular side of the membrane. To study in detail the topology of SUR1, we constructed and expressed in vitro fusion proteins containing 1-5 hydrophobic segments of the TM(0) region fused to the reporter prolactin. The fusion proteins were subjected to a protease protection assay that reported the accessibility of the prolactin epitope. Our results indicate that the TM(0) region is comprised of 5 transmembrane segments. These data support the 5+6+6 model of SUR1 topology.
alpha-Synuclein is a major component of aggregates forming amyloid-like fibrils in diseases with Lewy bodies and other neurodegenerative disorders, yet the mechanism by which alpha-synuclein is intracellularly aggregated during neurodegeneration is poorly understood. Recent studies suggest that oxidative stress reactions might contribute to abnormal aggregation of this molecule. In this context, the main objective of the present study was to determine the potential role of the heme protein cytochrome c in alpha-synuclein aggregation. When recombinant alpha-synuclein was coincubated with cytochrome c/hydrogen peroxide, alpha-synuclein was concomitantly induced to be aggregated. This process was blocked by antioxidant agents such as N-acetyl-L-cysteine. Hemin/hydrogen peroxide similarly induced aggregation of alpha-synuclein, and both cytochrome c/hydrogen peroxide- and hemin/hydrogen peroxide-induced aggregation of alpha-synuclein was partially inhibited by treatment with iron chelator deferoxisamine. This indicates that iron-catalyzed oxidative reaction mediated by cytochrome c/hydrogen peroxide might be critically involved in promoting alpha-synuclein aggregation. Furthermore, double labeling studies for cytochrome c/alpha-synuclein showed that they were colocalized in Lewy bodies of patients with Parkinson's disease. Taken together, these results suggest that cytochrome c, a well known electron transfer, and mediator of apoptotic cell death may be involved in the oxidative stress-induced aggregation of alpha-synuclein in Parkinson's disease and related disorders.
trk receptors are downregulated in both dorsal root ganglion (DRG) and spinal motoneurons of aged rats with behavioral sensorimotor deficits. Here we provide evidence, using reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), of decreased levels of neurotrophin (nerve growth factor, NGF; brain-derived neurotrophic factor, BDNF; neurotrophin-3, NT-3; and neurotrophin-4, NT-4) mRNAs in target muscles. Moreover, the degree of neurotrophin mRNA decrease in target muscles seems to co-vary with the extent of sensorimotor disturbances. In contrast, the peripheral nerve of aged rats showed a reciprocal regulation of neurotrophins, with increased levels of NGF, BDNF, and NT-4 mRNAs. Taken together, evidence suggest an aging-related attenuation of neurotrophin signaling between target tissues, on one hand, and DRG and motoneurons, on the other, and, furthermore, that target-derived neurotrophins regulate the expression levels of trk mRNAs in both DRG and motoneurons.
Visual images are segmented perceptually by a variety of cues, including color and motion. Recent experiments, using perceptual and neurophysiological approaches, have explored the complex interaction between these attributes. A full account will certainly include the effects of directed attention.
It is often assumed that all Old World monkeys share the same trichromatic colour vision, but the evidence in support of this conclusion is sparse as only a small fraction of all Old World monkey species have been tested. To address this issue, spectral sensitivity functions were measured in animals from eight species of Old World monkey (five cercopithecine species and three colobine species) using a non-invasive electrophysiological technique. Each of the 25 animals examined had spectrally well-separated middle- and long-wavelength cone pigments. Cone pigments maximally sensitive to short wavelengths were also detected, implying the presence of trichromatic colour vision. Direct comparisons of the spectral sensitivity functions of Old World monkeys suggest there are no significant variations in the spectral positions of the cone pigments underlying the trichromatic colour vision of Old World monkeys.
Mutations in the gene encoding human cardiac troponin T can cause familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, a disease that is characterized by ventricular hypertrophy and sudden, premature death. Troponin T is the tropomyosin-binding subunit of troponin required for thin filament regulation of contraction. One mutation, a change in the intron 15 splice donor site, results in two truncated forms of troponin T [Thierfelder et al. (1994) Cell 77, 701-712]. In one form, the mRNA skips exon 16 that encodes the C-terminal 14 amino acids; in the other, seven novel residues replace the exon 15- and 16-encoded C-terminal 28 amino acids. The two troponin T cDNAs were expressed in Escherichia coli for functional analysis. Both C-terminal deletion mutants formed a complex with cardiac troponin C and troponin I that exhibited the same concentration dependence as wild-type for regulation of the actomyosin MgATPase. However, both mutants showed severely reduced activation of the regulated actomyosin in the presence of Ca2+, though the inhibition in the absence of Ca2+ and the Ca(2+)-dependence of activation were not altered. The C-terminal deletions reduce the effectiveness of Ca(2+)-troponin to switch the thin filament from the &quot;off&quot; to the &quot;on&quot; state. Both mutant troponin Ts have reduced affinity for troponin I; the shorter mutant is at least 6-fold weaker than wild-type. The low level of activation of the ATPase would be consistent with reduced contractile performance, and the results suggest reduced troponin I affinity may be the molecular basis for the disease.
Neurotrophins play an essential role in the regulation of actin-dependent changes in growth cone shape and motility. We have studied whether neurotrophin signaling can promote the localization of beta-actin mRNA and protein within growth cones. The regulated localization of specific mRNAs within neuronal processes and growth cones could provide a mechanism to modulate cytoskeletal composition and growth cone dynamics during neuronal development. We have previously shown that beta-actin mRNA is localized in granules that were distributed throughout processes and growth cones of cultured neurons. In this study, we demonstrate that the localization of beta-actin mRNA and protein to growth cones of forebrain neurons is stimulated by neurotrophin-3 (NT-3). A similar response was observed when neurons were exposed to forskolin or db-cAMP, suggesting an involvement of a cAMP signaling pathway. NT-3 treatment resulted in a rapid and transient stimulation of PKA activity that preceded the localization of beta-actin mRNA. Localization of beta-actin mRNA was blocked by prior treatment of cells with Rp-cAMP, an inhibitor of cAMP-dependent protein kinase A. Depolymerization of microtubules, but not microfilaments, inhibited the NT-3-induced localization of beta-actin mRNA. These results suggest that NT-3 activates a cAMP-dependent signaling mechanism to promote the microtubule-dependent localization of beta-actin mRNA within growth cones.
We have used multiple-labelling immunohistochemistry and confocal microscopy to determine the distribution of immunoreactivity to the tachykinin neurokinin-1 (NK(1)) receptors in guinea pig sympathetic ganglia. Although nerve fibres containing immunoreactivity to substance P were common in all ganglia except the superior cervical ganglia, most neurons expressing NK(1) receptor immunoreactivity were not closely surrounded by pericellular baskets of substance P-immunoreactive boutons. Conversely, many neurons surrounded by baskets of substance P-immunoreactive boutons lacked NK(1) immunoreactivity. In the coeliac and inferior mesenteric ganglia, NK(1) receptor expression was restricted almost entirely to noradrenergic neurons that contained somatostatin immunoreactivity and projected to the enteric plexuses. In the lumbar chain and paracervical ganglia, NK(1) immunoreactivity was expressed by nonnoradrenergic vasodilator neurons containing immunoreactivity to vasoactive intestinal peptide. Taken together, our results show that sympathetic neurons in different functional pathways express NK(1) receptor immunoreactivity. However, the neurons that could respond to endogenously released substance P through NK(1) receptors may be distant from presynaptic release sites. These observations suggest that, in sympathetic ganglia, substance P may modulate ganglionic transmission through heterosynaptic actions on NK(1) receptors.
The gastric sling (oblique) muscle (GSM), located close to the lower esophageal sphincter (LES), is involved in gastric motor function and may cooperate with the LES in controlling propulsion between the esophagus and stomach. Neuronal pathways and transmission to the GSM were investigated in isolated esophagus-stomach preparations by using intracellular recording with the focal electrical stimulation and neuroanatomical tracing method. Focal stimulation on the GSM evoked inhibitory junction potentials (IJPs) that were reduced to 45% by 100 microM N-nitro-L-arginine and subsequently blocked by 0.5 microM apamin, thereby unmasking excitatory junction potentials (EJPs), which were abolished by 1 microM hyoscine. Vagal and esophageal stimulation evoked IJPs that were blocked by 100 microM hexamethonium. Vagal stimulation also evoked EJPs after blockade of IJPs. Application of 1,1'-didodecyl-3,3,3',3'-tetramethyl indocarbocyanine perchlorate to the GSM labeled muscle motor neurons located in the stomach mainly close to the GSM, with a few neurons (2%) in the esophagus. The majority (79%) of labeled neurons were immunoreactive for choline acetyltransferase and, hence, excitatory motor neurons. Inhibitory motor neurons (nitric oxide synthase immunoreactive; 15%) were clustered in the midline near the gastroesophageal region. These results demonstrate that the GSM is innervated primarily by gastric excitatory and inhibitory motor neurons and some esophageal neurons. Both excitatory (acetylcholine) and inhibitory (nitric oxide and apamin-sensitive component) transmission can be activated via vagal-enteric pathways.
Outwardly rectifying K(+) channels determine the membrane conductance and influence the proliferation rate of glial progenitor cells. To analyze the molecular identity and the functional role of K(+) channels in glial progenitors of mouse brain, expression of shaker-type Kv1 genes was studied at three levels: (1) presence of Kv1 mRNAs, (2) biosynthesis of channel proteins and (3) electrophysiological and pharmacological properties of K(+) currents. mRNA expression of Kv1.1 to Kv1.6 genes was studied by single-cell reverse transcription-mediated polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) using degenerate primers to amplify the six Kv1 transcripts. Most cells expressed several mRNA combinations simultaneously. In more than half of the cells, messages for Kv1.2, Kv1.5 and Kv1.6 were found, while Kv1.1, Kv1.3 and Kv1.4 were detected in only a minority of cells. In contrast, at the level of protein expression - employing immunocytochemistry with subtype-specific antibodies - Kv1. 2 and Kv1.3 were undetectable (&lt;2%), while almost all cells expressed Kv1.4 (85%), Kv1.5 (99%) and Kv1.6 (99%). Kv1.1 was present in a minor cell population (10%). Functional contribution of Kv1 proteins to progenitor membrane conductance was determined by analyzing the voltage-dependence of K(+) current activation and inactivation as well as their current sensitivities to the subtype-preferring blockers and toxins tetraethylammonium (TEA), 4-aminopyridine (4-AP), charybdotoxin (CTX), alpha-dendrotoxin (DTX) and mast-cell degranulating peptide (MCDP). From these results, it is concluded: first, glial progenitor cells can express all transcripts of the six Kv1 genes, but do not express all proteins; second, Kv1.4, Kv1.5 and Kv1.6 proteins are most abundant and were found in the majority of cells; and third, K(+) currents flow predominantly either through heteromeric channel complexes or through homomeric Kv1.5 ion pores, but not through homomeric Kv1.4 or Kv1.6 channels.
The developmental and age-related changes of the dopamine transporter (DAT), and the dopamine D1 and D2 receptor (D1R and D2R) subtypes were investigated in basal ganglia (BG) of human brain. DAT immunostaining was mainly observed in the neuropil, neurons, and glia of the striatum. The DAT-positive neuropil was detectable at 32 GW, a peak being reached at 9-10 years of age, with a decrease to 50-63 years of age. The developmental pattern of DAT immunoreactivity in neuron was similar to that of the neuropil. DAT-positive glia were observed in the BG at 32 GW, which increased slightly at 38-40 GW, and then did not obviously change until 6-8 months after birth. D2R-positive neurons were clearly observed at 19 GW, a peak being reached at 32 GW and 1-3 months of age in the globus pallidus and striatum, respectively, with a decrease after 9-10 years of age. D1R was expressed as early as D2R, but decreased after 6-8 months. Our results suggest that D1R and D2R expression is an intrinsic property of striatal neurons and is independent of dopaminergic innervation. D1R may play a more important role in neuronal maturation of the BG than D2R. D2R may be closely correlated with late neuronal development. The higher expression of DAT during adolescence may be related to function of the BG which learns complex behavioral patterns. The significance of the age-related decreases in DAT, D1R and D2R in the BG remains to be further investigated.
Dopamine-releasing protein (DARP) is a multisubunit protein shown to have dramatic effects on development, recovery, and function of the rat catecholaminergic (CA) system. This study details efforts to determine if glial cells are responsible for the production of DARP in the central nervous system (CNS). Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISA), Western blotting, and immunocytochemical techniques were employed to measure DARP levels and identify DARP immunoreactive proteins in rat C6 glioma cells and medium, respectively. ELISA analysis of serum-free C6 culture media revealed a maximal concentration of DARP by culture day 1. However, ELISA analysis of C6 cultures grown in F-12K/serum medium revealed that maximal levels of DARP were detected on culture day 6 with a 108% increase in DARP immunoreactivity from culture day 1. These values were determined using a polyclonal antibody generated against DARP-36aa (anti-DARP-36aa), a synthetic peptide with dopamine (DA) releasing activity, and anti-DARP B9-B10, a monoclonal antibody generated against partially purified DARP. Western blot analysis revealed that anti-DARP B9-B10 recognized proteins of approximately 60, 50, and 45 kDa in C6 cell homogenates while anti-DARP-36aa had immunoreactivity with the 60-kDa protein alone. Immunocytochemical studies demonstrated that anti-DARP-36aa and anti-DARP B9-B10 had strong immunoreactivity with proteins throughout the cytosol and in several processes of C6 cells. These results reveal that DARP is detected in glioma cells and secreted in a time-dependent fashion during culture. Primary rat mesencephalic cultures were also examined using immunocytochemistry. Incubation with DARP antibodies and antisera against glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) revealed that DARP and GFAP immunoreactivity co-localized in primary mesencephalic cultures. However, the majority of DARP immunoreactivity was localized to cells without GFAP staining. These findings reveal that DARP is detected in astrocytes although the majority of DARP immunoreactivity is found in non-astrocyte type cells.

Presenilins, some gene mutations of which are associated with familial Alzheimer's disease (AD), are expressed mainly in neurons in normal brains and brains from patients clinicopathologically diagnosed as AD. They are thought to be related to cell death and survival. We studied the immunolocalization of presenilin to investigate its possible relation to cell death and glial proliferation, using two antibodies against different portions of the presenilin 1 protein, in human brains with cerebral infarction and in astrocytoma, where abundant cell death and glial proliferation are present. Expression of presenilin epitopes was more marked in glial cells than in neurons in and around the ischemic focus, and it was also robust in astrocytoma cells. These findings suggest that presenilins are functioning not only in neurons but also in glial cells in reactive and neoplastic proliferation.




The neuroprotective glial cell modulator propentofylline has been used in clinical trials involving more than 800 patients with vascular dementia (VaD). These data derive from two sources: a pooled group of VaD patients from four early phase III European trials, and a multinational European/Canadian phase III study (MN 305) that features a combined randomized withdrawal/delayed onset of progression design to evaluate the effect of propentofylline on disease progression. In the pooled studies, DSM-III-R criteria, Hachinski Ischemia Scores, computed tomography (CT), and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) were used to select subjects with mild-to-moderate disease; in MN 305, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke/Association Internationale pour la Recherche et l'Enseignement en Neurosciences (NINDS-AIREN) criteria and neurologic examinations (including CT and MRI scans) were used to select patients with possible or probable VaD. The use of a central rater to assess cerebrovascular disease in neuroradiologic examinations for study MN 305 was considered to be a key feature for reducing the heterogeneity of the VaD patient population. In addition, the inclusion of patients with possible VaD in this trial greatly increased the number of eligible patients; subgroup analyses revealed no substantial differences between patients with probable versus possible VaD, justifying their inclusion in the study. VaD patients exhibited a more pronounced placebo response in global assessments compared with the Alzheimer disease population in a parallel study. In addition, they experienced less deterioration over time with respect to cognitive and global assessments. Beneficial effects of propentofylline were consistently demonstrated in the domains of cognitive and global function for both VaD populations; however, no treatment benefits could be demonstrated for activities of daily living, possibly due to factors relating to the study population/design, the lack of a validated test instrument for such patients, the caregiver-related phenomenon of &quot;tutoring,&quot; or the nature of the disease itself.
Vascular risk factors are normally associated with cerebrovascular disease, which may lead to vascular dementia (VaD). Several recent studies suggest that there is increased risk of developing Alzheimer disease when exposed to these same vascular risk factors. In addition to old age, hypertension, peripheral arterial disease, certain types of cardiovascular disorders, diabetes mellitus, and smoking are now considered risk factors for late-onset Alzheimer disease. In this review, we examine several vascular factors and peripheral vascular pathophysiology implicated in Alzheimer disease and suggest certain mechanisms that might promote the association of vascular factors and late-onset Alzheimer disease. We support the implication that prevention or management of peripheral vascular disease may prevent or delay the onset of Alzheimer disease or mixed dementia.
There is a need for improvement of the diagnosis of vascular dementia (VaD). Today, the clinician has to rely on clinical examination, history, and, possibly, brain imaging to identify cerebrovascular damage and other signs of VaD. The clinical diagnosis of subcortical VaD may be difficult because the clinical manifestation of this disorder is often similar to that of Alzheimer disease. There are also mixed forms of the two disorders. Biochemical diagnostic markers, which reflect the pathogenetic processes in the brain, would add to the accuracy of the diagnosis. There are some interesting candidate markers: the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)/serum albumin ratio could be used to identify blood-brain barrier damage to the small intracerebral vessels, CSF sulfatide to identify ongoing demyelination of the white matter, CSF neuron-specific enolase to identify ongoing neuronal degeneration, and CSF tau protein and CSF neurofilament light protein to identify ongoing axonal degeneration. None of these potential markers is specific to subcortical VaD, but together and used in conjunction with the conventional diagnostic workup, they may be of diagnostic value.
There are various types of underlying damage to tissue and vessels in vascular dementia, including (1) single or multiple infarcts that involve association and limbic cortices, (2) small subcortical infarcts disrupting cortico-subcortical circuits, and (3) white matter lesions. The clinical picture of vascular dementia varies, and the role of functional brain imaging of cerebral blood flow and metabolism would be expected to be different among subtypes of vascular dementia. The role and value of functional brain imaging is limited for cortical infarcts; it is very valuable in assessing the impact on cortical function for small subcortical infarcts; and it is probably useful for evaluating white matter lesions, but this needs to be determined in further studies. At least in research of vascular dementia, functional brain imaging criteria should be included for proper patient selection. Careful studies using functional imaging tools in a well-characterized patient population will be needed.
Vascular dementia (VaD) relates to different vascular mechanisms and changes in the brain and has different causes and clinical manifestations, reflecting complex interactions between vascular etiologies, changes in the brain, host factors, and cognition. Critical elements to the concept and diagnosis of VaD are defining the vascular causes, the vascular etiologies, and changes in the brain. Verifying the relation between brain lesions and cognition (i.e., the extent to which brain changes cause, compound, or coexist with cognitive impairment) and establishing the types, extent, side, site, and tempo of brain lesions that relate to incident cognitive impairment are major diagnostic challenges. Previous work on interactions between brain lesion and cognition in to cerebrovascular disease (CVD) have shown variation in the definitions and measures of cognitive impairment, in the techniques and methods used to reveal different brain changes, and in the selection of patient populations. Furthermore, small sample sizes and the absence of multivariate statistics have been design limitations. Accordingly, the different sets of criteria used and methods applied identify different numbers and clusters of subjects and different distribution of brain changes. Furthermore, this heterogeneity is reflected in variation in natural history such as the rate of progression of decline in different cognitive domains over time. All these factors have hampered optimal designs of clinical drug trials. A summary of generalizations regarding lesion and cognition interaction in VaD can be made. (1) Not a single feature, but a combination of infarct features--extent and type of white matter lesions (WMLs), degree and site of atrophy, and host factor characteristics--constitues correlates of VaD. (2) Infarct features favoring VaD include bilaterality, multiplicity (&gt;1), location in the dominant hemisphere, and location in the limbic structures (fronto- and mediolimbic). (3) WML features favoring VaD are extensive WMLs (extensive periventricular WMLs and confluent to extensive WMLs in the deep WM). (4) It is doubtful that only a single small lesion could provide imaging evidence for a diagnosis of VaD. (5) Absence of CVD lesions on computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging is strong evidence against a diagnosis of VaD. In forthcoming protocols on CVD-associated cognitive impairment, the following brain imaging features should be specified: detailed characterization of brain changes; use of possible predefined subtypes based on brain imaging; use of rating of vascular burden; defining the type and extent of WMLs favoring a diagnosis of VaD; defining the extent of medial temporal lobe atrophy disfavoring a diagnosis of VaD; and technical harmonization of methods of scanning and analysis.

Cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy (CADASIL) is a hereditary disease that is characterized by recurrent stroke episodes and focal neurologic deficits progressing to pseudobulbar palsy and dementia. The causative gene is the Notch3 gene on chromosome 19, and 22 missense mutations have been identified in Caucasian patients to date. To perform mutational analysis of the Notch3 gene, we identified its exon intron boundaries and prepared sets of primers for amplification of each exon. Using these primers, we determined the Notch3 gene in a Japanese family with CADASIL symptoms and found a missense mutation (Arg133Cys) in exon 4. The mutation was heterozygous and cosegregated with the disease. Thus, the Notch3 gene is responsible for CADASIL in patients across different ethnic groups.
Over the past 4 years, a number of investigators have reported findings suggestive of linkage to schizophrenia, with markers on chromosomes 13q32 and 8p21, with one recent study by Blouin et al. reporting significant linkage to these regions. As part of an ongoing genome scan, we evaluated microsatellite markers spanning chromosomes 8 and 13, for linkage to schizophrenia, in 21 extended Canadian families. Families were analyzed under autosomal dominant and recessive models, with broad and narrow definitions of schizophrenia. All models produced positive LOD scores with markers on 13q, with higher scores under the recessive models. The maximum three-point LOD scores were obtained under the recessive-broad model: 3.92 at recombination fraction (theta).1 with D13S793, under homogeneity, and 4.42 with alpha=.65 and straight theta=0 with D13S793, under heterogeneity. Positive LOD scores were also obtained, under all models, for markers on 8p. Although a maximum two-point LOD score of 3.49 was obtained under the dominant-narrow model with D8S136 at straight theta=0.1, multipoint analysis with closely flanking markers reduced the maximum LOD score in this region to 2. 13. These results provide independent significant evidence of linkage of a schizophrenia-susceptibility locus to markers on 13q32 and support the presence of a second susceptibility locus on 8p21.
We report the first missense mutation in the mtDNA gene for subunit II of cytochrome c oxidase (COX). The mutation was identified in a 14-year-old boy with a proximal myopathy and lactic acidosis. Muscle histochemistry and mitochondrial respiratory-chain enzymology demonstrated a marked reduction in COX activity. Immunohistochemistry and immunoblot analyses with COX subunit-specific monoclonal antibodies showed a pattern suggestive of a primary mtDNA defect, most likely involving CO II, for COX subunit II (COX II). mtDNA-sequence analysis demonstrated a novel heteroplasmic T--&gt;A transversion at nucleotide position 7,671 in CO II. This mutation changes a methionine to a lysine residue in the middle of the first N-terminal membrane-spanning region of COX II. The immunoblot studies demonstrated a severe reduction in cross-reactivity, not only for COX II but also for the mtDNA-encoded subunit COX III and for nuclear-encoded subunits Vb, VIa, VIb, and VIc. Steady-state levels of the mtDNA-encoded subunit COX I showed a mild reduction, but spectrophotometric analysis revealed a dramatic decrease in COX I-associated heme a3 levels. These observations suggest that, in the COX protein, a structural association of COX II with COX I is necessary to stabilize the binding of heme a3 to COX I.

Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder involving select neurons of the hippocampus, neocortex, and other regions of the brain. Markers of end stage disease include fibrillar lesions, which accumulate hyperphosphorylated tau protein polymerized into filaments, and granulovacuolar lesions, which appear primarily within the hippocampus. The mechanism by which only select populations of neurons develop these lesions as well as the relationship between them is unknown. To address these questions, we have turned to AD tissue to search for enzymes specifically involved in tau hyperphosphorylation. Recently, we showed that the principal phosphotransferases associated with AD brain-derived tau filaments are members of the casein kinase-1 (CK1) family of protein kinases. Here we report the distribution of three CK1 isoforms (Ckialpha, Ckidelta, and Ckiepsilon) in AD and control brains using immunohistochemistry and Western analysis. In addition to colocalizing with elements of the fibrillar pathology, CK1 is found within the matrix of granulovacuolar degeneration bodies. Furthermore, levels of all CK1 isoforms are elevated in the CA1 region of AD hippocampus relative to controls, with one isoform, Ckidelta, being elevated &gt;30-fold. We propose that overexpression of this protein kinase family plays a key role in the hyperphosphorylation of tau and in the formation of AD-related pathology.
Phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase (PNMT)-containing neurons in the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM) are believed to play a role in cardiovascular regulation. To determine whether injection of anti-dopamine beta-hydroxylase (DbetaH)-saporin directly into the RVLM in rats could selectively destroy these cells and thereby provide an approach for evaluating their role in cardiovascular regulation, we studied rats 2 wk after unilateral injection of 21 ng anti-DbetaH-saporin into the RVLM. There was an approximately 90% reduction in the number of PNMT-positive neurons in the RVLM, although the number of non-C1, spinally projecting barosensitive neurons of this area was not altered. The A5 cell group was the only other population of DbetaH-containing cells that was significantly depleted. The depressor response evoked by injection of tyramine into the RVLM was abolished by prior injection of toxin. The pressor response evoked by injection of glutamate into the RVLM was attenuated ipsilateral to the toxin injection but was potentiated contralateral to the toxin injection. Thus anti-DbetaH-saporin can be used to make selective lesions of PNMT-containing cells, allowing for the evaluation of their role in cardiovascular regulation.
Nitric oxide (NO) released from a new chemical class of donors enhances N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) channel activity. Using whole cell and single-channel patch-clamp techniques, we have shown that (Z)-1-[N-(3-ammoniopropyl)-N-(n-propyl)amino]-NO (PAPA-NO) and diethylamine NO, commonly termed NONOates, potentiate the glutamate-mediated response of recombinant rat NMDA receptors (NR1/NR2A) expressed in HEK-293 cells. The overall effect is an increase in both peak and steady-state whole cell currents induced by glutamate. Single-channel studies demonstrate a significant increase in open probability but no change in the mean single-channel open time or mean channel conductance. Reduction in oxygen levels increased and prolonged the PAPA-NO-induced change in both peak and steady-state glutamate currents in transfected HEK cells. PAPA-NO also enhanced cell death in primary cultures of rodent cortical neurons deprived of oxygen and glucose. This potentiation of neuronal injury was blocked by MK-801, indicating a critical involvement of NMDA receptor activation. The NO-induced increase in NMDA channel activity as well as NMDA receptor-mediated cell death provide firm evidence that NO modulates the NMDA channel in a manner consistent with both a physiological role under normoxic conditions and a pathophysiological role under hypoxic conditions.

Retrograde labelling was combined with immunohistochemistry to localize neurons containing choline acetyltransferase, gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), glutamate, serotonin, somatostatin, Leu-enkephalin, neurotensin, and substance P-immunoreactivity in neurons projecting to the supramammillary nucleus in the rat. Injections of wheat germ agglutinin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase (WGA-HRP) into the supramammillary nucleus resulted in retrogradely labelled neurons in the medial septal nucleus, the nuclei of the diagonal band of Broca, the infralimbic cortex, the medial and lateral preoptic nucleus, the subiculum, the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus, the compact subnucleus of the central superior nucleus and the dorsal raphe nucleus. In the medial septal nucleus and in the nuclei of the diagonal band of Broca, 80-85% of WGA-HRP- labelled neurons (30-40 per section) were also immunoreactive for choline acetyltransferase and small numbers of WGA-HRP-labelled neurons were immunoreactive for GABA, glutamate, neurotensin or substance P. In the medial preoptic nucleus, 85-90% of retrogradely labelled neurons (25-30 per section) were immunoreactive for somatostatin and a few WGA-HRP-labelled neurons displayed neurotensin-immunoreactivity. In the rostroventral part of the subiculum, small numbers of retrogradely labelled neurons were also immunoreactive for neurotensin or for glutamate. In the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus, 90% of WGA-HRP-labelled neurons (20-25 per section) were immunoreactive for choline acetyltransferase and small numbers of retrogradely labelled neurons also displayed substance P immunoreactivity. In the compact subnucleus of the central superior nucleus, 50-60% of retrogradely labelled neurons (15-20 per section) were also immunolabelled for GABA and approximately 30-40% of WGA-HRP-labelled neurons (10-12 per section) were immunoreactive for Leu-enkephalin. The compact subnucleus of the central superior nucleus also contained small numbers of retrogradely labelled neurons that displayed neurotensin immunoreactivity. In the dorsal raphe nucleus, 80-85% of WGA-HRP- labelled neurons (30-40 per section) were also immunoreactive for serotonin and small numbers of retrogradely labelled neurons displayed neurotensin or glutamate immunoreactivity. These results suggest that the multiple neurochemicals contained in ascending and descending projections to the SuM participate in complex interactions in the transmission process of SuM neurons.
Acetylcholine receptor (AChR) deficiency is a recessively inherited congenital myasthenic syndrome in which fatigable muscle weakness results from impaired neuromuscular transmission caused by reduced AChR numbers. In mature muscle, AChRs consist of alpha2 betadelta together with the adult-specific epsilon subunit. We have identified a deletion of the first nucleotide in exon 12 of the AChR epsilon-subunit gene (epsilon1267delG) and demonstrate its recessive inheritance segregates with disease in 6 unrelated cases of AChR deficiency. In addition, we found that both healthy and AChR-deficient muscle contain a population of AChR epsilon-subunit mRNA transcripts that retain intron 11. We investigated the possible consequences of combining this mutation with the alternative mRNA species through AChR expression studies in human embryonic kidney cells and Xenopus oocytes. Epsilon1267delG generates a polypeptide that lacks M4 and is not detected in surface AChR, whereas retention of intron 11 in the RNA transcript restores the reading frame, conserves M4, and generates a polypeptide that is incorporated into functional surface AChR, although at a reduced level, consistent with the disease phenotype. Our results indicate that for some AChR deficiency mutations located between M3 and M4, the retention of intron 11 in the epsilon-subunit mRNA transcripts may rescue adult AChR function.





The effect of the CB1 cannabinoid receptor agonist WIN 55,212-2 on intravenous cocaine self-administration (IVSA) in rats was evaluated. Male Long Evans rats were implanted with silastic catheters through the external jugular vein. The IVSA was conducted in 3-h daily sessions with a fixed ratio (FR1) schedule: the experimental apparatus had a nose-poking response-like operandum. Intravenous pre-treatment with WIN 55,212-2 (0.25, 0.5 and 1 mg/kg) to rats self-administering cocaine (0.25 or 0.5 mg/kg/inj) at stable baseline, reduces cocaine intake in a dose-dependent manner. The CB1 receptor antagonist SR 141716A (3 mg/kg i.p.) completely reversed the WIN 55,212-2-induced decrease of cocaine intake. However, pre-treatment of SR 141716A alone (up to dose of 9 mg/kg i.p.) was unable to modify cocaine IVSA. These results indicate that stimulation of CB1 cannabinoid receptors activates rewarding mechanisms which produce reinforcing effects additional to those induced by cocaine.
Previous work has established that the development of cocaine sensitization is prevented by co-administration of the non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonist MK-801 or by prior ibotenic acid lesions of the medial prefrontal cortex (PFC). The present study examined the effect of these treatments on the expression of cocaine sensitization. Rats were treated with 15 mg/kg cocaine for 5 days and then challenged with cocaine 3 days later to establish the presence of sensitization. The next day, rats received 0.1 mg/kg MK-801 30 min before cocaine challenge. This dose of MK-801, which is sufficient to prevent the development of cocaine sensitization, did not prevent its expression. Rather, it augmented the response of sensitized rats to cocaine challenge and produced a non-significant trend towards augmentation of the acute response to cocaine in saline-pretreated rats. For PFC lesion experiments, rats were sensitized to cocaine and then received either ibotenic acid or sham lesions of the PFC. One week later, all rats were challenged with cocaine. Sham lesioned and ibotenic acid lesioned rats exhibited the same degree of sensitization. Thus, neither NMDA receptor transmission nor PFC projections appear necessary for the expression of cocaine sensitization.
Many neuroscientists and philosophers endorse a view about the explanatory reach of neuroscience (which we will call the neuron doctrine) to the effect that the framework for understanding the mind will be developed by neuroscience; or, as we will put it, that a successful theory of the mind will be solely neuroscientific. It is a consequence of this view that the sciences of the mind that cannot be expressed by means of neuroscientific concepts alone count as indirect sciences that will be discarded as neuroscience matures. This consequence is what makes the doctrine substantive, indeed, radical. We ask, first, what the neuron doctrine means and, second, whether it is true. In answer to the first question, we distinguish two versions of the doctrine. One version, the trivial neuron doctrine, turns out to be uncontroversial but unsubstantive because it fails to have the consequence that the nonneuroscientific sciences of the mind will eventually be discarded. A second version, the radical neuron doctrine, does have this consequence, but, unlike the first doctrine, is highly controversial. We argue that the neuron doctrine appears to be both substantive and uncontroversial only as a result of a conflation of these two versions. We then consider whether the radical doctrine is true. We present and evaluate three arguments for it, based either on general scientific and philosophical considerations or on the details of neuroscience itself, arguing that all three fail. We conclude that the evidence fails to support the radical neuron doctrine.
Interleukin-2 (IL-2), released from activated T cells, influences central neurochemical functioning, and IL-2 immunotherapy in cancer patients may provoke neuropsychiatric and cognitive disturbances. In this study, acute, systemic IL-2 did not influence Morris water-maze performance in mice. In contrast, chronic IL-2 impaired performance when the position of the escape platform varied over days but was without effect when the platform position was fixed. These effects could not be attributed to illness, because IL-1beta, which induces marked malaise, did not influence water-maze performance. Chronic IL-2 produced modest reductions in exploration and approach to a novel stimulus, effects not seen after acute treatment, but did not influence spontaneous alternation performance or behavior in an elevated plus-maze test. Thus, repeated IL-2 may influence spatial working memory without affecting habituation/ attentional processes or anxiety.
Rats with kainate-colchicine hippocampal lesions (HL) and controls (C) were initially trained in the Morris water maze with procedures that deterred their prepotent thigmotaxic response. Training began with an escape platform that occupied nearly the entire pool. The area to which the rats could escape was made smaller by substituting smaller platforms as training progressed. In contrast to standard procedures, HL rats and C rats showed comparable performance during acquisition and preferentially searched the goal quadrant on probe trials during which the platform was removed. In a follow-up experiment, the platform was moved to a random position along the wall, which required a switch to a thigmotaxic response for most effective escape. HL rats that were thigmotaxic before place training did not switch to a thigmotaxic response as readily as did controls, behavior consistent with the view that hippocampal damage reduces pliancy.
The release of Ca(2+) from intracellular stores is an important trigger for secretion in many cell types. Depending on the spatial relationship between the intracellular Ca(2+) stores and the site of exocytosis, the Ca(2+) signal can be very local or spread throughout the entire cell. Here, we review how the release of Ca(2+) from inositol trisphospate (IP(3))-sensitive stores contributes differently to the stimulus-secretion coupling in three types of secretory cells (acinar cells of the pancreas, gonadotrophs, and corticotrophs of the anterior pituitary gland). We propose that in both pancreatic acinar cells and pituitary gonadotrophs the IP(3)-sensitive stores may be in close proximity to the sites of exocytosis such that the concentration of Ca(2+) at these sites are transiently much higher than the average cytosolic Ca(2+) concentration. In contrast, the local Ca(2+) gradient is less prominent in pituitary corticotrophs. Finally, some recent technical developments that may contribute significantly to future investigations of local Ca(2+) signals are discussed.
Recent advances in cellular and molecular biology have resulted in the identification of two novel, hitherto completely unexpected targets of lithium's actions, discoveries that may have a major impact on the future use of this unique cation in biology and medicine. Chronic lithium treatment has been demonstrated to markedly increase the levels of the major neuroprotective protein, bcl-2 in rat frontal cortex, hippocampus, and striatum. Similar lithium-induced increases in bcl-2 are also observed in cells of human neuronal origin, and are observed in rat frontal cortex at lithium levels as low as approximately 0.3 mmol/L. Bcl-2 is widely regarded as a major neuroprotective protein, and genetic strategies that increase bcl-2 levels have demonstrated not only robust protection of neurons against diverse insults, but have also demonstrated an increase the regeneration of mammalian CNS axons. Lithium has also been demonstrated to inhibit glycogen synthase kinase 3 beta (GSK-3 beta), an enzyme known to regulate the levels of phosphorylated tau and beta-catenin (both of which may play a role in the neurodegeneration observed in Alzheimer's disease). Consistent with the increases in bcl-2 levels and inhibition of GSK-3 beta, lithium has been demonstrated to exert robust protective effects against diverse insults both in vitro and in vivo. These findings suggest that lithium may exert some of its long term beneficial effects in the treatment of mood disorders via underappreciated neuroprotective effects. To date, lithium remains the only medication demonstrated to markedly increase bcl-2 levels in several brain areas; in the absence of other adequate treatments, the potential efficacy of lithium in the long term treatment of certain neurodegenerative disorders may be warranted.
Arvicanthis niloticus is a diurnal murid rodent from sub-Saharan Africa. Here we report on processes associated with mating in this species in an attempt to elucidate how the neural mechanisms governing temporal organization differ in nocturnal and diurnal species. First, we systematically mapped the distribution of GnRH neurons in adult females. Second, we tested the hypothesis that Arvicanthis differ from nocturnal murid rodents with respect to the timing of the LH surge and the associated increase in Fos expression in GnRH-immunoreactive (IR) neurons. We examined these events around a postpartum estrus. When parturition occurred between zeitgeber time (ZT) 2 and 17 (lights on at ZT 0 and off at ZT 12; there are 24 ZT units a day, each equivalent to 1 standard hour), we collected blood and perfused females at ZT 17, 20, 23, or 2. A sharp peak in plasma LH occurred at ZT 20, and a 10-fold increase in the percentage of GnRH-IR neurons that expressed Fos-IR occurred between ZT 17 and 20. By contrast, this rise occurs in nocturnal rodents during the last few hours of the light period. This is the first indication of a difference between nocturnal and diurnal animals with respect to neural mechanisms associated with a precisely timed event of known significance.
We report the case of a middle aged woman who developed refractory complex partial seizures in her early twenties. She had a right coloboma and neurological examination was normal. Neuropsychological assessments revealed mild impairments of non-verbal memory, and visuospatial and constructional difficulties. Serial CT and MRI showed multiple nodular abnormalities in her mid-brain, diencephalon, subependymal region and both mesial temporal lobes. EEG recording revealed a right medial temporal focus. She underwent en bloc temporal lobectomy. The surgical pathology revealed mesial temporal dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumour (DNET) in association with extensive, contiguous neocortical dysplasia. The proliferation marker MIB-1 revealed up to 2% labelling in tumour areas resembling conventional oligodendroglioma. In the two years since surgery she has been seizure free and the remaining MR brain abnormalities have not changed. The very unusual centripetal MRI pattern of discrete multifocal lesions with the characteristic T1 and T2 features of DNET would support the dysembyroplastic germinal origin that was proposed by Daumas-Duport et al. (1988) in their original description of the lesion. The neuroradiological, neuropathological and clinical features of this case are compared with the two previous cases of multifocal DNET.
1. The 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) receptors mediating vasoconstriction in isolated human small muscular pulmonary arteries (SMPAs) were determined using techniques of wire myography and reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT - PCR). 2. The agonists 5-HT, 5-carboxamidotryptamine (5-CT, unselective for 5-HT1 receptors) and sumatriptan (selective for 5-HT1B/D receptors) all caused contraction and were equipotent (pEC50s: 7.0+/-0.2, 7.1+/-0.3 and 6.7+/-0.1, respectively) suggesting the presence of a 5-HT1 receptor. 3. Ketanserin (5-HT2A-selective antagonist, 0.1 microM) inhibited 5-HT-induced contractions only at non-physiological/pathological concentrations of 5-HT (&gt;0.1 microM) whilst GR55562 (5-HT1B/1D-selective antagonist, 1 microM) inhibited 5-HT-induced contractions at all concentrations of 5-HT (estimated pKB=7.7+/-0.2). SB-224289 (5-HT1B-selective antagonist, 0.2 microM) inhibited sumatriptan-induced contractions (estimated pKB=8.4+/-0.1) whilst these were unaffected by the 5-HT1D-selective antagonist BRL15572 (0.5 microM) suggesting that the 5-HT1B receptor mediates vasoconstriction in this vessel. 4. RT - PCR confirmed the presence of substantial amounts of mRNA for the 5-HT2A and 5-HT1B receptor subtypes in these arteries whilst only trace amounts of 5-HT1D receptor message were evident. 5. These findings suggest that a heterogeneous population of 5-HT2A and 5-HT1B receptors co-exist in human small muscular pulmonary arteries but that the 5-HT1B receptor mediates 5-HT-induced vasoconstriction at physiological and pathophysiological concentrations of 5-HT. These results have important implications for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension in which the 5-HT1B receptor may provide a novel and potentially important therapeutic target.
1. A functional tachykinin NK3 receptor was cloned from the rabbit iris sphincter muscle and its distribution investigated in ocular tissues. 2. Standard polymerase chain reaction (PCR) techniques were used to clone a full length rabbit NK3 receptor cDNA consisting of 1404 nucleotides. This cDNA encoded a protein of 467 amino acids with 91 and 87% homology to the human and rat NK3 receptors respectively. 3. In CHO-K1 cells transiently expressing the recombinant rabbit NK3 receptor, the relative order of potency of NKB&gt;NKA&gt;/=SP to displace [125I]-[MePhe7]-NKB binding and to increase intracellular calcium, together with the high affinity of NK3 selective agonists (e.g. senktide, [MePhe7]-NKB) and antagonists (e.g. SR 142801, SB 223412) in both assays was consistent with NK3 receptor pharmacology. In binding and functional experiments, agonist concentration response curves were shallow (0.7 - 0.8), suggesting the possibility of multiple affinity states of the receptor. 4. Quantitative real time PCR analysis revealed highest expression of rabbit NK3 receptor mRNA in iris sphincter muscle, lower expression in retina and iris dilator muscle, and no expression in lens and cornea. In situ hybridization histochemistry revealed discrete specific localization of NK3 receptor mRNA in the iris muscle and associated ciliary processes. Discrete specific labelling of NK3 receptors with the selective NK3 receptor agonist [125I]-[MePhe7]-NKB was also observed in the ciliary processes using autoradiography. 5. Our study reveals a high molecular similarity between rabbit and human NK3 receptor mRNAs, as predicted from previous pharmacological studies, and provide the first evidence that NK3 receptors are precisely located on ciliary processes in the rabbit eye. In addition, there could be two affinity states of the receptor which may correspond to the typical and 'atypical' NK3 receptor subtypes previously reported.
The effects of stimulation through macroelectrodes implanted in the subthalamic nucleus (STN) were studied in 14 patients with parkinsonism. Single stimuli delivered directly to the STN electrodes with an external stimulator modulated voluntary electromyography (EMG) of contralateral muscles in most patients. A short-latency facilitation ('peak') was attributed to the activation of the corticospinal system. A longer latency inhibition ('dip'), often preceded or followed by facilitations, appeared to arise from the activation of large-diameter fibres running parallel to the electrode and to be transmitted through the motor cortex. It is possible that the dip could result from the inhibition of thalamocortical neurons. With high-frequency stimulation ( approximately 100 Hz) the peaks occurred at the stimulus frequency; the dips became confluent and outlasted the duration of the stimulus train. There was no evidence that high-frequency stimulation produced 'blocking'. The studies were repeated in 12 patients a mean of 5.8 months after implantation of the stimulator. The same short-latency effects were obtained. They were present on 7 out of 23 sides at the settings in use and on the majority of sides if the stimulus intensity was slightly increased. There was no clear relationship between these short-latency effects and the patients' overall clinical improvement; the effects may result from the spread of current to large-fibre systems near the STN. In five patients, high-frequency stimulation on one side immediately reduced tremor in the contralateral limbs. This effect arose from the activation of large-diameter fibres and, like the dip, had about the same threshold at each of the contacts. Frequencies as low as 70 Hz were sufficient. We conclude that the control of tremor by STN stimulation is due to the activation of a large-fibre system.
Partial epileptic seizures are known to cause a focal increase in cerebral blood flow (CBF). However, quantified studies of ictal CBF changes under intracranial EEG control are still needed to assess the relationships in time and space between CBF changes and electrical discharges. Ten patients undergoing an intracerebral stereotaxic EEG (stereo-EEG) investigation for epilepsy surgery were prospectively studied for local perfusion changes. These were measured by H(2)(15)O-PET during 12 subclinical or mild symptomatic focal epileptic discharges induced by intracerebral electrical stimulation of the hippocampus (eight), amygdala (two), temporal pole (one) and fusiform gyrus (one). This study aimed to assess whether a significant focal blood flow change reflected the geographical extent of the underlying coincident epileptic discharge, as measured by this method at seizure onset. No significant CBF change was observed on test-retest at rest or during ineffective electrical stimulations outside the epileptogenic area. Compared with the resting condition, a significant focal perfusion increase of 16-55% occurred during eight discharges, there was no CBF change in three and a significant CBF decrease in one. Ictal CBF increases were mostly associated with low-voltage fast activity, but their magnitude had no obvious link with the duration of the discharge (range 8-106 s). Regional analysis of ictal PET was performed in 10 anatomical areas during each of the 12 discharges. Of all the 120 regions, 59 were not explored by intracerebral electrodes and 14 (24%) of these demonstrated ictal CBF changes. In 43 of the 61 regions explored by stereo-EEG (70.5%), PET and depth EEG findings converged, showing either a CBF change in a discharging area or no CBF change in a region unaffected by the discharge. Areas of increased CBF indicated an underlying epileptic discharge in almost 100% of the cases. Conversely, of the 18 regions showing discrepancies between intracerebral recordings and PET data, 17 were discharging regions showing no ictal CBF changes. Thus, a focal CBF increase, when detected at the seizure onset concomitantly with the initial low-voltage fast activity, was a reliable marker of an underlying epileptic discharge. It emphasizes the importance of injecting blood-flow tracers as soon as possible after detection of the discharge in routine clinical studies, even at a subclinical stage of the seizure. However, the extent of significant ictal CBF changes can be more restricted than that of the electrical discharge, thus limiting the reliability of ictal CBF images for outlining the contours of a tailored cortectomy.
Among the numerous neurodegenerative diseases in children few may allow morphological diagnosis by extracerebral biopsy. These encompass neurometabolic conditions, foremost lysosomal disorders, but also peroxisomal and mitochondrial diseases marked by disease- or group-specific organelles. Largely, these neurometabolic conditions can also be diagnosed by biochemical and increasingly by molecular genetic techniques. However, there are a few neurodegenerative diseases which do not allow either biochemical or molecular genetic diagnosis and, thus, rely on biopsy of extracerebral tissues, so-called 'essential' biopsies to achieve a diagnosis during the patient's life. Among these few disorders only Lafora disease, as other polyglucosan disorders, may be considered a neurometabolic disease, whereas in the others, neuroaxonal dystrophies, giant axonal neuropathy and neuronal intranuclear inclusion disease no metabolic abnormalities are known, but these disorders share the peripheral nervous system as a common site of their disease-specific morphological lesions. With the progress of molecular genetics and the fact that many neurodegenerative diseases are familial, it is expected that the number of neurodegenerative disorders and the number of patients afflicted with these diseases, currently subject to diagnostic extracerebral biopsies, will be continuously reduced. Thus, it is foreseeable that within the next few years or decades diagnostic electron microscopy and the related knowledge of respective ultrastructural pathology may become outmoded, and, possibly, unknown to future generations of neuropathologists and other members of the neuroscience community.
Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are the treatment of choice for pathological crying after brain injury, independent of accompanying depression. In a series of 26 consecutive patients with acquired brain damage and episodes of involuntary crying, the efficacy and tolerability of paroxetine and citalopram were compared. The severity of pathological crying or laughing was rated based on clinical interviews with symptom provocation. The first 13 patients were treated with paroxetine and another 13 patients received citalopram in single daily doses of 10 to 40 mg. Rapid onset (within 1-3 days) and highly significant (p &lt; 0.001) improvements of emotionalism were observed after both paroxetine and citalopram. There were no efficacy differences, despite the longer symptom duration in the citalopram group. The only adverse effect after paroxetine was nausea, which was reversible, in two patients, and nausea with vomiting in another two patients, who were switched to citalopram. Citalopram was tolerated without adverse effects.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Lewy body disease (LBD) are the most common causes of dementia in the elderly population. Previous studies have shown that cognitive alterations in these disorders are associated with synaptic loss. Injury and loss of synapses might be associated with altered function of synaptic proteins. Among them, recent studies have shown that abnormal aggregation and accumulation of synaptic proteins, such as alpha-synuclein, might be associated with plaque formation in AD and Lewy body formation in LBD. Further reinforcing the hypothesis that alpha-synuclein plays a major role in the pathogenesis of these disorders, recent work has shown that mutations that alter the conformation of this molecule are associated with familial forms of Parkinson's disease. The mechanisms by which altered function or aggregation of alpha-synuclein might lead to neurodegeneration are not completely clear; however, new evidence points to a potential role for this molecule in synaptic damage and neurotoxicity via amyloid-like fibril formation and mitochondrial dysfunction. In this manuscript we review the data linking alpha-synuclein to the pathogenesis of AD and LBD.
The presence of tau-positive glial inclusions has been recently found a consistent feature in the brains of patients with progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), corticobasal degeneration (CBD) and Pick's disease (PiD). These inclusions are classified based on cellular origin as tau-positive astrocytes, presumably either fibrillary or protoplasmic, coiled bodies and glial threads. Immunohistochemically, their major structural component is abnormal tau proteins, similar to those found in Alzheimer's disease. Nevertheless, their morphology, including ultrastructural profile, has been suggested to be distinctive for each disease. The profile and extent of particular glial inclusions correlate well with disease phenotype. Highly characteristic correlations include tufts of abnormal fibers in PSP, astrocytic plaques and dense glial threads in CBD and ramified astrocytes and small Pick body-like inclusions in PiD. The significance of the inclusions in disease pathogenesis and their biochemical characteristics remain to be clarified. Nevertheless, these distinctive glial lesions most likely reflect fundamental alterations in isoform composition of tau as well as its specific cellular and regional expression in sporadic tauopathies.
It is proposed that brain evolution in nonhuman primates and humans was facilitated by heritable differences in neuroplasticity and in the number of neurons and synapses available during childhood and adolescence, therefore, in differences in modifiability and elaboration of neuronal networks in brains of immature primate genotypes. These differences were exploited when a primate population was forced to adapt to a new cognitively or behaviorally demanding milieu, to select more cognitively and brain competent adults who could best compete and reproduce in this new milieu, extending their genes within the population. Two recently solidified concepts suggest a mechanism for this evolutionary process: (1) &quot;Association&quot; neocortex can be activated by attention and ideation in the absence of sensory or motor contributions, as demonstrated by in vivo imaging and direct brain recording. (2) Activation of the immature brain can promote and stabilize neuronal networks that would disappear or otherwise lose their function by adulthood. Taking these two ideas together, it is proposed that the &quot;thought&quot; processes of attention and ideation, when used by immature primates to adapt to new cognitive or behavioral stresses, led by the repeated selection of genotype to more cognitively able, larger-brained species with more extensive &quot;association&quot; cortex and related regions.
Several lines of evidence have implicated the amyloid precursor protein (APP) and its metabolic products as key players in Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathophysiology. The approximately 100 amino acid C-terminal fragment (C100) of APP has been shown to accumulate intracellularly in neurons expressing familial AD (FAD) mutants of APP and to cause neurodegeneration when expressed in transfected neuronal cells. Transgenic animals expressing this fragment in the brain also exhibit some neuropathological and behavioral AD-like deficits. Here, we present evidence that PC12 cells expressing the C100 fragment either via stable transfections or herpes simplex virus-mediated infections show alterations in calcium handling that are similar to those previously shown in fibroblasts from AD patients. This alteration in calcium homeostasis may contribute to the deleterious effects of C100 in PC12 cells. Our data also lend support for a pathophysiological role for C100 since it induces an alteration thought to play an important role in AD pathology.
The inverse problem arising from EEG and MEG is largely underdetermined. One strategy to alleviate this problem is the restriction to a limited number of point-like sources, the focal source model. Although the singular value decomposition of the spatio-temporal data gives an estimate of the minimal number of dipoles contributing to the measurement, the exact number is unknown in advance and noise complicates the reconstruction. Classical non-regularized nonlinear dipole fit algorithms do not give an estimate for the correct number because they are not stable with regard to an overestimation of this parameter. Too many sources may only describe noise but can still attain a large magnitude during the inverse procedure and may be indiscernible from the true sources. This paper describes a nonlinear dipole fit reconstruction algorithm with a new regularization approach for the embedded linear problem, automatically controlled by the noise in the data and the condition of the occuring least square problems. The algorithm is stable with regard to source components which &quot;nearly&quot; lie in the kernel of the projection or lead field operator and it thus gives an estimate of the unknown number parameter. EEG simulation studies in a simulated sulcus structure are carried out for an instantaneous dipole model and spatial resolution in the sulcus and stability of the new method are compared with a classical reconstruction algorithm without regularization.


Nitric oxide (NO)-related species include different redox states of the NO group, which have recently been reported to exist endogenously in biological tissues including the brain. The importance of these different NO-related species is that their distinct chemical reactivities can influence the life and death of neurons in response to various insults. In the case of NO+ equivalents (having one less electron than NO.), the mechanism of reaction often involves S-nitrosylation or transfer of the NO group to the sulfhydryl of a cysteine residue (or more properly to a thiolate anion) to form an RS-NO; further oxidation of critical thiols can possibly then form disulfide bonds from neighboring cysteine residues. We have mounted both physiological and chemical evidence that N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) activity and caspase enzyme activity can be decreased by S-nitrosylation, as can other signaling molecules involved in neuronal apoptotic pathways, to afford neuroprotection. Over the past 5 years, beginning with our report on the NMDAR, evidence has accumulated that S-nitrosylation can regulate the biological activity of a great variety of proteins, in some ways akin to phosphorylation. Thus, this chemical reaction is gaining acceptance as a newly-recognized molecular switch to control protein function via reactive thiol groups, such as those encountered on the NMDAR and in the active site of caspases. One method of producing S-nitrosylation of the NMDAR and caspases is the administration of nitroglycerin, and nitroglycerin can be neuroprotective in acute focal ischemia/reperfusion models via mechanisms other than increasing cerebral blood flow. In contrast, NO* itself does not appear to react with thiol under physiological conditions. In fact, the favored reaction of NO* is with O2*- (superoxide anion) to form ONOO- (peroxynitrite), which can lead to neurotoxicity. A third NO-related species with one added electron compared to NO* is nitroxyl anion (NO-). NO- -unlike NO* but reminiscent of NO+ transfer - reacts with critical thiol groups of the NMDA receptor to curtail excessive Ca2+ influx and thus provide neuroprotection from excitotoxic insults.
We investigated three-dimensional, depth-encoded line representations of neocortical sulci calculated from magnetic resonance image (MRI) datasets of 19 pairs of normal monozygotic twins. Monozygotic co-twins were significantly more alike than control pairs of unrelated twins matched from the same sample. Sulcal depth influenced sulcal similarity, with deeper sulci being more similar than superficial sulci. This was true both for the pairs of related co-twins and for the unrelated pairs, although the sulcal depth effect was stronger for the related twins. Our results indicate that the shape of deep (ontogenetically early) sulci of the human brain is more strongly predetermined than that of superficial sulci. The finding that sulcal similarity increased with sulcal depth especially within monozygotic twin pairs should stimulate further investigations of the relative importance of genetic versus shared environmental morphogenetic factors that must account for this result. In addition, we found that subjects with similar brain shape also have more similar sulcal patterns, suggesting that both features are the result of ontogenetically related processes. Sulcal comparisons across the entire sample suggested that the left posterior lateral hemispheric surface may be the least variable brain area. Methodologically, these results were obtained by the representation of sulci as three-dimensional polygonal lines (termed 'sulcal cuts') that are extracted automatically from MRI data sets using new image analysis techniques.
In the present work we discuss several sampling procedures commonly used for counting synapses in the cerebral cortex. We compare, within the same tissue, two frequently used sterereological methods for determining the numerical density of synapses per unit volume, using as an example the estimation of the number of types of synapses by layers in the neuropil of the adult human temporal neocortex. These two methods are a size-frequency method (formula N(A)/d) and the disector method (sigmaQ-/a x h). Since the size-frequency method is assumption-based and the disector method is considered to be an unbiased method, the latter is often recommended for the quantification of synapses and other objects. We obtained, however, similar estimates for the numerical density of the different types of synapses using both methods, although they presented different technical difficulties and statistical properties. In addition, we show that the size-frequency method is more efficient and easier to apply than the disector method. Nevertheless, there are other methods for quantification which may also be valid, depending on the aim of the research; but the data reported in many articles are often complicated, which makes it very difficult for the reader to follow all the steps of the calculation. If certain basic information were given, this would facilitate the interpretation and sharing of important information with other laboratories, regardless of the method used for quantification. Finally, based on our present results and previous literature, we propose a simple general protocol for estimating the numerical synaptic density by volume in the neuropil of the cerebral cortex.
In normal man, the centrally active alpha2-adrenoceptor agonist clonidine reduces arginine-vasopressin (AVP) secretion, probably by presynaptic inhibition of noradrenergic neuron terminals in the supraoptic nucleus. A lesion of noradrenergic pathways in animals abolishes this response to clonidine. At postmortem in multiple system atrophy (MSA) there is marked loss of hypothalamic noradrenergic innervation. We hypothesized that the AVP response to clonidine in MSA may be abnormal and therefore studied the AVP response to clonidine (2 microg/ kg iv) in 10 subjects with MSA and compared them to six healthy age-matched control subjects. Basal levels of AVP were similar in controls and MSA. Following clonidine there was a significantly greater fall in controls than MSA (-47 +/- 4% vs -25 +/- 6%; p &lt; 0.05). There was a similar fall in mean arterial pressure (MAP) and plasma catecholamines in both groups, with no change in plasma osmolarity, excluding these as a contributary factor. In conclusion, there is an abnormal AVP response to clonidine in MSA, which probably represents loss of functional noradrenergic innervation of the supraoptic nucleus.
1. The mammalian anterior pituitary was not known to be directly regulated by nervous elements until recently. Although it is generally acknowledged that there are a small number of nerve fibres in the anterior pituitary, they are considered to be autonomic in nature and are not directly involved in the regulation of the activities of the gland cells. 2. A growing body of evidence has been accumulated in the past decade, mainly from our laboratory, indicating that the anterior pituitary can be directly regulated by nerve fibres innervating it. The present article reviews the evidence for the hypothesis that there is neural-humoral dual regulation of the mammalian anterior pituitary. 3. Human, macaque monkey, dog and rat anterior pituitaries have been used for immunocytochemical studies at light and electron microscopic levels. Studies of the changes in the nerve fibres in the anterior pituitary following adrenalectomy or ovariectomy have been conducted on rats. The effects of electrical stimulation of the nerve fibres in the anterior pituitary on adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) secretion have also been studied. 4. There are substantial amounts of nerve fibres in the anterior pituitary. They are in close proximity to the gland cells, including forming synapses. The number of nerve terminals are large. Adrenalectomy or ovariectomy induces an active response of the nerve fibres and electrical stimulation of the nerve fibres changes ACTH secretion. 5. It has been concluded that the anterior pituitary can be directly regulated by the innervating nerve fibres.

Surgery and accidental trauma are associated with a transient period of insulin resistance, substrate catabolism and muscle weakness. In the present study, we evaluated the changes in the force-generating capacity of chemically skinned single muscle fibres following abdominal surgery. Biopsies of the m. vastus lateralis were obtained in three patients 1 day before and 3 or 6 days after surgery. Part of the biopsy was frozen for histochemical analysis of the fibre cross-sectional area (FCSA) and myofibrillar protein content, and another part was used for single-fibre contractile measurements. All patients developed insulin resistance following surgery. The maximum velocity of unloaded shortening of single muscle fibres did not change following surgery. The FCSA did not decrease after surgery, as determined either from histochemical sections or from single fibres measured at a fixed sarcomere length of 2.76+/-0.09 microm (mean+/-S.D.). Further, the force-generating capacity of the single fibres, measured as maximal Ca(2+)-activated force (P(0)) or as P(0) normalized to FCSA (specific tension), remained unchanged, as did the myofibrillar protein content of the muscle. In conclusion, the muscle weakness associated with post-operative insulin resistance is not related to a decreased specific tension or a loss of myofibrillar proteins. Other potential cellular mechanisms underlying post-operative weakness are discussed.

The mechanisms that produce paraplegia in patients after TAA repair are complex and involve alterations in regional blood flow to the spinal cord, CSF dynamics, and reperfusion. Although neither the minimal level of blood flow nor the maximal spinal cord pressure that can be tolerated by the spinal cord is known, adjuncts such as CSF drainage and naloxone infusions may allow longer durations of aortic cross-clamping before irreversible ischemia occurs. Because paraplegia is multifactorial and none of the recommended adjuncts alone provides complete protection of the spinal cord, a combination of treatments may be necessary to reduce the prevalence of neurological complications after thoracoabdominal aortic reconstruction. Critical care nurses thus must be acquainted with the advanced monitoring techniques and the pathophysiology behind these new treatment modalities. Advanced assessment skills are also essential to recognize the potential neurological complications that may occur in these patients. Care of patients with TAA is a challenge. Critical care nurses must use multidimensional skills in the areas of hemodynamic monitoring, physical assessment, and psychological counseling to effectively manage postoperative care of these patients.

Significant recent advances in basic and clinical science have improved our understanding of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS). Sensory abnormalities, particularly visceral hypersensitivity after sensitizing stimulation, indicate neural dysfunction in patients with IBS. This dysfunction could be mediated by N-methyl-D-aspartate or calcium gene-related peptide receptors in the spinal cord. The stress response in the gut is augmented in IBS, which may be related to hypothalamic release of corticotropin-releasing factor. Postinfectious IBS may be related to psychologic factors that allow persistent inflammation. Finally, functional brain imaging has shown augmented central nervous system responses to visceral pain in IBS, particularly in the prefrontal cortex. Low-dose tricyclic antidepressants are useful to control symptoms, and the new serotonin type 3 (5-HT3) receptor antagonists show promise for symptom control.

Studies of neurotrophins and Trk receptors in jawless fish have shed light on the course of events underlying the formation of these gene families. They evolved early in vertebrate history during major gene duplication events, before the appearance of cartilaginous fish. The existence of multiple genes has permitted the diversification of neurotrophin and Trk receptor expression, and thereby enabling the acquisition of specific functions in selective neuronal populations.
Transgenic approaches have recently been used to investigate the functions of neuronal intermediate filaments. Gene knockout studies have demonstrated that neurofilaments are not required for axogenesis and that individual neurofilament proteins play distinct roles in filament assembly and in the radial growth of axons. The involvement of neurofilaments in disease is supported by the discovery of novel mutations in the neurofilament heavy gene from cases of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and by reports of neuronal death in mouse models expressing neurofilament and alpha-internexin transgenes. However, mouse studies have shown that axonal neurofilaments are not required for pathogenesis caused by mutations in superoxide dismutase and that increasing perikaryal levels of neurofilament proteins may even confer protection in this disease.
Experimental models have suggested potential new treatments for human inflammatory neuropathy, but current practice is largely based on empirical trials. Evidence from randomized trials supports the use of intravenous immunoglobulin in Guillain-Barr syndrome, chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy (CIDP) and multifocal motor neuropathy with conduction block (MMNCB). In Guillain-Barr syndrome and CIDP intravenous immunoglobulin is equivalent to but more convenient than plasma exchange. In MMNCB adequate comparative studies of intravenous immunoglobulin and plasma exchange have not been performed. Corticosteroid treatment is beneficial in CIDP, but not in Guillain-Barr syndrome and may worsen MMNCB. More randomized trials and systematic reviews are needed to improve the evidence base for clinical practice.
Neuropsychiatric symptoms are prominent clinical features of dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). Visual hallucinations have been reported to be particularly common. Auditory hallucinations, delusions, and depression also may be characteristic to DLB. Misidentification delusions may be more common than with other types of delusional syndromes. Supersensitivity to neuroleptic drugs is common, making treatment of these symptoms difficult, and newer, atypical compounds have been recommended. However, supersensitive reactions to these medicines have been reported. Patients with DLB, especially those with visual hallucinations, are reported to have a marked cholinergic deficit, and cholinergic drugs may be beneficial in reducing the neuropsychiatric symptoms.
Pitx2 is a homeodomain transcription factor that is mutated in Rieger syndrome, a haploinsufficiency disorder affecting eyes and teeth. Pitx2 also has a postulated role in left-right axis determination. We assessed the requirements for Pitx2 directly by generating hypomorphic and null alleles. Heterozygotes for either allele have eye abnormalities consistent with Rieger syndrome. The ventral body wall fails to close in embryos homozygous for the null allele, leaving the heart and abdominal organs externalized and the body axis contorted. In homozygotes for either allele, the heart tube undergoes normal, rightward looping and the stomach is positioned normally. In contrast, homozygotes for both alleles exhibit right isomerization of the lungs. Thus, Pitx2 is required for left-right asymmetry of the lungs but not other organs. Homozygotes for either allele exhibit septal and valve defects, and null homozygotes have a single atrium proving that a threshold level of Pitx2 is required for normal heart development. Null homozygotes exhibit arrest of pituitary gland development at the committed Rathke pouch stage and eye defects including optic nerve coloboma and absence of ocular muscles. This allelic series establishes that Pitx2 is required for the development of mulitple organs in a dosage-sensitive manner.
Neurons provide critical signals that regulate both the number and differentiation of glia. In addition, glia are attracted to and enwrap neuronal axonal processes. FGF-like signalling is thought to be one of the many potential axon-derived morphogenetic signals, however, the multiple roles of FGFs have made experimental tests of these signals difficult in vivo. In the Drosophila FGF receptor mutant heartless, glia migrate to axons, but fail to elongate around them. This study shows that in the similar but larger grasshopper CNS, FGF signalling is likely to mediate one step in the close interaction between glia and axons. FGF2-coated beads attract glia in the CNS and compete with axons for their resident, enwrapped glia. In addition, bath applied FGF2 causes mature axonal glia, which normally enwrap axon tracts, to round up. FGF2 activates the product of the grasshopper heartless FGF receptor gene and probably interferes with the normal function of an endogenous axon-associated FGF-like molecule. It is proposed that insect axons provide a critical spatially restricted FGF-like signal that induces glia to enwrap them.
This study examined the reinforcing effects of hydromorphone (HYD) (0, 4, 8, and 16 mg/70 kg i.m.) in heroin-dependent outpatient volunteers maintained on buprenorphine (BUP) at doses of 2, 4, and 8 mg, each for 2 weeks. Following a week of maintenance at each dose, volunteers received injections of one of the four HYD doses under double-blind conditions. Eight volunteers (abstainers) were heroin-free during HYD test weeks, whereas six volunteers remained heroin-positive (nonabstainers). Among abstainers, HYD had minimal reinforcing value, whereas in nonabstainers there were marked dose-related increases in HYD reinforcing value, which were not attenuated by increasing doses of BUP. A similar pattern was found for HYD subjective agonist effects. Heroin craving among nonabstainers was significantly higher compared with abstainers, and was reduced in a dose-related manner by HYD. Although BUP and HYD produced dose-related miosis, abstinence status had no differential effect. In summary, BUP effects on opioid reinforcement were consistent from outpatient setting (heroin abstinence) to laboratory setting (decreased HYD reinforcement), supporting the validity of this laboratory model.
Defects of mitochondrial metabolism result in a wide variety of human disorders, which can present at any time from infancy to late adulthood and involve virtually any tissue either alone or in combination. Abnormalities of the electron transport and oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) system are probably the most common cause of mitochondrial diseases. Thirteen of the protein subunits of OXPHOS are encoded by mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) and mutations of this genome are important causes of OXPHOS deficiency. The link between genotype and phenotype with respect to mtDNA mutations is not clear: the same mutation may result in a variety of phenotypes, and the same phenotype may be seen with a variety of different mtDNA mutations. The pathogenesis of mtDNA mutations is unclear although OXPHOS and ATP deficiency, and free radical generation, are thought to contribute to tissue dysfunction. There is now strong evidence for mitochondrial dysfunction in neurodegenerative disorders. In some cases, e.g. Friedreich's ataxia, hereditary spastic paraplegia, this is a result of a mutation of a nuclear gene encoding a mitochondrial protein, whilst in others, e.g. Huntington's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, the OXPHOS defect is secondary to events induced by a mutation in a nuclear gene encoding a non-mitochondrial protein. In yet a third group, e.g. Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, the relationship of the mitochondrial defect to aetiology and pathogenesis is unclear.

The regulation of the striatal m1 and m4 muscarinic receptor mRNA as well as the choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) mRNA expression by nigral dopaminergic and cortical glutamatergic afferent fibres was investigated using quantitative in situ hybridization histochemistry. The effects induced by a unilateral lesion of the medial forebrain bundle and a bilateral lesion of the sensorimotor (SM) cortex were analysed in the dorsal striatum 3 weeks after the lesions. Dopaminergic denervation of the striatum resulted in a marked decrease in the levels of m4 mRNA throughout the striatum, while the levels of muscarinic m1 mRNA and ChAT mRNA in cholinergic neurons were unaffected by the lesion. In contrast, following bilateral cortical ablation, the levels of the muscarinic m1 mRNA were significantly increased in the striatal projection area of the SM cortex, whereas the expression of m4 mRNA remained unchanged. Single cholinergic cell analysis by computer-assisted grain counting revealed a decreased labelling for ChAT mRNA per neuron following cortical ablation. However, in contrast to the topographical m1 mRNA changes, the decreased ChAT mRNA expression was evenly distributed within the striatum, suggesting an indirect cortical control upon striatal cholinergic interneurons. Altogether, these data suggest that dopaminergic nigral and glutamatergic cortical afferents modulate differentially cholinergic markers, at the pre- and post-synaptic levels. Beside the fact that nigral and cortical inputs exert an opposite control on cholinergic neurotransmission, our study further shows that this control involved different muscarinic receptor subtypes: the m4 and m1 receptors, respectively.
Optical recording with a voltage-sensitive dye was performed in visual cortical slices of the rat to determine the effect of acetylcholine (ACh) on the spread of excitation. In the presence of ACh, the spread of excitation initiated by stimulation at the white matter/layer VI (WM/VI) was greatly suppressed throughout the cortex, with less suppression in the middle layers. By comparing the effect of ACh with that of 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX), the fraction of the synaptic component that was sensitive to ACh was evaluated. ACh suppressed approximately 40-50% (maximum 55.8%, n = 11) of the initial synaptic component in the superficial and deep layers. In the middle, however, the effect was weakest and only approximately 20-30% (minimum 20.9%, n = 11) of the initial synaptic component was suppressed. On the basis of histological analysis, the region with the weakest ACh effect extended from upper V to lower II/III. To identify the site of ACh action in terms of pre- versus postsynaptic localization, exogenous glutamate was applied. Because ACh did not suppress the excitation induced by glutamate, the site of the ACh action was indicated to be presynaptic. When layer II/III was stimulated instead of WM/VI, the suppression was uniform throughout the cortex. A muscarinic receptor antagonist, atropine, blocked the suppression by ACh. In conclusion, our results indicate the following two points. First, ACh strongly suppresses intracortical connectivity through presynaptic muscarinic receptors. Secondly, in contrast to the intracortical connection, some group(s) of fibres, possibly thalamocortical afferents that arise from white matter and terminate in the middle cortical layers are suppressed much less by ACh. While ACh has been reported to have confusingly diverse effects, e.g. direct depolarization and hyperpolarization as well as synaptic facilitation and suppression, its effect on the propagation of excitation is very clear; suppression on intracortical connection, leaving thalamocortical inputs rather intact. We postulate that cholinergic innervation enables the afferent input to have a relatively dominant effect in the cortex.
Brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is normally expressed by a small number of predominantly trkA-expressing dorsal root ganglion cells. Using immunocytochemistry and in situ hybridization, we have examined the effect of sciatic nerve section on the expression of BDNF in the adult rat. Following axotomy there was a long lasting (4-week) increase in BDNF mRNA and protein in large-diameter, trkB- and trkC-expressing dorsal root ganglion cells. By 2 days postaxotomy, expression of BDNF mRNA had increased from 2% of trkB cells to 50%, and from 18% of trkC cells to 56%. In contrast, BDNF expression in most trkA cells was unchanged, although was increased in the small population of medium- and large-sized trkA cells. Following axotomy, BDNF-immunoreactive terminals appeared in the central axonal projections of large-diameter cells, including the deep dorsal horn and gracile nucleus. Neuropeptide Y was also upregulated following axotomy and was coexpressed with BDNF in the cell bodies and central terminals of the large cells. Ultrastructural analysis in lamina IV of the spinal cord revealed that BDNF terminals in these central projections establish synaptic contacts. Immunoreactivity at 4 weeks was also observed in pericellular baskets that contained calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) and surrounded trkA- and trkB-expressing cells in L4 and L5 lumbar ganglia. These baskets are likely to arise from local, highly immunoreactive, BDNF/CGRP/trkA-expressing cells. Our results identify several novel targets for BDNF and imply that it acts locally in both autocrine and paracrine modes, as well as centrally in a synaptic mode, to modulate the response of somatosensory pathways in nerve injury.
The functional role of correlated neural activity in auditory cortex for the processing of sounds was explored by investigating whether and how cross-correlation parameters are related to receptive field similarities of neurons. Multi-unit activity was recorded simultaneously from several sites of isofrequency domains in primary auditory cortex. At each site various receptive field properties were determined. From the discharges of pairs of clusters, normalized cross-correlation histograms (CCH) were calculated for extended periods of spontaneous activity and for periods with noise-burst stimulation. In both conditions, most CCHs exhibited a symmetrical positivity near the origin of the CCH, a few to several tens of milliseconds wide. Cross-correlation histograms were characterized with two parameters: the correlation strength, which was estimated from the peak correlation, and the correlation width, i.e. the time period of correlated firing, which was measured as the width of the positivity at half height. It was found that correlation strength increased and correlation width narrowed with increasing similarity of the receptive fields of two clusters. These relationships were observed both in the acoustically-driven and spontaneous conditions. Specifically, correlation strength was most strongly associated with similarity in binaural interaction and in temporal response properties such as response onset, response offset and the temporal pattern of the response. Correlation width was predominantly associated with similarity in characteristic frequency, bandwidth and intensity threshold. Results suggest that correlated activity, reflecting potential mechanisms involved in the neural computation in auditory cortex, provides a means to evaluate the properties of the functional organization of auditory cortex. Systematic relationships were found between correlation properties and the receptive field-based organization of cortical processing, suggesting that similar general mechanisms are utilized in many parts of the sensory cortex. In particular, the magnitude and/or the time period of synchronized firing of neurons is increased if the receptive field properties of the involved neurons are similar.
Within the hippocampal formation, two forms of long-lasting synaptic plasticity, long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD), can be induced which require the activation of NMDA receptors. Interestingly, it has been shown that both LTP and LTD are reduced in adult animals. Recently, a new chemical protocol has been described which elicits LTD in the CA1 field of the hippocampus. Application of 20 microM NMDA for 3 min results in a stable and long-lasting decrease in the evoked synaptic responses. We used this protocol to induce LTD in hippocampal slices from young and adult rats and show that this form of LTD is AP5-sensitive and can be blocked by the protein phosphatase inhibitor cyclosporin A in slices from adult animals. In contrast to electrical LTD (induced by prolonged low frequency stimulation), the extent of chemical LTD was not different between the young and adult rats. These findings indicate that the intracellular signal transduction cascades involved in long-lasting synaptic depression are still intact in adult animals.
A total of 28 long-term mentally ill patients, the majority schizophrenic, treated with cognitive therapy in the context of milieu-therapy and group therapy, were investigated at admission and discharge with regard to changes in symptomatology, quality of life, global functioning, need for medication, and perceived target complaints. The results showed a significant relief in perceived burden of illness and an improvement in quality of life. A better pre-admission functioning with regard to social functioning, occupational function, and symptoms predicted a more favourable outcome.
We examined bimanual coordination in a patient before and after each stage of callosotomy surgery. We tested how well the patient coordinated movement direction between the hands. The patient drew symmetrical or asymmetrical figures simultaneously with both hands. Before surgery, symmetrical figures were drawn well and asymmetrical figures were drawn poorly. Following anterior callosotomy, the drawings improved slightly. Symmetrical figures were still drawn well, and asymmetrical ones were still drawn poorly. Thus, spatial integration remained intact despite the loss of interhemispheric communication between frontal cortical sites. After posterior callosotomy, spatial coordination deteriorated significantly. Mirror-image drawings became less symmetrical, while asymmetrical drawings improved. These data indicate that the posterior callosum mediates the coordination of direction information between the hands during bimanual movements. Given the topographical organization of the corpus callosum, this integration is likely carried out by parietal cortex.
We investigated the nature of the silent period (SP) following transcranial magnetic stimulation by recording corticospinal volleys in a patient with implanted cervical epidural electrodes. Single suprathreshold test stimuli and paired stimuli at interstimulus intervals (ISIs) of 50-200 ms were delivered while the subject maintained a constant background contraction. The silent period duration from a single test stimulus was 357+/-62 ms. The test motor-evoked potentials were markedly reduced at all the ISIs tested. The I (indirect) waves induced by the test stimulus were largely unchanged at an ISI of 50 ms, suggesting that there was little change in motor cortex excitability. However, the corticospinal volleys, especially the late I waves, were substantially reduced at ISIs of 100 ms, 150 ms, and 200 ms. Our findings suggest that the early part of the SP is mainly due to spinal mechanisms, while the late part of the SP is related to reduced motor cortex excitability.
Functional connections of single reticulospinal neurons (RSNs) in the nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis (NRG) with ipsilateral dorsal neck motoneurons were examined with the spike-triggered averaging technique. Extracellular spikes of single NRG-RSNs activated antidromically from the C6, but not from the L1 segment (C-RSNs) were used as the trigger. These neurons were monosynaptically activated from the superior colliculus and the cerebral peduncle. Single-RSN PSPs were recorded in 43 dorsal neck motoneurons [biventer cervicis and complexus (BCC) and splenius (SPL)] for 21 NRG-RSNs and 135 motoneurons tested. All synaptic potentials were EPSPs, and most of their latencies, measured from the triggering spikes, were 0.8-1.5 ms, which is in a monosynaptic range. The amplitudes of single-RSN EPSPs were 10-360 microV. Spike-triggered averaging revealed single-RSN EPSPs in multiple motoneurons of the same species (SPL or BCC), their locations extending up to nearly 1 mm rostrocaudally. Synaptic connections of single RSNs with both SPL and BCC motoneurons were also found with some predominance for one of them. The results provide direct evidence that NRG-RSNs make monosynaptic excitatory connections with SPL and BCC motoneurons. It appears that some NRG-RSNs connect predominantly with SPL motoneurons and others with BCC motoneurons.
The information from pulmonary rapidly adapting stretch receptors (RARs) to the central nervous system (CNS) is relayed in the nucleus tractus solitarii (NTS). The second-order neurons in the NTS referred to as RAR cells have recently been shown to receive rhythmic inputs from the central respiratory system in addition to the main inputs from RAR afferents. The present study analyzed these synaptic inputs by intracellular recordings from RAR cells, and by extracellular recordings combined with local applications of neuroactive drugs to RAR cells, in Nembutal-anesthetized, paralyzed, and artificially ventilated rats. The intracellular analysis identified both excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) elicited presumably by RAR afferents and inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs) synchronous with central inspiratory activity. This inhibitory input, called I suppression, was the origin of respiratory modulation of RAR cell firing, and its time course suggested that some unidentified inspiratory neurons with an augmenting firing pattern were the source of the inhibition. The pharmacological analysis suggested the types of neurotransmitters used in these synaptic events. First, glutamate was shown to be the primary neurotransmitter at the synapse between RAR afferents and RAR cells. Iontophoretic applications of the non-NMDA glutamate antagonist, CNQX, abolished RAR cell firing almost completely in response to lung inflation and deflation and to electrical stimulation of the vagus nerve. Second, glycinergic inputs which inhibited RAR cells in the inspiratory phase were revealed by applications of the glycine antagonist, strychnine. That is, the I suppression was greatly diminished by applications of strychnine. Third, although applications of the GABA(A) receptor antagonist, bicuculline, had little effect on I suppression, bicuculline markedly increased the baseline firing of RAR cells. These results imply that the information path from RARs to the CNS is regulated at the level of RAR cells by phasically-acting glycinergic inhibition in the inspiratory phase and tonically-acting GABAergic inhibition; the results also provide new insights into the neuronal mechanisms of RAR-induced reflexes.
While sensory corticotectal connections have received considerable attention, relatively little is known about the nature of superior colliculus neurons that receive input from the cortical frontal eye fields. The present experiments used microstimulation of indwelling electrodes in the frontal eye fields and single-unit recording in the superior colliculus to demonstrate that frontal afferents preferentially terminate on multisensory neurons in the colliculus. Furthermore, the medial and lateral subdivisions of the cat frontal eye fields access physiologically distinct populations of multisensory collicular neurons. Specifically, the medial subdivision preferentially activates neurons with visual and auditory sensory responses located medial within the colliculus, while the lateral subdivision preferentially activates collicular neurons with visual and somatosensory responses found more laterally. These data support reports distinguishing the medial and lateral subdivisions of the frontal eye fields in the cat and suggest that signals from each may route separately through the colliculus to induce or coordinate different components of gaze control.
Periodic changes in ovarian steroid levels during fertility cycles affect learning both in humans and in rats in parallel with electrophysiological and morphological fluctuations in selective neuronal populations. In particular, during the estrous cycle of the female rat, hippocampal CA1 region undergoes cyclic modifications in synaptic density. To investigate the molecular mechanisms involved in synaptic remodeling during the estrous cycle, we analyzed the expression of three presynaptic markers, synaptotagmin I, synaptotagmin IV, and synaptophysin, in the female adult rat brain by in situ hybridization. Relative abundance in mRNA for these three markers was quantified at four phases of the estrous cycle: diestrus, proestrus (AM and PM), and estrus. mRNA levels for syt1 exhibited cyclic variations in pyramidal neurons of the CA3 region of hippocampus during the estrous cycle, while mRNA levels for syt4 and SYN were relatively invariant in this or other regions of the hippocampus. Because CA3 pyramidal neurons make synaptic contacts in CA1, modulation of syt1 expression in CA3 may participate in the changes in synaptic density observed in CA1 during the estrous cycle. Furthermore, both syt1 and SYN mRNA varied cyclically in layer II, but not in layer III of entorhinal cortex, while syt4 remained unchanged throughout the cycle. These data suggest that regular variations in steroid hormone levels during fertility cycles may alter the properties of several networks involved in information processing and learning and memory through altered levels of presynaptic proteins.
Protein kinase C (PKC) has been implicated in the pathophysiology of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The levels of particular isoforms and the activation of PKC are reduced in postmortem brain cortex of AD subjects. Receptors for activated C kinase (RACK) are a family of proteins involved in anchoring activated PKCs to relevant subcellular compartments. Recent evidence has indicated that the impaired activation (translocation) of PKC in the aging brain is associated with a deficit in RACK1, the most well-characterized member of this family. The present study was conducted to determine whether alterations in RACK1 occurred in cortical areas where an impaired translocation of PKC has been demonstrated in AD. Here we report the presence of RACK1 immunoreactivity in human brain frontal cortex for the first time and demonstrate a decrease in RACK1 content in cytosol and membrane extracts in AD when compared with non-AD controls. By comparison, the levels of the RACK1-related PKCbetaII were not modified in the same membrane extracts. These observations add a new perspective in understanding the disease-associated defective PKC signal transduction and indicate that a decrease in an anchoring protein for PKC is an additional determinant of this deficit.
NR1 and NR2 are the two gene families for the NMDA receptor. In vitro studies show that while NR2 alone is nonfunctional, NR1 alone produces weak currents to glutamate or NMDA. We previously showed by immunocytochemistry (ICC) that in normal appearing, nonepileptic human cortical neurons, only NR1 and not NR2 proteins were expressed, in contrast to the presence of both NR1 and NR2 in normal rat cortical neurons. We also showed, in dysplastic epileptic cortex, that both NR1 and NR2 were highly expressed using ICC on adjacent 30-microm sections. However, the relative coexpressions of NR1 and NR2 proteins in single neurons in single sections of human epileptic cortex were unknown. In this study, we used double-labeled immunofluorescence and confocal microscopy to examine the distribution and coexpression of subunit proteins for NR1 and NR2A/B in both nondysplastic (control comparison) and dysplastic regions of human brain resected for the treatment of intractable epilepsy (11 patients). In nondysplastic regions, cortical neurons did not have immunoreactivity (ir) for NR2A/B, whereas NR1-ir was abundant. By contrast, dysplastic neurons in the regions with epileptic cortical dysplasia showed intense NR2A/B-ir in the somata and their dendritic processes. These same NR2A/B-ir dysplastic neurons were colabeled by NR1. These results demonstrate directly that dysplastic neurons express both NR2A/B and NR1 proteins, whereas nondysplastic cortical neurons express only NR1 proteins. Selective coexpression of NR2A/B and NR1 in dysplastic neurons suggests that NR2A/B may form heteromeric NR1-NR2 coassemblies and hyperexcitability in dysplastic neurons that could contribute to focal seizure onset.
Neuronal necrosis and apoptosis occur after traumatic brain injury (TBI) in animals and contribute to subsequent neurological deficits. In contrast, relatively little apoptosis is found after mechanical injury in vitro. Because in vivo trauma models and clinical head injury have associated cerebral ischemia and/or metabolic impairment, we transiently impaired cellular metabolism after mechanical trauma of neuronal-glial cultures by combining 3-nitropropionic acid treatment with concurrent glucose deprivation. This produced greater neuronal cell death than mechanical trauma alone. Such injury was attenuated by the NMDA receptor antagonist dizocilpine (MK801). In addition, this injury significantly increased the number of apoptotic cells over that accruing from mechanical injury alone. This apoptotic cell death was accompanied by DNA fragmentation, attenuated by cycloheximide, and associated with an increase in caspase-3-like but not caspase-1-like activity. Cell death was reduced by the pan-caspase inhibitor BAF or the caspase-3 selective inhibitor z-DEVD-fmk, whereas the caspase-1 selective inhibitor z-YVAD-fmk had no effect; z-DEVD-fmk also reduced the number of apoptotic cells after combined injury. Moreover, cotreatment with MK801 and BAF resulted in greater neuroprotection than either drug alone. Thus, in vitro trauma with concurrent metabolic inhibition parallels in vivo TBI, showing both NMDA-sensitive necrosis and caspase-3-dependent apoptosis.
Over the last years, the modern psychopathological classification of schizophrenic symptoms into the groups of negative and positive symptoms has gained more relevance to the diagnosis, therapy and prognosis of this disorder. We delineate the historical concept of negative and positive elements, which was developed by the British neurologist John Hughlings Jackson (1835-1911) to explain the pathophysiology of psychic disorders. These definitions are elucidated in view of the scientific context at the end of the 19th century, when evolutionism, positivism, psycho-physical parallelism, and the knowledge of neurosciences played an important part. In addition, the reception of Jackson's ideas by psychiatry is shown. Freud was essentially influenced by Jackson in developing his psychoanalytical theory of neurosis. Bleuler joined Freud and defined &quot;primre&quot; and &quot;sekundre&quot; symptoms of schizophrenia. In the phenomenological concept of schizophrenia of Huber, &quot;Basissymptome&quot; are distinguished from &quot;End- und Uberbausymptome&quot;, which in part correspond to the negative and positive symptoms of today, respectively. The paper provides a historical survey of the Jacksonian influences on concepts of schizophrenia.
Cervical hyperextension injuries are common and are associated with significant morbidity. Clinically two syndromes are described: &quot;acute&quot; whiplash syndrome and &quot;late&quot; whiplash syndrome (in which the patients are still symptomatic after six months despite normal physical and radiological examination). In order to clarify the pathology of the persistent pain in late whiplash syndrome we performed a cervical spine magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in 33 consecutive patients suffering from this condition. Twenty-six patients (78.8%) showed MRI abnormalities, the most common MRI finding (57.6%) was pre-existent spondylosis. Indeed, the group of patients with spondylosis and other MRI changes had higher clinical scores than those without MRI abnormalities as measured by a three-point grading system based upon the symptoms and signs shown. Several MRI changes, most of them already demonstrable by standard X-ray were seen among 33 patients suffering from late whiplash syndrome. Although no one of these findings appears to be specific and certainly related to the previous neck injury, they could represent a risk factor for a longer pain duration.
Previous studies have identified two discrete strategies for the control of posture in the sagittal plane based on EMG activations, body kinematics, and ground reaction forces. The ankle strategy was characterized by body sway resembling a single-segment-inverted pendulum and was elicited on flat support surfaces. In contrast, the hip strategy was characterized by body sway resembling a double-segment inverted pendulum divided at the hip and was elicited on short or compliant support surfaces. However, biomechanical optimization models have suggested that hip strategy should be observed in response to fast translations on a flat surface also, provided the feet are constrained to remain in contact with the floor and the knee is constrained to remain straight. The purpose of this study was to examine the experimental evidence for hip strategy in postural responses to backward translations of a flat support surface and to determine whether analyses of joint torques would provide evidence for two separate postural strategies. Normal subjects standing on a flat support surface were translated backward with a range of velocities from fast (55 cm/s) to slow (5 cm/s). EMG activations and joint kinematics showed pattern changes consistent with previous experimental descriptions of mixed hip and ankle strategy with increasing platform velocity. Joint torque analyses revealed the addition of a hip flexor torque to the ankle plantarflexor torque during fast translations. This finding indicates the addition of hip strategy to ankle strategy to produce a continuum of postural responses. Hip torque without accompanying ankle torque (pure hip strategy) was not observed. Although postural control strategies have previously been defined by how the body moves, we conclude that joint torques, which indicate how body movements are produced, are useful in defining postural control strategies. These results also illustrate how the biomechanics of the body can transform discrete control patterns into a continuum of postural corrections.
Genetic transfer approaches have received recent consideration as potential treatment modalities for human central and peripheral nervous system (CNS and PNS, respectively) neurodegenerative disorders, including Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Transplantation of genetically modified cells into the brain represents a promising strategy for the delivery and expression of specific neurotrophic factors, neurotransmitter-synthesizing enzymes, and cellular regulatory proteins for intervention in neurodegenerative diseases. The use of specific regulatable promoters may also provide potential control of gene expression required for dose-specific or time-specific therapeutic strategies. In this article, we review the potential use of activated promoters in ex vivo systems for the potential genetic therapy of neurodegenerative disorders, and then describe our own studies using the zinc-inducible metallothionein promoter for the regulated expression of nerve growth factor (NGF) in rodent brain transplants.

Changes in extracellular space (ECS) diffusion parameters in astrogliotic tissue around a unilateral cortical stab wound were determined from concentration-time profiles of tetramethylammonium (TMA(+)) using TMA(+)-selective microelectrodes. Three diffusion parameters-ECS volume fraction alpha (alpha = ECS volume/ total tissue volume), tortuosity lambda (lambda(2) = D/ADC; where D is the free and ADC is the apparent diffusion coefficient of TMA(+) in the brain), and nonspecific TMA(+)uptake k'-were determined at 3, 7, 21, and 35 days postwounding (dpw), in the hemispheres ipsilateral and contralateral to the lesion. Following diffusion experiments, tissue sections were immunostained for glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and chondroitin-sulphate proteoglycans (CSPG). In the area 300-1000 micron around the wound, alpha was increased at 3, 7, and 21 dpw by about 20% but returned to control values at 35 dpw; lambda was increased at all four intervals, reaching a maximum at 7 dpw. k' was lower than in the contralateral hemisphere at 7, 21, and 35 dpw. Measurements 1,500-2,000 micron from the wound revealed only an increase in lambda at 7 dpw. The time course of changes in ECS diffusion parameters closely correlated with increased staining for GFAP and CSPG. Our results show that astrogliosis significantly changes the diffusion properties of nervous tissue, making it less permissive. Both hypertrophied astrocytic processes and an enhanced formation of some extracellular matrix molecules could affect, through changes in the diffusion of molecules in the ECS, neuron-glia communication, &quot;cross-talk&quot; between synapses, extrasynaptic transmission, and regenerative processes.
Glycosylation is key posttranslational modification for membrane-bound and secreted proteins that can influence both the secondary structure and the function of the protein backbone. In order to investigate the effect of altered cellular glycosylation potential, we have generated a number of clonal cell lines over-expressing the alpha2,3(N) sialyltransferase enzyme (ST3N). In general, there was a decrease in total sialyltransferase (ST) enzyme activity in the clones transfected with the ST3N cDNA, with this decrease being inversely proportional to the quantity of the mRNA coding for the enzyme. The ST3N enzyme was, however, functional and there was an increase in both MAA lectin staining and the expression of polysialic acid, which is attached to the NCAM protein backbone primarily via an alpha2,3 linkage. These results suggest that the overexpression of a sialyltransferase may upset the sialylation potential of the cell.
Gravity receptor function was characterized in four mammalian species using far-field vestibular evoked potentials (VsEPs). VsEPs are compound action potentials of the vestibular nerve and central relays that are elicited by linear acceleration ramps applied to the cranium. Rats, mice, guinea pigs, and gerbils were studied. In all species, response onset occurred within 1.5 ms of the stimulus onset. Responses persisted during intense (116 dBSPL) wide-band (50 to 50,000 Hz) forward masking, whereas auditory responses to intense clicks (112 dBpeSPL) were eliminated under the same conditions. VsEPs remained after cochlear extirpation but were eliminated following bilateral labyrinthectomy. Responses included a series of positive and negative peaks that occurred within 8 ms of stimulus onset (range of means at +6 dBre: 1.0 g/ms: P1=908 to 1062 micros, N1=1342 to 1475 micros, P2=1632 to 1952 micros, N2=2038 to 2387 micros). Mean response amplitudes at +6 dBre: 1.0 g/ms ranged from 0.14 to 0.99 microV. VsEP input/output functions revealed latency slopes that varied across peaks and species ranging from -19 to -51 micros/dB. Amplitude-intensity slopes also varied ranging from 0.04 to 0.08 microV/dB for rats and mice. Latency values were comparable to those of birds although amplitudes were substantially smaller in mammals. VsEP threshold values were considerably higher in mammals compared to birds and ranged from -8.1 to -10.5 dBre 1.0 g/ms across species. These results support the hypothesis that mammalian gravity receptors are less sensitive to dynamic stimuli than are those of birds.
Mechanisms regulating sexual differentiation of the zebra finch song system present an intriguing puzzle. Masculine development of brain regions and behavior can be induced in genetic females by posthatching estradiol treatment. That result is consistent with the hypothesis that estradiol, converted within the brain from testicular androgen via the aromatase enzyme, masculinizes neural structure and function. In contrast, treatment during specific stages of development with the aromatase inhibitor Fadrozole has not prevented masculine development, and the presence of testicular tissue in genetic females did not induce masculine organization of neuroanatomy or singing behavior. Fadrozole treatments in those previous studies were limited, however, and most genetic females had both ovarian and testicular tissue. The present experiments were designed to provide increased aromatase inhibition and to reliably produce genetic females with only testicular tissue. Eggs received a single injection at a later age or with higher doses of Fadrozole than had been used previously. Some embryos were exposed to Fadrozole more frequently by either injecting eggs on 2 days of development or dipping them for 10-12 days in Fadrozole. Finally, in some individuals from Fadrozole-treated eggs, the left gonad was removed, leaving each genetic male and female with a single right testis. None of these treatments significantly affected development of the song system compared to appropriate control groups. These results suggest that sexual differentiation of the zebra finch song system is not regulated by embryonic aromatase activity or by gonadal secretions and instead involves events that need not be mediated by steroid hormones.
Five papers were presented at the symposium on new aspects of steroid action on neural and neuroendocrine systems which was held within the framework of the Fifth International Brain Research Organization's (IBRO) World Congress of Neuroscience, held from 11-15 July 1999. The symposium was organized and chaired by Gabor Makara (Institute of Experimental Medicine, Hungarian Academy of Sciences, Budapest, Hungary). Results from behavioral, endocrinological, cellular, molecular and neuroanatomical aspects of steroid actions in the brain were used to illustrate that steroid hormones can influence neural function by both rapid (cell membrane-mediated) and slower (gene transcription-dependent) mechanisms. The data reported were discussed in the context of their significance to brain physiology and pathophysiology, and consideration was given to particular aspects which could be of relevance to the use of steroids for the prevention and treatment of brain disorders.
The IBRO World Congress of Neuroscience covered the full spectrum of neuroscience, from molecular and developmental neurobiology to behavioral pharmacology and neurodegeneration.
This congress, held every four years by the International Brain Research Organization (IBRO) and the World Federation of Neuroscientists, included a broad range of neuroscience presentations including many of pharmacological relevance. Delegates presented data on the pharmacological characterization and mode of action of numerous drugs at this meeting.

Primary hypersomnia, a rare clinical syndrome, was diagnosed in a 14-year-old boy. The syndrome showed partial response to high dose fluoxetine therapy (120 mg/day) which recruited insomnia, an adverse effect of the drug, for therapeutic purposes. Response was enhanced with intermittent methylphenidate in association with a lower dose of fluoxetine. A possible pharmacokinetic interaction developed, comprising fluoxetine-induced augmentation of methylphenidate activity; such an interaction has not been previously reported.
The main penile or cavernous nerve is usually regarded as the most important vasodilator projection in the rat. Although other descending pathways have been described, there is little detailed information on their importance. In this present report, we provide topographic and quantitative information on lateral and ventral penile branches and examine the vasodilator fibers which join the pudendal neurovascular bundle. Seventeen Sprague-Dawley rats were used. The techniques included injection of dye in the penis to label neurons in the pelvic plexus in combination with transection of the main penile nerve (MPN). NADPH diaphorase (NADPH-d) histochemistry was used to assess the effects of transection of vasodilator pathways on innervation of the penis and for in situ staining of the pelvic plexus. Distinct clusters of penile neurons are aggregated at the origin of several nerve tracts leaving the posterior margin of the major pelvic ganglion (MPG). Multiple NADPH-d+ fiber bundles coursed over the anterior surface of the prostate to reach the penis. Branches from these tracts joined the pudendal neurovascular bundle proximal to the hilum of the penis and provided innervation to the artery throughout its course in the pudendal canal. Consistent with the presence of multiple penile pathways, transection of the MPN reduced, but did not eliminate retrograde labeling of penile neurons in the MPG and only modestly decreased NADPH-d+ fibers in the penis. This study confirms that there are multiple pathways by which vasodilator fibers reach the penis. If a similar allocation of vasodilator output is present in man, preservation of finer branches of the pelvic plexus would be important in surgical procedures on the prostate.
The mechanisms by which cells regulate gene expression are often altered in tumors. Modulating aspects of the components responsible for the nuclear packaging of DNA is one means by which the cell can control transcription, either by packaging the DNA such that access to specific sites of transcription is blocked or by modifying the DNA itself to prevent transcription factor binding. One such DNA modification is the methylation of cytosines. In addition, histone acetylation status has been linked recently through a large number of studies to the regulation of gene expression. Expressed genes are located in highly acetylated chromatin. The acetylation status of nucleosomes (the basic packaging unit of chromatin), is regulated by a group of enzymes, histone acetyltransferases (HATs), and histone deacetylases (HDACs). These two elements, methylation and histone acetylation have also been linked together, whereby methylation is used to direct gene repression through a histone deacetylase complex. Methylation, HATs, and HDACs have been shown to be altered in tumors. We present an overview of the current knowledge surrounding these elements in cancer, and in the final sections describe the likelihood of alterations of the histone modifying apparatus in hepatocellular carcinoma.
The lack of energy conservation in brown adipose tissue mitochondria when prepared by conventional methods was established in the 1960s and was correlated with the thermogenic function of the tissue. In order to observe energy conservation, two requirements had to be met: the removal of the endogenous fatty acids and the addition of a purine nucleotide. These two factors have been the essential tools that led to the discovery of the energy dissipation pathway, the uncoupling protein UCP1. The activity is regulated by these two ligands. Purine nucleotides bind from the cytosolic side of the protein and inhibit transport. Fatty acids act as seconds messengers of noradrenaline and increase the proton conductance. This review presents a historical perspective of the steps that led to the discovery of UCP1, its regulation, and our current view on its mechanism of transport.
Global brain ischemia causes cell death in the CA1 region of the hippocampus 3-5 days after reperfusion. The biological pathway leading to such delayed neuronal damage has not been established. By using differential display analysis, we examined expression levels of poly(A) RNAs isolated from hippocampal extracts prepared from rats exposed to global ischemia and found an up-regulated transcript, clone 17a. Northern blot analysis of clone 17a showed an approximately 35-fold increase in the ischemic brain at 24 h after four-vessel occlusion. Rapid amplification of cDNA ends of clone 17a revealed a family of genes (160-540 base pairs) that had the characteristics of rodent B(2) sequences. In situ hybridization demonstrated that the elevated expression of this gene was localized predominantly in the CA1 pyramidal neurons. The level of expression in the CA1 region decreased dramatically between 24 and 72 h after ischemia. The elevated expression of clone 17a was not observed in four-vessel occlusion rats treated with the compound LY231617, an antioxidant known to exert neuroprotection in rats subjected to global ischemia. Since delayed neuronal death has the characteristics of apoptosis, we speculate that clone 17a may be involved in apoptosis. We examined the expression level of clone 17a in in vitro models of apoptosis using cerebellar granule neurons that were subjected to potassium removal, glutamate toxicity, or 6-hydroxydopamine treatment and found that clone 17a transcripts were induced in cerebellar granule neurons by glutamate or 6-hydroxydopamine stimulation but not potassium withdrawal.
Positron emission tomography (PET) has hitherto been used to examine D2 dopamine receptor binding in the striatum, a region with a high density of receptors. Research has been hampered by the lack of suitable radioligands for detection of the low-density D2 dopamine receptor populations in the limbic and cortical dopamine systems that are implicated in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. [11C]FLB 457 is a new radioligand with the very high affinity of 20 pmol/L (K(i)) for the D2 and D3 dopamine receptor subtypes. This study in eight healthy subjects was designed to evaluate the suitability of [11C]FLB 457 for quantification of extrastriatal D2/D3 dopamine receptors. PET-data were acquired in the three-dimensional mode and the arterial input function was corrected for labeled metabolites. The standard three-compartment model and four derived approaches were applied to calculate and compare the binding potentials. Besides the striatum, conspicuous radioactivity was found in extrastriatal regions such as the thalamus, the anterior cinguli, and the temporal and frontal cortices. The time activity curves could be described by the three compartment model. The different approaches gave similar binding potential values and the rank order between regions was consistent with that found in vitro. The short time of a PET measurement using [11C]FLB 457 (63 minutes) seemed not to be sufficient for reliable determination of the high binding potential in the striatum. These results are of principal importance because they show the potential for PET quantification of minute receptor populations in the human brain.
The novel mGluR agonist LY354740 and a related analogue LY379268 are selective for mGluR2/3 receptors and are centrally active after systemic administration. In this study, rates of local cerebral glucose use were measured using the [14C]2-deoxyglucose autoradiographic technique to examine the functional consequences of their systemic administration in the conscious rat. Both LY354740 (0.3, 3.0, 30 mg/kg) and LY379268 (0.1, 1.0, 10 mg/kg) produced dose-dependent changes in glucose use. After LY354740 (3.0mg/kg), 4 of the 42 regions measured showed statistically significant changes from vehicle-treated controls: red nuclei (-16%), mammillary body (-25%), anterior thalamus (-29%), and the superficial layer of the superior colliculus (+50%). An additional 15 regions displayed significant reductions in function-related glucose use (P &lt; .05) in animals treated with LY354740 (30 mg/ kg). LY379268 (0.1, 1.0, 10 mg/kg) produced changes in glucose metabolism in 20% of the brain regions analyzed. Significant increases (P &lt; .05) in glucose use were evident in the following: the superficial layer of the superior colliculus (+81%), locus coeruleus (+57%), genu of the corpus callosum (+31%), cochlear nucleus (+26%), inferior colliculus (+20%), and the molecular layer of the hippocampus (+14%). Three regions displayed significant decreases: mammillary body (-34%), anteroventral thalamic nucleus (-28%), and the lateral habenular nucleus (-24%). These results show the important functional involvement of the limbic system together with the participation of components of different sensory systems in response to the activation of mGluR2 and mGluR3 with LY354740 and LY379268.
Elimination of corticosteroids after ischemia, by removal of the adrenals, has been reported to preserve neuronal integrity later. To establish the therapeutic potential of this observation, the authors address two questions: first, whether clinically more relevant steroid manipulations after ischemia exert similar protective effects, and second, whether changes in synaptic functioning occur along with structural alterations. To test this, the authors treated animals immediately after hypoxia-ischemia with (1) the steroid synthesis inhibitor metyrapone, (2) the synthetic glucocorticoid receptor agonist dexamethasone, (3) the selective glucocorticoid antagonist RU 38486, or (4) corticosterone. Metyrapone, but none of the other compounds, attenuated the occurrence of seizures immediately after ischemia. Twenty-four hours after hypoxia-ischemia, CAI hippocampal field potentials in response to stimulation of Schaffer/commissural fibers were found to be reduced. The attenuation of synaptic transmission was partly prevented by metyrapone. None of the other experimental treatments influenced the impaired synaptic function. Gross morphologic analysis revealed no differences in the loss of neuronal structure between the experimental groups at this time point. Taken together, these data suggest that metyrapone preserves neuronal functioning despite loss of neuronal structure. The authors tentatively conclude that preventing the ongoing production of steroids shortly after ischemia can delay and attenuate the appearance of ischemia-related pathology.
The size of distinct hippocampal sub-fields were measured in the apomorphine-susceptible and apomorphine-unsusceptible rat lines. Mossy fiber terminal fields were delineated using dynorphin B immunoreactivity and area measurements were taken from (1) the supra-pyramidal mossy fiber terminal field; (2) the intra- and infra-pyramidal mossy fiber terminal field; (3) the hilus of the fascia dentata (4) the non dynorphin B immunoreactive area of the regio inferior and fascia dentata and (5) the total area of regio inferior and fascia dentata. The data indicate that statistically significant differences in the morphometry of the hippocampal subfields of the apomorphine susceptible and unsusceptible rats are confined to the intra- and infra terminal field: the relative size of the left and right intra- and infra terminal field of apomorphine unsusceptible rats are significantly larger than those of the apomorphine susceptible rats. These data explain at least in part the differential response of these rats to novelty.

Executive mechanisms involved in task switching were studied in 18 brain injured patients. The patients had to rapidly switch back and forth between two visual classification tasks and the analyses focused on switch costs, (i.e., performance differences between switch and no-switch trials), and on interference effects, (i.e., processing costs imposed by the presence of interfering stimulus attributes). The patients were grouped according to the side of the brain lesion. Patients with left brain damage (LBD) showed higher switch costs than patients with right brain damage (RBD). These group differences were attributable to disproportionally high switch costs in patients with LBD and language or speech disorders. This result suggests that the efficiency of suppressing internal interference from a recently activated task set depends on the availability of verbal representations of the upcoming task. Patients with RBD showed higher interference from external task sets. This effect was not affected by language or speech disorders. The overall results argue for a fractionation of executive functions to protect against interference from internal and external sources in task switching.
Chemical neurotransmission begins when receptor occupancy by a neurotransmitter is converted into an intracellular second messenger that carries the information from the neurotransmitter deep into the target neuron. For clinicians, it is this transfer of neurotransmitter information all the way to the genome that hypothetically explains the therapeutic actions of many psychotropic drugs. This also accounts for why drugs that modify neurotransmission may take time to fully develop their clinical actions.
The loss of dopaminergic cells during Parkinson's disease (PD) produces &quot;frontal&quot;-like impairment in spatial working memory (SWM) and planning functions. This study investigated whether an alpha2-adrenergic agonist, clonidine (0.5 or 2 microg/kg, orally), improves SWM, spatial short-term or spatial recognition memory, and planning functions in PD patients. Clonidine 2 microg/kg decreased errors in SWM, but a lower dose, 0.5 microg/kg, had no effect on performance. Clonidine 0.5 and 2 microg/kg failed to improve the strategy used to solve the SWM test. Clonidine 0.5 and 2 microg/kg had no effect on accuracy of performance in the other tests. These results showed that clonidine improves performance in a test of SWM and that this is not due to improved spatial short-term or spatial recognition memory or planning functions. The authors suggest that stimulation of alpha2-adrenoceptors improves the mnemonic processing required for accurate SWM performance in PD patients.
Nearly all animals with good vision have a repertoire of eye movements. The majority show a pattern of stable fixations with fast saccades that shift the direction of gaze. These movements may be made by the eyes themselves, or the head, or in some insects the whole body. The main reason for keeping gaze still during fixations is the need to avoid the blur that results from the long response time of the photoreceptors. Blur begins to degrade the image at a retinal velocity of about 1 receptor acceptance angle per response time. Some insects (e.g. hoverflies) stabilise their gaze much more rigidly than this rule implies, and it is suggested that the need to see the motion of small objects against a background imposes even more stringent conditions on image motion. A third reason for preventing rotational image motion is to prevent contamination of the translational flow-field, by which a moving animal can judge its heading and the distances of objects. Some animals do let their eyes rotate smoothly, and these include some heteropod molluscs, mantis shrimps and jumping spiders, all of which have narrow linear retinae which scan across the surroundings. Hymenopteran insects also rotate during orientation flights at speeds of 100-200 degrees s-1. This is just consistent with a blur-free image, as are the scanning speeds of the animals with linear retinae.
Two of the many agendas of neuroethology are illustrated with examples. The first issue is what cells or assemblies of cells and what patterns of activity are sufficient to accomplish recognition of ethologically important stimulus configurations and initiation of behavioral action. The theme is the opportunities available in relatively neglected approaches to these objectives. As an example, the approach is developed of gentle microstimulation of loci in the brain where cells have been found to be responsive to complex, natural stimuli, under conditions conducive to the performance of tell-tale behavior. Other approaches include: (a) microinjection of modulatory substances into regions with such complex recognition cells, and (b) recording in efficient and informative ways, by using multiple electrode arrays, registering wideband activity, in behaving animals. The second issue is what brain and behavior differences has evolution produced between major taxa at distinct grades of complexity. Emphasized are our relative ignorance of basic aspects of connectivity, physiology and cognitive capacities in the major grades and the probability of surprises from new studies that employ comparison.
The present study investigated developmental circadian changes in the content of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) in two structures proposed to contain pacemakers in crayfish Procambarus clarkii: the cerebral ganglion and the eyestalks. Crayfish (N=260) from three developmental stages were divided into two groups: (1) animals subjected to 12 h:12 h light:dark cycles for 10 days and (2) animals treated as described above, then exposed to 72 h of continuous dim light. Crayfish from both groups were killed at different times of day, and the cerebral ganglion and the eyestalks of each were assayed for 5-HT by reversed-phase HPLC with electrochemical detection. In all stages of development, 5-HT content (expressed as (&amp;mgr;)g g(-)(1 )wet mass tissue) showed circadian variations in both structures analyzed; rhythms continued to free-run under constant illumination, and total 5-HT content was higher in the brain (0.581+/-0.36 (&amp;mgr;)g g(-)(1); mean +/- s.e.m.) than in the eyestalks (0.299+/-0.15 (&amp;mgr;)g g(-)(1)). As development advances, the percentage of the rhythm that shows periods of 24 h diminishes, while the percentage of the rhythm that shows periods of 9 to 12 h increases. This seems to indicate that pulsatile variations in 5-HT content are superimposed in a circadian component. The relationship between the 5-HT rhythm and electroretinogram and motor activity rhythms during development is discussed.
We have used a combination of biochemical and pharmacological techniques to investigate the role of the cyclic nucleotides, 3', 5'-cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cyclic AMP) and 3',5'-cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cyclic GMP), in mediating the cardioregulatory effects of FMRFamide and other neuropeptides encoded on exon II of the FMRFamide gene of Lymnaea stagnalis. The 'isoleucine' peptides (EFLRIamide and pQFYRIamide) produced complex biphasic effects on the frequency, force of contraction and tonus of the isolated heart of L. stagnalis, which were dependent on adenylate cyclase (AC) activity of the heart tissue. At a control rate of cyclic AMP production of less than or equal to 10 pmoles min(-)(1 )mg(-)(1) protein, the 'isoleucine' peptides produced a significant increase in AC activity in heart membrane preparations. This suggested that the enhanced AC activity is responsible for the stimulatory effects of the 'isoleucine' peptides on frequency and force of contraction of heart beat. This excitation sometimes followed an initial 'inhibitory phase' where the frequency of beat, force of contraction and tonus of the heart were reduced by the 'isoleucine' peptides. Hearts that showed the inhibitory phase of the 'isoleucine' response, but characteristically lacked the delayed excitatory phase, were found to have high levels of membrane AC activity (breve)10 pmoles min(-)(1 )mg(-)(1) protein in controls. Application of the 'isoleucine' peptides to membrane homogenate preparation from these hearts failed to increase AC activity. The addition of FMRFamide produced significant increases in the rate of cyclic AMP production in the heart membrane preparations, which could account, at least in part, for the cardioexcitatory effects of this peptide in the isolated whole heart. A membrane-permeable cyclic AMP analogue (8-bromo-cyclic AMP) and an AC activator (forskolin) were also cardioexcitatory. The peptide SEEPLY had no effects on the beat properties of the isolated heart and did not alter AC activity. The activity of the membrane-bound (particulate) guanylate cyclase (GC) was not significantly affected by any of the peptides.
This paper examines the importance of the calcium-mobilizing inositol phosphate pathway in mediating the effects of FMRFamide and its gene-related neuropeptides on the myogenic heart beat of the pond snail Lymnaea stagnalis. These peptides are encoded on a single exon of the FMRFamide gene and mediate diverse physiological effects in the isolated heart. The rate of production of inositol-1,4, 5-trisphosphate [Ins(1,4,5)P(3)] and inositol-1,3,4, 5-tetrakisphosphate [Ins(1,3,4,5)P(4)], measured using an HPLC method, were both significantly elevated in a concentration-dependent manner by FMRFamide (and were also elevated by FLRFamide). The threshold for increasing inositol phosphate production was low (100 pmol l(-1)) with a peak response occurring at 1 micromol l(-1) FMRFamide. The shape of the dose-response curve for FMRFamide-induced elevation of heart-beat frequency, obtained in pharmacological experiments on the isolated whole heart, was similar to that for stimulation of inositol phosphate levels in homogenized heart tissue. FMRFamide and Ins(1,4,5)P(3) produced similar effects on the rate of heart beat in permeabilized whole hearts. In addition, the phospholipase C inhibitor, neomycin (2.5 mmol l(-)(1)), blocked the stimulatory effects of FMRFamide on Ins(1, 4,5)P(3) production in heart homogenate, and attenuated the excitatory effects of this neuropeptide in the isolated heart. The 'isoleucine' pentapeptides, EFLRIamide and pQFYRIamide, also encoded by the FMRFamide gene, produced no significant effects on inositol phosphate production when applied alone or in combination with FMRFamide. These results suggested that FMRFamide (and FLRFamide), but not EFLRIamide and pQFYRIamide, mediated their main effects on heart beat via the inositol phosphate pathway. The fifth peptide, SEQPDVDDYLRDVVLQSEEPLY ('SEEPLY') had no effect when applied alone but appeared to modulate the effects of FMRFamide by delaying the time-to-peak of the Ins(1,4,5)P(3) response from 5 s to 20 s by an unknown mechanism.
Processing of visual stimuli by the retina changes strongly during light/dark adaptation. These changes are due to both local photoreceptor-based processes and to changes in the retinal network. The feedback pathway from horizontal cells to cones is known to be one of the pathways that is modulated strongly during adaptation. Although this phenomenon is well described, the mechanism for this change is poorly characterized. The aim of this paper is to describe the mechanism for the increase in efficiency of the feedback synapse from horizontal cells to cones. We show that a train of flashes can increase the feedback response from the horizontal cells, as measured in the cones, up to threefold. This process has a time constant of approximately 3 s and can be attributed to processes intrinsic to the cones. It does not require dopamine, is not the result of changes in the kinetics of the cone light response and is not due to changes in horizontal cells themselves. During a flash train, cones adapt to the mean light intensity, resulting in a slight (4 mV) depolarization of the cones. The time constant of this depolarization is approximately 3 s. We will show that at this depolarized membrane potential, a light-induced change of the cone membrane potential induces a larger change in the calcium current than in the unadapted condition. Furthermore, we will show that negative feedback from horizontal cells to cones can modulate the calcium current more efficiently at this depolarized cone membrane potential. The change in horizontal cell response properties during the train of flashes can be fully attributed to these changes in the synaptic efficiency. Since feedback has major consequences for the dynamic, spatial, and spectral processing, the described mechanism might be very important to optimize the retina for ambient light conditions.
Effects of actual and simulated weightlessness on choroidal guanylate cyclase activity were evaluated by assaying the production of cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP), a second messenger involved in mechanisms regulating the secretion of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) in choroid plexus. Cyclic cGMP was measured, using radio-immunoassay, in choroidal extracts of hindlimb-suspended rats (HLS rats), adapted to an anti-orthostatic restraint for 30 min., or for 3, 9 or 14 days and after a 17-day spaceflight (Life and Microgravity SpaceLab experiment; LMS). Basal cGMP levels were slightly but significantly decreased in the first 30 min. of the HLS experiment, whereas they were significantly increased in rats adapted to longer anti-orthostatic restraints. LMS flight rats demonstrated a similar increase in the choroidal cGMP baseline. After natriuretic peptide stimulation, i.e. using ANP (atrial natriuretic peptide) or BNP (brain natriuretic peptide), choroidal cGMP contents were typically increased (by 1.5-2 times; p&lt;0.05) in control rats (LMS and HLS experiments), but not significantly elevated in suspended rats, except for those adapted to HLS for 14 days. In these animals the ANP-dependent cGMP production was significantly increased (by about 3 times; p&lt;0.005). The ANP- or BNP-dependent responses were similarly abolished in LMS flight rats, which were dissected 4-6 hours after return to Earth's gravity. The role of corticosteroids was also investigated during the LMS experiment. Results on choroidal functions revealed a lack of significant change of cGMP levels between adrenalectomized and sham-operated rats. For the first time, it is reported that both basal and ANP- stimulated cGMP levels are dramatically changed over the first 14 days of suspension, i.e. with experiments known to simulate some effects of weightlessness. Basal choroidal cGMP levels are also increased after 17 days in space, suggesting that space adaptation also impacts choroidal guanylate cyclase activities. However, the absence of ANP-dependent cGMP increase, observed in LMS flight animals, suggests that HLS could not simulate all the spaceflight effects. Thus, these preliminary results seem to show that a natriuretic peptides-independent s stem is involved in choroidal adaptation to spaceflight.

We tested the hypothesis that estrogen acutely stimulates constitutive NO synthase (cNOS) activity in human peripheral monocytes by acting on an estrogen surface receptor. NO release was measured in real time with an amperometric probe. 17beta-estradiol exposure to monocytes stimulated NO release within seconds in a concentration-dependent manner, whereas 17alpha-estradiol had no effect. 17beta-estradiol conjugated to BSA (E2-BSA) also stimulated NO release, suggesting mediation by a membrane surface receptor. Tamoxifen, an estrogen receptor inhibitor, antagonized the action of both 17beta-estradiol and E2-BSA, whereas ICI 182,780, a selective inhibitor of the nuclear estrogen receptor, had no effect. We further showed, using a dual emission microfluorometry in a calcium-free medium, that the 17beta-estradiol-stimulated release of monocyte NO was dependent on the initial stimulation of intracellular calcium transients in a tamoxifen-sensitive process. Leeching out the intracellular calcium stores abolished the effect of 17beta-estradiol on NO release. RT-PCR analysis of RNA obtained from the cells revealed a strong estrogen receptor-alpha amplification signal and a weak beta signal. Taken together, a physiological dose of estrogen acutely stimulates NO release from human monocytes via the activation of an estrogen surface receptor that is coupled to increases in intracellular calcium.
The aim of this study was to identify the nature of the nerve lesions found in patients with neurological complains and with lymphedema occurring after breast cancer treated by surgery and radiotherapy. Twelve patients treated in a specialised centre for lymphology had clinical and neurophysiological examinations. This study found 9 radiation-induced plexopathies, 1 neoplasic plexopathy, 2 carpal tunnel syndromes (one isolated), 1 cervical root disease and 1 normal examination. The radiation-induced plexopathy is characterised by a chronic neurogenic involvement and the presence of (motor and sensory) proximal persistent conduction blocks. This study demonstrated that it is essential to identify with electrodiagnosis the exact nature of the nerve lesion to determine the most appropriate and effective treatment.
Activity-dependent changes in synaptic strength, which appear to underlie cortical plasticity, require long-lasting biochemical changes in the postsynaptic neuron. An inductive event common to several forms of synaptic plasticity is an influx of calcium into the postsynaptic cell. Calcium acts as a second messenger to set into motion a cascade of biochemical signaling events that leads to new gene expression. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is one such calcium-regulated gene that appears to be involved in activity-dependent cortical plasticity. Studies of the mechanism by which calcium influx induces BDNF expression have revealed that the BDNF promoter is regulated by two calcium response elements. One of the elements appears to be regulated by a novel transcription factor, while the other element is regulated by the previously characterized transcription factor CREB. The calcium signal is propagated to the CREB-mediated component of BDNF expression by CaM kinase IV. This signaling pathway, which links calcium influx to the induction of BDNF via CaM kinase IV and CREB, is likely to be centrally involved in mediating long-term activity-dependent plasticity.
Trophins are now known to acutely regulate synaptic plasticity, in addition to exerting long-recognized actions on neuronal survival and development. To begin elucidating underlying mechanisms, cultured dissociated hippocampal neurons were examined by whole-cell patch-clamp recording. BDNF (brain derived neurotrophic factor) specifically and selectively increased the integrated synaptic current twofold within five minutes. The effect was mediated postsynaptically by the trkB receptor and intracellular phosphorylation-dependent mechanisms. Iontophoresis combined with patch-clamp recording indicated that BDNF increased activity of NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartate) receptors. Single channel-channel recording indicated that BDNF increased channel open probability by increasing opening frequency. In parallel, the trophin specifically increased phosphorylation of NR1 and NR2B subunits of NMDA receptors in the postsynaptic density, providing potential mechanisms eliciting receptor activation. A model is proposed in which activity-driven experience activates specific BDNF gene promoters, leading to enhanced transcription, elevated trophin levels, postsynaptic NMDA receptor activation and increased synaptic transmission. These sequential mechanisms may contribute to enhanced long-term potentiation, a correlate of learning and memory.
The most dramatic example of experience-dependent cortical plasticity is the shift in ocular dominance that occurs in visual cortex as a consequence of monocular deprivation during early postnatal life. Many of the basic properties of this type of synaptic plasticity have been described in detail. The important challenge that remains is to understand the molecular basis for these properties. By combining theoretical analysis with experiments in vivo and in vitro, some of the elementary molecular mechanisms for visual cortical plasticity have now been uncovered.
The presence of &quot;maps&quot; in sensory cortex is a hallmark of the mammalian nervous system, but the functional significance of topographic organization has been called into question by physiological studies claiming that patterns of neural behavioral activity transcend topographic boundaries. This paper discusses recent behavioral and physiological studies suggesting that, when animals or human subjects learn perceptual tasks, the neural modifications associated with the learning are distributed according to the spatial arrangement of the primary sensory cortical map. Topographical cortical representations of sensory events, therefore, appear to constitute a true structural framework for information processing and plasticity.
Recent experiments have studied the development of orientation selectivity in normal animals, visually deprived animals, and animals where patterns of neuronal activity have been altered. Results of these experiments indicate that orientation tuning appears very early in development, and that normal patterns of activity are necessary for its normal development. Visual experience is not needed for early development of orientation, but is crucial for maintaining orientation selectivity. Neuronal activity and vision thus seem to play similar roles in the development of orientation selectivity as they do in the development of eye-specific segregation in the visual system.

A &gt;15-fold increase in vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) mRNA and VIP peptide levels occurred in primary chromaffin cells following exposure to the neurotrophic neuropeptide pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP)-27 with an EC50 of approximately 2 nM. PACAP induction of VIP expression was blocked by methoxyverapamil or by a combination of nimodipine and omega-conotoxin MVIIC, indicating a requirement for PACAP-initiated calcium entry through voltage-dependent calcium channels for regulation of VIP biosynthesis. Ascomycin, which inhibits calcineurin through formation of an ascomycin/FKBP12/calcineurin ternary complex, abolished the PACAP-evoked increase in VIP expression, whereas rapamycin, which also binds to FKBP12 but does not cause inhibition of calcineurin, did not. Cyclosporin A, which inhibits calcineurin through formation of a cyclosporin A/cyclophilin/calcineurin complex, also abolished PACAP-evoked VIP biosynthesis. These data indicate that PACAP regulates the expression of VIP via a signaling pathway that requires calcium influx and activation of calcineurin.
Adenosine's effects result from a balanced activation of inhibitory A1 and facilitatory A2A receptors. Because in aged animals there is an increased number of A2A receptors, we now compared the efficiency of A2A receptors in cortical and striatal preparations of young adult (6-week-old) and aged (2-year-old) rats. In cortical, in contrast to striatal, membranes from aged rats, A2A receptors were more tightly coupled to G proteins, because 5'-guanylylimidodiphosphate (100 microM) increased by 321% the Ki of the A2A agonist CGS21680 as a displacer of binding of the A2A antagonist [3H]ZM241385 (1 nM), compared with a 112% increase in young rats. In cortical slices, CGS21680 (30-1,000 nM) was virtually devoid of effect on cyclic AMP accumulation in young rats but increased cyclic AMP accumulation with an EC50 of 153 nM in aged rats, whereas the efficiency of CGS21680 was similar in striatal slices of young and aged rats. CGS21680 (30 nM) was virtually devoid of effect on acetylcholine release from hippocampal CA1 slices of young rats but caused a 55% facilitation in aged rats. These results show that the number of A2A receptors, their coupling to G proteins, and their efficiency are enhanced in the limbic cortex of aged rats, suggesting a greater involvement of facilitation in adenosine responses.
The N-type voltage-dependent calcium channels play a significant role in neurotransmitter release. The alpha1B subunit of the N-type calcium channel functions as the primary subunit that forms the pore and contains the structural motifs that mediate the pharmacological and gating properties of the channel. We report on an isoform of the alpha1B subunit that is preferentially expressed by the monoaminergic neurons of the rat brain. This isoform contains a 21-amino acid cassette in the synprint site present in the cytoplasmic loop between domains IIS6 and IIIS1. RT-PCR of micropunched tissue was used to show preferential expression of this isoform in regions of the brain containing monoaminergic neurons and to a lesser extent in the cerebellum. Double-label in situ hybridization was used to show expression of this isoform mRNA in dopaminergic neurons of the ventral mesencephalon. The expression of two distinct N-type calcium channels containing these alpha1B subunit isoforms by the monoaminergic neurons may provide for synapse-specific regulation of neurotransmitter release.
Rat and human serotonin 5-HT2C receptor isoforms were evaluated for agonist-independent activation of inositol phosphate production in COS-7 cells. The nonedited isoform (5-HT(2C-INI)) displayed the greatest basal activity, stimulating inositol phosphate production fourfold over the fully edited isoform (5-HT(2C--VGV)). All of the other isoforms tested displayed intermediate levels of basal activity. Decreasing receptor expression levels by 50% produced a parallel decrease in basal activity. 5-HT stimulated inositol phosphate production twofold over basal levels through the 5-HT(2C-INI) receptor and eightfold over basal levels through the 5-HT(2C-VGV) receptor but produced similar maximal levels of inositol phosphate. 5-HT competition for [3H]mesulergine binding to 5-HT(2C-INI) best fit a two-site analysis with K(H) = 7.6 nM and K(L) = 160 nM, whereas 5-HT(2C-VGV) best fit a one-site model with Ki = 163 nM. [3H]5-HT labeled 36% of the total population of 5-HT(2C-INI) receptors labeled by [3H]mesulergine but only 12% of 5-HT(2C-VGV) receptors. [H]5-HT K(D) values increased from 5.1 nM for 5-HT(2C-INI) to 20 nM for 5-HT(2C-VGV). [3H]Mesulergine K(D) values were the same for both isoforms. 5-HT EC50 values for inositol phosphate production increased from 6.1 nM for 5-HT(2C-INI) to 30 nM for 5-HT(2C-VGV). These results demonstrate that RNA editing decreases 5-HT2C receptor basal activity, agonist affinity, and potency, indicating that RNA editing may play a role in regulating serotonergic signal transduction and response to drug therapy.
We showed previously that amphetamine challenge produces a delayed increase in glutamate efflux in the ventral tegmental area of both naive and chronic amphetamine-treated rats. The present study examined the mechanisms underlying this response. The NMDA receptor antagonist MK-801 (0.1 mg/kg, i.p.) or the D1 dopamine receptor antagonist SCH 23390 (0.1 mg/kg, i.p.), given 30 min before acute amphetamine (5 mg/kg, i.p.), prevented amphetamine-induced glutamate efflux. Neither antagonist by itself altered glutamate efflux. Ibotenic acid lesions of the prefrontal cortex similarly prevented amphetamine-induced glutamate efflux, while producing a trend toward decreased basal glutamate levels (82.8% of sham group). Previous work has shown that the doses of NMDA and D1 receptor antagonists used in this study prevent the induction of behavioral sensitization when coadministered repeatedly with amphetamine, and that identical prefrontal cortex lesions performed before repeated amphetamine prevent the induction of ambulatory sensitization. Thus, treatments that prevent acute amphetamine from elevating glutamate efflux in the ventral tegmental area also prevent repeated amphetamine from eliciting behavioral sensitization. These findings suggest that repeated elevation of glutamate levels during a chronic amphetamine regimen may contribute to the cascade of neuroadaptations within the ventral tegmental area that enables the induction of sensitization.
Neurotrophic signaling pathways have been implicated in the maintenance of the mesolimbic dopamine system, as well as in changes in this system induced by chronic morphine exposure. We found that many of these signaling pathway proteins are expressed at appreciable levels within the ventral tegmental area (VTA) and related regions, although with substantial regional variation. Moreover, phospholipase Cgamma1 (PLCgamma1) was significantly and specifically up-regulated within the VTA by 30% following chronic exposure to morphine. PLCgamma1 mRNA expression is enriched in dopaminergic neurons within the VTA; however, the up-regulation of PLCgamma1 in this region was not seen at the mRNA level. In contrast to PLCgamma1, insulin receptor substrate (IRS)-2, a protein involved in phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase signaling, and another putative IRS-like protein were significantly down-regulated within the VTA by 49 and 45%, respectively. Levels of several proteins within the Ras-ERK pathway were not altered. Regulation of neurotrophic factor signaling proteins may play a role in morphine-induced plasticity within the mesolimbic dopamine system.
Our previous studies showed that dopamine inhibits Na+,K+-ATPase activity in acutely dissociated neurons from striatum. In the present study, we have found that in this preparation, dopamine inhibited significantly (by approximately 25%) the activity of the alpha3 and/or alpha2 isoforms, but not the alpha1 isoform, of Na+,K+-ATPase. Dopamine, via D1 receptors, activates cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) in striatal neurons. Dopamine is also known to activate the calcium- and phospholipid-dependent protein kinase (PKC) in a number of different cell types. The PKC activator phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate reduced the activity of Na+,K+-ATPase alpha3 and/or alpha2 isoforms (by approximately 30%) as well as the alpha1 isoform (by approximately 15%). However, dopamine-mediated inhibition of Na+,K+-ATPase activity was unaffected by calphostin C, a PKC inhibitor. Dopamine did not affect the phosphorylation of Na+,K+-ATPase isoforms at the PKA-dependent phosphorylation site. Phorbol ester treatment did not alter the phosphorylation of alpha2 or alpha3 isoforms of Na+,K+-ATPase in neostriatal neurons but did increase the phosphorylation of the alpha1 isoform. Thus, in rat neostriatal neurons, treatment with either dopamine or PKC activators results in inhibition of the activity of specific (alpha3 and/or alpha2) isoforms of Na+,K+-ATPase, but this is not apparently mediated through direct phosphorylation of the enzyme. In addition, PKC is unlikely to mediate inhibition of rat Na+,K+-ATPase activity by dopamine in neostriatal neurons.
Hair cell loss due to acoustic and ototoxic damage often leads to hearing and balance impairments. Although a spontaneous event in chicks and lower vertebrates, hair cell replacement occurs at a much lower frequency in mammals presumably due to a very low rate of supporting cell proliferation following injury. We report here that heregulin, a member of the neuregulin family, dramatically enhances proliferation of supporting cells in postnatal rat utricular epithelial sheet cultures after gentamicin treatment, as revealed by bromo-deoxyuridine (BrdU) immunocytochemistry. A dose-dependent study shows that the maximal effects of heregulin are achieved at 3 nM. The mitogenic effects of heregulin are confirmed in utricular whole mount cultures. Autoradiography of the utricular whole mount cultures shows that heregulin also enhances the number of tritiated thymidine-labeled cells within the hair cell layer. TaqMan quantitative RT-PCR analysis and immunocytochemistry reveal that heregulin and its binding receptors (ErbB-2, ErbB-3 and ErbB-4) are expressed in the inner ear sensory epithelium. Of several ligands activating various ErbB receptors, including heregulin, neuregulin-3, beta-cellulin, heparin binding-epidermal growth factor (HB-EGF), transforming growth factor-alpha (TGF-alpha) and EGF, heregulin shows the most potent mitogenic effects on supporting cells. Because neuregulin-3 that signals only through ErbB-4 does not show an effect, these data suggest that activation of the ErbB-2-ErbB-3 heterodimeric complexes, rather than ErbB-4, is critical for the proliferative response in the utricular sensory epithelium. In addition, gentamicin treatment induces an upregulation of heregulin mRNA. Considered together, heregulin may play an important role in hair cell regeneration following ototoxic damage.
Vinpocetine, a vinca alkaloid, is a widely used therapeutic agent in patients with acute and chronic stroke. To reveal the mechanisms of vinpocetine action in the brain, vinpocetine was labeled with 11C. Positron emission tomography (PET) was used to determine the uptake and distribution of [11C]vinpocetine in brain regions and the trunk of a cynomolgous monkey in two independent measurements. The concentration of vinpocetine and its labeled metabolites was determined in blood and plasma using high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). Almost identical measurements were obtained in the two independent studies. After intravenous administration, following an initial peak, the total concentration of radioactivity in blood was relatively stable with time, whereas the concentration of the unchanged compound decreased with time in an exponential manner. The uptake of [11C]vinpocetine in brain was rapid, and 5% of the radioactivity totally injected was present in the brain 2 minutes after drug administration, indicating that the compound entered the brain readily. The radioactivity uptake was heterogeneously distributed among brain regions and was highest in the thalamus, the basal ganglia, and certain neocortical regions. The high brain uptake and the heterogeneous regional distribution indicate that direct central nervous system (CNS) effects of vinpocetine must be considered as explanation for the therapeutic effects. The detailed exploration of this suggestion requires further studies.
Previous studies have addressed the question of the precision in assessing multiple sclerosis (MS) activity by counting enhancing lesions on gadolinium enhanced brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). However, counting the active lesions on serial unenhanced MRI obtained by various pulse sequences has not been yet considered. We compared the interobserver levels of agreement in reporting active MS lesions on serial enhanced and unenhanced MRI to assess whether the use of various unenhanced techniques may change the degree of interobserver measurement reproducibility. Dual-echo conventional spin echo (CSE), dual-echo fast spin echo (FSE), fast fluid-attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR) and Gd-enhanced T1-weighted brain MRI were obtained from five MS patients at baseline and monthly for 2 months. Six experienced observers independently identified and counted active MS lesions on the two follow-up MRI scans. Active lesions were considered to be all the enhancing lesions and any new or enlarging lesion on enhanced and unenhanced scans. Interobserver levels of agreement were calculated by weighted kappa values. Very good agreement was reached only for counting total and new Gd-enhancing lesions. Good agreement was achieved for counting new lesions on the three unenhanced techniques, whereas the agreement for counting enlarging lesions was poor with all the MRI techniques. The level of agreement was significantly heterogeneous for various MRI techniques but not for various lesion sites. These results confirm that counting enhancing lesions is the most reliable method for assessing MS activity, but the use of any of the available unenhanced MRI techniques did not result in different levels of interobserver agreement when reporting new and enlarging MS lesions on serial scans.

Previous studies demonstrated that transgenic mice overexpressing human neurofilament heavy (hNF-H) protein develop a progressive motor neuron disease characterized by the perikaryal accumulations of neurofilaments resembling those found in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). To further investigate this neurofilament-induced pathology, we generated transgenic mice expressing, solely or concomitantly, the hNF-H and the human neurofilament light (hNF-L) proteins. We report here that the motor neuron disease caused by excess hNF-H proteins can be rescued by overexpression of hNF-L in a dosage-dependent fashion. In hNF-H transgenic mice, the additional hNF-L led to reduction of perikaryal swellings, relief of axonal transport defect and restoration of axonal radial growth. A gene delivery approach based on recombinant adenoviruses bearing the hNF-L gene also demonstrated the possibility to reduce perikaryal swellings after their formation in adult mice. The finding that extra NF-L can protect against NF-H-mediated pathogenesis is of potential importance for ALS, particularly for cases with NF-H abnormalities.
Gram-positive Streptococcus pneumoniae is the major pathogen causing lethal meningitis in adults. We used pneumococcal cell walls (PCW) to investigate microglial consequences of a bacterial challenge and to determine the role of serum in the activation process. PCW caused the characteristic induction of an outwardly rectifying K+ channel (IK+(OR)), together with a concomitant suppression of the constitutively expressed inward rectifier K+ current, and evoked the release of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF alpha), interleukin-6 (IL-6), IL-12, KC, macrophage inflammatory protein (MIP) 1alpha and MIP-2. Serum presence strongly facilitated the PCW effects, similarly as observed for lipopolysaccharide (LPS) from gram-negative Escherichia coli. The inflammatory cytokine, interferon-gamma (IFNgamma) induced the same electrophysiological changes, but independent of serum. Recombinant LPS binding protein (LBP) could partially replace serum activity in LPS stimulations. In contrast, neither LBP nor an antibody-mediated blockade of the LPS receptor, CD14 had significant influences on PCW-inducible changes. Cell surface interactions and cofactor involvement in microglial activation by gram-positive bacteria are thus distinct from the mechanisms employed by LPS. Moreover, tyrphostin AG126, a protein kinase inhibitor that prevents activation of the mitogen-activated protein kinase, p42MAPK (ERK2), potently blocked the PCW-stimulated cytokine release while having only a limited effect on LPS-inducible cytokines. In contrast, AG126 did not influence IK+(OR) inductions. This indicates that PCW recruits more than 1 intracellular signaling pathway to trigger the various responses and that different bacterial agents signal through both common and individual routes during microglial activation.
The generation of activity-evoked extracellular alkaline shifts has been linked to the presence of external Ca(2+) or Ba(2+). We further investigated this dependence using pH- and Ca(2+)-selective microelectrodes in the CA1 area of juvenile, rat hippocampal slices. In HEPES-buffered media, alkaline transients evoked by pressure ejection of RS-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) averaged approximately 0.07 unit pH and were calculated to arise from the equivalent net addition of approximately 1 mM strong base to the interstitial space. These alkaline responses were correlated with a mean decrease in [Ca(2+)](o) of approximately 300 microM. The alkalinizations were abolished reversibly in zero-Ca(2+) media, becoming indiscernible at a [Ca(2+)](o) of 117+/-29 microM. Addition of as little as 30-50 microM Ba(2+) caused the reappearance of an alkaline response. In approximately one-fourth of slices, a persistent alkaline shift of approximately 0.03 unit pH was observed in zero-Ca(2+) saline containing EGTA. In HEPES media, addition of 300 microM Cd(2+), 100 microM Ni(2+), or 100 microM nimodipine inhibited the alkaline shifts by roughly one-half, one-third, and one-third, respectively, whereas Cd(+) and Ni(2+) in combination fully blocked the response. In bicarbonate media, by contrast, Cd(+) and Ni(2+) blocked only two-thirds of the response. In the presence of bicarbonate, Ni(2+) caused an unexpected enhancement of the alkalinization by approximately 150%. However, when the extracellular carbonic anhydrase was blocked by benzolamide, addition of Ni(2+) reduced the alkaline shift. These results suggested that Ni(2+) partially inhibited the interstitial carbonic anhydrase and thereby increased the alkaline responses. These data indicate that an activity-dependent alkaline shift is largely dependent on the entry of Ca(2+) or Ba(2+) via voltage-gated calcium channels. However, sizable alkaline transients still can be generated with little or no external presence of these ions. Implications for the mechanism of the activity-dependent alkaline shift are discussed.
The role of dendritic voltage-gated ion channels in the generation of action potential bursting was investigated using whole cell patch-clamp recordings from the soma and dendrites of CA1 pyramidal neurons located in hippocampal slices of adult rats. Under control conditions somatic current injections evoked single action potentials that were associated with an afterhyperpolarization (AHP). After localized application of 4-aminopyridine (4-AP) to the distal apical dendritic arborization, the same current injections resulted in the generation of an afterdepolarization (ADP) and multiple action potentials. This burst firing was not observed after localized application of 4-AP to the soma/proximal dendrites. The dendritic 4-AP application allowed large-amplitude Na(+)-dependent action potentials, which were prolonged in duration, to backpropagate into the distal apical dendrites. No change in action potential backpropagation was seen with proximal 4-AP application. Both the ADP and action potential bursting could be inhibited by the bath application of nonspecific concentrations of divalent Ca(2+) channel blockers (NiCl and CdCl). Ca(2+) channel blockade also reduced the dendritic action potential duration without significantly affecting spike amplitude. Low concentrations of TTX (10-50 nM) also reduced the ability of the CA1 neurons to fire in the busting mode. This effect was found to be the result of an inhibition of backpropagating dendritic action potentials and could be overcome through the coordinated injection of transient, large-amplitude depolarizing current into the dendrite. Dendritic current injections were able to restore the burst firing mode (represented as a large ADP) even in the presence of high concentrations of TTX (300-500 microM). These data suggest the role of dendritic Na(+) channels in bursting is to allow somatic/axonal action potentials to backpropagate into the dendrites where they then activate dendritic Ca(2+) channels. Although it appears that most Ca(2+) channel subtypes are important in burst generation, blockade of T- and R-type Ca(2+) channels by NiCl (75 microM) inhibited action potential bursting to a greater extent than L-channel (10 microM nimodipine) or N-, P/Q-type (1 microM omega-conotoxin MVIIC) Ca(2+) channel blockade. This suggest that the Ni-sensitive voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels have the most important role in action potential burst generation. In summary, these data suggest that the activation of dendritic voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels, by large-amplitude backpropagating spikes, provides a prolonged inward current that is capable of generating an ADP and burst of multiple action potentials in the soma of CA1 pyramidal neurons. Dendritic voltage-gated ion channels profoundly regulate the processing and storage of incoming information in CA1 pyramidal neurons by modulating the action potential firing mode from single spiking to burst firing.
Kv3.1 is a voltage-gated, fast activating/deactivating potassium (K(+)) channel with a high-threshold of activation and a large unit conductance. Kv3.1 K(+) channels are expressed in fast-spiking, parvalbumin-containing interneurons in cortex, hippocampus, striatum, the thalamic reticular nucleus (TRN), and in several nuclei of the brain stem. A high density of Kv3.1 channels contributes to short-duration action potentials, fast afterhyperpolarizations, and brief refractory periods enhancing the capability in these neurons for high-frequency firing. Kv3.1 K(+) channel expression in the TRN and cortex also suggests a role in thalamocortical and cortical function. Here we show that fast gamma and slow delta oscillations recorded from the somatomotor cortex are altered in the freely behaving Kv3.1 mutant mouse. Electroencephalographic (EEG) recordings from homozygous Kv3.1(-/-) mice show a three- to fourfold increase in both absolute and relative spectral power in the gamma frequency range (20-60 Hz). In contrast, Kv3.1-deficient mice have a 20-50% reduction of power in the slow delta range (2-3 Hz). The increase in gamma power is most prominent during waking in the 40- to 55-Hz range, whereas the decrease in delta power occurs equally across all states of arousal. Our findings suggest that Kv3. 1-expressing neurons are involved in the generation and maintenance of cortical fast gamma and slow delta oscillations. Hence the Kv3. 1-mutant mouse could serve as a model to study the generation and maintenance of fast gamma and slow delta rhythms and their involvement in behavior and cognition.
The activity of neurons in extrastriate middle temporal (MT) and medial superior temporal (MST) areas were studied during the initiation of pursuit eye movements in macaque monkeys. The intersecting motion of two stimuli was used to test hypotheses about how these direction- and speed-sensitive neurons contribute to the generation of pursuit. The amplitude and direction of the initial saccade to the target and the initial speed and direction of pursuit were best predicted by a vector-average model of the underlying neuronal activity with relatively short time and spatial separation before a visual pursuit target and a distracter stimulus crossed in the visual field. The resulting eye movements were best described by a winner-take-all model when the time and spatial separation between the two stimuli was increased before the stimuli crossed. Neurons in MT and MST also shifted their activity from that best described by a vector average to a winner-take-all model under the same stimulus conditions. The changes in activity of neurons in both areas were generally similar to each other during these changes in pursuit initiation. Thus a slight alteration in the target motion produced a concurrent shift in both the neuronal processing and the movement execution. We propose that the differences in the oculomotor behavior can be accounted for by shifts in the overlap of active neuronal populations within MT and MST.
Current-clamp recordings were made from the deep cerebellar nuclei (DCN) of 12- to 15-day-old rats to understand the factors that mediate intrinsic spontaneous firing patterns. All of the cells recorded were spontaneously active with spiking patterns ranging continuously from regular spiking to spontaneous bursting with the former predominating. A robust rebound depolarization (RD) leading to a Na(+) spike burst was elicited after the offset of hyperpolarizing current injection. The voltage and time dependence of the RD was consistent with mediation by low-threshold voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels. In addition, induction of a RD also may be affected by activation of a hyperpolarization-activated cation current, I(h). A RD could be evoked efficiently after brief high-frequency bursts of inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs) induced by stimulation of Purkinje cell axons. IPSP-driven RDs were typically much larger and longer than those elicited by direct hyperpolarizing pulses of approximately matched amplitude and duration. Intracellular perfusion of the Ca(2+) buffer bis-(o-aminophenoxy)-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid (BAPTA) dramatically enhanced the RD and its associated spiking, sometimes leading to a plateau potential that lasted several hundred milliseconds. The effects of BAPTA could be mimicked partly by application of apamin, a blocker of small conductance Ca(2+)-gated K(+) channels, but not by paxilline, which blocks large conductance Ca(2+)-gated K(+) channels. Application of both BAPTA and apamin, but not paxilline, caused cells that were regularly spiking to burst spontaneously. Taken together, our data suggest that there is a strong relationship between the ability of DCN cells to elicit a RD and their tendency burst spontaneously. The RD can be triggered by the opening of T-type Ca(2+) channels with an additional contribution of hyperpolarization-activated current I(h). RD duration is regulated by small-conductance Ca(2+)-gated K(+) channels. The RD also is modulated tonically by inhibitory inputs. All of these factors are in turn subject to alteration by extrinsic modulatory neurotransmitters and are, at least in part, responsible for determining the firing modes of DCN neurons.
We examined actions of arginine vasopressin (AVP) and amastatin (an inhibitor of the aminopeptidase that cleaves AVP) on synaptic currents in slices of rat parabrachial nucleus using the nystatin-perforated patch recording technique. AVP reversibly decreased the amplitude of the evoked, glutamate-mediated, excitatory postsynaptic current (EPSC) with an increase in paired-pulse ratio. No apparent changes in postsynaptic membrane properties were revealed by ramp protocols, and the inward current induced by a brief application of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid was unchanged after AVP. The reduction induced by 1 microM AVP could be blocked by a V(1) AVP receptor antagonist, [d(CH(2))(5)(1)-O-Me-Tyr(2)-Arg(8)]-vasopressin (Manning compound, 10 microM). Bath application of an aminopeptidase inhibitor, amastatin (10 microM), reduced the evoked EPSC, and AVP induced further synaptic depression in the presence of amastatin. Amastatin's effects also could be antagonized by the Manning compound. Corticotropin-releasing hormone slightly increased the EPSC at 1 microM, and coapplication with AVP attenuated the AVP response. Pretreatment of slices with 1 microg/ml cholera toxin or 0.5 microg/ml pertussis toxin for 20 h did not significantly affect AVP's synaptic action. The results suggest that AVP has suppressant effects on glutamatergic transmission by acting at V(1) AVP receptors, possibly through a presynaptic mechanism involving a pertussis-toxin- and cholera-toxin-resistant pathway.
The distinctive neuropsychiatric features of Alzheimer's disease (AD), dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), and frontotemporal dementia (FTD) were investigated by using the Neuropsychiatric Inventory. The patients with FTD had significantly more euphoria, aberrant motor activity, and disinhibition and significantly fewer delusions compared with the patients with AD or DLB. The patients with DLB had significantly more hallucinations compared with the AD or FTD patients. The findings clearly demonstrate that AD, DLB, and FTD have distinctive neuropsychiatric features, which may correspond to different patterns of cerebral involvement characteristic of these three major degenerative dementias.
Male mice with targeted deletion of the gene encoding the neuronal isoform of nitric oxide synthase (nNOS(-/-)) display increased aggressive behavior compared with wild-type (WT) mice. Specific pharmacological inhibition of nNOS with 7-nitroindazole also augments aggressive behavior. We report here that male mice with targeted deletion of the gene encoding endothelial NOS (eNOS(-/-)) display dramatic reductions in aggression. The effects are selective, because an extensive battery of behavioral tests reveals no other deficits. In the resident-intruder model of aggression, resident eNOS(-/-) males show virtually no aggression. Latency for aggression onset is 25-30 times longer in eNOS(-/-) males compared with WT males in the rare instances of aggressive behaviors. Similarly, a striking lack of aggression is noted in tests of aggression among groups of four mice monitored in neutral cages. Although eNOS(-/-) mice are hypertensive ( approximately 14 mmHg blood pressure elevation), hypertension does not appear responsible for the diminished aggression. Reduction of hypertension with hydralazine does not change the prevalence of aggression in eNOS(-/-) mice. Extensive examination of brains from eNOS(-/-) male mice reveals no obvious neural damage from chronic hypertension. In situ hybridization in WT animals reveals eNOS mRNA in the brain associated exclusively with blood vessels and no neuronal localizations. Accordingly, vascular eNOS in the brain appears capable of influencing behavior with considerable selectivity.
We examined the influence of extensive overtraining (75 trials) on the impact of neurotoxic basolateral amygdala (BLA) lesions on Pavlovian fear conditioning in rats. As we have shown previously, pretraining BLA lesions yielded severe deficits in the acquisition of conditional freezing in rats trained with either 1 or 25 conditioning trials. However, extensive overtraining (50 or 75 trials) mitigated deficits in conditional freezing. Under these conditions the rats with BLA lesions expressed normal and robust freezing behavior, although they required at least 10 times as much training as control rats to reach this level of performance. The ability of rats with BLA lesions to acquire and express conditional freezing after extensive overtraining was modality-specific; conditional freezing in individual rats was acquired to contextual, but not acoustic, conditional stimuli. These results suggest that neural circuitry outside of the amygdala can mediate contextual fear conditioning under some conditions. In contrast to pretraining lesions, post-training BLA lesions eradicated the memory for Pavlovian fear in rats trained with either 1 or 75 trials; this deficit was not modality-specific. Together, these results reveal that impairments in the acquisition and expression of conditional fear in rats with BLA lesions are not attributable to deficits in the performance of the freezing response but are attributable to disruptions in the learning and memory of Pavlovian fear conditioning.
Learning of a behavior at a particular age during the postnatal period presumably occurs when the functional brain circuit mediating the behavior matures. The inability to express a learned behavior, such as inhibition, may be accounted for by the functional dissociation of brain regions comprising the circuit. In this study we tested this hypothesis by measuring brain metabolic activity, as revealed by fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) autoradiography, during behavioral extinction in 12- and 17-d-old rat pups. Subjects were first trained on a straight alley runway task known as patterned single alternation (PSA), wherein reward and nonreward trials alternate successively. They were then injected with FDG and given 50 trials of continuous nonreward (i.e., extinction). Pups at postnatal day 12 (P12) demonstrated significantly slower extinction rates compared to their P17 counterparts, despite the fact that both reliably demonstrated the PSA effect, i.e., both age groups distinguished between reward and nonreward trials during acquisition. Covariance analysis revealed that the dentate gyrus, hippocampal fields CA1-3, subiculum, and lateral septal area were significantly correlated in P17 but not P12 pups. Significant correlations were also found between the lateral septal area, ventral tegmental area, and the medial septal nucleus in P17 pups. Similar correlative patterns were not found in P12 and P17 handled control animals. Taken together, these results suggest that septal, hippocampal, and mesencephalic regions may be functionally dissociated at P12, and the subsequent maturation of functional connectivity between these regions allows for the more rapid expression of behavioral inhibition during extinction at P17.
Learning-related cellular modifications were studied in the rat piriform cortex after operand conditioning. Rats were trained to discriminate positive cues in pairs of odors. In one experimental paradigm, rats were trained to memorize 35-50 pairs of odors (&quot;extensive training&quot;). In another paradigm, training was continued only until rats acquired the rule of the task, usually after learning the first two pairs of odors (&quot;short training&quot;). &quot;Pseudotrained&quot; and &quot;naive&quot; rats served as controls. We have previously shown that &quot;rule learning&quot; of this task was accompanied by reduced spike afterhyperpolarization in pyramidal neurons in brain slices of the piriform cortex. In the present study, synaptic inputs to the same cells were examined. Pairs of electrical stimuli applied to the intrinsic fibers that interconnect layer II pyramidal neurons revealed significant reduction in paired-pulse facilitation (PPF) in this pathway even after short training. PPF in shortly trained rats was reduced to the same extent as in extensively trained rats. PPF reduction did not result from modification of membrane properties in the postsynaptic cells, change in postsynaptic inhibition, or impairment of the facilitation mechanism. Extracellular field potential recordings showed enhanced synaptic transmission in these synapses. The reduction in PPF became apparent only 3 d after task acquisition and returned to control value 5 d later. PPF evoked by stimulating the afferent fibers to the same neurons was increased 1 d after training for 2 d. We suggest that the transient enhancement in connectivity in the intrinsic pathway is related to the enhanced learning capability and not to memory for specific odors, which lasts for weeks.
Oligodendrocytes (OLs) extend processes to contact axons as a prerequisite step in myelin formation. As the OL processes migrate toward their axonal targets, they modify adhesion to their substrate, an event that may be regulated by matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs). In the mouse optic nerve, MMP-9/gelatinase B increases during myelin formation. Although tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase (TIMP)-3 also increases in parallel, the developing optic nerve has focally active MMPs demonstrable by in situ zymography. The distribution of proteolytic activity is similar to that of myelin basic protein, a marker of myelin formation. OLs in culture secrete MMP-9 and express active cell-associated metalloproteinases at the growing tips of their processes. TIMP-1 and a function-perturbing anti-MMP-9 antibody attenuate outgrowth of processes by OLs, indicating a requirement for MMP-9 in process outgrowth. Process reformation is retarded significantly in OLs cultured from MMP-9 null mice, as compared with controls, providing genetic evidence that MMP-9 is necessary for process outgrowth. These data show that MMP-9 facilitates process outgrowth by OLs in vivo and in culture.
Most neurons store peptides in large dense core vesicles (LDCVs) and release the neuropeptides in a regulated manner. Although LDCVs have been studied in endocrine cells, less is known about these storage organelles in neurons. In this study we use the endogenous peptide NPY (neuropeptide Y) and the endogenous peptide-processing enzyme PAM (peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase) as tools to study the peptidergic system in cultured neurons from the superior cervical ganglion (SCG). Once mature, SCG neurons devote as much of their biosynthetic capabilities to neurotransmitter production as endocrine cells devote to hormone production. Unlike pituitary and atrium, SCG neurons cleave almost all of the bifunctional PAM protein they produce into soluble monofunctional enzymes. Very little PAM or NPY is secreted under basal conditions, and the addition of secretagogue dramatically stimulates the secretion of PAM and NPY to a similar extent. Although endocrine cells typically package &quot;foreign&quot; secretory products together with endogenous products, pro-opiomelanocortin- and PAM-derived products encoded by adenovirus in large part were excluded from the LDCVs of SCG neurons. When expressed in corticotrope tumor cells and primary anterior pituitary cultures, the same virally encoded products were metabolized normally. The differences that were observed could reflect differences in the properties of neuronal and endocrine peptidergic systems or differences in the ability of neurons and endocrine cells to express viral transcripts.
The site for interactions between the nervous system and much of the chemical world is in the olfactory sensory neuron (OSN). Odorant receptor proteins (ORPs) are postulated to mediate these interactions. However, the function of most ORPs has not been demonstrated in vivo or in vitro. For this and other reasons, we created a conditionally immortalized cell line derived from the OSN lineage, which we term odora. Odora cells, under control conditions, are phenotypically similar to the OSN progenitor, the globose basal cell. After differentiation, odora cells more closely resemble OSNs. Differentiated odora cells express neuronal and olfactory markers, including components of the olfactory signal transduction pathway. Unlike other cell lines, they also efficiently target exogenous ORPs to their surface. Strikingly, differentiated odora cells expressing ORPs respond to odorants, as measured by an influx of calcium. In particular, cells expressing one ORP demonstrate a specific response to only one type of tested odorant. Odora cells, therefore, are ideal models to examine the genesis and function of olfactory sensory neurons.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) is a target-derived trophic factor for developing sympathetic and cutaneous sensory neurons. NGF promotes growth and survival of neurons via activation of the receptor tyrosine kinase TrkA. We used compartmentalized cultures of sympathetic neurons to address the mechanism of NGF signaling from distal axons and terminals to proximal axons and cell bodies. Our results demonstrate that an NGF-phospho-TrkA (NGF-P-TrkA)-signaling complex forms in distal axons and is retrogradely transported as a complex to cell bodies of sympathetic neurons. Although a minor fraction of both NGF and TrkA is retrogradely transported, a large fraction of the NGF that is retrogradely transported is found complexed with retrogradely transported TrkA. Interestingly, the metabolism of the P-TrkA complex is dramatically different in young, NGF-dependent sympathetic neurons as compared to older, NGF-independent sympathetic neurons. After withdrawal of NGF from distal axons of young neurons, P-TrkA within distal axons, as well as within proximal axons and cell bodies, dephosphorylates rapidly. In contrast, after withdrawal of NGF from distal axons of older neurons, P-TrkA within distal axons dephosphorylates completely, although more slowly than that in young neurons, whereas dephosphorylation of P-TrkA within proximal axons and cell bodies occurs markedly more slowly, with at least one-half of the level of P-TrkA remaining 2 d after NGF withdrawal. Thus, P-TrkA within the cell bodies of young, NGF-dependent sympathetic neurons is derived from distal axons. A more stable P-TrkA complex within cell bodies of mature sympathetic neurons may contribute to the acquisition of NGF independence for survival of mature sympathetic neurons.
Post-traumatic cystic cavitation, in which the size and severity of a CNS injury progress from a small area of direct trauma to a greatly enlarged secondary injury surrounded by glial scar tissue, is a poorly understood complication of damage to the brain and spinal cord. Using minimally invasive techniques to avoid primary physical injury, this study demonstrates in vivo that inflammatory processes alone initiate a cascade of secondary tissue damage, progressive cavitation, and glial scarring in the CNS. An in vitro model allowed us to test the hypothesis that specific molecules that stimulate macrophage inflammatory activation are an important step in initiating secondary neuropathology. Time-lapse video analyses of inflammation-induced cavitation in our in vitro model revealed that this process occurs primarily via a previously undescribed cellular mechanism involving dramatic astrocyte morphological changes and rapid migration. The physical process of cavitation leads to astrocyte abandonment of neuronal processes, neurite stretching, and secondary injury. The macrophage mannose receptor and the complement receptor type 3 beta2-integrin are implicated in the cascade that induces cavity and scar formation. We also demonstrate that anti-inflammatory agents modulating transcription via the nuclear hormone receptor peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma may be therapeutic in preventing progressive cavitation by limiting inflammation and subsequent secondary damage after CNS injury.
Vasospasm is the leading cause of death in patients who survive initial subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). Evidence of blood in the subarachnoid space on computed tomography (CT) scan can often predict the occurrence of vasospasm. Clinically, the onset of new or worsening neurological symptoms is the most reliable indicator of vasospasm. Transcranial Doppler (TCD) sonography studies can further aid the neuroscience nurse's assessment for vasospasm by measuring cerebral blood flow velocities. Physiological changes that occur during vasospasm cause the lumen of the blood vessel to decrease, increasing blood flow velocity through the affected area. Although vasospasm can only be definitively diagnosed by cerebral angiogram, TCD sonography provides a noninvasive, low-risk assessment tool that can be done at the beside. By coupling a patient's vital neurological data with blood flow velocity trends, the neuroscience nurse can anticipate the onset or worsening of vasospasm. This advanced nursing assessment allows for collaboration with the medical team to initiate and adjust appropriate therapies to improve patient outcomes.
The ability to learn and form memories depends on specific patterns of synaptic activity and is in part transcription dependent. However, the signal transduction pathways that connect signals generated at synapses with transcriptional responses in the nucleus are not well understood. In the present report, we discuss three signal transduction pathways: the Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent kinase (CaMK) pathway, the Ras/ERK pathway, and the SAPK pathways that might function to couple synaptic activity to long-term adaptive responses, in part through the regulation of new gene expression. Evidence suggests that these pathways become activated in response to stimuli that regulate synaptic function such as the influx of extracellular Ca(2+) and certain neurotrophin growth factors such as brain-derived neurotrophic factor. Once activated, the CaMK, Ras/ERK, and SAPK pathways lead to the phosphorylation and activation of transcription factors in the nucleus such as the cyclic AMP response element binding protein (CREB). Genes regulated by CREB or other transcription factor targets of the CaMK, Ras/ERK, and SAPK pathways could mediate important adaptive responses to changes in synaptic activity such as changes in synaptic strength and the regulation of neuronal survival and death.
Long-term potentiation (LTP) is the most widely studied form of neuroplasticity and is believed by many in the field to be the substrate for learning and memory. For this reason, an understanding of the mechanisms underlying LTP is thought to be of fundamental importance to the neurosciences, but a definitive linkage of LTP to learning or memory has not been achieved. Much of the correlational data used to support this claim is ambiguous and controversial, precluding any solid conclusion about the functional relevance of this often artificially induced form of neuroplasticity. In spite of this fact, the belief that LTP is a mechanism subserving learning and/or memory has become so dominant in the field that the investigation of other potential roles or actions of LTP-like phenomena in the nervous system has been seriously hindered. The multiple subtypes of the phenomena and the myriad molecules apparently involved in these subtypes raise the possibility that observed forms of LTP may represent very different types of modification events, with vastly different consequences for neural function and survival. A relationship between LTP and neuropathology is suggested in part by the fact that many of the molecular processes involved in LTP induction or maintenance are the same as those activated during excitotoxic events in neurons. In addition, some LTP subtypes are clearly induced by pathological stimuli, e.g., anoxic LTP. Such data raise the possibility that LTP is part of a continuum of types of neural modification, some leading to beneficial alterations such as may occur in learning and others that may be primarily pathological in nature, as in kindling and excitotoxicity. In this article, we introduce a plasticity-pathology continuum model that is designed to place the various forms of neural modification into proper context. In vitro and kindling receptor regulation studies are used to provide a basis for evaluating the specific synaptic/cellular response modification along the continuum of events, from beneficial to detrimental, that will be induced by a particular stimulus.
We review three principally different forms of injury-induced synaptic alterations. (1) Displacement of presynaptic terminals from perikarya and dendrites of axotomized neurons, (2) central changes in primary afferent terminals of peripherally axotomized sensory ganglion cells, and (3) anterograde Wallerian-type degeneration following interruption of central axonal pathways. All these instances rapidly activate astrocytes and microglia in the vicinity of the affected synaptic terminals. The evidence suggests that activated astrocytes play important and direct roles in synapse elimination and in the processes mediating collateral reinnervation. The roles of microglia are enigmatic. They undergo activation close to axotomized motoneuron perikarya, where synapse displacement occurs, but not adjacent to axotomized intrinsic central nervous system neurons, where synapse displacement also occurs. Microglia are also rapidly activated around central primary sensory terminals of peripherally axotomized sensory ganglion cells. Occasional phagocytosis of degenerating axon terminals by microglia occur in the latter situation. However, the role of microglia may be more oriented toward the general tissue conditions rather than specifically toward synaptic terminals.
Electrical and chemical signals representing macroscopic &quot;perturbations&quot; in brain networks engage large numbers of transient &quot;microscopic&quot; ionic channel fluctuations in producing long-lasting changes of conductance (and thus potential). Repeated electrical and chemical signals that occur during associative training of living organisms (from mollusc to mammal) can cause ionic conductance changes lasting from days to many weeks. If a stimulus pattern reoccurs with sufficient frequency, voltage-dependent K(+) conductances-responsible for both synaptic and intrinsic membrane currents-become progressively less probabilistic and more deterministic. In effect, more deterministic ion channel functions record in associative memory more deterministic (i.e., higher probability) events in the environment. This memory has been found to be stored within brain networks as ensembles of local dendritic ionic conductance changes distributed throughout brain regions such as the hippocampus and cerebellar cortex. Numerous other studies taken together support the hypothesis that distributed dendritic loci store associative memory, do not involve long-term potentiation, are also loci for Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathophysiology, and can contribute to, if not be responsible for, early memory loss in clinically manifest AD. J. Neurosci. Res. 58:24-32, 1999. Published 1999 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
Memory suppressor genes encode proteins that act as inhibitory constraints to impede memory storage. The study of memory suppressor genes is important not only for understanding the link between synaptic plasticity and learning but also for identifying potential targets for future pharmaceuticals to treat memory disorders. This article first reviews the evidence for proteins that impede memory storage from work in invertebrates and then explores recent evidence for the existence of memory suppressor genes in vertebrates in the context of hippocampus-dependent forms of memory. In Aplysia, memory suppressor gene products act at each step in long-term facilitation: in the cytoplasm to regulate kinase activity, in the nucleus to alter the activity of transcriptional regulatory proteins, and on the cell surface to modulate cell-cell interactions. Studies of genetically modified Drosophila have provided behavioral evidence for the existence of memory suppressor genes. One of the best candidates for a neuronal mechanism underlying learning is long-term potentiation (LTP), which has been extensively studied in the mammalian hippocampus. Recent work has identified a number of putative memory suppressor gene products that act in the hippocampus at the levels of LTP induction, regulation of intracellular signaling cascades, and transcriptional control. Using these gene products as tools to study enhancements rather than deficits in LTP and learning may generate more precise information about the relationship between synaptic plasticity and behavioral learning. The study of mammalian memory suppressor genes may provide insights into alleviating the learning and memory deficits that accompany both normal aging and a variety of human disorders.
Previous reports show that naloxone improves ischemic deficits and clinical conditions in patients after subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). These observations have raised concern about the routine use of morphine in the treatment of severe headache after SAH. The present study was carried out to investigate the effects of morphine on cerebral vasoreactivity after experimental SAH. Cerebral blood flow (CBF) autoregulation was studied in two groups of eight rats each with experimental SAH. A bolus intravenous injection of morphine, 1 mg/kg, was administered in one group and the other was used as a control group. During eucapnia, CBF was measured by the intracarotid 133Xenon method during decreasing mean arterial blood pressure (MABP). CO2-reactivity was investigated in two corresponding groups where CBF was measured at decreasing PaCO2 levels during constant MABP. Morphine decreased mean baseline CBF by 34% and 26% in the study of autoregulation and CO2-reactivity, respectively. Cerebral blood flow autoregulation was found impaired in both controls and the morphine group. However, the mean slope of the linear regression lines of CBF/MABP was 0.49 +/- 0.32 ml/100g/min/mm Hg in the morphine group, which was significantly lower than 1.24 +/- 0.59 ml/100g/min/mm Hg in the controls (p &lt; 0.05). Also the mean CO2-reactivity was significantly lower, 0.64 +/- 0.53 %/0.1kPa, in the morphine group, compared to 2.36 +/- 0.87 %/0.1kPa in the controls (p &lt; 0.001). The results show that in rats with SAH, morphine partially restores CBF autoregulation but attenuates CO2-reactivity.
The effect of mild closed head trauma, induced by the weight-drop method (450 g from a 1-m height), on lipid peroxidation and energy metabolism of brain tissue was determined at various times after cerebral injury in spontaneously breathing rats (1, 10, 30 minutes and 2, 6, 15, 24, 48, and 120 hours). Animals were continuously monitored for the evaluation of blood pressure, blood gases, heart rate, and intracranial pressure. Analysis of malondialdehyde (MDA) as an index of lipid peroxidation, ascorbic acid, high-energy phosphates, nicotinic coenzymes, oxypurines, and nucleosides was performed by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) on neutralized perchloric acid extract of the whole brain. Data showed that MDA, undetectable in control, sham-operated rats, was already present within 1 minute of trauma (1.77 nmol/g wet weight; SD = 0.29) and reached maximal values by 2 hours (72.26 nmol/g w.w.; SD = 11.26), showing a progressive slow decrease thereafter. In contrast, ATP, GTP, and nicotinic coenzyme (NAD and NADP) concentrations showed significant reduction only by the second hour postinjury. Maximal decrease of the ATP and GTP concentrations were seen at 6 hours postinjury, whereas NAD and NADP concentrations showed maximum decline by 15 hours. Values recorded in mechanically ventilated rats did not differ significantly from those obtained in spontaneously breathing animals. These findings, supported by the absence of blood gas and blood pressure changes in the spontaneously breathing rats, strongly support the premise that biochemical changes (primarily lipid peroxidation) are not caused by secondary ischemic-hypoxic phenomena but rather are triggered by these forces acting on the brain at the time of impact. In addition, these results suggest that depression of energy metabolism might be caused by peroxidation of the mitochondrial membrane with a consequent alteration of the main mitochondrial function-that is, the energy supply.
Although an operationalized and commonly accepted definition of maladaptiveness is lacking, the delineation of personality traits as being adaptive or maladaptive is essential in diagnosing personality disorders (PDs). A way to explore the meaning of maladaptiveness is to compare how patients from all DSM-III-R PDs relate to different traits and dimensions of various dimensional models of personality. In the present study, the Karolinska Scales of Personality (KSP) were used in a sample of 94 psychiatric outpatients who were assessed according to severity of maladaption and according to type of predominant cluster type of deviant traits. Only one of four factors of the scores of the KSP subscales, &quot;Interpersonal Aversiveness,&quot; was related to degree of maladaption, indicating high detachment, suspicion, irritability, dysphoria, and low socialization as core features of maladaptiveness. Three subscales of the KSP Socialization were all associated with maladaptiveness. However, one subscale, &quot;Childhood Adjustment,&quot; was also related to the predominant cluster type of personality pathology.
Synchronous hippocampal electroencephalographic activity occurring in a frequency range of 3 to12 Hz (i.e., hippocampal theta rhythm) has been associated with mnemonic processes in vivo. However, this link is tenuous and theta rhythm may be secondary to processes that underlie mnemonic function. If theta rhythm is associated with mnemonic or cognitive function, cognition-enhancing drugs should enhance theta rhythm regardless of their primary biological target. In the current study, we evaluated several drugs that were shown to have cognition-enhancing properties in preclinical behavioral models and that vary with respect to their primary biological target: 1) the nootropic piracetam (250 and 500 mg/kg); 2) the small-conductance calcium-activated potassium-channel blocker apamin (0.1 and 0.4 mg/kg); and 3) the acetylcholinesterase inhibitor donepezil (0.1-10.0 mg/kg). All of the cognition-enhancing drugs produced dose-dependent increases in hippocampal theta rhythm amplitude elicited by stimulation of the brainstem reticular formation at doses that did not affect peak theta frequency in the urethane-anesthetized rat. These increases were reversed by the muscarinic receptor antagonist scopolamine, suggesting a common final cholinergic action of these compounds. The use-dependent N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist dizocilipine maleate and scopolamine reduced theta amplitude (both) and frequency (dizocilipine maleate only). These data demonstrate that hippocampal theta rhythm is sensitive to cognition-modulating compounds, suggesting that theta rhythm may be closely associated with cognitive function.
We previously reported that the intraplantar (i.pl.) application of nociceptin/orphanin FQ (N/OFQ) at extremely low doses elicited a nociception through a substance P (SP) release from nociceptor endings. In the present study, the nociception induced by SP (and N/OFQ) was abolished by intrathecal (i.t.) injection of neurokinin(1) (SP receptor) antagonist, suggesting the involvement of the stimulation of nociceptive primary SP neuron and SP release into spinal synapses. On the other hand, similar low doses of N/OFQ (i.t.) exerted nociceptive responses, characterized by scratching, biting, and licking, and these responses were blocked by an neurokinin(1) antagonist (i.t.) or capsaicin pretreatment or in tachykinin 1 gene knockout mice (tac1(-/-) mice), suggesting that N/OFQ receptor (NOR) also exists on the spinal terminals of SP neurons. When wide ranges of N/OFQ doses were used, a typical bell-shaped dose-response relationship was observed in both peripheral and central nociception tests. Furthermore, N/OFQ (1 nmol) administered i.pl. blocked SP (i.pl.)-induced flexor responses, which were abolished by pertussis toxin pretreatment or in NOR gene knockout (NOR(-/-)) mice. On the other hand, N/OFQ administered i.t. blocked SP (i.t.)-induced scratching, biting, and licking in capsaicin-pretreated and tac1(-/-) mice, and this antinociception was abolished in NOR(-/-) mice. All these findings suggest that N/OFQ has biphasic actions depending on doses in the nociceptors and spinal synapses and has postsynaptic antinociceptive actions in spinal cord by modulating SP signaling.
Recent pharmacological studies have led to the hypothesis that aminoglycoside-induced ototoxicity is an excitotoxic process mediated, at least in part, by a polyamine-like modulation of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors. To explore this hypothesis, we compared the effects of several aminoglycosides (neomycin B, kanamycin A, streptomycin, and dihydrostreptomycin) with spermine on recombinant NMDA receptors of defined composition expressed in Xenopus oocytes. Like spermine, aminoglycosides potentiate agonist-induced responses in the presence of both saturating glycine (&quot;glycine-independent&quot;) and subsaturating glycine (&quot;glycine-dependent&quot;) concentrations on NR1A/2B receptors. Likewise, aminoglycosides and spermine potentiated the agonist responses under glycine-dependent conditions on NR1A/2A receptors. Despite these similarities, several prominent differences were observed between spermine and aminoglycosides as well as among individual aminoglycosides. For example, neomycin B, streptomycin, and kanamycin A, but neither spermine nor dihydrostreptomycin, potentiated glycine-dependent responses on NR1A/2C receptors. Differences between spermine and aminoglycosides also were observed with respect to the voltage dependence of polyamine-like actions. For example, under glycine-dependent conditions, potentiation at NR1A/2B receptors by spermine was voltage dependent, decreasing as the holding potential was changed from -35 to -85 mV; in contrast, potentiation induced by aminoglycosides at NR1A/2B receptors was voltage independent. No direct relationships emerged between the effect of an aminoglycoside at a specific NMDA receptor subtype and the ototoxicity of these antibiotics.
By means of the expression of two chimeric receptors, alpha(2)/M(3) and M(3)/alpha(2), in which the carboxy-terminal receptor portions, containing transmembrane domains VI and VII, were exchanged between the alpha(2C)-adrenergic and the M(3) muscarinic receptor, it has been shown that G protein-coupled receptors are able to interact functionally with each other at the molecular level to form (hetero)dimers. In the present study, we tested the hypothesis that interaction between two different muscarinic receptor subtypes can lead to the formation of a heterodimeric muscarinic receptor with a new pharmacological profile. Initially, muscarinic M(2) or M(3) wild-type receptors were expressed together with gene fragments originating from M(3) or M(2) receptors, respectively. Antagonist binding, performed with pirenzepine and tripitramine, revealed the presence of two populations of binding sites: one represents the wild-type M(2) or M(3) receptors, the other the heterodimeric M(2)/M(3) receptor. In another set of experiments, we constructed a point mutant M(2) receptor M(2) (Asn404--&gt;Ser), in which asparagine 404 was replaced by serine. Although this receptor alone did not show any binding for N-[(3)H]methylscopolamine (up to 2 nM), when cotransfected with M(3), it resulted in the rescue of a high-affinity binding for tripitramine. These findings demonstrate that M(2) and M(3) muscarinic receptor subtypes can cross-interact with each other and form a new pharmacological heterodimeric receptor.
Clinical studies have shown that pindolol can enhance the effects of antidepressant drugs, presumably by acting as an antagonist at somatodendritic 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)(1A) autoreceptors, which regulate the firing rate of central serotonergic neurons. The current study characterized the action of pindolol on the single-unit activity of serotonergic neurons in the dorsal raphe nucleus of freely moving cats. (+/-)-Pindolol produced a dose-dependent inhibition of neuronal activity after i.v. (ED(50) = 0.25 mg/kg) and s.c. (ED(50) = 1.23 mg/kg) administration. The active enantiomer (-)-pindolol (1 mg/kg i.v.) also suppressed neuronal activity (maximal decrease, 88%). Upon p.o. administration, (+/-)-pindolol (10 mg/kg) produced a marked, long-acting suppression of neuronal activity similar to that observed after s.c. administration. In all cases, the reduction in firing rate produced by pindolol was completely reversed by low doses of N-[2-[4-(2-methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl]-ethyl]-N-(2-pyridinyl)cycloh exanecarboxamide (WAY-100635) (0.1 mg/kg i.v. or 0.2 mg/kg s.c.), a selective 5-HT(1A) antagonist. Systemic administration of (-)-tertatolol (1-5 mg/kg i.v.), another beta-adrenoceptor blocker/putative 5-HT(1A) antagonist, had no significant effect on neuronal activity. The ability of i.v. (+/-)-pindolol (0.1-1 mg/kg) to reverse the suppression of serotonergic neuronal activity produced by 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin (8-OH-DPAT) (10 microg/kg i.v.), a selective 5-HT(1A) agonist, also was examined. (+/-)-Pindolol had no appreciable effect on the action of 8-OH-DPAT. In contrast, the 5-HT(1A) antagonist drugs WAY-100635 (0.1 mg/kg i.v. ), 4-fluoro-N-[2-[4-(2-methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl]ethyl]-N-2-pyridinyl benzamide (0.1 mg/kg, i.v.), N-tert-butyl-3-(4-(2-methoxyphenyl)piperazin-1-yl)-2-phenylprop anamid e [(S)-WAY-100135] (0.5 mg/kg i.v.), and (-)-tertatolol (1-5 mg/kg i. v.) reversed the effect of 8-OH-DPAT to varying degrees. Overall, these results indicate that pindolol acts as an agonist rather than an antagonist at 5-HT(1A) autoreceptors in awake animals.
The ability of pindolol to enhance the clinical antidepressant response to selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) is generally attributed to a blockade of the feedback inhibition of serotonergic neuronal activity mediated by somatodendritic 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)(1A) autoreceptors. The current study examined the ability of pindolol to restore the single-unit activity of serotonergic dorsal raphe nucleus neurons in awake cats after acute treatment with the SSRI fluoxetine. The effects of pindolol were compared with those of N-[2-[4-(2-methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl]ethyl]-N-(2-pyridinyl)cyclohe xanecarboxamide (WAY-100635), a selective 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonist. Systemic administration of fluoxetine (0.5 and 5 mg/kg i. v.) decreased neuronal firing rates to approximately 50 and 1%, respectively, of baseline levels. The subsequent administration of cumulative doses of (+/-)-pindolol (0.1-5 mg/kg i.v.) failed to reverse the neuronal inhibition produced by either dose of fluoxetine. In addition to lacking efficacy as an antagonist in these experiments, (+/-)-pindolol produced an additional decrease in neuronal activity in animals pretreated with the low dose of fluoxetine. The active enantiomer, (-)-pindolol (1 mg/kg i.v.), also was ineffective in restoring neuronal activity after fluoxetine. In contrast, systemic administration of WAY-100635 completely reversed the effect of fluoxetine (5 mg/kg) at low doses (0.025 mg/kg i.v.), and further elevated the firing rate of these neurons above prefluoxetine baseline levels. Overall, these results indicate that pindolol, unlike WAY-100635, lacks appreciable antagonist activity at 5-HT(1A) autoreceptors. Thus, the clinical efficacy of pindolol in augmenting the antidepressant response to SSRIs, such as fluoxetine, may be unrelated to a restoration of serotonergic neuronal activity.
Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) localized to excitatory longitudinal muscle motoneurons were studied in segments of guinea pig ileum maintained in vitro. Longitudinal muscle contractions caused by the nAChRs agonists, dimethylphenylpiperazinium (DMPP), nicotine, and cytisine were measured using isometric strain gauge transducers. In normal Krebs' solution, the nAChR agonists caused concentration-dependent biphasic contractions with a rank order potency of DMPP &gt; cytisine = nicotine. Contractions caused by DMPP and nicotine were inhibited more than 80% by tetrodotoxin (TTX, 0.3 microM). Responses caused by DMPP were inhibited in a concentration-dependent manner by the competitive nAChR antagonist dihydro-beta-erythroidine (pA(2) = 5.4). In the presence of scopolamine (1 microM) to block muscarinic cholinergic receptors, the nAChR agonists caused longitudinal muscle contractions that were monophasic and smaller in amplitude than those recorded in the absence of scopolamine. With scopolamine present, the agonist rank order potency was nicotine = DMPP &gt; cytisine. Contractions caused by DMPP and nicotine (each at 100 microM) were reduced by TTX by only 52 +/- 7 and 59 +/- 6%, respectively. Noncholinergic contractions caused by DMPP and nicotine were blocked by the neurokinin-1 receptor antagonist, CP 96,345-1 (0.3 microM). Dihydro-beta-erythroidine also inhibited noncholinergic contractions caused by DMPP with a pA(2) value of 5.4. It is concluded that nAChRs are localized to the somatodendritic region of excitatory longitudinal muscle motoneurons. There are also nAChRs localized to the nerve terminals of these neurons where agonists can cause noncholinergic contractions via a TTX-insensitive mechanism.
The induction of an early increase in polyamine metabolism, termed &quot;the polyamine response,&quot; is now recognized to have a critical role in the reaction of neurons to injury. Several studies in experimental animals have demonstrated that treatment with the naturally occurring polyamines spermine, spermidine, and putrescine can protect neurons from dying after the infliction of various types of neurotrauma, including mechanical injuries, neurotoxic insults, and ischemia. These findings led us to synthesize a series of polyamine derivatives of 1-aminoindan and 1-aminotetralin and to determine their effects in several in vitro and in vivo models of neurotrauma. Some of the novel compounds proved to be potent neuroprotective in these models, and one of them, N, N-di-(4-aminobutyl)-1-aminoindan, was superior to the others and to the natural polyamines themselves. We conclude that compounds based on the novel polyamine-based structures we synthesized have therapeutic potential as neuroprotective agents.
1. The relationship between muscarinic receptor activation, phosphoinositide turnover, calcium mobilisation and M-current inhibition has been studied in rat superior cervical ganglion (SCG) neurones in primary culture. 2. Phosphoinositide-specific phospholipase C (PLC) stimulation was measured by the accumulation of [3H]-cytidine monophosphate phosphatidate (CMP-PA) after incubation with [3H]-cytidine in the presence of Li+. The muscarinic agonist oxotremorine methiodide (oxo-M) stimulated PLC in a dose-dependent manner with an EC50 of approximately 3.5 microM. 3. The concentration-response curve for oxo-M was shifted to the right by a factor of about 10 by pirenzepine (100 nM), suggesting a pKB (-log of the apparent dissociation constant) of 7.9 +/- 0.4, while himbacine (1 microM) shifted the curve by a factor of about 13 (pKB approximately 7.1 +/- 0.6). This indicates involvement of the M1 muscarinic receptor in this response. 4. The accumulation of CMP-PA was localised by in situ autoradiography to SCG principal neurones, with no detectable signal in glial cells present in the primary cultures. 5. The ability of oxo-M to release Ca2+ from inositol(1,4, 5)trisphosphate (InsP3)-sensitive stores was determined by fura-2 microfluorimetry of SCG neurones voltage clamped in perforated patch mode. Oxo-M failed to evoke intracellular Ca2+ (Ca2+i) mobilisation in SCG neurones voltage clamped at -60 mV, but produced a significant Ca2+i rise (67 +/- 15 nM, n = 9) in cells voltage clamped at -25 mV. 6. Thapsigargin (0.5-1 microM) caused a 70 % inhibition of the oxo-M-induced Ca2+i increase, indicating its intracellular origin, while oxo-M-induced inhibition of M-current in the same cells was unaffected by thapsigargin. 7. Our results do not support the involvement of InsP3-sensitive calcium mobilisation in M-current inhibition.
Neurosecretion competence is a fundamental property that enables differentiated neurones and professional neurosecretory cells to store neurotransmitters and hormones in specialized organelles, the synaptic-like vesicles and dense granules, and to release them by regulated exocytosis. In our laboratory, the study of rat phaeochromocytoma (PC12) clones that fail to express the above organelles or any other components involved in neurosecretion, whilst maintaining most of the general markers of the parental population, has served to demonstrate that this trait is controlled independently from the rest of the phenotype. The present review focuses on recent advances in elucidating the molecular mechanisms governing neurosecretion competence. Moreover, the opportunities that such neurosecretion-defective PC12 clones offer for the investigation of new aspects of regulated exocytosis and the localization of its components are summarized.

This study measured behavioral speech-sound discrimination and a neurophysiologic correlate of discrimination in normal school-age children (ages 6 to 15) to determine if developmental effects exist. Just noticeable differences (JNDs) and mismatch responses (MMNs) were assessed for synthetic syllables that differed in third-formant onset frequency (/da-ga/) and formant transition duration (/ba-wa/). These stimuli were selected because children with learning problems often find it difficult to discriminate rapid spectrotemporal changes like /da-ga/, whereas the ability to distinguish /ba-wa/ is relatively unimpaired. Results indicate that JNDs for /da-ga/ show no developmental effects and that JNDs for /ba-wa/ decrease slightly with age (although likely for task-related reasons). MMNs elicited by two /da-ga/ stimulus pairs (onset frequency differences = 20 Hz, 280 Hz) and three /ba-wa/ stimulus pairs (transition duration differences = 3, 5, 15 ms) showed no systematic or significant differences for onset latency, duration, or area as a function of age. Normative JND and MMN data are provided. These norms provide a metric against which children with suspected central auditory processing difficulties or auditory-based language disorders can be compared.

Mice infected with mouse hepatitis virus strain JHM (MHV-JHM) develop a chronic demyelinating encephalomyelitis that is in large part immune mediated. Potential mechanisms of immune activity were assessed using an adoptive transfer system. Mice deficient in recombinase-activating gene function (RAG1(-/-)), defective in B- and T-cell maturation, become persistently infected with MHV but do not develop demyelination. Adoptive transfer of splenocytes from mice immunized to MHV into RAG1(-/-) mice infected with an attenuated strain of the virus results in the rapid and progressive development of demyelination. Most striking, adoptive transfer resulted, within 5 to 6 days, in extensive recruitment of activated macrophages/microglia to sites of demyelination within the spinal cord. Clearance of virus antigen occurred preferentially from the gray matter of the spinal cord. Apoptotic cells were identified in both the gray and white matter of the central nervous system (CNS) from RAG1(-/-) mice before and after adoptive transfer, with a moderate increase in number, but not distribution, of apoptotic cells following the development of demyelination. These results suggest that apoptosis following MHV-JHM infection of the murine CNS is not sufficient to cause demyelination. These results, showing that macrophage recruitment and myelin destruction occur rapidly after immune reconstitution of RAG(-/-) mice, suggest that this will be a useful system for investigating MHV-induced demyelination.
To identify lung and head-and-neck cancer patients who will have difficulty stopping smoking it is necessary to measure the severity of their nicotine dependence. In this study, we compiled a Japanese version of the Fagerstrom test for nicotine dependence (FTND) and examined its reliability and validity. One hundred and fifty-one cancer patients participated in this study and took our Japanese version of the FTND. Socio-demographic and medical data and information about smoking habits were obtained from a semi-structured interview, and the patients' nicotine dependence was evaluated according to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, 3rd Ed., Rev. (DSM-III-R). The mean FTND scores+/-SD of the group with nicotine dependence and the group without nicotine dependence were 6.85+/-2.00 and 3.70+/-2.13 respectively, and the difference was significant (P&lt;0.001, Mann-Whitney's U-test). The test-retest correlation was 0.75. Cronbach's alpha of the FTND was 0.66. The FTND score correlated significantly with the number of satisfied criteria of nicotine dependence (r=0.70; P&lt;0.001, Pearson's correlation). By using a receiver-operating-characteristic curve, we determined a score of 5/6 as a suitable cut-off point for nicotine dependence; this point gave high sensitivity and specificity (0.75 and 0.80, respectively). These results suggest that our Japanese version of FTND is a reliable and valid measure of nicotine dependence in patients with smoking-related cancers.
Morphologic examinations of mammary neoplasias arising in BALB/c (H-2d) mice carrying the activated rat HER-2/neu oncogene (BALB-NeuT), and in FVB (H-2q) mice bearing the wild-type proto-oncogene (FVB-NeuN), indicate that both conditions result in a very human-like lobular carcinoma of alveolar type, whose histotype is the result of the preferential expression of HER-2/neu products in the epithelium of lobular ducts and lobules. Detailed analysis of tumor progression indicates that transition from lobular hyperplasia to overt carcinoma is associated with a high epithelial proliferation rate, as assessed by anti-proliferating cell nuclear antigen immunostaining, and coincides with the activation and maximal extension of tumor angiogenic process as assessed by microvessel count (anti-CD31), anti-beta3 integrin, and anti-laminin immunostaining. Neovascularization is accompanied by vascular endothelial cell growth factor and basic fibroblast growth factor production by hyperplastic epithelial cells. By contrast with the BALB-NeuT tumors, E-cadherin expression is almost nonexistent in those arising in FVB-NeuN mice and this may explain their high metastatic potential. Despite their different kinetics, however, the lung metastases observed in both strains are histologically similar and resemble the primary tumor. Both strains can thus be proposed as models for &quot;in vivo&quot; investigation of the origin and progression of the alveolar type of lobular mammary carcinoma and the testing of new therapeutic approaches.
Analyses of the data from 212 boys and girls, aged 7-14 years, demonstrated a relatively abrupt and permanent decrease in the numbers of errors for dichotic (left ear) word listening and for toe gnosis after the ninth year. This pattern was not observed for right ear errors, finger gnosis, or indices of finger and foot agility. The results are compatible with the hypothesis that the final differentiation of the paracentral lobules and adjacent corpus callosum by the most distal portions of the Anterior Cerebral Artery occurs around 9 or 10 years of age. Implications for the development of the sense of self, enhanced apprehension, and &quot;the sense of a presence&quot; are discussed.
T1-weighted images of the human brain obtained with the MDEFT sequence at 8 T are presented. These images are characterized by an excellent contrast and good signal to noise ratio. Importantly, results were obtained with adiabatic spin inversion and demonstrate that such pulses can be used even in the ultra high frequency (&gt; 300 MHz) range. It is thus possible to obtain high quality results at this field strength without violating SAR guidelines.
Previous studies have addressed the issue of the usefullness of fast fluid-attenuated (fast-FLAIR), rapid acquisition relaxation-enhanced (RARE), and gradient spin echo (GRASE) sequences in small groups of patients with multiple sclerosis (MS). The aim of this study was to assess and compare the lesion volumes and the intra-rater reproducibility of such measurements using fast-FLAIR, dual echo RARE, and dual echo GRASE brain scans from a large sample of MS patients. Using a 1.5 Tesla scanner, fast-FLAIR, dual echo RARE, and dual echo GRASE scans (24 axial, 5-mm thick contiguous interleaved slices) of the brain were obtained from 50 MS patients. Total lesion loads (TLL) were assessed twice using a semi-automated local thresholding segmentation technique by the same rater from the scans obtained with the three techniques. Mean TLL were 20.3 mL for fast-FLAIR, 16.6 mL for RARE, and 17.6 mL for GRASE sequences. Mean TLL detected by the three techniques were significantly heterogeneous (p &lt; 0.001); at post-hoc analysis, the mean lesion volume detected on fast-FLAIR images was significantly higher than that on both RARE and GRASE images (p &lt; 0.001) and the mean TLL on GRASE scans was significantly higher than that on RARE scans (p = 0.001). The mean values of intra-observer coefficient of variation for TLL measurements were similar for the three techniques (2.69% for fast-FLAIR, 2.33% for RARE, and 2.65% for GRASE). Our results confirm that fast-FLAIR sequences detect higher lesion volumes than those detected by other magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) sequences with shorter acquisition times. However, the reproducibility of TLL measurements is comparable among fast-FLAIR, RARE, and GRASE. This suggests that when assessing MS disease burden with MRI, the choice of the pulse sequence to be used should be dictated by the clinical setting.
Today, most studies of cognitive processes using functional MRI (fMRI) experiments adopt a single-trial design. Highly flexible stimulation paradigms require new statistical models in which not only the activation amount but also the time course of the measured hemodynamic response is analyzed. Most previous approaches have been based on a linear regression context and have introduced hemodynamic model functions to improve the signal detection. In this report a nonlinear regression context is derived, from which shape parameters for the hemodynamic response are obtained per trial and per region of interest. These parameters allow the investigation of stimulus-induced shape variations of the hemodynamic response. By embedding the estimation into a robust statistical framework and rigorously analyzing the spatiotemporal interactions in the fMRI data, it is possible to derive statistically valid descriptions of single hemodynamic responses. The model, estimation algorithm, validation, and an example analysis from a single-trial fMRI study are reported. Magn Reson Med 42:787-797, 1999.
Since its inception, functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has seen rapid progress in the application to neuroscience. Common gradient-recalled acquisition methods are susceptible to static field inhomogeneities, resulting in signal loss at the medial temporal area important for memory function or at the basal ganglia area for motor control. In addition, they are susceptible to the contaminating signals of large vein origin, such as the signals from its surrounding cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) leading to false-positive activation. Spin echoes overcome these drawbacks. However, they are less sensitive to blood oxygenation level dependent (BOLD) susceptibility changes because of their refocusing mechanism. A method is presented here to enhance the spin-echo fMRI signal by recruiting more spins to participate in the dynamic BOLD process. This method divided a conventional T(2) weighting period into several segments separated by blocks of extra free diffusion time. Before the extra diffusion time spins are restored to the longitudinal axis preventing rapid transverse relaxation. This process allows more spin access to the regions that experience the BOLD field gradient. Because of the increased spin population that is modulated by the capillary BOLD field gradient, the functional signal is increased. Spin-echo echo-planar imaging (EPI) with this enhancement may be a useful technique for fMRI studies at inhomogeneous areas such as the air/tissue interface. Magn Reson Med 42:631-635, 1999.


The control of yellow fever, malaria, and other tropical diseases was essential for the successful completion of the Panama Canal. COL William C. Gorgas, Chief Sanitary Officer, found Ancon Hospital quite satisfactory as a site from which to direct his sanitation efforts. Ancon Hospital played an important role during the period of the excavation of the canal (1904-1914). In 1928, Ancon Hospital was renamed Gorgas Hospital to commemorate this achievement. After more than a century of clinical and research activities in Panama, Ancon Hospital closed its doors in 1997.
MASH1 is a bHLH transcription factor specifically expressed in the developing nervous system that has an essential role in the formation of multiple neuronal lineages in the peripheral and central nervous systems. Here we demonstrate the requirement for MASH1 for normal development of ventral forebrain structures. MASH1 is expressed at high levels in the ventral telencephalon and specific regions within the ventral diencepharon. In the absence of MASH1, tissue morphology, proliferation, and gene expression within these forebrain regions is disrupted. The decreased incorporation of BrdU in the neuro-epithelium and the enlargement of the ventricles demonstrate a reduction in cell proliferation. A loss of anatomically distinct lateral and medial ganglionic eminences, and a disruption of axons traversing this region, indicate abnormalities in cell-type specification. The aberrant expression of Tuj-1, a marker of neuronal differentiation in the neuroepithelium, and Dlx, a marker of regional cell identity, in the ventricular zone in the MASH1 mutant brains suggest coordination of differentiation events is disrupted. In addition, the involvement of MASH1 in lateral inhibition processes that affect the development of these forebrain regions is implicated. Taken together, an essential role for MASH1 in the coordination of events required for correct cell-type specification and timing of differentiation during neural development in ventral forebrain regions is demonstrated.


Heme oxygenase (HO) is believed to be a potent antioxidant enzyme in the nervous system; it degrades heme from heme-containing proteins, giving rise to carbon monoxide, iron, and biliverdin, which is rapidly reduced to bilirubin. The first identified isoform of the enzyme, HO1, is an inducible heat-shock protein expressed in high levels in peripheral organs and barely detectable under normal conditions in the brain, whereas HO2 is constitutive and most highly concentrated in the brain. Interestingly, although HO2 is constitutively expressed, its activity can be modulated by phosphorylation. We demonstrated that bilirubin, formed from HO2, is neuroprotectant, as neurotoxicity is augmented in neuronal cultures from mice with targeted deletion of HO2 (HO2(-/-)) and reversed by low concentrations of bilirubin. We now show that neural damage following middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) and reperfusion, a model of focal ischemia of vascular stroke, is substantially worsened in HO2(-/-) animals. By contrast, stroke damage is not significantly altered in HO1(-/-) mice, despite their greater debility. Neural damage following intracranial injections of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) is also accentuated in HO2(-/-) animals. These findings establish HO2 as an endogenous neuroprotective system in the brain whose pharmacologic manipulation may have therapeutic relevance.
The epidermal growth factor (EGF) family of polypeptides is regulators for tissue development and repair, and is characterized by the fact that their mature forms are proteolytically derived from their integral membrane precursors. This article reviews roles of the prominent members of the EGF family (EGF, transforming growth factor-alpha [TGF-alpha] and heparin-binding EGF [HB-EGF]) and the related neuregulin family in the nerve system. These polypeptides, produced by neurons and glial cells, play an important role in the development of the nervous system, stimulating proliferation, migration, and differentiation of neuronal, glial, and Schwann precursor cells. These peptides are also neurotrophic, enhancing survival and inhibiting apoptosis of post-mitotic neurons, probably acting directly through receptors on neurons, or indirectly via stimulating glial proliferation and glial synthesis of other molecules such as neurotrophic factors. TGF-alpha, EGF, and neuregulins are involved in mediating glial-neuronal and axonal-glial interactions, regulating nerve injury responses, and participating in injury-associated astrocytic gliosis, brain tumors, and other disorders of the nerve system. Although the collective roles of the EGF family (as well as those of the neuregulins) are shown to be essential for the nervous system, redundancy may exist among members of the EGF family.
Several lines of evidence indicate that Alzheimer's disease (AD) has systemic expression. Systemic changes are manifested as alterations in a number of molecular and cellular processes. Although, these alterations appear to have little or no consequence in peripheral systems, their parallel expression in the central nervous system (CNS) could account for the principal clinical manifestations of the disease. Recent research seems to indicate that alterations in ion channels, calcium homeostasis, and protein kinase C (PKC) can be linked and thereby constitute a model of pathophysiological relevance. Considering the difficulties of studying dynamic pathophysiological processes in the disease-ridden postmortem AD brain, peripheral tissues such as fibroblasts provide a suitable model to study molecular and cellular aspects of the disease.


Nitric oxide (NO) has been implicated in the immunopathogenesis of MS as a potential mediator of neuronal loss. To investigate the role of.NO in the development of progressive disease we measured the NO metabolites (nitrate and nitrite) and neopterin, in the urine of 129 patients with demyelinating disease (DD): 23 with clinically isolated syndromes compatible with demyelination and in 46 relapsing remitting (RR) and 60 patients with progressive MS. Eighty-nine of these 129 patients underwent Gd-enhanced MRI. In addition 58 normal control subjects (NC), 19 AIDS and 35 rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients were studied. Patients with DD, AIDS and RA had significantly elevated urinary nitrate plus nitrite (nit : creat. urine) and neopterin (neopt : creat.urine) to creatinine ratios compared to NC subjects. (Median[25th - 75th%] nit : creat.urine: NC=1183[962 - 1365] vs DD=1245[875 - 2403], AIDS=1686[1231 - 2531], and RA=1950[1214 - 2726] mumol/mol, P&lt;0.001 and median[25th - 75th%] neopt : creat.urine: NC=99[76 - 151] vs DD=163[119 - 266], AIDS=972[653 - 1456], and RA=389[257 - 623] mu mol/mol, P&lt;0.001). Patients with early DD and RR MS had significantly elevated nit : creat.urine compared to patients with progressive MS (nit : creat. urine: 1612[1020 - 2733] vs 1159[790 - 1641] mu mol/mol, P=0.006). The nit : creat.urine and neopt : creat.urine did not correlate with clinical relapse or MRI activity. Excretion of.NO metabolites is increased in patients with early or relapsing-remitting disease.NO appears to be a double-edged sword, mediating tissue damage and modulating complex immunological functions which may be protective in MS.
Multiple Sclerosis (MS), a disease of the human central nervous system, is believed to be a T cell mediated autoimmune disorder with genetic and environmental influences. Interleukin-12 (IL-12), a proinflammatory cytokine produced primarily by antigen presenting cells is a potent inducer of interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) and other Th1 cytokines that may play an important role in MS pathogenesis. We have investigated IL-12 production induced by the T cell independent pathway in untreated and IFN-beta treated MS patients, healthy individuals and other neurological disease (OND) patients in response to the human pathogen Staphylococcus aureus. We report that peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) from untreated MS patients produce normal amounts of the biologically active IL-12 p70 heterodimer but significantly less free IL-12 p40 heavy chain than PBMC from both healthy and disease controls when challenged in vitro with Staphylococcus aureus. Both mRNA expression of the inducible IL-12 p40 chain and protein levels were found to be reduced in untreated MS patients. No decrease in the production of the IL-12 p40 was seen in MS patients on IFN-beta therapy. The decreased production of IL-12 p40 heavy chain is not attributed to increased IL-10 secretion, a defect in the production of cytokines by macrophages or the number of cytokine producing cells. The factor(s) responsible for the decrease in p40 remain to be determined. Since IL-12 p40 antagonizes the biological activity of IL-12 in vitro and in vivo, identification of a defect in the 'natural' antagonist of IL-12, may provide the basis for immune therapy.
We report the clinical, serological, and neurophysiological findings in seven patients with foodborne botulism caused by ingestion of black olives in water. The clinical picture was characterized by mild symptoms with a long latency of onset and by involvement of cranial and upper limb muscles; only one patient, a child, developed respiratory failure. Spores of Clostridium botulinum were found in stools in some but not all cases. Conventional neurophysiological tests had low sensitivity; abnormal findings were present only in the patient with severe clinical involvement, in whom compound muscle action potentials (CMAPs) appeared reduced. Repetitive nerve stimulation at a high rate showed pseudofacilitation and not true posttetanic facilitation, but single-fiber electromyography (SFEMG) showed abnormalities of neuromuscular transmission in every case. Neurophysiological evaluation, particularly SFEMG, is important because it allows rapid identification of abnormal neuromuscular transmission while bioassay studies are in progress.
Caveolin-1 is a protein component (of relative molecular mass 22, 000) of the striated coat that decorates the cytoplasmic surface of caveolae membranes. Previous biochemical and molecular tests have indicated that caveolin-1 is an integral membrane protein that is co-translationally inserted into endoplasmic-reticulum membranes of fibroblast and epithelial cells such that its carboxy- and amino-terminal ends are in the cytoplasm. Here we identify caveolin-1 in the secretory pathway of exocrine cells. Secretion of caveolin-1 from pancreatic acinar cells and a transfected exocrine cell line, but not from Chinese hamster ovary cells, is stimulated by the secretagogues secretin, cholecystokinin and dexamethasone. The secreted caveolin-1 co-fractionates with apolipoproteins, indicating that it may be secreted in a complex with lipids.
Huntington disease (HD) is a genetically dominant condition caused by expanded CAG repeats coding for glutamine in the HD gene product huntingtin. Although HD symptoms reflect preferential neuronal death in specific brain regions, huntingtin is expressed in almost all tissues, so abnormalities outside the brain might be expected. Although involvement of nuclei and mitochondria in HD pathophysiology has been suggested, specific intracellular defects that might elicit cell death have been unclear. Mitochondria dysfunction is reported in HD brains; mitochondria are organelles that regulates apoptotic cell death. We now report that lymphoblasts derived from HD patients showed increased stress-induced apoptotic cell death associated with caspase-3 activation. When subjected to stress, HD lymphoblasts also manifested a considerable increase in mitochondrial depolarization correlated with increased glutamine repeats.

Studies of patients and animals with brain lesions have implicated the hippocampal formation in spatial, declarative/relational and episodic types of memory. These and other types of memory consist of a series of interdependent but potentially dissociable memory processes-encoding, storage, consolidation and retrieval. To identify whether hippocampal activity contributes to these processes independently, we used a novel method of inactivating synaptic transmission using a water-soluble antagonist of AMPA/kainate glutamate receptors. Once calibrated using electrophysiological and two-deoxyglucose techniques in vivo, drug or vehicle was infused chronically or acutely into the dorsal hippocampus of rats at appropriate times during or after training in a water maze. Our findings indicate that hippocampal neural activity is necessary for both encoding and retrieval of spatial memory and for either trace consolidation or long-term storage.
Dendrites of CA1 pyramidal neurons in mature rat hippocampal slices were exposed to different levels of synaptic activation. In some slices, synaptic transmission was blocked with glutamate receptor antagonists, sodium and calcium channel blockers and/or a nominally calcium-free medium with high magnesium. In other slices, synapses were activated with low-frequency control stimulation or repeated tetanic stimulation. In slices with blocked synaptic transmission, dendrites were spinier than in either of the activated states. Thus, mature neurons can increase their numbers of spines, possibly compensating for lost synaptic activity.
By simultaneously recording from retinal ganglion cells while stimulating a single cone, Chichilnisky and Baylor demonstrate that the strength of physiological connections within a retinal microcircuit is linearly proportional to the number of anatomically defined synapses.

The olfactory system is capable of detecting odorants at very low concentrations. Physiological experiments have demonstrated odorant sensitivities down to the picomolar range in preparations from the sensory epithelium. However, the contemporary model for olfactory signal transduction provides that odorants bind to olfactory receptors with relatively low specificity and consequently low affinity, making this detection of low-concentration odorants theoretically difficult to understand. We employ a computational model to demonstrate how olfactory sensory neuron (OSN) sensitivity can be tuned by modulation of receptor-effector coupling and/or by other mechanisms regulating spare receptor capacity, thus resolving this conundrum. The EC10-90 intensity tuning ranges (ITRs) of whole olfactory glomeruli and postsynaptic mitral cells are considerably broader than the commensurate ITRs of individual OSNs. These data are difficult to reconcile with certain contemporary hypotheses that convergent OSNs in mammals exhibit a homogeneous population of olfactory receptors and identical tuning for odor stimuli. We show that heterogeneity in spare receptor capacities within a convergent OSN population can increase the ITR (EC10-90) of a convergent population of OSNs regardless of the presence or absence of a diversity of receptor expression within the population. The modulation of receptor-effector coupling has been observed in OSNs; other mechanisms for cellular regulation of spare receptor capacity are also highly plausible (e.g., quantitative regulation of the relative expression levels of receptor and effector proteins). We present a model illustrating that these processes can underlie both how OSNs come to exhibit high sensitivity to odorant stimuli without necessitating increased ligand-receptor binding affinities or specificities and how a population of convergent OSNs could exhibit a broader concentration sensitivity than its individual constituent neurons, even given a population expressing identical odorant receptors. The regulation of spare receptor capacity may play an important role in the olfactory system's ability to reliably detect low odor concentrations, discriminate odor intensities, and segregate this intensity information from representations of odor quality.
Scrapie is a transmissible spongiform encephalopathy, or &quot;prion disease.&quot; We investigated the effects of intracerebral Sc237 scrapie inoculation in hamsters on the physiology and morphology of principal cells from neocortical and hippocampal slices. Scrapie inoculation resulted in increased branching of basal dendrites of hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cells (Sholl analysis), reduced amplitudes of medium and late afterhyperpolarizations (AHPs) in CA1 pyramidal cells and layer V neocortical cells, loss of frequency potentiation of depolarizing afterpotentials (DAPs), and double action potentials in synaptically evoked CA1 pyramidal cell responses. Postsynaptic double action potentials could also be evoked in normal hamster CA1 pyramidal cells by acute pharmacological block of AHPs, suggesting that the depressed AHPs in scrapie-infected hamsters caused the action potential doublets. Both the AHP and the DAP potentiations depend on increased intracellular calcium, which suggests that the underlying deficit, in hamsters infected with Sc237 scrapie, may lie in calcium entry and/or homeostasis. Fast IPSPs, passive membrane properties, and density of dendritic spines remained unchanged. These last two results differ markedly from recent studies on mice infected with ME7 scrapie, indicating diversity of pathophysiology in this group of diseases, perhaps associated with the progressive and substantial neuronal loss found in the ME7, and not the Sc237, model.
The effect of chronic administration (0.4% for 30 days) of lithium carbonate (Li2CO3) on 5-HT1 receptor-linked second messenger system was studied in regions of rat brain. We observed that chronic treatment of Li2CO3, significantly decreased the density of [3H]5-HT binding sites in cortex (62%), hippocampus (64%) and striatum (65%), compared to the control levels. The affinity of [3H]5-HT to 5-HT1 binding sites was significantly decreased in all the regions. A significant decrease in the density of high affinity 5-HT1A receptor sites was observed in cortex (81%) and hippocampus (42%), without change in the affinity of [3H]8-OH-DPAT for 5-HT1A sites in these regions. 5-HT-stimulated, but not basal, adenylyl cyclase activity was significantly increased in all the regions after Li treatment. The present study concludes that the increase in the 5-HT-stimulated adenylyl cyclase activity might be attributed to the functional downregulation of 5-HT1 receptors, as these are negatively coupled to adenylyl cyclase, suggesting the involvement of 5-HT1 receptor mediated response in the therapeutic efficacy of lithium.
There is a growing body of evidence to suggest that peripheral-type benzodiazepine receptors (PTBRs) and their endogenous ligands are implicated in the pathogenesis of end-organ failure in chronic liver disease. Portal-systemic encephalopathy, a major neuropsychiatric complication associated with chronic liver disease, results in activation of brain PTBR and probably in peripheral organs. In order to address these issues, PTBR mRNA was measured using semi-quantitative RT-PCR in extracts of cerebral cortex, kidney and testis of rats four weeks after end-to-side portacaval anastomosis and sham-operation (controls). Densities of PTBR sites were measured concomitantly by in vitro receptor binding using the selective PTBR ligand [3H]PK11195. Portacaval shunting resulted in a 2 to 3-fold increase in expression of PTBR in brain and kidney and a 37% reduction in expression in testis. Densities of [3H]PK11195 sites changed in parallel with the alterations of gene expression. These findings suggest that selective alterations of PTBR expression are implicated in the pathogenesis of peripheral tissue hypertrophy (kidney) and/or atrophy (testis) which accompanies portal-systemic shunting in chronic liver failure. In brain, activation of PTBR could result in an increase in the production of neurosteroids with potent inhibitory action in the CNS, which could contribute to the pathogenesis of portal-systemic encephalopathy.
A localized acute phase response occurs in the brain in Alzheimer's disease. Acute phase proteins have previously been measured in brain homogenates to quantify this response. The extent to which measurements of these proteins reflect brain parenchymal contents, as opposed to vascular contents, is unknown. In this study, the acute phase proteins ceruloplasmin (CP), complement factor 3 (C3), haptoglobin (HP), and albumin were measured in regional brain homogenates from phosphate buffered saline-perfused and sham-perfused rats (n = 7-9/group). Interleukin 1-beta (IL1-beta) and copper were also measured. Mean CP, C3, HP, and albumin concentrations in perfused specimens decreased by 94%, 88%, 90%, and 81% vs. sham-perfused specimens (all p &lt; 0.001), while IL1-beta and copper were unchanged. These results suggest that acute phase protein measurements in brain homogenates reflect primarily vascular contents. However, IL1-beta and copper concentrations in brain homogenates are minimally influenced by vascular contents.
Sympathetic system activation is considered one of the main factors influencing lactate production during exercise in normal individuals. In order to assess the role of such activation in mitochondrial myopathies, we compared blood catecholamine levels to those of lactate during an intermittent exercise performed at workloads near anaerobic lactate threshold. Following an initial increment, the patients (n = 10) exhibited a steady-state blood lactate shifted right relative to controls (n = 7), the peaks being respectively 665 +/- 29% and 322 +/- 11% of baseline. Plasma catecholamine increase in mitochondrial myopathies was 272 +/- 21% for norepinephrine and 261 +/- 18% for epinephrine, not statistically different from controls. Lactate/norepinephrine and lactate/epinephrine area ratios were significantly higher in the subjects than in controls (2.36 versus 1.48 and 2.40 versus 1.57, respectively). The study shows that the abnormal lactate production in mitochondrial myopathies is independent of the catecholaminergic response at the transition from aerobic to anaerobic exercise.
The survival motor neuron (SMN) gene is present in two copies on chromosome 5q13 and the evidence is now compelling that mutations in the telomeric copy (SMNt) of the gene underlie childhood onset proximal spinal muscular atrophy (SMA). There is a correlation between the number of centromeric SMN gene copies (SMNc) and the clinical severity of the disease but this relationship is not absolute. Allelic variants of the apolipoprotein E (APOE) gene encoded on chromosome 19q are known to influence the prognosis and risk in a number of neurological disorders. We have therefore genotyped 166 unrelated cases of SMA to determine whether the presence of specific APOE genotypes correlates with severity of disease. The study failed to show the influence of any particular APOE genotype on disease severity, with specifically APOE epsilon4 being no more common in the milder SMA forms and APOE epsilon2 not over represented in type I SMA. A limited study of 23 SMA families also failed to show any influence of APOE genotype on SMA disease severity. Factors other than APOE genotype must therefore be responsible for determining SMA disease severity.
Recent evidence indicates that the NO-related species, nitroxyl anion (NO), is produced in physiological systems by several redox metal-containing proteins, including hemoglobin, nitric oxide synthase (NOS), superoxide dismutase, and S-nitrosothiols (SNOs), which have recently been identified in brain. However, the chemical biology of NO- remains largely unknown. Here, we show that NO- -unlike NO*, but reminiscent of NO+ transfer (or S-nitrosylation)- -reacts mainly with Cys-399 in the NR2A subunit of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor to curtail excessive Ca2+ influx and thus provide neuroprotection from excitotoxic insults. This effect of NO- closely resembles that of NOS, which also downregulates NMDA receptor activity under similar conditions in culture.
Behavioral and neuroendocrine responses underlying systemic osmoregulation are under the concerted control of centrally located osmoreceptors and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) Na+ concentration ([Na+]) detectors. Although the process underlying osmoreception is understood, the mechanism by which [Na+] is detected and integrated with cellular information derived from osmoreceptors is unknown. Here, we show that shifts in extracellular [Na+] ([Na+]0) cause proportional changes in the relative Na+ permeability of mechanosensitive cation channels responsible for signal transduction in the osmosensory neurons of the supraoptic nucleus. This effect causes the generation of Na+ specific receptor potentials under isotonic conditions and modulates osmoreceptor potentials and electrical responsiveness during osmotic perturbation. These results provide a cellular basis for Na+-sensing and for the coordinated detection of CSF [Na+] and osmolality in central osmoregulatory neurons.
Apoptotic bodies are frequently found in oligodendrogliomas, particularly in the anaplastic subtype. A range of proteins, such as those of the Bcl family, are implicated in the control of apoptosis. The ratio of antagonists of apoptosis, such as Bcl-2, to agonists, such as Bax, is thought to determine the outcome for a particular cell. This study aimed to determine the expression of Bcl-2 and Bax proteins in a series of oligodendrogliomas and to relate the expression of these to measures of apoptosis. Immunohistochemistry was used to detect the expression of Bcl-2 and Bax in an archival series of 32 oligodendrogliomas. The results were scored semiquantitatively for the extent and intensity of tumour staining. Apoptosis indices were determined by counting apoptotic bodies on haematoxylin and eosin staining and the percentage of cells showing a positive reaction with the TdT-mediated dUTP-biotin nick end-labelling technique (TUNEL). Granular cytoplasmic staining for Bcl-2 was seen in tumour cells in 81% of cases. Cases with a strong intensity (but not extent) of staining showed a lower TUNEL index (P=0.038). Bcl-2 expression was identified in the walls of intratumoural blood vessels in 55% of cases and in peri-tumoural neurones (where present) in 87%. Bax expression was detected in tumour cells in 69% of cases but no relationship to TI was detected. Bax positivity was seen in blood vessels in 44% of cases and peri-tumoural neurones in 60%. Bcl-2 and Bax were concluded to be expressed in a high proportion of oligodendrogliomas, suggesting that they may exert a regulatory role in cell death in these tumours.
Evidence that CCK participates in the control of meal size is compelling, but the avenues by which CCK may affect daily food intake and body weight regulation are still uncertain. Although participation of brain CCK in control of food intake is acknowledged, our focus here is on participation of peripheral CCK in the control of food intake. Therefore, in this article we (1) review evidence for CCK's participation in control of meal size, (2) document involvement of CCK-A receptors located on vagal sensory neurons in control of food intake by exogenous and endogenous CCK, (3) point out apparent discrepancies in the experimental record, which auger for non-endocrine sources of CCK and non-vagal sites of CCK action, and (4) summarize recent observations, suggesting mechanisms by which CCK could participate in the control of daily food intake and body weight regulation.
The 36-amino-acid peptide, neuropeptide Y (NPY), is the most abundant peptide in the rat brain. When administered into the brain, NPY produces a variety of physiological actions including a pronounced stimulation of feeding in satiated rats. Elevations in hypothalamic NPY have been reported after food deprivation and in genetically obese rodents. NPY is believed to produce its actions through a portfolio of G-protein coupled receptors, Y1, Y2, Y4 and Y5. Studies using peptide analogs, receptor knockout animals and specific receptor antagonists suggest the Y1 and Y5 receptors are important in mediating the effects of NPY on food intake in rats. Development of specific receptor antagonists with improved pharmacokinetic properties will be required to determine the importance of NPY in human obesity and appetite disorders.
Metabotropic glutamate (mGlu) receptors are a family of eight known subtypes termed mGlu1-8. Currently, few ligands are available to study the pharmacology of mGlu receptor subtypes. In functional assays, we previously described LY341495 as a highly potent and selective mGlu2 and mGlu3 receptor antagonist. In this study, radiolabeled [3H]-LY341495 was used to investigate the characteristics of receptor binding to membranes from cells expressing human mGlu receptor subtypes. Using membranes from cells expressing human mGlu2 and mGlu3 receptors, [3H]-LY341495 (1 nM) specific binding was &gt; 90% of total binding. At an approximate K(D) concentration for [3H]-LY341495 binding to human mGlu2 and mGlu3 receptors (1 nM), no appreciable specific binding of [3H-]LY341495 was found in membranes of cells expressing human mGlu1a, mGlu5a, mGlu4a, mGlu6, or mGlu7a receptors. However, modest (approximately 20% of mGlu2/3) specific [3H]-LY341495 (1 nM) binding was observed in human mGlu8 expressing cells. [3H]-LY341495 bound to membranes expressing human mGlu2 and mGlu3 receptors in a reversible and saturable manner with relatively high affinities (Bmax 20.5 +/- 5.4 and 32.0 +/- 7.0 pmol/mg protein; and K(D) = 1.67 +/- 0.20 and 0.75 +/- 0.43 nM, respectively). The pharmacology of [3H]-LY341495 binding in mGlu2 and mGlu3 expressing cells was consistent with that previously described for LY341495 in functional assays. [3H]-LY341495 binding provides a useful way to further investigate regulation of receptor expression and pharmacological properties of mGlu2 and mGlu3 receptor subtypes in recombinant systems.
This article covers the stages of the development of electromyography in France, since the founding works of Lerique [4], the first publications of the &quot;Socit d'EEG et des sciences connexes de langue franaise&quot; (1948), the first international meeting (Strasbourg, 1960), the French-speaking meeting on electromyography which is now being held every other year. It also deals with the difficulties of registering and interpreting the first recordings and the considerable help brought by the improvement in electronics and computer sciences.

Motor control deficits in signers with Parkinson's disease (PD) were examined through analysis of their production of American Sign Language (ASL) fingerspelling, which is sequential and rapid motor behavior that has theoretical models of its underlying structure. Free conversation of two Deaf signers with PD and two Deaf control signers was analysed. In addition, scripted productions of one control signer were also analysed and directly compared to the same productions by the signers with PD. A featural analysis of ASL fingerspelling and a frame-by-frame analysis of multiple articulator movements were used to examine the fingerspelled productions. On the basis of the featural analysis, the signers with PD showed a variety of error patterns, all of which reflected attempts to reduce the motoric demands of coarticulation and thereby facilitate ease of articulation. Signers with PD either held individual segments in a fingerspelling sequence for a long time (segmentation), blended adjacent segments into a single segment (sequential blending), or broke handshapes down sequentially into their component features (featural unraveling). The results of both the featural analysis and the frame-by-frame analysis show that the PD signers have difficulty co-ordinating the movements of independent articulators in complex sequences. For example, the movements of independent articulators for fingerspelling (the thumb, fingers, and wrist) were markedly farther apart in time and more variable for the signers with PD. In addition, the signers with PD used fewer wrist movements while fingerspelling. Such deficits are consistent with claims that patients with PD are impaired in their ability to use ongoing sensorimotor information to program multi-articulator movements.
The present study compares the effects of two alpha 2-adrenoceptor agonists, clonidine (0.5, 2, and 5 micrograms/kg, p.o.), and guanfacine (7 and 29 micrograms/kg, p.o.), in young healthy volunteers on attentional performance. A placebo-controlled double-blind cross-over design (one drug dose/group) was employed. Neither of the drugs affected measures of motor performance or performance at easy levels in an attentional test. However, at the most difficult level in the attentional test, the highest dose of clonidine (5 micrograms/kg), but not guanfacine, decreased the number of correct responses and increased reaction latency. Clonidine 5 and guanfacine 29 micrograms/kg equally increased subjective feelings of sedation and reduced systolic and diastolic blood pressures. Thus, the effects of the drugs on attentional performance could be dissociated from their sedative effects. The results demonstrate that clonidine, but not guanfacine, disrupts performance in an attentional task requiring effortful processing, while leaving performance intact in tests requiring more automatic processing. The lower alpha 2A-vs. alpha 2C-adrenoceptor selectivity ratio of clonidine and the affinity for alpha 1-adrenoceptors of clonidine may be responsible for the different action of these drugs on attention.
The neuropeptide galanin is expressed in brain structures implicated in regulation of emotionality. The amygdala is known to play a central role in mechanisms of fear and anxiety. We therefore examined the effects of galanin (0.2 and 0.6 nmol/side) on experimental anxiety upon microinjection into the amygdala. Two established animal models of anxiety were used: a punished drinking test, and the elevated plus-maze. Punished responding was dose dependently suppressed by intra-amygdala galanin, whereas unpunished responding, drinking motivation, locomotor activity, and shock thresholds were unaffected. No effects on experimental anxiety were seen in the plus-maze following galanin injection. When injected into parietal cortex, no anxiety promoting properties of galanin were detected. These data suggest that activation of galanin receptors in amygdala modulates neurotransmission involved in fear and experimental anxiety.
We report in this study with a pre-embedding immunogold method, the clustering of the group III metabotropic glutamate receptor 4a (mGluR4a) along the presynaptic membrane of parallel fiber synaptic terminals in the cerebellar molecular layer. The mGluR4a clusters were homogeneously distributed and interspaced by about 60 nm. These results suggest a particular arrangement of mGluR4a which might help to a rapid and effective activation of this receptor by glutamate.
Historically, neurosurgery has improved the environment of the nervous system to promote maximal spontaneous recovery of function. The population of patients whom we treat at present is a small portion of those who suffer from disabling neurological illnesses. Based on a combination of new technology, and advances in neuroscience, restorative neurosurgery is advancing the frontiers of our specialty, and providing the potential to restore lost function. Significant advancements in gene therapy, the discovery and delivery of neurotrophic factors, and cell transplantation now require neurosurgeons to broaden the scope of our practice so that it includes the restoration of function in an enormous number of patients with acquired, degenerative and idiopathic neurological diseases. In order to meet the present challenge, neurosurgeons must broaden our vision, our role, and our future educational goals. In this review, we summarize the landmark advances in the basic and clinical neurosciences and the results of clinical trials that are driving our evolution from passive reaction to disease to active attempts to restore lost central nervous system function.
Acute high dose administration of the artemisinin antimalarial, beta-arteether (AE), was evaluated in rats using an auditory discrimination task (ADT) and histology. After rats were trained on the ADT, AE (25, 75, 125 mg/kg, i.m.) or vehicle (sesame oil) was administered and behavioral performance was evaluated for 11 consecutive days. Histological evaluation of the brains was performed using thionine and cupric-silver staining. Damaged cells were counted in specific brainstem nuclei of all rats and a qualitative analysis of the rostral-caudal extent of selected brains was performed. Behavioral performance was not significantly affected by any treatment although some evidence of disruption was observed, particularly after the largest dose. At 125 mg/kg, AE produced statistically significant neuropathology, including chromatolysis, in the nucleus trapezoideus and nucleus superior olive. AE at 75 mg/kg, produced significant neuropathology in the nucleus trapezoideus. Neither AE at 25 mg/kg, nor vehicle produced damage. Qualitative analysis revealed a pattern of neuropathology focused in the brainstem. The results show that, in rats, a single dose of AE can produce a pattern of brainstem neuropathology and that specific brainstem nuclei, including auditory nuclei, are particularly vulnerable. These results are consistent with, and extend, previous studies demonstrating brainstem neurotoxicity from repeated AE administration. Moreover, early detection of AE-induced neuropathology is problematic and may require selective examination of brainstem functions.
Treatment of metastatic tumors with ionic platinum compounds is hampered by the potent nephrotoxic, ototoxic and neurotoxic properties of these drugs. Recent studies have shown that sulfur-containing antioxidants relieve the dose limiting side effects of cis-diamminedichloroplatinum (CDDP), the most commonly used ionic platinum therapy. Here we report that both isomers of the sulfur-containing antioxidant methionine (MET) completely block the in vivo ototoxic and nephrotoxic effects of CDDP, and the duration of MET otoprotection is longer than has been previously reported. Rats treated with either L- or D-MET in addition to CDDP exhibited no signs of auditory system damage after 7 days, as evaluated by the auditory brainstem response and scanning electron microscopic examination of the organ of Corti, while CDDP-treated rats exhibited pronounced evidence of ototoxic damage after only 3 days. Microscopic examination of kidney tissue revealed moderate to severe nephrotoxic damage to CDDP-treated rats after 5 days, while rats co-treated with either MET isomer showed no evidence of kidney damage. Mortality among CDDP-treated subjects increased steadily over the period of the study, while all of the MET-protected rats survived. Finally, the efficacy of CDDP in the presence of L- or D-MET was evaluated in vitro using cultures of MTLN-3 breast tumor cell lines, and in vivo using implanted MTLN-3 tumors. Both L- and D-MET reduced the ability of CDDP to kill tumor cells in vitro and in vivo, however, our data suggest that a higher proportion of the antineoplastic activity of CDDP is retained in the presence of L- MET.
Astrocytes are becoming increasingly recognized as targets for neurotoxic agents. For neurotoxicologists, as for other neuroscientists, an important concern is how to study astrocytes. In this paper, it is argued that studies of primary astrocyte cultures, while they are convenient as experimental systems and have been of great value to a resurgence of interest in these cell types over the past quarter century, now need to be supplemented to a large degree by studies on preparations where the properties of astrocytes are less likely to deviate from their properties in situ. Different and alternative systems to primary astrocyte cultures are described and critically evaluated in this article.
It is still largely unknown how the complex cortical neural network of the human brain can process information so rapidly. Multichannel evoked potential recordings with millisecond time resolution and spatiotemporal analysis methods now allow us to address this question and to unravel the temporal dynamics of the large-scale neurocognitive networks.
Nitric oxide (NO) acts as a neuronal messenger in both the central and peripheral nervous systems and has been implicated in reproductive physiology and behavior. Pharmacological inhibition of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) with the nonspecific NOS inhibitor, l-N(G)-nitro-Arg-methyl ester (l-NAME), induced deficits in both the number of ovarian rupture sites and the number of oocytes recovered in the oviducts of mice. Female neuronal NOS knockout (nNOS-/-) mice have normal numbers of rupture sites, but reduced numbers of oocytes recovered following systemic injections of gonadotropins, suggesting that NO produced by nNOS accounts, in part, for deficits in ovulatory efficiency observed after l-NAME administration. Additionally, endothelial NOS knockout (eNOS-/-) mice have reduced numbers of ovulated oocytes after superovulation. Because endothelial NOS has been identified in ovarian follicles, and because of the noted reduced breeding efficiency of eNOS-/- mice, the present study sought to determine the role of NO from eNOS in mediating the number of rupture sites present after ovulation. Estrous cycle length and variability were consistently reduced in eNOS-/- females. The number of rupture sites was normal in eNOS-/- mice under natural conditions and after administration of exogenous GnRH. After exogenous gonadotropin administration, eNOS-/- females displayed a significant reduction in the number of ovarian rupture sites. Female eNOS-/- mice also produced fewer pups/litter compared to WT mice. These data suggest that NO from endothelial sources might play a role in mediating rodent ovulation and may be involved in regulation of the timing of the estrous cycle.
This study demonstrated the effectiveness of the implementation of the Acute Care Nurse Practitioner (ACNP) role in the management of patients with seizure disorders in an Epilepsy Monitoring Unit. Findings indicated that the ACNP, functioning in an expanded role in the epilepsy program, can make a substantial contribution to organizational outcomes. This is achieved through patient satisfaction and reduction in the number of laboratory tests performed, hospital length of stay, and overall costs.
The present study examined the involvement of GABA(A) and GABA(B) receptors in the discriminative stimulus effects of gamma-hydroxybutyric acid (GHB). Rats were trained to discriminate either 300 or 700 mg/kg GHB IG from water using a T-maze, food-reinforced drug-discrimination procedure. The direct GABA(B) agonist, baclofen, substituted completely for both training doses of GHB; its potency to substitute for GHB increased moderately as the training dose of GHB was increased. The positive GABA(A) modulator, diazepam, substituted partially for 300 mg/kg GHB, but failed to elicit GHB-appropriate responding in rats trained with the higher GHB dose. Finally, the GABA(B) antagonist, CGP 35348, completely blocked the discriminative stimulus effects of the high training dose of GHB, but only partially antagonized the effects of the low training dose. These results suggest that (a) GHB produces a compound stimulus, and (b) both GABA(B)- and GABA(A)-mediated cues are prominent components of this compound stimulus; the contribution of each component, however, appears to vary as the training dose of GHB is increased.
Areas of neurobiological interest are identified towards which drug discrimination (DD) studies have made important contributions. DD allows ligand actions to be analyzed at the whole organism level, with a neurobiological specificity that is exquisite and often unrivalled. DD analyses have thus been made of a vast array of CNS agents acting on receptors, enzymes, or ion channels, including most drugs of abuse. DD uniquely offers access to the study of subjective drug effects in animals, using a methodology that also is transposable to humans and has generated unprecedented models of pathology (e.g., chronic pain, opiate addiction). Parametric studies of such independent variables as training dose and reinforcement provide refined insights into the dynamic psychophysiological mechanisms of both drug effects and behavior. Three different mechanisms have been identified by which discriminative, and perhaps other behaviors, can come about. DD also is superbly sensitive to small, partial activation of molecular substrates; this has enabled DD analyses to pioneer the unravelling of molecular mechanisms of drug action (attributing, f.ex., LSD's particular subjective effects to an unusual, partial activation of 5-HT, and perhaps other receptors). DD has both oriented and served as a tool to conduct drug discovery research (e.g., pirenperone-risperidone, loperamide). The DD response arguably constitutes a quantal, rather than graded, variable, and as such allows a comprehension of molecular, pharmacological, and behavioral mechanisms that would have been otherwise inaccessible. Perhaps most important are the following further contributions. One is the notion that particular, different levels of receptor activation are associated with qualities of neurobiological actions that also differ and are unique, this notion arguably constituting the most significant addition to affinity and intrinsic activity since the earliest theoretical conceptions of molecular pharmacology. Another contribution consists of studies that render redundant the notion of tolerance and identify fundamental mechanisms of signal transduction; these mechanisms account for apparent tolerance, dependence, addiction, and sensitization, and appear to operate ubiquitously in a bewildering array of biological systems.
Previous attempts to train pigeons and rats to discriminate between the antidepressant fluvoxamine and its vehicle as assessed in a drug discrimination paradigm have been without success. The present experiments were, therefore, designed to assess in a conditioned taste aversion procedure (CTA) whether or not fluvoxamine possesses stimulus properties. Rats were exposed to a conditioned taste aversion (CTA) procedure. In Experiment I, subjects were given 15 mg/kg fluvoxamine p.o. or vehicle after drinking a novel tasting saccharin solution. In Experiment II, a comparison was made between the effects of 15 mg/kg fluvoxamine i.p., 30 mg/kg fluvoxamine i.p., NaCl, and lithium chloride (LiCl). In Experiment III, subjects were treated with either 10 mg/kg fluoxetine i.p., 30 mg/kg fluvoxamine i.p., or LiCl. CTA was observed after treatment with LiCl, but never after treatment with fluvoxamine or fluoxetine, suggesting that fluvoxamine does not have clear stimulus properties, which can serve as a discriminative stimulus in operant procedures. In a crossfamiliarization CTA procedure in mice, however, fluvoxamine elicited a reliable CTA, suggesting that under certain conditions (species, dose?) selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) may lead to certain discriminable effects. It is as yet unclear why SSRIs apparently produce such weak and species or situation-dependent discriminable effects.
Both major depression and depressive symptoms are associated with a high rate of nicotine dependence, and a history of major depression has an adverse impact on smoking cessation. The main objective of this study was to investigate whether continuous ingestion of nicotine affects indices of depressive behavior in the rat. We compared cholinergic- and serotonergic-hypersensitive Flinders Sensitive Line rats (FSL), a genetic animal model of depression, with their control counterparts, Flinders Resistant Line rats (FRL). Female rats of both lines were allowed access to a solution of nicotine bitartrate (100 microg/mL) in tap water for 14 days. Subsequent behavioral testing revealed striking effects of continuous ingestion of nicotine on depressive-like behavior of both lines. FSL and FRL rats that ingested nicotine for 14 days displayed less immobility in the 10-min forced-swim test (an index of depressive-like behavior) relative to the animals of both lines that were not exposed to nicotine or exposed to nicotine for shorter periods of time. This finding indicates that ingested nicotine has antidepressant properties that are independent of the genetic difference between FSL and FRL female rats. Animal studies on nicotine ingestion and withdrawal may become an important source of insights into the comorbidity of depression and nicotine self-administration.
The sense of taste in humans differs substantially from that of rodents, from which a preponderance of gustatory electrophysiology derives. To establish a more appropriate neural model for human gustation, we recorded the activity of single neurons in the primary taste cortex in 11 alert cynomolgus macaques. Taste cells composed 6% of all neurons encountered. Another 24% responded during mouth and jaw movements, and 4% were sensitive to tactile stimulation of the mouth. Smaller numbers responded during olfactory or visual stimulation, or when the monkey extended his tongue. Taste cells could be divided into four statistically independent groups, corresponding to those most responsive to glucose (38%), NaCl (34%), quinine (22%), or HCI (5%). The location of a taste cell did not predict its response profile, i.e., there was no clear topographic organization of taste sensitivity. We established neural thresholds and intensity-response functions to the basic stimuli and determined that-with the exception of HCl, to which the macaque is relatively insensitive-they were similar to those reported by human subjects. We then turned to the coding of taste quality, as inferred in macaques from the patterns of neural activity elicited by each of greater than 100 stimuli. The results proved generally faithful to human reports of the perceived qualities of these same tastants. Finally, an investigation of taste mixtures revealed a degree of mixture suppression and interaction among basic qualities similar to those reported by humans. We conclude that the alert macaque offers a reliable neural model for human gustation.
The consequences of juvenile isolation on adult social behavior were studied in detail using two different analysis methods: frequency, duration, and latency of behavioral elements, and sequential analysis. Rats were either isolated or socially housed during weeks 4 and 5 of age, and after the isolation period housed in pairs with a rat of identical housing condition until the time of testing at 12 weeks of age. Juvenile isolation caused marked effects on the frequency, duration, and latency of various social behavioral elements, whereas the non-social activities such as ambulation, rearing, and self-grooming were hardly affected. Juvenile isolation reduced social exploration, anogenital sniffing, and approach/following and increased the latency to the first occurrence of these social behavioral elements. In contrast, the sequential analysis revealed that the structure of social behavior was barely affected by juvenile isolation. Some transitions were less pronounced in juvenile isolated rats compared to non-isolated rats, but no significant differences were observed in transitions between social elements. Thus, juvenile isolation bisected the time spent on adult social interactions, whereas it did not disrupt the sequential structure of social behavior. The present data suggest that juvenile isolation reduced the motivation for adult social behavior, but when social contact is initiated, a relatively normal social behavioral pattern is displayed.
Melanocytes have not been described in the pituitary of mammals or in the meninges of the rat. In this paper, we report the presence of the cluster of melanocytes in the intermediate lobe of the pituitary and around the median eminence of the hypothalamus forming an 'infundibulo-hypophysial circle', and also describe the characteristics of meningeal melanocytes in Zucker rats. In the leptomeninges, numerous melanocytes were found on the ventrolateral surface of cerebral hemisphere in the area of the middle cerebral artery. Pigment granules were also observed in the surrounding tissue outside the melanocytes as well as incorporated in the cytoplasm of neural and epithelial cells. Electron microscopy revealed that melanosomes in hypophysial and meningeal melanocytes were in different (II-IV) stages of maturity. In the leptomeninges of Zucker rats, HMB-45 immunoreactivity was found in round non-melanosome-containing cells, while no HMB-45 reaction was found in the leptomeninges of the albino rat. We conclude that both obese and lean Zucker rats possess functionally active melanocytes in the meninges and the pituitary and transfer pigment granules to neighboring cells. The distributions of melanocytes in proximity to blood vessels in the leptomeninges and in the 'infundibulo-hypophysial circle' suggest an endocrine secretory function.
The biological base for psychodynamic psychotherapy has been increasingly recognized as archaic--unable to provide a conceptual framework within which to place the rapid progress in the basic neurosciences and the clinical successes of modern psychopharmacology. A gradual conceptual synthesis has been occurring between the study of the formal properties of general systems, including both animate and inanimate systems and evolutionary thinking, with special emphasis on the adaptive design of the human mind/brain. That synthesis points the way to an evolutionary-based complex adaptive systems model. Such a model would reflect our understanding of the brain as a modular system, with distributed memory and no central locus of executive control. A prominent design feature would be an automatically operating process coordinating and harmonizing various specialized brain modules--integrative processing. Pennebaker's research (Opening Up: The Healing Power of Expressing Emotions, Guilford, 1997) on personal self-disclosure illustrates ways in which the concept of integrative processing can help our understanding of the brain's basic function in dealing with emotional issues. It also provides a useful way of conceptualizing the clinical effect of psychopharmacological interventions.
The abnormality of cytoskeletal proteins is related to Alzheimer's disease. Because neurofilament proteins (NF) are major cytoskeletal components of neurones, abnormality of NF may be involved in the pathology of disease. In this study, insoluble NF in the grey matter of temporal lobes of Alzheimer and control brains were dissolved in a urea buffer and quantitatively measured by an enzyme linked immunosorbent assay system. No apparent quantitative changes of NF-L and NF-H were found between the Alzheimer and control brains, and there were also no significant differences in the mean molar ratio of NF-L to NF-H between them. However, the relative amount of phosphorylated NF-H in Alzheimer brains was increased in comparison with that in control brains. These results suggest that the increase of phosphorylated NF-H might be accompanied with Alzheimer's disease.
The concept of stereotaxy is essentially based on functional topography, which continuously evolved from the first observation by Hippocrates of a motor deficit contralateral to an hemispheric wound, to the characteristic example of Broca's speech area. The fate of a method depends on the need for it. When an outsider phenomenon, such as a pharmacological newcomer, occurred, which brought, at least for a given period, a satisfactory solution, the need for the method disappeared and sent it in oblivion. At the same time, the understanding that some pathologies, such as brain tumors, were not adequately taken care of by classical surgery and could eventually respond correctly to general treatments, such as chemotherapy or radiotherapy, induced the application of this forgotten, or near to be abandoned, method to a totally new field: this is what Talairach and his associates did when they introduced the stereotactic biopsy, at a time where movement disorders needed less surgery as levodopa had come and provided a very attractive treatment. When, on the contrary, it appeared that some forms of Parkinson's disease less responded to the drugs or were plauged by motor fluctuations and dyskinesias, there could be a new need for surgery. However, complications became at that time unacceptable and the method was required to evolve towards new directions where efficacy goes with a negligible morbidity. This led eventually to new developments such as brain grafting or more recently high frequency deep brain stimulation. Stereotaxy, like other methods, has experienced this type of fluctuation in its history and has on each occasion progressed and acquired new skills and possibilities, far beyond what it was initially designed for.
The historical role of the French Neurology in the development of anatomo-clinical method is likely to explain why the first communications on electrophysiology were presented in Paris with some delay, as compared with other european societies where the neurophysiological tradition had been more lively. Though clinical neurophysiology, by essence, addresses the pathophysiology of neurological disorders, it has sometimes missed this target at its very beginning, when it aimed at providing data supposed to have some aetiological specificity, causing distrust among neurologists used to accept aetiological diagnosis only when based on post-mortem anatomical evidence. Thanks to the discovery of computerized tomography this time has been over for 25 years, and no one would question anymore the role of clinical neurophysiology and neuroimaging in Neurology, the former giving access to the timing of sensori-motor and cognitive pocesses and the latter to the localization of brain functions. This article reviews the neurophysiological literature published in the Revue Neurologique from 1948 to 1998.
Quarrels over aphasia are no recent phenomena and have not always been explicit. Lordat and Gall can be cited in this respect as well as Dax and Bouillaud. Reference is also made to Broca-Dax and Trousseau-Lordat. The creation of the Chair in honour of Charcot, which contributed so greatly (thanks to Charcot himself, the others Masters and their students) to the birth of neurology, then to that of the neurological sciences and eventually to that of the neurocognitive sciences. Next, the most explicit of quarrels on aphasia is dealt with, namely that in which, during three meetings of the French Society of Neurology in 1908, Joseph Jules Dejerine and Pierre Marie crossed swords. Their duel in the Bois de Boulogne in 1893 having fortunately been cancelled, it was in 1908 merely a battle of words. Fulgence Raymond was soon to retire. Dejerine and Pierre Marie each put forward their proposal to the Society for a discussion program and Dejerine's was accepted following a vote. The meeting on 11th June, in accordance with the program proposed by Dejerine, was largely restricted to clinical facts. Fulgence Raymond was not present. Dejerine always spoke first, but some of the replies from Pierre Marie received a degree of approval from the audience. It was during this meeting that Achille Souques, the future founder of the history of neurology, cleverly defended the ideas of Pierre Marie. A little later, Dejerine went on the defensive and agreed to a change in the program along the lines suggested by Pierre Marie: he then presented his ideas on the manifest clinical difference between Broca's aphasia and that of Wernicke. After Souques, Edouard Brissaud also came to the rescue of Pierre Marie by mentioning the Leborgne case published by Broca in the spring 1861. Matters were unresolved and Andr-Thomas, the future founder of neuropaediatrics, produced a highly intelligent deference of his Master Dejerine. Gilbert Ballet and Ernest Dupr also came down largely on his side. The meeting of 9th July (27th anniversary of the Charcot Chair) was dedicated to cerebral anatomy and the &quot;quadrilateral&quot;. The subject of Dejerine's questionnaire was again raised. Accompanied by Georges Guillain, Fulgence Raymond was present on this occasion (but refrained from speaking). This time the star was Augusta Dejerine Klumpke, born on a Spanish sand dune now known as San Francisco, U.S.A. Mrs Dejerine contested the &quot;lenticular zone&quot; and gave it a quite different dimension by proving that its anterodorsal part included associative axons originating in or projecting to Broca's area, the remainder of the &quot;Pierre Marie quadrilateral&quot; being called into question. Brissaud was impressed by the performance of Madame Dejerine, and Pierre Marie found himself in an awkward position. His student Franois Moutier, present at his request, discussed his own clinical cases and then, on the subject of &quot;Lelong's&quot; brain' (autumn 1861), let it be known that Broca had scratched it with his finger nails while removing the meninges. Andr-Thomas and Georges Guillain took part in the discussion. At the last meeting, on 23rd July, Brissaud was absent. Fulgence Raymond was again present but remained silent. The only subject on the agenda was &quot;physiological pathology&quot;, but several points that had not been resolved on the 9th July were brought up again. On this occasion, Pierre Marie opened the debate and adopted a very cautious approach. However, his patience eventually ran out and he replied sharply to the comments of Dejerine on &quot;images of language&quot; and those of Dupr on &quot;mental representations&quot;. Metaphorically speaking, it might be said that the gold medal was not awarded, Augusta Dejerine Klumpke took the silver, Dupr and Andr-Thomas shared the bronze, and Souques and Moutier each deserved a special mention. It might also be suggested that in 1908 the Society sketched out to a large extent the programme for research on aphasia for the century to come. (ABSTRACT TRUNCATE
The &quot;Socit de Neurologie de Paris&quot;, started by 17 founding members all of whom with the exception of Dejerine were students of Charcot, helds its inaugural session on 6th July 1899. It became the &quot;Socit Franaise de Neurologie&quot; in 1949. Its history is intertwined with that of neurology itself, to whose progress it greatly contributed through the work presented at its monthly sessions and collated in the Revue Neurologique, &quot;the official organ for its publications&quot;. The &quot;Runions Neurologiques Internationales&quot;, which began in 1920, increased its prestige and widened its public. Down the years they have borne witness to the preoccupations of the day, reflecting the development of neurology and the prodigious changes that it has undergone. Born under the sign of the anatomico-clinical method, the Society has unceasingly transformed itself in keeping with the evolving science, taking on board all the latest advances in medicine and biology and their associated techniques. It has given birth to neurosurgery, clinical neurophysiology and neuroradiology. The multiplicity of new techniques governing progress in the discipline threatened to have an adverse effect on the integrity of the Society. However, it is within the context of the Society that the wide range of neurosciences can find the federating influence they need to take their place within the corpus of neurology. The history of the Society has also reflected the century through which it has lived, a century which has proved one of the most tragic in the history of the western world. It has suffered its many vicissitudes, which have been fundamental in determining the nature of its work and its sphere of influence.
A 24-years-old woman with epilepsy treated with valproic acid developed disorientation, acalculia, perseveration, slow responsiveness and loss of memory. The drug withdrawal induced a quick improvement of mental function. In this case, hyperammonemia, hypocarnitinemia, increased protein in cerebrospinal fluid were found. When the drug was discontinued, she had a dramatic improvement. Valproic acid caused encephalopathy because of metabolic abnormality in mitochondria in this case. In the cases of encephalopathy caused by valproic acid, the drug administration should be withdrawn, and appropriate measures had to be taken. In addition, elevation of ammonia in the blood, lactic acid and pyruic acid in the serum and cerebrospinal fluid, and decreased carnitine level in the serum will be useful to make a diagnosis of valproate-induced encephalopathy.
Evidence pertaining to the neurobiological mechanisms by which emotional arousal influences memory is reviewed. Substantial evidence from studies of both infra-human and human subjects converges on the view that the enhancing effect of emotional arousal on long-term memory formation depends on an endogenous memory modulatory mechanism consisting of, at minimum, the adrenergic system and the amygdala. Relatively unrelated to memory formation for nonemotionally arousing events, this mechanism is thought to operate during and after an emotionally stressful event, and provide a means by which long-term memory storage is &quot;weighted&quot; in general proportion to the importance of the information being stored. Potential malfunctions of this normally adaptive mechanism, and some therapeutic possibilities these potential malfunctions raise, are also discussed.
The effects of ciliary neurotrophic factor on nitric oxide (NO)-induced cytotoxicity were examined in primary cultures of rat hippocampal neurons. The neurotoxicity was induced by NO donors, such as sodium nitroprusside (SNP), s-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine (SNAP), NOS substrate, L-arginine (L-Arg) and ionomycin (a calcium ionophore). Preincubation of the cultures with ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) for 24 h promoted neuronal survival and decreased the LDH efflux and the level of NO induced by ionomycin. The protective effects of CNTF against NO cytotoxicity were concentration-dependent. The above findings suggest that CNTF promotes the survival of neurons in the hippocampus by preventing NO mediated neurotoxicity.

A comparison between the development of cognitive science in France and the USA enables us to analyze some national differences linked to specific connections between the scientific, military, economic and political worlds. The influence of new practices and tools developed during World War II and the Cold War appears to be of crucial importance in understanding the development of this new field, as well as that of cybernetics, computer science, artificial intelligence and molecular biology. This paper can be considered as a study in how the differing contexts in France and the USA shaped the history of the construction of cognitive science in each of these two countries. In spite of various differences, some common aspects may be pointed out: in both cases, computer experts and psychologists using a computational modelling approach were those first engaged in the construction of cognitive science. If in France neuroscience-oriented cognitive science research was stronger than in the USA, it seems that the artificial intelligence orientation is also of growing importance in France.


Post-traumatic syringomyelia is estimated to develop in more than 20% of individuals with traumatic spinal cord injury (SCI). The development can give rise to clinical symptoms 6 months to 26 years after the injury, and presentation 40 years post-injury has been seen by one of the authors.1234 We present an unusual case for comments and discussion.



Both iodine-123-labeled beta-CIT (2beta-carbomethoxy-3beta-(4-iodophenyl)tropane) and nor-beta-CIT (2beta-carbomethoxy-3beta-(4-iodophenyl)nortropane) have shown to be suitable radioligands for imaging serotonin (5-HT) transporters. [(123)I]nor-beta-CIT has the highest in vitro affinity for 5-HT transporters among beta-CIT analogs reported so far. However, no direct comparison-studies of these two radiotracers as to their in vivo binding to 5-HT transporters have been reported so far. Therefore, it is still unclear which of the two radiotracers is more suitable for single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) imaging of 5-HT transporters. The purpose of this study was to compare directly in a controlled design the in vivo [(123)I]beta-CIT and [(123)I]nor-beta-CIT binding to 5-HT transporters under the same conditions in rats with the focus on brain kinetic characteristics by means of a two-compartment analysis. We observed that [(123)I]beta-CIT has a higher binding potential and faster kinetics for 5-HT transporters than [(123)I]nor-beta-CIT, suggesting that [(123)I]beta-CIT may be a more suitable radioligand than [(123)I]nor-beta-CIT for imaging 5-HT transporters with SPECT.
Opiate- and psychostimulant-induced modulation of dopamine transmission in the nucleus accumbens shell (AcbSh) is thought to play a key role in their potent reinforcing and locomotor effects. To investigate the cellular basis for potential functional interactions involving opiates active at the delta-opioid receptor (DOR) and psychostimulants that bind selectively to the dopamine transporter (DAT), we examined the electron microscopic localization of their respective antisera in rat AcbSh. DOR immunoperoxidase labeling was seen primarily, and DAT immunogold particles exclusively, in axon terminals. In these terminals, DOR immunoreactivity was prominently associated with discrete segments of the plasma membrane and the membranes of nearby small synaptic and large dense core vesicles. DAT immunogold particles were almost exclusively distributed along nonsynaptic axonal plasma membranes. Thirty-nine percent DOR-labeled profiles (221/566) either apposed DAT-immunoreactive terminals or also contained DAT. Of these 221 DOR-labeled profiles, 13% were axon terminals containing DAT and 15% were dendritic spines apposed to DAT-immunoreactive terminals. In contrast, 70% were morphologically heterogeneous axon terminals and small axons apposed to DAT-immunoreactive terminals. Our results indicate that DOR agonists in the AcbSh can directly modulate the release of dopamine, as well as postsynaptic responses in spiny neurons that receive dopaminergic input, but act principally to control the presynaptic secretion of other neurotransmitters whose release may influence or be influenced by extracellular dopamine. Thus, while opiates and psychostimulants mainly have differential sites of action, cross-sensitization of their addictive properties may occur through common neuronal targets.

A 35-year-old man with schizophrenia was successfully treated with clozapine at a daily oral dose of 700-725 mg for more than 7 consecutive years. Two weeks after abrupt cessation of chronic heavy cigarette smoking, he suddenly developed tonic clonic seizures followed by stupor and coma. After 2 days of intensive care, the patient recovered completely but could not recall the episode. Clozapine therapy was reinstituted and could be carried out successfully at 425 mg daily, i.e., at an approximately 40% reduction of the daily dose before he stopped smoking. The sudden cessation of smoking most likely caused a rise in plasma concentrations of clozapine and/or clozapine metabolites resulting in the seizure episode. A likely mechanism is that the heavy smoking had induced cytochrome P450-1A2, the main enzyme involved in the metabolism of clozapine.
A re-evaluation of the goals and techniques of generative grammar since the mid-1960s suggests that its mentalistic/biological program for describing language is still sound and has been borne out by subsequent developments. Likewise, the idea of a generative system of combinatorial rules has led to a tremendous expansion of our understanding of linguistic phenomena. However, certain fundamental features of the versions of generative grammar based on Chomsky's work prevent the theory from making deep liaisons with related fields such as language processing and neuroscience. Perhaps the most prominent of these is the assumption that all creative aspects of language stem from syntactic structure. In this article, I propose a model of generative grammar that generalizes features of several, alternative, non-Chomskyan generative frameworks. In this model, language is seen as composed of three independent generative components (phonological, syntactic, and semantic/conceptual structure), whose respective structures are placed in correspondence by 'interface components'. Besides being able to incorporate a host of purely linguistic facts, this view leads to a more direct relationship between the theory of grammar and the theory of lexical and grammatical processing.
Cognitive neuroscience can make a significant contribution towards the development of a scientific basis for the practice of brain rehabilitation. Though rehabilitation is a vast worldwide industry, there is little scientific basis for the training and therapy that are designed to help damaged brain circuits to recover. The systematic application of cognitive neuroscience models to rehabilitation can not only foster better, more theoretically grounded rehabilitation, but the models themselves can be tested and modified by data generated in rehabilitation-oriented research. The example of unilateral spatial neglect is used here to show how non-intuitive but clinically tractable methods can emerge out of systematic application of cognitive neuroscience to the problem of how to foster dynamic change and recovery in the damaged brain. Examples are given of recently developed rehabilitation methods for unilateral spatial neglect that are both derived from theoretical models of cognitive function, and that feed back into these models. These include dorsal-ventral stream interactions, perceptuo-motor interactions, interhemispheric inhibitory dynamics, and arousal-spatial attention interactions. It will be to the mutual benefit of basic cognitive neuroscience and rehabilitation if this type of research is expanded into other domains of cognitive function, in which similar theory-practice interactions exist.
In this article, we review behavioral and neurobiological studies of the perception and use of species-specific vocalizations by non-human primates. At the behavioral level, primate vocal perception shares many features with speech perception by humans. These features include a left-hemisphere bias towards conspecific vocalizations, the use of temporal features for identifying different calls, and the use of calls to refer to objects and events in the environment. The putative neural bases for some of these behaviors have been revealed by recent studies of the primate auditory and prefrontal cortices. These studies also suggest homologies with the human language circuitry. Thus, a synthesis of cognitive, ethological and neurobiological approaches to primate vocal behavior is likely to yield the richest understanding of the neural bases of speech perception, and might also shed light on the evolutionary precursors to language.



In two articles by Wolf Singer, published in TINS in 1994 and 1997, brief analyses were presented of the problems faced by the European neuroscience community in its attempt to provide a cohesive response to meet the challenge of the proclamation of the 'Decade of the Brain'. One of the most-important decisions was to promote a forum for European neuroscience that, among other activities, would hold bi-annual meetings, alternating with meetings of partner European neuroscience societies in the intervening year. The first fruit of this was the enormously successful meeting held in Berlin in June 1998. The next meeting, the FENS millennium meeting, will be held in Brighton, UK (24-28 June 2000).
It is now recognized that necrotic neurological insults often trigger apoptosis in a subset of neurons. It is also now apparent that such apoptosis rarely matches the 'classical' apoptosis seen during development or the physiological turnover of cells outside the nervous system. As a result, the view has emerged that the 'apoptosis-like' changes that follow necrotic insults represent a different phenomenon, which is on a vague continuum with the necrotic features of cell death. We suggest that apoptosis following neurological insults is, in actuality, mechanistically identical to classical apoptosis. However, the atypical apoptotic endpoints that are observed are inevitable, given the way in which insult-triggered apoptosis is likely to have evolved.
The presence of autoreceptors for simple neurotransmitters at synapses in the mammalian nervous system is well established. By contrast, the evidence for such receptors modifying neuropeptide transmission is less obvious. Probably the most well characterized of the neuropeptides is substance P (SP), which appears to play a major role as a primary afferent modulator. This article highlights evidence to support the existence of autoreceptors that might modulate the release of this neuropeptide and which, therefore, could be important in the design of drugs affecting SP function, not only in sensory processing, but also elsewhere in the brain.
The Adelson-Bergen energy model (Adelson, E. H., &amp; Bergen, J. R. (1985). Spatiotemporal energy models for the perception of motion. Journal of the Optical Society of America A, 2, 284-299) is a standard framework for understanding first-order motion processing. The opponent energy for a given input is calculated by subtracting one directional energy measure (EL) from its opposite (ER), and its sign indicates the direction of motion of the input. Our observers viewed a dynamic sequence of gratings (1 c/deg) equivalent to the sum of two gratings moving in opposite directions with different contrasts. The ratio of contrasts was varied across trials. We found that opponent energy was a very poor predictor of direction discrimination performance. Heeger (1992). Normalization of cell responses in cat striate cortex. Visual Neuroscience, 9, 181-197) has suggested that divisive inhibition amongst striate cells requires a contrast gain control in the energy model. A new metric can be formulated in the spirit of Heeger's model by normalising the opponent energy (EL - ER) with flicker energy, the sum of the directional motion energies (EL + ER). This new measure, motion contrast (EL - ER)/(EL + ER), was found to be a good predictor of direction discrimination performance over a wide range of contrast levels, but opponent energy was not. Discrimination thresholds expressed as motion contrast were around 0.5 +/- 0.1 for the sampled drifting gratings used in our experiments. We show that the dependence on motion contrast, and the threshold of about 0.5, can be predicted by a modified opponent energy model based on current knowledge of the response functions and response variance of cortical cells.
Motion transparency requires that the visual system distinguish different motion vectors and selectively integrate similar motion vectors over space into the perception of multiple surfaces moving through or over each other. Using large-field (7 degrees x 7 degrees) displays containing two populations of random-dots moving in the same (horizontal) direction but at different speeds, we examined speed-based segmentation by measuring the speed difference above which observers can perceive two moving surfaces. We systematically investigated this 'speed-segmentation' threshold as a function of speed and stimulus duration, and found that it increases sharply for speeds above approximately 8 degrees/s. In addition, speed-segmentation thresholds decrease with stimulus duration out to approximately 200 ms. In contrast, under matched conditions, speed-discrimination thresholds stay low at least out to 16 degrees/s and decrease with increasing stimulus duration at a faster rate than for speed segmentation. Thus, motion segmentation and motion discrimination exhibit different speed selectivity and different temporal integration characteristics. Results are discussed in terms of the speed preferences of different neuronal populations within the primate visual cortex.
Using heterochromatic flicker photometry, we have measured the corneal spectral sensitivities of the X-chromosome-linked photopigments in 40 dichromats, 37 of whom have a single opsin gene in their tandem array. The photopigments encoded by their genes include: the alanine variant of the normal middle-wavelength sensitive photopigment, M(A180); the alanine and serine variants of the normal long-wavelength sensitive photopigment, L(A180) and L(S180); four different L-M hybrid or anomalous photopigments, L2M3(A180), L3M4(S180), L4M5(A180) and L4M5(S180); and two variants of the L-cone photopigment, encoded by genes with embedded M-cone exon two sequences, L(M2; A180) and L(M2; S180). The peak absorbances (lambda max) of the underlying photopigment spectra associated with each genotype were estimated by correcting the corneal spectral sensitivities back to the retinal level, after removing the effects of the macular and lens pigments and fitting a template of fixed shape to the dilute photopigment spectrum. Details of the genotype-phenotype correlations are summarized elsewhere (Sharpe, L. T., Stockman, A., Jgle, H., Knau, H., Klausen, G., Reitner, A. et al. (1998). J. Neuroscience, 18, 10053-10069). Here, we present the individual corneal spectral sensitivities for the first time as well as details and a comparison of three analyses used to estimate the lambda max values, including one in which the lens and macular pigment densities of each observer were individually measured.
We previously proposed a model for detecting local image velocity on the magnocellular visual pathway (Kawakami &amp; Okamoto (1996) Vision Research, 36, 117-147). The model detects visual motion in two stages using the hierarchical network that includes component and pattern cells in area MT. To validate the model, we predicted two types of bimodal direction tuning for MT neurons. The first type is characteristic of component cells. The tuning is bimodal when stimulated with high-speed spots, but unimodal for low-speed spots or for bars. The interval between the two peaks widens as the spot's speed increases. The second type is characteristic of pattern cells. The tuning is bimodal when stimulated with low-speed bars, but unimodal for high-speed bars or for spots. The interval widens as the bar's speed decreases. To confirm this prediction, we studied the change of direction tuning curves for moving spots and bars in area MT of macaque monkeys. Out of 35 neurons measured at various speeds, six component cells and four pattern cells revealed the predicted bimodal tunings. This result provided neurophysiological support for the validity of the model. We believe ours is the first systematic study that records the two types of bimodality in MT neurons.
We examined how vernier thresholds for flickering bars depend on the temporal frequency and relative temporal phase of the bars. The largest effect of relative phase (up to a fivefold increase in displacement thresholds) was seen at 2 Hz, and for most subjects, relative phase had little effect at 16 Hz and above. The effect of relative phase was essentially independent of contrast and trial duration. Thresholds were elevated by the greatest amount when bars were presented in antiphase, but at 1 and 4 Hz, quadrature phase offsets also led to substantial elevations in displacement thresholds. An experiment designed to examine the interaction of the vernier judgment with apparent motion failed to identify a role for mechanisms sensitive to apparent motion in threshold elevation. Another experiment in which the bars were modulated with sawtooth waveforms indicated that temporal correlation between the bars, rather than the ON versus OFF distinction, underlies the phase sensitivity. A simple dynamical model that posits partial rectification prior to a cross-correlation-like interaction accounts for the observed results.
This paper reviews literature on the motion processing of dynamic change in binocular disparity, called stereoscopic (cyclopean) motion. Studies investigating the visual processing of stereoscopic motion in the Z-axis, stereoscopic motion in the X/Y plane, and cyclopean motion are discussed. It is concluded that stereoscopic motion is processed by a motion-sensing system composed of special-purpose mechanisms that function like low-level motion sensors. For animals with binocular vision, low-level motion processing may involve, at least in part, stereoscopic processing.
The formation of boundaries that prevent the intermixing of cells is an important developmental patterning mechanism. The compartmental lineage restrictions that appear in the developing imaginal discs of Drosophila are striking examples of such boundaries. However, little is known about the cellular mechanism underlying compartmental lineage restrictions. The dorsoventral (D/V) lineage restriction that arises late in the developing wing imaginal disc requires the dorsal expression of the transcription factor Apterous and it has been hypothesized that apterous (ap) maintains compartmentalization by directly regulating the expression of molecules that modify cell adhesion or affinity. However, ap expression also regulates signalling between dorsal and ventral compartments, resulting in high levels of Notch signalling at the D/V boundary. Here we show that the formation of Notch-dependent boundary cells is required for the D/V lineage restriction.
Psychomotor deficits are a prominent feature in subjects exposed to hypoxia. Eight subjects exposed to chronic hypoxia during a simulated climb to 8848 m (Everest-Comex 97) were investigated using both a simple psychomotor task (Purdue pegboard) and two complex psychomotor tasks including a recognition task of either a color stimulus (high semantic level) or an abstract sign (low semantic level). Exposure to hypoxic stress mainly produced psychomotor skills learning deficits compared to control study, with greater deficits in the complex psychomotor task. The pattern of results suggests disruptions of motor strategic process. Our data further suggest that the relative strength of implicit or automatic memory processes associated with semantic information processing may increase when disturbances occur in brain functions.
To determine the types of brain cells responsible for the production of amyloid beta peptides (A beta), as well as their carboxyl-terminal properties, we studied the secretion of A beta in rat neuronal, astrocytic, microglial and meningeal primary cell cultures. All four types of cells produced A beta, among which neurons secreted approximately 4 times more A beta than other cell types. The percentage of A beta42 ending at position 42 as a fraction of total A beta was similar between different cell types, ranging from 10 to 15%. These results suggest that neurons might be the most potent source for A beta production in the brain, although other non-neuronal type cells could also contribute to this process.
The early clinical symptoms of Parkinson's disease (PD) may be difficult to perceive and are frequently overlooked. Thus, interest has focused on the identification of biological or instrumental markers that may contribute to the early diagnosis of PD, with the aim of introducing neuroprotective therapies at the very start of illness. Impairment of nigrostriatal dopamine transmission can be visualized in vivo by functional imaging techniques, but these are rather complex and expensive examinations, available only in selected institutions. Here we show that dopamine content and tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity are reduced in peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBL) in the early stages of PD. These data suggest that PBL may represent a simple and useful tool with which to identify precociously dopamine impairment in PD.
The distinction between schizophrenia (dementia praecox) and bipolar disorder (manic-depressive insanity), proposed by Kraepelin in 1896, was the subject of vigorous debate in the first decades of this century. The debate addressed fundamental questions about the principles underlying the nosology of psychiatric disorders, and the issues raised remain as relevant today as at the time they were formulated. A meta-analysis of a sample of Kraepelin's primary data suggests that his original classification was consistent with the empirical evidence. However, heeding his critics, Kraepelin modified considerably his earlier views and proposed a conceptual model of the pathogenesis of schizophrenia and affective psychosis that is consonant with present-day ideas arising out of neuroscience and genetics. The lesson to be drawn is that nosological arguments should be put on hold until basic understanding is gained of the specific mechanisms of syndromogenesis across diagnostic boundaries.
Dopamine, by activating D(1)- and D(2)-class receptors, plays a significant role in regulating gene expression. Although much is known about D(1) receptor-regulated gene expression, there has been far less information on gene regulation mediated by D(2) receptors. In this study, we show that D(2) receptors can activate the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and the cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) in neurons. Treatment of brain slices with the D(2) receptor agonist quinpirole induced rapid phosphorylation of MAPK and CREB. The neuroleptic drug eticlopride, a highly selective D(2) receptor antagonist, blocked the quinpirole-induced phosphorylation of MAPK and CREB. D(2) receptor-induced MAPK phosphorylation depended on intracellular Ca(2+) elevation, protein kinase C activation, and MAPK kinase activation, but not on the protein tyrosine kinase Pyk2, even though quinpirole stimulated Pyk2 phosphorylation. D(2) receptor-induced CREB phosphorylation was mediated by activation of protein kinase C and Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase, but not MAPK. The dopamine and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein DARPP-32 also was required for the regulation of MAPK and CREB phosphorylation by D(2) receptors. Our results suggest that MAPK and CREB signaling cascades are involved in the regulation of gene expression and other long-term effects of D(2) receptor activation.
Electrical stimulation of the cerebellar fastigial nucleus (FN) in spontaneously hypertensive (SHR), Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) and Fisher rats reduced, by approximately 50%, the infarctions produced by occlusion of the middle cerebral artery. Blockade of ATP-dependent potassium (K-ATP) channels with glibenclamide (i.c.v.) abolished salvage only in the SHR rat. While blockade of K-ATP channels failed to abolish salvage in WKY and Fisher rats, participation of potassium channels in neurogenic neuroprotection cannot be excluded.
Amyloid beta protein (Abeta) has been thought to participate in the neurodegeneration associated with Alzheimer's disease. We here report on caspase-3 activation by Abeta-treatment of cultured neurons. Treatment of rat primary cortical culture with Abeta 25-35, an active fragment of Abeta, induced neuronal death as determined by a decrease in neuron-specific microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2)-like immunoreactivity and by the release of cellular lactate dehydrogenase (LDH). Abeta 25-35 also induced elevation of caspase-3-like Ac-DEVD-MCA cleavage activity in advance of neuronal death with similar concentration-dependency for neuronal death. Inhibitor sensitivity of the Abeta-induced proteolytic activity was similar to that of human recombinant caspase-3. Cleavage of pro-caspase-3 and cleavage of its endogenous substrates, poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) and alpha-fodrin, were produced by Abeta-treatment. A caspase-3 inhibitor, Ac-DEVD-CHO, prevented Abeta-induced DNA fragmentation and cleavage of alpha-fodrin, but not of PARP. Caspase inhibitor of broad specificity, Z-VAD-CH(2)-DCB, additionally prevented Abeta-induced cleavage of PARP and some early loss of cell membrane integrity measured by LDH release. However, Abeta-induced condensation of nuclear chromatin and most of the late disintegration of cell membranes were not prevented in the presence of these caspase inhibitors. These results suggest that activation of both caspase-3 and caspase(s) other than caspase-3 play distinct roles in Abeta-induced apoptosis of rat cortical neurons. Furthermore, in the presence of caspase inhibitors, Abeta-induced neuronal death still occurred with different morphological features.

Rho-associated kinase (Rho-kinase) is a serine/threonine protein kinase downstream of the small GTPase Rho, which participates in signaling pathways of many cellular functions. Although Rho-kinase is implicated in the regulation of the morphology of neuronal cells, the distribution of Rho-kinase in the brain has not been elucidated yet. In this study, we investigated the distribution of Rho-kinase using three antibodies recognizing the different epitopes of Rho-kinase. Rho-kinase was abundantly expressed in the gray matter in comparison with the white matter. Strong immunoreactivity was observed in the pyramidal neurons of the cerebral cortex and hippocampus and in the Purkinje cells of the cerebellum. These results indicate that Rho-kinase is abundantly distributed in neurons and might play an important role in remodeling of neurites.
Since both estrogen and NMDA receptor antagonists act on the hippocampus CA1 region and behaviorally affect hippocampal memory tasks, we examined how estrogen depletion (ovariectomy) and NMDA receptor antagonism interact upon spatial memory of the mouse. After ovariectomy or sham operation, mice were given a 2-week recovery before behavioral tests began under the influence of vehicle or (+/-)-3-(2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)-propyl-1-phosphonic acid (CPP 2, 5 and 10 mg/kg) intraperitoneal injections. CPP is a competitive, full NMDA receptor antagonist. Spatial reference memory was tested by the water maze, spatial working memory was tested by the radial arm maze, while overall locomotive activity was monitored by the Y-maze. Results from the water maze and the Y-maze did not show any spatial reference memory or activity differences between sham-operated and ovariectomized mice. The radial arm maze, however, highlighted some working memory differences between intact and ovariectomized mice. CPP treatment impaired dose dependently--the performance of ovariectomy and sham-operated mice equally on both water maze and radial arm maze, while the drug had no effect on Y-maze performance. These results suggest that short term estrogen deprivation has no effect upon spatial-reference memory, while it impairs spatial working memory. This effect is probably not mediated by NMDA receptors.
Vagal stimulation results in both gastric motor excitatory and non-adrenergic non-cholinergic (NANC) inhibitory responses. The NANC pathway involves preganglionic cholinergic neurons, which act through nicotinic receptors to ultimately evoke gastric smooth muscle relaxation via release of nitric oxide (NO) and other neurotransmitters. Within the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus (DMN), some preganglionic neurons also contain NO synthase. The NO synthase-containing neurons innervate the gastric fundus where adaptive relaxation occurs. This study tests the hypothesis that chemical stimulation of vagal motor neurons in animals, in which nicotinic receptors are blocked, evokes an NO-dependent gastric relaxation. A cell body excitant, N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA, 0.03-3 nmol), was microinjected into the DMN in anesthetized rats while recording intragastric pressure (IgP). The first group received NMDA before and after administration of a ganglionic blocker, hexamethonium bromide (15 mg/kg, i.v.) and atropine (1.0 mg/kg). Significant dose-dependent increases in IgP and gastric motility occurred before hexamethonium after the 0.3 and 3 nmol doses of NMDA. After hexamethonium, 0.3 and 3 nmol NMDA evoked significant decreases in IgP. A second group of rats was hexamethonium-pretreated and received NMDA microinjection into the DMN before and after an NO synthase inhibitor, N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (10 mg/kg, i.v.). The NMDA-evoked decrease in IgP was completely abolished by the NO synthase inhibitor. These data support the novel idea that NO synthase-containing preganglionic neurons mediate gastric relaxation that is independent of nicotinic receptors.
The development of the sympathetic innervation to rat irideal arterioles has been investigated using histochemical and in vitro pharmacological and electrophysiological methods. A plexus of fibres and varicosities appeared over the surface of the vessels after the first postnatal week and increased to reach a maximum density during the fourth postnatal week. Transmural nerve stimulation produced small, consistent contractions that were first recorded in arterioles of 7-day old rats. Contractions became larger and faster, reaching the adult form during the fourth postnatal week. Contractions became more sensitive to the alpha1-adrenoceptor antagonists, prazosin and naftopidil, and less sensitive to the alpha1A/D antagonist, WB4101 and alpha2 antagonist, yohimbine, during development. At both 10 and 21 days, contractile responses resulted from the release of intracellular calcium as they were abolished by caffeine (10(-3) M), thapsigargin (2 x 10(-6) M) and cyclopiazonic acid (3 x 10(-6) M), but not by nifedipine (10(-6) M). Intracellular recordings showed that nerve stimulation produced large, slow depolarizations at all ages tested. Time to peak potential decreased during development, while the amplitude of the depolarizations did not vary significantly. Results suggest that, throughout development, sympathetic nerves cause constriction of iris arterioles due to the release of noradrenaline and activation of alpha-adrenoceptors on the smooth muscle cells. Early responses involved both alpha1- and alpha2-adrenoceptors, while later responses were due to alpha1-adrenoceptors only. Irrespective of these changes in adrenoceptor subtypes, smooth muscle contraction resulted from the mobilization of intracellular calcium suggesting that both alpha1- and alpha2-adrenoceptors were coupled to pathways which accessed this source of calcium.
Fos expression induced by injection of dilute formalin (50 microl, 5% in physiological saline) into the colonic wall was examined in the myenteric plexus, lumbosacral spinal cord and brainstem of the rat. The aims of this study were (i) to determine whether neurons in these regions express Fos in response to the injection of formalin into the colon and (ii) to examine whether administration of an alpha 2 adrenoceptor agonist modulates Fos expression. Tissues were removed 2 h after the injection of saline or formalin. Saline injected in the colon induced Fos in enteric glia in the myenteric plexus. The number of Fos immunoreactive nuclei significantly increased in both myenteric neurons and enteric glia after the injection of formalin. Similarly, Fos immunoreactive neuronal nuclei were significantly increased in the spinal cord, area postrema and nucleus of the solitary tract after the injection of formalin. Pretreatment of rats with the alpha 2 adrenoceptor agonist xylazine (2, 4 and 8 mg/kg) 15 min before the injection of formalin, dose-dependently reduced the number of Fos immunoreactive neuronal and glial nuclei in the myenteric plexus, and neuronal nuclei in the spinal cord and brainstem. Simultaneous administration of xylazine (8 mg/kg) and the alpha 2 adrenoceptor antagonist yohimbine (1 mg/kg) reversed the effects of xylazine in the spinal cord and brainstem, but not in the myenteric plexus. These data show that injection of formalin in the colonic wall results in Fos expression in myenteric neurons and enteric glia, and neurons in the spinal cord and brainstem. This may be due to the direct chemical stimulation of the innervation of the colon and/or the subsequent acute colitis. The observed neuronal Fos expression can be modulated by an alpha 2 adrenoceptor agonist through noradrenergic pathways and/or reduction of the excitability of the enteric neural circuitry.
The development of the sympathetic innervation to rat irideal arterioles has been investigated using histochemical and in vitro pharmacological and electrophysiological methods. A plexus of fibres and varicosities appeared over the surface of the vessels after the first postnatal week and increased to reach a maximum density during the fourth postnatal week. Transmural nerve stimulation produced small, consistent contractions that were first recorded in arterioles of 7-day old rats. Contractions became larger and faster, reaching the adult form during the fourth postnatal week. Contractions became more sensitive to the alpha1-adrenoceptor antagonists, prazosin and naftopidil, and less sensitive to the alpha1A/D antagonist, WB4101 and alpha2 antagonist, yohimbine, during development. At both 10 and 21 days, contractile responses resulted from the release of intracellular calcium as they were abolished by caffeine (10(-3) M), thapsigargin (2 x 10(-6) M) and cyclopiazonic acid (3 x 10(-6) M), but not by nifedipine (10(-6) M). Intracellular recordings showed that nerve stimulation produced large, slow depolarizations at all ages tested. Time to peak potential decreased during development, while the amplitude of the depolarizations did not vary significantly. Results suggest that, throughout development, sympathetic nerves cause constriction of iris arterioles due to the release of noradrenaline and activation of alpha-adrenoceptors on the smooth muscle cells. Early responses involved both alpha1- and alpha2-adrenoceptors, while later responses were due to alpha1-adrenoceptors only. Irrespective of these changes in adrenoceptor subtypes, smooth muscle contraction resulted from the mobilization of intracellular calcium suggesting that both alpha1- and alpha2-adrenoceptors were coupled to pathways which accessed this source of calcium.
Fos expression induced by injection of dilute formalin (50 microl, 5% in physiological saline) into the colonic wall was examined in the myenteric plexus, lumbosacral spinal cord and brainstem of the rat. The aims of this study were (i) to determine whether neurons in these regions express Fos in response to the injection of formalin into the colon and (ii) to examine whether administration of an alpha 2 adrenoceptor agonist modulates Fos expression. Tissues were removed 2 h after the injection of saline or formalin. Saline injected in the colon induced Fos in enteric glia in the myenteric plexus. The number of Fos immunoreactive nuclei significantly increased in both myenteric neurons and enteric glia after the injection of formalin. Similarly, Fos immunoreactive neuronal nuclei were significantly increased in the spinal cord, area postrema and nucleus of the solitary tract after the injection of formalin. Pretreatment of rats with the alpha 2 adrenoceptor agonist xylazine (2, 4 and 8 mg/kg) 15 min before the injection of formalin, dose-dependently reduced the number of Fos immunoreactive neuronal and glial nuclei in the myenteric plexus, and neuronal nuclei in the spinal cord and brainstem. Simultaneous administration of xylazine (8 mg/kg) and the alpha 2 adrenoceptor antagonist yohimbine (1 mg/kg) reversed the effects of xylazine in the spinal cord and brainstem, but not in the myenteric plexus. These data show that injection of formalin in the colonic wall results in Fos expression in myenteric neurons and enteric glia, and neurons in the spinal cord and brainstem. This may be due to the direct chemical stimulation of the innervation of the colon and/or the subsequent acute colitis. The observed neuronal Fos expression can be modulated by an alpha 2 adrenoceptor agonist through noradrenergic pathways and/or reduction of the excitability of the enteric neural circuitry.
Vagal stimulation results in both gastric motor excitatory and non-adrenergic non-cholinergic (NANC) inhibitory responses. The NANC pathway involves preganglionic cholinergic neurons, which act through nicotinic receptors to ultimately evoke gastric smooth muscle relaxation via release of nitric oxide (NO) and other neurotransmitters. Within the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus (DMN), some preganglionic neurons also contain NO synthase. The NO synthase-containing neurons innervate the gastric fundus where adaptive relaxation occurs. This study tests the hypothesis that chemical stimulation of vagal motor neurons in animals, in which nicotinic receptors are blocked, evokes an NO-dependent gastric relaxation. A cell body excitant, N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA, 0.03-3 nmol), was microinjected into the DMN in anesthetized rats while recording intragastric pressure (IgP). The first group received NMDA before and after administration of a ganglionic blocker, hexamethonium bromide (15 mg/kg, i.v.) and atropine (1.0 mg/kg). Significant dose-dependent increases in IgP and gastric motility occurred before hexamethonium after the 0.3 and 3 nmol doses of NMDA. After hexamethonium, 0.3 and 3 nmol NMDA evoked significant decreases in IgP. A second group of rats was hexamethonium-pretreated and received NMDA microinjection into the DMN before and after an NO synthase inhibitor, N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (10 mg/kg, i.v.). The NMDA-evoked decrease in IgP was completely abolished by the NO synthase inhibitor. These data support the novel idea that NO synthase-containing preganglionic neurons mediate gastric relaxation that is independent of nicotinic receptors.
Tyrosine kinase A (TrkA), a high affinity receptor for nerve growth factor (NGF), is activated during differentiation and regeneration of selective neuronal population. We investigated presence, distribution and expression of TrkA in frontal cortex from cases with Alzheimer's disease (AD), normal aging and a variety of conditions (AIDS, cystic fibrosis, cerebral infarcts) in which neuroaxonal dystrophy occurs. TrkA was immunocytochemically detected in 90% of dystrophic neurites surrounding amyloid deposits in normal aging, as well as in all not amyloid-related dystrophic neurites identified by ubiquitin immunoreactivity. Conversely, the amyloid associated dystrophic neurites were not TrkA reactive in AD tissue. The levels of TrkA protein and mRNA in AD frontal cortex did not significantly differ from those of non-demented aged controls. The absence of TrkA activation in amyloid associated neurites in AD, but not in normal aging, indicates a different reaction of neuronal tissue to amyloid (protein (Abeta) deposition, and suggests that other factors, besides Abeta, mediate neuronal degeneration in AD.
Percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG) has been proposed as symptomatic treatment of dysphagia in patients with ALS. Safety and factors related to survival after PEG were analyzed in 50 consecutive ALS patients. No major acute or long-term complications were observed. Stabilization or increase in weight were observed after PEG. Median survival after PEG was 185 days, with a worse outcome in patients with weight loss &gt; or =10% healthy body weight and forced vital capacity &lt;65%. PEG may be a useful option in the symptomatic treatment of dysphagia in ALS.


Retinal ganglion cell axons and axonal electrical activity have been considered essential for migration, proliferation, and survival of oligodendrocyte lineage cells in the optic nerve. To define axonal requirements during oligodendrogenesis, the developmental appearance of oligodendrocyte progenitors and oligodendrocytes were compared between normal and transected optic nerves. In the absence of viable axons, oligodendrocyte precursors migrated along the length of the nerve and subsequently multiplied and differentiated into myelin basic protein-positive oligodendrocytes at similar densities and with similar temporal and spatial patterns as in control nerves. Since transected optic nerves failed to grow radially, the number of oligodendrocyte lineage cells was reduced compared with control nerves. However, the mitotic indices of progenitors and the percentage of oligodendrocytes undergoing programmed cell death were similar in control and transected optic nerves. Oligodendrocytes lacked their normal longitudinal orientation, developed fewer, shorter processes, and failed to form myelin in the transected nerves. These data indicate that normal densities of oligodendrocytes can develop in the absence of viable retinal ganglion axons, and support the possibility that axons assure their own myelination by regulating the number of myelin internodes formed by individual oligodendrocytes.

This experiment was designed to investigate the hypothesis that single small dosages of lithium (1.5 mEq/kg), the muscarinic agent pilocarpine (15 mg/kg) and spinal cord emulsion encourage perivascular infiltration of lymphocytes into the brain even when overt symptoms of experimental allergic encephalomyelitis are not apparent. The brains of rats that had received this small dosage of lithium and pilocarpine exhibited discernable infiltrations of lymphocytes within limbic tracts but no discernable neuronal loss. Although the brains of the rats that displayed overt seizures following larger dosages of lithium (3 mEq/kg) and pilocarpine (30 mg/kg) exhibited the usual pattern of neuronal loss within multiple thalamic and limbic structures and conspicuous foci of lymphocytic infiltration (particularly within the hippocampal formation) the correlation between the numbers of foci and the proportions of neuronal damage in these structures was not significant statistically. These results indicate that infiltrations of lymphocytes into brain parenchyma are not simple artifacts of the amount of neuronal damage and may be sensitive toxicological markers for subclinical interactions between drugs and immune responses.
Noradrenergic locus coeruleus (LC) efferents to the forebrain suppress seizures in several models of epilepsy. Using in situ hybridization, we demonstrate that tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and norepinephrine transporter (NET) but not vesicular monoamine transporter 2 (VMAT2) mRNA levels are transiently elevated in LC neurons following kainic acid-induced status epilepticus. These increases of TH and NET mRNAs and presumably of the proteins themselves might enhance synthesis and reuptake of NE postictally.
Nitric oxide (NO) is an important vasodilator with various activities in the cerebral vasculature. Although the response of NO levels to shear stress has been investigated in various models using systemic endothelium, no study has evaluated human cerebral endothelial cells (HCE). We determined the NO levels of HCE cultured in an artificial capillary system in response to changes in shear stress. With direct measurement by a porphyrinic microsensor, we found that NO levels increased immediately with a peak at 7 h after changes in shear stress, and by 24 h dropped to a constant elevated baseline. Shear stress-mediated increases in NO levels were confirmed by the measurement of citrulline, an indirect measure of NO. Furthermore, NO levels by HCE were shown to decrease with decreasing shear stress levels. This study presents a novel system to study NO production by microvascular HCE, and indicates a linear relationship between shear stress and NO levels. As cerebral vessels age and lose transmural compliance, shear stress-mediated production of NO may play a greater role in cerebrovascular function and dysfunction.
Blood-brain barrier (BBB) disruption is thought to play a critical role in the pathophysiology of ischemia/reperfusion. Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are a family of proteolytic enzymes that can degrade all the components of the extracellular matrix when they are activated. Gelatinase A (MMP-2) and gelatinase B (MMP-9) are able to digest the endothelial basal lamina, which plays a major role in maintaining BBB impermeability. The present study examined the expression and activation of gelatinases before and after transient focal cerebral ischemia (FCI) in mice. Adult male CD1 mice were subjected to 60 min FCI and reperfusion. Zymography was performed from 1 to 23 h after reperfusion using the protein extraction method with detergent extraction and affinity-support purification. MMP-9 expression was also examined by both immunohistochemistry and Western blot analysis, and tissue inhibitors to metalloproteinase-1 was measured by reverse zymography. The BBB opening was evaluated by the Evans blue extravasation method. The 88-kDa activated MMP-9 was absent from the control specimens, while it appeared 3 h after transient ischemia by zymography. At this time point, the BBB permeability alteration was detected in the ischemic brain. Both pro-MMP-9 (96 kDa) and pro-MMP-2 (72 kDa) were seen in the control specimens, and were markedly increased after FCI. A significant induction of MMP-9 was confirmed by both immunohistochemistry and Western blot analysis. The early appearance of activated MMP-9, associated with evidence of BBB permeability alteration, suggests that activation of MMP-9 contributes to the early formation of vasogenic edema after transient FCI.
Volume expansion-sensing outward rectifier (VSOR) anion channel, also referred to as volume-sensitive organic osmolyte-anion channel (VSOAC), appears to be responsible for cell swelling-induced amino acid release in a variety of cells. One prominent feature of the VSOR/VSOAC is that non-hydrolyzed intracellular ATP binding to the channel or an accessory protein is required for its activation. In this study, the effect of intracellular ATP depletion on the swelling-induced release of D-[3H]aspartate from rat primary astrocyte cultures due to exposure to either high K(+) or hypotonic media was studied. When the cells were pretreated for 10 min with a combination of the metabolic inhibitors 2-deoxyglucose and rotenone, 100 mM K(+) media- or hypotonic media-induced D-[3H]aspartate release was completely suppressed. Added separately, each inhibitor showed only partial or no inhibition of D-[3H]aspartate release, which correlated with its relative effectiveness in decreasing intracellular ATP levels. These data are consistent with the view that during high [K(+)](o) or hypotonic media-induced swelling of primary astrocyte cultures an ATP-dependent swelling-activated VSOAC channel is responsible for D-[3H]aspartate release and close to normal ATP is required for full channel activation.

The VPAC(2) (vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP)(2)) receptor is a seven-transmembrane spanning G protein-coupled receptor which responds similarly to VIP and pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide (PACAP) in stimulating cAMP production. Recently, we reported the localisation of the human VPAC(2) receptor gene (VIPR2) to chromosome 7q36.3 (Mackay, M. et al. (1996) Genomics 37, 345-353). Here, we describe the characterisation of the VIPR2 gene structure and promoter region. The VIPR2 gene is encoded by 13 exons, the initiator codon of the 438 amino acid open reading frame is located in exon 1 and the termination signal and a poly-adenylation signal sequence are located in exon 13. The 5' untranslated region extends 187 bp upstream of the initiator codon and is extremely GC-rich (80%). The poly-adenylation signal is located 2416 bp downstream of the stop codon. Intron sizes range from 68 bp (intron 11) to 45 kb (intron 4) and the human gene spans 117 kb.
Liver mitochondrial bioenergetics of Goto-Kakizaki (GK) rats (a model of non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus) reveals a Delta Psi upon energization with succinate significantly increased relatively to control animals. The repolarization rate following ADP phosphorylation is also significantly increased in GK mitochondria in parallel with increased ATPase activity. The increase in the repolarization rate and ATPase activity is presumably related to an improved efficiency of F(0)F(1)-ATPase, either from a better phosphorylative energy coupling or as a consequence of an enlarged number of catalytic units. Titrations with oligomycin indicate that diabetic GK liver mitochondria require excess oligomycin pulses to completely abolish phosphorylation, relative to control mitochondria. Therefore, accepting that the number of operational ATP synthase units is inversely proportional to the amount of added oligomycin, it is concluded that liver mitochondria of diabetic GK rats are provided with extra catalytic units relative to control mitochondria of normal rats. Other tissues (kidney, brain and skeletal muscle) were evaluated for the same bioenergetic parameters, confirming that this feature is exclusive to liver from diabetic GK rats.
The protein-tyrosine phosphatase PTP-1B is an important regulator of intracellular protein tyrosine phosphorylation, and is itself regulated by phosphorylation. We report that PTP-1B and its yeast analog, YPTP, are phosphorylated and activated by members of the CLK family of dual specificity kinases. CLK1 and CLK2 phosphorylation of PTP-1B in vitro activated the phosphatase activity approximately 3-5-fold using either p-nitrophenol phosphate, or tyrosine-phosphorylated myelin basic protein as substrates. Co-expression of CLK1 or CLK2 with PTP-1B in HEK 293 cells led to a 2-fold stimulation of phosphatase activity in vivo. Phosphorylation of PTP-1B at Ser(50) by CLK1 or CLK2 is responsible for its enzymatic activation. These findings suggest that phosphorylation at Ser(50) by serine threonine kinases may regulate the activation of PTP-1B in vivo. We also show that CLK1 and CLK2 phosphorylate and activate the S. cerevisiae PTP-1B family member, YPTP1. CLK1 phosphorylation of YPTP1 led to a 3-fold stimulation of phosphatase activity in vitro. We demonstrate that CLK phosphorylation of Ser(83) on YPTP1 is responsible for the activation of this enzyme. These findings demonstrate that the CLK kinases activate PTP-1B family members, and this phosphatase may be an important cellular target for CLK action.
After injection of horseradish peroxidase (HRP) into the pelvic nerve of the rat, a small number of HRP-labeled axon terminals were found in the gracile nucleus. Double labeling experiments were also performed: Fluoro-Gold (FG) was injected into the pelvic nerve, while cholera toxin B subunit (CTb) was injected into the gracile nucleus or dorsal faciculus at the fifth and sixth cervical cord segments ipsilateral to the FG injection. About 5% of FG-labeled neurons were labeled with CTb in the L6-, S1- and S2-dorsal root ganglia ipsilateral to the tracer injection. The results suggest that some primary afferent information from pelvic visceral organs may be directly conveyed to gracile nucleus by the primary afferent neurons.
We have studied the effect of altered thiol status on brain mitochondrial complex I activity. Exposure of mouse brain slices to diethyl maleate resulted in significant loss in complex I activity with concomitant loss of thiol antioxidant, glutathione. However, incubation of mitochondria isolated from diethyl maleate treated slices with dithiothreitol completely regenerated activity of complex I. Incubation of mouse brain slices with iodoacetic acid, a thiol modifier, also resulted in inhibition of complex I activity, which was reversed by glutathione. The present study demonstrates sensitivity of complex I to thiol modifying agents. Reversal of this inhibition by thiol reductants indicates that secondary oxidation of thiol groups in complex I as a consequence of thiol modification is responsible for the loss in activity.
Extracellular dopamine and noradrenaline concentrations in the medial prefrontal cortex were determined using online microdialysis in freely moving rats during classical appetitive or aversive conditioning to a contextual conditioned stimulus (CS). As CS we used placement in a Skinner box where either foot shocks or food pellets were delivered as unconditioned stimuli. In the aversive conditioning group we observed a conditioned increase in noradrenaline, but not in dopamine release, upon a final exposure to CS-alone. Other conditioned effects were possibly masked by the continued presence of novelty and handling effects of the transfer to the Skinner box.
Alzheimer's disease and other degenerative disorders--dementia with Lewy bodies, frontotemporal dementia, etc.--causing about 90% of dementias in advanced age, are a major health problem of increasing practical, scientific, and socio-economic importance. Despite considerable progress in genetic, clinical and basic neurosciences, the aetiology and molecular mechanisms of these disorders are still unknown and their early diagnosis, due to lack of specific biomarkers, is still unsatisfactory. The epidemiology, risk factors, clinical and morphological diagnostic criteria, probable pathogenic factors, and molecular genetics of the major types of degenerative dementias are reviewed. Their management involves several pharmacologic, non-pharmacologic and psychosocial options. Modification of the disease by reducing known and presumable risk factors, cognitive enhancement with cholinomimetic drugs, and reduction of behavioural abnormalities with psychotropic drugs, together with informed community and private management are currently achievable goals that will serve to delay the progression of disease. In the future, these options will hopefully be replaced by more effective management strategies in order to improve the quality of life of both, patients and caregivers.
The history of psychiatric research is filled with widely accepted etiologic and pathophysiologic theories that eventually were proven wrong. The prevailing pathophysiologic theories of schizophrenia have emphasized the role of abnormal neurodevelopment in determining the onset and course of the illness. Relatively little attention has been paid to the role of neurodegenerative processes despite the clinical course of the illness and the fact that most patients experience varying degrees of behavioral and cognitive deterioration. This is partially due to the absence of clear histologic evidence of neurodegeneration, but may also be due to the narrow traditional conception of neurodegeneration that is generally employed. This article suggests that the rejection of a role for neurodegeneration in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia is unproven and may be premature. A wholly neurodevelopmental perspective of the illness imbues the illness with a pessimistic inevitability and therapeutic nihilism that may be unwarranted. This article reviews selectively a diverse body of evidence that is consistent with the hypothesis that schizophrenia involves a limited neurodegenerative process reflected by the psychotic symptoms and that is most active in the early stages of the illness. The evidence for this hypothesis comes from studies of premorbid status, illness course, symptomatology and treatment effects as well as neuroimaging and postmortem findings. Recent results from the latter interpreted in the context of molecular neurobiology suggest new pathophysiologic models.
One hundred years ago, in 1897, Sherrington adopted the name synapse. However, the concept of the synapse emerged from considerations of how muscles are contracted and so locomotion affected over a period of 2400 years, from the time of Plato and Aristotle in the 4th century BC to the early part of the 20th century. This early history is considered in the present review. In terms of duration of influence, the early history was dominated by Aristotle's concept of vital pneuma. This was derived from the ether which filled all space, taken in by the lungs, transformed to vital pneuma in the heart, and then conducted in the blood stream to be transmitted to muscles. The vital pneuma then initiated the final phase of the muscle's psyche, that is, its contraction leading to locomotion. Aristotle's ideas had to be modified with the discovery by Galen and his students in the 2nd and 3rd centuries AD that nerves arising from the brain and spinal cord are necessary for the initiation of muscle contraction. They modified the Aristotlean account so that the vital pneuma delivered by blood vessels to the brain was converted there to psychic pneuma, from whence it was conducted along nerves to be transmitted to muscle, so allowing the muscle to contract. There matters rested for about 1300 years until Descartes. Descartes rejected the idea of organs and muscles possessing a psyche with a final cause that was released by the conduction and transmission of psychic pneuma in nerves, emphasising that mechanical explanations must be sought when determining the function of an organ or muscle. He argued in his corpuscular theory that fine particles derived from the blood in the brain, which he gave the unfortunate name of animal spirits, were conducted and transmitted along nerves to enter muscle during transmission, so leading to the increase in width of the muscle fibres, their shortening and contraction. This description was elaborated on in great detail by Descartes, and by his contemporary Borelli, in the 17th century. In the 18th century, Swammerdam carried out a series of brilliant experiments that showed that the Descartes/Borelli theory could not be correct, muscles did not change their volume during contraction, and so could not be contracted by being swollen due to an influx of the corpuscles that made up the animal spirits. These results were published at about the time of the birth of Galvani (1737), whose work was to show that animal spirits were not corpuscular but electrical. The triumph of 19th century physiology, primarily due to Matteucci, du Bois-Reymond and Helmholtz, was to take Galvani's discoveries and show that nerves possessed a potential across their walls that could give rise to a propagating transient potential change which was transmitted to muscles with a finite velocity. Although Sherrington refined the concept and adopted the word &quot;synapse&quot; at the end of that century, it was not until the early part of the 20th century that a conceptual scheme for the synapse involving transmitters and receptors was developed. This clearly delineated a new period following the early history of synaptic transmission.
Telomeres in yeast are late replicating. Genes placed next to telomeres in yeast can be repressed (telomere positional effects), leading to the hypothesis that telomeres may be heterochromatic and may control the expression of subtelomeric genes. In addition, yeast telomeres are processed to have a transient long overhang at the end of S phase. The applicability of the yeast data to human biology was examined by determining the timing of telomere replication and processing in normal human diploid fibroblasts. Telomeres were purified from synchronized cells that had been labeled with 5-bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) at hourly intervals, and the fraction of labeled telomeres was analyzed by retrieval with anti-BrdU antibodies. We determined that normal human telomeres replicate throughout S phase rather than being very late replicating. Furthermore, the overall timing of replication was unaffected by telomere length in young versus old cells or cells whose telomeres had been elongated following transfection with the catalytic subunit of telomerase. Finally, the asymmetry in the length of the G-rich overhang in daughter telomeres produced by leading versus lagging strand synthesis was shown to be established within 1 h of telomere replication, indicating there is no significant delay between synthesis and the processing events that contribute to the establishment of asymmetric overhangs. Therefore, the timings of replication and processing of human telomeres are very different from those of yeast.

It is now clear that astroglial cells actively contribute to both the generation and flow of information within the central nervous system. In the hypothalamus, astrocytes regulate the secretory activity of neuroendocrine neurons. A small subset of these neurons secrete luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH), a neuropeptide essential for sexual development and adult reproductive function. Astrocytes stimulate LHRH secretion via cell-cell signaling mechanisms involving growth factors recognized by receptors with either serine/threonine or tyrosine kinase activity. Two members of the epidermal growth factor (EGF) family and their respective tyrosine kinase receptors appear to play key roles in this regulatory process. Transforming growth factor-alpha (TGFalpha) and its distant congeners, the neuregulins (NRGs), are produced in hypothalamic astrocytes. They stimulate LHRH secretion indirectly, via activation of erbB-1/erbB-2 and erbB-4/erbB-2 receptor complexes also located on astrocytes. Activation of these receptors leads to release of prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)), which then binds to specific receptors on LHRH neurons to elicit LHRH secretion. Gonadal steroids facilitate this glia-to-neuron communication process by acting at three different steps along the signaling pathway. They (a) increase astrocytic gene expression of at least one of the EGF-related ligands (TGFalpha), (b) increase expression of at least two of the receptors (erbB-4 and erbB-2), and (c) enhance the LHRH response to PGE(2) by up-regulating in LHRH neurons the expression of specific PGE(2) receptor isoforms. Focal overexpression of TGFalpha in either the median eminence or preoptic area of the hypothalamus accelerates puberty. Conversely, blockade of either TGFalpha or NRG hypothalamic actions delays the process. Thus, both TGFalpha and NRGs appear to be physiological components of the central neuroendocrine mechanism controlling the initiation of female puberty. By facilitating growth factor signaling pathways in the hypothalamus, ovarian steroids accelerate the pace and progression of the pubertal process.
This special issue on steroids and glia represents the intersection of two emerging themes in the neurosciences: (a) Glia actively modulate and participate in brain function throughout life, and (b) glia are sensitive to steroid hormones. This overview begins by reviewing some of the basic principles of steroid hormone action on the brain and introducing the various glia that inhabit the peripheral and central nervous system. A prominent theme among the articles that follow is that glia may be direct targets for steroid hormones since they possess steroid receptors and the promoter region of glial-specific genes such as glutamine synthetase contain hormone-responsive elements. The articles in this special issue discuss evidence that glia may mediate steroid action on the nervous system in the context of (a) steroid metabolism, which may control the hormonal microenvironment of neurons both in the normal and injured brain; (b) brain development including sexual differentiation; (c) synaptic plasticity which may underlie the cyclic release of luteinizing hormone releasing hormone in the female rodent brain; (d) neural repair and aging; and (e) brain immune function. Another theme among these articles is that glia influence neurons via specific secreted and cell-surface molecules, and that steroids affect this mode of communication by altering the level of glial production of these signaling molecules and/or the sensitivity of neurons to such signals.
A 43-year-old woman is reported who developed acute and later chronic graft-versus-host disease following an unrelated donor bone marrow transplantation for chronic myeloid leukaemia. Four years later, she developed a sensory multiple mononeuropathy with biopsy features of chronic vasculitis. This is the first report of vasculitic neuropathy in association with graft-versus-host disease.
Recent experiments in our laboratory have revealed a genetic correlation of the sensitivity of inbred mouse strains to different assays of nociception using noxious heat stimuli. An open question is whether the property of the noxious stimulus underlying the genetic correlation is heat specifically or simply a temperature (hot or cold) in the noxious range. The existing electrophysiological, psychophysical, neurochemical, and functional imaging literatures regarding the relationship of heat pain and cold pain are quite contentious, with a number of similarities and dissociations being documented. In the present study, we tested 12 inbred mouse strains (129/J, A/J, AKR/J, BALB/cJ, C3H/HeJ, C57BL/6J, C57BL/10J, C58/J, CBA/J, DBA/2J, RIIIS/J, and SM/J) for their reflexive withdrawal sensitivity to immersion of the tail in hot (47. 5 degrees C) and cold (-15 degrees C) water and compared the observed latencies with those obtained previously, using a 49 degrees C stimulus. All three traits displayed substantial heritabilities, ranging from 0.41 to 0.50. Strain means on these nociceptive traits displayed a high degree of cross-correlation (r = 0.49-0.77). Genetic correlation of hot and cold nociception implies that similar genes underlie interindividual variability in both traits in mice and further suggests that these nociceptive types share physiological mediation. This finding is discussed in relation to existing data in other mammals including humans.
The aim of this study was to determine whether axonal transport of activating transcription factor-2 (ATF2) occurs in adult sensory neurons, and whether this process is under neurotrophin control. Antisera to both total ATF2 and to the activated (i.e., phosphorylated) form were used for immunocytochemistry and Western blotting. ATF2 was localized to predominantly nociceptive dorsal root ganglion cells in adult rats and shown to accumulate proximal and distal to a sciatic nerve ligature as a result of axonal transport. Subcutaneous injection of nerve growth factor (NGF) decreased the levels of fast retrograde axonal transport of activated ATF2 by 97% (p &lt; 0.05) and elevated levels of retrograde axonal transport of total ATF2 by twofold (p &lt; 0.02). In contrast, blocking endogenous NGF using an anti-NGF antibody induced an elevation in retrograde axonal transport of activated ATF2 of 4. 5-fold (p &lt; 0.05) and decreased retrograde axonal transport of total ATF2 by 72% (p &lt; 0.05). NGF or anti-NGF treatment had no effect on the anterograde transport levels of total or activated ATF2. This study shows that signaling by target-derived NGF to the cell bodies of sensory neurons consists, in part, of the modulation of levels and activation status of a retrogradely transported transcription factor, ATF2.
gamma (30-100 Hz) and beta (10-30 Hz) oscillations follow tetanic stimulation in the CA1 region of the rat hippocampal slice. Pyramidal neurons undergo a slow depolarization after the tetanus and generate synchronous action potentials. The slow depolarization was previously attributed to metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) activation. However, we found that this event was mediated by GABA(A) receptors, being blocked by bicuculline (50 microM) and accompanied by a dramatic drop in input resistance. Experiments with NMDA and non-NMDA glutamate receptor antagonists revealed that fast synaptic excitation was not necessary for oscillations. IPSPs were strongly depressed during the oscillations. Instead, synchronization was caused by field effects, as shown by: (1) Action potentials of pyramidal neurons proximal (&lt;200 micrometer) to the stimulation site were often preceded by negative deflections of the intracellular potential that masked a net transmembrane depolarization caused by the population spike. (2) Pyramidal neurons located on the surface of the slice, where field effects are weak, fired repetitively but were not synchronized to the network activity. (3) A moderate decrease (50 mOsm) in artificial CSF (ACSF) osmolality did not affect the slow depolarization but increased oscillation amplitude and duration and recruited previously silent neurons into oscillations. (4) 50 mOsm increase in ACSF osmolality dramatically reduced, or abolished, post-tetanic oscillations. Phasic IPSPs, not detectable in proximal neurons, were present, late in the oscillation, in cells located 200-400 micrometer from the stimulation site and possibly contributed to slowing the rhythm during the gamma to beta transition.
Lactating females express rapid extremes in behavior, ranging from gentle nurturance toward offspring to fiercely protective aggression against intruders. Although males often behave aggressively against intruders, female rodents usually express aggression only when rearing and protecting pups. Nitric oxide (NO) inhibits male aggression; however, its role in maternal aggression is unknown. In the present study, female mice with targeted disruption of the neuronal nitric oxide synthase gene (nNOS-/-) displayed significant deficits in maternal aggression relative to wild-type (WT) mice in terms of percentage displaying aggression, the average number of attacks against a male intruder, and the total time spent attacking the male intruder. The nNOS-/- mice displayed normal pup retrieval behavior. Because the specific deficits in maternal aggression in the nNOS-/- mice suggested a possible role for NO in maternal aggression, we combined behavioral testing of WT mice with immunohistochemistry for citrulline, an indirect marker of NO synthesis, to examine indirectly NO synthesis during maternal aggression. A significant increase in the number of citrulline-positive cells was identified in the medial preoptic nucleus, the suprachiasmatic nucleus, and the subparaventricular zone regions of the hypothalamus in aggressive lactating females relative to control mice. In other regions of the brain, no changes in the number of citrulline-positive cells were observed across either groups or treatments. These results provide two indirect lines of evidence that NO release is associated with maternal aggression.
Neurotrophins acting at the trkB receptor have been shown to be important modulators of activity-dependent plasticity in the hippocampus, but the mechanisms underlying these effects are not yet well understood. To identify the cellular and subcellular targets of trkB ligands in the adult rat hippocampal formation, full-length trkB receptor immunoreactivity (trkB-IR) was localized using electron microscopy. trkB-IR was present in the glutamatergic pyramidal and granule cells. Labeling in these neurons appeared as discrete clusters and was primarily in axons, excitatory-type axon terminals, and dendritic spines and to a lesser extent in somata and dendritic shafts. trkB-IR was commonly found on the plasma membrane of dendritic spines, whereas in other subcellular regions trkB-IR was often intracellular. Labeling was strikingly dense within axon initial segments, suggesting extensive receptor trafficking. trkB-IR was not confined to pyramidal and granule cells. Dense trkB-IR was found in occasional interneuron axon initial segments, some axon terminals forming inhibitory-type synapses onto somata and dendritic shafts, and excitatory-type terminals likely to originate extrahippocampally. This suggests that trkB is contained in some GABAergic interneurons, neuromodulatory (e.g., cholinergic, dopaminergic, and noradrenergic) afferents, and/or glutamatergic afferents. These data indicate that full-length trkB receptor activation may modulate glutamatergic pathways of the trisynaptic circuit both presynaptically at axon terminals and initial segments and postsynaptically at dendritic spines and shafts. Signaling via catalytic trkB may also presynaptically affect inhibitory and modulatory neurons. A pan-trkB antibody labeled the same neuronal populations as the full-length-specific trkB antiserum, but the labels differed in density at various subcellular sites. These findings provide an ultrastructural foundation for further examining the mechanisms through which neurotrophins acting at trkB receptors contribute to synaptic plasticity.
The weaver mutation results in the extensive death of midline cerebellar granule cells. The mutation consists of a single base pair substitution of the gene encoding the G-protein-activated inwardly rectifying potassium channel protein, GIRK2. The functional consequences of this mutation are still in dispute. In this study we demonstrate the in vivo and in vitro rescue of weaver granule cells when NR1 NMDA subunits are eliminated in weaver NR1 double mutants. This rescue of weaver granule cells provides evidence that wvGIRK2 alone is not sufficient to cause granule cell death.
To understand better how spontaneous motoneuron activity and intramuscular nerve branching influence motoneuron survival, we chronically treated chicken embryos in ovo with either d-tubocurarine (dTC) or muscimol during the naturally occurring cell death period, assessing their effects on activity by in ovo motility measurement and muscle nerve recordings from isolated spinal cord preparations. Because muscimol, a GABA(A) agonist, blocked both spontaneous motoneuron bursting and that elicited by descending input but did not rescue motoneurons, we conclude that spontaneous bursting activity is not required for the process of normal motoneuron cell death. dTC, which rescues motoneurons and blocks neuromuscular transmission, blocked neither spontaneous nor descending input-elicited bursting and early in the cell death period actually increased burst amplitude. These changes in motoneuron activation could alter the uptake of trophic molecules or gene transcription via altered patterns of [Ca(2+)](i), which in turn could affect motoneuron survival directly or indirectly by altering intramuscular nerve branching. A good correlation was found between nerve branching and motoneuron survival under various experimental conditions: (1) dTC, but not muscimol, greatly increased branching; (2) the removal of PSA from NCAM partially reversed the effects of dTC on both branching and survival, indicating that branching is a critical variable influencing motoneuron survival; (3) muscimol, applied with dTC, prevented the effect of dTC on survival and motoneuron bursting and, to a large extent, its effect on branching. However, the central effects of dTC also appear to be important, because muscimol, which prevented motoneuron activity in the presence of dTC, also prevented the dTC-induced rescue of motoneurons.
Target-derived neurotrophins initiate signals that begin at nerve terminals and cross long distances to reach the cell bodies and regulate gene expression. Neurotrophin receptors, Trks, themselves serve as retrograde signal carriers. However, it is not yet known whether the retrograde propagation of Trk activation reflects movement of Trk receptors from neurites to cell bodies or reflects serial activation of stationary Trk molecules. Here, we show that neurotrophins selectively applied to distal neurites of sensory neurons rapidly induce phosphorylation of the transcription factor cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) and also cause a slower increase in Fos protein expression. Both nuclear responses require activation of neurotrophin receptors (Trks) at distal nerve endings and retrograde propagation of Trk activation to the nerve cell bodies. Using photobleach and recovery techniques to follow biologically active, green fluorescent protein (GFP)-tagged BDNF receptors (TrkB-GFP) in live cells during retrograde signaling, we show that TrkB-GFP moves rapidly from neurites to the cell bodies. This rapid movement requires ligand binding, Trk kinase activity, and intact axonal microtubules. When they reach the cell bodies, the activated TrkB receptors are in a complex with ligand. Thus, the retrograde propagation of activated TrkB from neurites to cell bodies, although rapid, reflects microtubule-dependent transport of phosphorylated Trk-ligand complexes. Moreover, the relocation of activated Trk receptors from nerve endings to cell bodies is required for nuclear signaling responses. Together, these data support a model of retrograde signaling whereby rapid vesicular transport of ligand-receptor complex from the neurites to the cell bodies mediates the nuclear responses.
Neuropilins have recently been characterized as receptors for secreted semaphorins. Here, we report the generation of a dominant negative form of neuropilin-1 by the deletion of one of its extracellular domains. Expression of this variant in cultured primary sympathetic neurons blocks the paralysis of growth cone motility normally induced by SEMA-3A (collapsin-1, semaphorin III, semaphorin D) and SEMA-3C (collapsin-3, semaphorin E) but not that induced by SEMA-3F (semaphorin IV). A truncated form of neuropilin-1 that is missing its cytoplasmic domain fails to act as a dominant negative receptor component. These results suggest that neuropilin-1 is a necessary component of receptor complexes for some, but not all, secreted semaphorin family members. Overexpression of dominant negative neuropilins should provide a powerful new method of blocking the functions of secreted semaphorins.
p53 is a pivotal molecule regulating the death of neurons both after acute injury and during development. The molecular mechanisms by which p53 induces apoptosis in neuronal cells, however, are not well understood. We have shown previously that adenovirus-mediated p53 gene delivery to neurons was sufficient to induce apoptosis. In the present study we have examined the molecular mechanism by which p53 evokes neuronal cell death. Adenovirus-mediated delivery of p53 to cerebellar granule neurons resulted in caspase-3 (CPP32) activation followed by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated biotinylated UTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) staining and loss of viability as determined by an MTT survival assay. To determine whether Bax is essential for caspase-3 activation, p53 was expressed in Bax-deficient cells. Bax null neurons did not exhibit caspase-3 activation in response to p53 and were protected from apoptosis. To determine whether Bax-dependent caspase-3 activation was required in p53-mediated neuronal cell death, caspase-3-deficient neurons were examined. Our results indicate that caspase-3-deficient neurons exhibit a remarkable delay in apoptosis and a dramatic decrease in TUNEL-positive cells. These studies demonstrate that p53-induced cell death in postmitotic neurons involves a Bax-dependent caspase-3 activation, suggesting that these molecules are important determinants in neuronal cell death after injury.
Polyribosomal complexes are selectively localized beneath postsynaptic sites on neuronal dendrites; this localization suggests that the translation of the mRNAs that are present in dendrites may be regulated by synaptic activity. The present study tests this hypothesis by evaluating whether synaptic activation alters the immunostaining pattern for two proteins whose mRNAs are present in dendrites: the dendrite-specific cytoskeletal protein MAP2 and the alpha-subunit of CAMKII. High-frequency stimulation of the perforant path projections to the dentate gyrus, which terminate in a discrete band on the dendrites of dentate granule cells, produced a two-stage alteration in immunostaining for MAP2 in the dendritic laminae. Five minutes of stimulation (30 trains) caused a decrease in MAP2 immunostaining in the lamina in which the activated synapses terminate. After more prolonged periods of stimulation (1-2 hr), there was an increase in immunostaining in the sideband laminae just proximal and distal to the activated band of synapses. The same stimulation paradigm produced a modest increase in immunostaining for alpha-CAMKII in the activated laminae, with no detectable changes in the sideband laminae. The alterations in immunostaining for MAP2 were diminished, but not eliminated, by inhibiting protein synthesis; the increases in CAMKII were not. These findings reveal that patterned synaptic activity can produce domain-specific alterations in the molecular composition of dendrites; these alterations may be caused in part by local protein synthesis and in part by other mechanisms.
Here, we show that a nitric oxide synthase (NOS) pseudogene is expressed in the CNS of the snail Lymnaea stagnalis. The pseudo-NOS transcript includes a region of significant antisense homology to a previously reported neuronal NOS (nNOS)-encoding mRNA. This suggested that the pseudo-NOS transcript acts as a natural antisense regulator of nNOS protein synthesis. In support of this, we show that both the nNOS-encoding and the pseudo-NOS transcripts are coexpressed in giant identified neurons (the cerebral giant cells) in the cerebral ganglion. Moreover, reverse transcription-PCR experiments on RNA isolated from the CNS establish that stable RNA-RNA duplex molecules do form between the two transcripts in vivo. Using an in vitro translation assay, we further demonstrate that the antisense region of the pseudogene transcript prevents the translation of nNOS protein from the nNOS-encoding mRNA. By analyzing NOS RNA and nNOS protein expression in two different identified neurons, we find that when both the nNOS-encoding and the pseudo-NOS transcripts are present in the same neuron, nNOS enzyme activity is substantially suppressed. Importantly, these results show that a natural antisense mechanism can mediate the translational control of nNOS expression in the Lymnaea CNS. Our findings also suggest that transcribed pseudogenes are not entirely without purpose and are a potential source of a new class of regulatory gene in the nervous system.
The immunotoxin 192 IgG-saporin has a high degree of selectivity for cholinergic neurons within the basal forebrain (CBF). Intracerebroventricular delivery of 192 IgG-saporin results in a diffuse and massive depletion of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activity in projections of the CBF, and non-selective loss of Purkinje cells. To dissociate the basal-cortical and septo-hippocampal cholinergic systems and to minimize non-specific effects, we developed intraparenchymal parameters to deliver 192 IgG-saporin discretely to either the nucleus basalis magnocellularis (NBM) or the medial septum (MS). Intraparenchymal administration of the immunotoxin into the NBM or MS resulted in a dose-dependent depletion of ChAT activity in the corresponding projection areas and a concomitant loss of ChAT immunoreactive neurons in both nuclei. Both lesions were regionally restricted, having a minimal diffusion into adjacent CBF nuclei. Control infusions did not result in non-specific parenchymal damage. In addition, immunotoxic infusions had no effect on monoamine neurotransmitter systems. By optimizing the dosages for both CBF nuclei, we maximized ChAT depletion while minimizing diffusion into the adjacent CBF nuclei. This study delineated injection parameters enabling a selective dissociation of two cholinergic subpopulations in the basal forebrain for further functional characterization.
We report that the neuronal-specific basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) gene NSCL-1 is expressed at multiple and distinct stages of cerebellar granule cell differentiation. During embryonic development, NSCI-1 expression is initially evenly distributed in the cerebellar primordium and then becomes restricted to the ventricular zone. At the early steps of granule cell development, NSCL-1 is not expressed in rhombic lip cells, but instead in migrating granule cell precursors. Its expression culminates during postnatal proliferation of the external germinal layer, and remains only transiently in the newly formed internal granular layer, and at a much lower level. Thus, NSCL-1 expression is linked to the onset of granule cell differentiation, but is not involved in the maintenance of the differentiated state. These findings suggest that NSCL-1 does not behave as a specification factor, but rather as a factor promoting expansion of progenitor external germinal layer (EGL) cells. Gel mobility shift assays show that NSCL-1 only binds DNA as a heterodimeric complex with the ME1a E-protein. We also provide the first evidence that NSCL-1 functions as a transcriptional activator when heterodimerized with the ME1a E-protein. Taken together, these results suggest that NSCL-1 participates in the regulatory network controlling gene expression during cerebellar granule cell differentiation.
Biological systems have very different internal ion compositions in comparison with their surrounding media. The difference is maintained by transport mechanisms across the plasma membrane and by internal stores. On the plasma membrane, we can classify these mechanisms into three types, pumps, porters, and channels. Channels have been extensively studied, particularly since the advent of the patch clamp technique, which opened new windows into ion channel selectivity and dynamics. Pumps, particularly the plasma membrane Ca(2+)-ATPase, and porters are more illusive. The technique described in this paper, the self-referencing, ion-selective (or Seris) probe, has the ability to monitor the behavior of membrane transport mechanisms, such as the pumps and porters, in near to real-time by non-invasively measuring local extracellular ion gradients with high sensitivity and square micron spatial resolution. The principles behind the self-referencing technique are described with an overview of systems utilizing ion, electrochemical and voltage sensors. Each of these sensors employs the simple expedient of increasing the system resolution by self-referencing and, thereby, removing the drift component inherent to all electrodes. The approach is described in detail, as is the manner in which differential voltage measurements can be converted into a flux value. For the calcium selective probes, we can resolve flux values in the low to sub pmol.cm(-2)s(-1) range. Complications in the use of the liquid ion exchange cocktail are discussed. Applications of the calcium selective probe are given, drawing on examples from the plant sciences, developmental biology, muscle physiology, and the neurosciences.
The most prominent afferents impinging upon the noradrenergic neurons of the locus coeruleus (LC) utilize GABA and glutamate. However, peptide neurotransmitters such as galanin, neuropeptide Y, and corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) have also been localized to LC afferents. The evidence for CRF modulation of LC activity was examined in the present studies. Specifically, the impact of local CRF administration on both LC-NE discharge characteristics and release of norepinephrine (NE) in hippocampus was determined. First, the ability of CRF microinfused into the LC area to increase NE efflux in the dorsal hippocampus was determined using in vivo microdialysis techniques in awake rats. CRF into the LC dose-dependently increased extracellular NE in the ipsilateral hippocampus. Second, a more detailed analysis was performed in halothane-anesthetized rats by characterizing the electrophysiological activity of LC-NE neurons in response to local application of CRF. Changes in the firing rate and pattern of single LC-NE neurons were measured while simultaneously monitoring the extracellular level of NE in hippocampus. A dose of 30 ng CRF applied directly into LC via pressure ejection elicited an 88% increase in the discharge rate of LC-NE neurons and increased the incidence of burst firing from 14% to 33%. This manipulation simultaneously increased extracellular NE in hippocampus by 63%. The CRF-induced increases in discharge rate of LC-NE neurons and extracellular NE efflux in hippocampus were prevented by prior i.c.v. administration of the CRF antagonist, d-PheCRF(12-41 )(3 microg / 3 microl). The present findings demonstrate that CRF applied directly into the LC increases both the activity of LC-NE neurons and the release of NE in an LC terminal region. The shift in activity of LC-NE neurons to more burst-like firing in response to CRF may provide a means for enhanced release of NE in LC projection fields. This is the first report to demonstrate a dose-dependent increase in extracellular NE levels evoked by intra-LC infusion of CRF in unanesthetized animals.
Glutamate receptors of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) subtype in the caudate-putamen nucleus (CPN) have been implicated in the adverse motor effects produced by chronic administration of the typical antipsychotic drug haloperidol. To determine the functionally relevant sites, we examined the electron microscopic immunocytochemical localization of the R1 receptor subunit (NMDAR1) in the dorsolateral CPN of rats receiving 4 months of biweekly depot intramuscular injections of either haloperidol or vehicle. In all animals, NMDAR1 immunoreactivity was seen mainly in dendritic spines, but was also present in a few somata and dendrites of spiny neurons, axon terminals, and glia. In comparison with controls, the dissector stereological analysis showed a significant reduction in the numerical density of total NMDAR1-labeled and unlabeled dendritic spines in the dorsolateral CPN after haloperidol administration. When labeled spines were identified separately based exclusively on the presence of immunoreactivity within a single plane of section, there was, however, a significant increase in the numerical density of NMDAR1-containing spines in haloperidol vs. control animals. This increase was not seen using a classic dissector, suggesting that the enhancement was mainly attributed to more frequent detection of spines having higher levels of NMDA immunoreactivity. Our results are the first to identify dendritic spines in the dorsolateral CPN as preferential sites for the regulated expression of NMDA receptors following chronic administration of haloperidol.


Type 1A CMT disease is most commonly due to a segmental duplication on chromosome 17p11.2, leading to the presence of an extra copy of the gene for peripheral myelin protein 22 (PMP22). Inheritance is autosomal dominant in pattern. Analysis of nerve biopsies suggests that the disorder is caused by increased gene dosage. Occasionally CMTIA results from point mutations in the PMP22 gene. Onset of symptoms in cases with a duplication is usually in the first decade of life; slowing of nerve conduction velocity is evident from the age of 2 years. Active demyelination is restricted to childhood. It leads to hypertrophic &quot;onion bulb&quot; changes and is accompanied and followed by progressive axonal loss. The commonest clinical phenotype is the CMT syndrome with distal muscle wasting and weakness, tendon areflexia, usually mild sensory loss, and foot deformity. Other phenotypes include the Roussy-Lvy syndrome, in which postural tremor and ataxia are associated, and cases with severe distal sensory loss and acrodystrophic changes.
The effects of normal aging on the primate brain are incompletely understood. Although both human and nonhuman primates demonstrate clear functional declines in selective attention, &quot;executive&quot; functions, and some components of declarative memory with aging, most studies have failed to demonstrate extensive neuronal atrophy or loss as a substrate for these degenerative changes in primates. In particular, extensive age-related neuronal loss in memory-related brain regions such as the hippocampus and entorhinal cortex has not been found. However, it is possible that neuronal loss or atrophy might occur in subcortical nuclei that modulate the activity of neocortical regions, thereby accounting for altered cognitive function with aging. In the present study, we describe, to our knowledge for the first time, a significant and extensive decline in the number and size of immunolabeled neurons in subcortical cholinergic basal forebrain regions of aged rhesus monkeys, the best animal model of human aging, by using stereological methods. Notably, the loss of subcortical cholinergic neuronal markers in aged monkeys was nearly completely reversed by human nerve growth factor gene delivery. These findings (i) identify reversible cellular atrophy as a potential mechanism contributing to age-related cognitive decline in primates, (ii) suggest, when considered with other studies, that subcortical brain regions exhibit greater vulnerability to the effects of aging than cortical regions, and (iii) indicate that neurotrophin gene transfer may be an effective means of preventing neuronal atrophy or degeneration in age-related neurodegenerative disorders.
The localization of orexin neuropeptides in the lateral hypothalamus has focused interest on their role in ingestion. The orexigenic neurones in the lateral hypothalamus, however, project widely in the brain, and thus the physiological role of orexins is likely to be complex. Here we describe an investigation of the action of orexin A in modulating the arousal state of rats by using a combination of tissue localization and electrophysiological and behavioral techniques. We show that the brain region receiving the densest innervation from orexinergic nerves is the locus coeruleus, a key modulator of attentional state, where application of orexin A increases cell firing of intrinsic noradrenergic neurones. Orexin A increases arousal and locomotor activity and modulates neuroendocrine function. The data suggest that orexin A plays an important role in orchestrating the sleep-wake cycle.
Estrogen is known to influence different functions in brain tissue ranging from neuronal development to plasticity and survival, but the mechanisms involved have not been defined clearly. Previous studies have shown the presence of the two estrogen receptors (ERs), ERalpha and ERbeta, in several brain areas, but less is known about the role of estrogen in the peripheral nervous system. Here we demonstrate that dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons express ERalpha and ERbeta during early postnatal development and in culture, and that the ERs localize mainly to neuronal cell nuclei. Studying the role of estrogen in DRG, we observed that low concentrations of 17beta-estradiol increased survival of cultured DRG neurons deprived of nerve growth factor. 17beta-Estradiol up-regulated the expression of the antiapoptotic molecule Bcl-x without affecting that of Bax, suggesting a mechanism by which the hormone counteracted neuronal death. Antiestrogens abolished the action of 17beta-estradiol in the DRG neurons, which demonstrates an involvement of ERs. The results show that estrogen and ERs play an important role in the development and survival of DRG neurons.
The patch compartments of the caudate-putamen nucleus (CPN) are enriched in mu-opioid receptors (MORs) and have been recently implicated in reward-related behaviors. This function has been established more clearly in the nucleus accumbens, where physiological and anatomical studies show reward-associated interactions involving MORs and N-methyl-D-aspartate-type glutamate receptors (NMDARs). We examined the immunolabeling for MOR and NMDAR subunit NR1 in patches of the rat CPN to determine the potential relevance of dual activation of the respective receptors. Electron microscopy showed the presence of MOR and/or NR1 immunoreactivity (IR) in many perikarya, dendrites, and spines and in morphologically heterogeneous axon terminals. In each 1,000-microm(2) area, the dually labeled dendrites and spines constituted 65% (37/57) and 37% (9/25) of the total NR1-labeled and 34% (37/109) and 13% (9/71) of the total MOR-labeled dendritic profiles. Dually labeled spines received asymmetric excitatory-type synapses from terminals, which were generally unlabeled, but also occasionally contained MOR and/or NR1. The asymmetric synapses comprised the majority (81%) of the total 263 synaptic contacts between MOR- and NR1-labeled neuronal profiles. In dendrites and spines, MOR-IR was localized mainly along nonsynaptic plasma membranes, whereas NR1-IR was more often associated with asymmetric postsynaptic densities and cytoplasmic organelles. In contrast to dendrites, 6% (1.3/22) of NR1-IR and 4% (1.3/33) of MOR-IR axon terminals were dually labeled in each 1,000-microm(2) area. Most singly or dually labeled terminals formed asymmetric synapses with MOR- or NR1-labeled spines. Our results suggest that opioids acting through MOR and excitatory neurotransmitters through NMDAR dually regulate the output of single spiny neurons and some of their excitatory afferents in the CPN.
Retrograde axonal transport of cholera toxin B subunit (CTB) was used to compare the development of intracortical and thalamocortical connections in normal rats with those in rats in which all of the whiskers were trimmed continuously from birth. In normal animals, injections of CTB into a single barrel column resulted in an asymmetrical labeling of cells that were distributed preferentially within columns related to the same row in which the injection was placed. This anisotropy in the patterns of intracortical connections was not observed in whisker-clipped animals. In these animals, there was a significant reduction in the mean number of labeled cells in the infragranular layers, and labeled cells were distributed symmetrically around the injection site. The same injections of CTB also labeled thalamocortical neurons in the ventrobasal thalamus. Analysis of the distribution of these cells revealed that, in both control and experimental animals, the vast majority of labeled cells were restricted to a homologous (i.e., corresponding to the injected cortical barrel) thalamic barreloid. These findings indicate that manipulations of sensory experience alter patterns of intracortical, but not thalamocortical, connections.
Previous studies on the mediobasal hypothalamus (MBH) of rats, rhesus monkeys and goats have detected episodic increases in multiunit activity (MUA volleys) which immediately precede a pulse of luteinizing hormone (LH). These volleys are considered to reflect the activity of the gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) pulse generator. Our understanding of this system would be greatly enhanced if it were possible to study the electrophysiological aspects of this system at the single cell level; such an approach requires anesthesia of the animals (as in the classic studies on the oxytocin and vasopressin systems). Although it is widely held that anesthetic agents disrupt the processes regulating LH release, little is known about their specific effects on the dynamics of this system. Using on-line electrophysiological techniques in addition to subsequent radioimmunoassay for LH, we have found that anesthesia by ketamine is compatible with the continued production of MUA volleys and LH pulses in gonadectomized rats. In contrast to the hypothermia induced by the LH pulse-suppressing anesthetic sodium pentobarbitone, a small rise in core temperature occurs following ketamine. The present findings offer the prospect of detailed electrophysiological analysis of GnRH pulse generator activity in rats maintained under general anesthesia.
The excitotoxic effects of the glutamate receptor agonists kainic acid (KA) and 2-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate (AMPA) and the corresponding neuroprotective effects of the AMPA/KA receptor antagonist 2,3-dihydroxy-6-nitro-7-sulfamoyl-benzo(F)quinoxaline (NBQX) were examined in corticostriatal slice cultures. The purpose was to examine the feasibility of these cultures for excitotoxic studies, and to demonstrate possible differential excitotoxic effects of KA and AMPA on striatal and cortical neurons. Slices of dorsolateral striatum with overlying neocortex were obtained from neonatal rats and grown on semiporous membranes in serum-free medium for 3-4 weeks before exposure to KA or AMPA for 48 h. The uptake by injured cells of the fluorescent dye propidium iodide (PI) added to the culture medium was used as a quantifiable measure for neuronal degeneration and compared with efflux of the cytosolic enzyme lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) into the culture medium and loss of glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) activity in the tissue. Histological sections were also stained by the fluorescent dye Fluoro-Jade (FJ), for degenerating neurons and by immunocytochemical staining for gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA). Digitized images showed a dose (0-24 microM KA, 0-6 microM AMPA) and time (0-48 h) dependent increase in PI uptake in both striatum and cortex. In other cultures exposed to KA (24 microM) or AMPA (6 microM) together with NBQX (0.1-9 microM), NBQX was found to exert a differential neuroprotective effect on striatum and cortex at low doses. NBQX was thus more protective against KA in the cortex than in the striatum, while the opposite was seen in relation to AMPA. Regarding neurodegenerative markers, PI uptake was significantly correlated with (1) LDH release into the culture medium, (2) optical density of Fluoro-Jade staining, (3) loss of GAD-activity in tissue homogenates, and (4) loss of GABA-immunostained neurons. We conclude that both differences between compounds (AMPA vs. KA) and brain areas (striatum vs. cortex) can be demonstrated in corticostriatal slice cultures, which in conjunction with an established set of markers for neuronal cell damage appears to be a feasible model for studies of the neurotoxic and neuroprotective effects of glutamate receptor agonists and antagonists.


Site-directed mutagenesis of the human 5-HT1B receptor was performed to investigate the role of the amino acid residues cysteine 326 and tryptophan 327 in transmembrane region VI and aspartic acid 352 in transmembrane region VII in ligand binding. Binding studies were performed with the antagonist radioligand [3H]GR125743 on mutant and wild-type receptors stably expressed in Chinese hamster ovary cells (CHO)-K1 cells. Substitution of tryptophan 327 by alanine resulted in decreased affinities of all ligands tested. The most prominent changes in affinity were observed for the antagonist methiothepin and the antimigraine drug sumatriptan, which were reduced approximately 300- and 60-fold, respectively. Nevertheless, the affinity of 5-HT remained the same. Replacement of the aspartic acid 352 by alanine reduced high-affinity binding of 5-HT. Substitution of cysteine 326 by alanine had minor effects on ligand binding. Some of these results agree with the results from mutagenesis studies of the corresponding amino acids in other receptors. However, some notable differences also emerge showing that functional roles of individual amino acid residues must be tested experimentally in each receptor subtype.
(RS)-2-Amino-3-(5-tert-butyl-3-hydroxy-4-isoxazolyl)propionic acid (ATPA), an analogue of (RS)-2-amino-3-(3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolyl)propionic acid (AMPA). has previously been shown to be a relatively weak AMPA receptor agonist and a very potent agonist at the GluR5 subtype of kainic acid-preferring (S)-glutamic acid ((S)-Glu) receptors. We report here the separation of (+)- and (-)-ATPA, obtained at high enantiomeric purity (enantiomeric excess values of 99.8% and &gt; 99.8%, respectively) using chiral chromatography, and the unequivocal assignment of the stereochemistry of (S)-(+)-ATPA and (R)-(-)-ATPA. (S)- and (R)-ATPA were characterized in receptor binding studies using rat brain membranes, and electrophysiologically using the rat cortical wedge preparation and cloned AMPA-preferring (GluR1, GluR3, and GluR4) and kainic acid-preferring (GluR5, GluR6, and GluR6 + KA2) receptors expressed in Xenopus oocytes. In the cortical wedge, (S)-ATPA showed AMPA receptor agonist effects (EC50 = 23 microM) approximately twice as potent as those of ATPA. (R)-ATPA antagonized depolarizations induced by AMPA (Ki = 253 microM) and by (S)-ATPA (Ki = 376 microM), and (R)-ATPA antagonized the biphasic depolarizing effects induced by kainic acid (Ki = 301 microM and 1115 microM). At cloned AMPA receptors, (S)-ATPA showed agonist effects at GluR3 and GluR4 with EC50 values of approximately 8 microM and at GluR1 (EC50 = 22 microM), producing maximal steady state currents only 5.4-33% of those evoked by kainic acid. (R)-ATPA antagonized currents evoked by kainic acid at cloned AMPA receptor subtypes with Ki values of 33-75 microM. (S)-ATPA produced potent agonist effects at GluR5 (EC50 = 0.48 microM). Due to desensitization of GluR5 receptors, which could not be fully prevented by treatment with concanavalin A, (S)-ATPA-induced agonist effects were normalized to those of kainic acid. Under these circumstances, maximal currents produced by (S)-ATPA and kainic acid were not significantly different. (R)-ATPA did not attenuate currents produced by kainic acid at GluR5, and neither (S)- nor (R)-ATPA showed significant effects at GluR6. (S)-ATPA as well as AMPA showed weak agonist effects at heteromeric GluR6 + KA2 receptors, whereas (R)-ATPA was inactive. Thus, (S)- and (R)-ATPA may be useful tools for mechanistic studies of ionotropic non-NMDA (S)-Glu receptors, and lead structures for the design of new subtype-selective ligands for such receptors.
Exocytosis of synaptic vesicles is calcium-dependent, with synaptotagmin serving as the calcium sensor. Endocytosis of synaptic vesicles has also been postulated as a calcium-dependent process; however, an endocytic calcium sensor has not been found. We now report a physical association between the calcium-dependent phosphatase calcineurin and dynamin 1, a component of the synaptic endocytic machinery. The calcineurin-dynamin 1 interaction is calcium-dependent, with an EC(50) for calcium in the range of 0.1-0. 4 microM. Disruption of the calcineurin-dynamin 1 interaction inhibits clathrin-mediated endocytosis. Thus, the calcium-dependent formation of the calcineurin-dynamin 1 complex, delivered to the other endocytic coat proteins, provides a calcium-sensing mechanism that facilitates endocytosis.
The localization of pheromone receptors in the rat vomeronasal epithelium was examined by light- and electron-microscopic immunocytochemical analysis, using affinity-purified polyclonal antibodies. The antibodies were raised against a synthetic oligopeptide corresponding to a partial sequence of the rat putative pheromone receptor (VN6). Positive immunoreactivity was observed on the luminal surface of the sensory epithelium, and was abolished when an excess of the antigen peptide was added to the primary reaction solution. On electron microscopy, the immunoreactivity for the VN6 peptide was localized at the dendritic knobs and microvilli of receptor cells, but not in those of the supporting cells. These results show the first evidence of cellular localization of putative pheromone receptors in rat vomeronasal receptor cells.
The abrupt elevation in the levels of cyclooxygenase or lipoxygenase metabolites of arachidonic acid during cerebral ischemia contributes to neuronal injury. Recently, evidence has accumulated that both excitotoxic and apoptotic features can coexist in ischemia models in vitro and in vivo. In this study, we evaluated whether phenidone, an inhibitor of both cyclooxygenase and lipoxygenase, can provide protection against excitotoxin- or ischemia-induced neurotoxicity, including the staurosporine apoptosis model, in mouse cortical cultures. We examined the protective effect of phenidone against free radical injuries induced by arachidonic acid, hydrogen peroxide, xanthine/xanthine oxidase, Fe2+/ascorbic acid. Pre- and post-treatment with phenidone (300 microM for 24 h) moderately attenuated the neuronal injury induced by 50 microM kainate and oxygen/glucose deprivation (45 min) by 33% and 50%, respectively. It had no effect on NMDA induced injury (150 microM for 5 min). The maximum dose of phenidone (300 microM) reduced the oxidative injury induced by arachidonic acid (71% inhibition), hydrogen peroxide (95% inhibition), xanthine/xanthine oxidase (57% inhibition), and Fe2+/ascorbic acid (99% inhibition) neurotoxicity. Phenidone (300 microM) decreased staurosporine (100 nM)-induced apoptosis to 30%. These results suggest that phenidone may contribute to neuronal survival by modulating oxidative stress, which is involved in the excitotoxic and apoptotic processes occurring under ischemic conditions.
The cyclic expression of the period (PER) and timeless (TIM) proteins is critical for the molecular circadian feedback loop in Drosophila. The entrainment by light of the circadian clock is mediated by a reduction in TIM levels. To elucidate the mechanism of this process, the sensitivity of TIM regulation by light was tested in an in vitro assay with inhibitors of candidate proteolytic pathways. The data suggested that TIM is degraded through a ubiquitin-proteasome mechanism. In addition, in cultures from third-instar larvae, TIM degradation was blocked specifically by inhibitors of proteasome activity. Degradation appeared to be preceded by tyrosine phosphorylation. Finally, TIM was ubiquitinated in response to light in cultured cells.
In the wake of evidence that essential neurogenic processes might involve aspects of DNA rearrangement, recent discoveries about the unusual arrangement of genes encoding neuronal adhesion molecules known as protocadherins are very intriguing. But is this just a coincidence?
Positron emission tomography (PET) was used to investigate cerebral organization in seven subjects who had Mandarin Chinese as their native language (L1), and learned English (L2) later in life. When activation from word repetition was subtracted from verb generation in L1 and L2, CBF increases were observed for both languages in left inferior frontal, dorsolateral frontal, temporal and parietal cortices, and right cerebellum. Direct comparison of the difference between verb generation and word repetition in L1 and L2 revealed no significant differences. Within-subject analysis of verb generation minus word repetition yielded CBF increases in left frontal cortex for all individuals for L1 and L2, and a comparison of differences yielded no spatial separation in frontal peaks. We argue for shared neural substrates even for such contrasting languages as Mandarin and English.
Using riboprobe in situ hybridization we have studied the distribution of alpha2A-, alpha2B- and alpha2c-adrenoceptor (AR) mRNAs in the lumbar spinal cord in normal rats and after peripheral axotomy. A strong alpha2A- and alpha2C AR mRNA labelling was found in motoneurons and other cells in the ventral horns. In the dorsal horns strong alpha2A-AR mRNA labelling was found in all layers and in the lateral spinal nucleus, whereas alpha2C-AR mRNA was found in lower numbers of cells in various layers. The alpha2B-AR mRNA signal was only detected in some small cells superficially in the dorsal horn. With regard to axotomy only a marginal effect was observed for alpha2C-AR mRNA in the ventral horn. The results suggest that alpha2-ARs are involved both in sensory and motor processing.
Using in situ hybridization the regulation of mRNA encoding the galanin receptor R1 was investigated in the mutant Brattelboro (diabetes insipidus) rat. We here report an increase of the galanin receptor R1 mRNA levels in the hypothalamic supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei of the mutant strains. The increase seemed to be confined to magnocellular neurons, since no changes were detected in galanin receptor R1 mRNA levels in the extra-hypothalamic nucleus of the olfactory tract. The results confirm that osmotic stimulation induces up-regulation of galanin receptor R1 mRNA levels. This may increase the sensitivity to galanin peptide, the endogenous ligand for this receptor.
Exposure to an acute stressor of intermittent tail-shocks enhances acquisition of the classically conditioned eyeblink response and the enhancement is dependent on NMDA receptor activation in the basolateral nucleus of the amygdala. In the present study, multiple units (spikes/s) were recorded from the basolateral amygdala in response to the stressor of intermittent tailshocks (thirty, 1 mA, 1 s, 1/min) and upon re-exposure to the context in which the stress was administered. Exposure to the stressor suppressed multiple unit activity in the basolateral/lateral amygdala (67% of baseline) which, in some cases, persisted for 48 h after stressor cessation. Re-exposure to the stressful context reactivated the suppression in unit activity (69% of baseline). In a second experiment, it was determined that the stress-induced suppression of neuronal activity was prevented by NMDA receptor antagonism during stressor exposure. It is proposed that the stress-induced suppression of background unit activity enhances the neural representation of environmental cues by enhancing their signal/background noise ratio and thereby facilitates the formation of associations between those cues.
The subependymal zone (SEZ) of the adult mammalian forebrain contains a population of progenitor cells that proliferate in response to brain injury. This study examined the effect of cortical injury on metabolic activity in the SEZ using quantitative histochemistry of cytochrome oxidase. The SEZ showed significantly enhanced cytochrome oxidase activity in rats with electrolytic cortical injuries relative to sham-operated controls, while other brain regions showed no such changes. The results indicate that the SEZ had increased oxidative energy demands, and thus provide metabolic evidence that SEZ cells are activated in response to brain injury.
Neuron-restrictive silencer factor (NRSF), also known as repressor element RE1 binding transcription factor (REST) or repressor binding to the X2 box (XBR) (REST/NRSF/XBR), is a zinc finger transcription factor that during early embryogenesis is required to repress a subset of neuron-specific genes in non-neural tissues and undifferentiated neural precursors. We have previously shown that splicing within the coding region of rat REST/NRSF/XBR (rREST) generates several different transcripts all of which are expressed in the adult nervous system. rREST transcripts with short neuron-specific exons (exon N) have in-frame stop codons and encode truncated proteins which have an N-terminal repressor domain and weakened DNA binding activity. The aim of this study was to analyze the regulatory mechanisms underlying REST/NRSF/XBR activity in human and mouse as compared to rat. We show that the structure of REST/NRSF/XBR gene and its regulation by neuron-specific splicing is conserved in human, mouse and rat. Expression levels of REST/NRSF/XBR transcripts with the insertion of exon N are increased during the neuronal differentiation of mouse teratocarcinoma PCC7 and rat pheocromocytoma PC12 cells and are high in several human and mouse neuroblastoma cells as compared to the relatively low levels in the developing and adult nervous system. The exclusive expression of the neuronal forms of REST/NRSF/XBR mRNAs in mouse neuroblastoma Neuro-2A cells is not caused by rearrangement of the REST/NRSF/XBR gene nor by mutations in the sequence of the splice sites flanking exon N. These data suggest that changes in REST/NRSF/XBR splicing pattern may result from altered levels of splicing factors reflecting the formation and/or progression of neuroblastoma tumors.
Expression of mRNAs for neuropeptide Y (NPY) and its receptor subtypes Y1 (Y1-R), Y2 (Y2-R) and Y5 (Y5-R) was studied in adult rat brain using in situ hybridization after 40 rapidly recurring seizures induced with 5-min interval by hippocampal kindling stimulations. At 2-4 h post-seizure, NPY mRNA levels were markedly elevated in dentate granule cells, CA1 and CA3 pyramidal layers, amygdala and piriform and entorhinal cortices. Gene expression had returned to control level in the dentate granule cell layer at 48 h but remained high in the other areas, reaching baseline at 1 week. Transient decreases of Y1-R mRNA levels were detected at 2-4 h in hippocampal subregions, amygdala, piriform, entorhinal and somatosensory cortices. The Y2-R mRNA levels were reduced at 2-4 h in the CA3 region and piriform cortex, but exhibited marked increases at 48 h and 1 week post-seizure in the dentate gyrus, amygdala and piriform and entorhinal cortices. At 3 weeks, Y2-R mRNA expression had virtually returned to baseline. Elevated Y5-R mRNA levels were only detected at 2-4 h and confined to dentate granule cell layer and piriform and entorhinal cortices. These results demonstrate a cell- and region-specific, differential regulation of mRNA expression for NPY and Y1-R, Y2-R, and Y5-R in the limbic system following recurring seizures. Because the gene changes were transient, it seems unlikely that the presumed alterations of the corresponding proteins are involved in the maintenance of the epileptic syndrome, which develops up to 4 weeks post-seizure in the present model and is stable thereafter. Our data provide further support for the hypothesis that the changes of NPY and its receptors act to dampen seizure susceptibility, and suggest that the cascade of gene changes is orchestrated to optimize this anticonvulsant effect.
Nanomechanical properties of biological fibers are governed by the morphological features and chemically heterogeneous constituent subunits. However, very little experimental data exist for nanoscale correlation between heterogeneous subunits and their mechanical properties. We have used keratin-rich wool fibers as a model of composite biological fibers; a wool fiber is a simple two component cylindrical system consisting of a core cellular component surrounded by an outer cell layer and their ultrastructure and chemical composition are well-characterized. The core is 16-40 micrometer in diameter and rich in axially aligned keratin microfibrils. Outer cells have multiple laminar layers, 60-600 nm thick and distinctly rich in disulfide bonds. We used an atomic force microscope (AFM) to examine the nanomechanical properties of various structural components using complementary techniques of force-volume imaging and nano-indentation. AFM images of transverse sections of fibers were obtained in ambient environment, and the mechanical properties of several identified regions were examined. The outer cell layer showed a significantly higher mechanical stiffness than the internal cellular core region. Chemical reduction of disulfide bonds eliminated such dichotomy of mechanical strengths, indicating that the higher rigidity of the outer layer is attributed primarily to the presence of extensive disulfide bonding in the exo-cuticle. This is the first detailed correlative study of nano-indentation and regional elasticity measurements in composite biological systems, including mammalian biological fibers.

Rapid orientating movements of the eyes are believed to be controlled ballistically. The mechanism underlying this control is thought to involve a comparison between the desired displacement of the eye and an estimate of its actual position (obtained from the integration of the eye velocity signal). This study shows, however, that under certain circumstances fast gaze movements may be controlled quite differently and may involve mechanisms which use visual information to guide movements prospectively. Subjects were required to make large gaze shifts in yaw towards a target whose location and motion were unknown prior to movement onset. Six of those tested demonstrated remarkable accuracy when making gaze shifts towards a target that appeared during their ongoing movement. In fact their level of accuracy was not significantly different from that shown when they performed a 'remembered' gaze shift to a known stationary target (F3,15 = 0.15, p &gt; 0.05). The lack of a stereotypical relationship between the skew of the gaze velocity profile and movement duration indicates that on-line modifications were being made. It is suggested that a fast route from the retina to the superior colliculus could account for this behaviour and that models of oculomotor control need to be updated.
The conformational restriction of a (benzylamino)methyl substituted pyrrolidine to form 2,7-diazabicyclo[3.3.0]octanes has led to a series of compounds with high affinity at the h5-HT1D receptor as well as dramatically increased concentrations in the hepatic portal vein following oral administration.
This study investigated the function of the adhesion molecule L1 in unmyelinated fibers of the peripheral nervous system (PNS) by analysis of L1- deficient mice. We demonstrate that L1 is present on axons and Schwann cells of sensory unmyelinated fibers, but only on Schwann cells of sympathetic unmyelinated fibers. In L1-deficient sensory nerves, Schwann cells formed but failed to retain normal axonal ensheathment. L1-deficient mice had reduced sensory function and loss of unmyelinated axons, while sympathetic unmyelinated axons appeared normal. In nerve transplant studies, loss of axonal-L1, but not Schwann cell-L1, reproduced the L1-deficient phenotype. These data establish that heterophilic axonal-L1 interactions mediate adhesion between unmyelinated sensory axons and Schwann cells, stabilize the polarization of Schwann cell surface membranes, and mediate a trophic effect that assures axonal survival.
This report examines the development of the dopaminergic system in the primary antennosensory centres (antennal lobes) of the brain of the honey bee, Apis mellifera, and the effects of dopamine on neurite outgrowth of antennal-lobe neurons in vitro. Antibodies raised against dopamine were used to follow the development of a small population of dopamine-immunoreactive neurons that invade the antennal lobes during metamorphic adult development. Immunopositive somata associated with the antennal lobes were first detected at stage 2 of the nine stages of metamorphic adult development, but processes of these neurons within the antennal-lobe neuropil did not exhibit immunostaining until pupal stage 3. Severe depletion of primary sensory input to the right antennal lobe early in metamorphic adult development or removal of the right antenna from newly emerged bees did not alter the expression of dopamine immunoreactivity in the antennal-lobe neuropil. The presence of dopamine in developing antennal lobes was confirmed by using high performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection. Levels of dopamine were significantly higher at pupal stage 4 than at all other stages examined. This surge in dopamine levels coincided with rapid growth and compartmentalisation of the antennal-lobe neuropil. Exogenously applied dopamine (50 microM) enhanced the growth of antennal-lobe neurons in vitro, but only in cells derived from pupae at stage 5 of metamorphic adult development. The early appearance of dopamine-immunoreactive neurons and the effects of dopamine on stage 5 antennal-lobe neurons in vitro support the view that dopamine plays a role in the developing brain of the honey bee.
Synaptosomal-associated protein of 25 kDa (SNAP-25) is involved in the molecular regulation of neurotransmitter release. SNAP-25 exists in two isoforms, SNAP-25a and SNAP-25b, which arise from alternate splicing and which are differentially expressed throughout the nervous system. In situ hybridization was used to examine the presence and subcellular localization of SNAP-25a and SNAP-25b RNA transcript expression in motor and parasympathetic nuclei associated with cranial nerves. SNAP-25a RNA transcripts were strongly expressed in the parasympathetic Edinger-Westphal nucleus and dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus nerve but weakly expressed in motor nuclei such as the oculomotor, trochlear, trigeminal, facial, ambiguus, hypoglossal and accessory nuclei and in motoneurons of mouse lumbar spinal cord. In contrast, SNAP-25b RNA transcripts were not detectable in the Edinger-Westphal nucleus and dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus nerve but were strongly expressed in the oculomotor, trochlear, trigeminal, facial, ambiguus, hypoglossal, and accessory nuclei and in the motoneurons of mouse lumbar spinal cord. In the parasympathetic cranial nerve nuclei, displaying high levels of SNAP-25a RNA transcripts, the labeling was cytoplasmic, whereas the labeling was nuclear in the cranial nerve motor nuclei, displaying lower levels of transcripts. In contrast, labeling of SNAP-25b RNA transcripts was cytoplasmic in cranial nerve motor nuclei and not detectable in parasympathetic cranial nerve nuclei. Possible explanations for the region-specific and differential subcellular localization of SNAP-25a and SNAP-25b RNA transcripts are discussed.
Of the different types of synaptic contacts with the mammalian spinal motoneuron, the synapse made by the cholinergic, so-called C-terminal of unknown origin and function has special morphological characteristics. Thus, in this synapse, there is no postsynaptic density but rather a large subsynaptic cistern in the motoneuron. To see whether this particular arrangement imposes special demands on the transmitter release machinery, we examined the presence of nerve terminal proteins in the C-terminal by using immunohistochemistry. Cholinergic nerve fibers and terminals in the spinal cord ventral horn were identified with an antiserum to the vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT) protein. Immunohistochemistry in combination with confocal laser microscopy showed the presence of synaptosomal-associated protein of 25 kDa (SNAP-25)-, syntaxin-, cysteine string protein (CSP)-, synuclein-, synapsin I-, synapsin I/II-, synaptotagmin I-, synaptotagmin I/II-, synaptophysin-, and synaptobrevin-2-like immunoreactivity (-LI) in VAChT-containing C-terminals. Synaptotagmin III and synaptobrevin 1 could not be demonstrated in this type of terminal. VAChT-containing varicosities in the Renshaw cell area, with a probable origin from motoneuron axon collaterals, exhibited CSP, synapsin I/II, and synaptobrevin-1-LI, but not SNAP-25-, syntaxin-, synuclein-, synapsin I-, synaptotagmin I-, synaptotagmin I/II-, synaptophysin- and synaptobrevin-2-LI. The results suggest a differential content of nerve terminal proteins and their isoforms in cholinergic C-terminals apposing motoneurons and in the Renshaw cell area. It is concluded that C-terminals contain synaptic proteins necessary for fast transmitter release, and their origin should not be the motoneurons themselves.
Neuronal precursor proliferation and axodendritic outgrowth have been traditionally regarded as discrete and sequential developmental stages. However, we recently found that sympathetic neuroblasts in vitro often elaborate long neuritic processes before dividing. Furthermore, these &quot;paramitotic&quot; neurites were maintained during cell division and neuritic morphology was consistently preserved by daughter cells after mitosis. This inheritance of neuritic morphology in vitro raised the possibility that proliferating neuroblasts engage in axodendritic outgrowth. To determine whether mitotic superior cervical ganglion (SCG) neuroblasts are engaged in pathfinding in vivo, we have combined retrograde axonal tracing of efferent nerve trunks with bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) labeling of cells in S-phase. In fact, about 13% of BrdU(+) cells were retrogradely labeled, indicating that mitotic neuroblasts often have extraganglionic axonal projections. Moreover, the presence of axons during S-phase was observed at two developmental ages (E15.5 and E16. 5), implicating an ongoing function of paramitotic axons during neuronal ontogeny. Using a calculation to account for experimental limitations, we estimate that virtually all mitotic SCG neuroblasts have direct access to extraganglionic signals during development. We conclude that mitotic neuronal precursors in vivo engage in pathfinding, raising the possibility that interaction of proliferating populations with distant signals actively coordinates cell division and neural connectivity.
Members of the transforming growth factor-beta superfamily, including bone morphogenetic protein 4 (BMP-4), have been implicated as regulators of neuronal and glial differentiation. To test for a possible role of BMP-4 in early mammalian neural specification, we examined its effect on neurogenesis in aggregate cultures of mouse embryonic stem (ES) cells. Compared to control aggregates, in which up to 20% of the cells acquired immunoreactivity for the neuron-specific antibody TuJ1, aggregates maintained for 8 days in serum-free medium containing BMP-4 generated 5- to 10-fold fewer neurons. The action of BMP-4 was dose dependent and restricted to the fifth through eighth day in suspension. In addition to the reduction in neurons, we observed that ES cell cultures exposed to BMP-4 contained fewer cells that were immunoreactive for glial fibrillary acidic protein or the HNK-1 neural antigen. Furthermore, under phase contrast, cultures prepared from BMP-4-treated aggregates contained a significant proportion of nonneuronal cells with a characteristic flat, elongated morphology. These cells were immunoreactive for antibodies to the intermediate filament protein vimentin; they were rare or absent in control cultures. Treatment with BMP-4 enhanced the expression of the early mesodermal genes brachyury and tbx6 but had relatively little effect on total cell number or cell death. Coapplication of the BMP-4 antagonist noggin counteracted the effect of exogenous BMP-4, but noggin alone had no effect on neuralization in either the absence or presence of retinoids. Collectively, our results suggest that BMP-4 can overcome the neuralizing action of retinoic acid to enhance mesodermal differentiation of murine ES cells.
Sleep deprivation leads to cognitive impairments in humans and, if sustained for 2-3 weeks in rats, it is invariably fatal. It has been suggested that neural activity associated with waking, if it is not interrupted by periods of sleep, may damage brain cells through excitotoxic or oxidative mechanisms and eventually lead to cell death. To determine whether sustained waking causes brain cell degeneration, three parallel strategies were used. The presence and extent of DNA fragmentation was analyzed with the TUNEL technique on brain sections from rats sleep deprived for various periods of time (from 8 h to 14 days) and from their respective controls. Adjacent sections from the same animals were stained with a newly developed fluorochrome (Fluoro-Jade) specific for degenerating neurons. Finally, total RNA from the cerebral cortex of the same animals was used to determine whether the expression of several stress response genes and apoptosis-related genes is modified after sustained waking. In most long-term sleep deprived rats only a few scattered TUNEL positive nuclei (1-3) were found in any given brain section. The overall number, distribution, and morphology of TUNEL positive cells in long-term sleep deprived rats did not differ significantly from yoked controls, short-term sleep deprived rats, and sleep controls. No evidence of degenerating neurons as detected by Fluoro-Jade was found in any experimental group. mRNA levels of all the stress response genes and apoptosis-related genes tested did not differ between long-term sleep deprived rats and their yoked controls. These results argue against the hypothesis that sustained waking can significantly damage brain cells through excitotoxic or oxidative mechanisms and that massive cell death may explain the fatal consequences of sleep deprivation.
The central neurochemical and neuroendocrine effects of a psychogenic (ferret exposure) and a neurogenic (restraint) stressor were assessed in rats that had been selectively bred for differences in amygdala excitability manifested by either Fast or Slow amygdala kindling epileptogenesis. While these rat lines differ in their emotionality, their behavioral styles were dependent on the nature of the stressor to which they were exposed. During restraint, the Slow rats were mostly immobile, while Fast rats persistently struggled. In contrast, Fast rats were more immobile in response to the ferret. Yet, the more emotional Slow rats exhibited a greater corticosterone response to the ferret, while comparable corticosterone responses between lines were evident following restraint. Although both stressors influenced norepinephrine (NE), dopamine (DA) and/or serotonin (5-HT) activity in brain regions typically associated with stressors (e.g., locus coeruleus, paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, nucleus accumbens, prefrontal cortex), considerable amine alterations were evident in the medial and basolateral amygdala nuclei, but not in the central nucleus. Moreover, greater NE changes were apparent in the medial amygdala of the left hemisphere. Similarly, DA alterations also were greater in the left medial amygdala in response to stressors. Despite very different behavioral styles, however, the two lines often exhibited similar amine alterations in response to both stressors.

Vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) gene expression is highly restricted throughout the neuroaxis and regulated by extracellular factors that activate tyrosine- or serine/threonine-directed protein kinase pathways. Cytokine, cyclic AMP, and tissue-specific response elements on the VIP gene have been characterized. Those mediating responsiveness to protein kinase C have not. The endogenous VIP gene and a 5.2-kilobase pair (kb) VIP-luciferase reporter gene, are up-regulated by phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) in SK-N-SH neuroblastoma cells. PMA stimulation was abolished by deletion of sequences at -1.37 to -1.28 or -1.28 to -0.904 kb, but not by removal of the single phorbol ester response element (TRE; TGACTCA) located at -2.25 kb. Mutation of sites at -1.32 or -1.20 that mediate neurotrophin responsiveness of the VIP gene (Symes, A., Lewis, S., Corpus, L., Rajan, P., Hyman, S. E., and Fink, J. S. (1994) Mol. Endocrinol. 8, 1750-1763) each reduced PMA induction in SK-N-SH cells by &gt;50%, and double mutation abolished it. The two mutations also reduced basal VIP reporter gene transcription in SH-EP neuroblastoma cells expressing VIP constitutively. Both cis-active elements bound pre-existing AP-1 proteins in SH-EP- or PMA-stimulated SK-N-SH cell nuclear extracts. The AP-1 complex at both sites contained a Fos-related protein with c-Jun in SH-EP cells and c-Fos with a Jun-related protein in SK-N-SH cells. Recruitment of combinatorially distinct AP-1 complexes to these elements may underlie cell type-specific regulation of the VIP gene.




We have immunohistochemically analyzed the marbled state in 8 cases of perinatal hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy and 4 cases of infantile hypoxic encephalopathy, using antibodies against calbindin-D28k (CaBD), glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), methionine-enkephalin (MEnk), myelin basic protein (MBP), neurofilament (NF), parvalbumin (PV), substance-P (SuP) and synaptophysin (SP). The marbled state was found in the thalamus in 11 cases, whose age at death was over 10 years. Four cases demonstrated the marbled state in the cerebral cortex, in addition to the striatum and/or the thalamus. The abnormally myelinated fibers in the marbled state were stained with both Kluver-Barrera and Holzer stainings; however, they were partly immunopositive for MBP and completely immunonegative for GFAP, CaBD, MEnk, PV, SuP and SP, although some of the neurons and/or fibers showed immunoreactivities for those calcium-binding proteins and/or neurotransmitters. The axons were visualized in the abnormally myelinated fibers by Bodian staining and/or anti-NF immunostainings in the cerebral cortex and striatum but not in the thalamus. GFAP-positive astrocytes did not show any continuity with the abnormally myelinated fibers. These histological features were seen in the cerebral cortex, striatum and thalamus. Difference of the etiology did not affect the histological features with the exception of anti-PV staining, in which PV-immunopositive neurons were observed only in aged subjects with infantile hypoxic encephalopathy, and seemed to be more severely affected by hypoxic stress during the perinatal period than the early infantile period. These data suggest that the site of lesion or the length of survival period after brain injury might influence the formation of the marbled state rather than the etiology. And the direct relationship between the abnormally myelinated fiber and astrocytic process was not verified.
Specific phobias are not usually treated unless they are disabling. Behavioural therapy is the treatment of choice for disabling specific phobias. Pharmacotherapy is generally not considered to be effective in specific phobias, and is therefore not used for this indication. However, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors have been reported to be effective in various anxiety disorders, and may be effective in specific phobias as well. This case report describes the successful treatment of phobia of storms with fluvoxamine in an 11-year-old boy. Fluvoxamine and other selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors may be a suitable option for treatment of disabling cases of specific phobia when behavioural therapy is not feasible for various reasons.

Simpson-Golabi-Behmel syndrome (SGBS) is an X-linked overgrowth syndrome with associated visceral and skeletal abnormalities. Alterations in the glypican-3 gene (GPC3), which is located on Xq26, have been implicated in the etiology of relatively milder cases of this disorder. Not all individuals with SGBS have demonstrated disruptions of the GPC3 locus, which raises the possibility that other loci on the X chromosome could be responsible for some cases of this syndrome. We have previously described a large family with a severe form of SGBS that is characterized by multiple anomalies, hydrops fetalis, and death within the first 8 wk of life. Using 25 simple tandem-repeat polymorphism markers spanning the X chromosome, we have localized the gene for this disorder to an approximately 6-Mb region of Xp22, with a maximum LOD score of 3.31 and with LOD scores &lt;-2.0 for all of Xq. These results demonstrate that neither the GPC3 gene nor other genes on Xq26 are responsible for all cases of SGBS and that a second SGBS locus resides on Xp22.
Numerous post mortem studies have demonstrated increased accumulation of lipid peroxidation products in diseased regions of Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain; however, few have used techniques that quantify the magnitude of lipid peroxidation in vivo. F(2)-isoprostanes (F(2)-IsoP's) are exclusive products of free radical-mediated peroxidation of arachidonic acid, and their quantification has been widely used as an in vivo biomarker of the magnitude of lipid peroxidation. We have determined F(2)-IsoP concentrations in lateral ventricular fluid (VF) from 23 AD and 12 age-matched controls and correlated these with neuropathological and genetic markers of AD. VF F(2)-IsoP levels were significantly elevated in AD patients compared with controls (p &lt; 0.01) and were significantly correlated with three different measures of brain degeneration: reduction in brain weight (p &lt; 0.01), degree of cortical atrophy (p &lt; 0.01), and Braak stage (p = 0.02). When analysis was restricted to AD patients only, VF F(2)-IsoP levels still were significantly correlated to reduction in brain weight and degree of cortical atrophy (p &lt; 0.05). VF F(2)-IsoP concentrations were not related to density of neuritic plaques or neurofibrillary tangles in seven brain regions, or to the number of epsilon4 alleles of the apolipoprotein E gene (APOE). These data suggest that the magnitude of brain lipid peroxidation is closely related to the extent of brain degeneration in AD but is not significantly influenced by the density of neuritic plaques or neurofibrillary tangles, or the number of epsilon4 alleles of APOE.
In a previous study, we reported that vestibular nerve stimulation in the cat elicits a specific pattern of sympathetic nerve activation, such that responses are particularly large in the renal nerve. This patterning of vestibulosympathetic reflexes was the same in anesthetized and decerebrate preparations. In the present study, we report that inputs from skin and muscle also elicit a specific patterning of sympathetic outflow, which is distinct from that produced by vestibular stimulation. Renal, superior mesenteric, and lumbar colonic nerves respond most strongly to forelimb and hindlimb nerve stimulation (approximately 60% of maximal nerve activation), whereas external carotid and hypogastric nerves were least sensitive to these inputs (approximately 20% of maximal nerve activation). In contrast to vestibulosympathetic reflexes, the expression of responses to skin and muscle afferent activation differs in decerebrate and anesthetized animals. In baroreceptor-intact animals, somatosympathetic responses were strongly attenuated (to &lt;20% of control in every nerve) by increasing blood pressure levels to &gt;150 mmHg. These findings demonstrate that different types of somatic inputs elicit specific patterns of sympathetic nerve activation, presumably generated through distinct neural circuits.
The differential effects of CCK and lipopolysaccharide (LPS) on sucrose intake and palatability were examined. Rats were injected with LPS (200 microg/kg ip) or NaCl (0.9%, vehicle) and 2 h later received a second injection of either CCK (8 microg/kg ip) or NaCl. In experiment 1, sucrose (0.3 M) intake was monitored for 1 h on three different test days 72 h apart, while in experiment 2, palatability was assessed by means of the taste reactivity test (TRT) on two separate days (72 h apart). In the TRT, orofacial and somatic responses to brief (30 s) intraoral infusions of sucrose were recorded and analyzed for response frequency. Singly, LPS and CCK reduced sucrose intake, with a more pronounced effect from combined LPS and CCK. LPS by itself did not alter sucrose palatability, as evidenced by continuous high levels of ingestive responding. In contrast, CCK-treated rats displayed a pattern of responding indicative of satiety, as did the combined LPS-CCK-treated rats. These results suggest that LPS does not induce hypophagia by altering palatability.


Nitric oxide (NO) is an important endogenous regulatory molecule implicated in both proinflammatory and antiinflammatory processes in the lung. Previously, we demonstrated that in human alveolar macrophages (AM), NO decreased inflammatory cytokine production, including that of interleukin-1beta, tumor necrosis factor-alpha and macrophage inflammatory protein-1alpha. One mechanism by which NO could regulate such diverse cytokine production is through effects on the transcription factor nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB), which controls the expression of the genes for these inflammatory cytokines and growth factors. We therefore investigated whether NO affects NF-kappaB activation in AM in vitro and in vivo. In vitro studies with AM showed that NF-kappaB activation by lipopolysaccharide (LPS) is decreased by NO in a dose-dependent manner. NO prevented an LPS-mediated decrease in the NF-kappaB inhibitory protein IkappaB-alpha. In asthma, airway NO levels are increased, whereas in primary pulmonary hypertension (PPH), airway NO levels are lower than in healthy lungs. In vivo investigations were conducted with freshly isolated AM from healthy controls, asthmatic individuals, and PPH patients. Healthy individuals had airway NO levels of 8 +/- 2 ppb (mean +/- SEM), which is associated with low NF-kappaB activation. Asthma patients with airway NO levels &gt; 17 ppb showed minimal NF-kappaB activation, whereas asthmatic individuals with NO levels &lt;/= 17 ppb showed greater NF-kappaB activation. PPH patients with low NO (1 +/- 1 ppb) had prominent NF-kappaB activation. These in vivo studies in asthma and PPH support the in vitro observation of an inverse relationship between NO and NF-kappaB activation. One mechanism by which NO blocks cytokine production involves IkappaB.
A novel Hendra-like paramyxovirus named Nipah virus (NiV) was the cause of an outbreak among workers from one abattoir who had contact with pigs. Two patients had only respiratory symptoms, while 9 patients had encephalitis, 7 of whom are described in this report. Neurological involvement was diverse and multifocal, including aseptic meningitis, diffuse encephalitis, and focal brainstem involvement. Cerebellar signs were relatively common. Magnetic resonance imaging scans of the brain showed scattered lesions. IgM antibodies against Hendra virus (HeV) were present in the serum of all patients. Two patients recovered completely. Five had residual deficits 8 weeks later.
Welander distal myopathy (WDM) is an autosomal dominant myopathy with late-adult onset characterized by slow progression of distal muscle weakness. The disorder is considered a model disease for hereditary distal myopathies and is almost only seen in Sweden and some parts of Finland. A genomewide screening has been performed in initially two Swedish families with 400 highly polymorphic microsatellite markers. We report here that the disease is linked to chromosome 2p13. Seven additional nonrelated families have subsequently been mapped to the same area where a maximum two-point LOD score of 17.97 was obtained with the marker D2S2113 at 0.0 recombination fraction. The region has been restricted by recombinations and the finding of a common shared haplotype through all analyzed families. This restricts the gene locus region to 2.4 cM. These findings provide evidence for the involvement of a single locus for WDM. The WDM region overlaps with the linkage region for Miyoshi myopathy and limb-girdle muscular dystrophy 2B. The dysferlin gene responsible for these disorders is considered a primary candidate gene for WDM.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by an uneven and progressive loss of nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons. It is hypothesized that the physiological basis for the therapeutic response in early stages of PD is the ability for the partially and unevenly denervated dopaminergic system to restore and normalize dopaminergic influence in functionally segregated subregions of the basal ganglia. To investigate this hypothesis, patients with early and uncomplicated PD were investigated with positron emission tomography by using a two-tracer protocol yielding a measure of dopamine transporter-corrected dopamine synthesis capacity. Compared with controls, patients with PD exhibited a considerable increase in dopamine transporter-corrected dopamine synthesis capacity. The increase showed an inverse dependence on the structural integrity in as much as the highest rate was measured in the most denervated region, the dorsal part of putamen (198% of control value). A therapeutic challenge with antiparkinsonian medication state-dependently decreased dopaminergic activity. Thus, it is demonstrated that dopaminergic degeneration in PD is accompanied by a conspicuous acceleration of presynaptic dopaminergic activity, which is state-dependently down-regulated by dopaminomimetic treatment. It is suggested that homeostatic mechanisms acting to maintain congruity within the dopaminergic system are functionally intact in early PD.



Cutaneous-evoked tinnitus is a clinical entity that has not been reported previously in the neurootological literature. Herein, a neuroscience framework that encompasses several distinct areas of research is used to conceptualize and help understand this phenomenon. We review normal neuroanatomical and physiological interactions between auditory and somatosensory systems in mammals. Also considered are mechanistic accounts of lesion-induced changes in the CNS following deafferentation/deefferentation of peripheral sensory or motor structures that may have a relationship to this phenomenon, as well as the role of functional imaging modalities in studying various phantom perceptions.
Little research is currently available related to pain management by neuroscience nurses. However, due to concerns about the potential for altering neurological status, some neurosurgery patients may not receive optimal pain management. This paper describes findings from a pain related survey which was distributed during the Canadian Association of Neuroscience Nurses June 1998 national conference. The survey was intended to assess Canadian neuroscience nurses pain management knowledge and to explore pain management techniques after intracranial surgery. While 60% of respondents answered four pain assessment and management case study related questions correctly, some respondents rated pain differently when it was expressed by a smiling or grimacing patient. The most common methods for pain control after intracranial surgery included intermittent codeine and/or morphine, often by intramuscular injection. Findings from this study suggest that some neuroscience nurses require further education about pain management and that many patients do not receive optimal pain management after intracranial surgery.

Recent postmortem studies have demonstrated subtle alterations in the hippocampal formation (HIPP) of patients with schizophrenia (SZ). These changes include a decreased density of nonpyramidal neurons (NPs), an increase of the GABAA, but not benzodiazepine receptors and a neuroleptic-dose-related increase of GAD65-IR terminals, particularly in sectors CA3 and CA2. High resolution studies of the GABAA receptor have further suggested that a decrease of disinhibitory GABAergic activity (i.e., GABA-to-GABA) in stratum pyramidale of CA3 may coexist with reduced inhibitory modulation (i.e., GABA-to-excitatory pyramidal neuron) in the stratum oriens of this same sector. These changes could potentially involve excitotoxic damage to interneurons in CA2; but, the precise time frame for the induction of such an injury during pre- versus postnatal life cannot as yet be inferred from the available data. These findings are consistent with reports of abnormal oscillatory rhythms and increased basal metabolic activity in the HIPP of patients with SZ. The fact that patients with manic depression also show a decrease of NPs in CA2 suggests that changes in the GABA system may not be related to a susceptibility gene for SZ. Rather, these alterations could be associated with a nonspecific factor, such as stress, experienced either early in life or much later during adolescence or adulthood. Presumably, there are also changes associated in other transmitter systems that may play a more specific role in establishing the SZ phenotype.
Symptom management is the assessment and treatment of the manifestations of multiple sclerosis (MS). Optimal treatment includes patient education, rehabilitation, counseling, and sometimes medical or surgical therapy. A multi-disciplinary treatment team is usually required to provide the wide range of services necessary to manage MS symptoms. This article will review the medical and surgical options used in the management of primary MS symptoms.
Fixed charges on the extracellular surface of voltage-gated ion channels influence the gating. In previous studies of cloned voltage-gated K channels, we found evidence that the functional surface charges are located on the peptide loop between the fifth transmembrane segment and the pore region (the S5-P loop). In the present study, we determine the role of individual charges of the S5-P loop by correlating primary structure with experimentally calculated surface potentials of the previously investigated channels. The results suggest that contributions to the surface potential at the voltage sensor of the different residues varies in an oscillating pattern, with the first residue of the N-terminal end of the S5-P loop, an absolutely conserved glutamate, contributing most. An analysis yields estimates of the distance between the residues and the voltage sensor, the first N-terminal residue being located at a distance of 5-6 A. To explain the results, a structural hypothesis, comprising an alpha-helical N-terminal end of the S5-P loop, is presented.

1 The modulatory activity of extracellular H+ and Zn2+ was examined on ATP-responses at rat P2X1 (rP2X1) and rat P2X3 (rP2X3) receptors expressed in Xenopus oocytes and studied under voltage-clamp conditions. 2 Superfused ATP (0.03-30 microM, at pH 7.5) evoked inward currents at rP2X1 receptors (EC50 value, 300+/-7 nM). ATP potency was reduced 2 fold at pH 6.5, and 6 fold at pH 5.5, without altering the maximum ATP effect. Alkaline conditions (pH 8.0) did not alter ATP activity. 3 Superfused ATP (0.01 - 300 microM, at pH 7. 5) evoked inward currents at rP2X3 receptors (EC50 value, 1.8+/-0.3 microM). ATP activity was affected only at pH 5.5, reducing agonist potency 15 fold without altering the maximum ATP effect. 4 Extracellular Zn2+ inhibited ATP-responses at rP2X1 receptors in a time-dependent manner, a 20 min pre-incubation being optimal (IC50 value, 1.0+/-0.2 microM). However, the Zn2+ effect was pH-independent, suggesting Zn2+- and H+-inhibition of ATP-responses occur through independent processes. 5 Extracellular Zn2+ weakly potentiated ATP-responses at rP2X3 receptors (EC50 value, 11+/-1 microM). The Zn2+ effect was dependent on pre-incubation time and, with 20 min pre-incubation periods, Zn2+ potentiated then inhibited ATP-responses in a concentration-dependent, but pH-independent, manner. 6 In summary, ATP activity at rP2X1 receptors was decreased by both extracellular H+ and Zn2+ and their effects were additive. ATP activity at rP2X3 receptors was less sensitive to H+-inhibition and, in contrast, was potentiated by Zn2+ in a pH-independent manner. These differential effects may help distinguish P2X1 and P2X3 receptors in whole tissues.
1 Various classes of nitrovasodilators release nitric oxide (NO) through distinct reaction pathways, many of which involve endogenous reductants and/or oxidants. This study examined relaxations of isolated rat coronary arteries induced by spermine NONOate (SPNO), 3-morpholinosydnonimine (SIN-1), nitroprusside (NP), S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine (SNAP) and nitroglycerin (NTG) in order to assess whether their potency was influenced by any of six redox compounds: 1 mM ascorbate, 1 mM dehydroascorbate, 0.1 mM dithiothreitol, 10 microM diamide, 0.1 mM ferrocyanide, and 0.1 mM ferricyanide. 2 Only SPNO spontaneously generated NO at measurable levels. These levels were decreased by the presence of ascorbate and dithiothreitol, which likewise decreased the potency of SPNO. 3 The potency of SIN-1 was unaffected by any redox compound except ferricyanide, which increased the potency not only of SIN-1, but also of other nitrovasodilators and NO-independent vasodilators. 4 The potency of NP was decreased by two structurally similar multivalent anions, ferrocyanide and ferricyanide, suggesting that NP metabolism requires ionic binding to tissue. 5 SNAP lost its potency in solutions containing ascorbate or dehydroascorbate. SNAP potency was also decreased by the glutathione oxidant, diamide, and by ferrocyanide and ferricyanide, suggesting that glutathione and ionic binding may be required for NO release. 6 NTG appeared to relax arteries via two pathways. One required only low concentrations of NTG and a labile endogenous factor that was preserved by dithiothreitol and eliminated by ferricyanide. A distinct second pathway required higher concentrations of NTG. 7 These distinct attributes of nitrovasodilator metabolism may underlie differences in regional specificity or tolerance development, and therefore might eventually be exploited in the development and use of nitrovasodilators.
1. A number of compounds, including the selective 5-HT7 receptor antagonist SB-258719, were investigated for their effect on [3H]-5-carboxamidotryptamine (5-CT) radioligand binding and 5-CT-stimulated adenylyl cyclase activity in guinea-pig hippocampal membranes, in order to confirm the presence of functionally coupled 5-HT7 receptors in this tissue. 2. The [3H]-5-CT radioligand binding profile was consistent with binding predominantly to 5-HT7 receptors. The affinity of SB-258719 (pKi 7.2+/-0.1) was similar to its reported human 5-HT7 receptor affinity. 3. In the adenylyl cyclase functional assay, 5-CT was a potent and full agonist compared to 5-HT, whereas 8-hydroxy-dipropylaminotetralin (8-OH-DPAT) was a partial agonist (intrinsic activity 0.4+/-0.1). The rank order of potency for agonists (5-CT&gt;5-HT approximately 8-OH-DPAT) was consistent with activation of 5-HT7 receptors. SB-258719 (5 microM) and methiothepin (1 microM) surmountably antagonized the response to 5-CT, consistent with competitive antagonism. The pKB for SB-258719 (7.2+/-0.1) was in good agreement with its reported antagonist potency at the human cloned 5-HT7 receptor. 4. In the functional assay, WAY-100635 (100 nM) and cyanopindolol (1 microM) induced a biphasic 5-CT response curve, consistent with selective antagonism of a component of the response to 5-CT. The estimated pKB values for WAY-100635 and cyanopindolol (9.6 and 8.4 respectively) were in good agreement with their reported 5-HT1A receptor affinities. 5. The data are consistent with the presence of 5-HT7 receptors in guinea-pig hippocampus which are positively coupled to adenylyl cyclase. In addition, 5-HT7 receptor-mediated stimulation of adenylyl cyclase activity in this tissue appears to be augmented by a mechanism involving 5-HT1A receptor activation.
1. Whole-cell patch-clamp recording was used to determine the functional expression and pharmacological properties of P2X receptors in chromaffin cells dissociated from adrenal medullae of rats and guinea-pigs. 2. In rat chromaffin cells maintained in culture for 1 - 7 days, ATP and UTP failed to evoke any detectable response. 3. Guinea-pig chromaffin cells responded to ATP (100 microM) with a rapidly activating inward current. The amplitude of the response to ATP increased over the period cells were maintained in culture and so did the number of cells giving a detectable response, with 69% of cells responding after &gt;/=4 days of culture. 4. The response to ATP desensitized slowly, and had a reversal potential of 2.5 mV. The EC50 for ATP was 43 microM. The potency order for ATP analogues was 2-MeSATP&gt;ATP&gt;ADP. Adenosine, UTP and alpha,beta-meATP were inactive. 5. Suramin (100 microM) and Cibacron blue (50 microM) inhibited the ATP (100 microM)-activated current by 51 and 47%, respectively. PPADS antagonized the response to ATP (100 microM) with an IC50 of 3.2 microM. 6. The ATP concentration-response curve shifted to the left at pH 6.8 (EC50, 19 microM) and right at pH 8.0 (EC50, 96 microM), without changing the maximal response. Zn2+ inhibited the response to ATP (100 microM) with an IC50 of 48 microM. 7. This study indicates that expression of ATP-gated cation channels in chromaffin cells is species dependent. The P2X receptors in guinea-pig chromaffin cells show many characteristics of the P2X2 receptor subtype.
The cellular mechanisms underlying the physiological effects of the orexins are poorly understood. Therefore, the pharmacology of the recombinant human orexin receptors was studied using FLIPR. Intracellular calcium ([Ca2+]i) was monitored in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells stably expressing orexin-1 (OX1) or orexin-2 (OX2) receptors using Fluo-3AM. Orexin-A and orexin-B increased [Ca2+]i in a concentration dependent manner in CHO-OX1 (pEC50=8.03+/-0.08 and 7. 30+/-0.08 respectively, n=5) and CHO-OX2 (pEC50=8.18+/-0.10 and 8. 43+/-0.09 respectively, n=5) cells. This response was typified as a rapid peak in [Ca2+]i (maximal at 6 - 8 s), followed by a gradually declining secondary phase. Thapsigargin (3 microM) or U73122 (3 microM) abolished the response. In calcium-free conditions the peak response was unaffected but the secondary phase was shortened, returning to basal values within 90 s. Calcium (1.5 mM) replacement restored the secondary phase. In conclusion, orexins cause a phospholipase C-mediated release of calcium from intracellular stores, with subsequent calcium influx.
Several lines of evidence suggest that interleukin-1 (IL-1) acts directly on the central nervous system, probably within the hypothalamus, causing effects such as fever, activation of the immune response and sickness behaviour. IL-1 has also been shown to be involved in the aetiology of several neuronal diseases, including neurodegeneration, stroke and Alzheimer's disease. However, the question as to whether the full-length type I IL-1 receptor (IL-1RI) is expressed in the human hypothalamus has yet to be addressed. Using the polymerase chain reaction, we cloned a full-length cDNA encoding the human hypothalamic IL-1RI from human hypothalamic cDNA. The DNA sequence of the human hypothalamic receptor was identical to that of the human fibroblast IL-1RI. The IL-1RI receptor protein was detected in astrocytes of normal human hypothalamic brain sections using immunocytochemical techniques. To ascertain that the cloned receptor was functional, Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells were transfected with a plasmid vector containing the IL-1RI coding region. IL-1RI-mediated-signal transduction was assessed by microphysiometry and activation of p38 MAP (mitogen-activated protein) kinase. We report the first demonstration that both the type I IL-1 transcript and the protein are expressed in the human hypothalamus. The receptor was expressed in a stable CHO cell line, providing a tool with which to embark on a thorough analysis of the signalling mechanisms mediated by IL-1 via this receptor.
Over the last century, several dozen case reports have presented 'topographically disoriented' patients who, in some cases, appear to have selectively lost their ability to find their way within large-scale, locomotor environments. A review is offered here that has as its aim the creation of a taxonomy that accurately reflects the behavioural impairments and neuroanatomical findings of this literature. This effort is guided by an appreciation of the models of normative way-finding offered by environmental psychology and recent neuroscience research. It is proposed that several varieties of topographical disorientation exist, resulting from damage to distinct neuroanatomical areas. The particular pattern of impairments that patients evidence is argued to be consonant with the known functions of these cortical regions and with recent neuroimaging results. The conflicting claims of previous reviews of this area are also considered and addressed.
To test the hypothesis that brain size and forelimb dexterity are positively correlated, the relative brain size of 41 species of fissiped (terrestrial) carnivores (Order: Carnivora) was examined with respect to their forelimb use during feeding. With the use of a newly derived dexterity index, the forelimb dexterity executed by each of the species was calculated as a single, continuous variable which was then regressed against the residuals of brain size. To account for confounding effects of phylogenetic inertia, the analysis was performed with independent contrasts analysis using a speciational model of evolutionary change (i.e. equal branch lengths). The results suggest that relative brain size and isocortex size are not correlated with the dexterity of the proximal or distal segments or a combination of the two (total forelimb dexterity). The presence of species with widely different brain sizes and similar dexterities, and vice versa, suggests that an increase in the amount of neural substrate might not be necessary for the production of finely coordinated forelimb movements. It is suggested that this outcome is representative of the plasticity of both mammalian brain size and behavior and that variations in brain size and forelimb dexterity could be linked to disparate ecological and phylogenetic factors which act in concert to promote or constrain neural development and behavior in different species.

Recent work on the insect olfactory system has shown that its mushroom bodies (one of its major components) are involved in the fine discrimination of odours and that the temporal organisation of spike discharges plays a fundamental role. We propose here a model of a network that is able to decode the temporal patterns which characterise an odour. This model has three fundamental properties that seem to exist in all mushroom bodies of insects studied so far: a) long lasting inhibitions with rebounds, able to facilitate delayed spike generation; b) synaptic plasticity, which allows the network to learn to recognise temporal patterns; c) above all a large interconnection, which allows this network to recognise intervals of various duration. This model thus appears suited to identify combinations of temporal patterns in the dendrites of Kenyon cells (the principal cells in the calyces of the mushroom bodies). Moreover, the mushroom bodies integrate multimodal inputs, suggesting that the detection of temporal patterns may be extended to the detection of a complex environment, combining in particular olfactive and visual inputs.
We describe postsynaptic Ca2+ signals that subserve induction of two forms of neuronal plasticity, long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD), in rat hippocampal neurons. The common induction protocol for LTP, a 1-s, 50-Hz tetanus, generates Ca2+ increases of about 50-Hz in dendritic spines of CA1 neurons. These very large increases, measured using a low affinity indicator (Mg fura 5), were found only in the spines and tertiary dendrites, and were dependent upon influx through N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) gated channels. High affinity Ca2+ indicators (e.g., fura 2) are unable to demonstrate these events. In acute slices, neighboring dendritic branches often showed very different responses to a tetanus, and in some instances, neighboring spines on the same dendrite responded differently. LTD in mature CA1 neurons was induced by a low frequency stimulus protocol (2 Hz, 900 pulses), in the presence of GABA- and NMDA-receptor blockers. This LTD protocol produced dendritic Ca2+ increases of &lt;1 microM. Duration of the Ca2+ increase was approximately 30 s and was due to voltage-gated Ca2+ influx. Finally, the ability of synaptically addressed Ca2+ stores to release Ca2+ was studied in CA3 neurons and was found to require immediate preloading and high intensity presynaptic stimulation, conditions unlike normal LTP-LTD protocols.
Ca2+ signaling is a central process in brain function, but the direction of its change in ageing and in the presymptomatic stages of Alzheimer's disease has been controversial. A great deal of studies have been interpreted as supportive to the current hypothesis that intracellular Ca2+ levels are steadily increased in ageing. We, however, believe that, although current studies have provided valuable knowledge for the mechanisms of the signal transduction process, they have not furnished relevant information regarding the global Ca2+ changes in the ageing brain, because the cognition-related Ca2+ pulses exist only in the intact brain.

The mammalian olfactory system is capable of discriminating among a large variety of odor molecules and is therefore essential for the identification of food, enemies and mating partners. The assembly and maintenance of olfactory connectivity have been shown to depend on the combinatorial actions of a variety of molecular signals, including extracellular matrix, cell adhesion and odorant receptor molecules. Recent studies have identified semaphorins and their receptors as putative molecular cues involved in olfactory pathfinding, plasticity and regeneration. The semaphorins comprise a large family of secreted and transmembrane axon guidance proteins, being either repulsive or attractive in nature. Neuropilins were shown to serve as receptors for secreted class 3 semaphorins, whereas members of the plexin family are receptors for class 1 and V (viral) semaphorins. The present review will discuss a role for semaphorins and their receptors in the establishment and maintenance of olfactory connectivity.
In striated muscle, the cytoskeletal protein dystrophin, the protein product of the Duchenne muscular dystrophy gene, is associated with a number of sarcolemmal glycoproteins to form a large oligomeric complex, the dystrophin-glycoprotein complex (DGC). Over the last 10 years, four of these sarcolemmal glycoproteins, alpha-, beta-, gamma- and delta-sarcoglycans, have been shown to form a distinct subcomplex, the sarcoglycan complex, in the DGC. Furthermore, the genetic defects of alpha-, beta-, gamma- and delta-sarcoglycans have been identified as the causes of four distinct forms of muscular dystrophies, which are now collectively called sarcoglycanopathy. Current studies are beginning to focus on the biological functions of the sarcoglycan complex and the molecular mechanism by which its dysfunction leads to muscle cell degeneration.
Background and Purpose: Many comprehensive descriptions of the clinical spectrum of infratentorial infarcts in elderly patients and with a retrospective design have been published. The aim of this study was to describe the clinical characteristics and prognosis in young patients with isolated infratentorial infarcts. Methods: In a prospective series of 105 patients aged 18-44 years with cerebral infarction 24 had a brainstem or cerebellar infarction. The patient selection was validated in a population-based epidemiological survey. The patients were assessed acutely and at 4 and 12 months after onset. Extensive evaluation included CT and MRI scans, angiography, ultrasonic duplex scanning, transesophageal echocardiography and a chemistry panel including hematologic testing. The modified Rankin scale and NIH stroke scale were used for assessment of disability and neurological dysfunction. Results: Eighteen patients had a cerebellar infarct (posterior inferior cerebellar artery territory in 9 patients, superior cerebellar artery in 6, anterior inferior cerebellar artery in 2, nonterritorial in 1). Two patients had lateral medullary infarcts and 2 isolated pontine infarcts. In 2 patients MRI was normal despite repeated investigations. Hearing loss and tinnitus were the only explicit symptoms for superior cerebellar artery infarcts, but it was otherwise impossible to classify each case to a vascular territory according to clinical characteristics. The age-specific incidence of isolated cerebellar infarction was 1.8/100,000/year. The presumed causes were arterial dissection in 8 patients, idiopathic in 7, cardioembolic in 5, oral contraceptive use in 3 and protein S deficiency in 1 patient. One patient died during the acute phase and another developed a locked-in syndrome. At follow-up, 1 patient had a transitory ischemic attack and 1 a silent cerebral infarction. Twenty-two patients had a favorable outcome according to the modified Rankin scale (grade 0-2) and the NIH scale. Conclusions: Cerebellar infarctions are frequent among young stroke patients in northern Sweden. Arterial dissection is the prevailing stroke mechanism in infratentorial infarcts. The prognosis is favorable regarding motor impairment but cognitive deficits may prevent return to work.
The calcium responses to serotonin and thrombin, as assessed using the fluorescent indicator Fura-2, have been investigated in platelets taken from 59 non-smokers and 17 smokers. The peak responses above baseline, calculated either as fluorescence ratios or calibrated calcium concentrations, were in the order of magnitude thrombin 520 mU/ml &gt; thrombin 52 mU/ml &gt; serotonin 1 micromol/l approximately serotonin 100 micromol/l. Multiple regression analyses indicated that the responses to 1 micromol/l serotonin, but not the responses to thrombin, were significantly correlated with the serotonin2A receptor density measured using [3H]LSD as radioligand. No effects of age, gender, smoking habit or the time of year of sampling were seen on the calcium responses to serotonin and thrombin. It is concluded that cellular processes distal to the serotonin2A receptor recognition site may compensate to some extent for the large differences in recognition site expression, thus underlining the importance of providing a functional correlate in addition to [3H]LSD binding site densities when studying platelet serotonin2A receptors in neuropsychiatric disorders. The measurement of Ca2+ responses to serotonin provides a useful such functional correlate.
A 19-year-old male developed complaints including weakness of the lower extremities and right hand, numbness, dysphagia and urinary difficulties following a 2 month exposure to an industrial solvent constituted mainly of 1-bromopropane, but also containing butylene oxide, 1,3 dioxolane, nitromethane, and other components. Nerve conduction studies revealed evidence of a primary, symmetric demyelinating polyneuropathy. Evidence of CNS involvement came from gadolinium enhanced MRI scans of the brain, showing patchy areas of increased T2 signal in the periventricular white matter, similar scans of the spinal cord revealing root enhancement at several lumbar levels, and SSEP studies. The patient's symptoms had started to resolve following the discontinuation of the exposure, before he was lost to follow-up. Similar findings have been reported following 1-bromopropane exposure in rats. I hypothesize that this patient's symptoms may have been due to 1-bromopropane-induced neurotoxicity.

To gain a better understanding and a more complete assessment of chronic pain syndrome, the psychosocial, psychological, psychodynamic, and psychiatric aspects of this condition should be included in patient evaluation. As illustrated in the two case studies presented, this approach leads to clearer recognition of the biological and psychosocial needs of patients, and allows for more effective treatment measures to be taken.
Emphasizing the importance of an interdisciplinary approach in the treatment and management of patients with chronic pain syndromes (CPS), this article reviews, first, nonpharmacologic approaches and modalities for CPS patients, and next, pharmacologic approaches for CPS patients. Flexibility and the use of multiple modalities are emphasized. The article concludes with the controversial subject of the use of long-term analgesic opioid pharmacotherapy in patients with chronic benign pain syndromes.
Although the incidence of cancer and cancer-related deaths has declined in recent years, undertreatment of cancer-related pain continues to be a significant problem. By thoroughly assessing chronic malignant pain (CMP) as it relates to cancer and achieving a more complete understanding of the CMP syndromes experienced by cancer patients, psychiatrists and neurologists can formulate accurate diagnoses of patients' clinical pain syndromes and construct well-defined, individual management plans for each patient.
In this article, we will first present an overview of the epidemiology and classification of headaches, distinguishing between primary headaches (in which the headache itself is the primary disorder) and secondary headaches (ie, headaches due to an underlying condition, such as a neoplastic and/or space-occupying lesion, a cerebrovascular accident, or other type of structural brain lesion). We will use the current classification system of the International Headache Society, focusing on primary headache disorders (migraine, tension-type headache, cluster headache), which we will discuss from the practical clinical perspectives of diagnosis and clinical management. Throughout this article, we will emphasize the chronicity and periodicity of headaches as a type of chronic pain syndrome.

The behavioral response of planaria to the exposure to selective opioid agonists was studied. The mu agonist [d-ala2, N-methyl-Phe4,Gly5-ol]enkephalin (DAMGO) and the 6 agonist [D-Pen2, D-Pen5]enkephalin (DPDPE) failed to alter motor activity at all doses tested. Low doses of the selective kappa agonist (+/-)-trans-U-50-trans-3,4-dichloro-N-methyl-N[2-(1-pyrrodinyl)-cyclohexyl]benzene acetamide methasulphonate (U50, 488) and bremazocine-HCl increased motor activity leading to C-like position (CLP) and screw-like hyperkinesia (SLH). These changes were identical to those seen previously with the exposure to D2 or D1 dopamine receptor agonists, respectively. Higher doses of kappa agonists produced the enhancement of CLP and SLH together with robust snake-like movements (SLM). This latter response, that was typical of stimulation of kappa opioid receptors, was blocked by co-exposure to naloxone or the selective kappa antagonist Nor-binaltorphimine (Nor-BNI). Finally, co-exposure to sulpiride or SH-23390 respectively blocked the CLP or SLH response produced by U50,488 or bremazocine. Our data indicate the presence of kappa opioid receptors in planaria and suggest the functional interaction between the opioid and dopamine system in this simple animal model.
Recent advances in the elucidation of the biochemical machinery of apoptosis have allowed us to appreciate the significance of unscheduled apoptosis in a wide range of human diseases and disorders, such as ischemic stroke, traumatic brain injury, Alzheimer's disease, drug-induced liver injury and cardiac ischemia. One of the most exciting advances in this area has been the discovery that a family of intracellular cysteine proteinases (caspases) plays a central role in the apoptosis cascade. Various caspase inhibitors (peptide or protein) have demonstrated abilities to strongly suppress unscheduled apoptotic cell death both in vitro and in vivo. Thus, there is potential to exploit the therapeutic values of caspase inhibition.
Based on the published literature available so far, it appears that naturally derived hyaluronic acid (HA) and newer formulations available on the market belong to the pharmacologic class of slow-acting drugs for the treatment of osteoarthritis. These compounds seem to have the potential to modulate the painful symptoms of osteoarthritis as well as to improve the function of the osteoarthritis joint. Positive clinical consequences are based on direct and indirect effects of viscosupplementation associated with a normalization of the rheologic properties of the osteoarthritic synovial fluid, decreased inflammation, and end-coating of the pain receptors in the osteoarthritis joint. Few in vivo data exist in humans to support the concept that HA formulations could have a structure-modifying effect on human osteoarthritis cartilage. Animal-based studies have demonstrated positive effects of exogenous HA on pain in the joint, heat shock proteins, and in models of osteoarthritis. Although many promising effects of exogenous HA have been reported, there remains uncertainty as to the effectiveness of reversing cartilage injury and other manifestations of joint diseases with exogenous HA because of difficulties in interpreting and unifying results of these studies. This is due largely to differences of cartilage source in models of joint/cartilage injury, multiple end points, the controls employed, analytical techniques, and the molecular weight of exogenous HA used. There exists a need for uniform agreement as to the choice of injury model, time points of the study, evaluation tools, and source and molecular weight of the HA used if we are to determine whether exogenous application of HA has a truly beneficial role in the reversal of cartilage injury.
Drug-induced delirium is often seen in clinical practice. Most knowledge about delirium-inducing drugs comes from reports on side effects, and few systematic studies have been done in the field. Delirium is strongly associated with anticholinergic activity; drugs of different classes, including tricyclic antidepressants and traditional high-dose neuroleptics, constitute a high-risk group. A large number of drugs, including benzodiazepines, sedatives, dopamine-activating drugs, antiepileptics, histamine H2 receptor blockers, digitalis and analgesics, are less frequently associated with delirious reactions and constitute a medium-high-risk group. Some of these drugs do not have anticholinergic effects but in vitro have shown to bind to muscarine receptors. The risk of inducing delirium in frail elderly and demented persons clearly suggests that drugs which might induced delirium should be avoided.
Geriatric patients with known dementia and suffering from an acute somatic disease are highly vulnerable to develop delirium. It is therefore essential to suspect and recognize delirium in these patients, especially in emergency wards. In the present study we evaluated activities on a dedicated delirium ward at a Swedish University Hospital. Over one and a half years 637 patients were treated for suspected delirium, the majority of patients being referred from the emergency ward at the same hospital. Infectious diseases were the main cause of delirium in 67% of cases. Other common causes were heart disease and stroke. Drug use as the only cause of delirium was found in less than 1% of cases. Approximately 70% of patients had cognitive disturbances, either dementia or mild cognitive impairment. The existence of multiple diseases as causative factors was frequent. Knowledge about delirium and how it is both diagnosed and treated is of great importance in all kinds of settings where acute somatic treatments are common.
In research and in clinical practice instruments assessing symptoms of delirium are of value in the diagnostic process, in the evaluation of intervention as well as in the care of patients. Different assessment instruments are needed for different purposes. Most instruments developed are screening instruments or diagnostic tools. Confusional State Evaluation (CSE) is an observer's rating scale assessing severity of delirium. Interrater reliability and validity of the CSE have been found satisfactory. The CSE seems to be of value in following the course of delirium in elderly patients and useful for instance in evaluating effects of interventions.
Dementia is the most common risk factor for delirium in the elderly. Here we will review the evidence that proposed pathogenetic mechanisms for delirium (such as reduced cerebral metabolism, imbalance of the noradrenergic/cholinergic neurotransmission, inflammation, disturbances in neuronal systems which regulate stress and the sleep/wake cycle) are also a part of the pathophysiology of Alzheimer's disease. In particular, the role of inflammatory mechanisms in both disorders will be discussed.
When protecting a food item held in the forepaws, rats will dodge laterally away from an approaching conspecific. Both males and females dodge, but do so differently, with females pivoting around the pelvis and males pivoting around the midbody. While females tend to end the dodge with their rumps opposing the other rat's midbody, males typically oppose the head. In this study, two developmental factors were investigated for their role in the genesis of this sex-differentiated motor pattern: (a) Dodging by males and females was analyzed before and after puberty to ascertain whether the differential pattern of movement was associated with the pubertal change in pelvic morphology, and (b) Dodging by adult males and females that had been raised without social interaction from weaning was analyzed to ascertain whether experience in the juvenile phase of development was necessary. In both studies, males and females performed the sex-typical version of the dodging motor pattern regardless of age or test condition. However, orienting to the head of the opponent was disrupted in males reared in social isolation, a feature of dodging that developed between weaning and puberty. Therefore, the evidence is consistent with the view that while the sexual differentiation of the motor organization of dodging develops without the need for experience, the males' ability to direct this motor pattern with the correct orientation towards the opponent requires some prepubertal experience.
We report the generation and analysis of mice homozygous for a targeted deletion of the Dlx5 homeobox gene. Dlx5 mutant mice have multiple defects in craniofacial structures, including their ears, noses, mandibles and calvaria, and die shortly after birth. A subset (28%) exhibit exencephaly. Ectodermal expression of Dlx5 is required for the development of olfactory and otic placode-derived epithelia and surrounding capsules. The nasal capsules are hypoplastic (e.g. lacking turbinates) and, in most cases, the right side is more severely affected than the left. Dorsal otic vesicle derivatives (e. g. semicircular canals and endolymphatic duct) and the surrounding capsule, are more severely affected than ventral (cochlear) structures. Dlx5 is also required in mandibular arch ectomesenchyme, as the proximal mandibular arch skeleton is dysmorphic. Dlx5 may control craniofacial development in part through the regulation of the goosecoid homeobox gene. goosecoid expression is greatly reduced in Dlx5 mutants, and both goosecoid and Dlx5 mutants share a number of similar craniofacial malformations. Dlx5 may perform a general role in skeletal differentiation, as exemplified by hypomineralization within the calvaria. The distinct focal defects within the branchial arches of the Dlx1, Dlx2 and Dlx5 mutants, along with the nested expression of their RNAs, support a model in which these genes have both redundant and unique functions in the regulation of regional patterning of the craniofacial ectomesenchyme.
Depression in later life is usually a recurrent illness and often a chronic one, associated with increased health care utilization, amplification of the disability born of concurrent medical illness, decreased quality of life, increased risk for suicide, and cognitive impairment. The good news, however, is that maintenance treatments work and have a demonstrably positive impact on long-term illness course. Treatment response is especially variable, or brittle, in patients aged over 70; yet maintenance treatment with combined medication and psychotherapy is able to significantly reduce long-term treatment response variability, ensuring continued wellness. Further evaluation of cost-effectiveness is necessary in order to improve reimbursement for effective long-term treatment.
Despite its prevalence and seriousness, depression in late life remains underappreciated as a source of disability and suffering for older people and their families. Despite a solid and substantial body of research, recognition of depression remains problematic and is often attributed to normal developmental changes in aging. Treatment efficacy data notwithstanding, the adequacy and appropriateness of treatment is highly variable. This paper contains a broad overview of new research developments in depression in late life and the disabilities associated with it Serving as an introduction to the specific papers that follow in this issue of Dialogues in Clinical Neuroscience, this article scans the knowledge base in basic, clinical, and health services research, identifying the highlights of current work in the area and proposing areas of needed expansion of research efforts.
Noninvasive tests of four autonomic organ systems (vasomotor control, baroreceptor reflexes, sudomotor function and pupillary reflexes) were performed on nine patients with hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy (HMSN) type I and three patients with Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome (LEMS). The results were compared with those of 33 control subjects. Autonomic dysfunction was considered present when at least two of the four organ system tests were abnormal. The three patients with LEMS had abnormal results in two or more different systems, whereas only one of the nine patients with HMSN type I had two abnormal test results. This study demonstrates that autonomic dysfunction is not a common finding in patients with HMSN type I and its presence should alert us to find the cause of this autonomic disorder.
Glutamate, the principal excitatory neurotransmitter in the brain, acts on three families of ionotropic receptor--AMPA (alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-isoxazole-4-propionic acid), kainate and NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartate) receptors and three families of metabotropic receptor (Group I: mGlu1 and mGlu5; Group II: mGlu2 and mGlu3; Group III: mGlu4, mGlu6, mGlu7 and mGlu8). Glutamate is removed from the synaptic cleft and the extracellular space by Na+-dependent transporters (GLAST/EAAT1, GLT/EAAT2, EAAC/EAAT3, EAAT4, EAAT5). In rodents, genetic manipulations relating to the expression or function of glutamate receptor proteins can induce epilepsy syndromes or raise seizure threshold. Decreased expression of glutamate transporters (EAAC knockdown, GLT knockout) can lead to seizures. In acquired epilepsy syndromes, a wide variety of changes in receptors and transporters have been described. Electrically-induced kindling in the rat is associated with functional potentiation of NMDA receptor-mediated responses at various limbic sites. Group I metabotropic responses are enhanced in the amygdala. To date, no genetic epilepsy in man has been identified in which the primary genetic defect involves glutamate receptors or transporters. Changes are found in some acquired syndromes, including enhanced NMDA receptor responses in dentate granule cells in patients with hippocampal sclerosis.

One third of children with autistic spectrum disorders (or pervasive developmental disorders) enter that state by regression from a more normal prior development at the onset of epilepsy or epileptiform abnormality in the electroencephalogram. In a very small proportion structural lesions of the temporal lobes are discovered. These form part of the sample of children coming to a surgical treatment programme. Ninety-eight child candidates for epilepsy surgery were seen by one neuropsychiatrist. Their psychiatric diagnoses were coded on DSM IV schedules. Other variables of interest were the age at onset of epilepsy; the nature, the side, and time of acquisition of the lesion; intelligence, and sex. There were 19 children with autistic spectrum disorders including eight with Asperger's syndrome. Ten of the children in the autistic group had right brain lesions; six were dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumours (DNETs); two were cortical dysplasias; one tuberous sclerosis; one hemi-cortical defect; and 1 mesial temporal sclerosis. Nine started epilepsy in their first year; nine had IQs in the retarded range; nine of the 11 were male. Six of eight Asperger's children had right brain lesions; two DNETs; four mesial temporal sclerosis; one Rasmussen encephalitis. Four started epilepsy in their first year; one was retarded; five were female. Children who had no, or other, psychiatric disorder also showed &quot;mass&quot; lesions, or temporal sclerosis but with different biases as to side, sex, and very early onset of epilepsy from the autistic spectrum group. Very early onset of epilepsy, with lesions of embryonal origin, in the right temporal lobe, strongly predisposed males towards autistic regression. Such patients should be referred very early for consideration of urgent surgical treatment.
Nitric oxide is formed from L-arginine by a family of enzymes: nitric oxide synthase (NOS). The inducible nitric oxide synthase is activated by cytokines and it has been suggested that activation of the enzyme gives rise to neurotoxic levels of reactive nitrogen oxides. This enzyme has been shown to be localized in multiple sclerosis (MS) lesions but the role of nitric oxide formation in the pathogenesis of MS is still unclear. Using capillary electrophoresis, we have analysed nitrite and nitrate in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and demonstrate increased levels of reactive nitrogen products in 17 patients with MS. The total levels of oxidized nitrogen products were significantly elevated in MS patients when compared with controls. In patients with active MS, nitrite levels were significantly increased when compared with controls and patients in remission. This is supportive of NOS induction in MS. We suggest that capillary electrophoresis analysis of nitrite and nitrate in CSF could provide a clinically useful way to determine disease activity in MS.
The present study was built on the original report of Eichenbaum et al. [Eichenbaum, H., Fagan, A., Mathews, P. &amp; Cohen, N.J. (1988), Behav. Neurosci., 102, 3531-3542] on the contrasting effects of fornix lesion in different versions of an odour-guided discrimination task in rats, and attempted to extend this into a mouse model for the preferential loss of declarative memory seen in human senescence. Each of the two experiments reported here consisted of a two-stage paradigm, with an initial learning phase followed by a test phase. The information acquired in the first stage was identical in both experiments, i.e. the valence or reward contingency associated with six (three positive and three negative) arms of a radial maze. The only parameter which was varied between Experiment A and B, and also between the two successive stages within each experiment, was the way of presenting the arms to the mice, i.e. either in pairs (simultaneous discriminations) or one at a time (successive go : no-go discrimination). Performance in the first stage demonstrated that our aged mice were impaired in learning concurrent simultaneous discriminations but not successive go/no-go discrimination, thereby resembling that reported in rats with hippocampal damage. Most importantly, our present set of data supports the conclusion that two forms of memory expression for the same piece of acquired experience can be assessed in the same subjects by manipulating the way of presenting two arms that were previously experienced separately. These two forms of memory expressions are differentially affected in aged mice, thereby demonstrating the highly selective and specific deleterious effect of ageing.
When mouse hippocampal neuronal cultures, 2-3 weeks in vitro, were transiently exposed to combined glucose and oxygen deprivation (100% argon, 5% CO2, in glucose-free medium) for 90 min, extensive neuronal degeneration had occurred after 24 h of reoxygenation. When these cultures were preincubated with cyclosporin A, a calcineurin inhibitor and a blocker of the mitochondrial permeability transition, neuronal death diminished by 30-50%. Similarly, the cyclosporin A analogue, N-Me-Val-4-cyclosporin A, a potent blocker of the mitochondrial permeability transition with no significant calcineurin blocking activity, decreased cell death by 70-80%. Both cyclosporin A and N-Me-Val-4-cyclosporin A markedly attenuated calcium-induced swelling of isolated mouse brain mitochondria by blocking the mitochondrial permeability transition. The potassium thiocyanate-stabilized binding of cyclophilin D to mouse brain mitochondrial membranes was completely prevented by cyclosporin A and N-Me-Val-4-cyclosporin A. Our results strongly suggest that the mitochondrial permeability transition is involved in oxygen/glucose deprivation-induced cell death in vitro. Cyclophilin D and other components of the mitochondrial permeability transition may be important targets for neuroprotective and anti-ischaemic drugs.
The olfactory bulb responses to odours display evident temporal organization, both in the form of high-frequency oscillations and precisely replicating triplets of spikes. In this study, the frequency of replicating triplets in a sample of 118 individual responses from 45 cells was compared with that in simulations of non-homogeneous Poisson processes, constructed from the experimental post-stimulus time histograms (PSTHs). In a large majority of the records, replicating triplets (to a precision of 0.5 ms) are found to be more numerous in the physiological records; in some of them, they are approximately 10 times more abundant. An excess of precisely replicating triplets is also found in records where no oscillations are apparent in the autocorrelograms. Triplet replication thus seems a more robust phenomenon than transient oscillation. Not unlike fast oscillations observed in other preparations, replicating triplets produced by a given mitral cell are generally observed only during a restricted period of time of the respiratory cycle (at least in the case of the responses under olfactory stimulation). No relation was found, however, between the nature and strength of the olfactory stimulus and the frequency of replicating patterns. In the absence of olfactory stimulation, some mitral cell discharges also contain more replicating triplets than the non-homogeneous Poisson simulations. Thus, replicating triplets in single-cell discharges seem to play only an indirect role in the coding of olfactory information at the mitral cell output level.
Glutamate plays a critical role in neuroadaptations induced by drugs of abuse. This study determined whether expression of the NMDAR1 subunit of the NMDA receptor is altered by repeated amphetamine administration. We quantified NMDAR1 mRNA (using in situ hybridization with 35S-labelled oligonucleotide probes) and immunolabelling (using immunocytochemistry with 35S-labelled secondary antibodies) in rat ventral midbrain, nucleus accumbens and prefrontal cortex after 3 or 14 days of withdrawal from five daily injections of saline or amphetamine sulphate (5 mg/kg/day). No changes in NMDAR1 expression were observed after 3 days of withdrawal, whereas significant decreases were observed in all regions after 14 days. NMDAR1 mRNA levels in midbrain were too low for reliable quantification, but immunolabelling was decreased significantly in intermediate and caudal portions of the substantia nigra. This may indicate a reduction in excitatory drive to substantia nigra dopaminergic neurons. In the nucleus accumbens, there were significant decreases in NMDAR1 mRNA levels (74.8 +/- 7. 7% of control, P &lt; 0.05) and immunolabelling (76.7 +/- 4.4%, P &lt; 0. 05). This may account for previously-reported decreases in the electrophysiological responsiveness of nucleus accumbens neurons to NMDA after chronic amphetamine treatment, and contribute to dysregulation of goal-directed behaviour. In prefrontal cortex, there was a significant decrease in NMDAR1 mRNA levels (76.1 +/- 7. 1%, P &lt; 0.05) and a trend towards decreased immunolabelling (89.5 +/- 7.0%). This may indicate decreased neuronal excitability within prefrontal cortex. A resultant decrease in activity of excitatory prefrontal cortical projections to nucleus accumbens or midbrain could synergize with local decreases in NMDAR1 to further reduce neuronal excitability in these latter regions.
Prostacyclin (PGI2) is a critical regulator of the cardiovascular system, via dilatation of vascular smooth muscle and inhibition of platelet aggregation (Moncada, S. 1982, Br. J. Pharmacol., 76, 3). Our previous studies demonstrated that a novel subtype of PGI2 receptor, which is clearly distinct from a peripheral subtype in terms of ligand specificity, is expressed in the rostral region of the brain, e.g. cerebral cortex, hippocampus, thalamus and striatum, and that (15R)-16-m-17,18,19,20-tetranorisocarbacyclin (15R-TIC) and 15-deoxy-16-m-17,18,19,20-tetranorisocarbacyclin (15-deoxy-TIC) specifically bind to the central nervous system (CNS)-specific PGI2 receptor. Here, we report that these CNS-specific PGI2 receptor ligands, including PGI2 itself, prevented the neuronal death. They prevented apoptotic cell death of hippocampal neurons induced by high (50%) oxygen atmosphere, xanthine + xanthine oxidase, and serum deprivation. IC50s for neuronal death were approximately 30 and 300 nM for 15-deoxy-TIC and 15R-TIC, respectively, which well correlated with the binding potency for the CNS-specific PGI2 receptor. 6-Keto-PGF1alpha (a stable metabolite of PGI2), peripheral nervous system-specific PGI2 ligands and other prostaglandins (PGs) than PGI2 did not show such neuroprotective effects. In vivo, 15R-TIC protected CA1 pyramidal neurons against ischaemic damage in gerbils. These results indicate that CNS-specific PGI2 ligands have neuronal survival-promoting activity both in vitro and in vivo, and may represent a new type of therapeutic drug for neurodegeneration.
The causes of death of transplanted neurons are not known in detail, but apoptotic mechanisms involving caspase activation are likely to play a role. We examined whether overexpression of the anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2 may enhance the survival of dopaminergic [tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-immunoreactive] grafted neurons. For this purpose, we prepared cells from embryonic day 13 ventral mesencephalon (VM) of mice overexpressing human Bcl-2, or from their wild-type littermates. The bcl-2 transgene was strongly expressed in these cells, and resulted in protection of neuronal cultures from death triggered by serum deprivation or exposure to staurosporine. To model pretransplantation stress more closely in vitro, we stored dissociated embryonic mesencephalic cells for 8 h in the same type of medium used for intracerebral transplantation. This resulted in massive cell death as quantified by lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) release, and increased DNA fragmentation. Although this cell loss was strongly reduced by a caspase inhibitor, Bcl-2 had no significant protective effect. Finally, mesencephalic cell suspensions were xenografted into the striatum of immunosuppressed hemiparkinsonian rats. Neither the survival of TH-immunopositive transplanted neurons nor the functional recovery of the rats was improved by Bcl-2, although the Bcl-2 protein was strongly expressed in transgenic grafts 5 weeks after implantation, and dopaminergic fibre outgrowth from the grafts was significantly improved. These data suggest that cell death in neuronal transplants involves apoptotic mechanisms that can bypass negative regulation by Bcl-2.
The consequences of juvenile isolation and morphine treatment during the isolation period on (social) behaviour and mu-, delta- and kappa-opioid receptors in adulthood were investigated by using a social interaction test and in vitro autoradiography in rats. Juvenile isolation reduced social exploration in adults. Morphine treatment counteracted this reduction in isolated rats, but decreased social exploration in nonisolated rats. Self-grooming and nonsocial exploration were enhanced after juvenile isolation. Morphine treatment had no effect on self-grooming, but suppressed nonsocial exploration in isolated rats. With respect to the opioid receptors, juvenile isolation resulted in regiospecific increases in mu-binding sites with a 58% increase in the basolateral amygdala and a 33% increase in the bed nucleus of stria terminalis. Morphine treatment in isolated rats reversed this upregulation in both areas. The number of delta-binding sites did not differ between the experimental groups. A general upregulation of kappa-binding sites was observed after juvenile isolation, predominantly in the cortical regions, the hippocampus and the substantia nigra. Morphine treatment did not affect the upregulation of kappa-receptors. The results show that juvenile isolation during the play period causes long-term effects on social and nonsocial behaviours and on the number of mu- and kappa- but not delta-opioid receptors in distinct brain areas. The number of mu-receptors in the basolateral amygdala appears to be negatively correlated with the amount of social exploration in adult rats.

Dysfunctions of central monoaminergic systems are important elements of the leading biological hypotheses of suicide and depression. The purpose of the present paper was to study the levels and the relationships between the serotonin metabolite 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA), the dopamine metabolite homovanillic acid (HVA) and the norepinephrine metabolite 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol (MHPG) in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) in 120 hospitalised suicide attempters and 47 controls (healthy volunteers or patients admitted for minor surgery). The suicide attempters showed significantly lower HVA levels (174+/-82 vs. 216+/-96 nmol/L, P=0.004), HVA/5HIAA ratios (1.6+/-0.5 vs. 2.1+/-0.6, P=0.0001) and HVA/MHPG ratios (4.2+/-2.1 vs. 4.8+/-1.7, P=0.02) than the controls. The correlations between the monoamine metabolites were markedly lower in patients than in controls. CSF 5-HIAA showed no significant differences between patients and controls (107+/-40 vs. 108+/-51 nmol/L) or between violent and non-violent attempters (112+/-58 vs. 105+/-33 nmol/L). The monoamine metabolites showed no significant differences between survivors and patients who subsequently completed suicide, or between suicide attempters subgrouped by psychiatric diagnoses. The results suggest that low HVA levels and altered relationships between the monoamine metabolites are associated with suicidal behaviour.
With the purpose of comparing temperament traits in subjects who have been violent towards others and with subjects who have shown self-directed violence, 34 male suicide attempters and 34 male violent offenders were matched for age and psychiatric diagnosis. Violent offenders with a history of suicide attempts were excluded. Temperament traits were assessed by means of the Karolinska Scales of Personality. The temperament profiles of suicide attempters and violent offenders were very similar, with high trait anxiety and very low socialization. Violent offenders displayed significantly higher social desirability (P &lt; 0.001). Suicide attempters tended to have higher indirect aggression and monotony avoidance. Impulsiveness, verbal aggression, and inhibition of aggression were within the normal range in both groups. There were substantial temperamental similarities between suicide attempters and violent offenders. In order to disentangle the differential mechanisms behind aggression towards self and others, we probably need to consider historical as well as current situation factors in a systematic way.
The aims of this study were to assess the quality of life among 120 schizophrenic patients who were attending a psychiatric outpatient department and to investigate which socio-demographic and clinical factors influenced their subjective quality of life. Quality of life was assessed by the Lanchashire quality of life profile, social functioning was judged according to the Global Assessment of Functioning (GAF) scale, and psychopathology was rated by means of the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS). Both objective and subjective life conditions indicated an impaired quality of life for the patients. The areas of finance and work had the largest proportion of dissatisfied patients. Socio-demographic indicators showed to have a weak influence on the patient's self-assessed quality of life while clinical factors, such as psychopathology, strongly influenced the patient's life satisfaction. It is concluded that there is a need for further emphasise on the clinical, financial, and social interventions for this group of patients.
The mechanisms of recovery of manual dexterity after unilateral lesion of the sensorimotor cortex in adult primates remain a matter of debate. It has been proposed that the cortical zone adjacent to the lesion may take over part of the function of the damaged cortex. To investigate further this possibility, two adult (4-5 years old) macaque monkeys were trained to perform a natural precision-grip task to assess hand dexterity. Intracortical microstimulations (ICMS) were used to map the hand area in M1 on both hemispheres. Ibotenic acid was then injected intracortically to damage the representation in M1 of the preferred hand. Subsequent histological analysis indicated that the hand representation in M1 was indeed lesioned, but, due to a spread of ibotenic acid, the lesion encroached a significant extent of the hand representation in the primary somatosensory cortex. A few minutes after infusion of ibotenic acid, there was a complete loss of dexterity of the preferred hand, which lasted for 1-2 months. Later, a progressive functional recovery of the affected hand took place over a 3- to 4-month period, reaching a stable level corresponding to 30% of the pre-lesion behavioral score. ICMS remapping, conducted nine months after the lesion, revealed that stimulation of the intact or lesioned M1 did not induce any visible movement of the recovered hand. The M1 hand representation on the intact hemisphere was similar to that observed before the lesion. Transient inactivation of the M1 hand/arm areas or of the dorsal and ventral premotor cortical areas (PM) on both hemispheres was undertaken by using microinjections of the GABA-agonist muscimol. Inactivations of M1 had no effect. Inhibition of PM in the damaged hemisphere suppressed the recovered manual dexterity of the affected hand. These results suggest that PM plays a significant role in the incomplete functional recovery of hand dexterity following unilateral damage of the sensorimotor cortex in adult monkeys.
It is commonly accepted that perceptually and behaviorally relevant events are reflected in changes of activity in largely distributed neuronal populations. However, it is much less clear how these populations organize dynamically to cope with momentary computational demands. In order to decipher the dynamic organization of cortical ensembles, the activities of up to seven neurons of the primary motor cortex were recorded simultaneously. A monkey was trained to perform a pointing task in six directions. During each trial, two signals were presented consecutively. The first signal provided prior information about the movement direction, whereas the second called for the execution of that movement. Dynamic interactions between the activity of simultaneously recorded neurons were studied by analyzing individual epochs of synchronized firing (&quot;unitary events&quot;). Unitary events were defined as synchronizations which occur significantly more often than expected by chance on the basis of the neurons' firing rates. The aim of the study was to describe the relationships between synchronization dynamics and changes in activity of the same neurons during the preparation and execution of voluntary movements. The data show that even neurons which were classified, on the basis of the change in their firing rate, to be functionally involved in different processes (e.g., preparation or execution related, different directional tuning) synchronized their spiking activity significantly. These findings indicate that the synchronization of individual action potentials and the modulation of the firing rate may serve different and complementary functions underlying the cortical organization of cognitive motor processes.

The aim of this study was to determine whether the growth of axons along the nigrostriatal pathway from fetal dopamine cells, transplanted into the substantia nigra of young postnatal 6-OHDA-lesioned rats, is dependent on the age of the host brain. Neonatal rats were lesioned bilaterally by intraventricular injection of 6-OHDA at postnatal day 1 (P1) and received grafts of E14 ventral mesencephalon at day 3 (group P3), day 10 (group P10), or day 20 (group P20) into the right substantia nigra. One lesioned group was left untransplanted. Six months after surgery the animals were subjected to analysis of drug-induced rotation following injection of amphetamine, apomorphine, a D1 agonist (SKF38393), or a D2 agonist (Quinpirole). Animals transplanted intranigrally at day 3 and day 10 showed a strong amphetamine-induced rotational bias toward the side contralateral to the transplant. Animals transplanted into substantia nigra at P20, like the lesioned control animals, showed no rotational bias. Apomorphine and selective D1 and D2 agonists induced ipsilateral turning behavior in the P3 and P10 group, but not in the P20 or the lesion control groups. Immunofluorescence histochemistry in combination with retrograde axonal tracing, using FluoroGold injection into the ipsilateral caudate-putamen showed colocalization of tyrosine hydroxylase and FluoroGold in large numbers of transplanted neurons in the animals transplanted at postnatal day 3 and postnatal day 10, which was not observed in the group P20. The lesion control group showed a 90% complete lesion of the TH-positive cells in the substantia nigra while largely sparing the neurons in the ventral tegmental area. The results indicate that intranigral grafts can be placed accurately and survive well within the substantia nigra region at various time points during postnatal development. Furthermore, embryonic dopamine neurons have the ability to extend axons along the nigrostriatal pathway and reconnect with the dopamine-depleted striatum when transplanted at postnatal day 3 and postnatal day 10, but not at postnatal day 20.
Viral vectors have recently been used successfully to transfer genes and express different proteins in the brain. This review discusses the requirements to consider human clinical trials in which recombinant adeno-associated virus vectors are used to transfer the genes necessary to produce l-dihydroxyphenylalanine (l-dopa) directly into the striatum of Parkinson's patients. Preclinical data that apply to the criteria defined as prerequisite for clinical trials are discussed. Thus, in animal models using recombinant adeno-associated virus vectors it has been demonstrated that l-dopa can be synthesized in the striatum after in vivo transduction. In addition, these l-dopa levels are sufficient to affect behavior in a dopamine-deficient animal model, the expression is extremely long-lasting, and the ability to transcriptionally regulate tyrosine hydroxylase has been demonstrated but not fully characterized. However, while immune responses to recombinant adeno-associated virus infection in the periphery have been studied, direct assessment of the potential immune response in the brain has not been sufficiently defined. Therefore, the rationale for delivering l-dopa directly to the striatum to treat Parkinson's disease is sound and the preclinical data are promising but all the issues surrounding this strategy are not resolved.
Oxidative stress (OS) has been implicated in various degenerative diseases in aging. In an attempt to quantify OS in a cell model, we examined OS induced by incubating for 30 min with various free radical generators in PC12 cells by using the dichlorofluorescein (DCF) assay, modified for use by a fluorescent microplate reader. The nonfluorescent fluorescin derivatives (dichlorofluorescin, DCFH), after being oxidized by various oxidants, will become DCF and emit fluorescence. By quantifying the fluorescence, we were able to quantify the OS. Our results indicated that the fluorescence varied linearly with increasing concentrations (between 0.1 and 1 mM) of H2O2 and 2,2'-azobios(2-amidinopropane) dihydrochloride (AAPH; a peroxyl radical generator). By contrast, the fluorescence varied as a nonlinear response to increasing concentrations of 3-morpholinosydnonimine hydrochloride (SIN-1; a peroxynitrite generator), sodium nitroprusside (SNP; a nitric oxide generator), and dopamine. Dopamine had a biphasic effect; it decreased the DCF fluorescence, thus acting as an antioxidant, at concentrations &lt;500 microM in cells, but acted as a pro-oxidant by increasing the fluorescence at 1 mM. While SNP was not a strong pro-oxidant, SIN-1 was the most potent pro-oxidant among those tested, inducing a 70 times increase of fluorescence at a concentration of 100 microM compared with control. Collectively, due to its indiscriminate nature to various free radicals, DCF can be very useful in quantifying overall OS in cells, especially when used in conjunction with a fluorescent microplate reader. This method is reliable and efficient for evaluating the potency of pro-oxidants and can be used to evaluate the efficacy of antioxidants against OS in cells.
A great number of epidemiological studies have demonstrated that the frequency of the epsilon4 allele of the apolipoprotein E gene (APOE) is markedly higher in sporadic and in familial late onset Alzheimer disease (AD). In the frontal cortex of AD patients, oxidative damage is elevated. We address the hypothesis that the APOE genotype and reactive oxygen-mediated damage are linked in the frontal cortex of AD patients. We have related the APOE genotype to the levels of lipid oxidation (LPO) and to the antioxidant status, in frontal cortex tissues from age-matched control and AD cases with different APOE genotypes. LPO levels were significantly elevated in tissues from Alzheimer's cases which are homozygous for the epsilon4 allele of APOE, compared to AD epsilon3/epsilon3 cases and controls. Activities of enzymatic antioxidants, such as catalase and glutathione peroxidase (GSH-PX), were also higher in AD cases with at least one epsilon4 allele of APOE, while superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity was unchanged. In the frontal cortex, the concentration of apoE protein was not different between controls and AD cases, and was genotype independent. The Ginkgo biloba extract (EGb 761), the neurosteroid dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) and human recombinant apoE3 (hapoE3rec) were able to protect control, AD epsilon3/epsilon3 and epsilon3/epsilon4 cases against hydrogen peroxide/iron-induced LPO, while hapoE4rec was completely ineffective. Moreover, EGb 761 and DHEA had no effect in homozygous epsilon4 cases. These results demonstrate that oxidative stress-induced injury and protection by antioxidants in the frontal cortex of AD cases are related to the APOE genotype.

The S100 family of calcium binding proteins has been shown to be involved in a variety of physiological functions, such as regulation of enzyme function, cell motility, modification of extracellular matrix, and cell proliferation. Several members of the S100 family are expressed in the nervous system, but their functional roles are still largely obscure. The Mts1 gene codes for the S100A4 protein, which has been implicated in the control of cell proliferation and metastasis activity of tumor cells. We have used immunohistochemistry to examine the expression pattern of the Mts1 protein in the adult rat spinal cord and how this expression is influenced by peripheral nerve or dorsal root injury. Mts1 immunoreactivity (IR) was present only in white matter astrocytes in the intact spinal cord. Sciatic nerve as well as dorsal root injury induced a marked and prolonged up-regulation of Mts1-IR in astrocytes in the region of the dorsal funiculus containing the central processes of the injured primary sensory neurons. These findings suggest that Mts1 plays a unique physiological role in white matter astrocytes as well as in the response of astrocytes to degeneration of myelinated axons.
Vestibular evoked potentials (VsEPs) were measured in normal mice and in mice homozygous for the head tilt mutation (het/het, abbr. het). The het mice lack otoconia, the inertial mass critical for natural stimulation of inner ear gravity receptors. Our findings demonstrate that vestibular neural responses to pulsed linear acceleration are absent in het mice. The results: (1) confirm that adequate sensory stimuli fail to activate gravity receptors in the het model; and (2) serve as definitive evidence that far-field vestibular responses to pulsed linear acceleration depend critically on otolith end organs. The C57BL/6JEi-het mouse may be an excellent model of gravity receptor sensory deprivation.
Brain edema sufficient to cause intracranial hypertension and brain herniation remains a major cause of mortality in acute liver failure (ALF). Studies in experimental animal models of ALF suggest a role for ammonia in the pathogenesis of both encephalopathy and brain edema in this condition. As part of a series of studies to evaluate the therapeutic efficacy of ammonia-lowering agents, groups of rats with ALF caused by hepatic devascularization were treated with L-ornithine-L-aspartate (OA), an agent shown previously to be effective in reducing blood ammonia concentrations in both experimental and human chronic liver failure. Treatment of rats in ALF with infusions of OA (0.33 g/kg/h, intravenously) resulted in normalization of plasma ammonia concentrations and in a significant delay in onset of severe encephalopathy. More importantly, brain water content was significantly reduced in OA-treated rats with ALF. These protective effects of OA were accompanied by increased plasma concentrations of several amino acids including glutamate, gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), taurine, and alanine, as well as the branched-chain amino acids, leucine, isoleucine, and valine. Increased availability of glutamate following OA treatment provides the substrate for the major ammonia-removal mechanism (glutamine synthetase). Plasma (but not cerebrospinal fluid) glutamine concentrations were increased 2-fold (P &lt;.02) in OA-treated rats, consistent with increased muscle glutamine synthesis. Direct measurement of glutamine synthetase activities revealed a 2-fold increase following OA treatment. These findings demonstrate a significant ammonia-lowering effect of OA together with a protective effect on the development of encephalopathy and brain edema in this model of ALF.
We have analyzed a series of HLA region markers in 207 UK Caucasoids with early-onset myasthenia gravis (EOMG, onset before age 40), where there is a strong female bias. The well known associations with HLA-DR3 and -B8 have now proved to be significantly stronger in the 165 females than in the 42 males. In patients (of either sex) lacking -DR3, there was also a significant increase in HLA-DR2. Although the muscle weakness in EOMG is clearly mediated by autoantibodies, the associations are consistently stronger with HLA-B8 (in class I) than with HLADR3 (in class II), as confirmed here. We therefore typed 87-137 cases for polymorphisms at four loci in the intervening class III region, and also at three in the adjacent stretch of class I. At each locus, one allele tended to co-occur with HLA-B8 and showed strong and highly significant associations in the patients. There appeared to be a region of maximal susceptibility extending from HSP70 (in class III) past HLA-B and HLA-C at least 600 kb telomerically into the class I region, which is now being mapped in detail. Any candidate genes here that act shortly after puberty may allow more precise localization of susceptibility.
beta-Sarcoglycan, one of the subunits of the sarcoglycan complex, is a transmembranous glycoprotein which associates with dystrophin and is the molecule responsible for beta-sarcoglycanopathy, a Duchenne-like autosomal recessive muscular dystrophy. To develop an animal model of beta-sarcoglycanopathy and to clarify the role of beta-sarcoglycan in the pathogenesis of the muscle degeneration in vivo, we developed beta-sarcoglycan-deficient mice using a gene targeting technique. beta-Sarcoglycan-deficient mice (BSG(-)(/-)mice) exhibited progressive muscular dystrophy with extensive degeneration and regeneration. The BSG(-)(/-)mice also exhibited muscular hypertrophy characteristic of beta-sarcoglycanopathy. Immunohistochemical and immunoblot analyses of BSG(-)(/-)mice demonstrated that deficiency of beta-sarcoglycan also caused loss of all of the other sarcoglycans as well as of sarcospan in the sarcolemma. On the other hand, laminin-alpha2, alpha- and beta-dystroglycan and dystrophin were still present in the sarcolemma. However, the dystrophin-dystroglycan complex in BSG(-)(/-)mice was unstable compared with that in the wild-type mice. Our data suggest that loss of the sarcoglycan complex and sarcospan alone is sufficient to cause muscular dystrophy, that beta-sarcoglycan is an important protein for formation of the sarcoglycan complex associated with sarcospan and that the role of the sarcoglycan complex and sarcospan may be to strengthen the dystrophin axis connecting the basement membrane with the cytoskeleton.

In this study, we compared digital and analog versions of a functional electrical stimulator designed to suppress tremor. The device was based on a closed-loop control system designed to attenuate movements in the tremor frequency range, without significantly affecting slower, voluntary movements. Testing of the digital filter was done on three patients with Parkinsonian tremor and the results compared to those of a functional electrical stimulation device based on an analog filter evaluated in a previous study. Additional testing of both the analog and digital filters was done on three subjects with no neurological impairment performing tremor-like movements and slow voluntary movements. We found that the digital controller provided a mean attenuation of 84%, compared to 65% for the analog controller.
We carried out flow cytometric analysis for multiparametric evaluation of cell surface markers related to cellular functions. Specifically, we studied the expression of CD4, CD8, CD3, CD16, CD19, HLA-DR, and CD14 macrophage receptors expression and cell cycle progression on cells exposed to ELF-EMF. In addition, we tested the effects of ELF-EMF on CD4 mRNA protein transcription and translation and the cell-cycle progression using an immunofluorescence method. Our data show that same CD surface marker expression are weakly influenced by electromagnetic fields, with no differences between cells exposed or not exposed to ELF-EMFs. However, when the CD4 protein generation was studied, an indication of protein production was found in lymphocytes exposed to ELF-EMF, as evidenced by immunofluorescence, Western blotting and RT-PCR analysis. CD16 and CD14 expression were affected by EMF exposure at all times studied (24, 48, 72 h). The results obtained with cell cycle analysis show that after 48 h of exposure to ELF-EMF, PHA-activated and not activated cells in S phase increase with respect to non-exposed cells. The findings from this study demonstrate that under our defined experimental conditions there is evidence that ELF-EMF has a slight effect on CD4, CD14 and CD16 receptor expression, while the other CD receptors are not affected.

Prior research showed that attentional deficits are observed in Alzheimer's disease (AD). These deficits can further impair other cognitive processes. The present experiment was designed to study the shifts in attention induced by a noradrenergic drug (S 12024-2) through their electrophysiological correlates in 12 outpatients with mild AD, using an auditory oddball paradigm. The P3a component, known to be related to automatic attentional processing, was increased by the drug, whereas no changes occurred either in PN or in P3b, which are considered to reflect conscious processing. These results point to an involvement of the noradrenergic system in the modulation of automatic attentional processing, and provide evidence for weakening of the orienting reflex in AD, due to a possible noradrenergic deficit in patients with mild AD.

Numerous bacterial toxins recognize the actin cytoskeleton as a target. The clostridial binary toxins (Iota and C2 families) ADP-ribosylate the actin monomers causing the dissociation of the actin filaments. The large clostridial toxins from Clostridium difficile, Clostridium sordellii and Clostridium novyi inactivate, by glucosylation, proteins from the Rho family that regulate actin polymerization. In contrast, the cytotoxic necrotic factor from Escherichia coli activates Rho by deamidation and increases the formation of actin filaments. The enterotoxin of Bacteroides fragilis is a protease specific for E-cadherin and it promotes the reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton. The bacterial toxins that modify the actin cytoskeleton induce various cell disfunctions including changes in cell barrier permeability and disruption of intercellular junctions.



The postulate that venous adaptation assists postural baroreflex regulation by shifting the hydrostatic indifference point (HIP) toward the heart was investigated in eight midazolam-sedated newborn piglets. Whole body head-up (+15, +30, and +45 degrees ) and head-down (-15 and -30 degrees ) tilt provided a physiological range of orthostatic strain. HIP for all positive tilts shifted toward the heart (P &lt; 0.05), +45 degrees HIP shifted most [6.7 +/- 0.3, 5.9 +/- 0.5, and 3.6 +/- 0.3 (SE) cm caudal to right atrium on days 1, 3, and 6, respectively]. HIP for negative tilts (3.0 +/- 0.2 cm caudal to right atrium) did not shift with postnatal age. Euthanasia on day 6 caused 2.1 +/- 0.3-cm caudal displacement of HIP for positive and negative tilts (P &lt; 0.05). HIP proximity to right atrium was not altered by alpha-, beta-adrenoceptor and cholinoceptor blockade on day 5. It is concluded that early HIP migration reflects enhancement of venous pressure control to head-up orthostatic strain. The effect is independent of baroreflex-mediated adrenoceptor and cholinoceptor mechanisms.
Early overuse of a lesioned forelimb, induced by immediate immobilization of the intact forelimb after a cortical lesion, has been reported to increase tissue damage and delay functional recovery. To investigate if early training without immobilization of the intact forelimb could increase tissue loss and reduce recovery, the middle cerebral artery was ligated distal to the striatal branches in 25 male spontaneously hypertensive rats. Control rats were housed in standard cages, training rats were transferred to larger cages allowing various activities and received additional special training 1 hour a day starting either 24 hours or 7 days after the ligation. The rats were tested on a rotating pole, in a leg placement test, and in a water maze and they were killed 6 weeks after the ligation. Delayed training resulted in the best overall performance; however, both training groups performed better than standard rats on the rotating pole. The cortical infarct volume was larger in the early training group than in the other two groups (P &lt; .005), possibly related to increased glutamate release and peri-infarct cortical hyperexcitability.
As shown in the accompanying paper, choline acetyltransferase, so far the best histochemical marker for identifying cholinergic structures, has at least one alternative splice variant. The variant, termed pChAT because of its preferential expression in peripheral organs, encouraged us to study peripheral, probably cholinergic, cells and fibers by immunohistochemistry using an antiserum against a peptide specific for pChAT. We chose the larynx of the rat, since cholinergic innervation in this organ has been well established by physiological studies, but not sufficiently by chemical neuroanatomy. Neuronal somata positive for pChAT were found in the intralaryngeal ganglia. Our double staining study indicated that these somata always possessed acetylcholinesterase activity, while the reverse did not hold true. Nerve fibers positive for pChAT were distributed widely in the intrinsic laryngeal muscles, laryngeal glands, blood vessels and laryngeal mucosa. In the intrinsic laryngeal muscles, pChAT-positive terminals were apposed closely to motor end-plates which were stained positively for acetylcholinesterase activity. Denervation experiments revealed that there were three types of pChAT-positive fibers in the larynx: (1) special visceral efferent fibers to the intrinsic laryngeal muscles, which decreased dramatically in number after vagotomy; (2) parasympathetic postganglionic fibers near the laryngeal glands and blood vessels, which appeared unaffected after vagotomy or cervical sympathectomy: and (3) afferent fibers innervating the laryngeal mucosa, which reduced markedly in number after vagotomy performed distal, but not proximal, to the nodose ganglion. Such afferent fibers remained unchanged following the neonatal capsaicin treatment, suggesting their independence from those containing substance P.
This study was designed to examine the developmental and cognitive correlates of theory of mind (ToM) and emotion recognition ability in children with autism (N = 20), with pervasive developmental disorder-not otherwise specified (PDD-NOS) (N = 20), and in psychiatric control children (N = 20). The diagnostic groups were person-to-person matched on age and verbal IQ. The age of the children was between 8 and 18 years; their Full Scale IQ was at least 65. The test battery included tasks for the matching and the context recognition of emotional expressions, and a set of first- and second-order ToM tasks. The relationships between composite domain scores and the subjects' age, Verbal IQ, Performance IQ, verbal memory, visual memory, and gender were examined in bivariate and multivariate analyses. Further, the subjects who reliably and consistently passed the tasks of a domain and those who could not were compared on developmental and cognitive characteristics. Overall, the results of the various analyses converged and indicated that verbal memory, Performance IQ, age and gender were the best predictors of social cognitive ability.
Chemokines are low molecular weight chemotactic peptides that bind seven transmembrane-spanning, G protein-coupled receptors and deliver signals leading to T cell costimulation, hematopoeisis, cytokine expression, T cell differentiation, and integrin activation. Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) is a CD4+ Th1-mediated demyelinating disease of the central nervous system (CNS) that serves as a model for multiple sclerosis (MS). A hallmark in the pathogenesis of this CNS demyelinating disease is the emigration of T cells and monocytes from the blood to the CNS. There are several considerations that suggest a role for chemokines in the influx of inflammatory cells and the resulting disease process including a tight temporal expression pattern with relationship to disease activity and prevention of disease development by in vivo neutralization. We review the evidence that temporal and spatial expressions of chemokines are crucial factors, complementing adhesion molecule upregulation, that regulate EAE and potentially MS disease activity as well as the functions of chemokines in Th1 and Th2 biology.
The manner in which characteristics of time series in the frequency domain can enhance discrimination between physiologic and parkinsonian tremor when tremor amplitude is low was examined. Rest tremor and postural tremor with and without visual feedback were recorded twice in the two hands of a group of patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) (n = 21) and a group of healthy control subjects (n = 30) using displacement laser systems. Recordings were analyzed quantitatively using amplitude and seven frequency domain characteristics. Postural tremor with no visual feedback allowed the most efficient discrimination between the two groups of subjects especially in velocity and acceleration (derived from displacement) and allowed identification of more patients with PD as separate from the range observed in the control group. Moreover, the frequency domain characteristics that were investigated identified the majority of the patients even when amplitude did not. After eliminating redundant (correlated) characteristics, it was found that the frequency composition of tremor in PD can be described adequately with four characteristics, which are the most reliable, independent, and discriminative elements for detecting early or subtle modifications in tremor. Also, a series of finger flexions was found to enhance physiologic tremor but not tremor in PD. Discrimination of low-amplitude tremor in PD from normal physiologic tremor is enhanced by examining the median frequency of oscillations, the concentration of power in the power spectrum, and the distribution of power in particular ranges. Tremor measurement should not be limited to acceleration data as some information is more visible in velocity time series.

The fully open state of heterotypic gap junction channels formed by pairing cells expressing connexin 32 (Cx32) with those expressing connexin 26 (Cx26) rectifies in a way that cannot be predicted from the current-voltage (I-V) relation of either homotypic channel. Using a molecular genetic analysis, we demonstrate that charged amino acids positioned in the amino terminus (M1 and D2) and first extracellular loop (E42) are major determinants of the current-voltage relation of the fully open state of homotypic and heterotypic channels formed by Cx26 and Cx32. The observed I-V relations of wild-type and mutant channels were closely approximated by those obtained with the electrodiffusive model of Chen and Eisenberg (Chen, D., and R. Eisenberg. 1993. Biophys. J. 64:1405-1421), which solves the Poisson-Nernst-Plank equations in one dimension using charge distribution models inferred from the molecular analyses. The rectification of the Cx32/Cx26 heterotypic channel results from the asymmetry in the number and position of charged residues. The model required the incorporation of a partial charge located near the channel surface to approximate the linear I-V relation observed for the Cx32*Cx26E1 homotypic channel. The best candidate amino acid providing this partial charge is the conserved tryptophan residue (W3). Incorporation of the partial charge of residue W3 and the negative charge of the Cx32E41 residue into the charge profile used in the Poisson-Nernst-Plank model of homotypic Cx32 and heterotypic Cx26/Cx32 channels resulted in I-V relations that closely resembled the observed I-V relations of these channels. We further demonstrate that some channel substates rectify. We suggest that the conformational changes associated with transjunctional voltage (V(j))-dependent gating to these substates involves a narrowing of the cytoplasmic entry of the channel that increases the electrostatic effect of charges in the amino terminus. The rectification that is observed in the Cx32/Cx26 heterotypic channel is similar although less steep than that reported for some rectifying electrical synapses. We propose that a similar electrostatic mechanism, which results in rectification through the open and substates of heterotypic channels, is sufficient to explain the properties of steeply rectifying electrical synapses.

The therapeutic alliance as rated by therapists and patients was assessed every 5 weeks throughout the treatment period in an in-patient treatment program for schizophrenic and other long-term mentally ill patients. The patients (N = 26) also assessed perceived curative factors (Curative Factors Questionnaire) and made therapy session evaluations (Session Evaluation Questionnaire). The most important patient rated factors showing a relationship with therapist-rated alliance were in the initial phase of treatment depth in the therapy sessions, in the working phase the experience of involvement in the treatment, and in the discharge phase perceived helpfulness of encouragement and reassurance. The investigation of curative factors, session evaluations, and alliance as rated by patients showed a relationship in the initial phase between alliance and encouragement, reassurance and awareness, in the working phase between alliance and depth in sessions and &quot;talking to someone who understands,&quot; and in the discharge phase between alliance and self-understanding and problem solution.
Quinone derivatives of DOPA, dopamine, and N-acetyldopamine inactivate tyrosine hydroxylase, the initial and rate-limiting enzyme in the biosynthesis of the catecholamine neurotransmitters. The parent catechols are inert in this capacity. The effects of the catecholquinones on tyrosine hydroxylase are prevented by antioxidants and reducing reagents but not by scavengers of hydrogen peroxide, hydroxyl radicals, or superoxide radicals. Quinone modification of tyrosine hydroxylase modifies enzyme sulfhydryl groups and results in the formation of cysteinyl-catechols within the enzyme. Catecholquinones convert tyrosine hydroxylase to a redox-cycling quinoprotein. Quinotyrosine hydroxylase causes the reduction of the transition metals iron and copper and may therefore contribute to Fenton-like reactions and oxidative stress in neurons. The discovery that a phenotypic marker for catecholamine neurons can be converted into a redox-active species is highly relevant for neurodegenerative conditions such as Parkinson's disease.
Both reactive dopamine metabolites and mitochondrial dysfunction have been implicated in the neurodegeneration of Parkinson's disease. Dopamine metabolites, dopamine quinone and reactive oxygen species, can directly alter protein function by oxidative modifications, and several mitochondrial proteins may be targets of this oxidative damage. In this study, we examined, using isolated brain mitochondria, whether dopamine oxidation products alter mitochondrial function. We found that exposure to dopamine quinone caused a large increase in mitochondrial resting state 4 respiration. This effect was prevented by GSH but not superoxide dismutase and catalase. In contrast, exposure to dopamine and monoamine oxidase-generated hydrogen peroxide resulted in a decrease in active state 3 respiration. This inhibition was prevented by both pargyline and catalase. We also examined the effects of dopamine oxidation products on the opening of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore, which has been implicated in neuronal cell death. Dopamine oxidation to dopamine quinone caused a significant increase in swelling of brain and liver mitochondria. This was inhibited by both the pore inhibitor cyclosporin A and GSH, suggesting that swelling was due to pore opening and related to dopamine quinone formation. In contrast, dopamine and endogenous monoamine oxidase had no effect on mitochondrial swelling. These findings suggest that mitochondrial dysfunction induced by products of dopamine oxidation may be involved in neurodegenerative conditions such as Parkinson's disease and methamphetamine-induced neurotoxicity.
Myelin basic protein (MBP) phosphorylation is a complex regulatory process that modulates the contribution of MBP to the stability of the myelin sheath. Recent research has demonstrated the modulation of MBP phosphorylation by mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) during myelinogenesis and in the demyelinating disease multiple sclerosis. Here we investigated the physiological regulation of MBP phosphorylation by MAPK during neuronal activity in the alveus, the myelinated output fibers of the hippocampus. Using a phosphospecific antibody that recognizes the predominant MAPK phosphorylation site in MBP, Thr95, we found that MBP phosphorylation is regulated by high-frequency stimulation but not low-frequency stimulation of the alveus. This change was blocked by application of tetrodotoxin, indicating that action potential propagation in axons is required. It is interesting that the change in MBP phosphorylation was attenuated by the reactive oxygen species scavengers superoxide dismutase and catalase and the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor N-nitro-L-arginine. Removal of extracellular calcium also blocked the changes in MBP phosphorylation. Thus, we propose that during periods of increased neuronal activity, calcium activates axonal nitric oxide synthase, which generates the intercellular messengers nitric oxide and superoxide and regulates the phosphorylation state of MBP by MAPK.
Synaptotagmin I has been suggested to function as a low-affinity calcium sensor for calcium-triggered exocytosis from neurons and neuroendocrine cells. We have studied the phosphorylation of synaptotagmin I by a variety of protein kinases in vitro and in intact preparations. SyntagI, the purified, recombinant, cytoplasmic domain of rat synaptotagmin I, was an effective substrate in vitro for Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII), protein kinase C (PKC), and casein kinase II (caskII). Sequencing of tryptic phosphopeptides from syntagI revealed that CaMKII and PKC phosphorylated the same residue, corresponding to Thr112, whereas caskII phosphorylated two residues, corresponding to Thr125 and Thr128. Endogenous synaptotagmin I was phosphorylated on purified synaptic vesicles by all three kinases. In contrast, no phosphorylation was observed on clathrin-coated vesicles, suggesting that phosphorylation of synaptotagmin I in vivo occurs only at specific stage(s) of the synaptic vesicle life cycle. In rat brain synaptosomes and PC12 cells, K+-evoked depolarization or treatment with phorbol ester caused an increase in the phosphorylation state of synaptotagmin I at Thr112. The results suggest the possibility that the phosphorylation of synaptotagmin I by CaMKII and PKC contributes to the mechanism(s) by which these two kinases regulate neurotransmitter release.
Prolactin (PRL) exerts numerous effects in the brain including induction of maternal behaviour, increased food intake, and inhibition of GnRH secretion. Knowledge about the distribution of PRL receptors (PRL-R) in the brain will be critical for investigating mechanisms of PRL-brain interactions during lactation. The present study aimed to investigate the distribution of PRL-R in specific hypothalamic nuclei of lactating rats by immunohistochemistry and to compare this distribution with that in dioestrous rats. Rats were perfused with 2% paraformaldehyde and brains were cut into coronal sections (18 microm) for immunostaining. Immunoreactivity was detected by the avidin biotin complex method using mouse monoclonal antibody U5. In dioestrous rats, PRL-R immunoreactivity was observed in the choroid plexus, three hypothalamic nuclei: medial preoptic, periventricular and arcuate, and in the median eminence. The number of labelled profiles per section in the medial preoptic and arcuate nuclei increased significantly (P&lt;0.05) in lactating rats (days 7-10 to post partum) when compared with dioestrous rats. Furthermore, in lactating rats, PRL-R immunoreactive neurons were identified in the cerebral cortex, substantia nigra and numerous additional hypothalamic nuclei including the ventromedial preoptic, ventrolateral preoptic, lateroanterior hypothalamic, ventrolateral hypothalamic, paraventricular hypothalamic, supraoptic, suprachiasmatic, and ventromedial hypothalamic nuclei. These observations assist our understanding of the multiple sites of PRL effects on brain function during lactation.
Lipocortin 1 (LC1, also called annexin 1), a Ca2(+)- and phospholipid-binding protein, is an important mediator of glucocorticoid action in the anterior pituitary gland. Previous studies based on immunoprecipitation and Western blot analysis suggest that LC1 is found intracellularly both in the cytoplasm and in association with membranes and also on the cell surface where it attaches to the membrane by a Ca2(+)-dependent mechanism. However, as yet it is unclear which anterior pituitary cell types express the protein. Accordingly, we have developed a method based on a combination of fluorescence activated cell (FAC) analysis/sorting and electron microscopy to detect and quantify intracellular LC1 in rat anterior pituitary cells and to identify the cell types in which it is expressed. In addition, we have measured cell surface LC1 and examined the influence of glucocorticoids on the cellular disposition of the protein. Anterior pituitary cells were dispersed with collagenase. For experiments measuring intracellular LC1, three cell fixation/permeabilisation methods were examined initially, i.e. (1) Zamboni's fluid (30 min) and Triton-X-100 (0.12%, 1 or 12 h); (2) paraformaldehyde (2%, 1 h) and Triton-X-100 (0.2%, 10 min); and (3) paraformaldehyde (0.2%, 15 min) and saponin (0.1%, 5 min). The protocol using paraformaldehyde/Triton-X-100 provided optimal preservation of cell ultrastructure and of LC1 immunoreactivity (ir-LC1) while also effectively permeabilising the cells; it was therefore used in subsequent studies. Using an anti-LC1 monoclonal antibody as a probe, 82+/-5% of the secretory cells in the heterogeneous anterior pituitary cell preparation were shown by FAC analysis to display specific fluorescence for intracellular ir-LC1. Morphological analysis and immunogold-histochemistry of cells separated by FAC sorting identified corticotrophs, lactotrophs, somatotrophs and gonadotrophs in the population displaying LC1 immunofluorescence. LC1 was also detected on the surface of anterior pituitary cells by FACS analysis. Incubation of anterior pituitary cells with dexamethasone or corticosterone (0.1 and 1.0 microM) prior to fixation and analysis produced a significant, concentration-dependent decrease in intracellular ir-LC1 and a concomitant increase in the amount of ir-LC1 detected on the surface of the cells; the effects of the two steroids were indistinguishable quantitatively. In conclusion, we report a novel method which permits (1) the detection and semi-quantitative measurement of intracellular and surface LC1 in anterior pituitary cells; and (2) the identification of the cell types in which the protein is found.
A comparative study was performed to investigate the differences and similarities of the neuropathological findings in the parkinsonism-dementia complex (PDC) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) of Guam, progressive supranuclear palsy and classic ALS. Based on the findings, it is proposed that (a) PDC is a discrete disease entity, (b) NFTs in Chamorro ALS are merely a background feature widely distributed in this population, (c) Chamorro ALS is a disease combined with classic ALS and neurofibrillary degeneration, (d) thus a subtype of &quot;Guam ALS&quot; is not present, and (e) PDC and ALS of Guam are different diseases.


The recognition of the anaplastic variant of oligodendroglioma is difficult, since it is not easy to identify histological prognostic factors. Among the latter, vascular productive changes have been inconsistently put in relation with survival. In 95 cases of operated oligodendrogliomas, endothelial cell hyperplasia, microvascular proliferations and capillary density were studied by histological and immunohistochemical methods. Capillary density was evaluated on CD31-stained sections by a grid of 100 squares placed in the ocular of the microscope. Statistical analysis was performed in order to compare these parameters with survival. A nodular growth pattern was observed more frequently among tumor grades 3-4 than among tumor grades 1-2. Endothelial cell hyperplasia was more frequent in nodular growth pattern, but it did not correlate with survival. The highest capillary density was found in nodular growth pattern, but it did not correlate with survival as well. Microvascular proliferations correlated with survival only in univariate, but not in multivariate analysis. Age, extent of surgical removal, year of surgery, post-operative Karnofsky score and MIB-1 LI remained associated with survival, as observed in a previous study.
The globus pallidus plays central roles in the basal ganglia circuitry involved in movement control as well as in cognitive and emotional functions. There is therefore great interest in the anatomic and electrophysiological characterization of this nucleus. Most pallidal neurons are GABAergic projecting cells, a large fraction of which express the calcium binding protein parvalbumin (PV). Here we show that PV-containing pallidal neurons coexpress Kv3. 1 and Kv3.2 K+ channel proteins and that both Kv3.1 and Kv3.2 antibodies coprecipitate both channel proteins from pallidal membrane extracts solubilized with nondenaturing detergents, suggesting that the two channel subunits are forming heteromeric channels. Kv3.1 and Kv3.2 channels have several unusual electrophysiological properties when expressed in heterologous expression systems and are thought to play special roles in neuronal excitability including facilitating sustained high-frequency firing in fast-spiking neurons such as interneurons in the cortex and the hippocampus. Electrophysiological analysis of freshly dissociated pallidal neurons demonstrates that these cells have a current that is nearly identical to the currents expressed by Kv3.1 and Kv3.2 proteins in heterologous expression systems, including activation at very depolarized membrane potentials (more positive than -10 mV) and very fast deactivation rates. These results suggest that the electrophysiological properties of native channels containing Kv3.1 and Kv3.2 proteins in pallidal neurons are not significantly affected by factors such as associated subunits or postranslational modifications that result in channels having different properties in heterologous expression systems and native neurons. Most neurons in the globus pallidus have been reported to fire sustained trains of action potentials at high-frequency. Kv3.1-Kv3.2 voltage-gated K+ channels may play a role in helping maintain sustained high-frequency repetitive firing as they probably do in other neurons.
Short-lasting, transient head displacements and near target fixation were used to measure the latency and early response gain of vestibularly evoked eye movements during lateral and fore-aft translations in rhesus monkeys. The latency of the horizontal eye movements elicited during lateral motion was 11.9 +/- 5.4 ms. Viewing distance-dependent behavior was seen as early as the beginning of the response profile. For fore-aft motion, latencies were different for forward and backward displacements. Latency averaged 7.1 +/- 9.3 ms during forward motion (same for both eyes) and 12.5 +/- 6.3 ms for the adducting eye (e.g., left eye during right fixation) during backward motion. Latencies during backward motion were significantly longer for the abducting eye (18.9 +/- 9.8 ms). Initial acceleration gains of the two eyes were generally larger than unity but asymmetric. Specifically, gains were consistently larger for abducting than adducting eye movements. The large initial acceleration gains tended to compensate for the response latencies such that the early eye movement response approached, albeit consistently incompletely, that required for maintaining visual acuity during the movement. These short-latency vestibuloocular responses could complement the visually generated optic flow responses that have been shown to exhibit much longer latencies.
Although it is widely agreed that cyclic AMP is necessary for the full expression of long-term potentiation of synaptic strength, it is unclear whether cyclic AMP or cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) play roles in the induction of long-term depression (LTD). We show here that two PKA inhibitors, H-89 (10 microM) and KT5720 (1 microM), are unable to block induction of LTD at Schaffer collateral-CA1 synapses in hippocampal slices in vitro. Rather, H-89 enhanced the magnitude of LTD induced by submaximal low-frequency stimulation. Raising [cGMP] with zaprinast (20 microM), a selective type V phosphodiesterase inhibitor, reversibly depressed synaptic potentials. However, coapplication of H-89 plus zaprinast converted this to a robust LTD that depended critically on activation of cyclic GMP-dependent protein kinase (PKG). Chemically induced LTD is activity-independent because it could be induced without stimulation and in tetrodotoxin (0.5 microM). Additionally, chemical LTD did not require activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate or GABA receptors and could be reversed by LTP. Stimulus-induced LTD occluded chemical LTD, suggesting a common expression mechanism. In contrast to bath application, postsynaptic infusion of H-89 into CA1 pyramidal neurons did not enhance LTD, suggesting a presynaptic site of action. Further evidence for a presynaptic locus was supplied by experiments where H-89 applied postsynaptically along with bath application of zaprinast was unable to produce chemical LTD. Thus simultaneous presynaptic generation of cyclic GMP and inhibition of PKA is sufficient to induce LTD of synaptic transmission at Schaffer collateral-CA1 synapses.
Long-term depression (LTD) of synaptic transmission can be induced by several mechanisms, one thought to involve Ca2+-dependent activation of postsynaptic nitric oxide (NO) synthase and subsequent diffusion of NO to the presynaptic terminal. We used the stable NO donor S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine (SNAP) to study the NO-dependent form of LTD at Schaffer collateral-CA1 synapses in vitro. SNAP (100 microM) enhanced the induction of LTD via a cascade that was blocked by the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist D-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (50 microM), NO guanylyl cyclase inhibitor 1H-[1,2,4] oxadiazolo [4,3-a] quinoxalin-1-one (10 microM), and the PKG inhibitor KT5823 (1 microM). We further show that LTD induced by low-frequency stimulation in the absence of SNAP also is blocked by KT5823 or Rp-8-(4-chlorophenylthio)-guanosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphorothioate (10 microM), cyclic guanosine 3',5' monophosphate-dependent protein kinase (PKG) inhibitors with different mechanisms of action. Furthermore SNAP-facilitated LTD was blocked when release from intracellular calcium stores was inhibited by ryanodine (10 microM). Finally, two cell-permeant antagonists of the cyclic ADP-ribose binding site on ryanodine receptors also were able to block the induction of LTD. These results support a cascade for induction of homosynaptic, NO-dependent LTD involving activation of guanylyl cyclase, production of guanosine 3',5' cyclic monophosphate and subsequent PKG activation. This process has an additional requirement for release of Ca2+ from ryanodine-sensitive stores, perhaps dependent on the second-messenger cyclic ADP ribose.
This study was motivated by the observation of early head movements (EHMs) occasionally generated before gaze shifts. Human subjects were presented with a visual or auditory target, along with an accompanying stimulus of the other modality, that either appeared at the same location as the target (enhancer condition) or at the diametrically opposite location (distractor condition). Gaze shifts generated to the target in the distractor condition sometimes were preceded by EHMs directed either to the side of the target (correct EHMs) or the side of the distractor (incorrect EHMs). During EHMs, the eyes performed compensatory eye movements to keep gaze stable. Incorrect EHMs were usually between 1 and 5 degrees in amplitude and reached peak velocities generally &lt;50 degrees /s. These metrics increased for more eccentric distractors. The dynamics of incorrect EHMs initially followed a trajectory typical of much larger head movements. These results suggest that incorrect EHMs are head movements that initially were planned to orient to the peripheral distractor. Furthermore gaze shifts preceded by incorrect EHMs had longer reaction latencies than gaze shifts not preceded by incorrect EHMs, suggesting that the processes leading to incorrect EHMs also serve to delay gaze-shift initiation. These results demonstrate a form of distraction analogous to the incorrect gaze shifts (IGSs) described in the previous paper and suggest that a motor program encoding a gaze shift to a distractor is capable of initiating either an IGS or an incorrect EHM. A neural program not strong enough to initiate an IGS nevertheless can initiate an incorrect EHM.
This study examines two current ideas regarding the control of eye-head gaze shifts. The first idea stems from recent studies involving electrical stimulation in the primate superior colliculus that suggest that a residual feedback of gaze displacement persists for approximately 100 ms after completion of a gaze shift. In light of this hypothesis, we examined the accuracy of gaze shifts generated very soon after the end of a preceding gaze shift. Human subjects were presented with a visual or auditory target along with an accompanying stimulus of the other modality. The accompanying stimulus appeared either at the same place as the target or at the diametrically opposite position, in which case it was termed a distractor. Subjects often made an incorrect gaze shift (IGS) in the direction of the distractor, followed by a recorrect gaze shift (RGS) in the direction of the target. We found that RGSs were accurately driven to the target, even when they followed IGSs by &lt;5 ms, regardless of the size of the IGS. The second idea is that a gaze shift cannot be cancelled in midflight. The end point of IGSs frequently fell short of the distractor. The dynamics of these movements, and of the head movement components during the IGSs in particular, suggests that these hypometric IGSs were planned for a much larger excursion but were truncated and superceded by the reversing RGSs. These results emphasize that the gaze shifting system can change the desired goal of a gaze shift in midflight and that the superceding movement is accurate regardless of the metrics or timing of the preceding movement.
The horizontal angular vestibuloocular reflex (VOR) evoked by high-frequency, high-acceleration rotations was studied in five squirrel monkeys with intact vestibular function. The VOR evoked by steps of acceleration in darkness (3,000 degrees /s(2) reaching a velocity of 150 degrees /s) began after a latency of 7.3 +/- 1.5 ms (mean +/- SD). Gain of the reflex during the acceleration was 14.2 +/- 5.2% greater than that measured once the plateau head velocity had been reached. A polynomial regression was used to analyze the trajectory of the responses to steps of acceleration. A better representation of the data was obtained from a polynomial that included a cubic term in contrast to an exclusively linear fit. For sinusoidal rotations of 0.5-15 Hz with a peak velocity of 20 degrees /s, the VOR gain measured 0.83 +/- 0.06 and did not vary across frequencies or animals. The phase of these responses was close to compensatory except at 15 Hz where a lag of 5.0 +/- 0.9 degrees was noted. The VOR gain did not vary with head velocity at 0.5 Hz but increased with velocity for rotations at frequencies of &gt;/=4 Hz (0. 85 +/- 0.04 at 4 Hz, 20 degrees /s; 1.01 +/- 0.05 at 100 degrees /s, P &lt; 0.0001). No responses to these rotations were noted in two animals that had undergone bilateral labyrinthectomy indicating that inertia of the eye had a negligible effect for these stimuli. We developed a mathematical model of VOR dynamics to account for these findings. The inputs to the reflex come from linear and nonlinear pathways. The linear pathway is responsible for the constant gain across frequencies at peak head velocity of 20 degrees /s and also for the phase lag at higher frequencies being less than that expected based on the reflex delay. The frequency- and velocity-dependent nonlinearity in VOR gain is accounted for by the dynamics of the nonlinear pathway. A transfer function that increases the gain of this pathway with frequency and a term related to the third power of head velocity are used to represent the dynamics of this pathway. This model accounts for the experimental findings and provides a method for interpreting responses to these stimuli after vestibular lesions.
Intracellular recordings from 65 phrenic motoneurons (PMNs) in the C5 segment and recordings of C5 phrenic nerve activity were made in 27 pentobarbitone-anesthetized, paralyzed, and artificially ventilated adult cats. Inhibition of phrenic nerve activity and PMN membrane potential hyperpolarization (48/55 PMNs tested) was seen after stimulation of the internal intercostal nerve (IIN) at a mean latency to onset of 10.3 +/- 2.7 ms. Reversal of IIN-evoked hyperpolarization (n = 14) by injection of negative current or diffusion of chloride ions occurred in six cases, and the hyperpolarization was reduced in seven others. Stimulation of the IIN thus activates chloride-dependent inhibitory synaptic inputs to most PMNs. The inhibitory phrenic nerve response to IIN stimulation was reduced by ipsilateral transection of the lateral white matter at the C3 level and was converted to an excitatory response by complete ipsilateral cord hemisection at the same level. After complete ipsilateral hemisection of the spinal cord at C3 level, stimulation of the IIN evoked both excitatory and inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs and IPSPs) in PMNs (n = 10). It was concluded that IIN stimulation can evoke both excitatory and inhibitory responses in PMNs using purely spinal circuitry, but that excitatory responses are normally suppressed by a descending pathway in intact animals. Fifteen PMNs were tested for possible presynaptic convergence of inputs in these reflex pathways, using test and conditioning stimuli. Significant enhancement (&gt;20%) of IPSPs were seen in seven of eight IIN-evoked responses using pericruciate sensorimotor cortex (SMC) conditioning stimuli, but only one of five IIN-evoked responses were enhanced by superior laryngeal nerve (SLN) conditioning stimuli. The IIN-evoked IPSP was enhanced in one of two motoneurons by stimulation of the contralateral phrenic nerve. It was concluded that presynaptic interneurons were shared by the IIN and SMC pathways, but uncommonly by other pathways. These results indicate that PMNs receive inhibitory synaptic inputs from ascending thoracocervical pathways and from spinal interneurons. These inhibitory reflex pathways activated by afferent inputs from the chest wall may play a significant role in the control of PMN discharge, in parallel with disfacilitation following reduced activity in bulbospinal neurons projecting to PMNs.
Using the model of hypoxia-hypoglycemia (HH) in rat brain slices, we asked whether glutamate transmission is altered following a brief HH episode. The HH challenge was conducted by exposing slices to a glucose-free medium aerated with 95% N2-5% CO2, for approximately 4 min, and glutamate transmission in the hippocampal CA1 region was monitored at different post HH times. In slices examined &lt;/=8 h post HH, CA1 synaptic field potentials are comparable in amplitude to controls, but are less sensitive to experimental manipulations designed to attenuate intracellular Ca2+ signals, as compared with controls. Reducing calcium influx, by applying a nonspecific calcium channel blocker Co2+ or lowering external Ca2+, attenuated CA1 synaptic potentials much less in challenged slices than in controls. Buffering intracellular Ca2+ by bis-(o-aminophenoxy)-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid-AM (BAPTA-AM) attenuated CA1 synaptic potentials in control but not in slices post HH. Furthermore, minimally evoked excitatory postsynaptic currents displayed a lower failure rate in post-hypoxic CA1 neurons compared with controls. Based on these convergent observations, we suggest that evoked CA1 glutamate transmission is altered in the first several hours after brief hypoxia, likely resulting from alterations in intracellular Ca2+ homeostasis and/or Ca2+-dependent processes governing transmitter release.
Inflammatory pain involves the sensitization of both primary afferent and spinal cord neurons. To explore the neurochemical changes that contribute to inflammatory pain, we have examined the expression and ligand-induced internalization of the substance P receptor (SPR) in the spinal cord in acute, short-term, and long-term inflammatory pain states. These inflammatory models included unilateral injection of formalin (8-60 min), carrageenan (3 hr), and complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA; 3 d) into the rat hindpaw as well as adjuvant-induced polyarthritis (21 d). In acute inflammatory pain there is ongoing release of substance P (SP) as measured by SPR internalization in lamina I neurons at both 8 and 60 min after formalin injection. Although there is no tonic release of SP in short-term inflammatory pain, at 3 hr after carrageenan injection, SP is released in response to both noxious and non-noxious somatosensory stimulation with SPR internalization being observed in neurons located in both laminae I and III-IV. In long-term inflammatory pain models (CFA and polyarthritis) the same pattern of SP release and SPR activation occurs as is observed in short-term inflammation with the addition that there is a significant upregulation of the SPR in lamina I neurons. These results suggest that SPR internalization might serve as a marker of the contribution of ongoing primary afferent input in acute and persistent pain states. These stereotypical neurochemical changes suggest that there are unique neurochemical signatures for acute, short-term, and long-term inflammatory pain.
The visual system is continually inundated with information received by the eyes. Only a fraction of this information appears to reach visual awareness. This process of selection is one of the functions ascribed to visual attention. Although many studies have investigated the role of attention in shaping neuronal representations in cortical areas, few have focused on attentional modulation of neuronal signals related to visual motion. We recorded from 89 direction-selective neurons in middle temporal (MT) and medial superior temporal (MST) visual cortical areas of two macaque monkeys using identical sensory stimulation under various attentional conditions. Neural responses in both areas were greatly influenced by attention. When attention was directed to a stimulus inside the receptive field of a neuron, responses in MT and MST were enhanced an average of 20 and 40% compared with a condition in which attention was directed outside the receptive field. Even stronger average enhancements (70% in MT and 100% in MST) were observed when attention was switched from a stimulus moving in the nonpreferred direction inside the receptive field to another stimulus in the receptive field that was moving in the preferred direction. These findings show that attention modulates motion processing from stages early in the dorsal visual pathway by selectively enhancing the representation of attended stimuli and simultaneously reducing the influence of unattended stimuli.
Extracellular levels of serotonin [5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)] in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) can influence both cognitive and motor functions involving extensive connections with the frontal cortex. The 5-HT levels reflect vesicular release and plasmalemmal reuptake through the serotonin transporter (SERT). We used electron microscopic immunocytochemistry to determine the sites for SERT activation in the limbic shell and motor-associated core of the rat NAc. Of the SERT-immunoreactive profiles in each region, &gt;90% were serotonergic axons and axon terminals; the remainder were nonserotonergic dendrites and glia. Axonal SERT immunogold labeling was seen mainly at nonsynaptic sites on plasma membranes and often near 5-HT-containing large dense core vesicles (DCVs). SERT-labeled axonal profiles were larger and had a higher numerical density in the shell versus the core but showed no regional differences in their content of SERT immunogold particles. In contrast, immunoreactive dendrites had a lower numerical density in the shell than in the core. SERT labeling in dendrites was localized to segments of plasma membrane near synaptic contacts from unlabeled terminals and/or dendritic appositions. Our results suggest that in the NAc (1) reuptake into serotonergic axons is most efficient after exocytotic release from DCVs, and (2) increased 5-HT release without concomitant increase in SERT expression in individual axons may contribute to higher extracellular levels of serotonin in the shell versus the core. These findings also indicate that SERT may play a minor substrate-dependent role in serotonin uptake or channel activity in selective nonserotonergic neurons and glia in the NAc.
The synapse is the primary locus of cell-cell communication in the nervous system. It is now clear that the synapse incorporates diverse cell signaling modalities in addition to classical neurotransmission. Here we show that two components of the insulin pathway are localized at CNS synapses, where they are components of the postsynaptic density (PSD). An immunochemical screen revealed that polypeptides of 58 and 53 kDa (p58/53) were highly enriched in PSD fractions from rat cerebral cortex, hippocampus, and cerebellum. These polypeptides were purified and microsequenced, revealing that p58/53 is identical to the insulin receptor tyrosine kinase substrate p58/53 (IRSp53). Our analysis of IRSp58/53 mRNA suggests that within rat brain there is one coding region for IRSp58 and IRSp53; we find no evidence of alternative splicing. We demonstrate that IRSp58/53 is expressed in the synapse-rich molecular layer of the cerebellum and is highly concentrated at the synapses of cultured hippocampal neurons, where it co-localizes with the insulin receptor. Together, these data suggest that insulin signaling may play a role at CNS synapses.
Although traditional roles ascribed to myelinating glial cells are structural and supportive, the importance of compact myelin for proper functioning of the nervous system can be inferred from mutations in myelin proteins and neuropathologies associated with loss of myelin. Myelinating Schwann cells are known to affect local properties of peripheral axons (de Waegh et al., 1992), but little is known about effects of oligodendrocytes on CNS axons. The shiverer mutant mouse has a deletion in the myelin basic protein gene that eliminates compact myelin in the CNS. In shiverer mice, both local axonal features like phosphorylation of cytoskeletal proteins and neuronal perikaryon functions like cytoskeletal gene expression are altered. This leads to changes in the organization and composition of the axonal cytoskeleton in shiverer unmyelinated axons relative to age-matched wild-type myelinated fibers, although connectivity and patterns of neuronal activity are comparable. Remarkably, transgenic shiverer mice with thin myelin sheaths display an intermediate phenotype indicating that CNS neurons are sensitive to myelin sheath thickness. These results indicate that formation of a normal compact myelin sheath is required for normal maturation of the neuronal cytoskeleton in large CNS neurons.
Nonsynaptic signaling is becoming increasingly appreciated in studies of activity-dependent changes in the nervous system. We investigated the types of neuronal activity that elicit nonsynaptic communication between neurons and glial cells in hippocampal output fibers. High-frequency, but not low-frequency, action potential firing in myelinated CA1 axons of the hippocampus resulted in increased phosphorylation of the oligodendrocyte-specific protein myelin basic protein (MBP). This change was blocked by tetrodotoxin, indicating that axonally generated action potentials were necessary to regulate the phosphorylation state of MBP. Furthermore, scavengers of the reactive oxygen species superoxide and hydrogen peroxide and nitric oxide synthase inhibitors prevented activation of this neuron-glia signaling pathway. These results indicate that, during periods of increased neuronal activity in area CA1 of the hippocampus, reactive oxygen and nitrogen species are generated, which diffuse to neighboring oligodendrocytes and result in post-translational modifications of MBP, a key structural protein in myelin. Thus, in addition to their well-known capacity for activity-dependent neuron-neuron signaling, hippocampal pyramidal neurons possess a mechanism for activity-dependent neuron-glia signaling.

Neuronal survival is important to functional restitution following axotomy. Proximal lesions of the facial nerve, due to head trauma or tumor growth, for example, may cause long-standing or even permanent facial nerve palsy. Betamethasone has been used by several neurosurgical clinics for the treatment of postoperative facial nerve palsy; however, this practice is based only on clinical experience. The aim of the present study was to explore the putative effect on facial motor neuron survival of a novel lazaroid (pyrrolopyrimidine, PNU-101033-E) and furthermore to compare the effects with those of betamethasone, following intracranial transection of the facial nerve in adult rats. Both agents are known to inhibit lipid peroxidation by free radical scavenging. The lesion model used has recently been reported to induce massive neuronal cell death with a relative survival of 26.8 +/- 11.3% 1 month after lesion. Oral administration of lazaroids or daily injections of betamethasone followed surgery for 1 month, after which quantification of motor neuronal profiles was performed in the facial nucleus. Lazaroid-treated animals showed a significantly enhanced neuronal survival (68.0 +/- 9.8%), whereas no significant difference was found in betamethasone-treated animals (33.1 +/- 11.7%). The microglial and astrocytic responses in the facial nucleus were intense on the operated sides in betamethasone-treated as well as lazaroid-treated animals, and no differences in comparison with untreated animals were found. In conclusion, we found that the novel pyrrolopyrimidine PNU-101033-E, but not betamethasone, significantly enhanced nerve cell survival. This agent may therefore serve as a useful neuroprotective agent following intracranial trauma to the facial nerve and should be further evaluated for clinical use.

The objective of this study was to characterize the behavior induced by the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist MK-801 (dizocilpine maleate) in rats as a model of psychosis. The temporal profile, dose dependence, age, and sex differences of the behavior are described. A gas chromatographic method for the analysis of MK-801 in plasma and brain was developed. Female rats showed 4 to 10 times more MK-801-induced behavior and displayed around 25 times higher serum and brain concentrations of MK-801 than male rats. Twenty-one neuroactive compounds, including a number of excitatory amino acid-active substances, were tested for the effect on MK-801-induced behavior. Neuroleptics blocked MK-801-induced behavior in a dose-dependent manner that correlated to their antipsychotic potency in humans. Adenosine receptor agonists and an N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-associated glycine site antagonist showed putative antipsychotic effects. In conclusion, MK-801-induced behavior represents a rat excitatory amino acid hypofunction model of psychosis that appears to be of clinical relevance and may be of value in the search for new antipsychotic agents.
Peptidylglycine-alpha-hydroxylating monooxygenase (PHM; EC 1.14.17. 3) catalyzes the first and rate-limiting reaction in the two-step process that alpha-amidates neural and endocrine peptides. The substrate analog 4-phenyl-3-butenoic acid (PBA) was shown in vitro to selectively inhibit PHM without affecting the activity of peptidyl-alpha-hydroxyglycine alpha-amidating lyase, the enzyme that mediates the second reaction in alpha-amidation. Inhibition of PHM activity by PBA lowered the V(max) of the enzyme without altering its K(m). Administration of PBA in vivo profoundly inhibited serum PHM activity in a dose- and time-related fashion. Maximal reductions to less than 5% of control levels were observed 3 h after a single administration (500 mg/kg). Inhibition of serum PHM activity by PBA was short-lived, being fully reversed by 24 h postinjection. PHM activity in cardiac atrium, hypothalamus, and anterior and neurointermediate lobes of the pituitary were also decreased by PBA treatment but to a lesser extent than with serum. Inhibition of PHM activity by PBA was not cumulative over time when assessed 24 h after the last of 10 daily injections (500 mg/kg). The role of protein synthesis in maintaining PHM activity in blood was demonstrated by treatment with cycloheximide, which reduced serum PHM activity and retarded the recovery of PHM activity after PBA administration. It is concluded that the metabolism and/or clearance of PBA is rapid and that de novo protein synthesis has an important role in mediating the rapid restoration of PHM activity after PBA administration.
Seizures and status epilepticus are among the neurological complications of cocaine overdose in humans. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the protective effectiveness and therapeutic index (separation between anticonvulsive and side effect profiles) of 14 newly approved and potential antiepileptic drugs using a murine model of acute cocaine toxicity and the inverted-screen test for behavioral side effect testing. Cocaine (75 mg/kg i.p.) produces clonic seizures (approximately 90% of mice), and conventional antiepileptic drugs have been reported to be either ineffective or only effective at doses producing significant sedative/ataxic effects. Clobazam, flunarizine, lamotrigine, topiramate, and zonisamide were ineffective against seizures up to doses producing significant motor impairment. In contrast, felbamate, gabapentin, loreclezole, losigamone, progabide, remacemide, stiripentol, tiagabine, and vigabatrin produced dose-dependent protection against cocaine-induced convulsions with varied separations between their anticonvulsant and side effect profiles: the protective index values (toxic TD(50)/anticonvulsive ED(50)) ranged from 1.26 (felbamate) to 7.67 (loreclezole), and gabapentin had the highest (protective index &gt;152). Thus, several drugs were identified with greater protective efficacy and reduced motor impairment compared with classic antiepileptic drugs. Based on the proposed mechanism of action of these new anticonvulsants, it is noteworthy that 1) drugs that enhance gamma-aminobutyric acid-mediated neuronal inhibition in a manner distinct from barbiturates and benzodiazepines offer the best protective/behavioral side effect profiles, and 2) functional antagonists of Na(+) and Ca(2+) channels are generally ineffective. Overall, this study provides the first description of the effectiveness of new antiepileptic drugs against experimentally induced cocaine seizures and points to several drugs that deserve clinical scrutiny for this indication.
1.Time-lapse diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (DWI) was used to detect and characterize complex waves of cortical spreading depression (CSD) evoked with KCL placed upon the suprasylvian gyrus of anaesthetized cats. 2. The time-lapse representations successfully demonstrated primary CSD waves that propagated with elliptical wavefronts selectively over the ipsilateral cerebral hemispheres with a velocity of 3.8 +/- 0.70 mm min(-1) (mean +/- S.E.M. of 5 experiments). 3. In contrast, the succeeding secondary waves often remained within the originating gyrus, were slower (velocity 2.0 +/- 0.18 mm min(-1), more fragmented and varied in number. 4. Computed traces of the apparent diffusion coefficients (ADCs) showed negative deflections followed by monotonic decays (amplitudes: primary wave, -19.9 +/- 2.8%; subsequent waves, -13.6 +/- 1.9% duration at half-maximal decay, 150-200 s) when determined from regions of interest (ROIs) through which both primary and succeeding CSD waves propagated. 5. The passage of both the primary and the succeeding waves often correlated with transient DC potential deflections recorded from the suprasylvian gyrus. 6. The detailed waveforms of the ADC and the T2*-weighted (blood oxygenation level-dependent: BOLD) traces showed a clear reciprocal correlation. These imaging features that reflect disturbances in cellular water balance agree closely with BOLD measurements that followed the propagation velocities of the first and subsequent CSD events. They also provide a close physiological correlate for clinical observations of cortical blood flow disturbances associated with human migraine.
1. The activity-dependent regulation of presynaptic K+ currents at the CA3-CA1 synapse in the rat hippocampus was investigated during a train of evoked afferent action potentials. The waveforms of presynaptic compound action potentials (cAPs) and presynaptic Ca2+ transients ([Ca2+]pre,t) were measured with fluorescent voltage-sensitive and Ca2+-sensitive indicators in rat brain slices. 2. Under control conditions, presynaptic cAPs and the accompanying [Ca2+]pre,t displayed similar amplitudes for each stimulus, suggesting that there was no cumulative change of K+ and Ca2+ currents during the test train. However, when a subgroup of presynaptic K+ channels was blocked by a low concentration of 4-aminopyridine (4-AP, 40 microM), a significant facilitation of the [Ca2+]pre,t was observed. 3. This phenomenon was not due to a direct action of 4-AP on presynaptic Ca2+ channels, but to cumulative suppression of the K+ conductance as indicated by the corresponding change in waveforms of the cAP and presynaptic fibre volley. The observed facilitation was not an artifact by virtue of increased fibre recruitment, nor was it related to the accumulation of extracellular K+; rather, it was dependent on Ca2+ influx and stimulation frequency. The time course of recovery from facilitation was closely related to the decay of the intracellular Ca2+ concentration. 4. The facilitation was not blocked by a saturating concentration of 4-AP (8 mM) but was reduced during the application of the K+ channel blocker tetraethylammonium (TEA, 10 mM), implicating the involvement of TEA-sensitive K+ channels. Such activity-dependent suppression of presynaptic K+ conductance could lead to excessive transmitter release and might explain the hippocampal epileptiform activity that can be induced by application of 4-AP.
The hypothalamic suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) is primarily responsible for the regulation of circadian rhythmicity. Melatonin, the pineal-derived neurohormone, modulates the rhythmic output of the SCN. Property timed exposure to melatonin is able to induce changes in rhythmic function and thereby entrain circadian rhythms of activity. c-fos is an immediate early gene that is transiently expressed in neurons in response to receptor activation. The ventrolateral portion of the SCN (vSCN) is activated in response to phase-shifting stimuli, an event which is marked by an increase in the expression of c-fos.
Periodic limb movements during sleep (PLMS) and obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS) are two common sleep disorders. The similarity in periodicity of periodic limb movements (PLMs) and obstructive sleep apneas (OSAs) led us to hypothesize the existence of a common central generator responsible for the periodicity of both OSAs and PLMs. In order to test this hypothesis, we compared apnea periodicity before continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) treatment with PLMs periodicity during CPAP treatment in 26 OSA patients, consecutively recorded and treated in our sleep laboratory. The investigation on CPAP was performed twice, once during the initial evaluation and once during a follow-up evaluation after 3 months of home treatment with CPAP. Our results showed that, in this sample, 16 patients out of 26 had an association of OSAS and PLMS, defined as the occurrence of at least 5 PLMs per hour of sleep. The mean apnea interval - measured as the time between the beginning of two successive apneas - was 43.1 s (+/-15.2, SD) and the mean PLM interval - calculated in the same way - was 29.6 s (+/-15.2) during the baseline night, 28.5 s (+/-15.7) during the first CPAP night, and 29.8 s (+/-14.8) during the second CPAP night. Thus, the periodicity of the two phenomena (apneas and PLMs) was different, both before and after CPAP treatment (P&lt; 0.05). When considering the interval between the end of an event (apnea or PLM) and the beginning of the next one the mean apnea interval was 19.5 s (+/-11. 6), and the mean PLM interval was 28.1 s (+/-15.3) during the untreated night, 26.6 s (+/-16) during the first CPAP night and 27.9 s (+/-15) during the second CPAP night. The shortening of apnea intervals with this method of measuring intervals reflects the longer duration of apneas as compared to PLMs. Again the intervals between PLMs were not different between each other but the intervals between apneas were different from the intervals between PLMs (P&lt; 0. 05) These results show that the periodicity of PLMs is different from that of OSAs, suggesting that sleep apneas and PLMs are not generated by a common central generator.

Although the biochemical mechanisms underlying learning and memory have not yet been fully elucidated, mounting evidence suggests that activation of protein kinases and phosphorylation of their downstream effectors plays a major role. Recent findings in our laboratory have shown a requirement for the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascade in hippocampal synaptic plasticity. Therefore, we used an inhibitor of MAPK activation, SL327, to test the role of the MAPK cascade in hippocampus-dependent learning in mice. SL327, which crosses the blood-brain barrier, was administered intraperitoneally at several concentrations to animals prior to cue and contextual fear conditioning. Administration of SL327 completely blocked contextual fear conditioning and significantly attenuated cue learning when measured 24 hr after training. To determine whether MAPK activation is required for spatial learning, we administered SL327 to mice prior to training in the Morris water maze. Animals treated with SL327 exhibited significant attenuation of water maze learning; they took significantly longer to find a hidden platform compared with vehicle-treated controls and also failed to use a selective search strategy during subsequent probe trials in which the platform was removed. These impairments cannot be attributed to nonspecific effects of the drug during the training phase; no deficit was seen in the visible platform task, and injection of SL327 following training produced no effect on the performance of these mice in the hidden platform task. These findings indicate that the MAPK cascade is required for spatial and contextual learning in mice.

We investigated the correlations between numbers and volumes of multiple sclerosis (MS) lesions enhancing on standard dose (SD) and triple dose (TD) gadolinium (Gd)-enhanced brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans, to clarify whether the measurement of enhancing lesion volumes or the use of TD MRI give additional information which can not be obtained by counting enhancing lesions on SD scans. SD and TD Gd-enhanced brain MRI scans were obtained every month for three months from 40 MS patients. The numbers of total and new enhancing lesions were counted, and the total volumes of enhancing lesions were measured from each of the four scans obtained with the two techniques. Univariate correlations between enhancing lesion numbers and volumes were assessed. The numbers of total and new enhancing lesions seen either on SD or TD scans were significantly correlated (r = 0.91 and 0.93, respectively). The numbers and volumes of total enhancing lesions were significantly correlated on both SD (r = 0.90), and TD (r = 0.89) scans. Moderate correlations were found between the total number of enhancing lesions on SD scans and the average difference between TD and SD scans for total enhancing lesion number (r = 0.66), and between the number of new enhancing lesions on SD scans and the average difference between TD and SD scans for new enhancing lesion number (r = 0.50). Our findings indicate that, both on SD and TD MRI, the counts and the volumes of total and new enhancing lesions are highly correlated, and that lesion counting may suffice to monitor MS activity. On the contrary, this study confirms the usefulness of TD MRI for a more complete assessment of the acute changes occurring in MS patients.
We performed serial monthly magnetization transfer (MT) imaging to evaluate the prevalence and evolution of structural changes in individual enhancing lesions from patients with multiple sclerosis (MS). Every 4 weeks for 3 months, we obtained dual echo, magnetization transfer (MT) imaging and, 5 min after SD (0.1 mmol/kg) gadolinium-DTPA injection, T1-weighted scans from 10 patients with early relapsing-remitting MS. We measured the MT ratio (MTR) of enhancing lesions seen on the entry scans on co-registered quantitative MTR images at entry and during the follow up. Fourty-two enhancing lesions were identified on the entry scans. According to the &quot;maximal random fluctuation&quot; detected for the normal-appearing white matter MTR values, 16 (38%) lesions were classified as &quot;increasing MTR&quot; lesions, 21 (50%) as &quot;stable MTR&quot; lesions, and 5 (12%) as &quot;decreasing MTR&quot; lesions. The classification of the lesions after the first month of follow up strongly predicted the classification at the end of the follow up (chi squared = 20.35, p = 0.0004). These results indicate that the enhancing lesion population in MS is heterogeneous, and that reparative mechanisms occurring after blood-brain barrier opening are not efficient in only a minority of the enhancing lesions from patients with early relapsing-remitting MS.
We have examined the roles played by the Drosophila neural RNA-binding protein Musashi (MSI) in eye development. MSI expression was observed in the nuclei of all photoreceptor cells (R1-R8). Although a msi loss-of-function mutation resulted in only weak abnormalities in photoreceptor differentiation, we found that the msi eye phenotype was significantly enhanced in a seven in absentia (sina) background. sina is known to be involved in the degradation of the Tramtrack (TTK) protein, leading to the specification of the R7 fate. We demonstrated that MSI also functions to regulate TTK expression. The sina msi mutants showed significantly high ectopic expression of TTK69 and failure in the determination of the R1, R6, and R7 fates. Other photoreceptor cells also failed to differentiate with abnormalities occurring late in the differentiation process. These results suggest that MSI and SINA function redundantly to downregulate TTK in developing photoreceptor cells.
Combined EEG and PET techniques show three activation levels of the cortex: deep sleep, relaxed state and alert. We propose, correspondingly, that a cortical module can be in one of three equivalent states: inactivated, pre-activated, and activated. Neuroimaging techniques can show activated cortical regions in detail. However, the functional connections (FCs) among them are not shown in the image. They can be found by EEG-coherence functions. This can be seen as a 'three-level- cortical graph'. A cortical graph is a mathematical representation where the cortical units (modules or regions) are represented by points (nodes) and the FCs are represented by lines between these points. At the upper level, activated modules can establish FCs implying high electrical coherence (they are the winners of a competitive process between preactivated modules at the middle level). We propose that, during alert state, the activated nodes and the dynamic switching among them always form connected graphs. It means that, for any possible configuration, there always exists a path (direct or indirect) between any couple of nodes. We base our view on (1) analysis of simple tasks by PET; (2) the existence of coordinated behavior in normal subjects; (3) cortical topologies previously proposed; and (4) computer simulations of cortico-cortical connections. We also suggest that disengaged (nonconnected) cortical graphs, produce 'functional disconnection syndromes' which cause some symptoms in schizophrenia, and Alzheimer disease.
Respiratory indexes and the transmembrane electrical potential (delta psi) were evaluated in mitochondrial preparations from 6-month-old Goto-Kakizaki (GK) and Wistar rats in the presence of glutamate + malate and succinate. We found that in diabetic GK mitochondria, flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD)-linked respiratory indexes (respiratory control ratio [RCR] and adenosine diphosphate [ADP] to oxygen ratio [ADP/O]) are increased and uncoupled respiration is largely enhanced, indicating increased respiratory chain activity in GK rats. Delta psi development in GK mitochondrial preparations, energized using glutamate + malate or succinate as substrates, and the repolarization rate upon phosphorylation of the added ADP were significantly higher in GK mitochondrial preparations. These results indicate an enhanced activity of the phosphorylation system, confirmed by evaluating delta psi development when the mitochondria are energized by adenosine triphosphate (ATP). Moreover, recovery of the potential upon a phosphorylative cycle is increased in GK mitochondria, reflecting a more efficient coupling between the phosphorylative and oxidative system. Contrasting with results obtained for alloxan- or streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats, this study clearly demonstrates no impairment of mitochondrial bioenergetics in diabetic GK rats. On the contrary, at this age, we observed a higher efficiency of the phosphorylation system as compared with Wistar rats.
The trans-supraorbital approach represents the advantage of combining the keyhole principle and skull base surgery. In cadaveric work the author shows the anatomic fields visualized with this procedure, advantages and potential surgical applications. The experimental surgical procedure was performed on 8 adult skulls and on 3 cadavers with intact cerebral structures. First, a 2 cm supraorbital approach for endoscopic exploration was used. The basic anatomic landmarks and corresponding dimensions of the microsurgical field were recorded and then compared with those from the trans-supraorbital approach, after removing the orbital arch and other parts of the orbital ceiling. This technique offers a 0.5 cm average increase in surgical field from the craniotomy. The surgical distance that results is shorter (about 2 cm), as well as the length of the surgical instruments required. A better microscope illumination in the deep fields, and the possibility of access to the intraorbital region, the superior orbital fissure, the optic foramen, and the cavernous sinus through the clinoid space are also obtained, with minimal cerebral retraction and similar advantages as through the pterional trans-sylvian approach. The author concludes that by extending the craniotomy and decreasing the surgical distance, the microsurgical field is more convenient for microscope-assisted surgery without totally relying on the endoscope, and with minimal brain retraction. It also provides multiple options to approach vascular and tumor lesions found in these microsurgical corridors, combining principles of minimal invasion and skull-base surgery.
We have mapped the 5' and 3' boundaries of the region of the human telomerase RNA (hTR) that is required to produce activity with the human protein catalytic subunit (hTERT) by using in vitro assembly systems derived from rabbit reticulocyte lysates and human cell extracts. The region spanning nucleotides +33 to +325 of the 451-base hTR is the minimal sequence required to produce levels of telomerase activity that are comparable with that made with full-length hTR. Our results suggest that the sequence approximately 270 bases downstream of the template is required for efficient assembly of active telomerase in vitro; this sequence encompasses a substantially larger portion of the 3' end of hTR than previously thought necessary. In addition, we identified two fragments of hTR (nucleotides +33 to +147 and +164 to +325) that cannot produce telomerase activity when combined separately with hTERT but can function together to assemble active telomerase. These results suggest that the minimal sequence of hTR can be divided into two sections, both of which are required for de novo assembly of active telomerase in vitro.
The traditional genomic theory of steroid action does not fully explain the rapid effects of hormonal steroids, and it is thought that the nongenomic actions mediated by a putative membrane receptor may provide a plausible explanation. Although there is a rich body of evidence to substantiate the rapid, nongenomic effects of steroid hormones, the signal transduction pathways involved have proved to be complex and pleiotropic. Based on previous studies on the rapid, nongenomic actions of glucocorticoid (GC) and the G-protein-protein kinase pathways involved, including our own studies on PC12, SK-N-SH, BT-325 cells, and synaptosomes, in this review we will discuss the issue of multiple signal transduction pathways involved in the rapid, nongenomic effects of GC.
To characterize the distribution of transcription factor AP-1 and YY1 DNA-binding activities in the rat brain, the labeled target oligonucleotides were loaded on brain sections and after incubation and washing, the residual signal was registered by autoradiography. The binding was predominantly associated with neurons and was regionally specific with highest levels in the cerebellum, hippocampus, and piriform cortex. The identified binding factor was not, however, sequence-specific, but apparently recognized DNA ends and was activated by long double-stranded DNA. UV cross-linking identified the molecular mass of the factor to be about 80 kDa. The factor was not found in soluble brain extracts, suggesting its association with membranes or the nuclear matrix. Despite apparent similarities with Ku protein, which targets DNA-ends, the DNA end-binding activity was present in brains of Ku86- and Ku70-deficient mice. Since DNA end-binding factors are generally involved in DNA repair, the same function may be suggested for the novel factor identified in the present study.
Previous results from our laboratory have shown that phosphorylation of type VI adenylyl cyclase (ACVI) by protein kinase C (PKC) caused suppression of adenylyl cyclase activity. In the present study, we investigated the role of the N terminus cytosolic domain of ACVI in this PKC-mediated inhibition of ACVI. Removal of amino acids 1 to 86 of ACVI or mutation of Ser(10) (a potential PKC phosphorylation site) into alanine significantly relieved the PKC-mediated inhibition and markedly reduced the PKC-evoked protein phosphorylation. PKC also effectively phosphorylated a recombinant N terminus cytosolic domain (amino acids 1-160) protein of ACVI and a synthetic peptide representing Ser(10). In addition, the amino acids 1 to 86 truncated mutant exhibited kinetic properties similar to those of the wild type. Taken together, these data demonstrate that the highly variable N terminus cytoplasmic domain of ACVI is a regulatory domain with a critical role in PKC-mediated suppression, which is a hallmark of this adenylyl cyclase isozyme. In addition, Ser(10) was found to serve as an acceptor for the PKC-mediated phosphorylating transfer of ACVI.
mRNA encoding the recently cloned gamma-aminobuytyric acid(A) receptor (GABAR) pi subunit is expressed in the hippocampus and in several non-neuronal tissues including the uterus and ovaries. Whereas native GABARs are pentamers composed primarily of alphabetagamma, alphabetadelta, or alphabetaepsilon subunits, it has not been demonstrated clearly that the pi subunit incorporates into functional GABARs to form alphabetapi receptors and, if so, with what properties. We provide electrophysiological evidence that the pi subunit can coassemble with either alpha5beta3 or alpha5beta3gamma3 subunits to produce recombinant GABARs with distinct pharmacological and biophysical properties. Compared with alpha5beta3 receptors, GABARs produced by coexpression of alpha5beta3pi subunits had a lower GABA EC(50) value, were enhanced to a lesser extent by loreclezole, had different IC(50) values for pregnenolone sulfate and lanthanum, and were insensitive to benzodiazepines. Incorporation of both pi and gamma3 subunits into an alpha5beta3gamma3pi isoform was suggested by reduced enhancement by diazepam and a high zinc IC(50) value. Current-voltage relations for the alpha5beta3pi subunit combination outwardly rectified more than currents from alpha5beta3gamma3 but less than alpha5beta3 combination GABARs. Single-channel alpha5beta3 GABAR currents had a main conductance state of 15.2 picoSeimens (pS). Coexpression of the pi subunit with alpha5beta3 subtypes increased the conductance level to 23.8 pS, similar to the conductance level of alpha5beta3gamma3 GABARs (26.9 pS). We conclude that the pi subunit coassembles with alpha, beta, and gamma subunits to form functional alphabetapi or alphabetagammapi GABARs and, thus, could have a significant impact on the function of native GABARs expressed in the brain or non-neuronal tissue.
Available evidence indicates that clozapine is the most effective antipsychotic currently used for the pharmacotherapy of schizophrenia. Unfortunately, clozapine can cause serious side effects that limit the use of the drug. The therapeutic mechanism of action of clozapine is poorly understood, and accordingly, it has been difficult to design new drugs with the advantageous therapeutic properties of clozapine. Based on hypotheses that dopaminergic and serotonergic receptor-blocking properties of clozapine account for its clinical efficacy, several novel antipsychotic drugs have been introduced recently. There is currently insufficient data to reach definitive conclusions regarding the efficacy of the newer 'atypical' antipsychotics in comparison to clozapine. However, most published studies, and general clinical impressions, suggest that none of the newer drugs are as effective as clozapine in treating patients resistant to typical antipsychotic drug therapy. The present paper briefly reviews the clinical experience with the newer 'atypical' antipsychotic drugs and then discusses clinical and preclinical data potentially relevant to mechanisms of action of clozapine in relation to the NMDA receptor hypofunction hypothesis of schizophrenia.
The newly identified axotactin (AXO) protein in Drosophila, a member of the neurexin superfamily, appears to be a key element that mediates the effects of glial cells on neuronal membrane excitability and synaptic plasticity.
Dopamine D1-like and D2-like receptors on peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBL) were assayed in 50 de novo patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD), in 36 neurologic control subjects (multiple-system atrophy, n = 16; essential tremor, n = 10; other neurodegenerative diseases, n = 10), and in 26 healthy control subjects by radioligand binding assay techniques using [3H]SCH 23390 and [3H]7OH-DPAT as ligands. Patients with PD revealed a higher density (Bmax) of dopamine D1-like (p &lt;0.001) and D2-like (p &lt;0.00001) receptors on PBL than either neurologic or healthy control subjects, whereas no differences in Bmax were observed among patients affected by other neurologic diseases and healthy control subjects. The affinity (Kd) of both radioligands was similar in the groups investigated. The pharmacologic profile of [3H]SCH 23390 and [3H]7OH-DPAT binding was consistent with the labeling of dopamine D5 and D3 receptor subtypes, respectively. Twenty-five of the 50 patients with PD were retested after 3 months of therapy with levodopa or bromocriptine. Both treatments reduced the density of D1-like (p &lt;0.001) and D2-like (p &lt;0.001) receptors on PBL to values comparable to those of control subjects. The increased density of D1-like and D2-like receptors on PBL in de novo PD patients may represent an upregulation mechanism resulting from the diffuse impairment of the dopaminergic system in PD.
Here we identify a new gene, dark, which encodes a Drosophila homologue of mammalian Apaf-1 and Caenorhabditis elegans CED-4, cell-death proteins. Like Apaf-1, but in contrast to CED-4, Dark contains a carboxy-terminal WD-repeat domain necessary for interactions with the mitochondrial protein cytochrome c. Dark selectively associates with another protein involved in apoptosis, the fly apical caspase, Dredd. Dark-induced cell killing is suppressed by caspase-inhibitory peptides and by a dominant-negative mutant Dredd protein, and enhanced by removal of the WD domain. Loss-of-function mutations in dark attenuate programmed cell deaths during development, causing hyperplasia of the central nervous system, and other abnormalities including ectopic melanotic tumours and defective wings. Moreover, ectopic cell killing by the Drosophila cell-death activators, Reaper, Grim and Hid, is substantially suppressed in dark mutants. These findings establish dark as an important apoptosis effector in Drosophila and raise profound evolutionary considerations concerning the relationship between mitochondrial components and the apoptosis-promoting machinery.
The gracile axonal dystrophy (gad) mouse is an autosomal recessive mutant that shows sensory ataxia at an early stage, followed by motor ataxia at a later stage. Pathologically, the mutant is characterized by 'dying-back' type axonal degeneration and formation of spheroid bodies in nerve terminals. Recent pathological observations have associated brain ageing and neurodegenerative diseases with progressive accumulation of ubiquitinated protein conjugates. In gad mice, accumulation of amyloid beta-protein and ubiquitin-positive deposits occur retrogradely along the sensory and motor nervous systems. We previously reported that the gad mutation was transmitted by a gene on chromosome 5 (refs 10,11). Here we find that the gad mutation is caused by an in-frame deletion including exons 7 and 8 of Uchl1, encoding the ubiquitin carboxy-terminal hydrolase (UCH) isozyme (Uch-l1) selectively expressed in the nervous system and testis. The gad allele encodes a truncated Uch-l1 lacking a segment of 42 amino acids containing a catalytic residue. As Uch-l1 is thought to stimulate protein degradation by generating free monomeric ubiquitin, the gad mutation appears to affect protein turnover. Our data suggest that altered function of the ubiquitin system directly causes neurodegeneration. The gad mouse provides a useful model for investigating human neurodegenerative disorders.
Pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC)-derived peptides (the melanocortins adrenocorticotropin, alpha-, beta- and gamma-melanocyte stimulating hormone; and the endogenous opioid beta-endorphin) have a diverse array of biological activities, including roles in pigmentation, adrenocortical function and regulation of energy stores, and in the immune system and the central and peripheral nervous systems. We show here that mice lacking the POMC-derived peptides have obesity, defective adrenal development and altered pigmentation. This phenotype is similar to that of the recently identified human POMC-deficient patients. When treated with a stable alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone agonist, mutant mice lost more than 40% of their excess weight after 2 weeks. Our results identify the POMC-null mutant mouse as a model for studying the human POMC-null syndrome, and indicate the therapeutic use of peripheral melanocortin in the treatment of obesity.
We have identified a calcium-dependent pathway in neurons that regulates expression levels of the alpha1B subunit and N channel current. When neurons are depolarized and voltage-gated calcium channels activated, the half-life of cellular N channel alpha1B mRNA is prolonged. This stabilizing effect of depolarization is mediated through the 3' untranslated region of a long form of the alpha1B mRNA and may represent a form of modulation of N-channel levels that does not require changes in gene transcription. Increases in N channel expression would affect several key neuronal functions controlled by calcium, including transmitter release and neurite outgrowth.
Cerebellar granule cells in culture express receptors for GABA belonging to the GABA(A) and GABA(B) classes. In order to characterize the ability of the insecticide lindane to interact with these receptors cells were grown in either plain culture media or media containing 150 microM THIP as this is known to influence the properties of both GABA(A) and GABA(B) receptors. It was found that lindane regardless of the culture condition inhibited evoked (40 mM K+) release of neurotransmitter ([3H]D-aspartate as label for glutamate). In naive cells both GABA(A) and GABA(B) receptor active drugs prevented the inhibitory action of lindane but in THIP treated cultures none of the GABA(A) and GABA(B) receptor active drugs had any effect on the inhibitory action of lindane. This lack of effect was not due to inability of baclofen itself to inhibit transmitter release. It is concluded that lindane dependent on the state of the GABA(A) and GABA(B) receptors is able to indirectly interfere with both GABA(A) and GABA(B) receptors. In case of the latter receptors it was shown using [3H]baclofen to label the receptors that lindane could not displace the ligand confirming that lindane is likely to exert its action at a site different from the agonist binding site.
Over the past two decades the techniques associated with the manipulation of the mouse genome have provided a powerful approach toward the better understanding of gene function. Conventional transgenic and gene targeting approaches have been used extensively, and these techniques have been particularly rewarding for neuroscientists. Nevertheless, the traditional approaches toward genome manipulation have certain limitations that diminish their usefulness for studying more sophisticated biological processes. Therefore, variations to these techniques have recently been developed. The improvements are focused on two areas: one provides regulated control of transgene expression using an inducible expression system; and the other provides the opportunity to inactivate genes in specific cells and at predetermined developmental stages with a conditional gene targeting system. This review summarizes the advantages as well as some of the technical difficulties of these new approaches. The application of these advanced approaches in biomedical research, particularly neuroscience, are also discussed.
I am honored by the invitation to contribute to a volume in Neuroscience, dedicated to Professor Galoyan, whose accomplishments in the field of neuroscience and circulation have been unique. In his book, Dr. Galoyan has summarized the results of his discovery of cardioactive neurohormones. His discovery of biosynthesis of cytokines in the neurosecretory cells of the hypothalamus have opened a new page in immunology.
French scientists in the 18th century and 19th century helped shape our modern conception of the anatomy and physiology of the nervous system. One of the fruits of this labor was the discovery of the central area. In 1786, Vicq d'Azyr published a treatise which illustrated the central area for the first time. Forty years later Rolando, in Turin, also illustrated the central area and recognized Vicq d'Azyr's priority. However, Leuret named the central sulcus for Rolando. Gall recognized the physiological importance of the cortex and its fixed gyral pattern, but the wild claims of phrenology prevented most of the scientific community from accepting his real contribution. Thirty-three years after Gall's death, Broca described his famous patient Leborgne with aphmie (aphasia) which spurred an explosion of research in cortical function and cerebral localization. Eminent French scientists like Gratiolet and Leuret were instrumental in demonstrating the fixed pattern of the convolutions and systematizing the study of the cortex in man and lower animals.

We apply nine analytic methods employed currently in imaging neuroscience to simulated and actual BOLD fMRI signals and compare their performances under each signal type. Starting with baseline time series generated by a resting subject during a null hypothesis study, we compare method performance with embedded focal activity in these series of three different types whose magnitudes and time courses are simple, convolved with spatially varying hemodynamic responses, and highly spatially interactive. We then apply these same nine methods to BOLD fMRI time series from contralateral primary motor cortex and ipsilateral cerebellum collected during a sequential finger opposition study. Paired comparisons of results across methods include a voxel-specific concordance correlation coefficient for reproducibility and a resemblance measure that accommodates spatial autocorrelation of differences in activity surfaces. Receiver-operating characteristic curves show considerable model differences in ranges less than 10% significance level (false positives) and greater than 80% power (true positives). Concordance and resemblance measures reveal significant differences between activity surfaces in both data sets. These measures can assist researchers by identifying groups of models producing similar and dissimilar results, and thereby help to validate, consolidate, and simplify reports of statistical findings. A pluralistic strategy for fMRI data analysis can uncover invariant and highly interactive relationships between local activity foci and serve as a basis for further discovery of organizational principles of the brain. Results also suggest that a pluralistic empirical strategy coupled formally with substantive prior knowledge can help to uncover new brain-behavior relationships that may remain hidden if only a single method is employed.
Nonvoltage-gated cation currents, which are activated following stimulation of phospholipase C (PLC), appear to be major modes for Ca2+ and Na+ entry in mammalian cells. The TRPC channels may mediate some of these conductances since their expression in vitro leads to PLC-dependent cation influx. We found that the TRPC3 protein was highly enriched in neurons of the central nervous system (CNS). The temporal and spatial distribution of TRPC3 paralleled that of the neurotrophin receptor TrkB. Activation of TrkB by brain-derived nerve growth factor (BDNF) led to production of a PLC-dependent, nonselective cation conductance in pontine neurons. Evidence is provided that TRPC3 contributes to this current in vivo. Thus, activation of TrkB and PLC leads to a TRPC3-dependent cation influx in CNS neurons.
Gene targeting was used to delete exon 2 of mouse DOR-1, which encodes the delta opioid receptor. Essentially all 3H-[D-Pen2,D-Pen5]enkephalin (3H-DPDPE) and 3H-[D-Ala2,D-Glu4]deltorphin (3H-deltorphin-2) binding is absent from mutant mice, demonstrating that DOR-1 encodes both delta1 and delta2 receptor subtypes. Homozygous mutant mice display markedly reduced spinal delta analgesia, but peptide delta agonists retain supraspinal analgesic potency that is only partially antagonized by naltrindole. Retained DPDPE analgesia is also demonstrated upon formalin testing, while the nonpeptide delta agonist BW373U69 exhibits enhanced activity in DOR-1 mutant mice. Together, these findings suggest the existence of a second delta-like analgesic system. Finally, DOR-1 mutant mice do not develop analgesic tolerance to morphine, genetically demonstrating a central role for DOR-1 in this process.
Functional neuroimaging was used to investigate three factors that affect reading performance: first, whether a stimulus is a word or pronounceable non-word (lexicality), second, how often a word is encountered (frequency), and third, whether the pronunciation has a predictable spelling-to-sound correspondence (consistency). Comparisons between word naming (reading) and visual fixation scans revealed stimulus-related activation differences in seven regions. A left frontal region showed effects of consistency and lexicality, indicating a role in orthographic to phonological transformation. Motor cortex showed an effect of consistency bilaterally, suggesting that motoric processes beyond high-level representations of word phonology influence reading performance. Implications for the integration of these results into theoretical models of word reading are discussed.


The effects of selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitor (SSRI), paroxetine, and 5-HT1A, 5-HT1B and 5-HT1B/1D receptor antagonists on in vivo extracellular 5-HT levels in the guinea-pig frontal cortex and dorsal hippocampus were investigated using the technique of microdialysis. The aim of the study was to further investigate the autoreceptor roles of the 5-HT1A, 5-HT1B and 5-HT1D receptors in the median vs dorsal raphe nuclei. In the frontal cortex, 5-HT1A (WAY 100635, 1 mg/kg i.p.) or 5-HT1B (SB-224289, 4 mg/kg i.p.) receptor antagonists had no effect on extracellular levels of 5-HT, whilst the mixed 5-HT1B/1D receptor antagonist (GR 127935, 0.3 mg/kg i.p) produced a significant decrease in extracellular 5-HT levels. Paroxetine (10 microM) significantly increased extracellular 5-HT levels when perfused locally into the cortex. Administration of SB-224289, followed 120 min later by WAY 100635, had no effect on extracellular 5-HT levels. In contrast, sequential administration of either WAY 100635 and GR 127935, or SB-224289 and paroxetine significantly increased extracellular 5-HT levels. In the dorsal hippocampus, whilst 5-HT1A receptor antagonism elicited by administration of WAY 100635 had no effect, both 5-HT1B and mixed 5-HT1B/1D receptor blockade significantly increased extracellular 5-HT levels. Administration of SB-224289 followed 120 min later with WAY 100635, or WAY 100635 followed 30 min later with GR 127935, potentiated the effect of the three compounds alone, significantly increasing extracellular 5-HT levels. These data demonstrate that to simultaneously increase extracellular 5-HT in both frontal cortex and dorsal hippocampus of the guinea-pig brain concurrent 5-HTA1A, 5-HT1B and 5-HT1D receptor blockade is required. Whereas in the dorsal hippocampus, 5-HT1B receptor blockade is sufficient to elicit an increase in extracellular 5-HT levels.
Withdrawal from chronic ethanol intoxication is associated with a reduction of dopamine neurotransmission. However, the mechanisms of dopamine depletion, a putative neurochemical correlate of the dysphoric symptomatology, are not yet understood. To assess the role of L-type calcium channels in the inhibition of the dopaminergic system in the withdrawal state, the effects of the dihydropyridine calcium channel antagonist nimodipine on the extracellular levels of dopamine were studied in the nucleus accumbens shell of awake rats 10 h after withdrawal from chronic ethanol intoxication. In control, chronic sucrose-withdrawn rats, nimodipine did not change extracellular dopamine levels. However, in ethanol-withdrawn rats nimodipine (5 or 10 mg/kg s.c.) increased extracellular dopamine to 136 +/- 16 and 305 +/- 19% of pre-administration values, respectively, the latter dose elevating levels above those of controls. The elevations of extracellular DA by nimodipine (10 mg/kg) were associated with a significant reduction (-17%) of the overall behavioural score of the withdrawal symptomatology, as evaluated for 11 behavioural items. Significant reductions of the score for convulsions (-47%) and, to a lesser extent, for catatonia (-30%) and tremors (-15%) contributed to the overall effect. It is suggested that overactivity of L-type calcium channels is involved in the mechanisms of dopamine depletion as well as in certain behavioural/neurological signs associated with ethanol withdrawal. By restoring depleted dopamine levels, dihydropyridines might ameliorate the dysphoric symptoms of ethanol abstinence.
In order to better understand the mechanism(s) of action of carbamazepine (CBZ), we studied its effects on the increase in [Ca2+]i and [Na+]i stimulated by glutamate ionotropic receptor agonists, in cultured rat hippocampal neurons, as followed by indo- or SBFI fluorescence, respectively. CBZ inhibited the increase in [Ca2+]i stimulated either by glutamate, kainate, alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-isoxazole-4-propionate (AMPA), or N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA), in a concentration-dependent manner. In order to discriminate the effects of CBZ on the activation of glutamate receptors from possible effects on Ca2+ channels, we determined the inhibitory effects of Ca2+ channel blockers on [Ca2+]i changes in the absence or in the presence of CBZ. The presence of 1 microM nitrendipine, 0.5 microM omega-conotoxin GVIA (omega-CgTx GVIA), or of both blockers, inhibited the kainate-stimulated increase in [Ca2+]i by 51.6, 32.9 or 68.7%, respectively. In the presence of both 100 microM CBZ and nitrendipine, the inhibition was similar (54.1%) to that obtained with nitrendipine alone, but in the presence of both CBZ and omega-CgTx GVIA, the inhibition was greater (54%) than that caused by omega-CgTx GVIA alone. However, CBZ did not inhibit the increase in [Na+]i stimulated by the glutamate receptor agonists, but inhibited the increase in [Na+]i due to veratridine. Tetrodotoxin, or MK-801, did not inhibit the influx of Na+ stimulated by kainate, indicating that Na+ influx occurs mainly through the glutamate ionotropic non-NMDA receptors. Moreover, LY 303070, a specific AMPA receptor antagonist, inhibited the [Na+]i response to kainate or AMPA by about 70 or 80%, respectively, suggesting that AMPA receptors are mainly involved. Taken together, the results suggest that CBZ inhibits L-type Ca2+ channels and Na+ channels, but does not inhibit activation of glutamate ionotropic receptors.
We review the principal aspects of EEG and evoked potential (EP) neuromonitoring in the intensive care unit. The electrophysiological methods allow functional assessment of comatose patients and can be used (a) as a help to diagnose the origin of coma, (b) as a means to predict outcome, and (c) for monitoring purposes. The combination of the EEG and long-, middle-, and short-latency EPs allows widespread assessment of the cerebral cortex, the brain-stem, and the spinal cord. The EEG and the EP interpretation first requires taking into account non-neurological factors that may interfere with the recorded activities (sensory pathologies, toxic or metabolic problems, body temperature). The sensitivity and the specificity of any neurophysiological technique depend on the etiology of coma. Anoxic comas are associated with a predominantly cortical involvement, while the cortical and brain-stem functions are to be taken into account to interpret the EEG and the EPs in head trauma. The EEG and the EPs can be used to differentiate the comas due to structural lesions from those of metabolic origin, to confirm brain death and help to diagnose psychogenic unresponsiveness or a de-efferented state. While the prognostic value of the EEG is markedly hampered by the widespread use of sedative drugs, it has been possible to design efficient systems based on early- and middle-latency multimodality evoked potentials in anoxic and traumatic comas and, more generally, in all comas associated with an increase of the intracranial pressure. Continuous neuromonitoring techniques are currently under development. They have already been proven useful for the early detection and for the prevention of subclinical seizures, transtentorial herniation, vasospasm, and other causes of brain or spinal-cord ischemia.

Decades of research have demonstrated dramatic differences between the hemispheres of the brain. While the most obvious asymmetries are in the areas of language and motor control, the visuospatial abilities of the left hemisphere are also known to differ from those of the right hemisphere. This hemispheric difference has been demonstrated empirically but its basis is thus far unclear. In this paper, we investigate the hypothesis that the left hemisphere is capable of sophisticated visual processing, but represents spatial information relatively crudely compared to the right hemisphere. The implication of this hypothesis is that pattern recognition is a function of both hemispheres but the right hemisphere is further specialized for processing spatial information. In a series of seven experiments we examined perceptual matching of mirror-reversed stimuli by the divided cerebral hemispheres of a callosotomy patient. In each experiment the left hemisphere's performance was impaired relative to the right hemisphere. This finding was independent of stimulus type, response bias and stimulus duration. These results are consistent with the idea that visual processing in the left hemisphere is directed towards pattern recognition at the expense of spatial information.
This study analyzes whether the disruptive effects of the noncompetitive NMDA receptor antagonist MK-801 (0.01-0.1 mg/kg s.c.) on spatial learning can be dissociated from sensorimotor disturbances in the rat. Two different modifications of the Morris swim maze task with a hidden underwater platform were used: with or without local cue. Retention was tested either 24 h or 7 days after training as a probe trial (without platform). The present data indicate that MK-801 produces an impairment of spatial learning that cannot be dissociated from motor or sensory mechanisms. These findings support the view that NMDA receptors probably contribute to, but are not essential for, spatial learning in the water maze.
Decreased activity of the prefrontal cortex (PFC), as well as reduced serotonergic neurotransmission, is considered as a characteristic feature of major depression. The mechanism by which electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) and transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) achieve their antidepressant effects may involve changes in PFC activity. It is, however, still unclear whether these changes are accompanied by increased synaptic availability of serotonin (5-HT). In the present study, 5-HT efflux in the rat ventral hippocampus and amygdala was analyzed using in vivo microdialysis during low-current electrical stimulation of PFC and other cortical regions. Electrical stimulation of the medial PFC produced current-dependent increases in limbic 5-HT output in both urethane-anesthetized and behaving rats. No effects on 5-HT levels were seen after comparable stimulation of either the lateral parts of the PFC, the medial precentral area, the primary motor cortex or the parietal cortex. This pronounced regional specificity of the effect of medial PFC stimulation on limbic 5-HT output suggests that activation of this particular area might play a crucial role in such antidepressant treatments as ECT and TMS.
For centuries, starting with the advent of the microscope, cytotoxins have been known to non-selectively destroy nerves and other tissue cells. However, neurotoxins restricted in effect to one kind of neuron are an invention of the 20th century. One might reasonably trace the origins of this field to 1960 when the Nobel Laureates, R. Levi- Montalcini and S Cohen, showed that an antibody to nerve growth factor effectively prevented development of sympathetic nerves in the absence of overt changes in dorsal root ganglia and other neural and non-neural tissues. The year 1967 marks discovery of 6-hydroxydopamine, the first of dozens of chemically-selective neurotoxins. As stated by the physiologist W.B. Cannon, neural function can be deduced by denoting absence-deficits. A wealth of knowledge in neuroscience has been realized through use of neurotoxins. In the 21st century we foresee neurotoxins for virtually all neurochemically-identifiable or receptor-specific neurons, acting at/via functional proteins or characteristic DNA sites. These tools will provide us with a better means to probe the mind and thereby lead to a fuller understanding of the intricate roles of identifiable neuronal systems in integrative neuroscience.
Neuroimaging is a powerful and innovative tool for studying the pathology of psychiatric and neurological diseases and, more recently, for studying the drugs used in their treatment. Technological advances in imaging have made it possible to noninvasively extract information from the human brain regarding a drug's mechanism and site of action. Until now, our understanding of human brain pharmacology has depended primarily on indirect assessments or models derived from animal studies. However, the advent of multiple techniques for human brain imaging allows researchers to focus directly on human pharmacology and brain function. In this review article, our PET studies on the histaminergic neuron system were presented as an example. We have developed and used the PET techniques for 10 years in order to examine the H1 receptors in the living human brain. This review outlines available PET techniques and examines how these various methods have already been applied to the drug development process and neuropharmacology in the living human brain.
Neurologic degenerative disorders pose challenges to patients, their families, and health care professionals who care for them. In recent years there have been many advances in the diagnosis and management of neurologic degenerative diseases. Multiple sclerosis, myasthenia gravis, Parkinson's disease, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis are discussed.
The role of neuroscience nurses in relation to ethical issues has become increasingly complex. Knowledge of ethical principles and theories assists the nurse in the development of a theoretical basis for resolution of ethical issues or concerns. Additionally, the nurse must possess information regarding practice codes or standards as well as legislative requirements. The nurse must act as an advocate for the patient and society through active participation in institutional ethics committees and legislative forums.
This article provides an overview of functional assessment, describes how functional assessment is performed using standardized tools, and discusses the nurse's role in functional assessment and the interdisciplinary rehabilitation practice setting. In addition, a description of the various levels of care used in the provision of rehabilitative services, and examples of how functional assessment may be related to moving a patient to the next level of care and along the continuum of care, are provided.
Neuroassessment is the basis for clinical reasoning and nursing interventions in the neuroscience patient. This article discusses various types of assessment tools, and provides practical tips to help the nurse conduct a neurological exam and interpret the findings.
Understanding the neuroanatomical structures and their clinical correlations are essential to caring for the neuroscience patient. By actualizing normal structures and functions, the nurse will be able to recognize abnormal clinical manifestations. With such recognition, the nurse will be able to predict nursing care priorities.
Neuroscience nursing practice in the 21st century is considered from two perspectives: 1) scope of care and roles within a collaborative interdisciplinary model of care; and 2) patient-focused care within the challenging health care system. The implications of illness trends for neuroscience nursing practice are discussed, as are the developing changes in the health care delivery system driven by economics. The article focuses on the futuristic role of disease management in shaping practice and the models for practice which will prevail in this new health care environment.
Peripheral nerve injury induces sprouting of sympathetic nerve fibers in dorsal root ganglia after spinal nerve injury. In the present study, we sought to determine the extent of intraganglionic noradrenergic sprouting in the trigeminal system. The inferior alveolar nerve, a major branch of the mandibular division, or the infraorbital nerve of the maxillary division was either ligated or chronically constricted in Sprague-Dawley rats and recovery permitted for either 2-3 or 6-9 weeks. In some animals both nerves were injured. Using immunohistochemistry with tyrosine hydroxylase antibodies, we found no signs of sympathetic nerve fiber sprouting in the trigeminal ganglion after injury. In contrast, sciatic nerve injury in rat littermates induced a widespread autonomic nerve outgrowth in affected DRGs. Thus, sensory ganglion sympathetic nerve sprouting does not seem to be a general outcome of PNS injury, but is restricted to certain specific locations. Sympathetic nerve fiber networks that surround primary sensory neurons have been suggested to form a structural basis for interactions between the sympathetic and sensory nervous systems after PNS injury. Such interactions, sometimes resulting in paraesthesia or dysaesthesia in patients, appear to be less common in territories innervated by the trigeminal nerve than in spinal nerve regions. The lack of injury-induced intraganglionic sympathetic sprouting in the trigeminal ganglion may help to explain this observation.
Thirty-two patients with refractory central and neuropathic pain of peripheral origin were treated by chronic stimulation of the motor cortex between May 1993 and January 1997. The mean follow-up was 27.3 months. The first 24 patients were operated according to the technique described by Tsubokawa. The last 13 cases (eight new patients and five reinterventions) were operated by a technique including localisation by superficial CT reconstruction of the central region and neuronavigator guidance. The position of the central sulcus was confirmed by the use of intraoperative somatosensory evoked potentials. The somatotopic organisation of the motor cortex was established peroperatively by studying the motor responses at stimulation of the motor cortex through the dura. Ten of the 13 patients with central pain (77%) and ten of the 12 patients with neuropathic facial pain had experienced substantial pain relief (75%). One of the three patients with post-paraplegia pain was clearly improved. A satisfactory result was obtained in one patient with pain related to plexus avulsion and in one patient with pain related to intercostal herpes zooster. None of the patients developed epileptic seizures. The position of the stimulating poles effective on pain corresponded to the somatotopic representation of the motor cortex. The neuronavigator localisation and guidance technique proved to be most useful identifying the appropriate portion of the motor gyrus. It also allowed the establishment of reliable correlations between electrophysiological-clinical and anatomical data which may be used to improve the clinical results and possibly to extend the indications of this technique.
The objective of this study was to investigate the prevalence of dementia and regional brain syndromes in a community-based sample including 65 patients with long-standing Parkinson's disease (PD). A range of rating scales, among them a modification of the Stepwise Comparative Status Analysis, was used. Twenty-one patients (32%) met the DSM-III criteria for dementia. Thirty-one of the patients (48%) exhibited regional brain syndromes: nine had anterior; eight posterior; and three global regional brain syndromes; and one had another complex regional brain syndrome. The posterior brain syndrome was significantly more common in the group with dementia (P&lt;0.001).
Animal models of clinical phenomena, such as stimulant-induced psychosis have focused primarily on persisting alterations that develop in brain after chronic stimulant administration. The present study utilized autoradiographic measures to examine changes in the density of benzodiazepine ([3H] flunitrazepam), muscarinic ([3H] quinuclidinyl benzilate), and non-NMDA glutamatergic (3H alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid: AMPA) receptor binding in rats 21 days following two exposures to cocaine administered continuously for 5 days via subcutaneous pellets. A marked, selective increase in [3H] flunitrazepam binding in both the lateral and medial habenula nucleus was observed. Reduced [3H] quinuclidinyl benzilate binding was observed in various brain areas, including large decreases in the anterior cingulate cortex and ventral thalamus. A reduction in [3H]AMPA binding was observed in the ventral striatum and was suggested in the nucleus accumbens. [3H] Flunitrazepam binding was also examined 12 hr following a single 5 day cocaine exposure to determine if the long-term habenular changes were evident at acute withdrawal. No alterations in [3H] flunitrazepam binding were observed in the habenula or any other structure analyzed at this time point. The relation of these results to persisting alterations in mesocorticolimbic pathways and previous findings of cocaine-induced degeneration in lateral habenula circuitry is discussed.




Current categorization models disagree about whether people make a priori assumptions about the structure of unfamiliar categories. Data from two experiments provided strong evidence that people do not make such assumptions. These results rule out prototype models and many decision bound models of categorization. We review previously published neuropsychological results that favor the assumption that category learning relies on a procedural-memory-based system, rather than on an instance-based system (as is assumed by exemplar models). On the basis of these results, a new category-learning model is proposed that makes no a priori assumptions about category structure and that relies on procedural learning and memory.



Addictive drugs like cocaine, ethanol, and morphine activate signal transduction pathways that regulate brain gene expression. Such regulation is modulated by the presence of certain transcription factor proteins present in a given neuron. This article summarizes the effects of several addictive drugs on transcriptional processes contributing to the development of a drug-dependent state. The characterization of drug-induced changes in gene expression shows promise for improving our understanding of drug-addiction phenomena and cellular modes of cocaine, ethanol, and morphine action.


The efficacy of physiotherapy or chiropractic treatment for patients with neck pain was analysed by reviewing 27 randomised clinical trials published 196-1995. Three different methods were employed: systematic analyses of; methodological quality; comparison of effect size; analysis of inclusion criteria, intervention and outcome according to The Disablement Process model. The quality of most of the studies was low; only one-third scored 50 or more of a possible 100 points. Positive outcomes were noted for 18 of the investigations, and the methodological quality was high in studies using electromagnetic therapy, manipulation, or active physiotherapy. High methodological quality was also noted in studies with traction and acupuncture, however, the interventions had either no effect or a negative effect on outcome. Pooling data and calculation of effect size showed that treatments used in the studies were effective for pain, range of motion, and activities of daily living. Inclusion criteria, intervention, and outcome were based on impairment in most of the analysed investigations. Broader outcome assessments probably would have revealed relationships between treatment effect and impairment, functional limitation and disability.





During the last decade neurotransplantation has developed into a technique with the possible potential to repair damaged or degenerating human brain. Effective neurotransplantation has so far been based on the use of fetal brain tissue derived from aborted embryos or fetuses. The ethical issues related to this new therapeutic approach therefore not only concern the possible adverse side effects for a neural graft-receiving patient, but also the relationship between the requirements for fetal tissue and the decision-making process for induced abortion. Although for decades human embryos and fetuses have been the subject of biomedical studies, and, in principle, their use has therefore not been seen as ethically objectionable, the above points made it necessary to reconsider the moral issues. The present paper points out several of these issues, both from the donor and acceptor (patient) point of view. The conclusion is that under a series of restrictions intended to prevent the use of grafts from encouraging induced abortions and to maintain high standards of respect for life and human dignity, neurotransplantation using embryonic or fetal brain tissue parts cannot be rejected on moral grounds.

Many psychoactive drugs influence the transport of neurotransmitters across biological membranes, suggesting that the physiological regulation of neurotransmitter transport might contribute to normal and perhaps abnormal behaviour. Over the past few years, molecular characterization of the neurotransmitter transporters has enabled investigation of their subcellular location and regulation. The analysis of location suggests that membrane trafficking has an important role in the normal function of these proteins. One of the major regulatory mechanisms also involves changes in localization that might contribute to synaptic plasticity. This article discusses recent work on the membrane trafficking of neurotransmitter transporters and its role in regulating their activity.
The last ten years have seen an increasing interest, within cognitive science, in issues concerning the physical body, the local environment, and the complex interplay between neural systems and the wider world in which they function. Yet many unanswered questions remain, and the shape of a genuinely physically embodied, environmentally embedded science of the mind is still unclear. In this article I will raise a number of critical questions concerning the nature and scope of this approach, drawing a distinction between two kinds of appeal to embodiment: (1) 'Simple' cases, in which bodily and environmental properties merely constrain accounts that retain the focus on inner organization and processing; and (2) More radical appeals, in which attention to bodily and environmental features is meant to transform both the subject matter and the theoretical framework of cognitive science.
Local electroretinograms (ERGs) were recorded in the parietal eye of Xantusia vigilis. The responses to monochromatic light under dark- and light-adapted conditions were studied. We found that two antagonistic chromatic mechanisms dominate the overall response. With the electrode tip in the lumen of the eye, light stimulation under dark-adapted conditions evoked responses of negative polarity with maximum sensitivity to green light. Intense green background illumination saturated the green-sensitive mechanism, and superposition of a blue stimulus then elicited responses of opposite polarity, driving the potentials back toward the dark resting level. The spectral sensitivities of the two chromatic mechanisms were determined using chromatic adaptation. The lower threshold, green-sensitive mechanism has a maximum sensitivity at 495 nm while the antagonistic mechanism, with its maximal spectral sensitivity at 430 nm, is at least 2 log units less sensitive. The polarity of the ERG recording inverts as the electrode traverses the photoreceptor layer, suggesting that the photoreceptors are the major source of the ERG. This result was confirmed with intracellular recordings from photoreceptors, glial, and lens cells. The glial and lens cells of the parietal eye respond to local changes in [K+]o. Intracellular recordings of the responses of these cells to light stimuli follow time courses similar to changes in extracellular potassium concentrations measured with K+ -specific electrodes. These results suggest that the glial and lens cell membranes are highly permeable to potassium and, therefore, the electrical responses of these cells are evoked by changes in [K+]o elicited by light stimulation of the photoreceptors. Nevertheless, the major component of the parietal eye ERG is the photoreceptor signal. A circuit model of the ERG sources is presented.
Among the many contributions of I.P. Pavlov to the study of the higher nervous system was his exploration of the physical basis of attention. Pavlov's analysis of the orienting reflex (OR), together with the contributions of Y.N. Sokolov, demonstrated that attention could be studies by the objective methods of neurophysiology. Cognitive neuroscience has continued these effort by using neuroimaging to explore the anatomy and physiology of attention in the working human brain. It is now possible to show that the appearance of a novel visual event invokes multiple attentional networks that work in concert to orient to and process a novel object within a very brief exposure. In this paper, we describe cognitive studies of orienting to novelty in adults, examine the networks of neural areas involved in processing novel objects, and review the development in early life of these attentional networks. Orienting to novelty provides an excellent vehicle for examining how biology and experience shape the mechanisms of self-regulation and cognitive control.
Yawning is a phylogenetically old, stereotyped event that occurs alone or associated with stretching and/or penile erection in humans, in animals from reptiles to birds and mammals, under different conditions. Several neurotransmitters and neuropeptides are involved in its control at the central level. One of these at the level of the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus (PVHN) is nitric oxide (NO). First, NO synthase inhibitors injected into this hypothalamic nucleus prevent yawning induced by dopamine agonists, oxytocin or N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA), which induce yawning by activating PVHN oxytocinergic neurons projecting to extra-hypothalamic brain areas. The inhibitory effect of NO synthase inhibitors was not observed when these compounds were given concomitantly with L-arginine, the precursor of NO. Second, dopamine agonists, NMDA and oxytocin given at doses that induce yawning, increase NO production in the PVHN, as determined by in vivo microdialysis. Conversely, the opiate morphine, which prevents yawning induced by dopamine agonists, oxytocin and NMDA, also prevents the increase in the paraventricular NO production induced by these compounds. Third, NO donors, such as nitroglycerin, sodium nitroprusside and hydroxylamine, induce yawning when injected into the PVHN apparently by activating oxytocinergic transmission. Since guanylate cyclase inhibitors and NO scavengers (hemoglobin) injected into the PVHN do not prevent drug-induced yawning, nor 8-Br-cGMP injected into the PVHN induces this behavioral response, it is likely that NO acts as an intracellular rather than an intercellular modulator inside the PVHN oxytocinergic neurons in which NO is formed to facilitate the expression of this phylogenetically old event by guanylate cyclase-independent mechanisms.

I use a model to show how simple, bottom-up, neural mechanisms in primary visual cortex can qualitatively explain the preattentive component of complex psychophysical phenomena of visual search for a target among distracters. Depending on the image features, the speed of search ranges from fast, when a target pops-out or is instantaneously detectable, to very slow, and it can be asymmetric with respect to switches between the target and distracter objects. It has been unclear which neural mechanisms or even cortical areas control the ease of search, and no physiological correlate has been found for search asymmetry. My model suggests that contextual influences in V1 play a significant role.
We have constructed transgenic Drosophila melanogaster lines that express green fluorescent protein (GFP) exclusively in the nervous system. Expression is controlled with transcriptional regulatory elements present in the 5' flanking DNA of the Drosophila Na(+), K(+)-ATPase beta-subunit gene Nervana2 (Nrv2). This regulatory DNA is fused to the yeast transcriptional activator GAL4, which binds specifically to a sequence motif termed the UAS (upstream activating sequence). Drosophila lines carrying Nrv2-GAL4 transgenes have been genetically recombined with UAS-GFP (S65T) transgenes (Nrv2-GAL4+UAS-GFP) inserted on the same chromosomes. We observe strong nervous system-specific fluorescence in embryos, larvae, pupae, and adults. The GFP fluorescence is sufficiently bright to allow dynamic imaging of the nervous system at all of these developmental stages directly through the cuticle of live Drosophila. These lines provide an unprecedented view of the nervous system in living animals and will be valuable tools for investigating a number of developmental, physiological, and genetic neurobiological problems.
The early events in neoplastic transformation can be understood only by comparison of the neoplastic cell with its nontransformed counterpart. The most common central nervous system gliomas traditionally are thought to arise from mature astrocytes and oligodendrocytes. We examined the possibility that gliomas arise from a population of glia that has properties of oligodendrocyte progenitors. These glial cells express the NG2 chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan and the alpha receptor of platelet-derived growth factor in vivo. We identified NG2 and the alpha receptor of platelet-derived growth factor expression in tissue from seven of seven oligodendrogliomas, three of three pilocytic astrocytomas, and one of five glioblastoma multiforme. These data provide evidence that glial tumors arise from glial progenitor cells. Molecules expressed by these progenitor cells should be considered as targets for novel therapeutics.
The development of new treatments to slow or arrest the progression of diabetic polyneuropathy (DPN) has increased the importance of the early and accurate identification of this complication. It is likely that effective intervention will be possible only during the subclinical or early phase of dysfunction. Accurate diagnosis of DPN is a formidable task because of the diversity of presentations, involvement of different nerve fiber types, and the common dissociation of symptoms from objective measures of neural function. Several diagnostic tools are available or in development, each with strengths and limitations. Electrophysiology is a sensitive, objective, and targeted measure of DPN, but it reflects, almost exclusively, the activity of large-caliber, myelinated axons. Newly refined skin-punch biopsy procedures use morphometric and immunohistochemical methods to examine thinly myelinated and unmyelinated nerve fibers. The integrity, density, and distribution of these fibers may provide a sensitive index of small-fiber distal axonopathy. Improvements in quantitative sensory testing include better control of stimulation characteristics and the use of computer-assisted testing algorithms (e.g., CASE IV), as well as the ability to examine a distal to proximal gradient of sensation (Physitemp NTE-2a). Composite scales, which combine the assessment of signs, symptoms, electrophysiology, and specific quantitative sensory measures, have also been proposed and, in some cases, validated. The existing diagnostic tools and newly emerging methods provide a battery of tests that can be used to assess multiple aspects of neural function and increase sensitivity to detect the onset and progression of DPN.
A preembedding immunocytochemical method for light microscopy was used to study the postnatal development of expression of the group III metabotropic glutamate receptor mGluR4a in the medial nucleus of the trapezoid body (MNTB) of the rat. Immunoreactivity for mGluR4a was localized in axonal endings wrapping the principal globular neurons in MNTB, known as calyces of Held. The percentage of calyces of Held immunoreactive for mGluR4a increased progressively from postnatal day 3 (PND3), showing the highest density of labeled calyces by PND9. From this postnatal age on, a gradual reduction in the number of mGluR4a-immunopositive calyces of Held was observed, reaching the lowest level of labeled profiles in adult tissue. The developmental expression of mGluR4a in calyces of Held correlates well with previous studies in young animals showing a modulation of synaptic neurotransmission by group III mGluRs in these giant excitatory synapses made on MNTB principal neurons. All these observations together suggest that the expression of mGluR4a mainly between PND7 and PND12 might be relevant to the maturation and modulation of synaptic transmission at the calyces of Held.
In addition to neurotransmission, the native opioid peptide, [Met5]enkephalin, is a tonically active inhibitory growth molecule that is termed opioid growth factor (OGF). OGF interacts with the zeta (zeta) opioid receptor to influence cell proliferation and tissue organization. We now identify OGF and the zeta receptor in embryonic derivatives including ectoderm, mesoderm, and endoderm of the rat on gestation day 20. Messenger RNA for preproenkephalin (PPE), the precursor of OGF, was detected in the developing cells, suggesting an autocrine production of this peptide. Acute exposure of the pregnant female to OGF resulted in a decrease in DNA synthesis in cells of organs representing all three germ layers, and did so in a receptor-mediated fashion. The influence of OGF was direct, as evidenced in organ culture studies. Blockade of endogenous opioid interaction using naltrexone (NTX) produced an increase in DNA synthesis, indicating the constitutive and functional nature of opioid activity on growth during prenatal life. Human fetal cells contained OGF and the zeta receptor. These data support the hypothesis that endogenous opioid modulation of organ development is a fundamental principle of mammalian embryogenesis, and that OGF has a profound influence on ontogeny. Irregularities in the role of opioids as growth regulators in relationship to the more than 500,000 newborns suffering from birth defects each year in the US needs to be examined.
To determine the fate of ocular surface epithelial cells in response to corneal injury, epithelial cells undergoing DNA synthesis were labeled at discrete time points following abrasion. A 3-mm diameter epithelial defect was made in the center of the rat cornea. One hour prior to sacrifice, animals received an intraperitoneal injection of [3H]-thymidine. DNA synthesis in the regenerating epithelium was of low abundance (&lt; 2%). The undamaged corneal epithelium had a labeling index (LI) that was markedly elevated from unwounded specimens in the first 48 h after abrasion. The LIs of suprabasal cells were increased at 24 h and 36 h; these cells were believed to be displaced basal epithelial cells. Basal and suprabasal cells of the limbus and conjunctiva exhibited increases in LIs from unwounded subjects at singular timepoints (within 24 h of injury). These results, using rigorous statistical analysis, show that DNA synthesis is not impeded--but rather often accelerated--following denuding of the corneal epithelium. Re-epithelialization is not dependent on DNA synthesis in the regenerating region, but appears to be related to an increase in DNA synthesis (along with centripetal migration) in the adjacent, undamaged epithelium. The increase in DNA synthesis occurring in the limbus and conjunctiva does not directly supply cells to the regenerating region within the 72 h required for epithelial restitution, but is conjectured to serve in replenishing ocular surface epithelial cells used in the repair process.
We have assessed the utility of the Cytosensor microphysiometer for studying the pharmacology of recombinant CRF receptors. Chinese hamster ovary cells stably expressing the human CRF1 or CRF2 receptor were perfused in the Cytosensor with bicarbonate-free Hams F12 (pH 7.4) containing 0.2% bovine serum albumin. The rank order of potencies of agonist peptides were CRF = sauvagine = urocortin = urotensin at CRF1 (pEC50 values 11.16 +/- 0.17, 11.37 +/- 0.14, 11.43 +/- 0.09 and 11.46 +/- 0.13; n = 4), and urocortin = sauvagine &gt; urotensin &gt; CRF at CRF2 (pEC50 values 10.88 +/- 0.12, 10.44 +/- 0.05, 9.36 +/- 0.12 and 8.53 +/- 0.07; n = 7-9). alpha-Helical CRF (9-41) was a competitive antagonist at the CRF2 receptor (pK(B) = 6.99 +/- 0.08, n = 4), but was a partial agonist at the CRF1 receptor (pEC50 = 6.85 +/- 0.08, Emax = 33%, n = 3). CP 154,526 was a competitive antagonist at the CRF1 receptor (pK(B) = 8.17 +/- 0.05, n = 6), but was inactive at the CRF2 receptor. These data are consistent with established CRF receptor pharmacology and show that the Cytosensor is a viable method for assessing the functional activity of CRF-receptor agonists and antagonists.
Many peptide hormones and neuropeptides are processed by members of the subtilisin-like family of prohormone convertases (PCs), which are either soluble or integral membrane proteins. PC1 and PC2 are soluble PCs that are primarily localized to large dense core vesicles in neurons and endocrine cells. We examined whether PC1 and PC2 were active when expressed as membrane-tethered proteins, and how tethering to membranes alters the biosynthesis, enzymatic activity, and intracellular routing of these PCs. PC1 and PC2 chimeras were constructed using the transmembrane domain and cytoplasmic domain of the amidating enzyme, peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM). The membrane-tethered PCs were rerouted from large dense core vesicles to the Golgi region. In addition, the chimeras were transiently expressed at the cell surface and rapidly internalized to the Golgi region in a fashion similar to PAM. Membrane-tethered PC1 and PC2 exhibited changes in pro-domain maturation rates, N-glycosylation, and in the pH and calcium optima required for maximal enzymatic activity against a fluorogenic substrate. In addition, the PC chimeras efficiently cleaved endogenous pro-opiomelanocortin to the correct bioactive peptides. The PAM transmembrane domain/cytoplasmic domain also prevented stimulated secretion of pro-opiomelanocortin products in AtT-20 cells.
Chemical destruction of the olfactory mucosa leads to a neuronal regeneration. A new organotypic culture model is perfected to improve the regenerating processes study. Explants of neuroepithelium attached to olfactory bulbs were removed from adult mice and cultured, 12 h after ZnSO4 intranasal application. After 3 days in culture, explants showed a necrosis in the olfactory epithelium and a thinning of the olfactory bulb nervous layer. From the fifth day of culture, and mostly the tenth, new cells showed positive immunoreactivity with the olfactory marker protein (OMP), meaning they were regenerating olfactory neurons. Simultaneously, OMP immunoreactivity increased in the nervous and glomerular layers of the olfactory bulb, indicating epithelio-bulbar reconnection. This organotypic culture model could allow further investigations on the regenerating process kinetic.
Direct projections from the medial preoptic area (MPO) to the pontine micturition center neurons directly projecting to the lumbosacral spinal cord were revealed electron microscopically in the rat by a double labeling method. Biotinylated dextran amine (BDA) was injected into the MPO and horseradish peroxidase (HRP) was injected into the lumbosacral cord segments. At light microscopic level, BDA-labeled presumptive axon terminals completely overlapped with HRP-labeled neurons in Barrington's nucleus. Electron microscopic observation showed that some BDA-labeled axon terminals made synaptic contacts with dendrites of HRP-labeled neurons in Barrington's nucleus. The present results indicated that the MPO may be involved in the modulation of the pontine micturition reflex in the rat.
Long-term depression (LTD) is a well-known form of synaptic plasticity of principal neurons in the mammalian brain. Whether such changes occur in interneurons is still controversial. CA3 hippocampal interneurons expressing Ca2+-permeable AMPA receptors exhibited LTD after tetanic stimulation of CA3 excitatory inputs. LTD was independent of NMDA receptors and required both Ca2+ influx through postsynaptic AMPA receptors and activation of presynaptic mGluR7-like receptors. These results point to the capability of interneurons to undergo plastic changes of synaptic strength through joint activation of pre- and postsynaptic glutamate receptors.
The mucociliary system is responsible for clearing inhaled particles and pathogens from the airways. This important task is performed by the beating of cilia and the consequent movement of mucus from the lungs to the upper airways. Because ciliary motility is enhanced by elevated intracellular calcium concentrations, inhibition of calcium influx could lead to disease by jeopardizing mucociliary clearance. Several hormones and neurotransmitters stimulate ciliary motility, one of the most potent of which is extracellular ATP (ATP0), which acts by releasing calcium ions from internal stores and by activating calcium influx. Here we show that, in airway ciliated cells, extracellular sodium ions (Na+(0)) specifically and competitively inhibit an ATP0-gated channel that is permeable to calcium ions, and thereby attenuate ATP0-induced ciliary motility. Our finding points to a physiological role for Na+(0) in ciliary function, and indicates that mucociliary clearance might be improved in respiratory disorders such as chronic bronchitis and cystic fibrosis by decreasing the sodium concentration of the airway surface fluid in which the cilia are bathed.

Somatostatin actions are mediated through G-protein coupled receptors named sst(1) to sst(5). We used an affinity-purified polyclonal antibody AS-69, directed against a specific N-terminal peptide sequence of sst(3) to determine the immunohistochemical distribution of the sst(3) receptor in the rat and human brain. The specificity of the antibody was shown by Western blotting experiments using an N-terminal sst(3) fusion protein. Enzymatic deglycosylation experiments were combined to blotting experiments on a sst(3)-transfected cell line and rat brain membrane proteins and with immunocytochemistry on the sst(3)-transfected cell line. These studies showed that the antibody detected the deglycosylated sst(3) receptor protein. Immunohistochemical staining showed that sst(3) immunoreactivity recognised by this N-terminal antiserum was widely distributed throughout the brain with cells and processes labelled in the cerebral cortex, regions of the limbic system (including the hippocampal formation, some amygdaloid regions, some basal ganglia nuclei and regions from the nucleus basalis complex), the habenula, the hypothalamus, the thalamus, different mesencephalic structures (substantia nigra, zona incerta, superior colliculus), the reticular formation, the cerebellum. The distribution of immunoreactivity was in good general agreement with that predicted from the localisation of sst(3) mRNA and radio-ligand binding studies; however, due to the preference of AS-69 towards the deglycosylated receptor, it appears that the sst(3) immunoreactivity detected may correspond largely to the deglycosylated receptor. This study on the immunohistochemical distribution of the sst(3) receptor in the brain may provide a better understanding of the central actions of somatotropin release-inhibiting factor (SRIF).
The aim of the study was to determine which factors regulated the expression of neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) mRNA in cultured primary Schwann cells derived from sciatic nerve of neonatal rats. Treatment of primary Schwann cells with the adenylate cyclase activator, forskolin, or the cAMP agonist, 8-Br-cAMP, induced a significant reduction in NT-3 transcript levels. Transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1) and glial growth factor 2 (GGF(2)) also reduced the levels of NT-3 mRNA in a dose and time-dependent manner. Treatment with nerve growth factor, brain-derived neurotrophic factor, NT-3, ciliary neurotrophic factor or interleukin-1beta was without effect. The TGF-beta1, GGF(2) and forskolin dependent reduction in NT-3 mRNA levels involved a destabilization of transcripts which was antagonised by co-treatment with cycloheximide. The cAMP-dependent protein kinase A (PKA) inhibitor, H-89, blocked the reduction in levels of NT-3 mRNA induced by TGF-beta1, GGF(2) and forskolin. The data show that the effects of TGF-beta1, GGF(2) and forskolin on the downregulation of NT-3 mRNA, at least in part, were due to a post-transcriptional event involving a labile protein intermediate under the control of PKA. The results suggest that the down-regulation of NT-3 mRNA in Schwann cells at a site of peripheral nerve damage may be mediated via a cAMP-dependent pathway and possibly involve neuroma-related elevations in TGF-beta1 and GGF(2).
Recent behavioral studies using pharmacological techniques have demonstrated that the high affinity substance P (SP) receptor, neurokinin-1 receptor (NK-1), in the medial hypothalamus could be important in mediating defensive rage behavior in the cat. These observations prompted us to use molecular techniques to determine the distribution of NK-1 in the hypothalamus and in other regions of the forebrain relevant to the control of rage behavior. We cloned a 650 bp fragment of the cat NK-1 cDNA. Partial DNA sequence analyses of this fragment indicate 90% homology with the human cDNA. By in situ hybridization (ISH), we showed that NK-1 mRNA was localized in the cytoplasm but not nuclei of cat forebrain neurons. Furthermore, NK-1 mRNA was co-localized in neurons that displayed positive immunolabeling for glutamate or GABA. Moderate labeling was visualized in the anterior medial hypothalamus which receives significant SP input via the stria terminalis from the medial amygdala. Strong labeling was also observed in the basal amygdaloid complex. The functional significance of this labeling pattern is suggested from the observation that both the medial and basal complex of amygdala serve as powerful modulators of defensive rage behavior. Weaker labeling was seen over the posterior medial and lateral hypothalamus. The distribution of NK-1 in the hypothalamus was matched by that of SP-immunoreactive axons and pre-terminals that were observed in the hypothalamus. The overall findings provide anatomical evidence to show that the high affinity SP receptor, NK-1, is linked to glutamate and GABA neurons in the anterior medial hypothalamus and further suggests its likely role in the regulation of feline aggression.
Amyloid beta protein (A beta P) forms senile plaques in the cerebrocortical blood vessels and brain parenchyma of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). The nonfamilial or sporadic AD (SAD), the most prevalent form of AD, has been correlated with an increased level of 40-residue A beta P (A beta P1-40). However, very little is known about the role of A beta P1-40 in AD pathophysiology. We have examined the activity of A beta P1-40 reconstituted in phospholipid vesicles. A combined light fluorescence and atomic force microscope (AFM) was used to image the structure of reconstituted vesicles and 45Ca2+ uptake was used as an assay for calcium permeability across the vesicular membrane. Vesicles reconstituted with fresh and globular A beta P1-40 contain a significant amount of A0 beta P and exhibit strong immunofluorescence labeling with an antibody raised against the N-terminal domain of A beta P, suggesting the incorporation of A beta P1-40 peptide in the vesicular membrane. Vesicles reconstituted with A beta P1-40 exhibited a significant level of 45Ca2+ uptake. The vesicular calcium level saturated over time, showing an important ion channel characteristic. The 45Ca2+ uptake was inhibited by (i) a monoclonal antibody raised against the N-terminal region of A beta P and (ii) Zn2+. However, a reducing agent (DTT) did not inhibit the 45Ca2+ uptake, indicating that the oxidation of A beta P or its surrounding lipid molecules is not directly involved in A beta P-mediated Ca2+ uptake. These findings provide biochemical and structural evidence that fresh and globular A beta P1-40 forms calcium-permeable channels and thus may induce cellular toxicity by regulating the calcium homeostasis in nonfamilial or sporadic Alzheimer's disease.

The staggerer mutation causes dysgenesis of the cerebellar cortex in the homozygous mutant (Rora(sg)/Rora(sg)). The mutation acts intrinsically within the Purkinje cells (PCs), leading to cytological abnormalities and a severe deficit in the number of these cells. In contrast, in the heterozygous staggerer (Rora(+)/Rora(sg)), the cytoarchitecture of the cerebellar cortex appears to be normal, but quantitative studies have revealed a significant loss of cerebellar neurons with advancing age. In the heterozygous reeler (+/rl), another mutant presenting a PC loss with age, we have found that only males were affected (Hadj-Sahraoui et al., 1996). In the present study, we have investigated whether a similar gender effect exists in the heterozygous staggerer during life span. PCs were counted on cerebellar sagittal sections in male and female Rora(+)/Rora(sg) and in their Rora(+)/Rora(+) littermates at 1, 3, 9, 13, 18, and 24 months of age. In the Rora(+)/Rora(+), the number of PCs remained stable until 18 months, but there was a 25% significant loss in 24- month-old mice of both genders. During life span, Rora(+)/Rora(+) males had slightly more PC than females. In the Rora(+)/Rora(sg) of both genders, the deficit in PC number was similar at 13 months but it appeared earlier in males, beginning between 1 and 3 months, and was aggravated regularly up to 13 months. By contrast, the decline was delayed and more abrupt in Rora(+)/Rora(sg) females, from a value still normal at 9 months to its maximal extent at 13 months. In view of these results, the heterozygous (Rora(+)/Rora(sg)) mouse offers an interesting model to test the interaction between sex, age, and genetic background on the development and maintenance of cerebellar neuronal populations.

Phencyclidine (PCP) has been shown to cause neurotoxicity in rat retrosplenial cortex following a single administration, although the precise mechanism underlying PCP-induced neurotoxicity is unclear. Using in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry, we studied the effects of PCP on expression of immediate early gene zif268 mRNA and zif268 protein in the rat brain. High constitutive levels of zif268 mRNA and zif268 immunoreactivity were observed in the brain of control rats. Administration of PCP (12.5, 25 or 50 mg/kg, i.p., 6 h) caused marked induction of zif268 mRNA in the rat retrosplenial cortex, in a dose-dependent manner. However, the basal levels of zif268 mRNA in the other regions of cerebral cortex were decreased by administration of PCP. Emulsion-autoradiographical study suggested that marked expression of zif268 mRNA was observed in the layers III and IV of retrosplenial cortex where the neurotoxicity of PCP was detected. Furthermore, zif268 immunoreactivity in the layer IV of retrosplenial cortex was not changed by administration of PCP (25 mg/kg, i.p., 5 h), but that in the other layers of retrosplenial cortex was reduced by PCP. These results suggest that immediate early gene zif268 may, in part, play a role in the neurotoxicity of NMDA receptor antagonists such as PCP.
ATP may have a modulatory effect on cholinergic transmission, as it is known that ATP is released as a co-transmitter with acetylcholine from nerve terminals. The ability of ATP to influence the binding of acetylcholine to the M(1) muscarinic acetylcholine receptor expressed in intact CHO cells was investigated. In competition binding experiments, acetylcholine completely inhibited the binding of [3H]N-methylscopolamine, but yielded a shallow competition isotherm that was best described in terms of two affinity states. When these experiments were repeated in the presence of 1 mM ATP, the acetylcholine competition curve was better described in terms of a single, low-affinity state with a Hill slope not significantly different from unity. This modulatory effect of ATP was completely reversed by the addition of the P(2) purinoceptor antagonist, suramin, to the assay medium. When the competition between the muscarinic receptor antagonist, atropine, and [3H]N-methylscopolamine was investigated, however, ATP was unable to modulate the binding of atropine, which was consistent with a one-site binding model in each instance. In contrast to the intact cell studies, ATP did not affect either affinity state of acetylcholine binding when studied in homogenate preparations. The results of the present study indicate that ATP, acting via endogenously expressed purinoceptors, is able to influence agonist binding to the M(1) muscarinic acetylcholine receptor via a cross-talk that requires the functional integrity of intact CHO cells.
The intervals between self-injections of cocaine by rats are defined by an equation that contains only three parameters: the dose of cocaine administered, the elimination half-life of cocaine, and an amount of cocaine in the body, which we have termed the cocaine satiety threshold. This latter parameter is defined as the maximal level of cocaine at which the probability of self-administration approximates one and above which the probability of self-administration is low. The mathematical model generated mean values for the satiety threshold and the functional elimination half-life of cocaine of approximately 1.7 mg/kg (i.v.) and 8.2 min, respectively. Therefore, the simple equations presented here permit the measurement of the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of cocaine using self-administration behavior as a bioassay. Our satiety model predicts that when cocaine levels are maintained above the satiety threshold, rats would not self-administer cocaine. The elimination rate of cocaine at the satiety threshold was calculated to be approximately 2 microg kg(-1) s(-1). Therefore, an infusion of cocaine at this rate should maintain cocaine levels fractionally above the satiety threshold. A continuous infusion of cocaine at this rate prevented cocaine self-administration for the duration of the infusion, thereby confirming the validity of the satiety model. These equations provide a quantitative description of cocaine self-administration and contain no subjective terms, implying that concepts such as &quot;craving&quot;, drug &quot;wanting&quot; and &quot;liking&quot; and &quot;reinforcement&quot;, used in psychologically oriented models, are not necessary for descriptions of this behavior in rats.
Human family and twin studies have established considerable heritable components in personality traits as assessed by self-report questionnaires. Recently, an association between a functional polymorphism in the upstream regulatory region of the serotonin transporter gene and neuroticism-related personality traits was reported. Two different serotonin transporter polymorphisms including the previously associated variant were genotyped in two samples of healthy Swedish subjects (n = 127 and n = 178, respectively) assessed with the Karolinska Scales of Personality (KSP) inventory. No statistically significant association between serotonin transporter polymorphisms and any of the eight neuroticism-related KSP scales was found. Thus, the previously reported association between serotonin transporter alleles and neuroticism-related personality traits could not be replicated in the present study.
Over the last three years several studies have investigated the hypothesis of linkage between bipolar disorder and markers on chromosome 18. Although independent groups have reported positive results, it is still not clear how these should be interpreted, as linkage spans a considerably large segment of the chromosome. In this study we have investigated linkage with chromosome 18 markers in 19 families of lithium-responsive bipolar patients, as a way to select a more homogeneous population. In addition, we have investigated whether there is evidence of a parent-of-origin effect as suggested by previous studies. Eleven markers spanning the whole chromosome were typed and linkage analysis was carried out using parametric and nonparametric methods. Analysis of the whole sample provided nonsignificant linkage results. However, when the sample included only unilineal families, and was further stratified according to parental origin, two chromosomal regions provided modestly positive lod scores. Maximum lod scores of 1.04 (P = 0.001) at D18S53 and 0.87 (P = 0.045) at D18S61 were observed for maternal and paternal pedigrees, respectively. Nonparametric analysis yielded similar results. In conclusion, our results are congruent with previous reports that suggest an advantage of unilineal pedigrees in linkage analysis of bipolar disorder and cannot rule out a parent-of-origin effect in this genomic region.
There is considerable controversy regarding a putative association between schizophrenia and a biallelic BalI polymorphism in the first exon of the dopamine D3 receptor gene (DRD3), although meta-analyses of published data suggest an association. If such an association exists, it may be detectable at markers physically close to DRD3. Accordingly, we conducted a case-control association study using D3S1310, a short tandem repeat polymorphism located approximately 700 kb telomeric to DRD3 on chromosome 3q13.3. The subjects were Swedish patients with schizophrenia (DSM III-R criteria, n = 110) and screened adult controls (n = 83). A trend for a negative association with the 141 bp allele was detected (chi2 = 7.6, d.f. = 1, P = 0.006; odds ratio 0.46, 95% confidence intervals 0.26, 0.81). However, following corrections for multiple comparisons using subgroups (n = 15) the difference was not significant. Also, due to the risk for population stratification in case-control association studies the results must be treated as tentative. If replicated the results may lend further support for the proposition of an association between schizophrenia and DRD3 or a gene in close proximity to DRD3 on chromosome 3q.
Nutrient stimulation of pancreatic beta-cells increases the cellular reduced pyridine nucleotide content, but the specific role of cytosolic redox state in glucose-induced insulin release (GIIR) remains undetermined. The role of cytosolic redox state has been assessed (as reflected by the lactate/pyruvate ratio) in nutrient- and non-nutrient-induced insulin release using a recently established glucose-sensitive clonal beta-cell line (BRIN-BD11). Long-term exposure to the NAD+ precursor vitamin nicotinic acid (NA, 100 microM) was used to promote a more oxidized state in the cytosol. Glucose (2-16 mM) evoked a dose-dependent rise in the cytosolic NADH/NAD+ ratio which was linearly related to the extent of GIIR. NA suppressed the glucose-induced rise in the NADH/NAD+ ratio and concomitantly reduced GIIR by 44%. It also inhibited, by 47%, the average glucose-induced rise in cytosolic free Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i, assessed by fura-2 microfluorometry from single cells). The latter effect was not accounted for by a reduction in the activity of voltage-sensitive Ca2+ channels, inasmuch as both high K+- and tolbutamide-induced [Ca2+]i rises remained insensitive to NA exposure. NA did not affect insulin release evoked by any of the depolarizing agents, indicating that steps in the stimulus-secretion coupling cascade distal to Ca2+ influx are insensitive to changes in the cytosolic redox state. It is concluded that GIIR is partially controlled by the cytosolic redox state. Moreover, the impairment in GIIR, caused by a shift toward a more oxidized state in the cytosol, originates from an attenuated [Ca2+]i response. The latter is likely mediated by the influence of cytosolic redox state on specific metabolic pathways (NADH shuttle systems and/or the malonyl-CoA pathway), leading ultimately to enhancement of the activity of ATP-sensitive K+ channels.
Recently we cloned a new member of the X11 protein family, X11L2 (gene symbol APBA3) which interacts with Alzheimer's beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP) and has three protein-protein interaction domains, a phosphotyrosine interacting domain (PID) and two PDZ. Here, we report the genomic structure and mapping of the APBA3. The gene spans about 11 kb and is composed of ten coding exons and one untranslated exon. The transcription start site of APBA3 was found in a CpG island. About 1.2 kb of the 5'-flanking region was also sequenced, and its functional promoter activity was confirmed by transient transfection experiments. The APBA3 was localized by the radiation hybrid mapping to chromosome 19. Determination of the APBA3 genome structure will facilitate the linkage analysis and search for mutations in the APBA3 in patients with Alzheimer's disease.
Predator cues (both mammalian odour or avian vocalizations) are known to elicit fear-associated responses in rodents, including analgesia. In previous studies it was reported that spiny mice fail to show fear responses when presented with the calls of an owl. In order to test the hypothesis that this species (living in semiarid and rocky areas) may react to stimuli coming from reptilian predators, 40 sexually mature spiny mice (20 males, 20 females) were individually exposed to a small cylinder containing either fresh sawdust or snake odour. Behavioural changes (5 min before and 15 min after odour exposure) as well as the subsequent performance in a hot-plate test (500.5C) were assessed. Results indicate that exposure to the odour of a sympatric terrestrial predator affected both behavioural and physiological responses of spiny mice. Upon exposure to snake odour both sexes showed significant changes in the patterns of inactivity, sniffing, grooming, sniffing the stimulus object (SO), withdraw reaction and in the frequency of somersaults. However, males increased the frequency of rearing, sniffing the SO, decreasing grooming more than females. No analgesic effect of odour exposure emerged; however, males showed significantly shorter latencies and higher frequencies of hindpaw licking compared to females.
The sarcoglycan complex consists of four membrane-spanning proteins and was shown to be exclusively distributed in striated muscles. In this study, we analyzed the pattern of expression of the mRNAs and proteins of the sarcoglycan subunits during cell differentiation in a culture of myocytes. All four sarcoglycan mRNAs were detectable in proliferating cells, and expression of the alpha- and gamma-subunits was up-regulated by 20- and 50-fold following muscle cell fusion. However, sarcoglycan proteins were scarcely detectable in proliferating cells and were first detected 2 days after the induction to be differentiated. The accumulation of the sarcoglycan protein subunits was accompanied by cell differentiation. The discrepancy between the expression of the mRNAs and proteins of the sarcoglycan subunits in proliferating cells may be ascribed to rapid degradation of the protein.

The present study tested the effects of EUK-134, a synthetic superoxide dismutase/catalase mimetic, on several indices of oxidative stress and neuropathology produced in the rat limbic system as a result of seizure activity elicited by systemic kainic acid (KA) administration. Pretreatment of rats with EUK-134 did not modify the latency for or duration of KA-induced seizure activity. It did produce a highly significant reduction in increased protein nitration, activator protein-1- and NF-kappaB-binding activity, and spectrin proteolysis as well as in neuronal damage resulting from seizure activity in limbic structures. These results support the hypothesis that kainate-induced excitotoxicity is caused, at least in part, by the action of reactive oxygen species. Furthermore, they suggest that synthetic superoxide dismutase/catalase mimetics such as EUK-134 might be used to prevent excitotoxic neuronal injury.
gamma-Aminobutyric acid type A (GABA-A) receptors are a major mediator of inhibitory neurotransmission in the mammalian central nervous system, and the site of action of a number of clinically important drugs. These receptors exist as a family of subtypes with distinct temporal and spatial patterns of expression and distinct properties that presumably underlie a precise role for each subtype. The newest member of this gene family is the theta subunit. The deduced polypeptide sequence is 627 amino acids long and has highest sequence identity (50.5%) with the beta1 subunit. Within the rat striatum, this subunit coassembles with alpha2, beta1, and gamma1, suggesting that gamma-aminobutyric acid type A receptors consisting of arrangements other than alpha beta + gamma, delta, or epsilon do exist. Expression of alpha2beta1gamma1theta in transfected mammalian cells leads to the formation of receptors with a 4-fold decrease in the affinity for gamma-aminobutyric acid compared with alpha2beta1gamma1. This subunit has a unique distribution, with studies so far suggesting significant expression within monoaminergic neurons of both human and monkey brain.
Phosphorylation can affect the function of microtubule-associated protein tau. Here, the human brain tau with 441 amino acids was phosphorylated by cyclic-AMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) or glycogen synthase kinase-3beta. PKA-phosphorylated tau (2.7 mol phosphates/mol) does not promote tubulin assembly as judged by spectrophotometric and atomic force microscopy measurements, unless trimethylamine N-oxide (TMAO), a natural occurring osmolyte, is included in these assays. TMAO is also found to promote tubulin assembly of glycogen synthase kinase-3beta-phosphorylated tau (1.6 mol phosphates/mol). TMAO does not act by causing a chemical dephosphorylation of phosphorylated tau, but it acts to overcome the functional deficit caused by phosphorylation. PKA-phosphorylated tau binds to tubulin in the presence of TMAO and lowers the critical concentration of tubulin needed for assembly. From these data, we conclude that PKA-phosphorylated tau retains the ability to bind tubulin and promote tubulin assembly. TMAO is required, however, to sensitize the reaction. Possible uses of TMAO in relation to studies of tubulin assembly in vitro, in intact cells, and in relation to Alzheimer's disease are presented in this report.

A series of conformationally restricted Gabapentin analogues has been synthesised. The pyrrolidine analogue (R)-2-Aza-spiro[4.5]decane-4-carboxylic acid hydrochloride (3a) had an IC50 of 120 nM, similar to that of Gabapentin (IC50 = 140 nM), at the Gabapentin binding site on the alpha2delta subunit of a calcium channel. Compound (3a) also reversed carrageenan induced hyperalgesia in rats.

The mRNA expression for preprotachykinin-A (PPT-A) was studied throughout the human and cynomolgus monkey brain to assess the neuroanatomical expression pattern of the PPT-A gene in primates. In situ hybridization showed that the PPT-A mRNA is expressed highly in specific regions of the postmortem human brain, including the striatum, islands of Calleja, hypothalamus (posterior, premammillary, medial mammillary, and ventromedial nuclei), superior and inferior colliculi, periaqueductal gray, and oculomotor nuclear complex. PPT-A mRNA-expressing neurons also were present in the paranigralis (ventral tegmental area) and were scattered in the bed nucleus stria terminalis throughout the sublenticular substantia innominata region, including the diagonal band of Broca and the nucleus basalis of Meynert. In the hippocampus, high PPT-A mRNA expression was localized predominantly to the polymorphic layer of the dentate gyrus; no labeled cells were present in the granular layer. Positively labeled cells also were found scattered in the CA regions as well as in the amygdaloid complex. Neocortical expression of PPT-A mRNA was localized mainly to the deep laminae (layers V/VI), except for the striate cortex (labeling was seen also in superficial layers). The subiculum, thalamus, globus pallidus, ventral pallidum, substantia nigra pars compacta, red nucleus, pontine nuclei, and cerebellum were characterized by very weak to undetectable expression of PPT-A mRNA. An expression pattern was evident in the monkey forebrain similar to that observed in the human, except for the absence of PPT mRNA-expressing cells in the medial mammillary nucleus despite intense expression in supramammillary, lateral mammillary, and premammillary nuclei. Overall, more similarities than differences are apparent between primate species in the expression pattern of the PPT-A gene. J. Comp. Neurol. 411;56-72, 1999.
Differences in the specificity of coupling of delta-opioid receptor with G-protein have been reported in the literature. We have observed a differential desensitization of delta-opioid receptors, endogenously expressed in the neuroblastoma cell line SK-N-BE, induced by peptide and alkaloid agonists. By combining photoaffinity labelling of receptor-activated G-proteins with [alpha-(32)P]azidoanilide-GTP and an anti-sense oligodeoxynucleotide strategy, we examined whether the chemical nature of opioid agonists, alkaloid or peptide, has a critical role in determining a G(i)alpha/G(o)alpha-protein-selective activation by the human delta-opioid receptors. Etorphine, a non-selective alkaloid agonist, was shown to stimulate the incorporation of [alpha-(32)P]azidoanilide-GTP into G(i)alpha1, G(i)alpha2, G(i)alpha3 and pertussis-toxin-insensitive Galpha subunits. In contrast, [d-Pen(2),d-Pen(5)]enkephalin (DPDPE; Pen is penicillamine) and Tyr-d-Ala-Phe-Asp-Val-Val-Gly-NH(2) (deltorphin I), selective peptide agonists, mainly activated G(i)alpha2 and G(o)alpha2 subunits. The 'knock-down' of G(o)alpha2 subunits by anti-sense oligodeoxynucleotides selectively decreased the inhibition of adenylate cyclase induced by DPDPE and deltorphin I, whereas anti-sense oligodeoxynucleotides directed against G(i)alpha2 subunits only decreased the potency of etorphine in inhibiting cAMP accumulation. These results suggest that the nature of the agonist, peptide or alkaloid is critical in determining the interaction between human delta-opioid receptors and Galpha subunits.
The dose-dependent inhibition of zinc and cadmium ions of agonist binding to A1 adenosine receptors in rat brain is prevented by histidine and cysteine, respectively. In the present study, the possible different mechanisms of Zn2+ and Cd2+ inhibitions were examined. The effects of Zn2+ and Cd2+ on equilibrium binding parameters of the agonists N6-cyclohexyl-[2,8-3H]-adenosine ([3H]CHA) or chloro-N6-cyclopentyl-adenosine ([3H]CCPA) and the antagonist cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine ([3H]DPCPX) were compared with those effects of reagents or binding conditions which altered histidyl or cysteinyl residues of the A1 receptor. Zn2+ pretreatment did not change A1 agonist or antagonist affinity, but did reduce the Bmax. The inhibitory effects of Zn2+ pretreatments were also maintained after several membrane washings. Diethylpyrocarbonate, a histidine-specific alkylating reagent, behaved like zinc ions: pretreatment with A1 agonist protected the histidyl residues of the [3H]CHA binding site against modification by Zn2+, while the modification of the protonation state of the nitrogen of the imidazole group of histidines by changing pH indicated that the interactions of Zn2+ with the histidyl residues were feasible with their unprotonated form. These findings suggest the formation of coordination bonds between Zn2+ and histidines critical for [3H]CHA or [3H]DPCPX binding, which may prevent the ligand interaction with the specific sites without modifying the binding kinetics of radioligand to the non-chelated recognition sites. Cd2+ pretreatment reduced the [3H]CCPA affinity, but did not modify the affinity of the antagonist [3H]DPCPX, the Bmax remaining unaffected. As with cadmium effects, the oxidation of the thiol group of cysteine by dithionitrobenzoic acid (DTNB) reduced [3H]CCPA affinity without changing the number of binding sites. The reducing reagent dithiothreitol, which alone was unable to modify [3H]CCPA binding, overcame the inhibiting effects of both Cd2+ and DTNB. These findings suggest that cadmium ions may oxidize SH groups of cysteines localized on the A1 receptor molecule or a cysteine localized in the region of G(i)alpha subunit involved in the coupling with receptors. This mechanism can justify potential conformational modifications of the receptor molecule producing the decrease in affinity.

We have previously demonstrated that endothelin-1 (Et-1) induces human central nervous system-derived endothelial cells (CNS-EC) to produce and secrete the chemokine interleukin 8 (IL-8). In the present study, we use specific inhibitors and activators to elucidate the signal transduction pathways involved in this process. Et-1-induced IL-8 production was blocked by ET(A) receptor antagonist BQ610, but not by ET(B) receptor antagonist BQ788, demonstrating that CNS-EC activation is initiated by Et-1 binding to the ET(A) receptor. IL-8 mRNA expression is blocked by the protein kinase C inhibitor bisindolylmaleimide or protein tyrosine kinase inhibitors, genestein and geldanamycin, establishing the involvement of the protein kinase C and protein tyrosine kinase pathways in the activation process. The transcription factor, NF-kappaB, is involved in Et-1 activation as determined by specific inhibitors of translocation and direct analysis of DNA-binding proteins. Neither inhibition nor activation of cAMP-dependent protein kinase affected IL-8 production in the absence or presence of Et-1. Similarly, no effect was observed upon inhibition of protein phosphatases by okadaic acid. Thus, the signal transduction process induced by Et-1 in CNS-EC, leading to increased mRNA IL-8 expression, is initiated by Et-1 binding to ET(A) receptor followed by subsequent activation of protein kinase C, protein tyrosine kinase, and NF-kappaB. Because increased expression of Et-1 is associated with hypertension and stroke and IL-8 is likely to be involved in the accumulation of neutrophils causing tissue damage in ischemic/reperfusion injury, identification of the mechanism involved in the Et-1-induced increase in IL-8 production may have significant therapeutic value.
Hyaluronic acid in the basilar artery of 10 patients with sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and 7 age-matched control subjects was examined histochemically and densitometrically. The intensity of staining with alcian blue was significantly increased (P=0.0007) in the media in ALS patients compared with that in control subjects. The staining was virtually eliminated by Streptomyces hyaluronidase. These results clearly indicate an increase of hyaluronic acid in the media of the basilar artery in ALS patients.
This study examined intermittent, high-frequency (100-200 Hz) oscillatory patterns in the CA1 region of the hippocampus in the absence of theta activity, i.e., during and in between sharp wave (SPW) bursts. Pyramidal and interneuronal activity was phase-locked not only to large amplitude (&gt;7 SD from baseline) oscillatory events, which are present mainly during SPWs, but to smaller amplitude (&lt;4 SD) patterns, as well. Large-amplitude events were in the 140-200 Hz, &quot;ripple&quot; frequency range. Lower-amplitude events, however, contained slower, 100-130 Hz (&quot;slow&quot;) oscillatory patterns. Fast ripple waves reversed just below the CA1 pyramidal layer, whereas slow oscillatory potentials reversed in the stratum radiatum and/or in the stratum oriens. Parallel CA1-CA3 recordings revealed correlated CA3 field and unit activity to the slow CA1 waves but not to fast ripple waves. These findings suggest that fast ripples emerge in the CA1 region, whereas slow (100-130 Hz) oscillatory patterns are generated in the CA3 region and transferred to the CA1 field.
The ovarian hormones estradiol (E(2)) and progesterone (P) facilitate rat lordosis behavior in part by regulating the expression of and signal transduction by adrenoceptors in the hypothalamus (HYP) and preoptic area (POA). The major adrenoceptor subtype mediating E(2) and P facilitation of lordosis is the alpha(1)-adrenoceptor. In the present studies, we tested the hypotheses that (1) alpha(1)-adrenoceptors in the HYP enhance lordosis responses by activating the nitric oxide (NO)-cGMP signaling pathway, and (2) coupling of alpha(1)-adrenoceptors to this signal transduction pathway is hormone-dependent. Basal levels of cGMP were significantly higher in HYP and POA slices from animals treated with E(2) and P when compared with slices from ovariectomized controls or females treated with only E(2) or P. When slices of HYP and POA from ovariectomized female rats were incubated with norepinephrine or the selective alpha(1)-adrenoceptor agonist phenylephrine, cGMP accumulation was observed only if slices had been derived from females treated with both E(2) and P before experimentation. Moreover, alpha(1)-adrenoceptor stimulation of cGMP synthesis was blocked by an inhibitor of NO synthase, confirming that these receptors act by NO-mediated stimulation of soluble guanylyl cyclase. Behavioral studies demonstrated further that the cell-permeable cGMP analog 8-bromoadenosine-cGMP reverses the inhibitory effects of the alpha(1)-adrenoceptor antagonist prazosin on lordosis behavior in E(2)- and P-treated female rats. Thus, the NO-cGMP pathway mediates the facilitatory effects of alpha(1)-adrenoceptors on lordosis behavior in female rats, and previous exposure of the HYP and POA to both E(2) and P are required to link alpha(1)-adrenoceptors to this pathway.
The pro-opiomelanocortinergic (POMCergic) system originating in the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus extends projections widely over the brain and has been shown to be intricately linked and parallel to the arcuate neuropeptide Y (NPY) system. Both NPY and POMC-derived peptides (melanocortins) have been strongly implicated in the control of feeding behavior, with the former exerting orexigenic effects and the latter having anorexigenic properties. Mice homozygous for the lethal anorexia (anx) mutation are hypophagic, emaciated, and exhibit anomalous processing of NPY exclusively in the arcuate nucleus, providing an interesting model to study NPY-POMC interactions. In the present study, several morphological markers were used to investigate the histochemistry and morphology of the POMC system in anx/anx mice. In situ hybridization demonstrated decreased numbers of POMC mRNA-expressing neurons in the anx/anx arcuate nucleus. In parallel, mRNA levels for both the NPY Y1 and Y5 receptors, which are expressed in POMC neurons, were decreased. Also, expression of the NPY Y2 autoreceptor was attenuated. Immunohistochemistry using antibodies against adrenocorticotropic hormone to demonstrate POMC cell bodies, against alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone to demonstrate axonal projections and against the NPY Y1 receptor to demonstrate dendritic arborizations, showed strikingly decreased immunoreactivities for all these markers. The present data suggest that degeneration of the arcuate POMC system is a feature characteristic of the anx/anx mouse. The possible relationship to the NPYergic phenotype of this animal is discussed.
Members of the bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) family have been implicated in multiple aspects of neural development in both the CNS and peripheral nervous system. BMP ligands and receptors, as well as the BMP antagonist noggin, are expressed in the developing cerebral cortex, making the BMPs likely candidates for regulating cortical development. To define the role of these factors in the developing cerebral cortex, we examined the effects of BMP2 and BMP4 on cortical cells in vitro. Cells were cultured from embryonic day 13 (E13) and E16 rat cerebral cortex in the absence or presence of different concentrations of fibroblast growth factor 2, a known regulator of cortical cell proliferation and differentiation. At E13, the BMPs promoted cell death and inhibited proliferation of cortical ventricular zone cells, resulting in the generation of fewer neurons and no glia. At E16, the effects of the BMPs were more complex. Concentrations of BMP2 in the range of 1-10 ng/ml promoted neuronal and astroglial differentiation and inhibited oligodendroglial differentiation, whereas 100 ng/ml BMP2 promoted cell death and inhibited proliferation. Addition of the BMP antagonist noggin promoted oligodendrogliogenesis in vitro, demonstrating that endogenous BMP signaling influences the differentiation of cortical cells in vitro. The distribution of BMP2 and noggin within the developing cortex suggests that local concentrations of ligands and antagonists define gradients of BMP signaling during corticogenesis. Together, these results support the hypothesis that the BMPs and their antagonist noggin co-regulate cortical cell fate and morphogenesis.
The role of nitric oxide (NO) as a mediator of synaptic plasticity is controversial in both the adult and developing brain. NO generation appears to be necessary for some types of NMDA receptor-dependent synaptic plasticity during development but not for others. Our previous work using several NO donors revealed that Xenopus laevis retinal ganglion cell axons stop growing in response to NO exposure. We demonstrate here that the same response occurs in tectal neuron processes bathed in the NO donor S-nitrosocysteine (SNOC) and in RGC growth cones to which SNOC is very locally applied. We show that NO synthase (NOS) activity is present in the Rana pipiens optic tectum throughout development in a dispersed subpopulation of tectal neurons, although effects of NO on synaptic function in a Rana pipiens tectal slice were varied. We chronically inhibited NOS in doubly innervated Rana tadpole optic tecta using L-N(G)-nitroarginine methyl ester in Elvax. Despite significant NOS inhibition as measured biochemically, eye-specific stripes remained normally segregated. This suggests that NOS activity is not downstream of NMDA receptor activation during retinotectal synaptic competition because NMDA receptor activation is necessary for segregation of retinal afferents into ocular dominance stripes in the doubly innervated tadpole optic tectum. We conclude that NO has some signaling function in the retinotectal pathway, but this function is not critical to the mechanism that refines the projection and causes eye-specific stripes.
During CNS development, changes occur in expression of GABA(A) receptor subunit subtypes and GABA(A) receptor pharmacological and biophysical properties. We used reverse transcription PCR and whole-cell-recording techniques to determine whether GABA(A) receptor expression and function also changed during retinoic acid-induced differentiation of human Ntera 2 (NT2) teratocarcinoma cells into neuron-like cells (NT2-N cells). In undifferentiated NT2 cells only alpha5, beta3, gamma3, and pi subtype mRNAs were detected. NT2 GABA(A) receptor currents had a maximal amplitude of 52 pA and an EC(50) of 4.0 microM, were relatively insensitive to enhancement by zolpidem and diazepam, and were enhanced by loreclezole and inhibited by lanthanum, zinc, and furosemide. In contrast, in NT2-N cells after 13 weeks of retinoic acid treatment, all GABA(A) receptor subtype mRNAs were detected. Maximal peak whole-cell currents were approximately 50-fold larger than NT2 cell currents, and the GABA EC(50) was higher (39.7 microM). In 13 week NT2-N cells, diazepam, zolpidem, loreclezole, and lanthanum had only small effects on GABA(A) receptor currents, and the zinc IC(50) for current inhibition was significantly higher than that for NT2 cells. In a previous study, we showed that NT2-N cells after 5 weeks of retinoic acid treatment had moderate peak currents, GABA EC(50,) and zinc IC(50) but that currents were robustly enhanced by diazepam, zolpidem, and loreclezole. During differentiation of NT2 cells to NT2-N cells, GABA(A) receptors underwent changes in subunit expression and pharmacology that were similar to many of the developmental changes in GABA(A) receptors that occur in CNS neurons.
Microelectrode recordings and optical imaging of intrinsic signals were used to define the critical period for susceptibility to monocular deprivation (MD) in the primary visual cortex of the ferret. Ferrets were monocularly deprived for 2, 7 or &gt;14 d, beginning between postnatal day 19 (P19) and P110. The responses of visual cortical neurons to stimulation of the two eyes were used to gauge the onset, peak, and decline of the critical period. MDs ending before P32 produced little or no loss of response to the deprived eye. MDs of 7 d or more beginning around P42 produced the greatest effects. A rapid decline in cortical susceptibility to MD was observed after the seventh week of life, such that MDs beginning between P50 and P65 were approximately half as effective as those beginning on P42; MDs beginning after P100 did not reduce the response to the deprived eye below that to the nondeprived eye. At all ages, 2 d deprivations were 55-85% as effective as 7 d of MD. Maps of intrinsic optical responses from the deprived eye were weaker and less well tuned for orientation than those from the nondeprived eye, with the weakest maps seen in the hemisphere ipsilateral to the deprived eye. Analysis of the effects of 7 d and longer deprivations revealed a second period of plasticity in cortical responses in which MD induced an effect like that of strabismus. After P70, MD caused a marked loss of binocular responses with little or no overall loss of response to the deprived eye. The critical period measured here is compared to other features of development in ferret and cat.
The molecular mechanisms underlying the targeting and localization of glutamate receptors at postsynaptic sites is poorly understood. Recently, we have identified a PDZ domain-containing protein, glutamate receptor-interacting protein 1 (GRIP1), which specifically binds to the C termini of AMPA receptor subunits and may be involved in the synaptic targeting of these receptors. Here, we report the cloning of GRIP2, a homolog of GRIP1, and the characterization of the GRIP1 and GRIP2 proteins in the rat CNS. GRIP1 and GRIP2 are approximately 130 kDa proteins that are highly enriched in brain. GRIP1 and GRIP2 are widely expressed in brain, with the highest levels found in the cerebral cortex, hippocampus, and olfactory bulb. Biochemical studies show that GRIP1 and GRIP2 are enriched in synaptic plasma membrane and postsynaptic density fractions. GRIP1 is expressed early in embryonic development before the expression of AMPA receptors and peaks in expression at postnatal day 8-10. In contrast, GRIP2 is expressed relatively late in development and parallels the expression of AMPA receptors. Immunohistochemistry using the GRIP1 antibodies demonstrated that GRIP1 is expressed in neurons in a somatodendritic staining pattern. At the ultrastructural level, DAB and immunogold electromicroscopy studies showed that GRIP1 was enriched in dendritic spines near the postsynaptic density and was expressed in dendritic shafts and in peri-Golgi regions in the neuronal soma. GRIP1 appeared to be clustered at both glutamatergic and GABAergic synapses. These results suggest that GRIP1 and GRIP2 are AMPA receptor binding proteins potentially involved in the targeting of AMPA receptors to synapses. GRIP1 also may play functional roles at both excitatory and inhibitory synapses, as well as in early neuronal development.
Recent studies show that glutamate transporter-mediated currents occur in astrocytes when glutamate is released from hippocampal synapses. These transporters remove excess glutamate from the extracellular space, thereby facilitating synaptic input specificity and preventing neurotoxicity. Little is known about the position of astrocytic processes at hippocampal synapses. Serial electron microscopy and three-dimensional analyses were used to investigate structural relationships between astrocytes and synapses in stratum radiatum of hippocampal area CA1 in the mature rat in vivo and in slices. Only 57 +/- 11% of the synapses had astrocytic processes apposed to them. Of these, the astrocytic processes surrounded less than half (0.43 +/- 22) of the synaptic interface. Other studies suggest that astrocytes extend processes toward higher concentrations of glutamate; thus the presence of astrocytic processes at particular hippocampal synapses might signal which ones are releasing glutamate. The distance between nearest neighboring synapses was usually (approximately 95%) &lt;1 microgram. Astrocytic processes occurred along the extracellular path between 33% of the neighboring synapses, neuronal processes occurred along the path between another 66% of the neighboring synapses, and only 1% of the synapses were close enough such that neither astrocytic nor neuronal processes occurred between them. These morphological arrangements suggest that the glutamate released at approximately two-thirds of hippocampal synapses might diffuse to other synapses, unless neuronal glutamate transporters are more effective than previously reported. The findings also suggest that physiological recordings made from hippocampal astrocytes do not uniformly sample the glutamate released from all hippocampal synapses.
I(D) is a slowly inactivating 4-aminopyridine (4-AP)-sensitive potassium current of hippocampal pyramidal neurons and other CNS neurons. Although I(D) exerts multifaceted influence on CNS excitability, whether I(D) is subject to modulation by neurotransmitters or neurohormones has not been clear. We report here that one prominent effect of metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) activation by short (3 min) exposure to 1S, 3R-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid (1S,3R-ACPD) (100 microM) is suppression of I(D) by acceleration of its inactivation. I(D) was identified as a target of mGluR-mediated modulation because inactivation of a component of outward current sensitive to 100-200 microM 4-AP was accelerated by 1S,3R-ACPD, and because 4-AP occluded any further actions of 1S,3R-ACPD. Enhancement of I(D) inactivation was induced by the group I-preferring agonist RS-3, 5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (3,5-DHPG) and the group II-preferring agonist 2S,2'R,3'R)-2-(2',3'dicarboxycyclopropyl)-glycine (DCG-IV), but not by the group III-preferring agonist L(+)-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid (L-AP4); it was blocked by the broadly acting mGluR antagonist S-alpha-methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine (S-MCPG). Furthermore, inactivation of I(D) was enhanced by inclusion of GTPgammaS in the internal solution and blocked by inclusion of GDPbetaS. Metabotropic GluR-induced suppression of I(D) was manifest in three aspects of excitability previously linked to I(D) by their sensitivity to 4-AP: reduction in input conductance and enhanced excitability at voltages just positive to the resting potential, reduced delay to action potential firing during depolarizing current injections, and delayed action potential repolarization. We suggest that mGluR-induced suppression of I(D) could contribute to enhancement of hippocampal neuron excitability and synaptic connections.
Motor patterns are selected from multifunctional networks by selective activation of different projection neurons, many of which contain multiple transmitters. Little is known about how any individual projection neuron uses its cotransmitters to select a motor pattern. We address this issue by using the stomatogastric ganglion (STG) of the crab Cancer borealis, which contains a neuronal network that generates multiple versions of the pyloric and gastric mill motor patterns. The functional flexibility of this network results mainly from modulatory inputs it receives from projection neurons that originate in neighboring ganglia. We demonstrated previously that the STG motor pattern selected by activation of the modulatory proctolin neuron (MPN) results from direct MPN modulation of the pyloric rhythm and indirect MPN inhibition of the gastric mill rhythm. The latter action results from MPN inhibition of projection neurons that excite the gastric mill rhythm. These projection neurons are modulatory commissural neuron 1 (MCN1) and commissural projection neuron 2 (CPN2). MPN excitation of the pyloric rhythm is mimicked by bath application of proctolin, its peptide transmitter. Here, we show that MPN uses only its small molecule transmitter, GABA, to inhibit MCN1 and CPN2 within their ganglion of origin. We also demonstrate that MPN has no proctolin-mediated influence on MCN1 or CPN2, although exogenously applied proctolin directly excites these neurons. Thus, motor pattern selection occurs during MPN activation via proctolin actions on the STG network and GABA-mediated actions on projection neurons in the commissural ganglia, demonstrating a spatial and functional segregation of cotransmitter actions.
Glutamate receptors guide the proliferation, migration, and differentiation of glial cells. Here, we characterize AMPA (alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-propionic acid) and NMDA receptor protein expression and function and mRNA expression in hippocampal glial cultures. By immunocytochemistry, GluR2 (the subunit that limits the Ca(2+) permeability of AMPA receptors) exhibited prominent labeling in hippocampal glial cultures. Double-labeling of GluR2 with GFAP and with A2B5 revealed GluR2 subunit expression on type-1 and type-2 astrocyte lineage cells. GluR1 subunit expression was more prominent in type-1 than in type-2 astrocytes. To characterize functional properties of glutamate receptors expressed in cultured hippocampal astrocytes, we performed whole-cell patch clamp recording. Application of L-glutamate, AMPA, and kainate, but not NMDA, to small, rounded cells (morphologically identified as type-2 astrocytes) elicited inward currents which were blocked by the AMPA/kainate antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2, 3-dione (CNQX). Cyclothiazide potentiated AMPA- and kainate-elicited currents, indicative of AMPA-preferring receptors. Current voltage analysis indicated that type-2 astrocyte AMPA receptors were electrically linear, indicative of GluR2-containing, Ca(2+)-impermeable AMPA receptors. By Northern blot analysis, GluR1 mRNA was highest in astrocyte cultures from cerebellum and hippocampus and moderate in astrocyte cultures from neocortex and striatum. GluR3 mRNA was detectable in astrocyte cultures from cerebellum and neocortex. GluR2 and NR1 mRNA expression were not detected in astrocytes cultured from any brain region examined. In situ hybridization studies showed wide expression of GluR1 mRNA in cultured astrocytes; GluR2 and GluR3 mRNAs were near background levels. Thus, cultured type-2 astrocytes express functional AMPA receptors in a cell-specific and region-specific manner, consistent with their role in neuronal-glial communication.
GM1 ganglioside was previously shown to occur in the nuclear membrane, as well as the plasma membrane, of central nervous system (CNS) and peripheral nervous system (PNS) neurons undergoing morphological differentiation in culture. NG108-15 neuroblastoma cells showed the same phenomenon when induced to extend axon-like but not dendrite-like processes, although in both cases terminal differentiation was evidenced by failure of extended neurites to retract following washout of neuritogenic agent. The present study of Neuro-2a neuroblastoma cells subjected to similar treatments has revealed both similarities and differences compared to NG108-15 cells. Similar to the latter, Neuro-2a cells responded to neuraminidase and ionomycin with axon-like outgrowth together with upregulation of nuclear GM1, and to three other agents (retinoic acid, dibutyryl cyclic AMP, exogenous GM1) with dendrite-like outgrowth that was unaccompanied by nuclear GM1 increase. Although both cell types responded to low serum by extending neurites of mixed axonal-dendritic properties, Neuro-2a, in keeping with its greater tendency to extend some neurites of axonal character in low serum, showed elevated nuclear GM1 in a significant number of such differentiated cells. All three axonogenic agents induced parallel upregulation of GM1 in plasma-, nuclear-, and Golgi membranes, and these increases were stable to washout. Neurites generated in Neuro-2a cells by the three dendritogenic agents lacked stability, unlike those produced by the same agents in NG108-15 cells. This study also amplified the differences in response triggered by exogenous GM1 compared to that resulting from enzyme-mediated elevation of endogenous GM1.
Retinal pigment epithelial cells (RPE) actively retrieve and recycle docosahexaenoic acid (DHA, 22:6n-3) from phagosomal phospholipids back to photoreceptor cells. Here we studied the fate of DHA in primary culture rat RPE cells after feeding with a suspension of rod outer segments (ROS) for 4 hr. Phospholipids (PLs), triacylglycerols (TAG), and free fatty acids were isolated from cells and media by thin layer chromatography (TLC), and their acyl groups quantified by gas liquid chromatography (GLC). In RPE cells, DHA-PLs increased 3. 5-fold by 4 hr, decreasing thereafter to 1.6-fold above basal by 24 hr. In contrast, 18:1-PLs were decreased by 13%-18% below RPE basal values by 8-24 hr, respectively. DHA-TAG showed the highest increase (21-fold) by 8 hr. Free DHA displayed a small increase in the cells with a preferential release and accumulation into the media by 24 hr. These results show that in rat RPE cells, photoreceptor cell DHA is transiently incorporated into TAG prior to its release and uptake into 18:1-PLs. These metabolic pathways and remodeling may be critical in the conservation of this essential, photoreceptor cell fatty acid.
Ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) is produced and released in response to injury in the central nervous system (CNS). While CNTF initially was characterized as a trophic factor for neurons, more recent evidence supports roles for this factor in survival, proliferation, and maturation of oligodendrocyte lineage cells. Evidence is emerging to support the hypothesis that CNTF's actions may include enhancing other growth and trophic factors. Here we tested the hypothesis that CNTF can induce expression of receptors on oligodendrocytes for factors that are known to promote their generation, maturation, and survival. Specifically, we used an in vivo paradigm to test whether CNTF, when injected stereotactically into forebrain white matter of adult rats, could induce mRNA expression for the insulin-like growth factor (IGF) type I receptor (IGF-IR), fibroblast growth factor (FGF) receptor (FGFR)-1, FGFR3, and platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) receptor-alpha (PDGFRalpha). We determined that CNTF injection increased expression of IGF-IR and FGFR1 mRNAs in adult white matter to 200-250% of control levels. Cellular analysis indicated that these receptor mRNAs were induced in interfascicular oligodendrocytes. In contrast, CNTF had no effect on levels of FGFR3 and PDGFRalpha mRNAs. These results suggest that CNTF enhances the sensitivity of oligodendrocytes to other mitogens and trophic factors via induction of their receptors.
Gliogenesis in the mammalian central nervous system does not cease abruptly like neurogenesis. Instead, glia accumulate over a time period that extends into adulthood. To determine whether new glial cells in the adult cortex arise from resident progenitors and to determine the glial types to which these progenitors give rise to, cells in the perinatal subventricular zone (SVZ) were labeled with replication-deficient retroviral vectors, and clonal clusters of glia in the neocortex were examined from 1 week to 8 months of age. The average clonal cluster size increased during the first month of life. Interestingly, clusters containing oligodendrocyte lineage cells preferentially expanded with age, on average doubling every 3 months. Unexpectedly, the number of cells in astrocyte clusters decreased over time. In heterogeneous clusters, the numbers of oligodendroglia increased, whereas the number of astrocytes did not. Moreover, clonal clusters containing mature glia also contained less mature cells, indicating that clonally related progenitors do not differentiate synchronously in vivo. Thus, progenitors from the SVZ continue to cycle, resulting in an accumulation of oligodendroglia in the neocortex. These slowly cycling cells likely express the NG2 proteoglycan because a subset of the clonal clusters contained NG2(+) cells and these NG2(+) cells accumulated with time.
1. The time course and kinetics of force development following activation by opening of L-type Ca2+ channels was investigated using photodestruction of the Ca2+ channel blocker nifedipine in smooth muscle from the guinea-pig taenia coli. 2. In muscles activated using high K+ and Ca2+ and subsequently inhibited with nifedipine, photodestruction of the drug using a strong ultraviolet light flash initiated a rapid contraction. The force initiated by photodestruction of nifedipine reached near-maximal levels. This procedure eliminates diffusional delays and can thus be used to investigate the kinetics of depolarization-induced contractions. 3. The rate of force development of contractions initiated by photodestruction of nifedipine was slower than that observed in maximally thiophosphorylated skinned fibres. This suggests the rate of force development is limited by activation steps in the activation cascade prior to the force generation of the cross-bridge system. 4. The rate of force development and the plateau force were dependent on the extracellular [CaCl2] suggesting that the intracellular [Ca2+] determines the rate of phosphorylation and force development. The delay between illumination and increase in force was about 300 ms. The delay was similar at low and high extracellular [CaCl2] indicating that buffering by superficial sarcoplasmatic reticulum does not introduce a delay in force development following activation of Ca2+ channels in this muscle.
1. Large conductance, Ca2+-activated K+ (BK) channels were identified in freshly dissociated rat supraoptic neurones using patch clamp techniques. 2. The single channel conductance of cell body BK channels, recorded from inside-out patches in symmetric 145 mM K+, was 246.1 pS, compared with 213 pS in nerve ending BK channels (P&lt;0.01). 3. At low open probability (Po), the reciprocal of the slope in the ln(NPo)-voltage relationship (N, number of available channels in the patch) for cell body and nerve ending channels were similar: 11 vs. 14 mV per e-fold change in NPo, respectively. 4. At 40 mV, the [Ca2+]i producing half-maximal activation was 273 nM, as opposed to &gt;1.53 microM for the neurohypophysial channel, indicating the higher Ca2+ sensitivity of the cell body isochannel. 5. Cell body BK channels showed fast kinetics (open time constant, 8.5 ms; fast closed time constant, 1.6 and slow closed time constant, 12.7 ms), identifying them as 'type I' isochannels, as opposed to the slow gating (type II) of neurohypophysial BK channels. 6. Cell body BK activity was reduced by 10 nM charybdotoxin (NPo, 37% of control), or 10 nM iberiotoxin (NPo, 5% of control), whereas neurohypophysial BK channels are insensitive to charybdotoxin at concentrations as high as 360 nM. 7. Whilst blockade of nerve ending BK channels markedly slowed the repolarization of evoked single spikes, blockade of cell body channels was without effect on repolarization of evoked single spikes. 8. Ethanol reversibly increased neurohypophysial BK channel activity (EC50, 22 mM; maximal effect, 100 mM). In contrast, ethanol (up to 100 mM) failed to increase cell body BK channel activity. 9. In conclusion, we have characterized BK channels in supraoptic neuronal cell bodies, and demonstrated that they display different electrophysiological and pharmacological properties from their counterparts in the nerve endings.
An efficient implementation of synaptic transmission models in realistic network simulations is an important theme of computational neuroscience. The amount of CPU time required to simulate synaptic interactions can increase as the square of the number of units of such networks, depending on the connectivity convergence. As a consequence, any realistic description of synaptic phenomena, incorporating biophysical details, is computationally highly demanding. We present a consolidating algorithm based on a biophysical extended model of ligand-gated postsynaptic channels, describing short-term plasticity such as synaptic depression. The considerable speed-up of simulation times makes this algorithm suitable for investigating emergent collective effects of short-term depression in large-scale networks of model neurons.
Excess iron in the brain has been implicated in the pathogenesis of several human neurodegenerative disorders, i.e., Parkinson's and Alzheimer's disease. The neonatal period is critical for the establishment of normal iron content in the adult brain. In the present study, the long-term neurobehavioral effects of iron exposure during this period were assessed by treating NMRI mice orally with 0.0, 3.7, or 37.0 mg Fe(2+)/kg body wt on postnatal days 10-12. Spontaneous motor behavior and radial arm maze learning were tested at the age of 3 months. It was found that the mice treated with the higher dose of Fe(2+), 37.0 mg/kg body wt, were hypoactive during the first 20 min of testing but hyperactive during the final 20 min, showing an almost complete lack of habituation of spontaneous activity in the test chambers. These changes were also seen in animals treated with the lower dose of Fe(2+), 3.7 mg/kg body wt, but the effects were less pronounced, indicating a dose-response relationship. In the radial arm maze, the Fe(2+) 37.0 mg/kg group evidenced significantly both more errors in arm choices and longer latencies to acquire all eight pellets. Both dose groups showed attenuated performance increments on successive trials. Analysis of brain iron content indicated significantly more total iron (microgram/g) in the basal ganglia, but not frontal cortex, of the higher, 37 mg/kg, dose group. The knowledge of the long-term effects of iron entering the brain during this critical period of rapid brain growth is limited. Increased amounts of iron in the brain, especially in the basal ganglia, may contribute to neurodegenerative processes.
The ectopic spontaneous discharges (ESD) of single myelinated dorsal root fiber originated from the injured dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons were recorded in vivo. When [Ca(2+)](o) perfusing the injured DRG had been enhanced or caffeine been used, the ESD was inhibited in dose-dependent manner, while using Ni(2+) or EGTA, the ESD facilitated. The increment of [K(+)](o) and the use of TEA could both facilitate the ESD in dose-dependent manner. Apamin, a special antagonist of calcium-dependent potassium channel (K(Ca)), had markedly increased the number of ESD. These results suggest that the generation of ESD has close relation to the activity of K(Ca) channel.
Recent information suggests that free radicals are closely involved in the pathogenesis and/or progression of Parkinson's disease (PD). High-dose levodopa therapy has been suggested to increase oxidative stress, thereby accelerating the progression of PD. Based on this viewpoint, free radical scavenging, antioxidant and neuroprotective agents which may prevent the progression of PD have recently attracted considerable attention. For example, ergot derivative dopamine (DA) agonists have been reported to scavenge free radicals in vitro and show a neuroprotective effect in vivo. Non-ergot DA agonists have also recently been used in the treatment of PD despite the lack of substantial evidence for any free radical scavenging activity or antioxidant activity. The present study was conducted to assess the in vitro free radical scavenging and antioxidant activities of ropinirole, a non-ergot DA agonist, as well as its glutathione (GSH), catalase and superoxide dismutase (SOD) activating effects and neuroprotective effect in vivo. Ropinirole scavenges free radicals and suppresses lipid peroxidation in vitro, but these activities are very weak, suggesting that the antioxidant effect of ropinirole observed in vitro may be a minor component of its neuroprotective effect in vivo. Administration of ropinirole for 7 days increased GSH, catalase and SOD activities in the striatum and protected striatal dopaminergic neurons against 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) in mice. Pre-treatment with sulpiride prevented ropinirole from enhancing striatal GSH, catalase and SOD activities and abolished the protection of dopaminergic neurons against 6-OHDA. Our findings indicate that activation of GSH, catalase and SOD mediated via DA D2 receptors may be the principal mechanism of neuroprotection by ropinirole.
Experimental diabetes is associated with susceptibility to ischemic fiber damage. In a model of ischemia previously studied in our laboratory and induced by topical endothelin-1 (ET-1), diabetic nerves had selective conduction block that progressed to motor fiber inexcitability, associated with prolonged vasoconstrictive ischemia. In this work, we report our analysis of histological consequences of ET-1 ischemia. Our hypothesis was that intense epineurial vasoconstriction would be associated with centrofascicular fiber loss, confined to diabetic nerves. By quantitating the sectorial and fascicular distribution of fibers undergoing axonal degeneration we determined the degree and geographical distribution of axonal damage induced by topical ET-1 in the sciatic nerve trunk two weeks after ischemia. Axonal damage induced by ET-1 in diabetics exceeded that of non-diabetics by a factor greater than 5. The pattern of axonal degeneration was multifocal but not centrofascicular and did not vary with fascicular area. Some small fascicles had rates of axonal degeneration that far exceeded those of large adjacent fascicles. In other instances, sectors with intense axonal degeneration were subperineurial crescentic areas, similar to those originally described by Nukada following microsphere embolization. We conclude that diabetic nerves are highly susceptible to ischemic injury, but that multifocal and not centrofascicular fiber degeneration may be encountered.

Using the standard patch clamp whole cell recording method, we assessed the pharmacological activity of four fenamate nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, meclofenamic acid, flufenamic acid, mefenamic acid and niflumic acid, on hKv2.1, a major human neuronal voltage-gated potassium channel stably expressed heterologously in Chinese hamster ovary cells. Meclofenamic acid inhibited hKv2.1 in a concentration-dependent manner whereas the other three fenamates had weaker or no effect on these channels at a concentration of 100 microM. The estimated IC50 of meclofenamic acid was 56.0 microM for hKv2.1 compared an IC50 of 155.9 microM for another human neuronal K channel (hKv1.1). Meclofenamic acid reached its maximum inhibition within 5 min of bath application and its effect was readily reversed upon wash. Kinetic analysis revealed that this drug did not alter the channel activation or deactivation time courses. Moreover, the effect of meclofenamic acid on hKv2.1 channels was not voltage-dependent. Indomethacin, another inhibitor of the cyclooxygenase that catalyses the synthesis of prostaglandin from arachidonic acid, had no effect on either hKv2.1 or hKv1.1. These results indicate that meclofenamic acid inhibits hKv2.1 more potently than hKv1.1 and it is likely that this compound acts directly on the channel proteins.
We have examined the pharmacology of kainate receptors in cultured hippocampal neurons (6-8 days in vitro (DIV)) from embryonic rats (E17). Cultured neurons were pre-treated with concanavalin A to remove kainate receptor desensitization and whole-cell voltage clamp electrophysiology employed to record inward currents in response to glutamatergic agonists and antagonists. N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazoleproprionic acid (AMPA) receptor responses were blocked using MK801 (3 microM) and the 2,3-benzodiazepine, LY300168 (GYKI53655, 50 microM), respectively. Inward currents were recorded in hippocampal neurons upon application of kainate and the 2S,4R isomer of 4-methyl glutamic acid (SYM2081) with EC50 values of 3.4 +/- 0.4 microM and 1.6 +/- 0.5 microM, respectively (n = 6 cells). The GluR5 selective agonists, LY339434 (100 microM) and (RS)-2-amino-3-(3-hydroxy-5-tert-butyl-4-isoxazolyl) propionic acid (ATPA) (100 microM), did not evoke detectable inward currents in any cell responding to kainate. LY293558 and the selective GluR5 antagonist, LY382884, had weak antagonist effects on responses evoked by either kainate or (2S,4R)-4-methyl glutamate (IC50 &gt; 300 microM). The quinoxalinedione, 2,3-dihyro-6-nitro-7-sulfamoyl-benzo(f)quinoxaline (NBQX), blocked both kainate and (2S,4R)-4-methyl glutamate-activated currents at much lower concentrations (IC50 approximately 10 microM). These results provide pharmacological evidence that ion channels comprised of GluR6 kainate receptor subunits mediate kainate receptor responses in hippocampal neurons cultured 6-8 DIV.
Since the melanocortin MC3 and melanocortin MC4 receptors are the main melanocortin receptor subtypes expressed in rat brain, we characterized the activity and affinity of nine melanocortin receptor ligands using these receptors in vitro, as well as their activity in a well-defined melanocortin-induced behavior in the rat: grooming behavior. We report here that [D-Tyr4]melanotan-II and RMI-2001 (Ac-cyclo-[Cys4, Gly5, D-Phe7, Cys10]alpha-MSH-NH2) have significantly higher affinity and potency on the rat melanocortin MC4 receptor as compared to the rat melanocortin MC3 receptor. Nle-gamma-MSH (melanocyte-stimulating hormone) was the only ligand with higher affinity and potency on the rat melanocortin MC3 receptor. The potency order of melanocortin MC4 receptor agonists, but not that of melanocortin MC3 receptor agonists, fitted with the potency of these ligands to stimulate grooming behavior, when administered intracerebroventricularly. SHU9119 (Ac-cyclo-[Nle4, Asp5, D-Nal(2)7, Lys10]alpha-MSH-(4-10)-NH2) and RMI-2005 (Ac-cyclo-[Cys4, Gly5, D-Na](2)7, Nal(2)9, Cys10]alpha-MSH-(4-10)-NH2) were able to inhibit alpha-MSH-induced melanocortin receptor activity in vitro, as well as alpha-MSH-induced grooming behavior. Melanotan-II, [Nle4-D-Phe7]alpha-MSH and RMI-2001 were also effective in inducing grooming behavior when administered intravenously. In the absence of purely selective melanocortin MC(3/4) receptor ligands, we demonstrated that careful comparison of ligand potencies in vitro with ligand potencies in vivo, could identify which melanocortin receptor subtype mediated alpha-MSH-induced grooming behavior. Furthermore, blockade of novelty-induced grooming behavior by SHU9119 demonstrated that this physiological stress response is mediated via activation of the melanocortin system.
The novel anticonvulsant SB-204269 inhibits epileptiform afterdischarges induced by high K+ in rat hippocampal slices. Its effects on voltage-gated Na+ currents, measured from cultured hippocampal neurones using whole cell patch clamp, were compared to the effects of existing anticonvulsants. SB-204269 produced no significant tonic block of Na+ currents nor any voltage-dependent and frequency-dependent block at doses 50 to 500 fold higher than its anticonvulsant EC50 of 0.2 microM. In contrast, lamotrigine, phenytoin and carbamazepine at 50 microM, blocked Na+ currents in a voltage-dependent manner. SB-204269 also had no effect on action potential discharges evoked by elevating external K+. These data suggest that direct blockade of voltage-gated channels does not contribute to the anticonvulsant properties of SB-204269 and further support the hypothesis that this compound has a novel mechanism of action.
Alterations of 'peripheral-type' benzodiazepine receptors (PTBRs) in brain are a feature of hepatic encephalopathy (HE). Although ammonia toxicity has been implicated in the disorder, recent findings suggest an accumulation of manganese in the brains of cirrhotic patients dying in hepatic coma. In this study, we examined the expression of PTBRs as well as the binding of the selective PTBR ligand 3H-PK 11195 in cultured astrocytes following chronic exposure to manganese. When astrocytes were exposed to 100 microM manganese for 1 week, a 57% increase in Bmax for 3H-PK 11195 binding was detected (P &lt; 0.01) with no change in the Kd value. However, an examination by RT-PCR of the expression of the isoquinoline-binding moiety of the PTBR complex in these cells revealed no change in PTBR mRNA levels following manganese treatment. These findings suggest that manganese up-regulates 3H-PK 11195 binding sites by a process which does not involve a change in transcription. In view of the proposed role of astrocytic PTBRs in 'neurosteroid' synthesis, manganese-induced increases of PTBRs could contribute to the pathogenesis of HE.
Retrograde amnesia observed following hippocampal lesions in humans and animals is typically temporally graded, with recent memory being impaired while remote memories remain intact, indicating that the hippocampal formation has a time-limited role in memory storage. However, this claim remains controversial because studies involving hippocampal lesions tell us nothing about the contribution of the hippocampus to memory storage if this region was present at the time of memory retrieval. We therefore used non-invasive functional brain imaging using (14C)2-deoxyglucose uptake to examine how the brain circuitry underlying long-term memory storage is reorganized over time in an intact brain. Regional metabolic activity in the brain was mapped in mice tested at different times for retention of a spatial discrimination task. Here we report that increasing the retention interval from 5 days to 25 days resulted in both decreased hippocampal metabolic activity during retention testing and a loss of correlation between hippocampal metabolic activity and memory performance. Concomitantly, a recruitment of certain cortical areas was observed. These results indicate that there is a time-dependent reorganization of the neuronal circuitry underlying long-term memory storage, in which a transitory interaction between the hippocampal formation and the neocortex would mediate the establishment of long-lived cortical memory representations.
Even though the modulation of EGF receptors by PDGF is well documented, it is not known where on the cell surface cross-talk between the two receptor systems takes place. The recent finding that both populations of receptors are concentrated in cell surface caveolae suggestes that the confinement of the two receptors to this space might facilitate their interaction. Here we show that stimulation of PDGF receptors in caveolae with PDGF causes a subpopulation of EGF receptors in the same membrane fraction to become phosphorylated on tyrosine. Coincident with tyrosine phosphorylation, the binding of EGF to its receptor markedly declines. Loss of EGF binding is partially blocked by tyrosine kinase inhibitors. Despite the close proximity of the two receptors in caveolae, we saw no evidence that EGF could stimulated PDGFR tyrosine phosphorylation. These results suggest that these two receptor systems are highly organized in caveolae.
Vestibulospinal axon collaterals in C1 and C2 were stained following injections of Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin (PHA-L) into the lateral vestibular nucleus (LVN). The distribution and geometry of collaterals within three regions of the ventral horn were determined at the light microscopic level. These processes were subsequently examined at the electron microscopic level to define the relationship between their ultrastructural characteristics and their geometry and location. All round or elliptical varicosities, whose diameters exceeded the diameter of the adjacent axon shaft by a factor of two, as measured at the light microscopic level, contained synaptic vesicles and contacted dendrites or somata. These varicosities accounted for 82% of labelled axon terminals found at the electron microscopic level. Thus, axon terminals stained with PHA-L can be identified reliably at the light microscopic level, but synaptic density will be slightly underestimated. One-hundred and thirty-eight axon terminals were classified as excitatory or inhibitory on the basis of well-established morphological criteria (e.g., vesicle shape). Placed in the context of previous physiological observations describing the excitatory or inhibitory actions of medial and lateral vestibulospinal tract (MVST and LVST) neurons, our results suggest that projections from the LVN to the ipsilateral ventral horn originate primarily from the LVST. These connections are excitatory. Ipsilateral connections via the MVST are inhibitory and are largely confined to a region near the border of laminae VII and VIII. Most axon terminals in the contralateral ventral horn were inhibitory. This result indicates that the LVN is the source of a specific subset of crossed MVST axons with inputs from the posterior semicircular canal.
The role of the region of the principal somatic sensory nucleus of the human thalamus (ventral caudal - Vc) in signaling painful sensations is unclear. We have now studied the response of cells (n = 57) in this region to both thermal and mechanical stimuli graded into the painful range during surgeries (n = 24) for treatment of movement disorders. Fifteen cells had a graded response to mechanical stimuli extending into the painful range and, thus, were classified in the wide dynamic range (WDR) category. The mean stimulus-response function of cells in the WDR class, normalized to baseline, showed a fourfold mean increase in firing rate above baseline across the mechanical series of stimuli. Seven of these cells responded to heat stimuli (WDR-H) and two responded to cold stimuli (WDR-C). Twenty-five cells were in a class (multiple receptive - MR) that showed a response to both brush and compressive stimuli, although the responses were not graded into the painful range. Three of these cells (MR-H) had a response to heat stimuli and five cells responded to cold stimuli (MR-C). Nine cells responded to brushing without a response to the compressive stimuli (low threshold - LT). Cells responsive to painful mechanical and thermal stimuli were located throughout the thalamic region where cells responded to nonpainful cutaneous stimulation. These results show that cells in the region of the human thalamic principal somatic sensory nucleus respond to mechanical and thermal stimuli extending into the painful range.
Prior studies suggest that prolactin (PRL) stimulates release of dopamine (DA) from tuberoinfundibular dopaminergic (TIDA) neurons. In the present study, the time course over which PRL exerts its effects on all three populations of neuroendocrine dopaminergic (DAergic) neuron populations [TIDA, tuberohypophyseal (THDA) and periventricular-hypophyseal (PHDA)] was determined. Ten days following ovariectomy (OVX), groups of female rats were injected either with 15 microg of ovine PRL (oPRL) or saline at 0900 h. Rats were decapitated every 30 min from 0830 h-1100 h and hourly from 1200 h-1500 h. Trunk blood was assayed for rat PRL (rPRL) and oPRL using species-specific radioimmunoassays (RIAs). The concentration of DA and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) in the median eminence (ME), as well as the anterior (AL), intermediate (IL) and neural (NL) lobes of the pituitary gland were determined by HPLC-EC. The concentration of rPRL in oPRL-treated animals, compared to saline-treated animals, was diminished by 1000 h and again between 1200 h-1500 h. DOPAC/DA ratio, an indicator of dopaminergic neuronal activity, increased spontaneously in the ME, IL, and NL during the afternoon in OVX rats. In animals injected with oPRL at 0900 h, the DOPAC/DA ratio increased in the ME, IL and NL within 1 h. Moreover, a secondary increase in the DOPAC/DA ratio in the IL and NL occurred during the afternoon in oPRL-treated rats. However, the second increase of DA turnover present in the ME of control animals never occurred in oPRL-treated animals. Furthermore, there were two increases in the concentration of DA in the AL: the first coincided with the increased turnover of DA in all three terminal areas and the second with increased DA turnover in the IL and NL. These data suggest that all three populations of hypothalamic neuroendocrine DAergic neurons are activated by PRL and that PHDA/THDA neurons have a second 'delayed' activation.
To investigate epilepsy-associated changes in the presynaptic terminal, we isolated and characterized synaptosomes from biopsies resected during surgical treatment of drug-resistant temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) patients. Our main findings are: (1) The yield of synaptosomal protein from biopsies of epilepsy patients was about 25% of that from rat brain. Synaptosomal preparations were essentially free of glial contaminations. (2) Synaptosomes from TLE patients and naive rat brain, quickly responded to K(+)-depolarization with a 70% increase in intrasynaptosomal Ca(2+) ([Ca(2+)](i)), and a 40% increase in B-50/GAP-43 phosphorylation. (3) Neocortical and hippocampal synaptosomes from TLE patients contained 20-50% of the glutamate and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) contents of rat cortical synaptosomes. (4) Although the absolute amount of glutamate and GABA released under basal conditions from neocortical synaptosomes of TLE patients was lower than from rat synaptosomes, basal release expressed as percentage of total content was higher (16.4% and 17.3%, respectively) than in rat (11.5% and 9. 9%, respectively). (5) Depolarization-induced glutamate and GABA release from neocortical synaptosomes from TLE patients was smaller than from rat synaptosomes (3.9% and 13.0% vs. 21.9% and 25.0%, respectively). (6) Analysis of breakdown of glial fibrillary acid protein (GFAP) indicates that resection time (anoxic period during the operation) is a critical parameter for the quality of the synaptosomes. We conclude that highly pure and viable synaptosomes can be isolated even from highly sclerotic human epileptic tissue. Our data show that in studies on human synaptosomes it is of critical importance to distinguish methodological (i.e., resection time) from pathology-related abnormalities.
This paper discusses mathematical approaches for modeling the propagation of the action potential and ion concentration dynamics in a general class of excitable cells and cell assemblies of concentric cylindrical geometry. Examples include myelinated and unmyelinated axons, single strands of interconnected cardiac cells and outer hair cells. A key feature in some of the cells is the presence of a small working volume such as the periaxonal space between the myelin sheath and the axon in the myelinated axon and the extracisternal space between the plasma membrane and the subsurface cisterna of the outer hair cell. Proper treatment of these cell types requires a modeling approach which can readily address these anatomical properties and the non-uniform biophysical properties of the concentric membranes and the ionic composition of the volumes between the membranes. An electrodiffusion approach is first developed in which the Nernst-Planck equation is used to characterize axial ion fluxes. It is then demonstrated that this &quot;full&quot; model can be stepwise reduced, eventually becoming equivalent to the standard cable equation formulation. This is done in a manner that permits direct comparisons between the full and simplified models by running simulations using a single parameter set. An intermediate approach where the contributions of the axial currents to ion concentration changes and the effect of varying ion concentrations on solution conductivities are ignored is derived and is found adequate in many cases. Two application examples are given: a &quot;cardiac strand&quot; model, for which the intermediate formulation is shown sufficient and a model of the myelinated axon, for which the full electrodiffusion formulation is clearly necessary. The latter finding is due to spatial inhomogeneities in the anatomy and distribution of ion channels and transporters in the myelinated axon and the restricted periaxonal space between the myelin sheath and the axon.
We have investigated the molecular determinants that mediate the differences in voltage-dependent inactivation properties between rapidly inactivating (R-type) alpha(1E) and noninactivating (L-type) alpha(1C) calcium channels. When coexpressed in human embryonic kidney cells with ancillary beta(1b) and alpha(2)-delta subunits, the wild type channels exhibit dramatically different inactivation properties; the half-inactivation potential of alpha(1E) is 45 mV more negative than that observed with alpha(1C), and during a 150-ms test depolarization, alpha(1E) undergoes 65% inactivation compared with only about 15% for alpha(1C). To define the structural determinants that govern these intrinsic differences, we have created a series of chimeric calcium channel alpha(1) subunits that combine the major structural domains of the two wild type channels, and we investigated their voltage-dependent inactivation properties. Each of the four transmembrane domains significantly affected the half-inactivation potential, with domains II and III being most critical. In particular, substitution of alpha(1C) sequence in domains II or III with that of alpha(1E) resulted in 25-mV negative shifts in half-inactivation potential. Similarly, the differences in inactivation rate were predominantly governed by transmembrane domains II and III and to some extent by domain IV. Thus, voltage-dependent inactivation of alpha(1E) channels is a complex process that involves multiple structural domains and possibly a global conformational change in the channel protein.
Neuropeptidergic systems have been studied in human tissues and fluids, which include the pituitary and lumbar cerebrospinal fluid, respectively. This paper reviews the qualitative and quantitative mass spectrometric analytical data obtained from three areas of study. Methionine enkephalin (ME) and beta-endorphin (BE) were quantified in the human pituitary by liquid secondary ion mass spectrometry (LSI MS)-tandem mass spectrometry. Corresponding stable isotope-incorporated synthetic peptide internal standards were used. Proenkephalin A and proopiomelanocortin produce ME and BE, respectively. The analysis of neuropeptides in macroadenomas demonstrated a decrease in both of those neuropeptidergic systems relative to controls. An analysis of prolactin-secreting microadenomas showed an increase in the proenkephalin A system. Mass spectrometry was also used to detect opioid peptide-containing proteins in the pituitary. Enzymes that process the precursors of proenkephalin A and tachykinin (substance P) neuropeptides were studied in human lumbar cerebrospinal fluid. Electrospray ionization mass spectrometry was used to characterize the molecular mass of each peptide product.
Bcl-xL is a Bcl-2-related gene that regulates programmed cell death in a bcl-2-independent fashion. It is expressed in tissues containing long-surviving postmitotic cells, such as neurons in adult brains. To investigate the possibility of gene therapy for transferring this anti-apoptotic gene into the neuron for the treatment of vascular occlusive or neurodegenerative diseases, we examined the effect of a replication-deficient recombinant adenovirus vector coding human Bcl-xL gene on the augmentation of the survival of primarily-cultured rat neuronal cells in vitro. Immunoblot analysis revealed that primarily-cultured neuronal cells were successfully infected and transferred with this gene by recombinant adenovirus vector with high transduction efficiency. Bcl-xL gene transfer to the primarily-cultured neurons could prevent these cells from cell death.
Monoclonal antibody Py was developed as a useful tool for the identification of large diameter neurons of the adult rat central nervous system [Woodhams et al., J. Neurosci., 9 (1989) 2170-2181]. Here, we present a detailed light-microscopic study of the distribution of Py-immunoreactivity in the developing rat spinal cord. The first cells which demonstrated Py-immunoreactivity were the motoneurons in layer IX of the gray matter at embryonic day 15. These cells, including their axons and dendrites, remained Py-immunoreactive throughout subsequent developmental stages into adulthood and were the most intensely stained cells in the adult rat spinal cord. Other cell populations which became Py-immunoreactive during development were neurons in layers III-VIII, and large-to-medium diameter neurons of the dorsal root ganglion (DRG). Transient Py-immunoreactivity was observed in the distal portions of DRG axons as well as in the ascending fibers in the dorsal funiculus. Py-immunoreactive fibers could be detected in the ventral most part of the dorsal funiculus (corticospinal tract area), even at embryonic ages prior to the arrival of corticospinal fibers. The localization and transient expression of the antigen recognized by the Py-antibody in developing rat spinal cord strongly suggests an important role of this molecule in stabilization and/or plasticity of the neuronal cytoskeleton. The results presented here form the foundation for the use of Py-immunocytochemistry to study well-defined cell populations under a range of experimental and pathological conditions.
Caspases and Bcl-xL, the mammalian homologues of the Caenorhabditis elegans (C. elegans) ced-3 and ced-9 genes, respectively, regulate apoptosis of various cells. Caspase-3 is processed into an active form (p20 or p17 and p12) during apoptosis. We investigated the relation between caspase-3 and Bcl-xL during development by examining activation of caspase-3 and apoptotic cells in Bcl-x-deficient (bcl-x(-/-)) mice at embryonic (E) day 11.5. We used a double-staining technique with a cleavage site-directed antibody against caspase-3 (anti-p20/17) and terminal-deoxytransferase-mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate nick-end labeling (TUNEL). Bcl-xL-deficiency increased both numbers of p20/17-positive and -negative apoptotic cells in dorsal root ganglia (DRG); the numbers of p20/17-positive apoptotic cells in the caudal parts of the ventral hindbrain and ventral spinal cord; and the numbers of p20/17-negative apoptotic cells in the dorsal midbrain, dorsal hindbrain, and dorsal spinal cord. Thus, Bcl-xL blocks the caspase-3-dependent apoptotic pathway in the restricted regions of the nervous system during development. Furthermore, these observations suggest that Bcl-xL protects against activation of the caspase-3-independent apoptotic pathway. Other caspases or apoptotic mechanisms may also be activated in the nervous systems of bcl-x(-/-) mice.
The ability of neurons to survive and to target axonal growth requires a coordinated series of cell extrinsic and intrinsic events. Previously, in a cellular model for neuronal differentiation, we showed that pheochromocytoma (PC12) cells expressing v-Crk, an oncogenic form of the SH2/SH3-containing c-Crk adaptor protein, potentiates axonal growth and prolongs nerve growth factor (NGF)-independent survival. In the present study, we have generated transgenic mice that express v-Crk in sensory, motor, and enteric neurons by placing v-crk under the control of the neuron-specific peripherin promoter. In contrast to wild-type (wt) mice, dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurons explanted from post-natal day 1 transgenic mice demonstrated a reduced dependence on trophic factors for both survival and axonogenesis. v-Crk also caused an increase in the number of surviving spinal motor neurons (SMN), and interestingly, upon staining of sternomastoid muscle fibers with rhodamine conjugated alpha-bungarotoxin, many muscle fibers displayed an apparent increase in volume of motor end plates, and an increase in complexity of neuromuscular junctions (NMJ). Our data suggest that v-Crk may be involved in transducing extracellular signals to regulate cytoskeletal organization, and may act on an intrinsic determinant for axonal growth in a variety of neural types including sensory and motor neurons during development.
The dynamic process of synthesis and degradation of extracellular matrix molecules, including various collagens, is important in normal physiological functions and pathological conditions. Existing models of collagen enzymatic degradation reactions are derived from bulk biochemical assays. In this study, we have imaged in real-time individual collagen I molecules and their proteolysis by Clostridium histolyticum collagenases in phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) with atomic force microscopy (AFM). We have also imaged the likely binding and unbinding of collagenase molecules to single triple-helical collagen I molecules and subsequent proteolysis of subsets of the collagen molecules. The proteolysis of collagen molecules was inhibited by reduced calcium and acidification. Results from AFM study of collagen proteolysis are consistent with SDS-PAGE biochemical assays. The real-time proteolysis of single collagen I molecules followed simple Michaelis-Menton kinetics previously derived from bulk biochemical assays. This is the first report of imaging real-time proteolysis of single macromolecules and its inhibition on a molecular scale. A strong correspondence between the kinetics of proteolysis of single collagen molecules and the kinetics of proteolysis derived from bulk biochemical assays will have a wide applicability in examining real-time enzymatic reactions and their regulation at single molecule structural level. Such real-time study of single molecule proteolysis could provide a better understanding of the interactions between proteases and target proteins as well as proteases and protease inhibitors.
Experimental autoimmune neuritis (EAN) is an inflammatory autoimmune demyelinating disease of the peripheral nervous system (PNS) and represents an animal model of Guillain-Barr syndrome (GBS), which is a major inflammatory demyelinating disease of the PNS in humans. In the present study, the dynamics of the expression of the chemokines macrophage inflammatory protein-1alpha (MIP-1alpha), MIP-2 and monocyte chemotactic protein-1 (MCP-1) were determined in the sciatic nerves of EAN rats. Additionally, the effect of neutralizing antibodies against MIP-1alpha, MIP-2 and MCP-1 on the clinical course of EAN and the chemokine expression was investigated. The maximum of MIP-1alpha positive cells in the sciatic nerves was seen on day 14 post immunization (p.i.) correlating with the development of severe clinical signs. Administration of an anti-MIP-1alpha antibody suppressed the clinical signs of EAN and inhibited inflammation and demyelination in the sciatic nerve. Peak numbers of MCP-1 positive cells in the sciatic nerves were detected on day 7 p.i. Administration of an anti-MCP-1 antibody caused a delay of onset of EAN. However, 4 of the 6 EAN rats receiving the anti-MCP-antibody showed the same degree of inflammatory cell infiltration and demyelination in the sciatic nerves as sham-treated EAN rats, whereas only 2 EAN rats had less inflammation and demyelination. The numbers of MIP-2 positive cells reached a maximum on day 21 p.i. Anti-MIP-2 antibody failed to suppress the clinical signs of EAN and the inflammation and demyelination in the sciatic nerves. Only administration of the anti-MIP-1alpha antibody resulted in a significant reduction in the number of chemokine (MIP-1alpha)-positive cells and ED1-positive macrophages in the sciatic nerves. The present results demonstrate that MIP-1alpha and MCP-1 may play a role in the immunopathogenesis of EAN, and that MIP-1alpha induced trafficking of inflammatory cells can be inhibited by immunoneutralization. Further elucidation of the regulation and coordination of MIP-1alpha and MCP-1 production may lead to new therapeutic approaches to GBS in humans.
To obtain a good animal model for polymyositis, we previously induced experimental autoimmune myositis (EAM) in Lewis rats by immunization with partially purified skeletal myosin. However, the nature of EAM-inducing antigen(s) in the partially purified myosin preparation remains unclear because it may contain several myositogenic antigens. In the present study, we further purified myosin and C-protein from partially purified myosin preparations and examined their EAM-inducing ability. It was revealed that immunization with both C-protein and purified myosin elicited EAM, which was essentially the same as that induced by partially purified myosin. However, their myositogenic ability was quite different. C-protein induced severe EAM of high histological grade and lesion frequency, whereas purified myosin induced only mild EAM. Immunohistochemical staining of C-protein-induced lesions demonstrated that muscle fiber-infiltrating cells were CD8beta+ T cells and macrophages and that CD4+ cells were mainly located in the endomysium and interfiber connective tissue. Collectively, these findings suggest that C-protein in the skeletal muscle is the major myositogenic antigen and induces inflammatory lesions mimicking those of human polymyositis.
The human muscle acetylcholine receptor (AChR) is an oligomeric membrane protein consisting of (alpha1)2,beta,delta,epsilon subunits in the adult form and (alpha 1)2,beta,gamma,delta in the fetal form. The adult AChR is the target for autoantibodies in myasthenia gravis (MG), and antibodies that block the function of fetal AChR can cross the placenta and paralyse the developing baby causing joint contractures. Monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) raised against purified AChR were characterised previously in terms of binding to five regions, three of which appeared to partially overlap, but the subunit localisation of the regions was not clearly established and they were assumed to be mainly on the immunodominant alpha subunits. We have studied binding of the mAbs to AChR subunit extracellular fragments expressed in E. coli, and to AChRs derived from TE671 cells and from fibroblast cell lines expressing human/Torpedo and Torpedo/mouse hybrid receptors. Using a combination of Western blotting and immunoprecipitation experiments, we demonstrate the subunit specificity of each mAb. The results confirm our previous observations but importantly show that only two of the regions are on the alpha subunit, the three others being on the beta, gamma and delta subunits of human AChR. Thus these mAbs should be useful in studies of AChR subunit expression in normal and diseased tissue, and to define further the binding sites of antibodies in MG patients.
Buprenorphine is a mu opioid partial agonist being developed as a treatment for opioid dependence. Buprenorphine, usually administered as a sublingual liquid, is now being developed as a sublingual tablet for clinical use. The present study compared participants' plasma concentrations after daily maintenance on three buprenorphine liquid doses (2, 4 and 8 mg) and one tablet dose (8 mg). Fourteen opioid-dependent individuals (11 males, three females) participated. Plasma samples were collected over a 24-h period after at least 7 days of maintenance on each dose. Results showed that the liquid doses produced dose-related increases in plasma concentrations. The 8-mg tablet produced mean plasma concentrations significantly lower than those of the 8-mg liquid, although there was substantial individual variability. Thus, the buprenorphine tablet dose might have to be adjusted to produce plasma concentrations equivalent to those of the liquid.
This study compared urinary 5-hydroxytryptophol (5HTOL) with breath-ethanol testing as objective ways to disclose recent drinking by outpatients attending a methadone maintenance treatment clinic. Information about quantity and frequency of alcohol use was obtained by confidential self-reports. Random screening was performed on Mondays-Fridays in connection with routine clinic visits for methadone dosing. An observed urine sample for monitoring of illicit drug use and determination of 5HTOL, expressed as a ratio to 5-hydroxyindole-3-acetic acid (5HIAA), was obtained from 202 patients (59 women and 143 men), 16 of whom refused to complete the self-report and/or do a breath-ethanol test. Patients taking disulfiram or calcium carbimide for alcohol detoxification were excluded. Among the 177 subjects remaining, 47 (26.6%) reported intake of any alcohol on the previous day (range, 10-230 g ethanol; median, 40). Only four of those could be identified by a positive breath-test, while 17 showed a urinary 5HTOL/5HIAA ratio above the cutoff limit. Their alcohol consumption (median, 60 g) was significantly higher compared with those showing ratios within the reference interval (median, 35 g). The sensitivity of 5HTOL/5HIAA testing for detecting self-reported drinking in excess of 50 g ethanol was 77%. An additional nine patients who claimed abstinence still showed abnormal 5HTOL/5HIAA ratios, and so did three of the patients who refused to do a breath-ethanol test and/or complete the self-report. Altogether, 59 of 190 methadone-maintained patients (31.1%) had been drinking any alcohol on the previous day (i.e. Sunday-Thursday) according to self-report and/or urinalysis data, 29 (49.2%) of whom were identified by the urinary 5HTOL/5HIAA ratio and only four (6.8%) by utilizing breathalyzer.
3-Phenyltropane analogues of cocaine are useful neurobiologic tools for examining mechanisms of neurotransmitter transporters and psychostimulant drugs. They are also potential substitute medications for psychostimulant abuse. In this study, 18 3-phenyltropane analogues were characterized in uptake and binding studies at dopamine (DAT), norepinephrine (NET) and serotonin (SERT) transporters from the rat, and in binding at DAT in rat, rhesus monkey, and human brain tissue. In rat brain tissue, potency in inhibiting uptake generally correlated with the potency in inhibiting binding at all three transporters suggesting that none of these compounds have antagonist properties. At the DAT, there was a significant correlation of inhibitory potencies between the rat and monkey, the monkey and human, and the rat and human transporters although some compounds showed some species difference. These findings suggest that with regard to the 3-phenyltropane series, there is generally little pharmacologic difference between DATs from the three species examined, although binding data from rat may not be a perfect predictor of uptake inhibition in human.
Aging is accompanied by declined sensory perception, paralleled by widespread dystrophic and degenerative changes in both central and peripheral sensory pathways. Several lines of evidence indicate that neurotrophic interactions are of importance for a maintained plasticity in the adult and aging nervous system, and that changes in the expression of neurotrophins and/or their receptors may underpin senile neurodegeneration. We have here examined the expression of neurotrophin receptor (p75NTR, trkA, trkB, and trkC) mRNA and protein in intact and axotomized primary sensory neurons of young adult (3 months) and aged (30 months) rats. To examine possible differences among primary sensory neuron populations, we have studied trigeminal ganglia (TG) as well as cervical and lumbar dorsal root ganglia (DRG). In intact aged rats, a decrease in trk (A/B/C) mRNA labeling densities and protein-like immunoreactivities was observed. The decrease was most pronounced in lumbar DRG. In contrast, a small, not statistically significant, increase of p75NTR expression was observed in aged DRG neuron profiles. After axotomy, a down-regulation of mRNA and protein levels was observed for all neurotrophin receptors (p75NTR, trkA, trkB and trkC) in both young adult and aged rats. Consistent with the higher expression levels of neurotrophin receptors in unlesioned young adult primary sensory neurons, the relative effect of axotomy was more pronounced in the young adult than aged rats. Although a decrease in mean cell profile cross-sectional areas was found during aging and after axotomy, the characteristic distribution of neurotrophin receptor expression in different populations of NRG neurons was conserved. The present findings suggest an attenuation of neurotrophic signaling in primary sensory neurons with advancing age and that the expression of p75NTR and trks is regulated differently during aging. A similar dissociation of p75NTR and trk regulation has previously been reported in other neuronal systems during aging, suggesting that there may be a common underlying mechanism. Decreased access to ligands, disturbed axon function and systemic changes in androgen/estrogen levels are discussed as inducing and/or contributing factors.
The effect of the GTP analogue guanylyl-5'-imidodiphosphate (Gpp[NH]p) on [3H]forskolin binding was studied in rat brain using autoradiography. In the striatum the presence of 100 microM Gpp[NH]p produced a 40% increase in binding, whereas a decrease of about 30% was observed with low Gpp[NH]p concentrations (0.1 microM). In the molecular layer of the cerebellum all concentrations of Gpp[NH]p decreased [3H]forskolin binding. The decrease in binding disappeared in both striatum and the molecular layer of cerebellum in sections pretreated with 100 microM N-ethylmaleimide (NEM) for 10 min. NEM pretreatment did not significantly affect the stimulation of [3H]forskolin binding by micromolar concentrations of Gpp[NH]p in the striatum, but reversed the decrease observed in the molecular layer of the cerebellum, to an increase. Based on these data we suggest that the effects of Gpp[NH]p on [3H]forskolin binding may involve both Gs and Gi, where stimulation produces an increase and decrease in binding, respectively. The regional effects of Gpp[NH]p may reflect differences in the responsiveness of adenylate cyclase to Gs- and Gi-mediated effects.
The whole cell configuration of the patch clamp technique was used to study the effects of chlorpromazine (CPZ), a widely used antipsychotic drug, on miniature GABAA-mediated synaptic currents (mIPSCs) in hippocampal cells in culture. CPZ (10-30 microM) induced a clear dose-dependent increase of mIPSCs frequency that was associated with a decrease in amplitude and with an acceleration of their decay kinetics. When applied in a calcium-free medium, CPZ was less effective in enhancing mIPSCs frequency, suggesting that this effect was partially calcium dependent. While a low (10 microM) CPZ concentration induced a 2-fold increase in the total charge transfer a higher (30 microM) dose of this drug produced no changes, indicating that the presynaptic effect was counterbalanced by the postsynaptic one.

An investigation of Bunina bodies is important when studying the pathoetiology and pathomechanisms involved in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). It may serve as a clue essential for the study of the pathogenesis of Guamanian amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS-G), and it may provide a means of answering the question of whether ALS-G is the same disease as classical ALS or a different entity. In ALS-G, however, no precise histochemical, immunohistochemical, or detailed ultrastructural examination has been published to date. To elucidate the pathological differences/similarities of Bunina bodies between classical ALS and ALS-G, we performed histochemical, immunohistochemical, topographic and ultrastructural examinations. Histochemically, hematoxylin and eosin, Masson's trichrome, methylgreen-pyronin, phosphotungstic acid-hematoxylin, Klver-Barrera, Bodian and periodic acid-Schiff staining were utilized. Immunohistochemical examination was performed using antibodies for cystatin C, ubiquitin, Tau-2, Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase, phosphorylated neurofilament and glial fibrillary acidic protein. Histochemical findings were consistent with those previously described for classical ALS. The immunohistochemical study showed that in ALS-G Bunina bodies were intensely labeled by an anti-cystatin C antibody. Topographic examination demonstrated that Bunina bodies were distributed in the spinal anterior horns and Clarke's column in the spinal cord. Ultrastructurally, Bunina bodies were composed of electron-dense amorphous/ granular material accompanied by vesicular structures and neurofilaments. The results of the present study have revealed that the pathological features of Bunina bodies in ALS-G are identical to those seen in classical ALS. These findings strongly suggest that a similar degenerative process occurs in the spinal anterior horn cells in both ALS-G and classical ALS.
Parents' reports on 1844 five to seven year olds from the general population were used to provide a detailed update about prevalence and correlates of sleep disturbances in children. Five different sleep disturbances were focused on: difficulty falling asleep, reported in 5.6% of the children; night waking in 15.5%; snoring in 7.7%; nightmares in 3.1%, and bedwetting in 5.3% of the children. Coexisting sleep disturbances were frequent in children with difficulties falling asleep, night waking and nightmares, but bedwetting usually emerged as a singular sleep disturbance. Nightmares were associated with serious health problems or handicaps, sleep problems in conjunction with life events, and female gender. Snoring as well as bedwetting were associated with reports of &quot;very active&quot; children. In 6.7% of the total sample, parents had previously consulted the healthcare services for a sleep problem in their child. These children had reports of colic during infancy, eczema, serious health problems or handicaps, current snoring and current nightmares. Only 1.1% (n = 21) of the children were said to have a present need to remedy sleep problems. The reports on these children included coexisting sleep disturbances, previous consultations for sleeping problems, parents' perceptions of &quot;very active&quot; children, diagnoses of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, and major life events which had triggered sleep problems. In conclusion, although sleep disturbances are common in 5-7-y-old children, parents seldom express a need to remedy sleep problems in their children of this age.
The paper describes, with focus on the first half of the century, the roles played by study of the sympathoadrenal system for developing modern neurobiology. Adrenaline isolated from extracts of adrenal medulla was the first intercellular messenger to be chemically identified and synthesized. Similarities between effects of adrenaline and sympathetic nerve stimulation led to the first concrete proposal of chemical neurotransmission. That effluent from a sympathetically or parasympathetically stimulated frog heart induced acceleration or slowing of an unstimulated recipient heart was the first conclusive proof of chemical neurotransmission. Acetylcholine (in parasympathetic or somatomotor) and noradrenaline (in sympathetic nerves) are the first identified mammalian neurotransmitters. The existence of a'receptive substance for adrenaline' represents the first proposal that target cells recognize and react to the released transmitter. Deviations for the '-ergic concept, in which sympathetic and parasympathetic nerves are termed 'adrenergic' and 'cholinergic', led to discovery of 'non-adrenergic, non-cholinergic' nerves and a range of other transmitters. That some effects of e.g. sympathetic nerve stimulation are not blocked by any noradrenaline antagonist led to the recognition that some nerves utilize more than one transmitter. Noradrenaline in sympathetic nerves was the first neurotransmitter to be visualized in the light microscope. catecholamines in adrenal medulla and sympathetic nerves were the first messengers to be shown to be stored in vesicles.
We describe the dynamics and the nature of the presymptomatic phase of multiple sclerosis (MS) in a patient for whom MR abnormalities suggestive of MS were found before the development of clinical symptoms. The patient was monitored with serial monthly MR imaging of the brain and spinal cord for 5 months. Disease activity during the presymptomatic phase showed imaging characteristics comparable to that of early relapsing-remitting MS in terms of enhancing lesions, duration of enhancement, and new lesions depicted by T2-weighted imaging. Measurements derived from magnetization transfer imaging suggested that the amount and degree of tissue destruction within and outside the lesions revealed by T2-weighted imaging were mild. This, together with the fact that only one of the 43 new lesions that developed during the presymptomatic phase was located in a neurologically eloquent area, may be the reason why, for a relatively long period, the patient had no clinical manifestations of MS despite the marked MR findings of disease activity.
Wistar rats were studied during forced and voluntary alcohol consumption, and continuous or periodic access to ethanol (6%) v/v with different availability of fluids. Absolute volume of alcohol consumption was not different between sexes in any condition; however, females consumed significantly more alcohol than males on a g/kg basis in all conditions. These differences were significantly more extensive during continuous free-choice to alcohol and water than during forced alcohol consumption. Females showed greater alcohol preference than males only during continuous free-choice to alcohol and water. During periodic free-choice to alcohol and water condition, alcohol consumption was distributed during more hours throughout the day in females than males. During periodic free-choice to alcohol and to an isocaloric sweetened solution (ISS), intakes of ISS were very high compared to regular intakes of daily water; nevertheless, alcohol consumption was maintained to similar levels observed in continuous free-choice to alcohol and water and represented almost 50% of regular daily consumes of water in males and females. Free-choice for alcohol and ISS modified the usual pattern of alcohol consumption during the daily light-dark cycle in males and females and reduced the time devoted to drinking alcohol compared to other conditions, in which similar intakes were observed. Results show that the extent of the higher alcohol consumption in females than males and the changes in patterns of alcohol intake were dependent on the nature of the ingestion schedule.



A missense mutation in the gene coding for the G-protein-activated inwardly rectifying potassium (GIRK) channel, GIRK2, is responsible for apoptosis in the external germinal layer (EGL) of the cerebellum and a nonapoptotic death of midbrain dopaminergic neurons in the weaver (wv) mouse. Failure of axonogenesis and migration are considered to be the primary consequences of GIRK2 channel malfunction in the cerebellum. We investigated whether a disruption of the cell cycle precedes the failure of migration and axonogenesis and leads to massive apoptosis. To this end, immunohistochemistry and immunoblotting for PCNA, Cdk4, cyclin D, cyclin A, and the Cdk inhibitor p27/kip1, as well as in situ end-labeling for apoptotic DNA fragmentation, were applied to cerebella of P7-P21+/+, wv/+, and wv/wv mice. In +/+ and wv/+ mice, the expression of cell cycle proteins was limited to the outer, premigratory zone of the EGL. Antibodies to p27, a marker of cell differentiation, gave a reverse staining pattern. Due to migration delay, patches of p27-positive cells persisted in the outer EGL in P21 wv/+ mice. On the contrary, marked cell cycle up-regulation and absence of p27 occurred throughout the EGL at all ages in wv/wv mice, indicating an inability to switch off the cell cycle. Mitotic index evaluation showed that cell cycle activation was unrelated to proliferative events. Cell cycle proteins were not expressed in the substantia nigra, suggesting that nonapoptotic death of mature dopaminergic neurons is not preceded by abortive cell cycle re-entry. Our data show that abnormalities of the cell cycle in wv/wv cerebellum represent a major and early consequence of GIRK2 channel malfunction and may strongly influence the susceptibility of EGL cells to apoptosis. These observations may help in understanding the pathogenesis of human neurological channelopathies.
This study tested the hypothesis that systemic stressors in rats activate glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1)-immunoreactive neurons in the caudal brain stem, including those that project to the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN). Neural tracer was microinjected into the PVN to retrogradely label brain stem neurons. Seven to ten days later, rats were injected with lithium chloride (LiCl; 50 mg/kg). Additional non-tracer-injected rats were treated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS; 100 microgram/kg) or CCK (100 microgram/kg) or were allowed to consume a very large meal. Rats were killed 90-120 min after drug treatment or 30 min after the meal. Brains were processed for immunocytochemical localization of c-Fos (a marker of neuronal activation), GLP-1, and, when appropriate, neural tracer. The majority of GLP-1 neurons were activated to express c-Fos after LiCl, LPS, or CCK treatment, including (in LiCl-treated rats) those projecting to the PVN. In contrast, GLP-1 neurons rarely expressed c-Fos after ingestion of a large meal, despite prominent activation of other brain stem neurons. These results suggest that GLP-1 neurons are uniquely activated in situations of interoceptive stress, and may participate in adaptive hypothalamic stress responses.
We have investigated the changes in muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) from the tibial nerve during brief periods of microgravity (microG) for approximately 20 s produced by parabolic flight. MSNA was recorded microneurographically from 13 quietly seated human subjects with their knee joints extended in a jet aircraft simultaneously with the electrocardiogram, the blood pressure wave (measured with a Finapres), the respiration curve, and the thoracic fluid volume (measured by impedance plethysmography). During quiet and seated parabolic flight, MSNA was activated in hypergravity and was suppressed in microG phasically. At the entry to hypergravity at 2 G just before microG, the thoracic fluid volume was reduced by 3.2 +/- 3%, and the arterial blood pressure was lowered transiently and then gradually elevated from 89.5 +/- 1.7 to 100.2 +/- 1.7 mmHg, which caused the enhancement of MSNA by 91.4 +/- 14.2%. At the entry to microG, the thoracic fluid volume was increased by 3.4%, which lowered the mean blood pressure to 77.9 +/- 2.3 mmHg and suppressed the MSNA by 17.2%. However, this suppression lasted only approximately 10 s, followed by an enhancement of MSNA that continued for several seconds. We conclude that MSNA is suppressed and then enhanced during microG produced by parabolic flight. These changes in MSNA are in response not only to intrathoracic fluid volume changes but also to arterial blood pressure changes, both of which are caused by body fluid shifts induced by parabolic flight, and these changes are quite phasic and transient.
Fevers are known to be suppressed near term in the mother, but the mechanism responsible for this phenomenon is not understood. We tested the hypothesis that the suppression of fever at term is a result of enhanced vasopressin-induced antipyresis. Effects of intracerebroventricular prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) were examined in rats at gestational days 16-17 and 19-20 (near term) and days 1-2 postpartum. PGE(2) (50 ng) elevated body and interscapular brown adipose tissue (iBAT) temperatures and increased sympathetic nerve activity to the iBAT. PGE(2)-induced changes in iBAT temperature and nerve activity, as well as in rectal temperature, were reduced or eliminated near term, and responses were recovered in the postpartum period. Blood pressure and heart rate changes induced by central PGE(2) were also decreased at near term. Coinfusion of Manning compound, a V(1) vasopressin receptor antagonist, with PGE(2) throughout the peripartum period did not reverse the suppressed iBAT temperature and nerve activity or body temperature responses to PGE(2). Microdialysis experiments revealed unchanged terminal release of vasopressin in the ventral septal area after PGE(2) infusion in either pregnant or parturient rats. These results suggest that fever reduction at near term is not associated with enhanced vasopressin antipyresis, but may be a result of reduced sympathetic tone and in particular a reduced sympathetic drive to the iBAT. This finding may reflect a generalized reduction in autonomic output around the time of parturition.

A composite index incorporating the frequency and structure (target, type of defence, etc.) of play fighting was used to compare the complexity of such play in 13 species of muroid rodents whose behaviour has been previously described. A phylogenetic comparison of the distribution of the complexity of play fighting revealed that relatedness did not predict complexity. The most likely pattern for the ancestral rodent was moderate levels of complexity, from which increases or decreases in complexity then appeared to have evolved independently, at the level of subfamily and genus. Given that phylogeny did not predict the distribution of the pattern of play fighting, an alternative hypothesis was tested. That is, that instead, the distribution was produced by species differences in sociality, as reflected by the degrees of male-female association amongst adults. The analysis revealed that play complexity was unrelated to species differences in sociality, with both highly social and relatively asocial species being equally likely to have high or low levels of play complexity. The implications of these results for the evolution of mammalian play are considered. Copyright 1999 The Association for the Study of Animal Behaviour.
Jumping spiders Portia labiata were tested in the laboratory on three different kinds of detours. In one, both routes led to the lure. In the other variants, one of the routes had a gap, making that route impassable. When tested with only one complete route, Portia chose this route after visually inspecting both routes. An analysis of scanning showed that, at the beginning of the scanning routine, the spiders scanned both the complete and the incomplete route but that, by the end of the scanning routine, they predominantly scanned only the complete route. Two rules seemed to govern their scanning: (1) they would continue turning in one direction when scanning away from the lure along horizontal features of the detour route; and (2) when the end of the horizontal feature being scanned was reached, they would change direction and turn back towards the lure. These rules 'channelled' the spiders' scanning on to the complete route, and they then overwhelmingly chose to head towards the route they had fixated most while scanning. Copyright 1999 The Association for the Study of Animal Behaviour.
Monoclonal antibodies reactive with the HNK-1 epitope of myelin-associated glycoprotein (MAG) and the sulphate-3-glucuronyl paragloboside (SGPG)-like glycolipids are often found in the serum of patients with IgM paraprotein-associated demyelinating neuropathy. The presence of such antibodies in patients with chronic polyneuropathy has recently been associated with evidence of active cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection by the polymerase chain reaction. We wished to test these findings and examined sera from patients with MAG-reactive or MAG-nonreactive paraproteinemic neuropathy and patients with paraproteinemia only for the presence of CMV DNA and anti-CMV antibodies. CMV DNA was not detected in sera from any patient group. Furthermore, anti-CMV antibody prevalence was normal and similar in all 3 groups. We therefore report no evidence of an association between CMV infection and anti-MAG/SGPG antibodies associated with paraproteinemic peripheral neuropathy.
There is a renewal of interest in surgical approaches including lesions and deep brain stimulation directed at motor subcorticofrontal loops. Bilateral lesioning presents a far greater risk of adverse effects, especially cognitive impairment. Furthermore, the main advantages of the stimulation procedure over lesioning are adaptability and reversibility of effects. The aim of this study was to assess the influence of bilateral stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus or internal globus pallidus on memory and executive functions in Parkinson's disease. Sixty-two patients were assessed before and after 3 to 6 months of chronic bilateral stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus (n = 49) or internal globus pallidus (n = 13). The neuropsychological tests used were the Mattis Dementia Rating Scale, the Grober and Buschke Verbal Learning Test, the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test, category and literal fluency, graphic and motor series, the Stroop Test, and the Trail Making Test. Mood was evaluated by the Beck Depression Inventory. Only 4 of 25 cognitive variables were affected by deep brain stimulation. Under stimulation, performance improved for Parts A and B of the Trail Making Test, but there was a deterioration in literal and total lexical fluency. There was also a mild but significant improvement in mood. It may therefore be concluded that stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus or internal globus pallidus does not change the overall cognitive performance in Parkinson's disease and does not greatly affect the functioning of subcorticofrontal loops involved in cognition in humans. This relative absence of cognitive impairment in bilateral deep brain stimulation is likely because of the accurate positioning of the electrodes, allowing the effects of stimulation to be confined to sensorimotor circuits.
The dynamic regulation of neurotransmitters and their receptors is an important component of the process of coping and stress adaptation. Among the central neurochemical systems, CRF and the renin-angiotensin may represent major modulatory systems involved in the adaptation of an organism to chronic stress, balancing the response demands that the stressor places on the central nervous system with the potentially detrimental effects that a sustained stress response may produce. As such, the study of these two systems with respect to their neurotransmitters and receptors will allow us to achieve a better perspective on the mechanisms responsible for effective short-term coping with stress as well as long-term adaptation and restoration in response to chronic or repeated stress. It will then be possible to verify the level of activation of different components of the central pathways involved in the mediation of stress responses in rat strains which develop hypertension following chronic exposure to stress. The primary objective of the present paper is to review some facts on the contribution of the central renin-angiotensin system on the regulatory mechanisms involved in the mediation of physiological responses to stress and on the involvement of these neurons in the CNS adaptation in rat strains that are developing hypertension when chronically exposed to stress. Neurons that are expressing angiotensin-receptors may be important in the short-term adaptation to stress by potentiating sympathoadrenal and/or hypophyseo-pituitary-adrenal responses. These same neurons may also participate in long-term stress-adaptation by altering gene expression of their angiotensin receptors. Moreover, these processes represent potential points of dysregulation in the case of extreme, repeated or prolonged stress, and thus in the development of stress-related pathological states such as hypertension and heart diseases.



Cysteamine was used as a tool aimed at investigating the role of central somatostatin (SS-14) and was shown to modulate learning in a task-dependent manner. However, direct arguments have not yet been provided to support the hypothesis that impairments and facilitation of learning produced by cysteamine are both mediated by the hippocampus. Mice were given daily intrahippocampal injections of artificial cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) or cysteamine at doses of either 2.5 microg/0.2 microl or 25 microg/0.2 microl 1 h prior to each learning session of a bar-pressing task, for which the acquisition was previously shown to be improved by systemic injections. The results showed that, with respect to CSF, the mice injected with cysteamine learned the bar pressing task faster whereas no evidence of changes in locomotor activity was provided. Moreover, the results showed that retention was specifically increased in the two groups injected with cysteamine. It is argued that the action of cysteamine on the hippocampus is sufficient to modulate specifically learning-memory processes in a task-dependent manner. In conclusion, the blockade of some hippocampal information processing function by cysteamine is discussed to understand the bidirectional effects of drugs on learning and memory.
In this study we examine whether exposure to differential housing after weaning would counteract the effects of postnatal handling (H) or nonhandling (NH) treatment by affecting learning and memory processes in young rats. In addition, we seek to determine if experience in enriched environment would alter hippocampal nerve growth factor (NGF) levels which is one of the factors known to be involved in the regulation of the survival and differentiation of developing basal forebrain neurones. Rats were either exposed to handling treatment, or left undisturbed starting day 1 after birth through day 21. After weaning on day 22, we exposed half of the H rats and half of the NH rats to environmental enrichment for 60 days. The other respective half of the rats was housed in isolated environmental condition (IC). Behavioural measures were taken in open field test, and spatial water maze test. Exposure to enriched environment following postnatal handling and nonhandling increased hippocampal NGF levels, and improved cognitive function in the both groups, with NH rats being more responsive to the effects of enrichment. Our results suggest that environmental enrichment has the potential to prevent or reduce the cognitive and neurochemical deficits in the adult animals associated with nonhandling.
In hamsters, progesterone (P) in the hypothalamus and ventral tegmental area (VTA) is necessary for receptivity; in rats, hypothalamic P induces receptivity and midbrain P further enhances it. How P exerts its effects in the VTA on lordosis is of interest because few estrogen-induced P receptors (PRs) have been identified there. Sexual receptivity of rats and hamsters is enhanced when P's actions in the VTA are restricted to the membrane and when the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)A agonist, muscimol, is infused into the VTA, but attenuated with infusions of the GABA(A) antagonist, bicuculline. The dopamine (DA) agonist. SKF38393, rapidly enhances receptivity when infused intravenously; this effect can be blocked by both DA receptor (DR) and PR antagonists. This study investigated the importance of PRs, glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD), the enzyme responsible for GABA production, GABA(A) receptors (GBRs), and DRs in the VTA of cycling rats and hamsters for the expression of lordosis. Proestrous and diestrous animals implanted with bilateral VTA cannulae were pre-tested for receptivity, infused with either an antagonist (RU38486 (20 microg), bicuculline (100 ng), SCH23390 (100 ng)), anti-sense oligonucleotide (against PR (250 ng), GAD (500 ng), D1 (500 ng), D5 (250 ng)), or control infusions to each cannulae and re-tested. Vehicle and scrambled oligonucleotides were infused as controls and elicited similar effects. Antagonists of GBRs and DRs significantly reduced lordosis on post-tests compared to the PR antagonist and control conditions in rats and hamsters. Lordosis was significantly reduced, compared to controls, only by anti-sense oligonucleotides for GAD and D1- and D5-DR subtypes. These data suggest that in the VTA GABAergic and dopaminergic neurons may be more important in the mediation of sexual receptivity than neurons containing intracellular PRs.
Prior to the twentieth century, theories of knowledge were inherently perceptual. Since then, developments in logic, statistics, and programming languages have inspired amodal theories that rest on principles fundamentally different from those underlying perception. In addition, perceptual approaches have become widely viewed as untenable because they are assumed to implement recording systems, not conceptual systems. A perceptual theory of knowledge is developed here in the context of current cognitive science and neuroscience. During perceptual experience, association areas in the brain capture bottom-up patterns of activation in sensory-motor areas. Later, in a top-down manner, association areas partially reactivate sensory-motor areas to implement perceptual symbols. The storage and reactivation of perceptual symbols operates at the level of perceptual components--not at the level of holistic perceptual experiences. Through the use of selective attention, schematic representations of perceptual components are extracted from experience and stored in memory (e.g., individual memories of green, purr, hot). As memories of the same component become organized around a common frame, they implement a simulator that produces limitless simulations of the component (e.g., simulations of purr). Not only do such simulators develop for aspects of sensory experience, they also develop for aspects of proprioception (e.g., lift, run) and introspection (e.g., compare, memory, happy, hungry). Once established, these simulators implement a basic conceptual system that represents types, supports categorization, and produces categorical inferences. These simulators further support productivity, propositions, and abstract concepts, thereby implementing a fully functional conceptual system. Productivity results from integrating simulators combinatorially and recursively to produce complex simulations. Propositions result from binding simulators to perceived individuals to represent type-token relations. Abstract concepts are grounded in complex simulations of combined physical and introspective events. Thus, a perceptual theory of knowledge can implement a fully functional conceptual system while avoiding problems associated with amodal symbol systems. Implications for cognition, neuroscience, evolution, development, and artificial intelligence are explored.
The effects of lateral ventricular injections of succinyl-[Asp6, N-Me-Phe8]-substance P (SENK; 25, 100, 200 ng), a tachykinin NK3 receptor agonist, and [Sar9, Met(O2)11]-substance P (Sar Met; 100, 200 ng), an NK1 receptor agonist, on normal (gastric fistula closed) and sham drinking (gastric fistula open) of hypertonic NaCl by sodium-deficient rats were compared. Intraventricular injections of Sar Met had no effect on NaCl intake in either condition. Injections of 100 ng and 200 ng SENK caused an equal suppression of NaCl intake in the 2 fistula conditions. The latency to drink was not affected, but the initial lick rate was significantly lower and decayed more rapidly after 100 ng SENK than after saline or 25 ng SENK. The results show that (a) the tachykinin subtypes are not equally involved in the control of need-induced salt intake; (b) negative feedback from the stomach and distal gastrointestinal tract is not required for intraventricular injections of SENK to suppress sodium appetite; (c) the activation of NK3 receptors decreases the oral excitatory influence of hypertonic NaCl in sodium-deficient rats.
A variety of sensory stimuli (e.g., visual, auditory, and thermal) are known to induce rapid eye movement (REM) sleep in mammals. Studies have examined the induction of REM sleep in albino rats by light-to-dark transitions, a phenomenon referred to as REM sleep triggering. Recent research has demonstrated that aspiration lesions of the superior colliculus (SC) and pretectal area attenuated REM sleep triggering. To define more specifically the area or areas involved in mediating REM sleep responses to changes in illumination, fiber-sparing neurotoxic lesions were made to the pretectum (PT) or the SC. Lesions of the PT attenuated REM sleep triggering, whereas lesions of the SC did not. Thus, the role of the PT may be expanded to include the regulation of REM sleep in response to photic stimulation in albino rats. These findings provide a paradigm in which to study mechanisms of REM sleep generation and the effects of light on behavioral state.
Rats with bilateral ibotenic acid lesions centered on the perirhinal cortex and sham-operated controls were tested in 2 versions of a spatially guided radial arm maze task. Lesioned rats made significantly more errors and required more sessions to reach criterion relative to controls in the standard radial maze task. When they were tested in a delayed nonmatch to sample version of this task, lesioned rats made more errors during the predelay phase and at both the 30-s and 10-min delays of the postdelay phase. These findings provide further support for the hypothesis that the role of the perirhinal cortex in object recognition memory may include reference to some spatial aspect of the environment.

The sympathoneural neurotransmitter norepinephrine (NE) is deaminated to 3,4-dihydroxymandelaldehyde (DHMAL) and subsequently converted to either 3,4-dihydroxymandelic acid (DHMA) or 3,4-dihydroxyphenylglycol (DHPG). In this study, we investigated the relative importance of aldose reductase versus aldehyde reductase in the formation of DHPG from DHMAL. The in vitro incubation of NE with aldose reductase in the presence of monoamine oxidase (MAO) resulted in the formation of DHPG, which was confirmed by mass spectrometry. Although aldehyde reductase also generated DHPG, its activity was much lower than that of aldose reductase. With northern blotting, the expression of both aldose reductase and aldehyde reductase was detected in rat superior cervical ganglia. However, with western blotting, only aldose reductase was immunologically detectable. Treatment of rats with aldose reductase inhibitors for 3 days increased the plasma level of DHMA. There was no correlation between the selectivity of inhibitors and effects on NE metabolite levels. A significant decrease in DHPG, however, was obtained only with an extremely high dose (9 mg/kg/day) of the nonselective inhibitor AL 1576. The present study confirmed that aldose reductase generates DHPG from NE in the presence of MAO. In rat sympathetic neurons, aldose reductase appears to be more important than aldehyde reductase for the formation of DHPG. However, when aldose reductase is inhibited, it appears that aldehyde reductase can compensate for the conversion of DHMAL to DHPG, indicating redundancy in the reduction pathway.


