Memories of conversations are composed of what was said (speech content) and information about the speaker's voice (speaker identity). In the current study, we examined whether patients with schizophrenia would show difficulties integrating speech content and speaker identity in memory, as measured in a gender-identity (male/female) recognition task. Forty-one patients and a comparison group of 20 healthy controls took part in the study. In contrast to controls, patients demonstrated greater impairments in memory for female, but not male, voices. These results are consistent with studies of speech perception that show that female voices have more complex &quot;vocal&quot; characteristics and require greater integration compared with male voices, and with the context memory hypothesis of schizophrenia which suggests that memory binding impairments may result in degraded or incomplete representations of memory traces as the task requirements become increasing complex.
In the past decade deep brain stimulation (DBS)-the application of electrical stimulation to specific target structures via implanted depth electrodes-has become the standard treatment for medically refractory Parkinson's disease and essential tremor. These diseases are characterized by pathological synchronized neuronal activity in particular brain areas. We present an external trial DBS device capable of administering effectively desynchronizing stimulation techniques developed with methods from nonlinear dynamics and statistical physics according to a model-based approach. These techniques exploit either stochastic phase resetting principles or complex delayed-feedback mechanisms. We explain how these methods are implemented into a safe and user-friendly device.
The concentrations of soluble beta-amyloid (Abeta) oligomers paralleled with the extent of synaptic loss and severity of cognitive impairment in Alzheimer patients. However, the neurotoxicity of the naturally generated Abeta species remains unknown. This study was designed to examine the effects of naturally generated Abeta oligomers, secreted from amyloid precursor protein-expressing cells, on the homeostasis and viability of primary hippocampal neurons. Our results showed that primary hippocampal neurons incubated with condition media containing cell-secreted soluble Abeta had higher levels of heat-shock protein (HSP)27, HSP60 and HSP70, and lower levels of HSP32 than those of the control neurons. The cell-secreted soluble Abeta caused mitochondria dysfunction in hippocampal neurons as demonstrated by depolarized membrane potential and decreased cytochrome c oxidase activity and ATP levels. The levels of pro-apoptotic proteins, Bid, Bax and cytochrome C, were elevated; whereas anti-apoptotic Bcl-2 protein was reduced in the soluble Abeta-cultured neurons. Apoptosis was also evident in these soluble Abeta-cultured neurons. These results indicate that naturally secreted Abeta induces neuronal injury/death by activating an apoptotic pathway involving impaired mitochondria function and cellular homeostasis.
Bipolar disorder with childhood attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a subphenotype characterized by earlier age of onset, more frequent mood episodes, more suicide attempts, and more interpersonal violence than pure bipolar patients. The aim of this study was to test the biological validity of using childhood ADHD to subgroup bipolar disorder. The monoamine metabolites, homovanillinic acid (HVA), 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) and 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol (MHPG) were determined in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of 53 euthymic patients with bipolar disorder type 1, with (N = 17) and without (N = 36) a history of childhood ADHD. In addition to structured clinical interviews, childhood ADHD was assessed by a next of kin using the Autism-Tics, ADHD and other comorbidities questionnaire (A-TAC), and by patients themselves using the Wender Utah rating scale (WURS-25). Current ADHD symptoms were assessed by the Brown attention-deficit disorder scale (Brown ADD). Bipolar patients with childhood ADHD had significantly lower CSF concentration (mean +/- SD nmol/l) of HVA (89.0 +/- 32.5 vs. 115.8 +/- 47.1, P = 0.039) and 5-HIAA (88.7 +/- 38.5 vs. 116 +/- 47.9, P = 0.021) than pure bipolar patients. CSF MHPG did not differ between the groups. The WURS-25 score correlated negatively with both HVA (r = -0.27, P = 0.048) and 5-HIAA (r = -0.30, P = 0.027). Likewise, the Brown ADD total score correlated negatively with both HVA (r = -0.34, P = 0.013) and 5-HIAA (r = -0.35, P = 0.011). These findings indicate different monoaminergic function in patients with and without childhood ADHD in bipolar disorder type 1. This lends biological support to the notion that those with childhood ADHD represent a valid subphenotype of bipolar disorder.
The objective of our study was to determine granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) activity in the brain following GM-CSF induction. We injected recombinant mouse GM-CSF into the brains of 8-month-old C57BL6 mice via intracerebroventricular injections and studied the activities of microglia, astrocytes, and neurons. We also sought to determine whether an anti-GM-CSF antibody could suppress endogenous microglial activity in the C57BL6 mice and could also suppress microglial activity induced by the recombinant mouse GM-CSF in another group of C57BL6 mice. Using quantitative real-time RT-PCR, we assessed microglial, astrocytic, and neuronal activity by measuring mRNA expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines, GFAP, and the neuronal marker NeuN in the cerebral cortex tissues from C57BL6 mice. We performed immunoblotting and immunohistochemistry of activated microglia in different regions of the brains from control (phosphate-buffered saline-injected C57BL6 mice) and experimental mice (recombinant GM-CSF-injected C57BL6 mice, GM-CSF antibody-injected C57BL6 mice, and recombinant mouse GM-CSF plus anti-GM-CSF antibody-injected C57BL6 mice). We found increased mRNA expression of CD40 (9.75-fold), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (2.1-fold), CD45 (1.73-fold), and CD11c (1.70-fold) in the cerebral cortex of C57BL6 mice that were induced with recombinant GM-CSF, compared with control mice. Further, the anti-GM-CSF antibody suppressed microglia in mice that were induced with recombinant GM-CSF. Our immunoblotting and immunohistochemistry findings of GM-CSF-associated cytokines in C57BL6 mice induced with recombinant GM-CSF, in C57BL6 mice injected with the anti-GM-CSF antibody, and in C57BL6 mice injected with recombinant mouse GM-CSF plus anti-GM-CSF antibody concurred with our real-time RT-PCR findings. These findings suggest that GM-CSF is critical for microglial activation and that anti-GM-CSF antibody suppresses microglial activity in the CNS. The findings from this study may have implications for anti-inflammatory effects of Alzheimer's disease and experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis mice (a multiple sclerosis mouse model).
Cranial radiotherapy is common in pediatric oncology. Our purpose was to investigate if irradiation (IR) to the immature brain would increase the susceptibility to hypoxic-ischemic injury in adulthood. The left hemisphere of postnatal day 10 (P10) mice was irradiated with 8 Gy and subjected to hypoxia-ischemia (HI) on P60. Brain injury, neurogenesis and inflammation were evaluated 30 days after HI. IR alone caused significant hemispheric tissue loss, or lack of growth (2.8 +/- 0.42 mm(3), p &lt; 0.001). Tissue loss after HI (18.2 +/- 5.8 mm(3), p &lt; 0.05) was synergistically increased if preceded by IR (32.0 +/- 3.5 mm(3), p &lt; 0.05). Infarct volume (5.1 +/- 1.6 mm(3)) nearly doubled if HI was preceded by IR (9.8 +/- 1.2 mm(3), p &lt; 0.05). Pathological scoring revealed that IR aggravated hippocampal, cortical and striatal, but not thalamic, injury. Hippocampal neurogenesis decreased &gt; 50% after IR but was unchanged by HI alone. The number of newly formed microglia was three times higher after IR + HI than after HI alone. In summary, IR to the immature brain produced long-lasting changes, including decreased hippocampal neurogenesis, subsequently rendering the adult brain more susceptible to HI, resulting in larger infarcts, increased hemispheric tissue loss and more inflammation than in non-irradiated brains.
Nitric oxide (NO) is a key neuromodulator of corticostriatal synaptic transmission. We have shown previously that dopamine (DA) D1/5 receptor stimulation facilitates neuronal NO synthase (nNOS) activity in the intact striatum. To study the impact of local manipulations of D1/5 and glutamatergic NMDA receptors on striatal nNOS activity, we combined the techniques of in vivo amperometry and reverse microdialysis. Striatal NO efflux was monitored proximal to the microdialysis probe in urethane-anesthetized rats during local infusion of vehicle or drug. NO efflux elicited by systemic administration of SKF-81297 was blocked following intrastriatal infusion of: (i) the D1/5 receptor antagonist SCH-23390, (ii) the nNOS inhibitor 7-nitroindazole, (iii) the non-specific ionotropic glutamate receptor antagonist kynurenic acid, and (iv) the selective NMDA receptor antagonist 3-phosphonopropyl-piperazine-2-carboxylic acid. Glycine co-perfusion did not affect SKF-81297-induced NO efflux. Furthermore, intrastriatal infusion of SKF-81297 potentiated NO efflux evoked during electrical stimulation of the motor cortex. The facilitatory effects of cortical stimulation and SKF-81297 were both blocked by intrastriatal infusion of SCH-23390, indicating that striatal D1/5 receptor activation is necessary for the activation of nNOS by corticostriatal afferents. These studies demonstrate for the first time that reciprocal DA-glutamate interactions play a critical role in stimulating striatal nNOS activity.
Abstract Deposition of ubiquitinated protein aggregates is a hallmark of neurodegeneration in both acute neural injuries, such as stroke, and chronic conditions, such as Parkinson's disease, but the underlying mechanisms are poorly understood. In the present study, we examined the role of Zn2+ in ischemia-induced impairment of the ubiquitin-proteasome system in the CA1 region of rat hippocampus after transient global ischemia. We found that scavenging endogenous Zn2+ reduced ischemia-induced ubiquitin conjugation and free ubiquitin depletion. Furthermore, exposure to zinc chloride increased ubiquitination and inhibited proteasomal enzyme activity in cultured hippocampal neurons in a concentration- and time-dependent manner. Further studies of the underlying mechanisms showed that Zn(2+)-induced ubiquitination required p38 activation. These findings indicate that alterations in Zn2+ homeostasis impair the protein degradation pathway.
Focal cerebral ischemia and reperfusion initiates complex cellular and molecular interactions that lead to either cell repair or destruction. In earlier work, we found that activin A is an early gene response to cerebral ischemia and supports cortical neuron survival in vitro. In this study, the ability of exogenous activin A to attenuate injury from transient middle cerebral artery occlusion was tested in adult mice. Intracerebroventricular administration of activin A prior to middle cerebral artery occlusion reduced infarct volume apparent 1 day after experimental stroke. A single activin A administration at 6 h following ischemia/reperfusion reduced lesion volumes at 1 and 3 days and led to improved neurobehavior. Moreover, activin A treatment spared neurons within the ischemic hemisphere and led to a concomitant reduction in microglial activation. Activation of the stress-responsive kinases p38 and c-jun N-terminal kinase implicated in neuronal apoptosis after stroke was reduced following activin A treatment. Together these findings suggest that activin A promotes tissue survival after focal cerebral ischemia/reperfusion with an extended therapeutic window.
The metabolism of amyloid beta-protein precursor (APP) is regulated by various cytoplasmic and/or membrane-associated proteins, some of which are involved in the regulation of intracellular membrane trafficking. We found that a protein containing Asp-His-His-Cys (DHHC) domain, alcadein and APP interacting DHHC protein (AID)/DHHC-12, strongly inhibited APP metabolism, including amyloid beta-protein (Abeta) generation. In cells expressing AID/DHHC-12, APP was tethered in the Golgi, and APP-containing vesicles disappeared from the cytoplasm. Although DHHC domain-containing proteins are involved in protein palmitoylation, a AID/DHHC-12 mutant of which the enzyme activity was impaired by replacing the DHHC sequence with Ala-Ala-His-Ser (AAHS) made no detectable difference in the generation and trafficking of APP-containing vesicles in the cytoplasm or the metabolism of APP. Furthermore, the mutant AID/DHHC-12 significantly increased non-amyloidogenic alpha-cleavage of APP along with activation of a disintegrin and metalloproteinase 17, a major alpha-secretase, suggesting that protein palmitoylation involved in the regulation of alpha-secretase activity. AID/DHHC-12 can modify APP metabolism, including Abeta generation in multiple ways by regulating the generation and/or trafficking of APP-containing vesicles from the Golgi and their entry into the late secretary pathway in an enzymatic activity-independent manner, and the alpha-cleavage of APP in the enzymatic activity-dependent manner.
In Japanese quail, males will readily exhibit the full sequence of male-typical sexual behaviors but females never show this response, even after ovariectomy and treatment with male-typical concentrations of exogenous testosterone. Testosterone aromatisation plays a key-limiting role in the activation of this behavior but the higher aromatase activity in the brain of males compared to females is not sufficient to explain the behavioural sex difference. The cellular and molecular bases of this prominent sex difference in the functional consequences of testosterone have not been identified so far. We hypothesised that the differential expression of sex steroid receptors in specific brain areas could mediate this behavioural sex difference. Therefore, using radioactive in situ hybridisation histochemistry, we quantified the expression of the mRNA coding for the androgen receptor (AR) and the oestrogen receptors (ER) of the alpha and beta subtypes. All three receptors were expressed in an anatomically discrete manner in various nuclei of the hypothalamus and limbic system and, at usually lower densities, in a few other brain areas. In both sexes, the intensity of the hybridisation signal for all steroid receptors was highest in the medial preoptic nucleus (POM), a major site of testosterone action that is related to the activation of male sexual behaviour. Although no sex difference in the optical density of the AR hybridisation signal could be found in POM, the area covered by AR mRNA was significantly larger in males than in females, indicating a higher overall degree of AR expression in this region in males. By contrast, females tended to have significantly higher levels of AR expression than males in the lateral septum. ERalpha was more densely expressed in females than males throughout the medial preoptic and hypothalamic areas (including the POM and the medio-basal hypothalamus), an area implicated in the control of female receptivity) and in the mesencephalic nucleus intercollicularis. ERbeta was more densely expressed in the medio-basal hypothalamus of females but a difference in the reverse direction (males &gt; females) was observed in the nucleus taeniae of the amygdala. These data suggest that a differential expression of steroid receptors in specific brain areas could mediate at least certain aspects of the sex differences in behavioural responses to testosterone, although they do not appear to be sufficient to explain the complete lack of activation by testosterone of male-typical copulatory behaviour in females.

The importance of microglial cells in the maintenance of a well-functioning central nervous system (CNS) cannot be overstated. As descendants of the myelomonocytic lineage they are industrious housekeepers and watchful sentries that safeguard a homeostatic environment through a number of mechanisms designed to provide protection of fastidious neurons at all times. Microglia become particularly active after homeostasis has been perturbed by physical injury or other insults and they enter into a state of activation which is determined largely by the nature and severity of the lesion. Microglial activation is the main cellular event in acute neuroinflammation and essential for wound healing in the CNS. Recent studies from this laboratory have been focused on microglia in the aging brain and identified structural abnormalities, termed microglial dystrophy, that are consistent with cell senescence and progress to a form of accidental cell death that is marked by cytoplasmic degeneration and has been termed cytorrhexis. Cytorrhexis of microglia is infrequent in the normally aged human brain and non-detectable in aged rodents, but its occurrence increases dramatically during neurodegenerative conditions, including Alzheimer's disease (AD) in humans and motoneuron disease in transgenic rats. The identification of degenerating microglia has given rise to a novel theory of AD pathogenesis, the microglial dysfunction hypothesis, which views the loss of microglial neuroprotection as a central event in neurodegenerative disease development.
Our objective was to retrospectively review the emerging role of CT, CTA, and perfusion CT (pCT) in the hyperacute stroke population of a community hospital. We reviewed 50 consecutive patients' records and imaging studies, who were treated with thrombolytic therapy within 6 h of symptom onset. Multidetector CT, CTA, and pCT studies were evaluated. Subsequent CT, magnetic resonance, or angiographic studies when available were correlated. Patients' clinical data at admission and outcomes at discharge were evaluated. Complications were tabulated. Of the 50 patients treated with thrombolytics, 37 had CT/CTA/pCT, the others non-contrast CT only. CT blood volume defect was present in a total of 14 patients, presaging permanent infarct in all. Arterial clot was seen in 28/37 CTAs (carotid &quot;T&quot; 6, MCA 16, vertebrobasilar 6). Viable penumbra was shown in 20/37; rescued penumbra was depicted after treatment in 14. 39 patients were treated with intravenous, nine with intra-arterial, two with both forms of thrombolysis. Modified Rankin score showed clinical improvement in 58%, three patients had complete recovery. Subsequent bleed was shown in two (4%), symptomatic in one (2%). Two patients died. Our experience suggests advanced CT is more sensitive to ischemia than routine CT, that salvageable penumbra can be identified, and that triage of patients with acute stroke for thrombolysis with CT/CTA/pCT is more robust than routine CT alone, and may improve outcomes in the community hospital setting.
Genetic susceptibility to multiple sclerosis (MS) is associated with genes of the major histocompatibility complex, particularly with the HLA DRB1*1501-DQA1*0102-DQB1*0602 haplotype in Caucasians. To investigate the association of DRB1, DQA1 and DQB1 alleles and haplotypes with MS in Biscay, Basque Country, northern Spain, we examined 197 patients and 200 regionally matched controls. High resolution HLA class II typing was performed by polymerase chain reaction followed by sequence-specific oligonucleotide probe hybridization. Several alleles were overrepresented in MS patients compared with those of controls: DRB1*0402, DRB1*1303, DRB1*1501, DQA1*0102, DQB1*0301, and DQB1*0602. DQB1*0602 was the only potentially predisposing allele for MS that withstood Bonferroni correction and maintained the association in a logistic regression model. On the other hand, several alleles showed lower frequencies in the MS group: DRB1*0101, DQA1*0101, DQB1*0303, and DQB1*0501, but only DRB1*0101 and DQB1*0303 maintained a negative association with the disease in the regression analysis. Three haplotypes were identified as potentially predisposing for MS in our population: DRB1*1501-DQA1*0102-DQB1*0602, DRB1*0402-DQA1*0301-DQB1*0302, and HLA-DRB1*013-DQA1*05-DQB1*0301. Additionally, three haplotypes associated with a lower risk for MS were identified, exhibiting DRB1*0101-DQA1*0101-DQB1*0501 the strongest negative association with MS [12% in controls vs. 3.8% in MS, Pc = 0.00047, OR = 0.290 (95% CI = 0.1600.528)], and suggesting, therefore, a putative protective role for this haplotype in the population under study.
The mechanism underlying the motor fluctuations that develop after long-term L-dopa therapy is not fully known. It has been speculated that malabsorption of L-dopa from the small intestine occurs. It was reported that gastric retention in Parkinson's disease (PD) patients with motor fluctuations is increased as compared with that in PD without fluctuations. Because L-dopa therapy may worsen the symptoms of delayed gastric emptying (GE), it was not clear whether the delayed GE of PD patients with motor fluctuation was affected by L-dopa therapy. We assessed GE in PD patients with and without motor fluctuations. We investigated GE in 40 patients with PD under long-term L-dopa therapy, 20 fluctuators with &quot;delayed-on&quot; and &quot;noon&quot; phenomena, 20 nonfluctuators, and 20 healthy volunteers. GE was examined by the 13C-acetate breath test ((13)CABT) [the half emptying time (HET), the peak time of the (13)C-%-dose-excess curve (T(max))], with expirations collected for 4 h after a test meal and analyzed for (13)CO(2) using an infrared (IR) spectrophotometer. The T(max) of GE as assessed using the (13)C-ABT was significantly delayed in all PD patients as compared with controls (P = 0.002). The HET was significantly delayed in all PD patients as compared with controls (P &lt; 0.001). The T(max) and HET were not significantly delayed in PD patients with motor fluctuations as compared with PD patients without motor fluctuations. These results demonstrated that GE is commonly delayed in PD patients with long-term L-dopa therapy. Delayed GE does not differ between PD patients with and without motor fluctuations. This finding demonstrated that the motor fluctuation in PD may not be influenced by GE.



Network outputs elicited by a specific stimulus may differ radically depending on the momentary network state. One class of networks states-experience-dependent states-is known to operate in numerous networks, yet the fundamental question concerning the relative role that inputs and states play in determining the network outputs remains to be investigated in a behaviorally relevant manner. Because previous work indicated that in the isolated nervous system the motor outputs of the Aplysia feeding network are affected by experience-dependent states, we sought to establish the behavioral relevance of these outputs. We analyzed the phasing of firing of radula opening motoneurons (B44 and B48) relative to other previously characterized motoneurons. We found that the overall pattern of motoneuronal firing corresponds to the phasing of movements during feeding behavior, thus indicating a behavioral relevance of network outputs. Previous studies suggested that network inputs act to trigger a response rather than to shape its characteristics, with the latter function being fulfilled by network states. We show this is an oversimplification. In a rested state, different inputs elicited distinct responses, indicating that inputs not only trigger but also shape the responses. However, depending on the combination of inputs and states, responses were either dramatically altered by the network state or were indistinguishable from those observed in the rested state. We suggest that the relative contributions of inputs and states are dynamically regulated and, rather than being fixed, depend on the specifics of states and inputs.
The original motivation for this study was the observation in previous human experiments that the motor neuron firing frequency (recorded from the motor units in the EMG) was lower at derecruitment than that at recruitment, with slow linearly varying voluntary contractions. Are the lower firing rates at derecruitment correlated with a change in the postspike afterhyperpolarization (AHP) after preceding spike trains? This question was investigated by intracellular recordings from cat motor neurons in both unanesthetized and anesthetized preparations. The firing frequencies at recruitment and derecruitment were compared during slow triangular current injections mimicking the slow linearly varying voluntary contractions in humans. There was a lower frequency at derecruitment in almost all motor neurons (83 of 86 motor neurons; mean = 3.35 Hz). Thus intrinsic mechanisms play an important role for the lower frequencies at derecruitment. This was independent of whether the current injection had activated persistent inward current (PIC; plateau potentials, secondary range firing). It was found that a preceding spike train could prolong the AHP duration following a subsequent spike. The lower rate at derecruitment matches the prolongation of the AHP. However, a quantitative comparison between the lowest firing frequency and AHP duration for individual motor neurons reveal that the predicted lowest firing frequency does not match the absolute AHP duration; the lowest frequency is lower than that predicted from AHP duration in fast motoneurons and higher than expected in slow motoneurons. It is suggested that these deviations are explained by the presence of synaptic noise as well as recruitment of PICs below firing threshold. Thus synaptic noise may allow spike discharge even after the end of the AHP in &quot;fast&quot; motor neurons, whereas synaptic noise and PICs below spike threshold tend to give higher minimum firing frequencies in &quot;slow&quot; motor neurons than predicted from AHP duration.
The presence and influence of neurons containing multiple neurotransmitters is well established, including the ability of coreleased transmitters to influence the same or different postsynaptic targets. Little is known, however, regarding whether presynaptic regulation of multitransmitter neurons influences all transmission from these neurons. Using the identified neurons and motor networks in the crab stomatogastric ganglion, we document the ability of presynaptic inhibition to selectively inhibit peptidergic cotransmission. Specifically, we determine that the gastropyloric receptor (GPR) proprioceptor neuron uses presynaptic inhibition to selectively regulate peptidergic cotransmission from the axon terminals of MCN1, a projection neuron that drives the biphasic (retraction, protraction) gastric mill (chewing) rhythm. MCN1 drives this rhythm via fast GABAergic excitation of the retraction neuron Int1 and slow peptidergic excitation of the lateral gastric (LG) protraction neuron. We first demonstrate that GPR inhibition of the MCN1 axon terminals is serotonergic and then establish that this serotonergic inhibition weakens MCN1 peptidergic excitation of LG without altering MCN1 GABAergic excitation of Int1. At the circuit level, we show that this selective regulation of MCN1 peptidergic cotransmission is necessary for the normal GPR regulation of the gastric mill rhythm. This is the first demonstration, at the level of individual identified neurons, that a presynaptic input can selectively regulate a subset of coreleased transmitters. This selective regulation changes the balance of cotransmitter actions by the target multitransmitter neuron, thereby enabling this neuron to have state-dependent actions on its target network. This finding reveals additional flexibility afforded by the ability of neurons to corelease multiple neurotransmitters.
A full understanding of the computations performed in primary visual cortex is an important yet elusive goal. Receptive field models consisting of cascades of linear filters and static nonlinearities may be adequate to account for responses to simple stimuli such as gratings and random checkerboards, but their predictions of responses to complex stimuli such as natural scenes are only approximately correct. It is unclear whether these discrepancies are limited to quantitative inaccuracies that reflect well-recognized mechanisms such as response normalization, gain controls, and cross-orientation suppression or, alternatively, imply additional qualitative features of the underlying computations. To address this question, we examined responses of V1 and V2 neurons in the monkey and area 17 neurons in the cat to two-dimensional Hermite functions (TDHs). TDHs are intermediate in complexity between traditional analytic stimuli and natural scenes and have mathematical properties that facilitate their use to test candidate models. By exploiting these properties, along with the laminar organization of V1, we identify qualitative aspects of neural computations beyond those anticipated from the above-cited model framework. Specifically, we find that V1 neurons receive signals from orientation-selective mechanisms that are highly nonlinear: they are sensitive to phase correlations, not just spatial frequency content. That is, the behavior of V1 neurons departs from that of linear-nonlinear cascades with standard modulatory mechanisms in a qualitative manner: even relatively simple stimuli evoke responses that imply complex spatial nonlinearities. The presence of these findings in the input layers suggests that these nonlinearities act in a feedback fashion.
It is well known that parts of a visual scene are prioritized for visual processing, depending on the current situation. How the CNS moves this focus of attention across the visual image is largely unknown, although there is substantial evidence that preparation of an action is a key factor. Our results support the view that direct corticocortical feedback connections from frontal oculomotor areas to the visual cortex are responsible for the coupling between eye movements and shifts of visuospatial attention. Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI)-guided transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) was applied to the frontal eye fields (FEFs) and intraparietal sulcus (IPS). A single pulse was delivered 60, 30, or 0 ms before a discrimination target was presented at, or next to, the target of a saccade in preparation. Results showed that the known enhancement of discrimination performance specific to locations to which eye movements are being prepared was enhanced by early TMS on the FEF contralateral to eye movement direction, whereas TMS on the IPS resulted in a general performance increase. The current findings indicate that the FEF affects selective visual processing within the visual cortex itself through direct feedback projections.
Learning-correlated changes in the excitability and photoresponses of Hermissenda's ocular type B photoreceptors are mediated by reductions in two distinct K(+) currents, I(A) and I(K-Ca). The suppression of these K(+) currents has been linked to conditioning-produced activation of protein kinase C (PKC). The question of whether PKC accounts completely for the changes in excitability and K(+) currents or whether other kinase(s) are involved has received little attention. In the present experiments, we asked whether protein tyrosine kinases (PTKs) might also contribute to conditioning-produced alterations in B cells. We found that the PTK inhibitors genistein and lavendustin A greatly reduced cumulative depolarization of type B cells, a short-term correlate of associative learning. This disruption occurred even when PKC activation had been either occluded by preexposure of type B cells to a phorbol ester or otherwise prevented by the pseudosubstrate inhibitor peptide PKC[19-31]. PTK inhibitors also increased the amplitude of the transient (I(A)) and delayed (I(Delayed)) components of voltage-dependent K(+) current that have previously been shown to be selectively reduced by conditioning and to contribute to cumulative depolarization. Genistein partially prevented the reduction of I(A) and I(Delayed) due to in vitro conditioning and blocked the changes in their voltage dependencies. Ionophoresis of pervanadate ion, a potent inhibitor of protein tyrosine phosphatases, depolarized type B photoreceptors and occluded conditioning-produced cumulative depolarization. Pervanadate also suppressed I(A) and I(Delayed), reduced their voltage dependence, and altered inactivation kinetics for I(A), mimicking conditioning. Western blot analysis using a phosphotyrosine antibody indicated that conditioning increased the phosphotyrosine content of many proteins within the Hermissenda CNS. Collectively, our results suggest that in addition to PKC, one or more PTKs play an important role in conditioning-produced changes in type B cell excitability. PTKs and PKCs converge to effect reductions in B cell K(+) currents during conditioning, apparently through distinct biophysical mechanisms.
Areas of human posterior parietal cortex (PPC) specialized for processing sensorimotor information associated with visually locating an object, reaching to grasp, and manually exploring that object were examined using functional MRI. Cortical activation was observed in response to three tasks: 1) saccadic eye movements, 2) visually guided reaching to grasp, and 3) manual shape discrimination. During saccadic eye movements, cortical fields within the lateral and rostral superior parietal lobe (SPL) and the caudal SPL and parieto-occipital boundary were active. During visually guided reaching to grasp, regions of cortex within the postcentral sulcus (PoCS) and rostral intraparietal sulcus (IPS) were active, as well as the caudal SPL of the left hemisphere and the medial and caudal IPS of the right hemisphere. Cortical regions at the junction of the IPS and PoCS and an area in the medial SPL were active bilaterally during shape manipulation. Only a few regions were most active during a single motor behavior, whereas several areas were highly active during two or more tasks. Hemispheric asymmetries in activation patterns were observed during visually guided reaching to grasp. The gross areal organization of human PPC is likely similar to the pattern previously described in nonhuman primates, including multifunctional regions and asymmetric processing of some manual abilities.
The adult Xenopus optic tectum receives and integrates visual and nonvisual sensory information. Nonvisual inputs include mechanosensory inputs from the lateral line, auditory, somatosensory, and vestibular systems. While much is known about the development of visual inputs in this species, almost nothing is known about the development of mechanosensory inputs to the tectum. In this study, we investigated mechanosensory inputs to the tectum during critical developmental stages (stages 42-49) in which the retinotectal map is being established. Tract-tracing studies using lipophilic dyes revealed a large projection between the hindbrain and the tectum as early as stage 42; this projection carries information from the Vth, VIIth, and VIIIth nerves. By directly stimulating hindbrain and visual inputs using an isolated whole-brain preparation, we found that all tectal cells studied received both visual and hindbrain input during these early developmental stages. Pharmacological data indicated that the hindbrain-tectal projection is glutamatergic and that there are no direct inhibitory hindbrain-tectal ascending projections. We found that unlike visual inputs, hindbrain inputs do not show a decrease in paired-pulse facilitation over this developmental period. Interestingly, over this developmental period, hindbrain inputs show a transient increase followed by a significant decrease in the alpha-amino-3-hydroxyl-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate (AMPA)/N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) ratio and show no change in quantal size, both in contrast to visual inputs. Our data support a model by which fibers are added to the hindbrain-tectal projection across development. Nascent fibers form new synapses with tectal neurons and primarily activate NMDA receptors. At a time when retinal ganglion cells and their tectal synapses mature, hindbrain-tectal synapses are still undergoing a period of rapid synaptogenesis. This study supports the idea that immature tectal cells receive converging visual and mechanosensory information and indicates that the Xenopus tectum might be an ideal preparation to study the early development of potential multisensory interactions at the cellular level.
Studies of hand manipulation neurons in posterior parietal cortex of monkeys suggest that their spike trains represent objects by the hand postures needed for grasping or by the underlying patterns of muscle activation. To analyze the role of hand kinematics and object properties in a trained prehension task, we correlated the firing rates of neurons in anterior area 5 with hand behaviors as monkeys grasped and lifted knobs of different shapes and locations in the workspace. Trials were divided into four classes depending on the approach trajectory: forward, lateral, and local approaches, and regrasps. The task factors controlled by the animal-how and when he used the hand-appeared to play the principal roles in modulating firing rates of area 5 neurons. In all, 77% of neurons studied (58/75) showed significant effects of approach style on firing rates; 80% of the population responded at higher rates and for longer durations on forward or lateral approaches that included reaching, wrist rotation, and hand preshaping prior to contact, but only 13% distinguished the direction of reach. The higher firing rates in reach trials reflected not only the arm movements needed to direct the hand to the target before contact, but persisted through the contact, grasp, and lift stages. Moreover, the approach style exerted a stronger effect on firing rates than object features, such as shape and location, which were distinguished by half of the population. Forty-three percent of the neurons signaled both the object properties and the hand actions used to acquire them. However, the spread in firing rates evoked by each knob on reach and no-reach trials was greater than distinctions between different objects grasped with the same approach style. Our data provide clear evidence for synergies between reaching and grasping that may facilitate smooth, coordinated actions of the arm and hand.
The planum temporale (PT) is an anatomically heterogeneous area with several architectonic subdivisions and extensive connections with other parts of the brain. Here I review a functional MRI study investigating the role of a functionally defined area (Spt) within the left PT in speech motor processing and discuss the functional properties of PT regions in the context of findings from recent neurophysiological and neuroimaging studies.
We studied 12 peripheral neuropathy patients (PNP) and 13 age-matched controls with the &quot;broken escalator&quot; paradigm to see how somatosensory loss affects gait adaptation and the release and recovery (&quot;braking&quot;) of the forward trunk overshoot observed during this locomotor aftereffect. Trunk displacement, foot contact signals, and leg electromyograms (EMGs) were recorded while subjects walked onto a stationary sled (BEFORE trials), onto the moving sled (MOVING or adaptation trials), and again onto the stationary sled (AFTER trials). PNP were unsteady during the MOVING trials, but this progressively improved, indicating some adaptation. During the after trials, 77% of control subjects displayed a trunk overshoot aftereffect but over half of the PNP (58%) did not. The PNP without a trunk aftereffect adapted to the MOVING trials by increasing distance traveled; subsequently this was expressed as increased distance traveled during the aftereffect rather than as a trunk overshoot. This clear separation in consequent aftereffects was not seen in the normal controls suggesting that, as a result of somatosensory loss, some PNP use distinctive strategies to negotiate the moving sled, in turn resulting in a distinct aftereffects. In addition, PNP displayed earlier than normal anticipatory leg EMG activity during the first after trial. Although proprioceptive inputs are not critical for the emergence or termination of the aftereffect, somatosensory loss induces profound changes in motor adaptation and anticipation. Our study has found individual differences in adaptive motor performance, indicative that PNP adopt different feed-forward gait compensatory strategies in response to peripheral sensory loss.
In neural stem cells (NSCs), glycoconjugates and carbohydrate antigens are known not only to serve as excellent cell surface biomarkers for cellular differentiation and development but also to play important functional roles in determining cell fate. O-linked beta-N-acetylglucosamine (O-GlcNAc), which modifies nuclear and cytoplasmic proteins on the serine and threonine residues, is also expected to play an important regulatory role. It is not known, however, whether O-GlcNAc is expressed in NSCs or what the function of this expression is. In this study, we evaluated the patterns and possible functions of O-GlcNAcylation in mouse embryonic neuroepithelial cells (NECs), which are known to be rich in NSCs. We confirmed the expression of O-GlcNAc transferase, O-GlcNAcase, and several O-GlcNAcylated proteins in NECs. Treatment of NECs with O-GlcNAcase inhibitors, PUGNAc and streptozotocin, induced robust accumulation of O-GlcNAc in NECs and reduction of number of NECs. In O-GlcNAcase inhibitor-treated NECs, the Ras-mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway and the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase-Akt pathway, important for proliferation and survival, respectively, were intact, but caspase-3, an executioner for cell death, was activated. These results suggest the possibility that O-GlcNAc is involved in cell death signaling in NECs. Furthermore, in NECs, we identified an O-GlcNAc-modified protein, Sp1 transcription factor. Our study is the first to evaluate expression and functions of O-GlcNAc in NECs.
Enriched environments enhance hippocampal neurogenesis, synaptic efficacy, and learning and memory functions. Recent studies have demonstrated that enriched environments can restore learning behavior and long-term memory after significant brain atrophy and neural loss. Emotional and anxiety-related behaviors were also improved by enriched stimuli, but the effect of enriched environments on the amygdala, one of the major emotion-related structures in the central nervous system, remains largely unknown. In this study, we have focused on the effects of an enriched environment on cell proliferation and differentiation in the murine amygdala. The enriched environment increased bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU)-positive (newborn) cell numbers in the amygdala, almost all of which, immediately after a 1-week period of enrichment, expressed the oligodendrocyte progenitor marker Olig2. Furthermore, enriched stimuli significantly suppressed cell death in the amygdala. Some of the BrdU-positive cells in mice exposed to the enriched environment, but none in animals housed in the standard environment, later differentiated into astrocytes. Our findings, taken together with previous behavioral studies, suggest that progenitor proliferation and differentiation in the amygdala may contribute to the beneficial aspects of environmental enrichment such as anxiolytic effects.
We previously reported that administration of the synthetic cannabinoid agonist WIN 55,212-2 causes an increase in norepinephrine (NE) efflux in the frontal cortex (FC). The present study examined the expression levels of alpha2- and beta1-adrenergic receptors (ARs) as well as the norepinephrine transporter (NET) in the FC of rats following exposure to WIN 55,212-2. Rats received systemic injection of WIN 55,212-2 (3 mg/kg) acutely or for 7 days. Another group of rats received repeated WIN 55,212-2 treatment followed by a period of abstinence. Control rats received vehicle injections. Rats were euthanized 30 min after the last WIN 55,212-2 injection, the FC was microdissected, and protein extracts were probed for alpha2-AR, beta1-AR, and NET. Results showed that beta1-AR expression was significantly decreased following repeated WIN 55,212-2 treatment but significantly increased following a period of abstinence. alpha2-AR expression showed no significant change in all groups examined. NET expression was significantly decreased following acute WIN 55,212-2 treatment, with no changes following chronic administration or a period of abstinence. Alterations in NET may arise from modulation of cannabinoid receptors (CB1) that are localized to noradrenergic axon terminals as we demonstrate colocalization of CB1 receptor and NET in the same cortical axonal processes. The present findings support significant alterations in adrenergic receptor and NET expression in the FC after WIN 55,212 exposure that may underlie the reported changes in attention, cognition, and anxiety commonly observed after cannabinoid exposure.


We have previously shown that a small percentage of long descending propriospinal tract (LDPT) axons are spared, whereas few short thoracic propriospinal (TPS) fibers survive 2 weeks following severe (50 mm weight drop) low thoracic spinal cord contusion injury (SCI). Here, we extended those findings to a moderate (25 mm weight drop) T9 SCI and assessed the effects of this lesion severity on propriospinal tract fibers at different time periods after injury. We anterogradely labeled fibers with fluororuby (FR) or WGA-HRP to determine their location and number 2, 4, 6, and 16 weeks post-SCI. Findings were compared with non-injured controls. At chronic time points, surviving FR-labeled LDPT fibers rostral to the injury remained as reactive endings or as putative regenerative sprouts. Caudal to the injury, spared LDPT fibers ran along a rim of lateral and ventral white matter, and ended as small abnormal-appearing putative terminal boutons or reactive endings within the intermediate gray matter of lumbosacral cord, with little axonal arborization and no evidence of injury-induced sprouting. One striking difference in the WGA-HRP experimental operates was the increased density of labeling of spared axons within the white matter caudal to the injury compared to controls. This labeling pattern was reminiscent of the labeling found after axotomy in studies by others, and raises a question as to contusion injury-induced impaired axonal transport. We hypothesize that axonal sprouting of axons after partial spinal cord injury seen in previous investigations was not found in the present investigation because of the additional pathological effects of contusion injury, similar to what is observed after traumatic brain injury.
Cyclosporin A (CsA) has recently been proposed for use in the early phase after traumatic brain injury (TBI), for its ability to preserve mitochondrial integrity in experimental brain injury models, and thereby provide improved behavioral outcomes as well as significant histological protection. The aim of this prospective, randomized, double-blind, dual-center, placebo-controlled trial was to evaluate the safety, tolerability, and pharmacokinetics of a single intravenous infusion of CsA in patients with severe TBI. Fifty adult severe TBI patients were enrolled over a 22-month period. Within 12 h of the injury patients received 5 mg/kg of CsA infused over 24 h, or placebo. Blood urea nitrogen (BUN), creatinine, hemoglobin, platelets, white blood cell count (WBC), and a hepatic panel were monitored on admission, and at 12, 24, 36, and 48 h, and on days 4 and 7. Potential adverse events (AEs) were also recorded. Neurological outcome was recorded at 3 and 6 months after injury. This study revealed only transient differences in BUN levels at 24 and 48 h and for WBC counts at 24 h between the CsA and placebo patients. These modest differences were not clinically significant in that they did not negatively impact on patient course. Both BUN and creatinine values, markers of renal function, remained within their normal limits over the entire monitoring period. There were no significant differences in other mean laboratory values, or in the incidence of AEs at any other measured time point. Also, no significant difference was demonstrated for neurological outcome. Based on these results, we report a good safety profile of CsA infusion when given at the chosen dose of 5 mg/kg, infused over 24 h, during the early phase after severe head injury in humans, with the aim of neuroprotection.

Src kinase signaling has been implicated in multiple mechanisms of ischemic injury, including vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)-mediated vascular permeability that leads to vasogenic edema, a major clinical complication in stroke and brain trauma. Here we report the effects of two novel Src kinase inhibitors, 4-[(2,4-dichloro-5-methoxyphenyl)amino]-6-methoxy-7-[3-(4-methyl-1-piperazinyl)propoxy]-3-quinolinecarbonitrile (SKI-606) and 4-[(2,4-dichloro-5-methoxyphenyl)amino]-6-methoxy-7-[4-(4-methypiperazin-1-yl)but-1-ynyl]-3-quinolinecarbonitrile (SKS-927), on ischemia-induced brain infarction and short- and long-term neurological deficits. Two well established transient [transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (tMCAO)] and permanent [permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (pMCAO)] focal ischemia models in the rat were used with drug treatments initiated up to 6 h after onset of stroke to mimic the clinical scenario. Brain penetration of Src inhibitors, their effect on blood-brain barrier integrity and VEGF signaling in human endothelial cells were also evaluated. Our results demonstrate that both agents potently block VEGF-mediated signaling in human endothelial cells, penetrate rat brain upon systemic administration, and inhibit postischemic Src activation and vascular leakage. Treatment with SKI-606 or SKS-927 (at the doses of 3-30 mg/kg i.v.) resulted in a dose-dependent reduction in infarct volume and robust protection from neurological impairments even when the therapy was initiated up to 4- to 6-h after tMCAO. Src blockade after pMCAO resulted in accelerated improvement in recovery from motor, sensory, and reflex deficits during a long-term (3 weeks) testing period poststroke. These data demonstrate that the novel Src kinase inhibitors provide effective treatment against ischemic conditions within a clinically relevant therapeutic window and may constitute a viable therapy for acute stroke.
Phosphodiesterase 5A (PDE5A) inhibitors improve functional recovery after middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCA-o) in rats. We used the PDE5A inhibitor 3-(4-(2-hydroxyethyl)piperazin-1-yl)-7-(6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)-1-(2-propoxyethyl)pyrido[3,4-b]pyrazin-2(1H)-one hydrochloride (PF-5) to determine the timing, duration, and degree of inhibition that yields maximum efficacy. We also investigated the localization of PDE5A to determine the tissues and cells that would be targets for PDE5 inhibition and that may mediate efficacy. Nearly complete inhibition of PDE5A, starting 24 h after MCA-o and continued for 7 days, resulted in nearly complete recovery of sensorimotor function that was sustained for 3 months. Delaying administration until 72 h after MCA-o resulted in equivalent efficacy, whereas delaying treatment for 14 days was ineffective. Treatment for 7 days was equivalently efficacious to 28 or 84 days of treatment, whereas treatment for 1 day was less effective. In the normal forebrain, PDE5A immunoreactivity was prominent in smooth muscle of meningeal arteries and a few smaller blood vessels, with weak staining in a few widely scattered cortical neurons and glia. At 24 and 48 h after MCA-o, the number and intensity of blood vessel staining increased in the infarcted cortex and striatum. PDE5A immunoreactivity also was increased at 48 h in putative microglia in penumbra, whereas there was no change in staining of the scattered cortical neurons. Given the window for efficacy and the PDE5A distribution, we hypothesize that efficacy results from an effect on vasculature, and perhaps modulation of microglial function, both of which may facilitate recovery of neuronal function.
In oocytes, glycine activates receptors formed by diheteromeric combinations of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) NR1 and NR3 subunits. In contrast, functional receptors in mammalian cells require the simultaneous expression of NR1 and both NR3A and NR3B subunits. In vivo, NR3A and NR3B subunits show differential expression patterns and thus may not naturally form triheteromeric receptors. In this study, we examined whether NR1 splice variants play a role in allowing assembly of functional diheteromeric receptors in mammalian cells. Little current was found in human embryonic kidney 293 cells coexpressing either NR3A or NR3B and the NR1-1a splice variant. However, robust glycine-activated currents were generated in cells transfected with NR3(A or B) and either NR1-2a, NR1-3a, or NR1-4a, and current density was correlated with NR1 C-terminal length. Truncation of the NR1-1a C terminus modestly enhanced NR1-1a/NR3A currents, whereas only small increases were observed with mutations of C-terminal residues that control trafficking or phosphorylation. In contrast, large currents were observed when an extracellular phenylalanine in NR1-1a that influences glycine access was mutated to alanine. A separate mutation in NR1-1a that disrupts glycine binding did not generate responses in NR1-1a/NR3A receptors alone, but it produced a greater than 30-fold potentiation of currents during coapplication of glycine and the glycine antagonist 7-chlorokynurenic acid. Finally, transfection of cells with the NR1-4a subunit along with NR2 and NR3 subunits resulted in the expression of both NR1/NR3 receptors and conventional NMDA receptor currents. These results indicate a prominent role for NR1 splice variants in the functional expression of NR1/NR3 receptors in mammalian cells.
We investigated the effects of brefeldin A and ilimaquinone, inhibitors of membrane trafficking, using serotonin transporter (SERT)-expressing COS-7 cells. Both drugs significantly inhibited the serotonin uptake activity of SERT and caused SERT to be retained in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), indicating that membrane trafficking is an important factor for SERT functional regulation. In agreement with previous reports, a C-terminal-deletion mutant of SERT (SERTDeltaCT) mostly localized to the ER and completely lacked serotonin uptake activity. To further elucidate the role of the C-terminus of SERT, we investigated whether overexpression of FLAG-tagged SERT C-terminus (FLAG-SERT-CT) affected the serotonin uptake activity and glycosylation of SERT. Interestingly, when concomitantly expressed with full-length FLAG-SERT in COS-7 cells, FLAG-SERT-CT increased the serotonin uptake activity and mature glycosylation of FLAG-SERT. These results indicate that the C-terminal region of SERT plays a crucial role in the functional regulation of SERT via membrane trafficking and glycosylation. In addition, proteasome inhibitors induced apparent ER stress, significantly decreased the serotonin uptake activity and mature glycosylation of SERT and caused SERT to be localized to the ER, suggesting that SERT function would be attenuated via membrane trafficking in pathological states that trigger ER stress.


In secondary care, some patients with acute neurological symptoms are never seen by a neurologist. Rapid access neurology clinics could provide patients with timely access to neurology services. We analysed a retrospective cohort of 12,024 consecutive patients attending the 'immediate care' area of the emergency department or the acute medical admissions unit of the Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh. A total of 1,036 patients (9%) presented with a neurological complaint, of whom 680 (66%) did not have any contact with neurology services. The most common problems were epileptic seizure, cerebrovascular diseases and headache. Of the patients with epileptic seizure or headache who were not seen by a neurologist, about 40% might have benefited from neurological assessment. Following the introduction of a weekly rapid access neurology clinic, the most common problems seen were headache, symptoms that turned out to be medically unexplained and epileptic seizure.

Gaboxadol is a selective extrasynaptic GABA(A) receptor agonist previously in development for the treatment of insomnia. Due to its short half-life (1.5-2 h) it is expected to be free from residual effects the next morning. The present study assessed the residual effects of evening and middle-of-the-night administration of 15 mg of gaboxadol on cognitive, psychomotor and driving performance. Twenty-eight healthy volunteers entered the study with 25 (12 women; mean age 31.4 years) completing a double-blind, placebo-controlled, active-referenced five-way cross-over study. Each treatment night subjects ingested one capsule at 23:00 hours and one at 04:00 hours. Treatments were placebo at both times, 15 mg gaboxadol or 7.5 mg zopiclone followed by placebo, and placebo followed by 15 mg gaboxadol or 10 mg zolpidem. Effects on cognition and psychomotor performance were assessed between 07:30 and 08:30 hours and on driving between 09:00 and 10:00 hours. Driving, as measured by standard deviation of lateral position in an on-the-road driving test, was almost significantly (P &lt; 0.07) impaired after evening administration of gaboxadol for the all-subjects-completed set (n = 25) but significantly (P &lt; 0.05) in the full analysis set (n = 28). Effects of all other active treatments on driving were significant. Evening administration of gaboxadol had minor effects on divided attention only, whereas middle-of-the-night administration impaired performance significantly in all tests except memory. Zolpidem and zopiclone impaired performance significantly in every test except tracking after zopiclone; 15 mg of gaboxadol can produce minor residual effects on driving after evening administration. Administration later at night is associated with moderately impairing residual effects on driving and psychomotor performance but not on memory.


Amlodipine is a calcium-channel antagonist with neuropharmacological properties believed to be protective against cerebral hypoperfusion, microinfarcts, and excitoxic cell death. Based on its pharmacological properties, we hypothesized that amlodipine would be associated with improved attention, processing speed, memory, and executive functioning at treatment follow-up in 84 cocaine-dependent individuals enrolled in a 12-week, placebo-controlled, double-blind clinical trial of amlodipine. We also hypothesized that better cognitive functioning at baseline would be associated with reduced cocaine use (negative urine drug screens) and longer treatment retention (last session attended). Results indicated that amlodipine produced no measurable benefit in cognitive functioning. Percent perseverative errors on Wisconsin Card Sorting Test was negatively correlated with treatment retention (n = 84, r = -.350, p &lt; .01). No other findings were significant. Thus, cocaine-dependent individuals who repeated mistakes and benefited less from corrective feedback on a problem-solving task discontinued treatment earlier. Notably, no other cognitive measures predicted treatment outcome. The observed relationship implicates the relevance of executive functioning to treatment outcome for cocaine dependence.

When the succinate receptor (SUCNR1) is activated in the afferent arterioles of the glomerulus it increases renin release and induces hypertension. To study its location in other nephron segments and its role in kidney function, we performed immunohistochemical analysis and found that SUCNR1 is located in the luminal membrane of macula densa cells of the juxtaglomerular apparatus in close proximity to renin-producing granular cells, the cortical thick ascending limb, and cortical and inner medullary collecting duct cells. In order to study its signaling, SUCNR1 was stably expressed in Madin-Darby Canine Kidney (MDCK) cells, where it localized to the apical membrane. Activation of the cells by succinate caused Gq and Gi-mediated intracellular calcium mobilization, transient phosphorylation of extracellular regulated kinase (ERK)1/2 and the release of arachidonic acid along with prostaglandins E2 and I2. Signaling was desensitized without receptor internalization but rapidly resensitized upon succinate removal. Immunohistochemical evidence of phosphorylated ERK1/2 was found in cortical collecting duct cells of wild type but not SUCNR1 knockout streptozotocin-induced diabetic mice, indicating in vivo relevance. Since urinary succinate concentrations in health and disease are in the activation range of the SUCNR1, this receptor can sense succinate in the luminal fluid. Our study suggests that changes in the luminal succinate concentration may regulate several aspects of renal function.
Glutamate-induced cobalt uptake reveals that non-NMDA glutamate receptors (GluRs) are present in rat taste bud cells. Previous studies involving glutamate induced cobalt staining suggest this uptake mainly occurs via kainate type GluRs. It is not known which of the 4 types of taste bud cells express subunits of kainate GluR. Circumvallate and foliate papillae of Sprague-Dawley rats (45~60 days old) were used to search for the mRNAs of subunits of non-NMDA GluRs using RT-PCR with specific primers for GluR1-7, KA1 and KA2. We also performed RT-PCR for GluR5, KA1, PLCbeta2, and NCAM/SNAP 25 in isolated single cells from taste buds. Taste epithelium, including circumvallate or foliate papilla, express mRNAs of GluR5 and KA1. However, non-taste tongue epithelium expresses no subunits of non-NMDA GluRs. Isolated single cell RT-PCR reveals that the mRNAs of GluR5 and KA1 are preferentially expressed in Type II and Type III cells over Type I cells.
A dopaminergic deficiency in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) causes abnormalities of movement, behaviour, learning, and emotions. The main motor features (ie, tremor, rigidity, and akinesia) are associated with a deficiency of dopamine in the posterior putamen and the motor circuit. Hypokinesia and bradykinesia might have a dual anatomo-functional basis: hypokinesia mediated by brainstem mechanisms and bradykinesia by cortical mechanisms. The classic pathophysiological model for PD (ie, hyperactivity in the globus pallidus pars interna and substantia nigra pars reticulata) does not explain rigidity and tremor, which might be caused by changes in primary motor cortex activity. Executive functions (ie, planning and problem solving) are also impaired in early PD, but are usually not clinically noticed. These impairments are associated with dopamine deficiency in the caudate nucleus and with dysfunction of the associative and other non-motor circuits. Apathy, anxiety, and depression are the main psychiatric manifestations in untreated PD, which might be caused by ventral striatum dopaminergic deficit and depletion of serotonin and norepinephrine. In this Review we discuss the motor, cognitive, and psychiatric manifestations associated with the dopaminergic deficiency in the early phase of the parkinsonian state and the different circuits implicated, and we propose distinct mechanisms to explain the wide clinical range of PD symptoms at the time of diagnosis.


Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) research has shown that brain arteriovenous malformations (AVMs) lead to reorganization of cortical motor areas. Since it is known that blood oxygenation level-dependent signal in fMRI may be influenced by the hemodynamic perturbation associated with the presence of the AVM, in the present study, a combined exploration with fMRI and transcranial magnetic stimulation was performed in a patient with a right rolandic AVM in order to explore the relationship between neuronal and hemodynamic activity. The combined protocol of investigation adopted in this study was able to provide significant information regarding neuronal activity of the different cortical areas that partake to post-lesional reorganization.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) of the human spinal cord has revealed important details of activity involved with innocuous sensory stimuli, including the primary input to ipsilateral dorsal gray matter and activity in bilateral ventral gray matter regions. The latter is hypothesized to reflect descending modulation from the brainstem and cortex. Here, the functions corresponding to these areas of activity are investigated by varying the temperature of innocuous thermal stimuli, and the order they are presented, across repeated fMRI experiments in the spinal cord and brainstem. Group results and connectivity analyses reveal that the ipsilateral dorsal gray matter (dGM), the primary site of sensory input, also receives inhibitory input from the rostral ventromedial medulla and the locus coeruleus, two components of the brainstem opiate analgesia system. Ipsilateral ventral gray matter (vGM) receives input from the ipsilateral dGM and inhibitory input from the pontine reticular formation, which is involved with coordination of movements by modulation of ventral horn cells. Contralateral vGM regions appear to receive input from only the ipsilateral dGM in these studies. These results provide an unprecedented view of details of human spinal cord function and descending modulation, and have important implications for assessment of the effects of spinal cord trauma and disease by means of fMRI.
Magnesium (Mg) is essential for cell functions such as the transport of calcium and potassium ions, and modulates signal transduction, energy metabolism, and cell proliferation. Although mice have been used as models of various neurological diseases of humans, and for investigating the therapeutic effects of Mg, neither the normal concentration of Mg in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), nor its response to alteration of the serum level of Mg has yet been reported. The present study investigated the normal Mg concentration in the CSF of C57BL/6J (B6) and ICR mice and its response to elevation of the serum Mg level in B6 mice. In B6 mice, the normal Mg concentration in the CSF was 0.89  0.11 mM, being lower than that in serum, which was 1.38  0.12 mM, whereas in ICR mice the corresponding values were 1.00  0.12 mM and 1.10  0.09 mM, respectively. No significant alteration was found in the CSF of B6 mice injected intraperitoneally with Mg, even though the serum Mg concentration was significantly increased.
The crosstalk phenomenon consists in recording the volume-conducted electromyographic activity of muscles other than that under study. This interference may impair the correct interpretation of the results in a variety of experiments. A new protocol is presented here for crosstalk assessment between two muscles based on changes in their electrical activity following a reflex discharge in one of the muscles in response to nerve stimulation. A reflex compound muscle action potential (H-reflex) was used to induce a silent period in the muscle that causes the crosstalk, called here the remote muscle. The rationale is that if the activity recorded in the target muscle is influenced by a distant source (the remote muscle) a silent period observed in the electromyogram (EMG) of the remote muscle would coincide with a decrease in the EMG activity of the target muscle. The new crosstalk index is evaluated based on the root mean square (RMS) values of the EMGs obtained in two distinct periods (background EMG and silent period) of both the remote and the target muscles. In the present work the application focused on the estimation of the degree of crosstalk from the soleus muscle to the tibialis anterior muscle during quiet stance. However, the technique may be extended to other pairs of muscles provided a silent period may be evoked in one of them.
In this paper, Britten's opera Peter Grimes (1945) is used as an illustrative case study through which to examine the depiction of psychiatric disorders in opera. It is argued that Peter Grimes is a powerful example of how opera, in the hands of a great composer, can become an invaluable tool for examining subjective human experience. After a brief discussion of opera as a vehicle to express emotions, various operas are drawn upon to provide a historical perspective and to demonstrate the long interconnection existing between opera and madness. An in-depth analysis of Peter Grimes, its background and central character, is then provided, in order to demonstrate how opera can elicit empathy for individuals affected by mental health problems.

Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS) is a polygenic disorder caused by the interaction of susceptible genomic polymorphisms with environmental factors. PCOS, characterized by hyperandrogenism and menstrual abnormalities, has a higher prevalence in women with Bipolar Disorder (BD). Theories explaining this high prevalence have included the effect of PCOS itself or the effect of drugs such as Valproate, which may cause PCOS either directly or indirectly. Incidentally, metabolic abnormalities are observed in both bipolar and PCOS patients. Endophenotypes such as insulin resistance, obesity, and hyperglycemia are common among BD and PCOS patients, suggesting some degree of pathophysiological overlap. Since both BD and PCOS are complex polygenetic diseases, the endophenotype overlap may be the result of common genetic markers. This paper postulates that shared clinical endophenotypes between PCOS and BD indicate common pathophysiological platforms and will review these for the potential of genetic overlap between the two disorders.
Understanding the biomechanical mechanisms by which the cerebral cortex folds is a fundamental problem in neuroscience. Current mathematical models of cortical folding do not include three dimensional geometry or measurement of cortical growth in developing brains extracted from experimental data. We present two biomechanical models of cortical folding which integrate 3D geometry and information taken from MRI scans of fetal sheep brains at a number of key developmental stages. The first model utilises diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) measurements of white matter fibre orientation in the fetal sheep brains as a cue to the tension forces that may regulate folding. In the second model, tangential cortical growth is modelled by osmotic expansion of the tissue and regulated by inhomogeneous white matter rigidity as a biomechanism of cortical folding. This is based on quantitative analysis of cortical growth and inhomogeneous white matter anisotropy measured from the MRI data. We demonstrate that structural and diffusion tensor MRI can be combined with finite element modelling and an explicit growth mechanism of the cortex to create biologically meaningful models of the cortical folding process common to higher order mammals.
In this article the arguments against euthanasia are examined. One of the weightiest arguments of mental health professionals against the practice of euthanasia is that a doctor's active commitment to euthanasia can be interpreted as causing harm. It is investigated whether this statement can be ethically justified on the basis of the text of the medical oath or medical declaration. Furthermore, it will be discussed whether it is ethically acceptable when doctors refuse a) to help candidates of euthanasia who (would likely) meet the legal standards of euthanasia, or b) to refer them to a colleague.
Abstract We conducted a four-year (2003-2006) retrospective study of yeasts recovered in a hospital laboratory in the centre of Portugal to evaluate the epidemiology of yeast infections. Clinical isolates and data were gathered from 751 patients corresponding to 906 episodes of yeast infection. The isolates were first identified using classical and commercial methods, routinely employed at the hospital laboratory. We then re-identified the same isolates using RFLP of the ITS 5.8S rRNA gene and sequence of the D1/D2 domain of the 26S rRNA gene. Candida parapsilosis isolates were re-identified using the Ban I digestion of the SADH gene. C. albicans was the most frequently isolated of the yeasts found in the analysed specimens, with an overall incidence of 69.6% and then in decreasing order, C. glabrata, C. tropicalis, C. parapsilosis and C. krusei. C. parapsilosis was most frequently recovered from younger patients, decreasing with age, while C. glabrata occurrence increased with age. We found an increased number of cases of fungemia per 100,000 people per year, reaching a maximum of 4.4 during 2006.
The widespread expression of morphine by plants, invertebrate and vertebrate cells/organ systems strongly indicates a high level of evolutionary conservation of morphine and related morphinan alkaloids as essential chemical factors required for normal growth and development. The prototype catecholamine dopamine (DA) serves as an essential chemical intermediate in morphine biosynthesis both in plants and animals. We surmise primordial, multi-potential cell types, before the emergence of specialized plant and animal cells/organ systems, required selective mechanisms to limit their responsiveness to environmental noise. Accordingly, cellular systems that emerged with the potential for recruitment of the free radical gas nitric oxide (NO) as a multi-faceted autocrine/paracrine signaling molecule were provided with extremely positive evolutionary advantages. Endogenous &quot;morphinergic&quot; in concert with NO-coupled signaling systems have evolved as autocrine/paracrine regulators of metabolic homeostasis, energy metabolism, mitochondrial respiration and energy production. Basic physiological processes involving &quot;morphinergic&quot;/NO-coupled regulation of mitochondrial function, with special emphasis on the cardiovascular system, are critical to all organismic survival. Critical to this concept may be the phenomenon of mitochondrial enslavement in eukaryotic evolution via morphine.


We previously demonstrated that there is a significantly greater transfer of intravenously-injected Evan's blue dye into the forebrain of acyclic (reproductive senescent) females compared to young adult females, indicating that blood brain barrier permeability is compromised in the reproductive senescent forebrain. The present study examined brain IgG expression and microvessel tight junction proteins to assess ovarian age-related changes in microvascular permeability, and further compared young and senescent females with age-matched males to distinguish changes attributable to age and reproductive senescence. Blood brain barrier breakdown are often associated with increased extravasation of plasma proteins and high levels of immunoglobulin G (IgG) in brain. In the present study, IgG expression was dramatically increased in the hippocampus and thalamus, but not the hypothalamus of reproductive senescent females compared to young adult females. In males, IgG expression was increased in all these regions in middle-aged animals (aged-matched to senescent females) as compared to young males (age-matched to the young adult females). Furthermore, the proportion of hippocampal microvessels with perivascular IgG immunoreactivity was significantly greater in reproductive senescent females as compared to young adult females, while middle-aged males and young adult males did not differ. The tight junctions between adjacent microvascular endothelial cells regulated by transmembrane proteins such as claudin-5 and occludin play a critical role in maintaining the blood brain barrier integrity. Increased hippocampal IgG expression in senescent females was paralleled by poor junctional localization of the tight junction protein claudin-5 in hippocampal microvessels. However, there was no difference in hippocampal claudin-5 localization between young adult and middle-aged males, indicating that dysregulation of this junctional protein was associated with ovarian aging. Parallel studies in human brain microvessels also revealed age-dependent disruption in claudin-5 distribution in post-menopausal women compared to pre-menopausal women. Collectively, these data support the hypothesis that constitutive loss of barrier integrity in the forebrain during reproductive senescence may be due, in part, to the selective loss of tight junction proteins in endothelial junctions.
With the increased incidence of migraine headaches noted in the military population it becomes imperative to find safe and effective treatment options for soldiers. Acupuncture may be one of those options. This pilot study used a standardized set of well-known acupuncture points over a predetermined time interval on 26 subjects suffering from chronic daily headache, the majority being migraineurs, and found a reduction in the frequency and intensity of their headaches. Headache calendars and validated measurements were compared 12 weeks before and 12 weeks after the acupuncture intervention. Results showed continued improvements 12 weeks after the last treatment. Traditionally, acupuncture treatments are individualized at each visit. However the absence of a standardized treatment regimen obstructs data reproducibility across the discipline. A standardized approach may be useful. Variations of these acupuncture points have been used in recent research studies for migraines and acupuncture for headaches for the past 2,000 years.

CXCR4 and CCR5 constitute the two major coreceptors for HIV-1 entry into host cells. In the course of an HIV-infection, a coreceptor switch takes place in approximately half of the patients - from R5 HIV-1 (CCR5 utilizing) strains to X4 HIV-1 (CXCR4 utilizing) strains. Treatment of HIV-infected individuals with CXCR4 antagonists delays the onset of AIDS by preventing the CCR5 to CXCR4 coreceptor switch. In addition to the endogenous CXCR4 and CCR5 ligands, other chemokines, for example the human herpesvirus 8 encoded CC-chemokine, vCCL2, and modifications hereof, have proven efficient HIV-1 cell-entry inhibition through chemokine receptor interaction. However, pharmacokinetic and immunogenic drawbacks of chemokines and peptidic/peptoid compounds have brought the attention towards small-molecule antagonists, such as AMD3100, that displays high specificity and affinity towards CXCR4, but unfortunately no oral bioavailability. The hunt for orally active small-molecule CXCR4 antagonists led to the development of monocyclam-based compounds, and recently to the non-cyclam antagonist AMD070, which is orally active and currently in Phase II clinical trial as anti-HIV treatment. Current review provides an overview of the drug discovery within the field of anti-HIV treatment targeting CXCR4 spanning from natural occurring and modified chemokines, to HIV-mimicking peptides and peptoids ending at the non-peptide antagonists.
Recent evidences indicate that transcription in Plasmodium may be hard-wired and rigid, deviating from the classical model of transcriptional gene regulation. Thus, it is important that other regulatory pathways be investigated as a comprehensive effort to curb the deadly malarial parasite. Research in post-translational modifications in Plasmodium is an emerging field that may provide new venues for drug discovery and potential new insights into how parasitic protozoans regulate their life cycle. Here, we discuss the recent findings of post-translational modifications in Plasmodium.
We have tested the hypothesis that kinesin-1A (formerly KIF5A) is an anterograde motor for axonal neurofilaments. In cultured sympathetic neurons from kinesin-1A knockout mice, we observed a 75% reduction in the frequency of both anterograde and retrograde neurofilament movement. This transport defect could be rescued by kinesin-1A, and with successively decreasing efficacy by kinesin-1B and kinesin-1C. In wild-type neurons, headless mutants of kinesin-1A and kinesin-1C inhibited both anterograde and retrograde movement in a dominant-negative manner. Because dynein is thought to be the retrograde motor for axonal neurofilaments, we investigated the effect of dynein inhibition on anterograde and retrograde neurofilament transport. Disruption of dynein function by using RNA interference, dominant-negative approaches, or a function-blocking antibody also inhibited both anterograde and retrograde neurofilament movement. These data suggest that kinesin-1A is the principal but not exclusive anterograde motor for neurofilaments in these neurons, that there may be some functional redundancy among the kinesin-1 isoforms with respect to neurofilament transport, and that the activities of the anterograde and retrograde neurofilament motors are tightly coordinated.
The bacterium Escherichia coli detects chemical attractants and repellents by means of a cluster of transmembrane receptors and associated molecules. Experiments have shown that this cluster amplifies the signal about 35-fold and current models attribute this amplification to cooperative interactions between neighbouring receptors. However, when applied to the mixed population of receptors of wild-type E. coli, these models lead to indiscriminate methylation of all receptor types rather than the selective methylation observed experimentally. In this paper, we propose that cooperative interactions occur not between receptors but in the underlying lattice of CheA molecules. In our model, each CheA molecule is stimulated by its neighbours via their flexible P1 domains and modulated by the ligand binding and methylation states of associated receptors. We test this idea with detailed, molecular-based stochastic simulations and show that it gives an accurate reproduction of signalling in this system, including ligand-specific adaptation.
Most epilepsy genes encode ion channels, but the LGI1 gene responsible for autosomal dominant partial epilepsy with auditory features produces a secreted protein. LGI1 is suggested to regulate PSD-95 via ADAM22. However, no unbiased screen of LGI1 action has been conducted. Here, we searched for brain genes supporting high affinity LGI-1 binding. ADAM23 was the only LGI1 interactor identified. The related proteins, ADAM22 and ADAM11, but not ADAM12, bind LGI1. Neither ADAM23 nor ADAM11, nor some forms of ADAM22, contain PDZ-interacting sequences, suggesting PSD-95-independent mechanisms in ADPEAF. Because ADAMs modulate integrins, we examined LGI1 effect on neurite outgrowth. LGI1 increases outgrowth from wild-type but not ADAM23-/- neurons. Furthermore, CA1 pyramidal neurons of ADAM23-/- hippocampi have reduced dendritic arborization. ADAM23-/- mice exhibit spontaneous seizures, while ADAM23+/- mice have decreased seizure thresholds. Thus, LGI1 binding to ADAM23 is necessary to correctly pattern neuronal morphology and altered anatomical patterning contributes to ADPEAF.
Cell adhesion molecules have been implicated as key organizers of synaptic structures, but there is still a need to determine how these molecules facilitate neurotransmitter receptor recruitment to developing synapses. Here, we identify erythrocyte protein band 4.1-like 3 (protein 4.1B) as an intracellular effector molecule of Synaptic Cell Adhesion Molecule 1 (SynCAM1) that is sufficient to recruit NMDA-type receptors (NMDARs) to SynCAM1 adhesion sites in COS7 cells. Protein 4.1B in conjunction with SynCAM1 also increased the frequency of NMDAR-mediated mEPSCs and area of presynaptic contact in an HEK293 cell/ neuron co-culture assay. Studies in cultured hippocampal neurons reveal that manipulation of protein 4.1B expression levels specifically affects NMDAR-mediated activity and localization. Finally, further experimentation in COS7 cells show that SynCAM1 may also interact with protein 4.1N to specifically effect AMPA type receptor (AMPAR) recruitment. Thus, SynCAM1 may recruit both AMPARs and NMDARs by independent mechanisms during synapse formation.
In rodents, the orphan G protein-coupled receptor, Gpr88, is highly expressed in brain regions implicated in the pathophysiology of and is modulated by treatments for schizophrenia. We compared striatal function of Gpr88 knockout mice (Gpr88KOs) to wild-type mice using molecular, neurochemical and behavioral tests. Gpr88KOs lacked expression of Gpr88 in striatum, nucleus accumbens and layer IV of cortex. Gpr88KOs had normal striatal dopamine D2 receptor density and affinity and DARPP-32 expression but Gpr88KOs had higher basal striatal phosphorylated DARPP-32 Thr-34. In vivo microdialysis detected lower basal dopamine in Gpr88KOs while amphetamine-induced dopamine release was normal. Behaviorally, Gpr88KOs demonstrated disrupted prepulse inhibition of startle (PPI) and increased sensitivity to apomorphine-induced climbing and stereotypy (AICS) and amphetamine-stimulated locomotor activity. Antipsychotic administration to Gpr88KOs normalized the PPI deficit and blocked AICS. The modulatory role of Gpr88 in striatal dopamine function suggests it may be a new target for treatments for psychiatric disorders.
Expression of the NMDA receptor (NMDAR) subunit NR3A reaches its highest level in layer V of the developing rodent cortex during the second postnatal week, a peak period of synaptogenesis. Incorporation of NR3A leads to the formation of non-canonical, Mg2+-insensitive NMDARs, but it is not known whether they participate in synaptic transmission and maturation. Here we show that in the second postnatal week, layer V pyramidal neurons in the somatosensory cortex of wild type (WT) mice exhibited evoked excitatory postsynaptic currents (eEPSCs) with 3- to 6-fold lower Mg2+ sensitivity than NR3A knockout (KO) mice and their reversal potential was approximately 2 mV more negative compared to KO mice consistent with decreased P(Ca) of NMDARs. Surprisingly, ablation of NR3A also led to a 20-fold reduction of the ratio of AMPAR- to NMDAR-mediated eEPSC amplitudes in KO mice. Insertion of AMPARs at the synapses of layer V pyramidal neurons appears to be facilitated by the expression of Mg2+-insensitive NMDARs. The data indicate that NR3A plays a significant role in the development of excitatory synapses in layer V of the developing neocortex.
In the postnatal subventricular zone (SVZ) neural stem cells (NSCs) give rise to transit-amplifying precursors (TAPs) expressing high levels of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) that in turn generate neuroblasts. Both TAPs and neuroblasts express distal-less (DLX)2 homeobox transcription factor but the latter proliferate less. Modulation of its expression in vivo has revealed that DLX2 affects both neurogenesis and proliferation in the postnatal SVZ. However, the mechanisms underlying these effects are not clear. To investigate this issue we have here forced the expression of DLX2 in SVZ isolated NSCs growing in defined in vitro conditions. This analysis revealed that DLX2 affects the proliferation of SVZ precursors by regulating two distinct steps of neural lineage progression. Firstly, it promotes the lineage transition from NSCs to TAPs. Secondly it enhances the proliferative response of neuronal progenitors to EGF. Thus DLX2 and EGFR signalling interact at multiple levels to coordinate proliferation in the postnatal SVZ.
The sequential steps of neurogenesis are characterized by highly choreographed changes in transcription factor activity. In contrast to the well-studied mechanisms of transcription factor activation during neurogenesis, much less is understood regarding how such activity is terminated. We previously showed that MTGR1, a member of the MTG family of transcriptional repressors, is strongly induced by a proneural basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor, NEUROG2 in developing nervous system. In this study, we describe a novel feedback regulation of NEUROG2 activity by MTGR1. We show that MTGR1 physically interacts with NEUROG2 and represses transcriptional activity of NEUROG2. MTGR1 also prevents DNA binding of the NEUROG2/E47 complex. In addition, we provide evidence that proper termination of NEUROG2 activity by MTGR1 is necessary for normal progression of neurogenesis in the developing spinal cord. These results highlight the importance of feedback regulation of proneural gene activity in neurodevelopment.
Scientists engaged in drug discovery and development face many critical issues along the road to identifying the best drug candidates to bring forward for testing in patients. In neuroscience, these challenges can involve particularly demanding questions regarding target engagement, the predict ability of endpoints in animal models, new disease model validation, CNS penetration, and the identification of pharmacodynamic markers. For neurological conditions such as Alzheimer's disease, clinical trials of novel drugs that may modify the course of disease, rather than targeting specific symptoms, add extra layers of complexity. Major studies designed to track the course of a disease increasingly depend on noninvasive, translational imaging. In this brief review, we highlight examples of the new wave of neuroimaging studies that engender useful biomarkers of disease for translational research.
Glutamate is the predominant excitatory transmitter used by primary afferent synapses and intrinsic neurons in the spinal cord dorsal horn. Accordingly, ionotropic glutamate receptors mediate basal spinal transmission of sensory, including nociceptive, information that is relayed to supraspinal centers. However, it has become gradually more evident that these receptors are also crucially involved in short- and long-term plasticity of spinal nociceptive transmission, and that such plasticity have an important role in the pain hypersensitivity that may result from tissue or nerve injury. This review will cover recent findings on pre- and postsynaptic regulation of synaptic function by ionotropic glutamate receptors in the dorsal horn and how such mechanisms contribute to acute and chronic pain.
Establishing the temporal and concentration profiles of neurotransmitters during synaptic release is an essential step towards understanding the basic properties of inter-neuronal communication in the central nervous system. A variety of ingenious attempts has been made to gain insights into this process, but the general inaccessibility of central synapses, intrinsic limitations of the techniques used, and natural variety of different synaptic environments have hindered a comprehensive description of this fundamental phenomenon. Here, we describe a number of experimental and theoretical findings that has been instrumental for advancing our knowledge of various features of neurotransmitter release, as well as newly developed tools that could overcome some limits of traditional pharmacological approaches and bring new impetus to the description of the complex mechanisms of synaptic transmission.
Bovine adrenal zona fasciculata (AZF) cells express bTREK-1 K+ channels whose inhibition by cAMP is coupled to membrane depolarization and cortisol secretion through complex signaling mechanisms. cAMP analogs with substitutions in the 6 position of the adenine ring selectively activate cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) but not exchange proteins activated by cAMP (Epacs). In whole-cell patch-clamp recordings from AZF cells, we found that 6-benzoyl-cAMP (6-Bnz-cAMP) and 6-monobutyryl-cAMP potently inhibit bTREK-1 K+ channels, even under conditions in which PKA activity was abolished. Specifically, when applied through the patch electrode, 6-Bnz-cAMP inhibited bTREK-1 with an IC(50) of less than 0.2 microM. Inhibition of bTREK-1 by 6-Bnz-cAMP was not diminished by PKA antagonists, including N-[2-(4-bromocinnamylamino)ethyl]-5-isoquinoline (H-89), adenosine 3'-5'cyclic monophosphothiate, Rp-isomer, protein kinase inhibitor (PKI) (6-22) amide, and myristoylated PKI (14-22), applied alone or in combination, externally and intracellularly through the patch pipette. Under similar conditions, these same antagonists completely blocked PKA activation by 6-Bnz-cAMP. Inhibition of bTREK-1 by 6-Bnz-cAMP was voltage-independent and eliminated in the absence of ATP in the pipette solution. 6-Bnz-cAMP also produced delayed increases in cortisol synthesis and the expression of CYP11a1 mRNA that were only partially blocked by PKA antagonists. These results indicate that 6-Bnz-cAMP and other 6-substituted cAMP analogs can inhibit bTREK-1 K+ channels and stimulate delayed increases in cortisol synthesis by AZF cells through a PKA- and Epac-independent mechanism. They also suggest that adrenocorticotropin and cAMP function in these cells through a third cAMP-dependent protein. Finally, although 6-modified cAMP analogs exhibit high selectivity in activating PKA over Epac, they also may interact with other unidentified proteins expressed by eukaryotic cells.
Glucocorticoids, the most downstream effectors of the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis, are one of main mediators of the stress reaction. Indeed, exposure to high levels of stress-triggered glucocorticoids is detrimental to brain development associated with abnormal behaviors in experimental animals and the risk of psychiatric disorders in humans. Despite the wealth of this knowledge, the cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying the detrimental effects of glucocorticoids on brain development remain unclear. Here, we show that excess glucocorticoids retard the radial migration of post-mitotic neurons during the development of the cerebral cortex, and identify an actin regulatory protein, caldesmon, as the glucocorticoids' main target. The upregulation of caldesmon expression is mediated by glucocorticoid receptor-dependent transcription of the CALD1 gene encoding caldesmon. This upregulated caldesmon negatively controls the function of myosin II, leading to changes in cell shape and migration. The depletion of caldesmon in vivo impairs radial migration. The overexpression of caldesmon also causes delayed radial migration during cortical development, mimicking the excessive glucocorticoid-induced retardation of radial migration. We conclude that an appropriate range of caldesmon expression is critical for radial migration, and that its overexpression induced by excess glucocorticoid retards radial migration during cortical development. Thus, this study provides a novel insight into the underlying mechanism of glucocorticoid-related neurodevelopmental disorders.
The natural tropism of most viral vectors, including adeno-associated viral (AAV) vectors, leads to predominant transduction of neurons and epithelia within the central nervous system (CNS) and retina. Despite the clinical relevance of glia for homeostasis in neural tissue, and as causal contributors in genetic disorders such as Alzheimer's and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, efforts to develop more efficient gene delivery vectors for glia have met with limited success. Recently, viral vector engineering involving high-throughput random diversification and selection has enabled the rapid creation of AAV vectors with valuable new gene delivery properties. We have engineered novel AAV variants capable of efficient glia transduction by employing directed evolution with a panel of four distinct AAV libraries, including a new semi-random peptide replacement strategy. These variants transduced both human and rat astrocytes in vitro up to 15-fold higher than their parent serotypes, and injection into the rat striatum yielded astrocyte transduction levels up to 16% of the total transduced cell population, despite the human astrocyte selection platform. Furthermore, one variant exhibited a substantial shift in tropism toward Mller glia within the retina, further highlighting the general utility of these variants for efficient glia transduction in multiple species within the CNS and retina.
Many axonal growth inhibitors that contribute to the usual failure of axon regeneration in the central nervous system (CNS) exert their effects via the RhoA-Rho kinase (ROCK) signal pathway. In this study, we investigated whether lentiviral vector (LV)-mediated neuron-specific expression of a dominant negative mutant of ROCK (DNROCK) could promote axon outgrowth in vitro and in vivo. Dissociated adult rat dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons were seeded on solubilized myelin proteins and transduced with either LV/DNROCK or LV/green fluorescent protein (GFP). DNROCK-expressing neurons were shown to have a greater chance of generating neurites and a longer mean length of neurite than GFP-expressing neurons. In the in vivo studies, lentiviruses were injected into the adult rat red nucleus followed by unilateral rubrospinal tract (RST) transection at the fourth cervical level. Rats in the DNROCK group showed better functional recovery in the affected hindlimbs and forelimbs than those in the GFP group. Examination of the spinal cord sections revealed more rubrospinal axonal profiles growing to the spinal cord caudal to the lesion in the DNROCK group than in the GFP group. These results indicate that blocking the RhoA-ROCK signal pathway by expressing DNROCK can enhance regenerative axonal sprouting and lead to partial recovery of limb function.
The relationship between myasthenia gravis (MG) and cognitive dysfunction has been a matter of debate because of the possible association between peripheral and central nervous system (CNS) cholinergic dysfunction. The aim of this study was to evaluate cognitive function in a series of elderly MG patients in comparison to matched controls. In all, 100 consecutive MG patients aged over 60 years and 31 matched control subjects underwent an extensive neuropsychological test battery to explore multiple cognitive domains. There were no differences in cognitive performances between patients and controls. Severe MG was associated with impaired attention, constructional praxis, and frontal control. Logistic regression analysis showed that advanced age, diabetes, and thyroid dysfunction were independently associated with cognitive impairment. This study does not support the hypothesis of CNS cholinergic involvement in MG. The impairments of attention, memory, and control tasks in MG are related to general visual motor slowness and to the concomitant presence of other diseases.
Previous observations suggest that elevated high-pass filter settings (1,600-3,200 HZ) can reveal greater motor unit action potential (MUAP) complexity (turns). We assessed the effect of high-pass filter settings (500, 1,000, 2,000 HZ) on MUAP metrics. MUAPs were recorded with a concentric needle and initially extracted by a decomposition software algorithm at 10 HZ-10 kHZ and further filtered offline at 500, 1,000, and 2,000 HZ. When reanalyzed by the decomposition software there were marked reductions in peak-peak amplitude, area, area-to-amplitude ratio, and duration at the 500 HZ filter with lesser subsequent reductions at higher filter settings. In contrast, turn and phase counts did not change significantly. Individual MUAPs tracked across filter settings showed rare increases in turn count at the 500 HZ setting but a subsequent decrease in counts with higher filter settings. We conclude that the routine use of elevated high-pass filters, as in quantitative EMG analysis, does not enhance turn count.


Huntington's disease is caused by an expanded CAG repeat in the gene encoding huntingtin (HTT), resulting in loss of striatal and cortical neurons. Given that the gene product is widely expressed, it remains unclear why neurons are selectively targeted. Here we show the relationship between synaptic and extrasynaptic activity, inclusion formation of mutant huntingtin protein (mtHtt) and neuronal survival. Synaptic N-methyl-D-aspartate-type glutamate receptor (NMDAR) activity induces mtHtt inclusions via a T complex-1 (TCP-1) ring complex (TRiC)-dependent mechanism, rendering neurons more resistant to mtHtt-mediated cell death. In contrast, stimulation of extrasynaptic NMDARs increases the vulnerability of mtHtt-containing neurons to cell death by impairing the neuroprotective cyclic AMP response element-binding protein (CREB)-peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma coactivator-1alpha (PGC-1alpha) cascade and increasing the level of the small guanine nucleotide-binding protein Rhes, which is known to sumoylate and disaggregate mtHtt. Treatment of transgenic mice expressing a yeast artificial chromosome containing 128 CAG repeats (YAC128) with low-dose memantine blocks extrasynaptic (but not synaptic) NMDARs and ameliorates neuropathological and behavioral manifestations. By contrast, high-dose memantine, which blocks both extrasynaptic and synaptic NMDAR activity, decreases neuronal inclusions and worsens these outcomes. Our findings offer a rational therapeutic approach for protecting susceptible neurons in Huntington's disease.

Two improved genetically encoded calcium indicators-based on structure-guided sensor design or on precise subcellular targeting to presynaptic boutons-allow single spikes to be detected in genetically defined populations of neurons and synapses in vivo.

During the development of peripheral ganglia, 50% of the neurons that are generated undergo apoptosis. How the massive numbers of corpses are removed is unknown. We found that satellite glial cell precursors are the primary phagocytic cells for apoptotic corpse removal in developing mouse dorsal root ganglia (DRG). Confocal and electron microscopic analysis revealed that glial precursors, rather than macrophages, were responsible for clearing most of the dead DRG neurons. Moreover, we identified Jedi-1, an engulfment receptor, and MEGF10, a purported engulfment receptor, as homologs of the invertebrate engulfment receptors Draper and CED-1 expressed in the glial precursor cells. Expression of Jedi-1 or MEGF10 in fibroblasts facilitated binding to dead neurons, and knocking down either protein in glial cells or overexpressing truncated forms lacking the intracellular domain inhibited engulfment of apoptotic neurons. Together, these results suggest a cellular and molecular mechanism by which neuronal corpses are culled during DRG development.
A network of cortical brain regions, including the insula and anterior cingulate cortex (ACC), has been proposed as the critical and sole substrate for interoceptive awareness. Combining lesion and pharmacological approaches in humans, we found that the insula and ACC were not critical for awareness of heartbeat sensations. Instead, this awareness was mediated by both somatosensory afferents from the skin and a network that included the insula and ACC. Together, these pathways enable the core human experience of the cardiovascular state of the body.
PURPOSE: Estimates of insomnia in breast cancer patients are high, with reports of poor sleep lasting years after completion of cancer treatment. This randomized controlled crossover pilot study looked at the effects of individual cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia (IND-CBT-I) on sleep in breast cancer survivors. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Twenty-one participants were randomly assigned to either a treatment group (six weekly IND-CBT-I sessions followed by six weeks of follow up) or a delayed treatment control group (no treatment for six weeks followed by six weekly IND-CBT-I sessions). Of these, 14 participants completed the pilot study (six in the treatment group and eight in the delayed treatment control group). RESULTS: Self-rated insomnia was significantly improved in the treatment group compared to the waiting period in the delayed treatment control group. The pooled pre-post-IND-CBT-I analyses revealed improvements in self-rated insomnia, sleep quality, and objective measures of sleep. CONCLUSIONS: These preliminary results suggest that IND-CBT-I is appropriate for improving sleep in breast cancer survivors. Individual therapy in a clinic or private practice may be a more practical option for this population as it is more easily accessed and readily available in an outpatient setting.
A fundamental property of most animals is the ability to see whether an object is approaching on a direct collision course and, if so, when it will collide. Using high-density electroencephalography in 5- to 11-month-old infants and a looming stimulus approaching under three different accelerations, we investigated how the young human nervous system extracts and processes information for impending collision. Here, we show that infants' looming related brain activity is characterised by theta oscillations. Source analyses reveal clear localised activity in the visual cortex. Analysing the temporal dynamics of the source waveform, we provide evidence that the temporal structure of different looming stimuli is sustained during processing in the more mature infant brain, providing infants with increasingly veridical time-to-collision information about looming danger as they grow older and become more mobile.
Short-term synaptic plasticity is modulated by long-term synaptic changes. There is, however, no general agreement on the computational role of this interaction. Here, we derive a learning rule for the release probability and the maximal synaptic conductance in a circuit model with combined recurrent and feedforward connections that allows learning to discriminate among natural inputs. Short-term synaptic plasticity thereby provides a nonlinear expansion of the input space of a linear classifier, whereas the random recurrent network serves to decorrelate the expanded input space. Computer simulations reveal that the twofold increase in the number of input dimensions through short-term synaptic plasticity improves the performance of a standard perceptron up to 100%. The distributions of release probabilities and maximal synaptic conductances at the capacity limit strongly depend on the balance between excitation and inhibition. The model also suggests a new computational interpretation of spikes evoked by stimuli outside the classical receptive field. These neuronal activities may reflect decorrelation of the expanded stimulus space by intracortical synaptic connections.
Reduced expression of IGF-1R increases lifespan and resistance to oxidative stress in the mouse, raising the possibility that this also confers relative protection against the pro-parkinsonian neurotoxin MPTP, known to involve an oxidative stress component. We used heterozygous IGF-1R(+/-) mice and challenged them with MPTP. Interestingly, MPTP induced more severe lesions of dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra, in IGF-1R(+/-) mice than in wild-type animals. Using electron spin resonance, we found that free radicals were decreased in IGF-1R(+/-) mice in comparison with controls, both before and after MPTP exposure, suggesting that the increased vulnerability of dopamine neurons is not caused by oxidative stress. Importantly, we showed that IGF-1R(+/-) mice display a dramatically increased neuro-inflammatory response to MPTP that may ground the observed increase in neuronal death. Microarray analysis revealed that oxidative stress-associated genes, but also several anti-inflammatory signaling pathways were downregulated under control conditions in IGF-1R(+/-) mice compared to WT. Collectively, these data indicate that IGF signaling can reduce neuro-inflammation dependent sensitivity of neurons to MPTP.
Overproduction of amyloid precursor protein (APP) and beta-amyloid likely contribute to neurodegeneration seen in Alzheimer's disease (AD). APP mRNA contains several, 3'-untranslated region (UTR), cis-acting regulatory elements. A 52 base element (52sce), immediately downstream from the stop codon, has been previously shown to complex with uncharacterized cytoplasmic proteins. In this study, we purify and identify six proteins that specifically bind to the 52sce, and show that these proteins interact with each other and with APP mRNA in intact human neuroblastoma cells. We also present evidence that at least one of these proteins, the DEAD-box helicase rck/p54, is involved in post-transcriptional regulation, as its overexpression in cultured cells results in elevated levels of APP mRNA and protein. These findings suggest a novel mechanism for post-transcriptional regulation of APP mRNA.
Semantic dementia (SD) is a syndrome of progressive impairment in semantic memory. Fifty-eight brain regions were measured in seven post mortem SD cases, ten normal controls and two disease controls (diagnosis frontotemporal dementia and motor neuron disease, FTD-MND). Manual segmentation of the whole brain has not previously been undertaken in a series of SD cases, either post mortem or during life. Widespread volume loss relative to controls was found in SD, with anterior temporal lobe regions bearing the brunt (&gt;60% atrophy of temporopolar and perirhinal cortices bilaterally). Comparison of regional volumes in SD and FTD-MND found greater atrophy in SD only in temporopolar and perirhinal volumes. The sole region showing atrophy relative to controls in FTD-MND but not SD was motor cortex. Posterior temporal and frontal regions were not consistently affected and no significant asymmetry of atrophy was found. In summary, whole-brain regional evaluation in SD, in comparison with normal controls and FTD-MND, found anterior temporal atrophy encompassing the perirhinal cortex with relative sparing of adjacent posterior temporal regions.
Parkin is implicated in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease. Furthermore, parkin targets misfolded proteins for degradation and protects cells against various forms of cellular stress, including unfolded-protein and oxidative stress. This points towards a protective role of parkin in neurological disorders in which these stressors are implicated, including Alzheimer's disease (AD) and multiple sclerosis (MS). Here, we assessed parkin distribution in AD and MS brain tissue using immunohistochemistry. In AD brains, parkin colocalized with classic senile plaques and amyloid-laden vessels as well as astrocytes associated with both lesions. Similarly, we observed enhanced astrocytic parkin immunoreactivity in MS lesions, particularly in inflammatory lesions. Furthermore, parkin mRNA expression was increased in an astrocytoma cell line after free radical exposure. Our data indicate that parkin is upregulated in AD and MS brain tissue and might represent a defense mechanism to counteract stress-induced damage in AD and MS pathogenesis.
We describe the investigation of speech automatisms in a man with progressive nonfluent aphasia and apraxias. Occurrence of the automatisms yes and right, were analysed across a range of speech tasks varying in length, propositionality, lexical and articulatory complexity, whether tasks engaged internal generation or external triggering and articulatory distortions, and while completing pantomimes/gestures. No differences were found in occurrence across most tasks but there was a significant interaction between automatism production and apraxic speech errors and during limb praxic tasks, suggesting that production of the automatism was unrelated to linguistic or lexical variables, but was related to the presence of speech apraxia coupled with disinhibition.
We studied the involvement of the parietal cortex in interpersonal body representation in a left parietal stroke patient. We used tasks assessing different types of body representations and localization of object parts. The patient performed normally on all tasks of body knowledge. However, she was unable to locate body parts on another person or on body representations. In contrast, she pointed correctly to the same body parts on herself or object representations. The data support the important role of the left parietal cortex in the transformation of intrinsic spatial coding of body parts localization in extrinsic body part coordinates.
Plasma beta-amyloid protein (Abeta) isoforms are considered potential biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease (AD) and dementia. The relation between plasma and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) levels of Abeta isoforms remains unclear. In order to identify possible correlations between Abeta levels in plasma and CSF we determined Abeta levels in time-linked plasma and CSF samples. Abeta concentrations in plasma (Abeta(1-42) and Abeta(N-42)) and CSF (Abeta(1-42)) samples from 49 AD patients, 47 non-Alzheimer's disease dementia (NONAD) patients, 39 MCI patients and 29 controls were determined using a multi-parameter fluorimetric bead-based immunoassay using xMAP((R)) technology (for plasma) and a conventional single-parameter ELISA (for CSF). Plasma Abeta(1-42) concentrations did not correlate with CSF Abeta(1-42) concentrations in the total study population, or in the different diagnostic groups. No correlations between plasma Abeta(N-42) and CSF Abeta(1-42) levels were found either. The CSF/serum albumin index did not show any significant differences between AD, NONAD, MCI and controls. These results suggest that the Abeta levels in plasma are independent of the Abeta levels in CSF both in dementia and controls. The fact that CSF and plasma Abeta do not correlate in patients as well as controls and no significant differences in plasma Abeta(1-42) or Abeta(N-42) between patients and controls can be detected hampers the diagnostic utility of the plasma Abeta levels as biomarkers for dementia.
One of the most consistent findings in schizophrenia is the decreased expression of the GABA synthesizing enzymes GAD(67) and GAD(65) in specific interneuron populations. This dysfunction is observed in distributed brain regions including the prefrontal cortex, hippocampus, and cerebellum. In an effort to understand the mechanisms for this GABA deficit, we investigated the effect of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) antagonist phencyclidine (PCP), which elicits schizophrenia-like symptoms in both humans and animal models, in a chronic, low-dose exposure paradigm. Adult rats were given PCP at a dose of 2.58 mg/kg/day i.p. for a month, after which levels of various GABAergic cell mRNAs and other neuromodulators were examined in the cerebellum by qRT-PCR. Administration of PCP decreased the expression of GAD(67), GAD(65), and the presynaptic GABA transporter GAT-1, and increased GABA(A) receptor subunits similar to those seen in patients with schizophrenia. Additionally, we found that the mRNA levels of two Golgi cell selective NMDAR subunits, NR2B and NR2D, were decreased in PCP-treated rats. Furthermore, we localized the deficits in GAD(67) expression solely to these interneurons. Slice electrophysiological studies showed that spontaneous firing of Golgi cells was reduced by acute exposure to low-dose PCP, suggesting that these neurons are particularly vulnerable to NMDA receptor antagonism. In conclusion, our results demonstrate that chronic exposure to low levels of PCP in rats mimics the GABAergic alterations reported in the cerebellum of patients with schizophrenia (Bullock et al., 2008. Am. J. Psychiatry 165, 1594-1603), further supporting the validity of this animal model.
Doxorubicin, an approved drug for cancer therapy, was recently found to be a potent agent to augment adeno-associated virus (AAV)-mediated transgene expression, especially in airway cells. Recombinant AAV type 2 (rAAV-2) has been shown to preferentially transduce neural tissues and is considered as the primary viral vector for the treatments of various neurodegenerative diseases including Parkinson's disease (PD). The goal of this study is to investigate whether doxorubicin can be applied to increase the efficacy of rAAV-2 transduction in the central nervous system. We co-administrated doxorubicin with AV2.luc/EGFP into the rat striatum, a preferred target site for PD gene therapy, and found that doxorubicin augmented rAAV-2 transduction dramatically without significant cytotoxicity and alteration of rAAV-2 tropism. By evaluating the effects of doxorubicin on rAAV-2 transduction in PC12 and MN9D neuronal cells, we found that doxorubicin appeared to promote the nuclear accumulation of rAAV-2, but did not affect viral binding or uptake. Our data suggested that doxorubicin might play an important role in modulating rAAV-2 intracellular trafficking in neuron-like cells. Our study also provided the initial in vivo evidence to facilitate AAV-mediated gene expression in the midbrain with the treatment of doxorubicin.
Alzheimers disease is characterised by regional neuronal degeneration, synaptic loss, and the progressive deposition of the 4 kDa -amyloid peptide (A) in senile plaques and accumulation of tau protein as neurofibrillary tangles. A derives from the larger precursor molecule, amyloid precursor protein (APP) by proteolytic processing via - and -secretases. While APP expression is well documented in neurons and astrocytes, the case for oligodendrocytes is less clear. The latter cell type is reported to express different isoforms of APP, and we have confirmed this observation by immunocytochemistry in cultures of differentiated rat cortical oligodendrocytes. Moreover, by means of a sensitive electrochemiluminescent immunoassay employing A C-terminal specific antibodies, mature oligodendrocytes are shown to secrete the 40 and 42 amino acid A species (A40 and A42). Secretion of A peptides was reduced by incubating oligodendrocytes with - and -secretase inhibitors, or a -secretase inhibitor. Disturbances of APP processing and/ or synthesis in oligodendrocytes may account for some myelin disorders observed in Alzheimer's disease and other senile dementias.
Several studies have linked estrogens with sphingosine kinase (SphK) activity, enzyme responsible of sphingosine-1-phosphate synthesis (S-1P), however their possible interaction in the nervous system is not documented yet. In the present study, we developed a glutamate toxicity model in SH-SY5Y cells to evaluate the possible effect of the inhibition of SphK activity on the protective capability of 17-estradiol (E2). Glutamate induced cytoskeletal actin changes associated to cytotoxic stress, significant increase of apoptotic-like nuclear fragmentation, Tau hyperphosphorylation and increase of p25/p35 cleavage. These effects were prevented by E2 pre-treatment during 24 h. Although the inhibition of SphK did not block this protective effect, significantly increased Tau hyperphosphorylation by glutamate, in a way that was not reverted by E2. Our results suggest that the decrease of glutamate-induced Tau hyperphosphorylation by 17-estradiol requires SphK.
Colorectal physiology is complex and involves programmed, coordinated interaction between muscular and neuronal elements. Whilst a detailed understanding remains elusive, novel information has emerged from recent basic science and human clinical studies concerning normal sensorimotor mechanisms and the organization and function of the key elements involved in the control of motility. This chapter summarizes these observations to provide a contemporary review of the neuroanatomy and physiology of colorectal function and defaecation.
Pancreatic polypeptides such as neuropeptide Y (NPY) and peptide YY (PYY) exert profound, vagally mediated effects on gastrointestinal (GI) motility. Vagal efferent outflow to the GI tract is determined principally by tonic GABAergic synaptic inputs onto dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus (DMV) neurons, yet neither peptide modulates GABAergic transmission. We showed recently that opioid peptides appear similarly ineffective because of the low resting cAMP levels. Using whole cell recordings from identified DMV neurons, we aimed to correlate the influence of brainstem cAMP levels with the ability of pancreatic polypeptides to modulate GABAergic synaptic transmission. Neither NPY, PYY, nor the Y1 or Y2 receptor selective agonists [Leu,Pro]NPY or NPY(3-36) respectively, inhibited evoked inhibitory postsynaptic current (eIPSC) amplitude unless cAMP levels were elevated by forskolin or 8-bromo-cAMP, by exposure to adenylate cyclase-coupled modulators such as cholecystokinin octapeptide (sulfated) (CCK-8s) or thyrotropin releasing hormone (TRH), or by vagal deafferentation. The inhibition of eIPSC amplitude by [Leu,Pro]NPY or NPY(3-36) was stable for approximately 30 min following the initial increase in cAMP levels. Thereafter, the inhibition declined gradually until the agonists were again ineffective after 60 min. Analysis of spontaneous and miniature currents revealed that such inhibitory effects were due to actions at presynaptic Y1 and Y2 receptors. These results suggest that, similar to opioid peptides, the effects of pancreatic polypeptides on GABAergic transmission depend upon the levels of cAMP within gastric inhibitory vagal circuits.
Fatigue is a common debilitating symptom in patients with primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC). The mechanism of fatigue is still poorly understood. However, it has been reported that levels of the steroid dehydroepiandrosterone sulphate (DHEAS) are reduced in plasma of patients with PBC, and substitutive therapy has been suggested to improve fatigue symptoms experienced during the course of this disease. In this study, we tested the effect of DHEAS on whole body fatigue in rats following bile duct ligation (BDL). Fatigue was estimated by the time spent on an electrified grid as a result of falling off a treadmill and by performance of rats on an infrared beam monitor which allows the assessment of travelled distance and stereotypic movement activities. On day 5 after BDL surgery, cholestatic rats exhibited increased whole body fatigue as reflected by significantly increased time spent on the electrified grid, reduced travelled distance and reduced stereotypic movements. Administration of 5 mg kg(-1) of DHEAS to BDL rats for three consecutive days significantly normalized their behaviour. Fatigue scores were also found to be reduced in cirrhotic rats 4 weeks after BDL surgery, and DHEAS treatment for 3 days reduced fatigue scores at this stage. Dehydroepiandrosterone sulphate treatment was sufficient to increase brain levels of DHEAS in the BDL rats in a manner that is significantly and highly correlated with those of plasma DHEAS and brain dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA). Substitutive therapies with DHEAS or DHEA could represent novel approaches in the management of fatigue due to cholestasis-induced liver failure.
Impaired gastric slow waves, frequent gastrointestinal (GI) symptoms and altered GI peptides have been reported in Scleroderma (SSc) patients. The aim of this study was to investigate the associations among these three important components in GI dysmotility. Seventeen fasted SSc patients underwent four channel surface electrogastrography, measuring % of normal gastric slow waves or dysrhythmia. Patients completed a questionnaire designed by us to assess demographics, upper and lower GI symptoms (symptom presence, frequency and impact on quality of life, QOL), by YES/NO, Likert Scales and Visual Analogue Scales 1-100 mm (called GI Dysmotility Questionnaire, GIDQ) and health-related QOL by SF-36. Fasting plasma vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) and motilin levels were measured by peptide immunoassays. There were significant correlations between percentages of gastric dysrhythmias (bradygastria or arrhythmia) and a number of major GI symptoms such as nausea, abdominal bloating and pain. The plasma level of VIP was correlated positively with % dysrhythmia but negatively with % normal slow waves. Motilin was positively correlated with slow wave coupling (coordination). No major differences were noted in the measured peptides or gastric slow waves between limited SSc and diffuse SSc. Correlations were noted between SF-36 domain scores and our GIDQ scores. In SSc patients, gastric dysrhythmias are correlated with certain GI symptoms. Correlations are also noted between plasma VIP/Motilin levels and gastric slow waves. Thus in SSc, gastric dysrhythmias may be predictive of development of certain dyspeptic symptoms. Plasma VIP may be involved in the development of dysrhythmias.
Tensor-based morphometry (TBM) is a powerful method to map the 3D profile of brain degeneration in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and mild cognitive impairment (MCI). We optimized a TBM-based image analysis method to determine what methodological factors, and which image-derived measures, maximize statistical power to track brain change. 3D maps, tracking rates of structural atrophy over time, were created from 1030 longitudinal brain MRI scans (1-year follow-up) of 104 AD patients (age: 75.7+/-7.2 years; MMSE: 23.3+/-1.8, at baseline), 254 amnestic MCI subjects (75.0+/-7.2 years; 27.0+/-1.8), and 157 healthy elderly subjects (75.9+/-5.1 years; 29.1+/-1.0), as part of the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI). To determine which TBM designs gave greatest statistical power, we compared different linear and nonlinear registration parameters (including different regularization functions), and different numerical summary measures derived from the maps. Detection power was greatly enhanced by summarizing changes in a statistically-defined region-of-interest (ROI) derived from an independent training sample of 22 AD patients. Effect sizes were compared using cumulative distribution function (CDF) plots and false discovery rate methods. In power analyses, the best method required only 48 AD and 88 MCI subjects to give 80% power to detect a 25% reduction in the mean annual change using a two-sided test (at alpha=0.05). This is a drastic sample size reduction relative to using clinical scores as outcome measures (619 AD/6797 MCI for the ADAS-Cog, and 408 AD/796 MCI for the Clinical Dementia Rating sum-of-boxes scores). TBM offers high statistical power to track brain changes in large, multi-site neuroimaging studies and clinical trials of AD.
A fundamental, yet rarely tested premise of developmental cognitive neuroscience is that changes in brain activity and improvements in behavioral control across adolescent development are related to brain maturational factors that shape a more efficient, highly-interconnected brain in adulthood. We present the first multimodal neuroimaging study to empirically demonstrate that maturation of executive cognitive ability is directly associated with the relationship of white matter development and age-related changes in neural network functional integration. In this study, we identified specific white matter regions whose maturation across adolescence appears to reduce reliance on local processing in brain regions recruited for conscious, deliberate cognitive control in favor of a more widely distributed profile of functionally-integrated brain activity. Greater white matter coherence with age was associated with both increases and decreases in functional connectivity within task-engaged functional circuits. Importantly, these associations between white matter development and brain system functional integration were related to behavioral performance on tests of response inhibition, demonstrating their importance in the maturation of optimal cognitive control.

Previously described neurologic damage induced by immunosuppressive treatments includes transient or reversible central nervous system involvement. We describe a 57-year-old man who underwent liver transplantation and was started on immunosuppressive therapy with tacrolimus (FK506). Six months later, he started complaining of a progressive motor and sensory impairment of the left side, together with cognitive impairment. Brain MRI showed an enlarging lesion of the white matter with peripheral contrast enhancement. PET study indicated severe hypometabolism in the right hemisphere and spectroscopic MRI showed a peak of choline and relative reduction of other metabolites. Findings of CSF examinations and cultures, serology, and molecular techniques were normal. Tacrolimus treatment was stopped. A cerebral biopsy of the lesion showed a sub acute necrotizing process. In the following months, cognitive status of the patient tended to improve although he remained hemiplegic, while serial MRI confirmed the tendency to the recovery of the lesion that was still present 1 year after. The present observation describes a progressive encephalopathy associated with immune suppression with an unusual feature and permanent brain damage.
An 18-year-old man with progressive paraparesis, thermal hypoesthesia, sweating abnormalities, bladder dysfunction, severe orthostatic hypotension, bilateral Babinski sign, underwent a brain MRI scan that showed downward displacement of cerebellar tonsils through the foramen magnum, consistent with Chiari I malformation, compression of the brainstem-spinal cord junction, and C1-D11 syringomyelia (6.5 mm diameter at C2 level) consistent with Chiari I syndrome. Suboccipital craniectomy and duraplasty were performed. A C2 partial laminectomy and ablation of posterior arch of the atlas was performed. MRI scans 4 days and 1 month after surgery showed a dramatic syringomyelia reabsorption (2.5 and 1 mm, respectively) associated with complete clinical recovery.
Gait disturbances are frequent in Parkinson's disease (PD) and are associated with increased energy expenditure during walking. This study evaluated whether the effects of treadmill training are associated with an improvement of walking economy. Ten patients with idiopathic PD underwent treadmill training (30 min, three times a week for 4 weeks). Walking performance (Tauimed Up and Go, 6-min and 10-m walking tests) and metabolic function (oxygen uptake, heart and respiratory rate) were evaluated before training, at the end of treatment and after 30 days with two different graded exercises (treadmill and cycloergometer). Training significantly improved walking performance. Oxygen uptake, and heart and respiratory rates were significantly decreased only during graded exercise on the treadmill, but not on the cycloergometer. Treadmill training reduces energy expenditure during walking in PD, but the improvements of metabolic walking economy are associated with the specifically trained motor activity.
Hyperglycemic status may be rarely complicated by Epilepsia partialis continua (EPC) that usually responds to metabolic normalization. Anti-glutamic acid decarboxylase antibodies (GAD-Ab) play a pivotal role in the autoimmune process that leads to clinical onset of type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM). GAD-Ab have been recently reported in association with rare forms of refractory epilepsy, with or without association to T1DM. Here we describe a young patient who developed EPC five months after T1DM onset; GAD-Ab were detected in his cerebrospinal fluid with evidence of oligoclonal bands. His epileptic disorder evolved over time into drug-resistant epilepsy with continuous spike-waves during slow sleep and severe behavioral impairment. The role of both metabolic imbalance and GAD autoimmunity is discussed.

Mitochondrial NeuroGastroIntestinal Encephalomyopathy (MNGIE) is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by severe gastrointestinal dysmotility, cachexia, peripheral neuropathy, ptosis, ophthalmoplegia, and leukoencephalopathy with early onset and severe prognosis. Mutations in the TYMP/ECGF1 gene cause a loss of thymidine phosphorylase catalytic activity, disrupting the homeostasis of intramitochondrial nucleotide pool. We report a woman with a very late onset of MNGIE, lacking peripheral neuropathy. Thymidine phosphorylase activity was markedly reduced in cultured fibroblasts, but only mildly reduced in buffy coat, where the defect is usually detected, and plasma thymidine was mildly increased compared to typical MNGIE patients. TYMP/ECGF1 analysis detected two heterozygous mutations, including a novel missense mutation. These findings indicate that a partial loss of thymidine phosphorylase activity may induce a late-onset and incomplete MNGIE phenotype.
A Saudi Arabian family presented with adult onset autosomal dominant progressive external ophthalmoplegia (adPEO) complicated by late onset reversible failure of the CNS, respiratory, hepatic, and endocrine systems. Clinical findings were suggestive of mitochondrial dysfunction and multiple mitochondrial DNA deletions were demonstrated on long range and real time polymerase chain reaction assays but not on Southern blotting. The disorder is caused by a novel heterozygous PEO1 mutation predicting a Leu360Gly substitution in the twinkle protein. The peculiar clinical presentation expands the variable phenotype observed in adPEO and Twinkle gene mutations.
Weakness of ankle dorsiflexion is the cardinal manifestation of CMT. We investigated if a 12-week progressive resistance dorsiflexion strengthening program was feasible, safe and beneficial in a 15-year-old girl with an axonal form of CMT. Training load was based on a dose-escalating percentage of one-repetition maximum, completed on three non-consecutive days each week. Outcomes included dynamometric foot strength, motor function and instrumented walking ability. At 12-weeks, dorsiflexion strength improved 56-72% and plantarflexion strength by 15-20%. Standing long jump increased by 16%, while balance and endurance did not. Walking ability improved for speed, cadence, step time and stride length. Compliance was high and there were no adverse events. This case suggests progressive strength training might be a feasible intervention to help foot weakness and disability in childhood CMT.
We report a case of a 78-year-old woman presenting with progressive proximal muscle weakness mainly to lower limbs and myopathic EMG associated with intravascular large B-cell lymphoma. Muscle biopsy showed myopathic changes, intravascular large B-cell lymphoma but no inflammation or fibre necrosis; the patient's serum cross-reacted with an unidentified nuclear antigen of approximately 45 kDa present in muscle and lymphoma cells. Our case illustrates a myopathy associated with intravascular large B-cell lymphoma probably mediated by antibodies cross-reacting with a nuclear protein expressed by neoplastic cells and normal muscle. The nature of this nuclear antigen remains unidentified.
Although substantial evidence indicates that the progression of pathological changes of the neuronal cytoskeleton is crucial in determining the severity of dementia in Alzheimer's disease (AD), the exact causes and evolution of these changes, the initial site at which they begin, and the neuronal susceptibility levels for their development are poorly understood. The current clinical criteria for diagnosis of AD are focused mostly on cognitive deficits produced by dysfunction of hippocampal and high-order neocortical areas, whereas noncognitive, behavioural and psychological symptoms of dementia such as disturbances in mood, emotion, appetite, and wake-sleep cycle, confusion, agitation and depression have been less considered. The early occurrence of these symptoms suggests brainstem involvement, and more specifically of the serotonergic nuclei. In spite of the fact that the Braak and Braak staging system and National Institutes of Aging - Reagan Institute (NIA-RI) criteria do not include their evaluation, several recent reports drew attention to the possibility of selective and early involvement of raphe nuclei, particularly the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN), in the pathogenesis of AD. Based on these findings of differential susceptibility and anatomical connectivity, a novel pathogenetic scheme of AD progression was proposed. Although the precise mechanisms of neurofibrillary degeneration still await elucidation, we speculated that cumulative oxidative damage may be the main cause of DRN alterations, as the age is the main risk factor for sporadic AD. Within such a framework, beta-amyloid production is considered only as one of the factors (although a significant one in familial cases) that promotes molecular series of events underlying AD-related neuropathological changes.

The transactive response (TAR) DNA binding protein 43 (TDP-43) has been recently implicated as a major component of ubiquitinated inclusions in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS, motor neuron disease: MND) and ALS-related disorders. In this study, we examined abnormal TDP-43 pathology in 13 sporadic ALS (SALS), six familial ALS (FALS) with and without Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD1) mutations (SOD1-FALS and non-SOD1-FALS), Guam ALS, two frontotemporal lobar degeneration with MND/ALS (FTLD-MND/ALS), one FTLD with ubiquitin-only-immunoreactive inclusions (FTLD-U) and two progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP). Sections from the spinal cord were processed for immunohistochemistry using antibodies against TDP-43, ubiquitin, p62, cystatin C, phosphorylated tau protein (P-tau; AT8), alpha-synuclein and phosphorylated neurofilament protein (P-NF). In 12 out of 13 SALS and both Guam ALS cases ubiquitin and p62-immunoreactive (IR) neuronal inclusions co-localized with TDP-43. In three out of four SOD1-FALS and one of two non-SOD1-FALS cases, TDP-43-IR inclusions were absent despite the presence of p62 and/or ubiquitin-IR inclusions. However, a single TDP-43-IR neuronal inclusion co-localized with p62 and ubiquitin in one SOD1-FALS (His48Gln) case. Except for one neuron in a Guam case, all TDP-43-IR neuronal inclusions were negative for P-tau (AT8). TDP-43-IR glial inclusions and neurites were also demonstrated. The TDP-43 is a consistent component of the ubiquitinated inclusions in SALS and Guam ALS, but TDP-43-IR inclusions are absent or scarce in SOD1-FALS.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY), a classic neuronal regulator of energy homeostasis, is now also known to be involved in the control of bone homeostasis. Of the five known Y receptors through which the NPY family of ligands signals, the Y1 and Y2 receptors have so far been implicated in the control of osteoblast activity and thus bone formation. Analysis of brain specific NPY overexpressing and Y receptor knockout models has revealed a powerful anabolic pathway likely involving hypothalamic Y2 receptors and osteoblastic Y1 receptors. Furthering our understanding of the mechanisms underlying the involvement of the NPY system in the control of bone could lead to the development of therapies to improve bone mass in patients with diseases such as osteoporosis.
Antagonists of the NOP receptor have antidepressant effects in rodent models, suggesting that the N/OFQ-NOP system may play an important role in affective disorders. Furthermore, multiple lines of experimental evidence link N/OFQ neurotransmission with physiological and behavioral responses to stress. One possibility is that disregulated expression of the N/OFQ peptide neurotransmitter and/or the NOP receptor may participate in the etiology of stress-induced psychopathology. In the present set of experiments, we compared gene expression for prepro-N/OFQ and NOP receptor in groups of rats that were exposed to differing regimens of social defeat stress. Male Long-Evans rats were exposed to no social defeat, a single, acute social defeat or to repeated social defeats with or without an acute defeat on the final day. In situ hybridization was conducted with (35)S-labelled riboprobes aimed at prepro-N/OFQ mRNA or NOP receptor mRNA. Expression was analyzed by quantification of optical density in limbic and extra-limbic forebrain regions. There were no statistically significant changes in prepro-N/OFQ mRNA expression after stress exposure in any of the brain regions analyzed. However, the rats that were exposed to acute social defeat displayed elevations in NOP receptor mRNA expression in the central and basomedial nuclei of the amygdala and in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus. Additionally, the rats that were acutely stressed after a history of repeated social defeat also displayed elevated levels of NOP receptor mRNA expression in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus. These results suggest that the N/OFQ-NOP receptor system is affected by acute stress exposure, particularly in limbic regions. This stress-induced upregulation of NOP receptor gene expression further supports the possibility that disregulation of the N/OFQ-NOP system may contribute to behavioral and hormonal disregulation following stress.
In rodent behavioural screens, such as the forced swim or resident/intruder tests, the behaviour of mice that lack functional substance P-preferring, tachykinin-1 receptors ((NK1R) either through drug antagonism or gene ablation) mimics that of wildtype mice that have been treated with an antidepressant drug. All antidepressants modify the function of monoamine-releasing neurones in the brain. Our intention was to investigate whether monoaminergic transmission in NK1R-/- mice resembles that of wildtypes given an antidepressant. In the course of this work, we discovered that NK1R-/- mice express locomotor hyperactivity that is prevented by psychostimulants (d-amphetamine or methylphenidate). Moreover, hyperactivity is induced in wildtypes by treating them with an NK1R antagonist (at doses that have no effect on the behaviour of NK1R-/- mice): this hyperactivity is prevented by d-amphetamine, as in NK1R-/- mice. The mutant mice display several other abnormalities, which affect their behaviour and central monoaminergic transmission. These include: increased release of noradrenaline and a deficit in dopaminergic transmission in the prefrontal cortex ('hypofrontality'); a lack of an increase in dopamine efflux in the dorsal striatum following systemic administration of d-amphetamine; and a lack of development of d-amphetamine or morphine-induced conditioned place preference. Collectively, these findings strongly parallel abnormalities expressed by patients with Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) and suggest that NK1R-/- mice offer a novel model of this disorder. We propose that mutations in the NK1R gene (tacr1 in humans) could contribute to this disorder, and that drugs that activate NK1R could offer therapeutic relief.
Methylphenidate (Ritalin) is a selective dopamine reuptake inhibitor and an effective treatment for attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) however the anatomical foci and neuronal circuits involved in these therapeutic benefits are unclear. This study determines the temporal pattern of brain regional activity change produced by systemic administration of a therapeutically relevant dose of methylphenidate in anaesthetised Sprague-Dawley rats using BOLD MRI and a 2.35T Bruker magnet. Following 60 min basal recording separate rats received saline (n = 9) or +/- methylphenidate hydrochloride (2 mg/kg, i.p., n = 9) and BOLD changes were recorded for 90 min using statistical parametric maps. Methylphenidate produced significant positive random BOLD effects in the nucleus accumbens, substantia nigra, entorhinal cortex and medial orbital cortex. Negative random BOLD effects were more widespread and intense, occurring in the motor and somatosensory cortices, caudate putamen, lateral globus pallidus and bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, without accompanying changes in blood pressure or respiratory rate. Methylphenidate-induced negative BOLD in the striatum, and other dopamine terminal areas, may reflect post-synaptic changes produced by blockade of the neuronal dopamine reuptake transporter. While increased positive BOLD in the medial orbital cortex may reflect altered dopamine and/or noradrenaline release indirectly altering striatal activity. The overall pattern of BOLD changes is comparable to that seen in previous studies using guanfacine, amphetamine and atomoxetine, and suggests that although these compounds operate through distinct pharmacological mechanisms the BOLD changes may represent a 'fingerprint pattern' predictive of therapeutic benefit in ADHD.
Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a common neuropsychiatric disorder characterised by excessive levels of hyperactivity, inattentiveness and impulsivity. Stimulant drugs which increase dopamine neurotransmission are treatments for ADHD. Hypodopaminergic fronto-striatal function with associated overactivity of the dopamine transporter (DAT) represents one possible neurobiological mechanism underlying ADHD. Few, if any, of the existing animal models of ADHD mimic the underlying neurobiology of the disorder. In this study we have further characterised the behavioural profile of a model of a hyperactive inattentive animal through manipulation of the DAT. The behavioural effects of acute treatment and following withdrawal from sub-chronic treatment with GBR 12909 (30 mg/kg i.p.), a potent and highly selective DAT inhibitor, were examined in juvenile rats. GBR 12909 treatment was used to produce a compensatory up regulation following withdrawal. Acute treatment with GBR 12909 (30 mg/kg i.p.) resulted in a marked increase in locomotor and rearing behaviours on the first and fourth days during a 4 consecutive bi-daily drug treatment regime in postnatal weaned rats. Adolescent rats after 10, 20 and 30 days withdrawal from GBR 12909 pre-treatment maintained mild increases in locomotor activity and failed to discriminate a familiar over a novel object in the novel object discrimination task (using both 1 min and 3 h inter-trial intervals) indicating impaired learning and memory. Prepulse inhibition of acoustic startle was unaltered following withdrawal from GBR 12909 treatment. These data reinforce the potential role of the DAT in the underlying neurobiology of ADHD. They also add further evidence to suggest that postnatal changes in the DAT following withdrawal from treatment with the DAT inhibitor, GBR 12909, may prove to be a useful animal model of ADHD with potential for examining the effectiveness of novel ADHD treatments.

Given the challenges inherent in randomised trials of rehabilitation interventions, methods are required to increase trial efficiency and information yield. This paper discusses, in a non-technical manner, a class of statistical models that is particularly suited to the task of detecting potential treatment effects against a background of spontaneous change.
A central issue in cognitive neuroscience of aging research is pinpointing precise neural mechanisms that determine cognitive outcome in late adulthood as well as identifying early markers of less successful cognitive aging. One promising biomarker is beta amyloid (Abeta) deposition. Several new radiotracers have been developed that bind to fibrillar Abeta providing sensitive estimates of amyloid deposition in various brain regions. Abeta imaging has been primarily used to study patients with Alzheimer's Disease (AD) and individuals with Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI); however, there is now building data on Abeta deposition in healthy controls that suggest at least 20% and perhaps as much as a third of healthy older adults show significant deposition. Considerable evidence suggests amyloid deposition precedes declines in cognition and may be the initiator in a cascade of events that indirectly leads to age-related cognitive decline. We review studies of Abeta deposition imaging in AD, MCI, and normal adults, its cognitive consequences, and the role of genetic risk and cognitive reserve.
This study examined the developmental trajectories associated with response inhibition and error processing as exemplar executive processes. We present fMRI data showing developmental changes to the functional networks underlying response inhibition and error-monitoring, comparing activation between adults and young adolescents performing the sustained attention to response task (SART). During successful inhibitions, we observed greater activation for the young adolescents than for the adults, in a widely distributed network including frontal, parietal and medial regions. When inhibition failed, however, adults showed increased activation compared to young adolescents in a number of regions, including bilateral parahippocampal gyrus, left and right lingual gyri, the right insula, and cerebellar regions. These differences largely remained even when the two groups were matched for performance, suggesting that performance differences are unlikely to be the driving factor behind these developmental differences. Instead, the neurodevelopmental trajectory of these important executive functions may reveal the basis for the immature executive functioning of the young adolescent.
There is considerable inter-study and inter-individual variation in the scalp location of parietal sites where transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) may modulate visuospatial behaviours (e.g. see Ryan, Bonilha, &amp; Jackson, 2006); and no clear consensus on methods for identifying such sites. Here we introduce a novel TMS &quot;hunting paradigm&quot; that allows rapid, reliable identification of a site over the right anterior intraparietal sulcus (IPS), where short trains (at 10 Hz for 0.5 s) of TMS disrupt performance of a visuospatial task. The task involves detection of a small peripheral gap (at 14 degrees eccentricity), on one or other (known) side of an extended (29 degrees ) horizontal line centred on fixation. Signal-detection analysis confirmed that TMS at the right IPS site reduced sensitivity (d') for gap targets in the left visual hemifield. A further experiment showed that the same right-parietal TMS increased sensitivity instead for gaps in the right hemifield. Comparing TMS across a grid of scalp locations around the identified 'hotspot' confirmed the spatial-specificity of the effective site. Assessment of the TMS intensity required to produce the phenomena found this was linearly related to individuals' resting motor TMS threshold over hand M1. Our approach provides a systematic new way to identify an effective site and intensity in individuals, at which TMS over right-parietal cortex reliably changes visuospatial sensitivity.
To date, several posterior brain regions have been identified that play a role in the visual perception of other people and their movements. The aim of the present study is to understand how these areas may be involved in relating body movements to their visual consequences. We used fMRI to examine the extrastriate body area (EBA), the fusiform body area (FBA), and an area in the posterior superior temporal sulcus (pSTS) that responds to patterns of human biological motion. Each area was localized in individual participants with independent scans. In the main experiment, participants performed and/or viewed simple, intransitive hand actions while in the scanner. An MR-compatible camera with a near-egocentric view of the participant's hand was used to manipulate the relationship between motor output and the visual stimulus. Participants' only view of their hands was via this camera. In the Compatible condition, participants viewed their own live hand movements projected onto the screen. In the Incompatible condition, participants viewed actions that were different from the actions they were executing. In pSTS, the BOLD response in the Incompatible condition was significantly higher than in the Compatible condition. Further, the response in the Compatible condition was below baseline, and no greater than that found in a control condition in which hand actions were performed without any visual input. This indicates a strong suppression in pSTS of the response to the visual stimulus that arises from one's own actions. In contrast, in EBA and FBA, we found a large but equivalent response to the Compatible and Incompatible conditions, and this response was the same as that elicited in a control condition in which hand actions were viewed passively, with no concurrent motor task. These findings indicate that, in contrast to pSTS, EBA and FBA are decoupled from motor systems. Instead we propose that their role is limited to perceptual analysis of body-related visual input.
We compared psychophysical thresholds for biological and non-biological motion detection in adults with autism spectrum conditions (ASCs) and controls. Participants watched animations of a biological stimulus (a moving hand) or a non-biological stimulus (a falling tennis ball). The velocity profile of the movement was varied between 100% natural motion (minimum-jerk (MJ) for the hand; gravitational (G) for the ball) and 100% constant velocity (CV). Participants were asked to judge which animation was 'less natural' in a two-interval forced-choice paradigm and thresholds were estimated adaptively. There was a significant interaction between group and condition. Thresholds in the MJ condition were lower than in the G condition for the NC group whereas there was no difference between the thresholds in the two conditions for the ASC group. Thus, unlike the controls, the ASC group did not show an increased sensitivity for perturbation to biological over non-biological velocity profiles.

The neurobehavioral underpinnings of pathological gambling are not well understood. Insight might be gained by understanding pharmacological effects on the reward system in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). Treatment with dopamine agonists (DAs) has been associated with pathological gambling in PD patients. However, how DAs are involved in the development of this form of addiction is unknown. We tested the hypothesis that tonic stimulation of dopamine receptors specifically desensitizes the dopaminergic reward system by preventing decreases in dopaminergic transmission that occurs with negative feedback. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging, we studied PD patients during three sessions of a probabilistic reward task in random order: off medication, after levodopa (LD) treatment, and after an equivalent dose of DA (pramipexole). For each trial, a reward prediction error value was computed using outcome, stake, and probability. Pramipexole specifically changed activity of the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) in two ways that were both associated with increased risk taking in an out-of-magnet task. Outcome-induced activations were generally higher with pramipexole compared with LD or off medication. In addition, only pramipexole greatly diminished trial-by-trial correlation with reward prediction error values. Further analysis yielded that this resulted mainly from impaired deactivation in trials with negative errors in reward prediction. We propose that DAs prevent pauses in dopamine transmission and thereby impair the negative reinforcing effect of losing. Our findings raise the question of whether pathological gambling may in part stem from an impaired capacity of the OFC to guide behavior when facing negative consequences.
Earlier data suggest that a polymorphism at the serotonin (5-HT) transporter gene (5-HTTLPR) may affect depression particularly in the face of stress due to interactions between 5-HT vulnerability and stress exposure. However, this interaction between 5-HT transporter-linked transcriptional promoter region (5-HTTLPR), 5-HT vulnerability and the affective effects of stress exposure has not yet been investigated. As participants with short-allele 5-HTTLPR genotypes may exhibit enhanced 5-HT vulnerability, this study examines the effects of tryptophan challenge on stress reactivity and performance in healthy participants with S'/S' vs L'/L' genotypes. Sixteen healthy subjects with homozygotic short alleles (S'/S'=S/L(G,) L(G)/L(G)) and 14 subjects with homozygotic long alleles (L'/L'=L(A)/L(A)) of the 5-HTTLPR were tested in a double-blind placebo-controlled design under acute stress exposure following tryptophan challenge or placebo. Although there were no 5-HTTLPR-related differences in stress responses, significant beneficial effects of tryptophan challenge on mood and stress performance were exclusively found in participants with S'/S' genotypes. These findings suggest greater brain 5-HT vulnerability to tryptophan manipulations in participants with S'/S' as compared with L'/L' 5-HTTLPR genotypes. This apparent genetic 5-HT vulnerability may become a meaningful risk factor for depression when brain 5-HT falls below functional need in the face of real severe stressful life events.
Trauma to the spinal cord initiates a series of cellular and biochemical processes that damage both neurons and glia. TGF-beta and its receptors are expressed around the injury site following a spinal cord injury. Here, we report that the intrathecal administration of a neutralizing antibody to TGF-beta1 in rats with thoracic spinal cord contusion results in a significant enhancement of the locomotor recovery. The inhibition of TGF-beta1 suppresses glial scar formation and upregulates microglia/macrophage activation after the injury, presumably providing a favorable environment for restoration of the neural network. Rats treated with the anti-TGF-beta1 antibody exhibited a mild enhancement of growth and/or preservation of axons in the injured spinal cord caudal to the site of contusion. These results support the possibility of using TGF-beta1 inhibitors in the treatment of human spinal cord injuries.
The present study aimed to characterize the ability of the novel delta opioid peptide (DOP) receptor agonist H-Dmt-Tic-NH-CH(CH2-COOH)-Bid (UFP-512) to attenuate motor deficits in 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) hemilesioned rats. Lower doses (0.1-10 microg/kg) of UFP-512 administered systemically (i.p.) stimulated stepping activity in the drag test and overall gait abilities in the rotarod test whereas higher doses (100-1000 microg/kg) were ineffective or even worsened Parkinsonism. Microdialysis coupled to an akinesia test (bar test) was then used to determine the circuitry involved in the motor actions of UFP-512. An antiakinetic dose of UFP-512 (10 microg/kg) decreased GABA in globus pallidus (GP) as well as GABA and glutamate (GLU) release in substantia nigra reticulata (SNr). On the other hand, a pro-akinetic dose (1000 microg/kg) of UFP-512 increased pallidal GABA, simultaneously producing a decrease in GABA and an increase in nigral GLU release. Moreover, to test the hypothesis that changes in motor behavior were associated with changes in nigro-thalamic transmission, amino acid release in ventromedial thalamus (VMTh, a target of nigro-thalamic GABAergic projections) was also measured. The anti-akinetic dose of UFP-512 reduced GABA and increased thalamic GLU release while the pro-akinetic dose increased GABA without affecting thalamic GLU release. Finally, regional microinjections were performed to investigate the brain areas involved in motor actions of UFP-512. UFP-512 microinjections into GP increased akinesia whereas UFP-512 microinjections into SNr reduced akinesia. Furthermore, the selective DOP receptor antagonist naltrindole (NTD) increased akinesia when injected into either area, GP being more sensitive. We conclude that UFP-512, depending on dose, improves or worsens motor activity in hemiparkinsonian rats by acting differentially as a DOP receptor agonist in SNr and a DOP receptor antagonist in GP, ultimately decreasing or increasing the activity of nigro-thalamic GABAergc output neurons, respectively.
A major limitation of current stroke therapies is the need to treat candidate patients within 3 h of stroke onset. Human umbilical cord blood cell (HUCBC) and the sigma receptor agonist 1,3, di-o-tolylguanidine (DTG) administration both caused significant reductions in brain damage in the rat middle cerebral artery occlusion model of stroke when administered at delayed timepoints. In vivo, these treatments suppress the infiltration of peripheral lymphocytes into the brain in addition to decreasing neurodegeneration. An ex vivo organotypic slice culture (OTC) model was utilized to characterize the efficacy of these treatments in mitigating neurodegeneration in ischemic brain tissue in the absence of the peripheral immune system. Slice cultures subjected to oxygen glucose deprivation (OGD) had significantly elevated levels of degenerating neurons and microglial nitric oxide production when compared to their normoxic counterparts. In cultures subjected to OGD, HUCBC but not DTG treatment reduced the number of degenerating neurons and the production of microglial derived nitric oxide back to levels detected in normoxic controls. These data show that HUCBC treatment can mediate direct neuroprotection and suppress innate inflammation in ischemic brain tissue in the absence of the peripheral immune system, whereas DTG requires peripheral effects to mediate neuroprotection. These experiments yield insight into the mechanisms by which these neuroprotective treatments function at delayed timepoints following stroke.
The present study is aimed at testing the hypothesis that an enriched environment (EE) induces sex-dependent changes in stress hormone release and in markers of increased brain plasticity. The focus was on hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) axis activity, plasma levels of stress hormones, gene expression of glutamate receptor subunits and concentrations of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in selected brain regions. Rats exposed to EE were housed in groups of 12 in large cages with various objects, which were frequently changed, for 6 weeks. Control animals were housed four per cage under standard conditions. In females the EE-induced rise in hippocampal BDNF, a neurotrophic factor associated with increased neural plasticity, was more pronounced than in males. Similar sex-specific changes were observed in BDNF concentrations in the hypothalamus. EE also significantly attenuated oxytocin and aldosterone levels only in female but not male rats. Plasma testosterone positively correlated with hippocampal BDNF in female but not male rats housed in EE. In male rats housing in EE led to enhanced levels of testosterone and adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH), this was not seen in females. Hippocampal glucocorticoid but not mineralocorticoid receptor levels decreased in rats housed in EE irrespective of sex. Housing conditions failed to modify mRNA levels of glutamate receptor type 1 (Glur1) and metabotropic glutamate receptor subtype 5 (mGlur5) subunits of glutamate receptors in the forebrain. Moreover, a negative association between corticosterone and BDNF was observed in both sexes. The results demonstrate that the association between hormones and changes in brain plasticity is sex related. In particular, testosterone seems to be involved in the regulatory processes related to neuroplasticity in females.
Chronic stress has been shown in animal models to result in altered dendritic morphology of pyramidal neurons of the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC). It has been hypothesized that the stress-induced dendritic retractions and spine loss lead to disrupted connectivity that results in stress-induced functional impairment of mPFC. While these alterations were initially viewed as a neurodegenerative event, it has recently been established that stress induced dendritic alterations are reversible if animals are given time to recover from chronic stress. However, whether spine growth accompanies dendritic extension remains to be demonstrated. It is also not known if recovery-phase dendritic extension allows for re-establishment of functional capacity. The goal of this study, therefore, was to characterize the structural and functional effects of chronic stress and recovery on the infralimbic (IL) region of the rat mPFC. We compared neuronal morphology of IL layer V pyramidal neurons from male Sprague-Dawley rats subjected to 21 days of chronic restraint stress (CRS) to those that experienced CRS followed by a 21 day recovery period. Layer V pyramidal cell functional capacity was assessed by intra-IL long-term potentiation (LTP) both in the absence and presence of SKF38393, a dopamine receptor partial agonist and a known PFC LTP modulator. We found that stress-induced IL apical dendritic retraction and spine loss co-occur with receptor-mediated impairments to catecholaminergic facilitation of synaptic plasticity. We also found that while post-stress recovery did not reverse distal dendritic retraction, it did result in over extension of proximal dendritic arbors and spine growth as well as a full reversal of CRS-induced impairments to catecholaminergic-mediated synaptic plasticity. Our results support the hypothesis that disease-related PFC dysfunction is a consequence of network disruption secondary to altered structural and functional plasticity and that circuitry reestablishment may underlie elements of recovery. Accordingly, we believe that pharmacological treatments targeted at preventing dendritic retraction and spine loss or encouraging circuitry re-establishment and stabilization may be advantageous in the prevention and treatment of mood and anxiety disorders.
The interaction between the dopaminergic and glutamatergic systems governs normal behavior and is perturbed in many psychiatric disorders including schizophrenia. Hypofunction of the D1 family of receptors, to which the D(1) and D(5) subtypes belong, is a typical feature of schizophrenia. Here we have used confocal live cell imaging of neurons to examine the distinct roles of the D(1) and D(5) receptors in the intra-neuronal interaction with the glutamatergic system. Using fluorescently tagged D(1) or D(5) expressed in cultured striatal neurons, we show that both receptor subtypes are primarily transported via lateral diffusion in the dendritic tree. D(1) is to a much larger extent than D(5) expressed in spines. D(1) is primarily expressed in the head whereas D(5) is largely localized to the neck of the spine. Activation of N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) receptors slowed the diffusion rate and increased the number of D(1) positive spines, while no effect on D(5) diffusion or spine localization could be observed. The observed differences between D(1) and D(5) can be attributed to structural differences in the C-terminus and its capacity to interact with NMDA receptors and PSD-95. Identification of a unique role of D(1) for the intra-neuronal interaction between the dopaminergic and glutamatergic systems will have implications for the development of more specific treatments in many neuropsychiatric disorders.
Environmental stress produces adverse affects on memory in humans and rodents. Increased noradrenergic neurotransmission is a major component of the response to stress and noradrenaline (NA) plays an important role in modulating processes involved in learning and memory. The present study investigated the effect of NA depletion on stress-induced changes on memory performance in the mouse. Central NA depletion was induced using the selective neurotoxin N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-ethyl-2 bromobenzylamine (DSP-4) and verified by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). A novel cage stress procedure involving exposure to a new clean cage for 1 h per day, 4 days per week for 4 weeks, was used to produce stress-induced memory deficits measured using the object recognition task. 50 mg/kg DSP-4 produced large and sustained reductions in NA levels in the frontal cortex and hippocampus measured 24 h, 1 week and 5 weeks after treatment. Four weeks of exposure to novel cage stress induced a memory deficit in the object recognition task which was prevented by DSP-4 pre-treatment (50 mg/kg 1 week before the commencement of stress).These findings indicate that chronic environmental stress adversely affects recognition memory and that this effect is, in part, mediated by the noradrenergic stress response. The implication of these findings is that drugs targeting the noradrenergic system to reduce over-activity may be beneficial in the treatment of stress-related mental disorders such as post-traumatic stress disorder or anxiety in which memory is affected.
Little is known about signaling pathways, besides those of neurotrophic factors, that are operational in adult spiral ganglion neurons. In patients with sensorineural hearing loss, such pathways could eventually be targeted to stimulate and guide neurite outgrowth from the remnants of the spiral ganglion towards a cochlear implant, thereby improving the fidelity of sound transmission. To systematically identify neuronal receptors for guidance cues in the adult cochlea, we conducted a genome-wide cDNA microarray screen with 2-month-old CBA/CaJ mice. A meta-analysis of our data and those from older mice in two other studies revealed the presence of neuronal transmembrane receptors that represent all four established guidance pathways--ephrin, netrin, semaphorin, and slit--in the mature cochlea as late as 15 months. In addition, we observed the expression of all known receptors for the &quot;wingless-related MMTV integration site&quot; (Wnt) morphogens, whose neuronal guidance function has only recently been recognized. In situ hybridizations located the mRNAs of the Wnt receptors frizzled 1, 4, 6, 9, and 10 specifically in adult spiral ganglion neurons. Finally, frizzled 9 protein was found in the growth cones of adult spiral ganglion neurons that were regenerating neurites in culture. We conclude from our results that adult spiral ganglion neurons are poised to respond to neurite damage, owing to the constitutive expression of a large and diverse collection of guidance receptors. Wnt signaling, in particular, emerges as a candidate pathway for guiding neurite outgrowth towards a cochlear implant after sensorineural hearing loss.
The blockade of serotoninergic receptors with methysergide or the activation of alpha(2)-adrenoceptors with moxonidine into the lateral parabrachial nucleus (LPBN) increases water and 0.3 M NaCl intake in rats treated with furosemide (FURO) combined with captopril (CAP). In the present study we investigated the effects of bilateral injections of noradrenaline (the endogenous neurotransmitter for alpha-adrenoceptors) alone or combined with the alpha(2)-adrenoceptor antagonist RX 821002 into the LPBN or into the rostral portion of the Klliker-Fuse nucleus that includes also the A7 area (KF/A7 area) on FURO+CAP-induced water and 0.3 M NaCl intake. Male Holtzman rats with bilateral stainless steel guide-cannulas implanted into KF/A7 area or LPBN were used. FURO+CAP-induced 0.3 M NaCl intake strongly increased after bilateral injections of noradrenaline (80 or 160 nmol/0.2 microl) into LPBN (26.5+/-5.9 and 20.7+/-2.0 ml/2 h versus saline: 4.4+/-0.9 ml/2 h) or into the KF/A7 area (31.5+/-6.1 and 25.9+/-4.7 ml/2 h versus saline: 7.2+/-1.6 ml/2 h). Water intake increased with noradrenaline injected in KF/A7 area, however, this treatment reduced 0.06 M sucrose intake, suggesting that the increase of water and NaCl intake is not related to non-specific effect. Bilateral injections of RX 821002 (160 nmol/0.2 microl) into LPBN or KF/A7 area abolished the effects of noradrenaline (160 nmol/0.2 microl) in the same areas on 0.3 M NaCl intake (7.5+/-2.5 and 9.8+/-4.4 ml/2 h, respectively). Moxonidine (0.5 nmol/0.2 microl) injected bilaterally into the KF/A7 area increased 0.3 M NaCl intake (39.5+/-6.3 ml/3 h) and water intake, while methysergide (4 microg/0.2 microl) into the KF/A7 area did not alter 0.3 M NaCl or water intake. The results suggest that alpha(2)-adrenoceptor activation is a common mechanism in the KF/A7 area and LPBN to facilitate sodium intake. However, the serotonergic mechanism is present in LPBN, not in the KF/A7 area.
Among the local field potentials recorded in the rat nucleus accumbens (NAc) spontaneous high frequency oscillations (HFO) are typically represented by a small peak in the power spectra in the range of 140-180 Hz. These HFO are known to occur in the awake state, but their distribution over the sleep-wake cycle has not been investigated. To address this issue we firstly examined the power of HFO during periods of quiet waking, slow-wave sleep (SWS) and rapid eye movement (REM) sleep. Since general anesthesia resembles certain features of naturally occurring SWS we went on to examine the effect of pentobarbital, isoflurane or urethane anesthesia on spontaneous and ketamine-induced increases in HFO. With respect to waking, the power of spontaneous HFO decreased significantly during periods of SWS but did not differ during bouts of REM sleep. General anesthetics also reduced the power of spontaneous HFO recorded in the NAc and prevented the ketamine-induced increase. These findings suggest that behavioural states where the generation of mental activity is most intense are associated with the presence of HFO in the NAc. In line with this, states which lead to decreased mentation, such as naturally occurring SWS and general anesthesia are associated with reductions in the power of HFO. Our results also suggest that the awake state is necessary for NMDA antagonists to produce enhancement of HFO.
Orexin-A, synthesized by neurons of the lateral hypothalamus helps to maintain wakefulness through excitatory projections to nuclei involved in arousal. Obvious changes in eye movements, eyelid position and pupil reactions seen in the transition to sleep led to the investigation of orexin-A projections to visuomotor cell groups to determine whether direct pathways exist that may modify visuomotor behaviors during the sleep-wake cycle. Histological markers were used to define these specific visuomotor cell groups in monkey brainstem sections and combined with orexin-A immunostaining. The dense supply by orexin-A boutons around adjacent neurons in the dorsal raphe nucleus served as a control standard for a strong orexin-A input. The quantitative analysis assessing various functional cell groups of the oculomotor system revealed that almost no input from orexin-A terminals reached motoneurons supplying the singly-innervated muscle fibers of the extraocular muscles in the oculomotor nucleus, the omnipause neurons in the nucleus raphe interpositus and the premotor neurons in the rostral interstitial nucleus of the medial longitudinal fasciculus. In contrast, the motoneurons supplying the multiply-innervated muscle fibers of the extraocular muscles, the motoneurons of the levator palpebrae muscle in the central caudal nucleus, and especially the preganglionic neurons supplying the ciliary ganglion received a strong orexin input. We interpret these results as evidence that orexin-A does modulate pupil size, lid position, and possibly convergence and eye alignment via the motoneurons of multiply-innervated muscle fibres. However orexin-A does not directly modulate premotor pathways for saccades or the singly-innervated muscle fibre motoneurons.
Prior experience with the elevated plus maze (EPM) increases the avoidance of rodents to the open arms and impairs the anxiolytic-like effects of benzodiazepines on the traditional behaviors evaluated upon re-exposure to the maze, a phenomenon known as one-trial tolerance. Risk assessment behaviors are also sensitive to benzodiazepines. During re-exposure to the maze, these behaviors reinstate the information-processing initiated during the first experience, and the detection of danger generates stronger open-arm avoidance. The present study investigated whether the benzodiazepine midazolam alters risk assessment behaviors and Fos protein distribution associated with test and retest sessions in the EPM. Naive or maze-experienced Wistar rats received either saline or midazolam (0.5 mg/kg i.p.) and were subjected to the EPM. Midazolam caused the usual effects on exploratory behavior, increasing exploratory activity of naive rats in the open arms and producing no effects on these conventional measures in rats re-exposed to the maze. Risk assessment behaviors, however, were sensitive to the benzodiazepine during both sessions, indicating anxiolytic-like effects of the drug in both conditions. Fos immunohistochemistry showed that midazolam injections were associated with a distinct pattern of action when administered before the test or retest session, and the anterior cingulate cortex, area 1 (Cg1), was the only structure targeted by the benzodiazepine in both situations. Bilateral infusions of midazolam into the Cg1 replicated the behavioral effects of the drug injected systemically, suggesting that this area is critically involved in the anxiolytic-like effects of benzodiazepines, although the behavioral strategy adopted by the animals appears to depend on the previous knowledge of the threatening environment.
Voltage-gated sodium channels have been implicated in acute and chronic neuropathic pain. Among subtypes, Nav1.7 single mutations can cause congenital indifference to pain or chronic neuropathic pain syndromes, including paroxysmal ones. This channel is co-expressed with Nav1.8, which sustains the initial action potential; Nav1.3 is an embrionary channel which is expressed in neurons after injury, as in neuropathic conditions. Few studies are focused on the expression of these molecules in human tissues having chronic pain. Trigeminal neuralgia (TN) is an idiopathic paroxysmal pain treated with sodium channel blockers. The aim of this study was to investigate the expression of Nav1.3, Nav1.7 and Nav1.8 by RT-PCR in patients with TN, compared to controls. The gingival tissue was removed from the correspondent trigeminal area affected. We found that Nav1.7 was downregulated in TN (P=0.017) and Nav1.3 was upregulated in these patients (P=0.043). We propose a physiopathological mechanism for these findings. Besides vascular compression of TN, this disease might be also a channelopathy.
Chronic neuropathic pain caused by peripheral nerve injury is associated with global changes in gene expression in damaged neurons. To understand the molecular mechanisms underlying neuropathic pain, it is essential to elucidate how nerve injury alters gene expression and how the change contributes to the development and maintenance of chronic pain. MicroRNAs are non-protein-coding RNA molecules that regulate gene expression in a wide variety of biological processes mainly at the level of translation. This study investigated the possible involvement of microRNAs in gene regulation relevant to neuropathic pain. The analyses focused on a sensory organ-specific cluster of microRNAs that includes miR-96, -182, and -183. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) analyses confirmed that these microRNAs were highly enriched in the dorsal root ganglion (DRG) of adult rats. Using the L5 spinal nerve ligation (SNL) model of chronic neuropathic pain, we observed a significant reduction in expression of these microRNAs in injured DRG neurons compared to controls. In situ hybridization and immunohistochemical analyses revealed that these microRNAs are expressed in both myelinated (N52 positive) and unmyelinated (IB4 positive) primary afferent neurons. They also revealed that the intracellular distributions of the microRNAs in DRG neurons were dramatically altered in animals with mechanical hypersensitivity. Whereas microRNAs were uniformly distributed within the DRG soma of non-allodynic animals, they were preferentially localized to the periphery of neurons in allodynic animals. The redistribution of microRNAs was associated with changes in the distribution of the stress granule (SG) protein, T-cell intracellular antigen 1 (TIA-1). These data demonstrate that SNL induces changes in expression levels and patterns of miR-96, -182, and -183, implying their possible contribution to chronic neuropathic pain through translational regulation of pain-relevant genes. Moreover, SGs were suggested to be assembled and associated with microRNAs after SNL, which may play a role in modification of microRNA-mediated gene regulation in DRG neurons.
Plasticity in the adult mammalian brain can occur after damage to peripheral nerves and has also been described in the auditory system. Acoustic trauma, resulting in a loss of cochlear sensitivity, can lead to elevated levels of spontaneous activity, that is hyperactivity, in central nuclei such as the inferior colliculus. The current view is that this hyperactivity is centrally generated as a result of altered input. We investigated acute and chronic effects of acoustic trauma on cochlear sensitivity and development of hyperactivity in the inferior colliculus of guinea pigs. In addition, we investigated whether hyperactivity in the inferior colliculus, once established, is dependent on neural activity in the cochlea. Acoustic trauma (1 h continuous, 10 kHz tone at 124 dB SPL) resulted in a small but permanent, frequency restricted threshold loss in the cochlea up to 6 weeks post-exposure (maximum recovery time used). This was accompanied by hyperactivity in restricted frequency areas of the inferior colliculus, broadly corresponding to the cochlear threshold loss. We found that hyperactivity in the inferior colliculus depended on neural activity in the cochlea at all recovery times, since it disappeared after cochlear ablation and treatments blocking spontaneous firing of primary afferents. We suggest that the dependency of the central hyperactivity on the integrity of the peripheral receptor indicates hyperexcitability within the CNS resulting in greater neuronal firing in response to normal levels of peripheral spontaneous activity.
The loss of dopaminergic neurons followed by dopamine (DA) depletion in the neostriatum is a hallmark of Parkinson's disease. Among other changes, DA D(2)-receptor class (D(2)R-class) supersensitivity is a result of striatal DA depletion. Pharmacological, biochemical and behavioral data have documented this phenomenon, but clear electrophysiological-functional correlates are still lacking. This work describes an electrophysiological correlate of D(2)R-class supersensitivity in DA-depleted striata after unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesions in the rat substantia nigra compacta (SNc). Ca2+ current modulation mediated by D(2)R-class activation reflected an altered sensitivity. Thus, while the concentration-response relationship (C-R plot) from control striata was better fit with a two sites model, the C-R plot obtained from DA-depleted striata was better fit by a three sites model, exhibited a considerable leftward shift, and presented an increased maximal response. Because Ca2+ current modulation by D(2)R-class activation is involved in the control of spiny neurons excitability and their synaptic GABA release, the present findings may help to explain several functional changes found in the striatal circuitry after dopaminergic denervation.
24-hydroxycholesterol, a major polar metabolite of brain cholesterol, has neurotoxic effects. However, little is known about the effects of this polar metabolite on the CNS. In the present study, the effects of 24-hydroxycholesterol on behavior changes were investigated. Rats were divided into three groups: (i) a control group; (ii) a sham group: 0.5 ml PBS was infused into the cerebral ventricle; (iii) a model group: 0.5 ml 24-hydroxycholesterol (10 microM) was infused into the cerebral ventricle. 24-hydroxycholesterol can obviously impair rats' acquisition and probe trial in the Morris Water Maze task. Compared with rats in the sham group, rats in the model group had longer escape latency time and traveled more distance, and performed worse in the probe trial task manifested by spending less time in the annulus and training quadrant, which probably was attributed to the neuronal degeneration in hippocampal CA1 area induced by 24-hydroxycholesterol as examined by histological assay and apoptotic assay. Our results revealed that the polar metabolites, such as 24-hydroxycholesterol, exert neurotoxic effects and exacerbate the neuron injury with their abnormal accumulation. These findings suggest that measures taken promptly to eliminate or inhibit the accumulation of polar metabolites should be a potential strategy to prevent neurological dysfunctions and promote the recovery of functional deficits after neurotoxic insult.
The classical GABA/glycine hyperpolarizing inhibition is not observed in the immature spinal cord. GABA(A) and glycine receptors are anions channels and the efficacy of inhibitory transmission in the spinal cord is largely determined by the gradient between intracellular and extracellular chloride concentrations. The concentration of intracellular chloride in neurons is mainly regulated by two cation-chloride cotransporters, the potassium-chloride cotransporter 2 (KCC2) and the sodium-potassium-chloride co-transporter 1 (NKCC1). In this study, we measured the reversal potential of IPSPs (E(IPSP)) of lumbar motoneurons during the first postnatal week and we investigated the expression of KCC2 and NKCC1 in the ventral horn of the spinal cord from the embryonic day 17 to the postnatal day 20 in the rat. Our results suggest that the negative shift of E(IPSP) from above to below the resting membrane potential occurs during the first postnatal week when the expression of KCC2 increases significantly and the expression of NKCC1 decreases. KCC2 immunolabeling surrounded motoneurons, presumably in the plasma membrane and NKCC1 immunolabeling appeared outside this KCC2-labeled fine strip. Taken together, the present results indicate that maturation of chloride homeostasis is not completed at birth in the rat and that the upregulation of KCC2 plays a key role in the shift from depolarizing to hyperpolarizing IPSPs.
Methylmalonyl-CoA mutase (MCM) and propionyl-CoA carboxylase (PCC) are the key enzymes of the catabolic pathway of propionate metabolism and are mainly expressed in liver, kidney and heart. Deficiency of these enzymes leads to two classical organic acidurias: methylmalonic and propionic aciduria. Patients with these diseases suffer from a whole spectrum of neurological manifestations that are limiting their quality of life. Current treatment does not seem to effectively prevent neurological deterioration and pathophysiological mechanisms are poorly understood. In this article we show evidence for the expression of the catabolic pathway of propionate metabolism in the developing and adult rat CNS. Both, MCM and PCC enzymes are co-expressed in neurons and found in all regions of the CNS. Disease-specific metabolites such as methylmalonate, propionyl-CoA and 2-methylcitrate could thus be formed autonomously in the CNS and contribute to the pathophysiological mechanisms of neurotoxicity. In rat embryos (E15.5 and E18.5), MCM and PCC show a much higher expression level in the entire CNS than in the liver, suggesting a different, but important function of this pathway during brain development.
Fifteen percent to 35% of the United States population experiences tinnitus, a subjective &quot;ringing in the ears&quot;. Up to 10% of those afflicted report severe and disabling symptoms. Tinnitus was induced in rats using unilateral, 1 h, 17 kHz-centered octave-band noise (116 dB SPL) and assessed using a gap-startle method. The dorsal cochlear nucleus (DCN) is thought to undergo plastic changes suggestive of altered inhibitory function during tinnitus development. Exposed rats showed near pre-exposure auditory brainstem response (ABR) thresholds for clicks and all tested frequencies 16 weeks post-exposure. Sound-exposed rats showed significantly worse gap detection at 24 and 32 kHz 16 weeks following sound exposure, suggesting the development of chronic, high frequency tinnitus. Message and protein levels of alpha(1-3,) and beta glycine receptor subunits (GlyRs), and the anchoring protein, gephyrin, were measured in DCN fusiform cells 4 months following sound exposure. Rats with evidence of tinnitus showed significant GlyR alpha(1) protein decreases in the middle and high frequency regions of the DCN while alpha(1) message levels were paradoxically increased. Gephyrin levels showed significant tinnitus-related increases in sound-exposed rats suggesting intracellular receptor trafficking changes following sound exposure. Consistent with decreased alpha(1) subunit protein levels, strychnine binding studies showed significant tinnitus-related decreases in the number of GlyR binding sites, supporting tinnitus-related changes in the number and/or composition of GlyRs. Collectively, these findings suggest the development of tinnitus is likely associated with functional GlyR changes in DCN fusiform cells consistent with previously described behavioral and neurophysiologic changes. Tinnitus related GlyR changes could provide a unique receptor target for tinnitus pharmacotherapy or blockade of tinnitus initiation.
L-arginine is metabolised by nitric oxide synthase (NOS) and arginase to form L-citrulline and nitric oxide, and L-ornithine and urea, respectively. The present study investigated NOS and arginase activities, and the levels of L-arginine, L-citrulline and L-ornithine, as well as glutamate and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), in memory-related brain structures in 4, 12 and 24 months old rats. Significantly increased NOS and arginase activities with age were found across the CA1, CA2/3 and dentate gyrus (DG) sub-regions of the hippocampus and the prefrontal, entorhinal, perirhinal, postrhinal and temporal cortices in a region-specific manner. For L-arginine, there were age-related increases in CA1 and the perirhinal and temporal cortices, and decreases in the entorhinal and postrhinal cortices. L-citrulline levels were decreased with age in the prefrontal, postrhinal and temporal cortices. There were age-related decreases in L-citrulline/L-arginine molar ratio in CA1 and CA2/3 and the prefrontal and temporal cortices, but an increase in the entorhinal cortex (EC). Increased L-ornithine levels and L-ornithine/L-arginine molar ratios with age were found in most of the brain regions examined. Glutamate levels were significantly decreased with age in the prefrontal, entorhinal, perirhinal and temporal cortices, whereas GABA level was largely unchanged except for age-related increase in CA1. There were significantly decreased glutamate/GABA molar ratios with age in six brain regions. Correlational analyses revealed no inverse relationship between NOS and arginase activities, and no positive correlations between the activities of the two enzymes and the tissue concentrations of their products. Interestingly, there were significant positive correlations between glutamate and GABA, and L-arginine and its metabolites in many brain regions. These results demonstrate that the aging process has dramatic effects on the NOS and arginase metabolic pathways of L-arginine and the glutamatergic neurotransmitter system. Since L-arginine metabolism is complex, there is a need to determine its metabolomic profile in vivo in the future.
The present study investigated a skill-level-dependent interaction between gravity and muscular force when striking piano keys. Kinetic analysis of the arm during the downswing motion performed by expert and novice piano players was made using an inverse dynamic technique. The corresponding activities of the elbow agonist and antagonist muscles were simultaneously recorded using electromyography (EMG). Muscular torque at the elbow joint was computed while excluding the effects of gravitational and motion-dependent interaction torques. During descending the forearm to strike the keys, the experts kept the activation of the triceps (movement agonist) muscle close to the resting level, and decreased anti-gravity activity of the biceps muscle across all loudness levels. This suggested that elbow extension torque was produced by gravity without the contribution of agonist muscular work. For the novices, on the other hand, a distinct activity in the triceps muscle appeared during the middle of the downswing, and its amount and duration were increased with increasing loudness. Therefore, for the novices, agonist muscular force was the predominant contributor to the acceleration of elbow extension during the downswing. We concluded that a balance shift from muscular force dependency to gravity dependency for the generation of a target joint torque occurs with long-term piano training. This shift would support the notion of non-muscular force utilization for improving physiological efficiency of limb movement with respect to the effective use of gravity.
Neuroinflammation of the CNS seems to participate in sensitizing effects of drugs of abuse such as psychostimulants and morphine. The nuclear receptor peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPAR-alpha) plays a prominent role in several physiological processes including the inflammatory response, and its activation mediates a reduced production of pro-inflammatory factors. The objectives were to examine the involvement of nuclear PPAR-alpha in motor sensitization to morphine and cocaine, by using null mice (PPAR-alpha -/-mice), or the injection of a selective PPAR-alpha agonist, [[4-chloro-6-[(2,3-dimethylphenyl)amino]-2-pyrimidinyl] thio]acetic acid (WY14643), in morphine-treated mice. The findings indicate that PPAR-alpha plays an inhibitory role in the expression (not induction) of motor sensitization to morphine, but it is devoid of effects on sensitization to cocaine, suggesting that this nuclear receptor participates in motor activating effects of opiates but not psychostimulants. Furthermore, brain PPAR-alpha expression is upregulated after the highest dose of repeated morphine, but not chronic cocaine, suggesting that this receptor could play a homeostatic role. In accordance, systemic WY14643 was able to block sensitization to morphine, confirming that PPAR-alpha plays a homeostatic role opposing morphine-induced motor sensitization, likely through a reduction of inflammation-associated changes.
Pedunculopontine tegmentum (PPT) has GABA-ergic neurons and receives GABA-ergic projections from substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNrpr). Based on the recent studies from our and other laboratories, it was hypothesized that GABA in PPT promotes rapid eye movement (REM) sleep. In order to further study the role of GABA in PPT in REM sleep regulation, we microinjected GABA-A agonist, muscimol (200 nL, 3.5 mM), into the PPT. Muscimol in PPT significantly enhanced the amount of REM sleep by increasing the mean number of REM sleep bouts. Besides the local interneurons, GABA-ergic afferents from SNrpr are another source of GABA in PPT. In order to understand the contribution of GABA-ergic inputs from SNrpr into PPT for REM sleep regulation, SNrpr was electrically stimulated either alone or simultaneously along with the infusion of GABA-A antagonist, picrotoxin (200 nL, 0.86 mM), into the PPT. The experiment was designed with the premise that stimulation of SNrpr should increase GABA levels in PPT which should increase REM sleep comparable to that after muscimol microinjection in PPT. Further, the effect of stimulation of SNrpr on REM sleep should be antagonized by simultaneous infusion of picrotoxin into PPT. The electrical stimulation of SNrpr did not produce any significant change in sleep-wake states although it was sufficient to counter the effect of picrotoxin injection into the PPT. To overcome the limitations and confounds of electrical stimulation, SNrpr was pharmacologically stimulated by glutamate microinjection (200 nL, 5.34 mM). Infusion of glutamate into SNrpr enhanced REM sleep by increasing the mean number of REM sleep bouts, which was similar and comparable to the effect of muscimol injection into the PPT. The results confirm that GABA in PPT either from local neurons or from SNrpr promotes REM sleep.
The hypothalamic suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), which in mammals serves as the master circadian pacemaker by synchronizing autonomous clocks in peripheral tissues, is composed of coupled single-cell oscillators that are driven by interlocking positive/negative transcriptional/translational feedback loops. Several studies have suggested that heme, a common prosthetic group that is synthesized and degraded in a circadian manner in the SCN, may modulate the function of several feedback loop components, including the REV-ERB nuclear receptors and PERIOD2 (PER2). We found that ferric heme (hemin, 3-100 microM) dose-dependently and reversibly damped luminescence rhythms in SCN explants from mice expressing a PER2::LUCIFERASE (PER2::LUC) fusion protein. Inhibitors of heme oxygenases (HOs, which degrade heme to biliverdin, carbon monoxide, and iron) mimicked heme's effects on PER2 rhythms. In contrast, heme and HO inhibition did not damp luminescence rhythms in thymus and esophagus explants and had only a small effect on PER2::LUC damping in spleen explants, suggesting that heme's effects are tissue-specific. Analysis of the effects of heme's degradation products on SCN PER2::LUC rhythms indicated that they probably were not responsible for heme's effects on rhythms. The heme synthesis inhibitor N-methylprotoporphyrinIX (NMP) lengthened the circadian period of SCN PER2::LUC rhythms by about an hour. These data are consistent with an important role for heme in the circadian system.
Following CNS injury there is a period of vulnerability when cells will not easily tolerate a secondary insult. However recent studies have shown that following traumatic brain injury (TBI), as well as hypoxic-ischemic injuries, the CNS may experience a period of protection termed &quot;preconditioning.&quot; While there is literature characterizing the properties of vulnerability and preconditioning in the adult rodent, there is an absence of comparable literature in the developing rat. To determine if there is a window of vulnerability in the developing rat, post-natal day 19 animals were subjected to a severe lateral fluid percussion injury followed by pilocarpine (Pc)-induced status epilepticus at 1, 6 or 24 h post TBI. During the first 24 h after TBI, the dorsal hippocampus exhibited less status epilepticus-induced cell death than that normally seen following Pc administration alone. Instead of producing a state of hippocampal vulnerability to activation, TBI produced a state of neuroprotection. However, in a second group of animals evaluated 20 weeks post injury, double-injured animals were statistically indistinguishable in terms of seizure threshold, mossy fiber sprouting and cell survival when compared to those treated with Pc alone. TBI, therefore, produced a temporary state of neuroprotection from seizure-induced cell death in the developing rat; however, this ultimately conferred no long-term protection from altered hippocampal circuit rearrangements, enhanced excitability or later convulsive seizures.
Ethanol modulates the actions of multiple neurotransmitter systems, including GABA. However, its enhancing effects on GABA signaling typically are seen only at high concentrations. In contrast, although GABA is a prominent neurotransmitter in the circadian clock of the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), we see ethanol modulation of clock phase resetting at low concentrations (&lt;50 mM). A possible explanation is that ethanol enhances GABAergic signaling in the SCN through activating GABA(A) receptors that contain the delta subunit (GABA(Adelta) receptors), which are sensitive to low ethanol concentrations. Therefore, we investigated whether ethanol acts on GABA(Adelta) receptors in the SCN. Here we show that acute application of the GABA(Adelta) receptor antagonist, RO15-4513, to mouse hypothalamic slices containing the SCN prevents ethanol inhibition of nighttime glutamate-induced (photic-like) phase delays of the circadian clock. Diazepam, which enhances activity of GABA(A) receptors containing the gamma subunit (GABA(Agamma) receptors), does not modulate these phase shifts. Moreover, we find that RO15-4513 prevents ethanol enhancement of daytime serotonergic (non-photic) phase advances of the circadian clock. Furthermore, diazepam phase-advances the SCN circadian clock when applied alone in the daytime, while ethanol has no effect by itself at that time. These data support the hypothesis that ethanol acts on GABA(Adelta) receptors in the SCN to modulate photic and non-photic circadian clock phase resetting. They also reveal distinct modulatory roles of different GABA(A) receptor subtypes in circadian clock phase regulation.
Pertussis toxin (PTX) treatment results in ADP-ribosylation of Gi-protein and thus in disruption of mu-opioid receptor signal transduction and loss of the antinociceptive effect of morphine. We have previously demonstrated that pretreatment with ultra-low dose naloxone preserves the antinociceptive effect of morphine in PTX-treated rats. The present study further examined the effect of ultra-low dose naloxone on mu-opioid receptor signaling in PTX-treated rats and the underlying mechanism. Male Wistar rats implanted with an intrathecal catheter received an intrathecal injection of saline or PTX (1 microg in 5 microl of saline), then, 4 days later, were pretreated by intrathecal injection with either saline or ultra-low dose naloxone (15 ng in 5 microl of saline), followed, 30 min later, by saline or morphine (10 microg in 5 microl of saline). Four days after PTX injection, thermal hyperalgesia was observed, together with increased coupling of excitatory Gs-protein to mu-opioid receptors in the spinal cord. Ultra-low dose naloxone pretreatment preserved the antinociceptive effect of morphine, and this effect was completely blocked by the mu-opioid receptor antagonist CTOP, but not by the kappa-opioid receptor antagonist nor-BNI or the delta-opioid receptor antagonist naltrindole. Moreover, a co-immunoprecipitation study showed that ultra-low dose naloxone restored mu-opioid receptor/Gi-protein coupling and inhibited the PTX-induced mu-opioid receptor/Gs-protein coupling. In addition to the anti-neuroinflammatory effect and glutamate transporter modulation previously observed in PTX-treated rats, the re-establishment of mu-opioid receptor Gi/Go-protein coupling is involved in the restoration of the antinociceptive effect of morphine by ultra-low dose naloxone pretreatment by normalizing the balance between the excitatory and inhibitory signaling pathways. These results show that ultra-low dose naloxone preserves the antinociceptive effect of morphine, suppresses spinal neuroinflammation, and reduces PTX-elevated excitatory Gs-coupled opioid receptors in PTX-treated rats. We suggest that ultra-low dose naloxone might be clinically valuable in pain management.
Adaptation to stimulus orientation is assumed to have a cortical basis, but few studies have addressed whether it affects the activity of subcortical neurons. Using single-unit recording, we studied the effects of orientation adaptation on the responses of lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) neurons with high orientation bias (OB) in anesthetized and paralyzed cats. Following adaptation to one stimulus orientation, the response at the adapting orientation was decreased, and the preferred orientation was shifted away from the adapting orientation. This phenomenon was similar to the effects observed for orientation adaptation in the primary visual cortex (V1), and was obvious when the adapting orientation was at an appropriate location relative to the original preferred orientation. Moreover, when the V1 was inactivated, the response at the adapting orientation was also decreased but the preferred orientation did not show a systematic shift after orientation adaptation in LGN. This result indicates that cortical feedback contributes to the effect of orientation adaptation on LGN neurons, which have a high OB. These data provide an example of how the corticothalamic loop modulates the processing of visual information, and suggest that the LGN is not only a simply passive relay but also a modulator of visual information.
We examined the somatodendritic compartment of nigral dopaminergic neurons by immunocytochemistry and confocal microscopy, with the aim of identifying proteins that participate in dopamine packaging and release. Nigral dopaminergic neurons were identified by location, cellular features and tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity. Immunoreactive puncta of vesicular monoamine transporter type 2 and proton ATPase, both involved in the packaging of dopamine for release, were located primarily in dopaminergic cell bodies, but were absent in distal dopaminergic dendrites. Many presynaptic proteins associated with transmitter release at fast synapses were absent in nigral dopaminergic neurons, including synaptotagmin 1, syntaxin1, synaptic vesicle proteins 2a and 2b, synaptophysin and synaptobrevin 1 (VAMP 1). On the other hand, syntaxin 3, synaptobrevin 2 (VAMP 2) and SNAP-25-immunoreactivities were found in dopaminergic somata and dendrites Our data imply that the storage and exocytosis of dopamine from the somatodendritic compartment of nigral dopaminergic neurons is mechanistically distinct from transmitter release at axon terminals utilizing amino acid neurotransmitters.
Ubiquitin proteasome system (UPS) and autophagy lysosome pathway (ALP) are the two most important routes for degradation of aggregated/misfolded proteins. Additionally, ALP is so far the only known route to clear entire organelles, such as mitochondria. We proposed that enhancement of ALP may be beneficial for some neurodegenerative disorders, such as Parkinson's disease (PD), in which the accumulation of aggregated/misfolded proteins and the dysfunction of mitochondria are the two major pathogenesis. Mitochondrial complex I inhibitor rotenone, which causes dysfunction mitochondria and UPS, has been considered as one of the neurotoxins related to PD. In this study, rotenone-exposed human neuronal SH-SY5Y cells were used as an in vitro model for us to determine whether autophagy enhancer rapamycin could protect against rotenone-induced injury and its underlying mechanisms. The observed results showed that rapamycin alleviated rotenone-induced apoptosis, whose effects were partially blocked when autophagy related gene 5 (Atg5) was suppressed by Atg5 small interference RNA (siRNA) transfection. Additionally, the results showed that rapamycin pretreatment diminished rotenone-induced accumulation of high molecular weight ubiquitinated bands, and reduced rotenone-induced increase of cytochrome c in cytosolic fraction and decreased mitochondrial marker cytochrome oxidase subunit IV (COX IV) in mitochondrial fraction. The changes in cytochrome c and COX IV indicated that the decreased translocation of cytochrome c from mitochondria to cytosol was probably due to the turn over of entire injured mitochondria. The results that lysosome and mitochondria were colocolized within the cells pretreated with rapamycin and that the mitochondria could be found within autophagy double membrane structures further supported that the damaged mitochondria might be cleared through autophagy, which process has been termed as &quot;mitophagy.&quot; Our studies suggested that autophagy enhancer rapamycin is neuroprotective against rotenone-induced apoptosis through autophagy enhancement. We concluded that pharmacologically induction of autophagy by rapamycin may represent a useful therapeutic strategy as disease-modifiers in PD.
Brown adipose tissue (BAT), body and brain temperatures, as well as behavioral activity, arterial pressure and heart rate, increase episodically during the waking (dark) phase of the circadian cycle in rats. Phase-linking of combinations of these ultradian (&lt;24 h) events has previously been noted, but no synthesis of their overall interrelationships has emerged. We hypothesized that they are coordinated by brain central command, and that BAT thermogenesis, itself controlled by the brain, contributes to increases in brain and body temperature. We used chronically implanted instruments to measure combinations of bat, brain and body temperatures, behavioral activity, tail artery blood flow, and arterial pressure and heart rate, in conscious freely moving Sprague-Dawley rats during the 12-h dark active period. Ambient temperature was kept constant for any particular 24-h day, varying between 22 and 27 degrees C on different days. Increases in BAT temperature (&gt; or = 0.5 degrees C) occurred in an irregular episodic manner every 94+/-43 min (mean+/-SD). Varying the temperature over a wider range (18-30 degrees C) on different days did not change the periodicity, and neither body nor brain temperature fell before BAT temperature episodic increases. These increases are thus unlikely to reflect thermoregulatory homeostasis. Episodic BAT thermogenesis still occurred in food-deprived rats. Behavioral activity, arterial pressure (18+/-5 mmHg every 98+/-49 min) and heart rate (86+/-31 beats/min) increased approximately 3 min before each increase in BAT temperature. Increases in BAT temperature (1.1+/-0.4 degrees C) were larger than corresponding increases in brain (0.8+/-0.4 degrees C) and body (0.6+/-0.3 degrees C) temperature and the BAT episodes commenced 2-3 min before body and brain episodes, suggesting that BAT thermogenesis warms body and brain. Hippocampal 5-8 Hz theta rhythm, indicating active engagement with the environment, increased before the behavioral and autonomic events, suggesting coordination by brain central command as part of the 1-2 h ultradian basic rest-activity cycle (BRAC) proposed by Kleitman.
Recently, we have reported that high physiological estradiol level during the proestrus phase of the estrous cycle or systemic estradiol administration in ovariectomized rats decreases formalin-induced temporomandibular joint nociception. However, the mechanisms underlying the antinociceptive effect of estradiol are presently unknown. In this study, we used the temporomandibular joint formalin model in rats to investigate whether estradiol decreases nociception by a peripheral non-genomic mechanism, and if so, whether this mechanism is mediated by the activation of the nitric oxide-cyclic guanosine monophosphate signaling pathway and of opioid receptors. The administration of estradiol into the ipsilateral, but not into the contralateral temporomandibular joint significantly reduced formalin-induced temporomandibular joint nociception in ovariectomized and diestrus but not in proestrus females. However, the administration of the estrogen receptor antagonist ICI 182780 into the ipsilateral, but not into the contralateral temporomandibular joint blocked the antinociceptive effect of serum estradiol in proestrus females, suggesting that the physiological effect of estradiol in nociception is mediated, at least in part, by a peripheral mechanism. The administration of estradiol into the ipisilateral temporomandibular joint did not affect formalin-induced nociception in male rats. The antinociceptive effect of temporomandibular joint estradiol administration in ovariectomized and diestrus females was mimicked by estradiol conjugated with bovine serum albumin, which does not diffuse through the plasma membrane, and was blocked by the estrogen receptor antagonist ICI 182780. The administration of the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor (nitro-l-arginine) or of a guanylate cyclase inhibitor (1H-(1,2,4)-oxadiasolo (4,2-a) quinoxalin-1-one) into the ipsilateral, but not into the contralateral temporomandibular joint blocked the antinociceptive effect of estradiol and of estradiol conjugated with bovine serum albumin, while the opioid receptor antagonist naloxone had no effect. These findings suggest that estradiol decreases temporomandibular joint nociception in female rats through a peripheral non-genomic activation of the nitric oxide-cyclic guanosine monophosphate signaling pathway.
Isoflurane preconditioning improved short-term neurological outcome after focal brain ischemia in adult rats. It is not known whether desflurane induces a delayed phase of preconditioning in the brain and whether isoflurane preconditioning-induced neuroprotection is long-lasting. Two months-old Sprague-Dawley male rats were exposed to or were not exposed to isoflurane or desflurane for 30 min and then subjected to a 90 min middle cerebral arterial occlusion (MCAO) at 24 h after the anesthetic exposure. Neurological outcome was evaluated at 24 h or 4 weeks after the MCAO. The density of the terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase biotinylated UTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) positive cells in the penumbral cerebral cortex were assessed 4 weeks after the MCAO. Also, rats were pretreated with isoflurane or desflurane for 30 min. Their cerebral cortices were harvested for quantifying B-cell lymphoma-2 (Bcl-2) expression 24 h later. Here, we showed that pretreatment with 1.1% or 2.2% isoflurane, but not with 6% or 12% desflurane, increased Bcl-2 expression in the cerebral cortex, improved neurological functions and reduced infarct volumes evaluated at 24 h after the MCAO. Isoflurane preconditioning also improved neurological functions and reduced brain infarct volumes in rats evaluated 4 weeks after the MCAO. Isoflurane preconditioning also decreased the density of TUNEL-positive cells in the penumbral cerebral cortex. We conclude that isoflurane preconditioning improves short-term and long-term neurological outcome and reduces delayed cell death after transient focal brain ischemia in adult rats. Bcl-2 may be involved in the isoflurane preconditioning effect. Desflurane pretreatment did not induce a delayed phase of neuroprotection.
Female cynomolgus monkeys exhibit different degrees of reproductive dysfunction with moderate metabolic and psychosocial stress. When stressed with a paradigm of relocation and diet for 60 days or two menstrual cycles, highly stress resilient monkeys (HSR) continued to ovulate during the stress cycles whereas stress sensitive monkeys (SS) did not. After cessation of stress, monkeys characterized as HSR or SS were administered placebo (PL) or S-citalopram (CIT) for 15 weeks at doses that normalized ovarian steroid secretion in the SS animals and that maintained blood CIT levels in a therapeutic range. After euthanasia, the brain was perfused with 4% paraformaldehyde. The pontine midbrain was blocked and sectioned at 25 microm. The expression of four genes pivotal to serotonin neural function was assessed in the four groups of monkeys (n=4/group). Fev (fifth Ewing variant) ETS transcription factor, tryptophan hydroxylase 2 (TPH2), the serotonin reuptake transporter (SERT), and the 5HT1A autoreceptor were determined at 7-8 levels of the dorsal raphe nucleus with in situ hybridization (ISH) using radiolabeled- and digoxygenin-incorporated riboprobes. Positive pixel area and cell number were measured with Slidebook 4.2 in the digoxigenin assay for Fev. Optical density (OD) and positive pixel area were measured with NIH Image software in the radiolabeled assays for TPH2, SERT and 5HT1A. All data were analyzed with two-way ANOVA. SS monkeys had significantly fewer Fev-positive cells and lower Fev-positive pixel area in the dorsal raphe than HSR monkeys. SS monkeys also had significantly lower levels of TPH2, SERT and 5HT1A mRNAs in the dorsal raphe nucleus than HSR monkeys. However, CIT did not alter the expression of either Fev, TPH2, SERT or 5HT1A mRNAs. These data suggest that SS monkeys have fewer serotonin (5-HT) neurons than HSR monkeys, and that they have deficient Fev expression, which in turn, leads to deficient TPH2, SERT and 5HT1A expression. In addition, the therapeutic effect of CIT is probably achieved through mechanisms other than alteration of 5-HT-related gene expression.
Ghrelin, an orexigenic hormone produced by the stomach, is secreted in anticipation of scheduled meals and in correlation with anticipatory locomotor activity. We hypothesized that ghrelin is directly implicated in stimulating locomotor activity in anticipation of scheduled meals. To test this hypothesis, we observed 24 h patterns of locomotor activity in mice with targeted mutations of the ghrelin receptor gene (GHSR KO) and wild-type littermates, all given access to food for 4 h daily for 14 days. While wild type (WT) and GHSR KO mice produced increases in anticipatory locomotor activity, anticipatory locomotor activity in GHSR KO mice was attenuated (P&lt;0.05). These behavioral measures correlated with attenuated levels of Fos immunoreactivity in a number of hypothalamic nuclei from GHSR KO placed on the same restricted feeding schedule for 7 days and sacrificed at ZT4. Interestingly, seven daily i.p. ghrelin injections mimicked hypothalamic Fos expression patterns to those seen in mice under restricted feeding schedules. These data suggest that ghrelin acts in the hypothalamus to augment locomotor activity in anticipation of scheduled meals.
We used an operant delayed spatial alternation task to examine the role of rat dorsomedial prefrontal cortex (dmPFC) in spatial working memory. The task was designed to restrict movements during the delay period to minimize use of motor-mediating strategies. Inactivation of dmPFC (muscimol) resulted in increased errors and increased the temporal variability of responding. Animals did not show perseveration after errors (i.e., responding again at the erroneous location). Under control conditions, the time between spatial responses was greater and more variable before errors as compared to correct responses. These effects were eliminated when muscimol was infused into dmPFC. Trial outcome also affected movement and delay times in the next trial. This effect was diminished with muscimol in dmPFC. By contrast, when muscimol was infused in dorsal agranular insular cortex (AId)-a region that is strongly interconnected with dorsomedial prefrontal regions-there was no effect on delayed spatial alternation performance. These experiments confirm that dmPFC is necessary for successful delayed spatial alternation and establish that there is a relationship between response time variability and trial outcome that depends on dorsomedial prefrontal function.
Clinical human and animal studies show that upper cervical spinal cord stimulation (cSCS) has beneficial effects in treatment of some cerebral disorders, including those due to deficient cerebral circulation. However, the underlying mechanisms and neural pathways activated by cSCS using clinical parameters remain unclear. We have shown that a cSCS-induced increase in cerebral blood flow is mediated via rostral spinal dorsal column fibers implying that the dorsal column nuclei (DCN) are involved. The aim of this study was to examine how cSCS modulated neuronal activity of DCN. A spring-loaded unipolar ball electrode was placed on the left dorsal column at cervical (C2) spinal cord in pentobarbital anesthetized, ventilated and paralyzed male rats. Stimulation with frequencies of 1, 10, 20, 50 Hz (0.2 ms, 10 s) and an intensity of 90% of motor threshold was applied. Extracellular potentials of single neurons in DCN were recorded and examined for effects of cSCS. In total, 109 neurons in DCN were isolated and tested for effects of cSCS. Out of these, 56 neurons were recorded from the cuneate nucleus and 53 from the gracile nucleus. Mechanical somatic stimuli altered activity of 87/109 (83.2%) examined neurons. Of the neurons receiving somatic input, 62 were classified as low-threshold and 25 as wide dynamic range. The cSCS at 1 Hz changed the activity of 96/109 (88.1%) of the neurons. Neuronal responses to cSCS exhibited multiple patterns of excitation and/or inhibition: excitation (E, n=21), inhibition (I, n=19), E-I (n=37), I-E (n=8) and E-I-E (n=11). Furthermore, cSCS with high-frequency (50 Hz) altered the activity of 92.7% (51/55) of tested neurons, including 30 E, 24 I, and 2 I-E responses to cSCS. These data suggested that cSCS significantly modulates neuronal activity in DCN. These nuclei might serve as a neural relay for cSCS-induced effects on cerebral dysfunction and diseases.
L-type calcium channels play an essential role in synaptic activity-dependent gene expression and are implicated in long-term alterations in synaptic efficacy underlying learning and memory in the hippocampus. The two principal pore-forming subunits of L-type Ca2+ channels expressed in neurons are the Ca(v)1.2 (alpha(1C)) or Ca(v)1.3 (alpha(1D)) subtypes. Experimental evidence suggests that calcium entry through Ca(v)1.2 and Ca(v)1.3 Ca2+ channels occurs in close proximity to key signalling molecules responsible for triggering signalling pathways leading to transcriptional responses. Determining the subcellular distribution of Ca(v)1.2 and Ca(v)1.3 L-type channels in neurons is clearly important for unravelling the molecular mechanisms underlying long-term alterations in neuronal function. In this study, we used immunogold-labelling techniques and electron-microscopy (EM) to analyse the subcellular distribution and density of both Ca(v)1.2 and Ca(v)1.3 Ca2+ channels in rat hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cells in vivo. We confirm that both Ca(v)1.2 and Ca(v)1.3 channel subtypes are predominantly but not exclusively located in postsynaptic dendritic processes and somata. Both Ca(v)1.2 and Ca(v)1.3 are distributed throughout the dendritic tree. However, the smallest (distal) dendritic processes and spines have proportionally more calcium channels inserted into their plasma membrane than located within cytoplasmic compartments indicating the potential targeting of calcium channels to microdomains within neurons. Ca(v)1.2 and Ca(v)1.3 Ca2+ channels are located at the postsynaptic density and also at extra-synaptic sites. The location of L-type Ca(v)1.2 and Ca(v)1.3 channels in distal dendrites and spines would thus place them at appropriate sites where they could initiate synapse to nucleus signalling.
GABA(A) receptors composed of the gamma2 and delta subunits have distinct properties, functions and subcellular localization, and pathological conditions differentially modulate their surface expression. Recent studies demonstrate that acute seizure activity accelerated trafficking of the gamma2 and beta2/3 subunits but not that of the delta subunit. The trafficking of the gamma2 and beta2/3 subunits is relatively well understood but that of the delta subunit has not been studied. We compared intracellular accumulation of the delta and gamma2 subunits in cultured hippocampal neurons using an antibody feeding technique. Intracellular accumulation of the delta subunit peaked between 3 and 6 h, whereas, maximum internalization of the gamma2 subunit took 30 min. In the organotypic hippocampal slice cultures internalization of the delta subunit studied using a biotinylation assay revealed highest accumulation between 3 and 5 h and that of the gamma2 subunit between 15 and 45 min. The surface half-life of the delta subunit was 171 min in cultured hippocampal neurons and 102 min in the organotypic hippocampal slice cultures. In the subsequent studies, internalization of the delta subunit was found to be dependent on network activity but independent of ligand-binding. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) reduced buildup of the delta subunit in the cytoplasmic compartments and increased its surface expression, and this BDNF effect was independent of network activity. BDNF effect was mediated by activation of TrkB receptors, PLCgamma and PKC. Increase in the basal PKC activity augmented cell surface stability of the delta subunit. These results suggest that rate of intracellular accumulation of the delta subunit was distinct and modulated by BDNF.
Recent studies have indicated a role for the endocannabinoid system in the behavioral and physiological effects of alcohol (ethanol), particularly ethanol seeking behaviors. However, its role in modulating binge-like intake and/or the mechanism by which it may exert these effects remain poorly understood. The current study used a newly developed strain-specific animal model of binge drinking, dubbed 'Drinking In the Dark' (DID), to determine if facilitation of the endocannabinoid system with the synthetic cannabinoid agonist WIN 55-212,2 (WIN) modulates binge-like ethanol intake in male C57BL/6J (B6) mice. Based on the results of these systemic (i.p.) manipulations, and evidence in support of the involvement of subregions of the Ventral Tegmental Area (VTA) in governing self-administration of ethanol (Rodd-Henricks et al., (2000) Psychopharmacology (Berl) 149(3):217-224) as well as binge-like intake using the DID model (Moore &amp; Boehm, (2009 Behav Neurosci 123(3):555-563), we extended these findings to evaluate the role of the endocannabinoid system within the anterior and posterior sub regions of the VTA using site-specific microinjections. Consistent with previous research, the lowest systemic dose of WIN (0.5 mg/kg) significantly increased ethanol intake in the first 30 minutes of access whereas the two highest doses (1 and 2 mg/kg) decreased ethanol intake within this time interval. Intra-posterior ventral tegmental area (pVTA) (but not aVTA (anterior ventral tegmental area) microinjections elicited time-dependent and dose-dependent increases (0.25 and 0.5 mug/side) and decreases (2.5 mug/side) in ethanol intake. Importantly, follow-up studies revealed that in some cases alterations in fluid consumption may have been influenced by competing locomotor activity (or inactivity). The present data are consistent with previous research in that agonism of the endocannabinoid system increases ethanol intake in rodents and implicate the pVTA in the modulation of drinking to intoxication. Moreover, the dose-dependent alterations in locomotor activity emphasize the importance of directly assessing multiple (possibly competing) behaviors when evaluating drug effects on voluntary consumption.
The supplementary motor area (SMA) is thought to contribute to the generation of anticipatory postural adjustments (APAs, which act to stabilize supporting body segments prior to movement), but its precise role remains unclear. In addition, participants with Parkinson's disease (PD) exhibit impaired function of the SMA as well as decreased amplitudes and altered timing of the APA during step initiation, but the contribution of the SMA to these impairments also remains unclear. To determine how the SMA contributes to generating the APA and to the impaired APAs of participants with PD, we examined the voluntary steps of eight participants with PD and eight participants without PD, before and after disrupting the SMA and dorsolateral premotor cortex (dlPMC), in separate sessions, with 1-Hz repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS). Both groups exhibited decreased durations of their APAs after rTMS over the SMA but not over the dlPMC. Peak amplitudes of the APAs were unaffected by rTMS to either site. The symptom severity of the participants with PD positively correlated with the extent that rTMS over the SMA affected the durations of their APAs. The results suggest that the SMA contributes to the timing of the APA and that participants with PD exhibit impaired timing of their APAs, in part, due to progressive dysfunction of circuits associated with the SMA.
Peripheral neuropathy represents an important complication of diabetes involving a spectrum of structural, functional and biochemical alterations in peripheral nerves. Recent observations obtained in our laboratory have shown that the levels of neuroactive steroids present in the sciatic nerve of rat raised diabetic by a single injection of streptozotocin (STZ) are reduced and that, in the same experimental model, treatment with neuroactive steroids, such as progesterone, testosterone and their derivatives show neuroprotective effects. On this basis, an interesting therapeutic strategy could be to increase the levels of neuroactive steroids directly in the nervous system. With this perspective, ligands of translocator protein-18 kDa (TSPO) may represent an interesting option. TSPO is mainly present in the mitochondrial outer membrane, where it promotes the translocation of cholesterol to the inner mitochondrial membrane, and, as demonstrated in other cellular systems, it allows the transformation of cholesterol into pregnenolone and the increase of steroid levels. In the diabetic model of STZ rat, we have here assessed whether treatment with Ro5-4864 (i.e., a ligand of TSPO) could increase the low levels of neuroactive steroids in sciatic nerve and consequently to be protective in this experimental model. Data obtained by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry show that treatment with Ro5-4864 was able to significantly stimulate the low levels of pregnenolone, progesterone and dihydrotestosterone observed in the sciatic nerves of diabetic rats. The treatment with Ro5-4864 also counteracted the impairment of NCV and thermal threshold, restored skin innervation density and P0 mRNA levels, and improved Na+,K+-ATPase activity. In conclusion, data here reported show for the first time that a TSPO ligand, such as Ro5-4864, is effective in reducing the severity of diabetic neuropathy through a local increase of neuroactive steroid levels.
Cholesterol is required in the brain for synaptogenesis and its turnover is critical for cerebral functions. Several proteins involved in cholesterol handling and metabolism are transcriptionally regulated by the nuclear liver X receptor (LXR) alpha and beta. Sterol 27-hydroxylase (CYP27) is a ubiquitously expressed enzyme involved in cholesterol metabolism. Notably, its deficiency causes a disease characterized by progressive neurologic impairment. With the final goal to understand the pathophysiological role of CYP27A1 in the CNS, we studied the expression pattern of Cyp27a1 and other related genes in primary cultures of rat glia and neurons. Secondly, given the pivotal role of LXR in the regulation of cholesterol homeostasis, we investigated the effects of its activation on the expression of Cyp27a1.We found that primary astrocytes express different sterol hydroxylases and are able to uptake exogenous 27-hydroxycholesterol. We found that both microglia and astrocytes express preferentially Lxrbeta. However, despite this similarity, we observed cell-specific responsiveness of known and novel (including Cyp27a1) target genes to LXR activation. The increase of mRNA and protein levels in treated astrocytes is paralleled by transactivation of the proximal Cyp27a1 promoter in transfected astrocytes. We suggest that the astrocyte-restricted up-regulation of Cyp27a1 may be ascribable to differential expression of transcriptional co-activators. Given the role of astrocytes in maintaining brain homeostasis, we hypothesize that impairment of CYP27 activity in these cells may alter critical features of the astrocytes, from the handling and delivery of cholesterol to neurons to the release of signaling molecules.
DYT1, the most common inherited dystonia, is caused by a common dominant mutation in the TOR1A gene that leads to a glutamic acid deletion in the protein torsinA. Wild-type torsinA locates preferentially in the endoplasmic reticulum while the disease-linked mutant accumulates in the nuclear envelope. As a result, it has been proposed that DYT1 pathogenesis could result either from transcriptional dysregulation caused by abnormal interactions of mutant torsinA with nuclear envelope proteins, or from a loss of torsinA function in the endoplasmic reticulum that would impair specific neurobiological pathways. Aiming to determine whether one or both of these potential mechanisms are implicated in DYT1 pathogenesis, we completed unbiased transcriptional and proteomic profiling in well-characterized neural cell lines that inducibly express wild-type or mutant torsinA. These experiments demonstrated that the accumulation of mutant torsinA in the nuclear envelope is not sufficient to cause transcriptional dysregulation. However, we detected expression changes at the protein level that, together with other reports, suggest a potential implication of torsinA on energy metabolism and regulation of the redox state. Furthermore, several proteins identified in this study have been previously linked to other forms of dystonia. In conclusion, our results argue against the hypothesis of transcriptional dysregulation in DYT1 dystonia, suggesting potential alternative pathogenic pathways.
Cooling is one of several reversible methods used to inactivate local regions of the brain. Here the effect of cooling was studied in the primary visual cortex (area 17) of anaesthetized and paralyzed cats. When the cortical surface temperature was cooled to about 0 degrees C, the temperature 2 mm below the surface was 20 degrees C. The lateral spread of cold was uniform over a distance of at least approximately 700 microm from the cooling loop. When the cortex was cooled the visually evoked responses to drifting sine wave gratings were strongly reduced in proportion to the cooling temperature, but the mean spontaneous activity of cells decreased only slightly. During cooling the strongest effect on the orientation tuning curve was on the peak response and the orientation bandwidth did not change, suggesting a divisive mechanism. Our results show that the cortical circuit is robust in the face of cooling and retains its essential functionality, albeit with reduced responsiveness. The width of the extracellular spike waveform measured at half height increased by 50% on average during cooling in almost all cases and recovered after re-warming. The increase in spike width was inversely correlated with the change in response amplitude to the optimal stimulus. The extracellular spike shape can thus be used as a reliable and fast method to assess whether changes in the responses of a neuron are due to direct cooling or distant effects on a source of its afferents.
Gephyrin is a tubulin-binding protein that acts as a scaffold for clustering glycine and GABA(A) receptors at postsynaptic sites. In this study, the role of gephyrin on GABA(A) receptor function was assessed at the post-translational level, using gephyrin-specific single chain antibody fragments (scFv-gephyrin). When expressed in cultured rat hippocampal neurons as a fusion protein containing a nuclear localization signal, scFv-gephyrin were able to remove endogenous gephyrin from GABA(A) receptor clusters. Immunocytochemical experiments revealed a significant reduction in the number of synaptic gamma2-subunit containing GABA(A) receptors and a significant decrease in the density of the GABAergic presynaptic marker vesicular GABA transporter (VGAT). These effects were associated with a slow down of the onset kinetics, a reduction in the amplitude and in the frequency of miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents (mIPSCs). The quantitative analysis of current responses to ultrafast application of GABA suggested that changes in onset kinetics resulted from modifications in the microscopic gating of GABA(A) receptors and in particular from a reduced entry into the desensitized state. In addition, hampering gephyrin function with scFv-gephyrin induced a significant reduction in GABA(A) receptor-mediated tonic conductance. This effect was probably dependent on the decrease in GABAergic innervation and in GABA release from presynaptic nerve terminals. These results indicate that gephyrin is essential not only for maintaining synaptic GABA(A) receptor clusters in the right position but also for regulating both phasic and tonic inhibition.
The 5-HT(6) receptor is predominantly expressed in the CNS and has been implicated in the regulation of cognitive function. Antagonists of the 5-HT(6) receptor improve cognitive performance in a number of preclinical models and have recently been found to be effective in Alzheimer's disease patients. Systemic administration of 5-HT(6) antagonists increases the release of acetylcholine and glutamate in the frontal cortex and dorsal hippocampus. In contrast, the selective 5-HT(6) agonist, WAY-181187, can elicit robust increases in extracellular levels of GABA. The reported behavioral and neurochemical effects of 5-HT(6) receptor ligands raise the possibility that the 5-HT(6) receptor may modulate synaptic plasticity in the hippocampus. In the present study, selective pharmacological tools were employed to determine the effect of 5-HT(6) receptor activation on long-term potentiation (LTP) in brain slices containing area CA1 of the hippocampus. While having no effect on baseline synaptic transmission, the results demonstrate that the selective 5-HT(6) agonist, WAY-181187, attenuated LTP over a narrow dose range (100-300 nM). The increase in the slope of the field excitatory post synaptic potential (fEPSP) caused by theta burst stimulation in brain slices treated with the most efficacious dose of WAY-181187 (200 nM) was 80.1+/-4.0% of that observed in controls. This effect was dose-dependently blocked by the selective 5-HT(6) antagonist, SB-399885. WAY-181187 also increased the frequency of spontaneous GABA release in area CA1. As assessed by measuring and evaluating spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents (sIPSCs), 200 nM WAY-181187 increased sIPSC frequency by 3.4+/-0.9 Hz. This increase in GABA sIPSCs was prevented by the selective 5-HT(6) antagonist SB-399885 (300 nM). Taken together, these results suggest that the 5-HT(6) receptor plays a role in the modulation of synaptic plasticity in hippocampal area CA1 and that the regulation of GABAergic interneuron activity may underlie the cognition enhancing effects of 5-HT(6) antagonists.
Multi-sensory integration studies have shown that combining heterogeneous signals can optimize motor performance by reducing errors inherent to any single modality. However, it has also been suggested that errors could arise from erroneous transformations between heterogeneous coordinate systems. Here we investigated the effect of visuo-proprioceptive integration on the control of multi-joint arm movements by manipulating target modality. When the target was visual, movement control required the integration of visual target signals with proprioceptive signals about limb configuration. In contrast, when the target was the unseen fingertip, movement control relied solely on proprioceptive signals since visual feedback of hand position was precluded. We hypothesized that a faulty integration of visual target signals with proprioceptive arm signals would result in a less accurate planning of visually-targeted movements with respect to proprioceptively-targeted movements. Different inter-joint coordinations patterns were tested by varying starting hand position. Results showed larger initial trajectory deviations from target direction for visually-targeted movements involving substantial shoulder and elbow motions. Inverse dynamic analysis revealed that these deviations were associated with less efficient intersegmental coordination. The control of visually-targeted movements thus appeared sub-optimal compared to proprioceptively-targeted movements when considering theoretical models of motor planning assuming kinematic or dynamic optimizations. Additional experiments further highlighted the effect of target position, and visual feedback of starting hand position, on motor planning for proprioceptively- and visually-targeted movements. Our findings suggest that the integration of heterogeneous sensory signals related to hand and target positions introduces errors in motor planning.
Findings from single-solution plus-maze tasks that require the use of either place or response learning indicate that post-training intra-basolateral amygdala (BLA) administration of the anxiogenic alpha-2 adrenoreceptor antagonist RS 79948 can both enhance dorsal striatal-dependent response learning and impair hippocampus-dependent place learning. Whether post-training peripheral administration of RS 79948 can also enhance and impair response and place learning respectively, is not known. If peripheral drug administration can also produce this &quot;dual&quot; effect on cognitive and habit memory, it would be of interest to know whether the functional integrity of the BLA is critical. In order to examine these questions, the present experiments combined peripheral administration of RS 79948 with concurrent neural inactivation of the BLA. Adult male Long-Evans rats were trained in place or response learning tasks in a water plus-maze. On days 1-3 of training, rats received post-training peripheral injections of saline or RS 79948 (0.1 mg/kg) combined with intra-BLA injections of saline or the sodium channel blocker bupivacaine (1.0% solution, 0.5 microl). Post-training peripheral injections of RS 79948 enhanced acquisition of response learning, and impaired acquisition of place learning. Bupivacaine infusions into the BLA had no effect on acquisition of either task. However, intra-BLA infusions of bupivacaine blocked both the enhancement of response learning and the impairment of place learning produced by RS 79948. Taken together, the findings indicate that although the functional integrity of BLA is not necessary for acquisition of place and response learning, BLA activity is critical in order for peripheral injections of an anxiogenic drug to differentially modulate hippocampus-dependent and dorsal striatal-dependent memory.
The globus pallidus (GP) plays an important role in basal ganglia circuitry. In contrast to the well-characterized actions of dopamine on striatal neurons, the functional role of the dopamine innervation of GP is still not clearly determined. The present study aimed to investigate the effects of intrapallidal injection of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) on rotational behavior induced by apomorphine, on the loss of dopamine cell bodies in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) and fibers in the GP and striatum and on in vivo extracellularly-recorded GP neurons in the rat. Injection of 6-OHDA into GP induced severe loss of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive (TH-IR) fibers in GP (-85%) with a reduction in the number of TH-IR cell bodies in the SNc (-52%) and fibers in the striatum (-50%). S.c. injection of apomorphine in these rats induced a moderate number of turns (26+/-6 turns/5 min). Electrophysiological recordings show that 6-OHDA injection in GP induced a significant decrease of the firing rate of GP neurons (16.02+/-1.11 versus 24.14+/-1.58 spikes/sec in control animals and 22.83+/-1.28 in sham animals, one-way ANOVA, P&lt;0.0001) without any change in the firing pattern (chi(2)=1.03, df=4, P=0.90). Our results support the premise of the existence of collaterals of SNc dopaminergic axons projecting to the striatum and GP and that dopamine plays a role in the modulation of the firing rate but not the firing pattern of GP neurons. Our data provide important insights into the functional role of the SNc-GP dopaminergic pathway suggesting that dopamine depletion in GP may participate in the development of motor disabilities.
Effective treatment of chronic pain with morphine is limited by decreases in the drug's analgesic action with chronic administration (antinociceptive tolerance). Because opioids are mainstays of pain management, restoring their efficacy has great clinical importance. We have recently reported that formation of peroxynitrite (ONOO(-), PN) in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord plays a critical role in the development of morphine antinociceptive tolerance and have further documented that nitration and enzymatic inactivation of mitochondrial superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) at that site provides a source for this nitroxidative species. We now report for the first time that antinociceptive tolerance in mice is also associated with the inactivation of MnSOD at supraspinal sites. Inactivation of MnSOD led to nitroxidative stress as evidenced by increased levels of products of oxidative DNA damage and activation of the nuclear factor poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase in whole brain homogenates. Co-administration of morphine with potent Mn porphyrin-based peroxynitrite scavengers, Mn(III) 5,10,15,20-tetrakis(N-ethylpyridinium-2-yl)porphyrin (MnTE-2-PyP5+) and Mn(III) 5,10,15,20-tetrakis(N-n-hexylpyridinium-2-yl)porphyrin (MnTnHex-2-PyP5+) (1) restored the enzymatic activity of MnSOD, (2) attenuated PN-derived nitroxidative stress, and (3) blocked the development of morphine-induced antinociceptive tolerance. The more lipophilic analogue, MnTnHex-2-PyP5+ was able to cross the blood-brain barrier at higher levels than its lipophylic counterpart MnTE-2-PyP5+ and was about 30-fold more efficacious. Collectively, these data suggest that PN-mediated enzymatic inactivation of supraspinal MnSOD provides a source of nitroxidative stress, which in turn contributes to central sensitization associated with the development of morphine antinociceptive tolerance. These results support our general contention that PN-targeted therapeutics may have potential as adjuncts to opiates in pain management.
Previously, we have shown that chronic intermittent hypoxia (CIH) impairs baroreflex control of heart rate and augments aortic baroreceptor afferent function. In the present study, we examined whether CIH induces structural changes of aortic afferent axons and terminals. Young-adult Fischer 344 (F344, 4 months old) rats were exposed to room air (RA) or CIH for 35-45 days. After 14-24 days of exposure, they received tracer DiI injection into the left nodose ganglion to anterogradely label vagal afferent nerves. After surgery, animals were returned to their cages to continue RA or CIH exposure. Twenty-one days after DiI injection, the animals were sacrificed and the aortic arch was examined using confocal microscopy. In both RA and CIH rats, we found that DiI-labeled vagal afferent axons entered the wall of the aortic arch, then fanned out and branched into large receptive fields with numerous terminals (flower-sprays, end-nets and free endings). Vagal afferent axons projected much more to the anterior wall than to the posterior wall. In general, the flower-sprays, end-nets and free endings were widely and similarly distributed in the aortic arch of both groups. However, several salient differences between RA and CIH rats were found. Compared to RA control, CIH rats appeared to have larger vagal afferent receptive fields. The CIH rats had many abnormal flower-sprays, end-nets, and free endings which were intermingled and diffused into &quot;bush-like&quot; structures. However, the total number of flower-sprays was comparable (P&gt;0.05). Since there was a large variance of the size of flower-sprays, we only sampled the 10 largest flower-sprays from each animal. CIH substantially increased the size of large flower-sprays (P&lt;0.01). Numerous free endings with enlarged varicosities were identified, resembling axonal sprouting structures. Taken together, our data indicate that CIH induces significant remodeling of afferent terminal structures in the aortic arch of F344 rats. We suggest that such an enlargement of vagal afferent terminals may contribute to altered aortic baroreceptor function following CIH.
Action potentials (APs) provide the primary means of rapid information transfer in the nervous system. Where exactly these signals are initiated in neurons has been a basic question in neurobiology and the subject of extensive study. Converging lines of evidence indicate that APs are initiated in a discrete and highly specialized portion of the axon-the axon initial segment (AIS). The authors review key aspects of the organization and function of the AIS and focus on recent work that has provided important insights into its electrical signaling properties. In addition to its main role in AP initiation, the new findings suggest that the AIS is also a site of complex AP modulation by specific types of ion channels localized to this axonal domain.
Estradiol is a potent steroid of both gonadal and neuronal origin that exerts profound and enduring effects on the brain as it develops. Differences in estradiol production in males and females underlie the establishment of many sexually dimorphic brain characteristics. Two paradigm shifts in the understanding of estradiol and its actions have expanded the view from one of slow narrowly controlled nuclear transcription to include rapid effects initiated at the membrane and inducible by locally synthesized steroid. A survey of estradiol actions reveals regional specificity underlying opposing effects such that estradiol induces cell death in one region but prevents it in another or promotes synaptogenesis in one region but retards it in the other. Similarly, estradiol is neuroprotective or neurodamaging and enhances excitation or dampens excitation, depending on the model and neurotransmitter under study. Understanding the diverse actions of estradiol in different brain regions under differing conditions is essential to harnessing the tremendous therapeutic potential of this endogenous naturally occurring and efficacious neural modulator.
This article offers a unifying theoretical interpretation of known abnormalities in people with autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) in four psychological domains, namely emotion, memory, sensation-perception, and motor skills. It proposes that in all four domains three levels of processing can be identified: a basic level, an integrative level, and a &quot;logical&quot; or higher-order level. It also notes that in typically developing people, there is evidence that the integrative level is subserved by subregions of the medial prefrontal cortex. The major argument of the article is to propose and argue that the integrative level in all four domains is responsible for common atypicalities in people with ASDs.
Astrocytes are increasingly recognized for their impact on neuronal function and viability in health and disease. Hypoxia has Janus-faced influences on astrocytes and their ability to support neuronal viability. For example, hypoxia induces astrocyte-dependent protection of neurons following hypoxia preconditioning. Yet, hypoxia induces processes in astrocytes that augment neuronal death in other situations, such as the coincidence of hypoxia with inflammatory signaling. A complex array of gene expression is induced by hypoxia within astrocytes and neurons through multiple transcription factors and intracellular molecular pathways. The hypoxia inducible factors (HIFs) are transcription factors that are likely instrumental in orchestrating adaptive and pathological functions of astrocytes. As such, the HIFs are postulated to mediate both adaptive and pathological functions during hypoxia/ ischemia. Identifying the conditions under which hypoxia induces signaling in astrocytes that alters autonomous or neuronal survival will undoubtedly have important implications regarding the development of new strategies for stroke treatment.




Information on the science of early child development has become increasingly available to the public at large. Physicians have an important role in translating the science into accessible language as well as activities for parents and caregivers to foster healthy development. A strategy to engage primary care in Ontario through the use of an enhanced 18-month well-baby visit is described.


Our review summarizes the five main studies conducted to evaluate the efficacy and pharmacokinetics of ropinirole prolonged release (PR) in Parkinson's disease (PD). The PR formulation was developed with Geomatrix coating technology in order to obtain constant pharmacokinetics throughout 24 hours. The areas under the curve were not significantly different from those observed with similar doses of ropinirole immediate-release (IR) formulation, administered 3 times a day, but concentration fluctuations were less for ropinirole PR (2-fold vs 5-fold). The efficacy study of the PR versus IR formulations showed non-inferiority of the PR formulation, similar tolerability and feasibility of overnight switches, and indicated that the optimal doses of ropinirole in patients with de novo PD is in the range of 8-12 mg/day. The efficacy study in PD patients with motor fluctuations treated with L-dopa showed that adding ropinirole PR significantly reduced &quot;off&quot; time and increased &quot;on&quot; time in comparison with placebo. The study with ropinirole as an add-on to L-dopa showed a reduced incidence of dyskinesias.
In the majority of Parkinson's disease patients, chronic dopamine replacement therapy leads to involuntary aimless movements known as l-dopa-induced dyskinesia. While mechanisms involved in dyskinesia occurrence are still unclear, dopamine receptors undoubtedly have a central role in their pathophysiology. Here we review current knowledge and evidence for their involvement in dyskinesia genesis and manifestation. We propose that an anti-dyskinetic strategy should target the D1/D3 signalling cascade, as targeting D2 receptor signalling seems to inherently convey anti-therapeutic effects deleterious to patients. As more molecular tools are made available, we will better understand the role of each receptor and its associated signalling cascade in Parkinson's disease and L-dopa-induced dyskinesia, hopefully in a way amenable to patients.

Restless legs syndrome (RLS) is a common condition characterized by an urge to move the legs, accompanied by uncomfortable or unpleasant sensations. Symptoms predominantly occur at rest in the evening or at night, and they are alleviated by moving the affected extremity or by walking. Recent European epidemiological studies reported an overall prevalence of RLS up to 10%, with a female preponderance. The prevalence rates reported in south-eastern Europe are lower, as are those in Asiatic populations. Although the aetiopathogenesis of RLS is still unknown, the rapid and dramatic improvement of RLS with dopaminergic compounds suggests a dopaminergic system dysfunction as the basic mechanism. Extensive data are available for l-dopa and dopamine receptor agonists, especially for pramipexole and ropinirole. Pharmacological treatment should be limited to those patients who suffer from clinically relevant RLS with impaired sleep quality or quality of life. Treatment on demand is a clinical need in RLS cases that present intermittent symptoms.
In the last two decades, the usefulness of dopamine receptor agonists in the symptomatic treatment of Parkinson' disease (PD) has been demonstrated in many randomized controlled clinical trials. The initial role of such compounds as an adjunctive therapy to L-dopa to improve motor fluctuations has now expanded to the treatment of early PD as initial monotherapy. The rationale for the use of dopamine receptor agonists in early disease is to delay or reduce the incidence of motor complications resulting from long-term L-dopa therapy, probably by virtue of less pulsatile stimulation of postsynaptic dopamine receptors. Indeed, controlled trials with both ergot and non-ergot dopamine receptor agonists, such as cabergoline, pergolide, pramipexole and ropinirole, have shown lower risk of motor fluctuations and dyskinesias than with L-dopa, when used as monotherapy in early PD patients. The benefit of agonists in preventing motor complications is, however, balanced by a smaller effect on motor symptoms compared with L-dopa. Moreover, a greater incidence of side-effects, particularly somnolence, hallucinations and leg oedema, occurs with dopamine receptor agonists. Because of the risk of fibrotic reactions, ergot derivatives (bromocriptine, cabergoline, and pergolide) are not recommended as first-line antiparkinsonian medication. In younger patients, who are usually more prone to developing L-dopa-induced motor complications, the initial treatment with dopamine receptor agonists can be recommended. Further pharmacological refinement of PD management with these drugs may result from new formulations of old drugs, such as once-daily prolonged-release ropinirole, or new agonists, such as the rotigotine patch, that can allow more continuous dopaminergic stimulation and improve patient compliance with the drug treatment. Theoretically, another advantage of dopamine receptor agonists is the potential for a neuroprotective effect, through many different mechanisms of actions. Preliminary controlled trials with pramipexole and ropinirole, although encouraging, did not provide conclusive proof of the disease-modifying effect of dopamine receptor agonists; large controlled clinical trials are now underway and results are expected soon.
A major focus in Parkinson's disease (PD) research is to produce drugs or other interventions that can slow or stop clinical progression. This should include an effect on both motor and non-motor symptoms and so target dopaminergic and non-dopaminergic pathways. It is logical to assume that the best chance of developing such therapies will be based on forming a better understanding of the aetiology and pathogenesis of PD and to identify critical molecular targets. There have been great advances in finding different genetic causes and risk factors for PD, but less so in the discovery of environmental contributions. The separate genetic causes still share common pathways to cell dysfunction and death, and these interconnect at several levels. Despite the major advances in genetics and PD pathogenesis, we still do not have good models of PD that can be used with confidence to accurately predict the effect of drugs on disease progression. Clinical trial design and study population selection are also areas that represent significant challenges to testing any putative neuro-protective agent. Several drugs have attracted attention as potential neuroprotective agents in PD. There are numerous studies demonstrating beneficial effects in the laboratory, but clinical efficacy for neuroprotection remains unproven.
The most challenging issue when testing putative neuroprotective agents for Parkinson's disease (PD) in clinical trials is the assessment of the effect of the treatment on the neurodegenerative process. By measuring changes in symptoms severity, clinical rating scales represent an important tool to rate the progression of the disease. However, the rating of clinical symptoms is dependent on the examiner and the neuroprotective effect can be masked by the symptomatic effect of the therapy. 18F-dopa PET and 123I-beta-CIT SPECT have been shown to be able to monitor the progressive loss of presynaptic nigrostriatal projections in PD and have been used as surrogate biomarkers of disease in several recent clinical trials. In this article the value of imaging as a biomarker for testing neuroprotective agents in PD is reviewed.
In eukaryotic cells intracellular components are mainly degraded by autophagy and the ubiquitin-proteasome system. Autophagy is more flexible compared with the ubiquitin-proteasome system and it is involved in the degradation of long-lived proteins and organelles, such as mitochondria, which cannot be degraded by the ubiquitin-proteasome. Although autophagy is able to compensate for ubiquitin-proteasome dysfunction, the opposite does not occur. Autophagy is frequently involved in neurodegeneration; however, there is no consensus on its role in cell survival, as it can be either neuroprotective or neurotoxic. With respect to dopaminergic neurons, there is evidence that autophagy occurs during damage to substantia nigra neurons such as in Parkinson's disease. Moreover, a variety of inherited forms of Parkinson's disease are characterized by mutated proteins that belong to the autophagy pathway. Inhibition of autophagy precipitates dopaminergic cell death, whereas autophagy activation rescues the death of nigral dopaminergic neurons induced by proteasome inhibitors. Taken together, this evidence suggests that autophagy improves the survival of dopaminergic cells.
There is increasing awareness that impulse control disorders (ICDs), including pathological gambling, hyper-sexuality, compulsive eating and buying, can occur as a complication of Parkinson's disease (PD). In addition, other impulsive or compulsive disorders have been reported to occur, including dopamine dysregulation syndrome (DDS) and punding. Case reports and prospective studies have reported an association between ICDs and the use of dopamine receptor agonists at higher doses, and DDS has been associated with L-dopa at higher doses or short-acting dopamine receptor agonists. Risk factors for ICDs include male sex, younger age or younger age at PD onset, a pre-PD history of ICD symptoms, history of substance use or bipolar disorder, and a personality profile characterized by impulsiveness. The management of clinically significant ICD symptoms should consist of modifications to dopamine replacement therapy, particularly dopamine receptor agonists, which is usually associated with an improvement of ICDs. There is no empirical evidence supporting the use of psychiatric drugs for ICDs in PD. Functional neuroimaging studies such as functional MRI and PET can investigate in vivo the neurobiological basis of these pathological behaviours.
Chronic L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-dopa) treatment of Parkinson Disease (PD) often leads to debilitating involuntary movements, termed L-dopa-induced dyskinesia (LID). The past few years have seen an unprecedented increase in understanding the neural mechanisms underlying LID manifestation in PD associating them mostly with D1 dopamine (DA) receptor sensitisation and deregulated homologous desensitisation as well as hyperactivity of both canonical and non-canonical DA signalling pathways. We here review these recent findings and demonstrate that decreasing DA receptor-mediated signalling (i) by increasing D1 receptor internalization and (ii) by inhibiting the Ras-Extracellular signal-Regulated Kinase 1/2 non-canonical DA signalling cascade, might reduced LID severity. Strategy (i) uses the lentivirus-mediated over-expression of the G protein-coupled receptor kinase 6 that control the desensitisation of DA receptors. Strategy (ii) proposes to use statins that, besides being specific inhibitors of the rate-limiting enzyme in cholesterol biosynthesis, can also inhibit Ras isoprenylation and activity and subsequently the phosphorylation of ERK1/2. Experiments were performed in both the rodent and primate models of LID. Those results strongly suggest that different strategies might represent a treatment option for managing LID in PD.
Clinical symptoms in Parkinson's disease (PD) comprise both motor and non-motor symptoms. In this disease, synucleinopathic-induced, nigral dopamine deficiency-related dysfunction of the basal ganglia is held responsible for the characteristic levodopa-responsive motor signs and symptoms (bradykinesia, hypokinesia, rigidity), known as parkinsonism and essential for clinical diagnosis in PD, as well as subtle motivational and cognitive dysfunctions. Some motor symptoms, such as tremor and postural instability, and most non-motor symptoms, however, are not fully levodopa-responsive, and suggested to manifest extranigral pathology. These symptoms include autonomic, sleep, sensory and neuropsychiatric symptoms, which in some cases may precede the first signs of motor parkinsonism, closely correlating with the progression of Lewy body pathology in PD. The recognition and treatment of these mostly under-recognized and under-treated symptoms is important, as these symptoms might have more impact on the quality of life in PD patients as compared to motor parkinsonism. On top of this, recognition of these manifestations in the prodromal phase of motor PD is critical to early diagnosis and treatment, as disease-modifying drugs, once identified, should be initiated as soon as possible, preferably in this premotor phase of the disease. On top of this, (non)motor extranigral symptoms in PD might also be of iatrogenic origin, whether directly as indirectly. During conventional, oral, dopaminomimetic treatment, the progressive loss of striatal dopaminergic nerve endings with the loss of cerebral dopamine storage capacity, renders the cerebral dopamine level fully dependent of the plasma levodopa levels, thus changing dopaminergic receptor stimulation from continuous to a more pulsatile pattern. Supposedly due to this process, neuroplastic changes in (sub)cortical dopaminergic pathways might cause therapeutic response fluctuations: motor and nonmotor fluctuations with anxiety- and panic-attacks and/or mood swings, dyskinesias and punding. Finally, dopaminomimetic pharmacotherapy may also induce extranigral non-motor drug-related direct adverse effects, such as impulse control disorders. In this article, non-motor signs and symptoms of extranigral PD-related pathology will be discussed, as well as the (suggested) criteria for diagnosis and treatment. Of course, also the recognition of the signs and symptoms of the prodromal (premotor) phase, suggestive for the presence of the PD, will be discussed. Iatrogenic non-motor symptoms, though, will not be further discussed.
This article reviews literature on three emergencies in Parkinson's disease (PD): Akinetic crisis, severe dyskinesias or life-threatening dyskinesias, and polyneuropathy during duodenal L-Dopa gel infusion treatment. Akinetic crisis is also known as Parkinsonian hyperpyrexia, Neuroleptic-like malignant syndrome, Acute akinesia, and Malignant syndrome in parkinsonism. It appears in 0.3% of PD patients/year, and is characterized in the most severe cases by total akinesia with dysphagia, hyperthermia, dysautonomia, increment of muscle enzymes and alterations of mental status, but it may also appear in less severe forms (&quot;forme frusta&quot;). At difference with the continuum of motor hypokinesias observed in PD it is characterized by transient (in cases with favorable outcome) unresponsiveness to rescue drugs. Life-supporting measures are mandatory in patients affected by this emergency. Severe dyskinesia, or life-threatening dyskinesia, is due to increased dopaminergic stimulation (either by the patient or by the prescriber): when it appears the level of dopaminomimetic stimulation should be reduced. Polyneuropathy during duodenal L-Dopa gel infusion is a recently described complication, attributed to the onset of Guillain-Barr syndromes. However, hemapheresis was not effective in some reported cases, and recent evidence suggests that Vitamin B12 deficiency or direct high-dose chronic L-Dopa toxicity might play a role in its origin.
A large body of evidence from postmortem brain tissue and genetic analysis in humans, as well as biochemical and pathological studies in animal models of neurodegeneration suggest that mitochondrial dysfunction is a key pathological mechanism in Parkinson's Disease (PD). Mitochondrial dysfunction leads to oxidative stress, damage to mitochondrial DNA, mitochondrial DNA deletions, altered mitochondrial morphology, alterations in mitochondrial fission and fusion and ultimately neuronal demise. Therapeutic approaches targeting mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative damage, therefore, hold great promise in PD. A number of agents, which target energy metabolism, are presently in therapeutic trials in PD. Both creatine and Coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10) are being tested in phase III clinical trials. In addition, preclinical studies in animal models have shown efficacy of mitochondrial-targeted antioxidants and the SS peptides. A promising approach for increasing antioxidant defenses is to transcriptionally increase the activity of the Nrf2/ARE pathway, which activates transcription of anti-inflammatory and antioxidant genes. A number of agents including sulforaphane, curcumin and triterpenoids have been shown to activate this pathway and to produce neuroprotective effects. Lastly, newly identified therapeutic targets include peroxisomal proliferator activated receptor gamma-coactivator (PGC-1alpha) and sirtuins. These pathways provide promise for future therapeutic developments in the treatment of PD.
Neuronal loss in Parkinson's disease (PD) is more widespread than originally thought. Among the extrastriatal sites in which significant loss of neurons has been reported is the centremedian-parafascicular (CM-PF) complex of the thalamus, which provides one of the three major afferent sources to the striatum. The functional significance of CM-PF loss in PD is unclear. Interestingly, several recent small trials have suggested that deep brain stimulation of the CM-PF improves motor function in PD. We discuss the possible transsynaptic determination of CM-PF loss secondary to nigrostriatal dopamine degeneration, and suggest that expression of the glycoprotein cerebellin1 (Cbln1) in CM-PF neurons may play an important role in striatal synaptic remodeling in parkinsonism.
Alpha-synuclein (alpha-syn) aggregation is central to neuropathological changes in Parkinson's disease. The aggregates spread within the central nervous system according to a very predictable pattern. A prion-like transmission of alpha-syn aggregates has been recently proposed to explain this propagation pattern. First, we review the growing evidence for such a mechanism. This process is likely to occur in three consecutive steps: (i) exit of alpha-syn template from the donor cell, (ii) entry to the recipient cell and (iii) initiation of the nucleation. In a second part, we discuss the possible underlying mechanisms for each of these steps, based on our current knowledge about how cells handle alpha-syn but also other proteins involved in neurodegenerative diseases with a prion-like propagation. Finally, we discuss which molecular species of alpha-syn (monomer, oligomer, fibril) could be the seeding-competent species and whether this seeding process could be a common mechanism in neurodegenerative diseases.
Huntington disease (HD) is characterized by motor, cognitive and behavioral abnormalities that typically emerge in adulthood in persons who have inherited the mutant gene. HD has a single genetic cause, a well-defined neuropathology, and informative pre-manifest predictive genetic testing. Thus, it has been possible to develop imaging biomarkers of HD progression, not just in the period of manifest illness, but also in the prodromal or &quot;premanifest&quot; period. Striatal atrophy is the most studied, and shows steady progression beginning in the prodromal period beginning up to 15 years before predicted onset, and continuing through the period of manifest illness. Therapeutic targets for HD include the huntingtin protein itself, either by reducing its levels with antisense oligonucleotides or siRNA, or potentially by intervening via posttranslational modifications such as phosphorylation, acetylation, SUMOylation, or proteolytic cleavage. Other strategies involve bolstering the cell's ability to deal with abnormal proteins, either via chaperones or protein degradation machinery. It may be possible to counteract the abnormal transcription caused by mutant huntingtin, with histone deacetylase inhibitors, or to enhance relevant gene products such as Brain Derived Neurotrophic Factor (BDNF). Another tactic is to enhance cellular metabolic defenses, such as with creatine or Coenzyme Q10. Strategies are being devised to use biomarkers, and administer therapeutic agents which can be given safely for long periods of time during the proodromal period, with a goal not just to slow progression, but to delay, or conceivably even prevent, the onset of clinical HD.
Non-motor manifestations of Parkinson disease (PD) are common and some may actually antedate motor dysfunction. Extrapyramidal signs in PD are tightly linked to striatonigral dopaminergic denervation associated with neuronal loss and Lewy bodies in the residual neurons of the substantia nigra. Lewy bodies composed of abnormal alpha-synuclein are the histologic hallmark of PD, and their presence beyond midbrain dopaminergic neurons is considered to be the pathologic substrate of many, if not all, of the non-motor manifestations of PD. We review the pathologic correlates of autonomic dysfunction (cardiac and gastrointestinal), hyposmia, depression, rapid eye movement behavior disorder and dementia in PD For each non-motor clinical feature there is strong evidence to suggest a role for alpha-synuclein pathology, lending further support for the notion that PD is a multisystem alpha-synucleinopathy.
We performed 123I-FP-CIT/SPECT and ECD/SPECT in 30 patients with Parkinson's disease with dementia (PDD) and 30 patients with dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) to evaluate whether presynaptic nigro-striatal function and/or cerebral perfusional pattern is different in these diseases. The striatal uptake of DAT tracer was statistically significantly lower in PDD and DLB with respect to control data (p &lt; 0.0005), however no significant difference was found between PDD and DLB. Patients with PDD and DLB showed a significant reduction of rCBF (p &lt; 0.001) in parieto-occipital and frontal areas, with respect to controls, but the comparison between the two groups did not result in any significant difference by SPM analysis. Finally no correlation was found between any regional perfusional changes and nigro-striatal dysfunction. We conclude that neither studies with 123I-FP-CIT nor ECD/SPECT were able to discriminate between DLB and PDD in vivo.
To date, there are no effective pharmacotherapies for treating psychostimulant abuse. Previous preclinical and clinical studies have shown that continuous treatment with the monoamine releaser amphetamine reduces cocaine self-administration, but amphetamine selectively targets the dopamine system and is reinforcing. In the present study, we examined the consequences of administration of amphetamine and three structurally related analogs that vary in their potencies for releasing dopamine and serotonin on behavioral-stimulant effects and nucleus accumbens dopamine levels in squirrel monkeys. Amphetamine and PAL-353, which have relatively high selectivity for releasing dopamine vs. serotonin, increased accumbens dopamine levels and induced stimulant effects on behavior maintained by a fixed-interval schedule of reinforcement. PAL-313, which has a relatively low selectivity for releasing dopamine vs. serotonin, increased dopamine levels, but did not induce behavioral-stimulant effects. PAL-287, which is relatively nonselective in releasing dopamine and serotonin, did not increase dopamine levels or induce behavioral-stimulant effects. These results demonstrate that increasing serotonergic activity attenuates dopamine release and dopamine-mediated behavioral effects of monoamine releasers. In addition, these results support further investigation of PAL-313 and similar compounds as a potential medication for treating psychostimulant abuse.
Most studies on arsenic as a drinking water contaminant have focused on its carcinogenic potential but a few suggest that arsenic can adversely affect cognitive development. One parameter of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, the corticosterone receptor (CR) has been shown to be altered by arsenic. These receptors are found throughout the central nervous system, particularly in the hippocampus, an area of the brain of central importance for learning and memory. We examined the impact of perinatal exposure to 50 parts per billion (ppb) sodium arsenate on CRs and learning and memory behavior in the C57BL/6J mouse. Measurements of CRs revealed that arsenic-exposed offspring have significantly lower levels of these receptors in the nucleus than controls. Exposed offspring showed longer latency to approach a novel object than controls in an object recognition task. In the 8-way radial arm maze, arsenic offspring had a significant increase in the number of entry errors compared to controls. Results suggest that moderate exposures to perinatal arsenic can significantly reduce CR levels in the hippocampus and can have adverse effects on learning and memory behavior.
The normal phase diffusion problem in magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is treated by means of the Langevin equation for the phase variable using only the properties of the characteristic function of Gaussian random variables. The calculation may be simply extended to anomalous diffusion using a fractional generalization of the Langevin equation proposed by Lutz [E. Lutz, Phys. Rev. E 64, 051106 (2001)] pertaining to the fractional Brownian motion of a free particle coupled to a fractal heat bath. The results compare favorably with diffusion-weighted experiments acquired in human neuronal tissue using a 3 T MRI scanner.

Spike timing dependent plasticity (STDP) has been observed experimentally in vitro and is a widely studied neural algorithm for synaptic modification. While the functional role of STDP has been investigated extensively, the effect of rhythms on the precise timing of STDP has not been characterized as well. We use a simplified biophysical model of a cortical network that generates pyramidal interneuronal gamma rhythms (PING). Plasticity via STDP is investigated at the excitatory pyramidal cell synapse from a gamma frequency (30-90 Hz) input independent of the network gamma rhythm. The input may represent a corticocortical or an information-specific thalamocortical connection. This synapse is mediated by N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor mediated (NMDAR) currents. For distinct network and input frequencies, the model shows robust frequency regimes of potentiation and depression, providing a mechanism by which responses to certain inputs can potentiate while responses to other inputs depress. For potentiating regimes, the model suggests an optimal amount and duration of plasticity that can occur, which depends on the time course for the decay of the postsynaptic NMDAR current. Prolonging the duration of the input beyond this optimal time results in depression. Inserting pauses in the input can increase the total potentiation. The optimal pause length corresponds to the decay time of the NMDAR current. Thus, STDP in this model provides a mechanism for potentiation and depression depending on input frequency and suggests that the slow NMDAR current decay helps to regulate the optimal amplitude and duration of the plasticity. The optimal pause length is comparable to the time scale of the negative phase of a modulatory theta rhythm, which may pause gamma rhythm spiking. Our pause results may suggest a novel role for this theta rhythm in plasticity. Finally, we discuss our results in the context of auditory thalamocortical plasticity.
Transitive inference, class inclusion and a variety of other inferential abilities have strikingly similar developmental profiles-all are acquired around the age of five. Yet, little is known about the reasons for this correspondence. Category theory was invented as a formal means of establishing commonalities between various mathematical structures. We use category theory to show that transitive inference and class inclusion involve dual mathematical structures, called product and coproduct. Other inferential tasks with similar developmental profiles, including matrix completion, cardinality, dimensional changed card sorting, balance-scale (weight-distance integration), and Theory of Mind also involve these structures. By contrast, (co)products are not involved in the behaviours exhibited by younger children on these tasks, or simplified versions that are within their ability. These results point to a fundamental cognitive principle under development during childhood that is the capacity to compute (co)products in the categorical sense.
Changes of synaptic connections between neurons are thought to be the physiological basis of learning. These changes can be gated by neuromodulators that encode the presence of reward. We study a family of reward-modulated synaptic learning rules for spiking neurons on a learning task in continuous space inspired by the Morris Water maze. The synaptic update rule modifies the release probability of synaptic transmission and depends on the timing of presynaptic spike arrival, postsynaptic action potentials, as well as the membrane potential of the postsynaptic neuron. The family of learning rules includes an optimal rule derived from policy gradient methods as well as reward modulated Hebbian learning. The synaptic update rule is implemented in a population of spiking neurons using a network architecture that combines feedforward input with lateral connections. Actions are represented by a population of hypothetical action cells with strong mexican-hat connectivity and are read out at theta frequency. We show that in this architecture, a standard policy gradient rule fails to solve the Morris watermaze task, whereas a variant with a Hebbian bias can learn the task within 20 trials, consistent with experiments. This result does not depend on implementation details such as the size of the neuronal populations. Our theoretical approach shows how learning new behaviors can be linked to reward-modulated plasticity at the level of single synapses and makes predictions about the voltage and spike-timing dependence of synaptic plasticity and the influence of neuromodulators such as dopamine. It is an important step towards connecting formal theories of reinforcement learning with neuronal and synaptic properties.
While most sensory neurons will adapt to prolonged stimulation by down-regulating their responsiveness to the signal, it is not clear which events initiate long-lasting sensory adaptation. Likewise, we are just beginning to understand how the physiology of the adapted cell is altered. Caenorhabditis elegans is inherently attracted to specific odors that are sensed by the paired AWC olfactory sensory neurons. The attraction diminishes if the animal experiences these odors for a prolonged period of time in the absence of food. The AWC neuron responds acutely to odor-exposure by closing calcium channels. While odortaxis requires a Galpha subunit protein, cGMP-gated channels, and guanylyl cyclases, adaptation to prolonged odor exposure requires nuclear entry of the cGMP-dependent protein kinase, EGL-4. We asked which candidate members of the olfactory signal transduction pathway promote nuclear entry of EGL-4 and which molecules might induce long-term adaptation downstream of EGL-4 nuclear entry. We found that initiation of long-term adaptation, as assessed by nuclear entry of EGL-4, is dependent on G-protein mediated signaling but is independent of fluxes in calcium levels. We show that long-term adaptation requires polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) that may act on the transient receptor potential (TRP) channel type V OSM-9 downstream of EGL-4 nuclear entry. We also present evidence that high diacylglycerol (DAG) levels block long-term adaptation without affecting EGL-4 nuclear entry. Our analysis provides a model for the process of long-term adaptation that occurs within the AWC neuron of C. elegans: G-protein signaling initiates long-lasting olfactory adaptation by promoting the nuclear entry of EGL-4, and once EGL-4 has entered the nucleus, processes such as PUFA activation of the TRP channel OSM-9 may dampen the output of the AWC neuron.
The first seizure is more common than epilepsy. A detailed history is vital in the assessment in order to reveal unreported minor seizures such as myoclonic jerks, simple partial seizures and absences in the past. The first seizure could be provoked or unprovoked. Provoked seizures have a lower risk or recurrence. Electroencephalogram (EEG) studies and neuroimaging are essential components in the diagnostic work up. Abnormal neurological status and abnormal EEG are the most significant predictors of seizure recurrence. Antiepileptic drug (AED) treatment after the first seizure significantly reduces seizure recurrence rate in the first 2 years. However it does not appear to change the long term outlook. There are some patients who would benefit from AED treatment after the first seizure. This paper discusses the current evidence on this multifaceted clinical problem which would help formulate a rational management plan.


Currently, treatment with the relatively low-affinity NMDA receptor antagonist memantine provides limited benefit in Alzheimer's disease (AD). One probable dose-limiting factor in the use of memantine is the inhibition of NMDA receptor-dependent synaptic plasticity mechanisms believed to underlie certain forms of memory. Moreover, amyloid-beta protein (Abeta) oligomers that are implicated in causing the cognitive deficits of AD potently inhibit this form of plasticity. Here we examined if subtype-preferring NMDA receptor antagonists could preferentially protect against the inhibition of NMDA receptor-dependent plasticity of excitatory synaptic transmission by Abeta in the hippocampus in vivo. Using doses that did not affect control plasticity, antagonists selective for NMDA receptors containing GluN2B but not other GluN2 subunits prevented Abeta(1-42) -mediated inhibition of plasticity. Evidence that the proinflammatory cytokine TNFalpha mediates this deleterious action of Ass was provided by the ability of TNFalpha antagonists to prevent Abeta(1-42) inhibition of plasticity and the abrogation of a similar disruptive effect of TNFalpha using a GluN2B-selective antagonist. Moreover, at nearby synapses that were resistant to the inhibitory effect of TNFalpha, Abeta(1-42) did not significantly affect plasticity. These findings suggest that preferentially targeting GluN2B subunit-containing NMDARs may provide an effective means of preventing cognitive deficits in early Alzheimer's disease.
The development of central nervous system synapses requires precise coordination between presynaptic and postsynaptic components. The EphB family controls postsynaptic development by interacting with glutamate receptors and regulating dendritic filopodia motility, but how EphBs induce the formation of presynaptic specializations is less well understood. Here, we show that knockdown of presynaptic ephrin-B1, ephrin-B2, or syntenin-1, but not ephrin-B3, prevents EphB-dependent presynaptic development. Ephrin-B1, ephrin-B2, and syntenin-1 are clustered together with presynaptic markers, suggesting that these molecules function jointly in presynaptic development. Knockdown of ephrin-B1 or ephrin-B2 reduces the number of synaptic specializations and the colocalization of syntenin-1 with synaptic markers. Simultaneous knockdown of ephrin-B1 and ephrin-B2 suggests that they function independently in the formation of synaptic contacts, but act together to recruit syntenin-1 to presynaptic terminals. Taken together, these results demonstrate that ephrin-B1 and ephrin-B2 function with EphB to mediate presynaptic development via syntenin-1.
Formation of lasting memories is believed to rely on structural alterations at the synaptic level. We had found that increased neuronal activity down-regulates Nogo receptor-1 (NgR1) in brain regions linked to memory formation and storage, and postulated this to be required for formation of lasting memories. We now show that mice with inducible overexpression of NgR1 in forebrain neurons have normal long-term potentiation and normal 24-h memory, but severely impaired month-long memory in both passive avoidance and swim maze tests. Blocking transgene expression normalizes these memory impairments. Nogo, Lingo-1, Troy, endogenous NgR1, and BDNF mRNA expression levels were not altered by transgene expression, suggesting that the impaired ability to form lasting memories is directly coupled to inability to down-regulate NgR1. Regulation of NgR1 may therefore serve as a key regulator of memory consolidation. Understanding the molecular underpinnings of synaptic rearrangements that carry lasting memories may facilitate development of treatments for memory dysfunction.
The concept of 'cognitive reserve', and a broader theory of 'brain reserve', were originally proposed to help explain epidemiological data indicating that individuals who engaged in higher levels of mental and physical activity via education, occupation and recreation, were at lower risk of developing Alzheimer's disease and other forms of dementia. Subsequently, behavioral, cellular and molecular studies in animals (predominantly mice and rats) have revealed dramatic effects of environmental enrichment, which involves enhanced levels of sensory, cognitive and motor stimulation via housing in novel, complex environments. Furthermore, increasing levels of voluntary physical exercise, via ad libitum access to running wheels, can have significant effects on brain and behavior, thus informing the relative effects of mental and physical activity. More recently, animal models of brain disorders have been compared under environmentally stimulating and standard housing conditions, and this has provided new insights into environmental modulators and gene-environment interactions involved in pathogenesis. Here, we review animal studies that have investigated the effects of modifying mental and physical activity via experimental manipulations, and discuss their relevance to brain and cognitive reserve (BCR). Recent evidence suggests that the concept of BCR is not only relevant to brain aging, neurodegenerative diseases and dementia, but also to other neurological and psychiatric disorders. Understanding the cellular and molecular mechanisms mediating BCR may not only facilitate future strategies aimed at optimising healthy brain aging, but could also identify molecular targets for novel pharmacological approaches aimed at boosting BCR in 'at risk' and symptomatic individuals with various brain disorders.
Multiple sclerosis is a very disabling inflammatory demyelinating disease of the brain of unknown etiology. Current therapies can reduce new lesion development and partially prevent clinical disease activity, but none can halt the progression, or cure the disease. We will review current therapeutic strategies, which are mostly discussed in literature in terms of their effective inhibition of T cells. However, we argue that many of these treatments also influence the myeloid compartment. Interestingly, recent evidence indicates that myelin phagocytosis by infiltrated macrophages and activated microglia is not just a hallmark of multiple sclerosis, but also a key determinant of lesion development and disease progression. We reason that severe side effects and/or insufficient effectiveness of current treatments necessitates the search for novel therapeutic targets, and postulate that these should aim at manipulation of the activation and phagocytic capacity of macrophages and microglia. We will discuss three candidate targets with high potential, namely the complement receptor 3, CD47-SIRPalpha interaction as well as CD200-CD200R interaction. Blocking the actions of complement receptor 3 could inhibit myelin phagocytosis, as well as migration of myeloid cells into the brain. CD47 and CD200 are known to inhibit macrophage/microglia activation through binding to their receptors SIRPalpha and CD200R, expressed on phagocytes. Triggering these receptors may thus dampen the inflammatory response. Our recent findings indicate that the CD200-CD200R interaction is the most specific and hence probably best-suited target to suppress excessive macrophage and microglia activation, and restore immune suppression in the brain of patients with multiple sclerosis.
In this review, we examine the history of the neurobiology of suicide, as well as the genetics, molecular and neurochemical findings in suicide research. Our analysis begins with a summary of family, twin, and adoption studies, which provide support for the investigation of genetic variation in suicide risk. This leads to an overview of neurochemical findings restricted to neurotransmitters and their receptors, including recent findings in whole genome gene expression studies. Next, we look at recent studies investigating lipid metabolism, cell signalling with a particular emphasis on growth factors, stress systems with a focus on the role of polyamines, and finally, glial cell pathology in suicide. We conclude with a description of new ideas to study the neurobiology of suicide, including subject-specific analysis, protein modification assessment, neuroarchitecture studies, and study design strategies to investigate the complex suicide phenotype.


Frontotemporal dementia (FTD) is a subtype of frontotemporal lobar degeneration, which also includes semantic dementia (SD) and progressive non-fluent aphasia. Frontotemporal dementia is characterized by changes in personality and behavioral abnormalities, generally associated with predominant frontal lobe atrophy. Conversely, SD is typically characterized by Gogi (word meaning) aphasia based on semantic memory impairment and is associated with predominant temporal lobe atrophy. However, in the present cases, we diagnosed FTD on the basis of clinical symptoms, such as disinhibition, indifference, and stereotypy, without semantic memory impairment, even though neuroimaging showed predominant temporal lobe atrophy. We suggest that clinical symptoms are the most important cues for an accurate clinical diagnosis and there is no exclusive relationship between the syndrome and atrophy of the temporal lobes.
Current theories predict opposing effects of emotionally arousing information on false memory. If emotion enhances true recollection, then false recollection might be lower for emotional than for neutral pictures. However, if emotion enhances conceptual relatedness, then false recollection might increase for nonstudied but emotionally related pictures. We contrasted these 2 factors in young and older adults, using the International Affective Pictures Systems set (Lang, Bradley, &amp; Cuthbert, 2005). Although both age groups used recollection in our task, false recollection was greatest for emotional pictures, supporting a conceptual relatedness account. Finally, even after accuracy differences were controlled, age was related to high-confidence false recollection of emotional pictures.

Individuals show marked variation in their responses to threat. Such individual differences in behavioral inhibition play a profound role in mental and physical well-being. Behavioral inhibition is thought to reflect variation in the sensitivity of a distributed neural system responsible for generating anxiety and organizing defensive responses to threat and punishment. Although progress has been made in identifying the key constituents of this behavioral inhibition system in humans, the involvement of dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) remains unclear. Here, we acquired self-reported Behavioral Inhibition System Sensitivity scores and high-resolution electroencephalography from a large sample (n= 51). Using the enhanced spatial resolution afforded by source modeling techniques, we show that individuals with greater tonic (resting) activity in right-posterior DLPFC rate themselves as more behaviorally inhibited. This observation provides novel support for recent conceptualizations of behavioral inhibition and clues to the mechanisms that might underlie variation in threat-induced negative affect.
Many of the phenomena underlying shape recognition can be derived from the greater sensitivity to nonaccidental properties of an image (e.g., whether a contour is straight or curved), which are invariant to orientation in depth, than to the metric properties of an image (e.g., a contour's degree of curvature), which can vary with orientation. What enables this sensitivity? One explanation is that it derives from people's immersion in a manufactured world in which simple, regular shapes distinguished by nonaccidental properties abound (e.g., a can, a brick), and toddlers are encouraged to play with toy shape sorters. This report provides evidence against this explanation. The Himba, a seminomadic people living in a remote region of northwestern Namibia where there is little exposure to regular, simple artifacts, were virtually identical to Western observers in their greater sensitivity to nonaccidental properties than to metric properties of simple shapes.
In the mammalian central nervous system activation of the ionotropic GABA(A) receptor by the neurotransmitter GABA plays a crucial role in controlling neuronal excitability. This essential form of neuronal regulation may be subject to &quot;fine tuning&quot; by particular metabolites of progesterone and deoxycorticosterone, which bind directly to the GABA(A) receptor to enhance the actions of GABA. Originally such steroids were considered to act as endocrine messengers, being synthesised in peripheral glands such as the adrenals and ovaries and crossing the blood brain barrier to influence neuronal signalling. However, it is now evident that certain neurons and glia may produce such &quot;neurosteroids&quot; and that these locally synthesised modulators may act in a paracrine, or indeed an autocrine manner to influence neuronal activity. Neurosteroid synthesis may change dynamically in a variety of physiological situations (e.g. stress, pregnancy) and perturbations in their levels are implicated in a variety of neurological and psychiatric disorders. Here we will consider (1) evidence supporting the concept that neurosteroids act as local regulators of neuronal inhibition, (2) that extrasynaptic GABA(A) receptors appear to be a particularly important neurosteroid target and (3) recent advances in defining the neurosteroid binding site(s) on the GABA(A) receptor.
Many studies have provided evidence for important sex-dependent differences in the origins, outcomes and treatment of drug abuse and dependence. Preclinical studies typically have employed animal models of addiction, such as oral or intravenous self-administration, to untangle the environmental, neurobiological and genetic factors that contribute to the shift from occasional, recreational use to compulsive, uncontrolled intake of drugs. Craving and relapse of drug seeking in abstinent individuals have also been found to differ between men and women. Identification of the neurobiological basis of craving and drug dependence continues to pose a challenge to addiction research. Significant sex differences are emerging in substance-abuse-related behavior, which has increased the demand for research on how drug consumption may have different causes, progression and consequences in men and women. In keeping with epidemiological data in humans, differences between the two sexes in drug seeking and intake have been well-documented in animal studies, with most recent findings related to abuse of cannabinoids. Clinical and preclinical findings indicate that sex and gonadal hormones may account for individual differences in susceptibility to the reinforcing effects of addictive substances, and that differences in vulnerability to drug abuse may be mediated by the same biological mechanisms. This review focuses on the differences between males and females in relation to drug self-administration and how such behavior may be affected by hormonal status.
Neuroactive steroids such as 3alpha-hydroxy-5alpha-pregnan-20-one (3alpha,5alpha-THP) are reduced metabolites of progesterone and are thought to play an important physiological role in local modulation of neuronal excitability by &quot;fine-tuning&quot; the action of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) at GABA(A) receptors. Fluctuations in the concentrations of neuroactive steroids in the brain are also thought to contribute to GABA(A) receptor plasticity. We here review results from our laboratory related to the regulation of GABA(A) receptor function and plasticity by changes in the levels of neuroactive steroids during pregnancy and after delivery in rats. Pregnancy is characterized by marked and progressive increases in the plasma and brain concentrations of neuroactive steroids, which are implicated in the changes in mood, anxiety, and other psychiatric states associated with this condition. We have shown that the increases in the brain levels of neuroactive steroids during pregnancy are causally related to changes in the expression of specific GABA(A) receptor subunits and the function of extrasynaptic GABA(A) receptors in the hippocampus.
Numerous studies have shown that disturbances in hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis function and consequent hypercortisolaemia occur in a significant proportion of patients with mood disorders. This dysfunction has been proposed to be an exacerbating factor of depressive symptoms and may predict symptomatic relapse. Glucocorticoids are also known to have a specific role in learning and memory processes. In this review we present a brief overview of the relationship between HPA axis dysfunction and neuropsychological impairment in mood disorders and the specific links between glucocorticoids and cognition in health and illness states. Finally we examine the neuropsychological effects of drugs that specifically target glucocorticoid receptor function.
Steroid hormones act in the central and peripheral nervous systems to regulate a variety of functions, including development, cell proliferation, cognition and behavior. Many of these effects of steroid hormones are mediated by their respective receptors, which are members of the nuclear receptor superfamily of transcriptional activators. A variety of cell culture studies reveal that nuclear receptor coactivators are recruited to the steroid receptor complex and are critical in modulating steroid-dependent transcription. Thus, in addition to the availability of the hormone and its receptor, the expression of nuclear receptor coactivators is essential for modulating steroid receptor-mediated transcription. This review will discuss the significance of nuclear receptor coactivators in modulating steroid-dependent gene expression in the central and peripheral nervous systems and the regulation of behavior.
Gonadal hormones are known to be affected by morphine and other opioids. In this paper, we summarize data collected in recent years which clearly indicate that the opioid-induced effects on steroid hormones depend on the opioid used and in some cases on the sex of the subject. Indeed morphine is able to reduce hormones like testosterone and cortisol in both male and female subjects in just a few hours, probably acting directly on peripheral glands. These depressant effects of morphine on hormones are also present in the treatment of surgical pain and are quickly reversible once opioid administration is suspended. Similar actions were also found to occur in experimental animals and in vitro in glial cells, further confirming the morphine-induced reduction of testosterone cell content. Testosterone and its metabolites are well known substances involved in the development and maintenance of the brain and all body structures. Thus when treating pain with opioids, their effects on hypothalamo-pituitary-gonadal and hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal-related hormones must be considered and, where possible, hormone replacement therapy should be started.
Steroid receptors such as estrogen and androgen receptors are nuclear receptors involved in the transcriptional regulation of a large number of target genes. Steroid-dependent protein expression in the brain controls a large array of biological processes including spatial cognition, copulatory behavior and neuroprotection. The discovery of a competition, or squelching, between two different nuclear receptors introduced the notion that common cofactors may be involved in the modulation of transcriptional activity of nuclear receptors. These cofactors or coregulatory proteins are functionally divided into coactivators and corepressors and are involved in chromatin remodeling and stabilization of the general transcription machinery. Although a large amount of information has been collected about the in vitro function of these coregulatory proteins, relatively little is known regarding their physiological role in vivo, particularly in the brain. Our laboratory and others have demonstrated the importance of SRC-1 in the differentiation and activation of steroid-dependent sexual behaviors and the related neural genes. For example, we report that the inhibition of SRC-1 expression blocks the activating effects of exogenous testosterone on male sexual behaviors and increases the volume of the median preoptic area. Other coactivators are likely to be involved in the modulation in vivo of steroid receptor activity and it seems that the presence of a precise subset of coactivators could help define the phenotype of the cell by modulating a specific downstream pathway after steroid receptor activation. The very large number of coactivators and their association into preformed complexes potentially allows the determination of hundreds of different phenotypes. The study of the expression of the coactivator and their function in vivo is required to fully understand steroid action and specificity in the brain.




When another person's actions are observed it appears that these actions are simulated, such that similar motor processes are triggered in the observer. Much evidence suggests that such simulation concerns the achievement of behavioural goals, such as grasping a particular object, and is less concerned with the specific nature of the action, such as the path the hand takes to reach the goal object. We demonstrate that when observing another person reach around an obstacle, an observer's subsequent reach has an increased curved trajectory, reflecting motor priming of reach path. This priming of reach trajectory via action observation can take place under a variety of circumstances: with or without a shared goal, and when the action is seen from a variety of perspectives. However, of most importance, the reach path priming effect is only evoked if the obstacle avoided by another person is within the action (peripersonal) space of the observer.
The &quot;hybrid&quot; model of object recognition (Hummel, 2001) proposes that unattended objects are processed holistically, while attended objects are processed both holistically and analytically. Supporting evidence for this claim was reported by Thoma, Hummel, and Davidoff (2004) who showed that, unlike whole object primes, unattended split object parts (presumed to require analytic processing) do not elicit repetition priming. Here we tested the generality of this finding by contrasting priming for whole and part prime stimuli as a function of prime informativeness and by modifying the design so that both unattended whole and part prime displays contained a single perceptual object. Unlike Thoma et al. (2004) the results showed negative (rather than an absence of) priming for unattended half object primes. These findings place new constraints on theoretical models of the role of attention in object recognition.
An overview of 13C nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy methods and their applications in the study of the metabolism of brain cells in vitro and in the in vivo brain is presented as well as their implications for modern molecular imaging techniques. Various topics will be discussed, such as general properties of the 13C NMR spectrum, 13C NMR spectroscopy acquisition protocols, determination of fractional 13C enrichment, 13C(2H) NMR methodologies, and the use of 13C hyperpolarized substrates for NMR spectroscopy and imaging. Some illustrative applications are described, both in vitro and in vivo.
The aim of the present study was to evaluate the seasonal variation in serum melatonin levels and their relationship to the changes in the serum progesterone level, ovarian steroidogenesis, and embryonic development during two successive pregnancies of Cynopterus sphinx. Circulating melatonin concentrations showed two peaks; one coincided with the period of low progesterone synthesis and delayed embryonic development, whereas the second peak coincided with regressing corpus luteum. This finding suggests that increased serum melatonin level during November-December may be responsible for delayed embryonic development by suppressing progesterone synthesis. The study showed increased melatonin receptors (MTNR1A and MTNR1B) in the corpus luteum and in the utero-embryonic unit during the period of delayed embryonic development. The in vitro study showed that a high dose of melatonin suppressed progesterone synthesis, whereas a lower dose of melatonin increased progesterone synthesis by the ovary. The effects of melatonin on ovarian steroidogenesis are mediated through changes in the expression of peripheral-type benzodiazepine receptor, P450 side chain cleavage enzyme, and LH receptor proteins. This study further showed a suppressive impact of melatonin on the progesterone receptor (PGR) in the utero-embryonic unit; this effect might contribute to delayed embryonic development in C. sphinx. The results of the present study thus suggest that a high circulating melatonin level has a dual contribution in retarding embryonic development in C. sphinx by impairing progesterone synthesis as well as by inhibiting progesterone action by reducing expression of PGR in the utero-embryonic unit.
During the course of 9 months, the human placenta develops into a highly vascular organ. Vasculogenesis starts during the third week post-conception. Hemangioblastic cell cords differentiate in situ from mesenchymal cells in the villous cores, most probably under the influence of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGFA) secreted by the overlying trophoblast. The cords elongate through proliferation and cell recruitment, and connect with the vasculature of the developing fetus. A feto-placental circulation starts around 8 weeks of gestation. Elongation of the capillaries outstrips that of the containing villi, leading to looping of the vessels. The obtrusion of both capillary loops and new sprouts results in the formation of terminal villi. Branching and non-branching angiogenesis therefore play key roles in villous morphogenesis throughout pregnancy. Maternal circulating levels of VEGFA and placental growth factor vary across normal pregnancy, and in complicated pregnancies. Determining the impact of these changes on placental angiogenesis is difficult, as the relationship between levels of factors in the maternal circulation and their effects on fetal vessels within the placenta remains unclear. Furthermore, the trophoblast secretes large quantities of soluble receptors capable of binding both growth factors, influencing their bioavailability. Villous endothelial cells are prone to oxidative stress, which activates the apoptotic cascade. Oxidative stress associated with onset of the maternal circulation, and with incomplete conversion of the spiral arteries in pathological pregnancies, plays an important role in sculpting the villous tree. Suppression of placental angiogenesis results in impoverished development of the placenta, leading ultimately to fetal growth restriction.
In this study, we examined attention processes in complex, sport-specific decision-making tasks without interdependencies from anticipation. Psychophysiological and performance data recorded from advanced and intermediate level basketball referees were compared. Event-related potentials obtained while judging game situations in foul recognition and a control task provided insight into focus of attention, selective attention, and processing strategy (top-down vs. bottom-up). Results showed task-specific effects for advanced referees in components influenced by attentional focus and selective attention. Experts also seemed to profit from superior top-down strategy and were able to evaluate the stimuli more rapidly. These findings are discussed in connection with current models in neurosciences and theories of referee research.
The circadian clock is an evolutionarily, highly conserved feature of most organisms. This internal timing mechanism coordinates biochemical, physiological and behavioral processes to maintain synchrony with the environmental cycles of light, temperature and nutrients. Several studies have shown that light is the most potent cue used by most organisms (humans included) to synchronize daily activities. In mammals, light perception occurs only in the retina; three different types of photoreceptors are present within this tissue: cones, rods and the newly discovered intrinsically photosensitive retinal ganglion cells (ipRGCs). Researchers believe that the classical photoreceptors (e.g., the rods and the cones) are responsible for the image-forming vision, whereas the ipRGCs play a key role in the non-image forming vision. This non-image-forming photoreceptive system communicates not only with the master circadian pacemaker located in the suprachiasmatic nuclei of the hypothalamus, but also with many other brain areas that are known to be involved in the regulation of several functions; thus, this non-image forming system may also affect several aspects of mammalian health independently from the circadian system.

This paper attempts to argue for a consistent trend in a research spanning more than fifty years, starting in the exciting neuroscience environment in the Anatomical Institute at the University of Oslo, and presently to be found as an active behavioral medicine unit in Bergen. The most comprehensive theoretical result is a systematic and formalized theory of stress, referred to as the Cognitive Activation Theory of Stress, CATS for short (Ursin &amp; Eriksen, 2004). There are many roots, many related issues, and many scientists involved. There is no way to produce a complete story. However, one aspect is beyond discussion, the story started in the Neurophysiology laboratory in Oslo.
Studies addressing cerebral functional localization face methodological and theoretical problems. Lesion experiments expect that when a functionally specialized structure is missing, its function can be deduced from the resulting impairments. Mostly, however, initial impairments are partially or fully eliminated through functional recovery. Apparently, such a recovery contradicts the notion of functional localization. In order to understand the mechanisms of recovery, improved methodology and a new theoretical framework are required. Insights into the mechanisms of recovery can be achieved by using &quot;challenge&quot; techniques, where functionally recovered individuals are exposed to organic and behavioral challenges, e.g. pharmacological manipulations or additional lesions, as well as modified test situations. Using such methods, a number of principles of functional recovery have emerged. We evaluate some of the available theories of post-traumatic recovery against these principles and find that none of them can account for the principles. Finally, we present a new conceptual framework - the Reorganization of Elementary Functions (REF) model. This model reconceptualizes the term &quot;function&quot;, suggests mechanisms of post-traumatic reorganizations, and resolves the contradiction between localization and functional recovery.
Snakes and faces are unique stimuli because they are deeply grounded in evolutionarily shaped behavior systems. Snakes are the prototypical stimulus in a predatory defense system promoting escape from predators, which prepares primates for efficient processing, attentional priority, and rapid fear acquisition to snakes and other stimuli related to predation. The social submissiveness system plays a similar role on the social arena by promoting yielding to dominant individuals without jeopardizing the protection of the group. Supporting these theoretical propositions, empirical data from a research program spanning four decades demonstrate enhanced fear conditioning to snakes and threatening faces compared to neutral stimuli, as well as fast nonconscious processing of, and prioritized attention to, snakes and threatening faces. Human brain-imaging data show that these effects are mediated by an extensive fear-network centering on the amygdala.
Obesity is a serious health issue for many patients with schizophrenia. There is a lack of predictors for and understanding of the development of obesity in the early phase of the illness. Therefore we investigated a set of routine biochemistry variables in blood as predictors of the development of obesity and weight gain over 5 years in an observational cohort study of patients with first-episode schizophrenia (n=59). Twelve percent of the patients were obese at baseline and 37% were obese at the 5-year follow-up. The mean body mass index (BMI) change over 5 years was a 4.1 kg/m(2) increase (4.5 SD). Obesity was predicted by baseline hemoglobin levels (odds ratio per standard deviation [OR/SD] 3.3, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.4 to 7.5), red blood cell count (OR/SD 2.6, 95% CI 1.2 to 5.5), hematocrit (OR/SD 2.8, 95% CI 1.3 to 5.9), gamma-glutamyltransferase (OR/SD 2.8, 95% CI 1.2-6.3) and creatinine (OR/SD 3.1, 95% CI 1.2 to 8.0). After adjustment for baseline BMI, the associations were attenuated for gamma-glutamyltransferase and creatinine. Low baseline BMI was associated with a greater BMI increase. The major conclusion is that easily available routine biochemistry markers can be useful in predicting the development of obesity in first-episode schizophrenia. The mechanisms underlying the observed associations are unknown, but the predictors identified in this study could signify dehydration or insulin resistance. These observations open a new window to future research on the mechanisms underlying the development of obesity in schizophrenia.

&quot;Theory of mind&quot; (ToM) is the ability to judge the mental states of the self and others. It is currently considered as a part of the broader concept of social cognition, known to influence the social behaviour of patients affected by schizophrenia. Recently it has been hypothesized that the impairment of ToM is a trait that can be detected both in patients with schizophrenia and in non-psychotic relatives of patients, but it still not clear what the contribution of the familial patterns of cognitive impairment is. The aim of this study is to assess parental impairments of ToM performance considering the effects of the neurocognitive abilities known to be impaired in their first-degree relatives and to influence ToM in schizophrenic patients. Patients, their parents and control trios were assessed with the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (WCST), the Symbol Coding Task and the ToM Picture Sequencing Task. The ANCOVA analysis on 47 trios including a schizophrenic offspring and 47 healthy trios showed a statistically significant poorer performance of patients and their parents in comparison to control trios at Symbol Coding Task and ToM task. Moreover a regression analysis showed that the neuropsychological abilities tested were significant predictors of ToM performance only in patients. Results confirm a ToM impairment among parents of patients with schizophrenia that is not directly correlated to other aspects of neurocognitive functioning.

In 1998, a lead researcher at a Midwestern university submitted as his own a document that had 64 instances of strings of 10 or more words that were identical to a consultant's masters thesis and replicated a data chart, all of whose 16 entries were identical to three and four significant figures. He was fired because his actions were wrong. Curiously, he was completely unable to see that his actions were wrong. This phenomenon is discussed in light of recent advances in neuroscience and used to argue for a change in the standard way engineering ethics is taught. I argue that engineering ethics is better taught in the form of a design course in order to maximize &quot;somatic&quot; learning.
A &quot;sense of agency&quot; involves a contemporaneous experience that the &quot;self&quot; causes the actions performed by the &quot;self&quot; (i.e., &quot;I am the one who causes my actions&quot;). This may comprise the main component of self-consciousness. The present research focuses on the development of a questionnaire to investigate the subjective aspects of a sense of agency. We selected items from the extant relevant measures and from previous empirical studies, and conducted four longitudinal surveys with additional scales. Statistical computations confirmed the validity and reliability of the Sense of Agency Scale (SOAS), consisting of seventeen items involving three factors. Furthermore, the results indicated that these three factors might be organized hierarchically, with each factor showing a unique relationship with emotional or social traits. This novel finding, emerging from the Sense of Agency Scale, would have been difficult to obtain via traditional empirical studies.







Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by the selective loss of midbrain dopamine neurons. Neural transplantation with fetal dopamine neurons can be an effective therapy for patients with PD, but recovery of human fetal cells is difficult. Scarcity of tissue has limited clinical application to a small number of research subjects worldwide. Selective differentiation of embryonic stem cells (ESCs) to dopamine neurons could lead to an unlimited supply of cells for expanded clinical transplantation. To facilitate the differentiation and purification of dopamine neurons, the green fluorescent protein (GFP) gene was inserted into the dopamine transporter (DAT) locus in mouse ESCs using homologous recombination. From these DAT-GFP ESCs, dopamine neurons expressing GFP were successfully produced by in vitro differentiation. The DAT-GFP ESCs were used to generate DAT-GFP knock-in mice. We have found that GFP was colocalized with DAT, Pitx3, Engrailed-1, and tyrosine hydroxylase-positive cells in midbrain, hypothalamus, and olfactory bulb but not in noradrenergic cell regions or other ectopic sites. The GFP-positive dopamine neurons could be isolated from embryonic day-15 ventral midbrain by fluorescence activated cell sorting. These purified dopamine neurons survived reculture and expressed tyrosine hydroxylase and DAT when cocultured with mouse astrocytes or striatal cells. Animals homozygous for DAT-GFP were hyperactive because they had no functional DAT protein. These DAT-GFP knock-in ESCs and mice provide unique tools for purifying dopamine neurons to study their physiology, pharmacology, and genetic profiles.










In a 33-year-old male patient with multiple sclerosis, brain magnetic resonance imaging incidentally showed a narrow right intracranial internal carotid artery. Gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance angiography showed absence of the right common carotid artery. Right external and internal carotid arteries arose separately from the ipsilateral innominate artery and subclavian artery, respectively. Color-Doppler ultrasound confirmed this finding. Embriologically, the case could be interpreted as the disappearance of the third aortic arch with persistence of the carotid duct connecting the third and fourth aortic arches.
Phencyclidine exerts psychotomimetic effects in humans and is used as a pharmacological animal model for schizophrenia. We, and others, have demonstrated that phencyclidine induces cognitive deficits in rats that are associated with schizophrenia. These cognitive deficits can be normalized by inhibition of nitric oxide synthase. The development of selective microelectrochemical nitric oxide sensors may provide direct evidence for the involvement of nitric oxide in these effects. The aim of the present study was to use LIVE (long term in vivo electrochemistry) to investigate the effect of phencyclidine, alone or in combination with the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor L-NAME, on nitric oxide levels in the medial prefrontal cortex of freely moving rats. Phencyclidine (2 mg kg(-1)) produced an increase in cortical nitric oxide levels and this increase was ameliorated by L-NAME (10 mg kg(-1)). Tentatively, the results from the present study provide a biochemical rationale for the involvement of nitric oxide in the phencyclidine model of schizophrenia.
Reporter gene-based magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) offers unique insights into behavior of cells after transplantation, which could significantly benefit stem cell research and translation. Several candidate MRI reporter genes, including one that encodes for iron storage protein ferritin, have been reported, and their potential applications in embryonic stem (ES) cell research have yet to be explored. We have established transgenic mouse ES (mES) cell lines carrying human ferritin heavy chain (FTH) as a reporter gene and succeeded in monitoring the cell grafts in vivo using T(2)-weighted MRI sequences. FTH generated MRI contrast through compensatory upregulation of transferrin receptor (Tfrc) that led to increased cellular iron stored in ferritin-bound form. At a level sufficient for MRI contrast, expression of FTH posed no toxicity to mES cells and did not interfere with stem cell pluripotency as observed in neural differentiation and teratoma formation. The compatibility and functionality of ferritin as a reporter in mES cells opens up the possibility of using MRI for longitudinal noninvasive monitoring of ES cell-derived cell grafts at both molecular and cellular levels.
Metolachlor is one of the most intensively used chloroacetamide herbicides. However, its effects on the environment and on non-target animals and humans as well as its interference at a cell/molecular level have not yet been fully elucidated. The aim of this study was: firstly, to evaluate the potential toxicity of metolachlor at a cell/subcellular level by using two in vitro biological model systems (a strain of Bacillus stearothermophilus and rat liver mitochondria); secondly, to evaluate the relative sensibility of these models to xenobiotics to reinforce their suitability for pollutant toxicity assessment. Our results show that metolachlor inhibits growth and impairs the respiratory activity of B.stearothermophilus at concentrations two to three orders of magnitude higher than those at which bacterial cells are affected by other pesticides. Also at concentrations significantly higher than those of other pesticides, metolachlor depressed the respiratory control ratio, membrane potential and respiration of rat liver mitochondria when malate/glutamate or succinate were used as respiratory substrates. Moreover, metolachlor impaired the respiratory activity of rat liver mitochondria in the same concentration range at which it inhibited bacterial respiratory system (0.4-5.0 micromol/mg of protein). In conclusion, the high concentration range at which metolachlor induces toxicity in vitro suggests that this compound is safer than other pesticides previously studied in our laboratory, using the same model systems. The good parallelism between metolachlor effects on both models and the toxicity data described in the literature, together with results obtained in our laboratory with other compounds, indicate the suitability of these systems to assess toxicity in vitro.
Acculturation to U.S. culture by Latinos and Asian Americans has been associated with increased prevalence of substance abuse. However, little is known about the association between acculturation and substance use among Arab Americans, or more specifically, among Arab-American treatment clients. In 156 Arab-American male treatment clients, we found that higher levels of U.S. acculturation were positively associated with increased prevalence of polysubstance abuse. This first report on a large series of Arab-American clients also found considerable within-group variability. These results can be used to develop treatment plans and work-force training on the importance of U.S. acculturation and variability within Arab Americans.
Microtubules have been regarded as essential structures for stable neuronal morphology but new studies are highlighting their role in dynamic neuronal processes. Recent work demonstrates that the microtubule cytoskeleton has an active role during different phases of neuronal polarization - microtubules and their stability determine axon formation, they maintain the identity of axons and they regulate the dynamics of dendritic spines, the major sites of excitatory synaptic input. Although microtubules fulfill distinct cellular functions at different developmental stages, the underlying molecular mechanisms are remarkably similar. Reccurring themes are that microtubules direct specific membrane traffic and affect actin dynamics to locally organize axon growth and spine dynamics. We review the novel role of microtubules during neuronal development and discuss models for microtubule-dependent signaling in neuronal plasticity.
Behavioral analyses are a natural choice for understanding the wide-ranging behavioral consequences of racial stereotyping and prejudice. However, studies using neuroimaging and electrophysiological research have recently considered the neural mechanisms that underlie racial categorization and the activation and application of racial stereotypes and prejudice, revealing exciting new insights. Work that we review here points to the importance of neural structures previously associated with face processing, semantic knowledge activation, evaluation and self-regulatory behavioral control, enabling specification of a neural model of race processing. We show how research on the neural correlates of race can serve to link otherwise disparate lines of evidence on the neural underpinnings of a broad array of social-cognitive phenomena; we also consider the implications for effecting change in race relations.
Cognitive neurosciencists have recently begun to study self-consiousness and intersubjectivity but have not yet taken into account adequately the influence of culture on these phenomena. Here, we argue against the nave inclusion of 'culture' as an additional independent factor that can be empirically addressed adequately merely by considering mother tongue or nationality. Instead, we propose that culture needs to be considered as a dynamical system of individuals; that culture is in continous dialectic interaction and exchange with the individuals that constitute it; and that cultural classifications feed back into social practices and identity processes, hence exhibiting a 'looping effect'. These proposals have important implications for the development of cultural neuroscience.

The renin-angiotensin system (RAS) is an important regulator of blood pressure. Observational and experimental studies suggest that alterations in blood pressure and components of the brain RAS contribute to the development and progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD), resulting in changes that can lead or contribute to cognitive decline. The complexity of the RAS and diversity of its interactions with neurological processes have recently become apparent but large gaps in our understanding still remain. Modulation of activity of components of the brain RAS offers substantial opportunities for the treatment and prevention of dementia, including AD. This paper reviews molecular, genetic, experimental and clinical data as well as the therapeutic opportunities that relate to the involvement of the RAS in AD.
Recent progress in cognitive neuroscience highlights the involvement of the prefrontal cortex (PFC) in social cognition. Accumulating evidence demonstrates that representations within the lateral PFC enable people to coordinate their thoughts and actions with their intentions to support goal-directed social behavior. Despite the importance of this region in guiding social interactions, remarkably little is known about the functional organization and forms of social inference processed by the lateral PFC. Here, we introduce a cognitive neuroscience framework for understanding the inferential architecture of the lateral PFC, drawing upon recent theoretical developments in evolutionary psychology and emerging neuroscience evidence about how this region can orchestrate behavior on the basis of evolutionarily adaptive social norms for obligatory, prohibited and permissible courses of action.
The transition from acute to chronic pain states might be the most important challenge in research to improve clinical treatment of debilitating pain. We describe a recently identified mechanism of neuronal plasticity in primary afferent nociceptive nerve fibers (nociceptors) by which an acute inflammatory insult or environmental stressor can trigger long-lasting hypersensitivity of nociceptors to inflammatory cytokines. This phenomenon, &quot;hyperalgesic priming,&quot; depends on the epsilon isoform of protein kinase C (PKCepsilon) and a switch in intracellular signaling pathways that mediate cytokine-induced nociceptor hyperexcitability. We discuss the impact of this discovery on our understanding of, and ultimately our ability to treat, a variety of enigmatic and debilitating pain conditions, including those associated with repetitive injury, and generalized pain conditions, such as fibromyalgia.
The issue of non-specific effects for potential therapeutics is particularly salient in neurological/psychiatric disorders, where adverse drug reactions could impair critical brain functions. The issue of specificity is not limited to candidate molecules, as receptor targets themselves often influence physiological as well as pathological outcomes. Metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 (mGlu5) is an example of a &quot;promiscuous&quot; receptor target that has been implicated in addiction, but also many other processes. However, if receptor modulation could be restricted to specific pathways/brain regions, mGlu5 may still prove to be a viable therapeutic target for various indications. Using this premise, a number of possible methods to refine drug development strategy are discussed, including exploiting specific interactions of mGlu5 with other receptors to narrow the influence of pharmacological agents, and also the use of RNA interference targeted to specific cells/regions of the brain.

Darwin's largest contribution to science is without doubt the mechanism of natural selection, an evolutionary game with players, strategies, and pay-offs. Game theory, which attempts to mathematically capture behaviour in situations where an organism's success in making choices depends on the choices of others, is not only important for economists, but also for biologists, veterinarians and other scientists, as it increases understanding of why individual differences exist. John Maynard Smith showed that the success of an individual's behaviour often depends on others and his Hawk-Dove model is one of the best known examples of game theory: the 'hawk' initiates aggressive behaviour (not stopping until injured or until the opponent backs down); the 'dove' retreats immediately if the opponent initiates aggressive behaviour and will not fight under any circumstances. Simultaneous hawkish behaviour has the worst pay-off for both players, whereas hawkish behaviour with a dove opponent has the best pay-off. Maynard Smith showed that natural selection will work towards an evolutionarily stable strategy that, when used by an entire population, is resistant to invasion by new mutant strategies. Thus, natural selection actually favours a particular ratio of aggressive hawkish and non-aggressive dovish behaviours in order to maintain a balance of different characteristics in the population. Natural selection has sculpted physiology and behaviour differently in hawks and doves, each in their own way so as to maintain stability of the internal environment through change--a process which is defined as allostasis. In the short term, allostasis has benefits, but in the long run it produces costs. Farm animals have been genetically selected by man for increased product quantity and quality, such as increased muscle volume, lean meat and egg shell quality, accompanied by altered steroid balance (such as more testosterone and less corticosteroids) and lower brain monoamine concentrations (serotonin and dopamine). It is hypothesised that such genetic selection results in the production of farm animals that prefer the hawk behavioural strategy. There is a growing body of evidence that hawk-like animals (such as laying hens and pigs) are more vulnerable to the development of increased impulsivity and compulsivity (stereotypies) as well as violent behaviour.
The polyomavirus JC (JCV) causes the demyelinating disease progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML). Infection by JCV is very common in childhood after which the virus enters a latent state, which is poorly understood. Under conditions of severe immunosuppression, especially AIDS, JCV may reactivate to cause PML. Expression of JC viral proteins is regulated by the JCV non-coding control region (NCCR), which contains an NF-kappaB binding site previously shown to activate transcription. We now report that C/EBPbeta inhibits basal and NF-kappaB-stimulated JCV transcription via the same site. Gel shift analysis showed C/EBPbeta bound to this region in vitro and ChIP assays confirmed this binding in vivo. Further, a ternary complex of NF-kappaB/p65, C/EBPbeta-LIP and JCV DNA could be detected in co-immunoprecipitation experiments. Mutagenesis analysis of the JCV NCCR indicated p65 and C/EBPbeta-LIP bound to adjacent but distinct sites and that both sites regulate basal and p65-stimulated transcription. Thus C/EBPbeta negatively regulates JCV, which together with NF-kappaB activation, may control the balance between JCV latency and activation leading to PML. This balance may be regulated by proinflammatory cytokines in the brain.
The watercolor effect (WCE) is a long-range color assimilation effect occurring within an area enclosed by a light chromatic contour, which in turn is surrounded by a dark chromatic contour. Here, we studied the effects of chromatic modulation of the WCE for different kinds of spacing between and within the inducing contours, using a hue-cancellation method. When an empty zone or interspace was inserted between the inducing contours (radial spacing), the hue shift required to null the induced coloration rapidly decreased with increasing spacing between the two contours. Similarly, when the continuous contours were replaced by dotted contours (lateral spacing), the shift in chromaticity quickly decreased with increasing distance between the dots. In this case, the decrease was similar for chains of paired dots (&quot;in-phase&quot;) and chains of unpaired dots (&quot;out-of-phase&quot;). Results demonstrate that the WCE is strongest when the two inducing contours are spatially contiguous and continuous. The neural implications of these findings are discussed.
In his plenary session entitled Five Questions on the Future, Harvard anthropologist Arthur Kleinman capitalized on the 2009 Society for Medical Anthropology Conference's theme of Medical Anthropology at the Intersections to speculate on the future of the discipline.



In this review, evidence is presented to support the hypothesis that mechanosensory transduction occurs in tubes and sacs and can initiate visceral pain. Experimental evidence for this mechanism in urinary bladder, ureter, gut, lung, uterus, tooth-pulp and tongue is reviewed. Potential therapeutic strategies are considered for the treatment of visceral pain in such conditions as renal colic, interstitial cystitis and inflammatory bowel disease by agents that interfere with mechanosensory transduction in the organs considered, including P2X3 and P2X2/3 receptor antagonists that are orally bioavailable and stable in vivo and agents that inhibit or enhance ATP release and breakdown.
Prior investigations have reported that changes in the prefrontal electroencephalogram (EEG) precede symptom improvement from antidepressant medications, and could serve as a biomarker of treatment outcome in major depressive disorder (MDD). A new physiologically defined region of interest (ROI), overlying the midline and right frontal (MRF) cortical area, was examined here for a relationship between early decreases in theta-band cordance and remission. Subjects were 72 adults with unipolar MDD who had completed placebo-controlled antidepressant treatment trials, with 37 randomized to medication and 35 to placebo. We assessed changes in cordance and absolute and relative power in the MRF region at 48 h, 1 week, and 2 weeks after start of drug, as potential predictors of remission (final score on the 17-item Hamilton Depression Rating Scale of 5 or below. Out of 37 medication-treated subjects, 11 (30%) remitted versus 6 of 35 placebo subjects (17%). Change in MRF cordance 1 and 2 weeks after the beginning of treatment was significantly associated with remission in medication-treated subjects at 1 week, with receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis yielding 0.76 area under the curve. Decreases in MRF cordance at 1 week predicted remission with medication with 69% overall accuracy (90% sensitivity; 60% specificity). MRF cordance changes were not associated with remission with placebo. Absolute and relative power did not differentiate groups. These results suggest that remission may be predictable from physiologic measurements after 1 week of treatment, and that this region merits further investigation in the neurobiology of treatment response.
Several axis-I neuropsychiatric disorders are characterised by repetitive motor habits suggestive of underlying inhibitory dyscontrol, and may constitute members of a putative obsessive-compulsive (OC) spectrum. Notable examples include obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) and trichotillomania (repetitive hair-pulling). Multiple tiers of evidence link these conditions with underlying dysregulation of fronto-striatal circuitry and monoamine systems. These abnormalities represent key targets for existing and novel treatment interventions. Nonetheless, the brain bases of these conditions, and treatment mechanisms, remain poorly characterised. Animal models of repetitive habits and inhibitory control problems show great potential for augmenting our understanding of the pathophysiology and treatment of OC spectrum conditions. Here, we begin by describing clinical features of OC spectrum disorders, and criteria used to assess the validity of animal models of symptomatology. Namely, face validity (phenomenological similarity between inducing conditions and specific symptoms of the human phenomenon), predictive validity (similarity in response to treatment) and construct validity (similarity in underlying physiological or psychological mechanisms). We then survey animal models of OC spectrum conditions within this framework, focusing on (i) ethological models; (ii) genetic and pharmacological models; and (iii) behavioral models. Key future research directions are highlighted.
Clinical and neurobiological evidence suggests that concurrent presentation of schizophrenia and obsessive-compulsive (schizo-OCD) symptoms represents a distinct clinical entity. Given that obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) and schizophrenia have been modeled as having different neurofunctional profiles, the overlap between them represents a heuristic challenge for cognitive and endophenotype research. Event-related potentials (ERPs) may be used to probe neurophysiological correlates of the cognitive, emotional and behavioral disturbances found in neuropsychiatric entities such as schizo-OCD. Here we measure ERPs during a discriminative response task (DRT) in patients presenting with the DSM-IV criteria for both schizophrenia and OCD. We also performed these measurements in patients with OCD without psychotic features, as well as in patients with schizophrenia without OC symptoms. Schizo-OCD patients showed a distinct ERP pattern, with abnormally increased target activation (akin to OCD patients, but unlike the pattern observed in schizophrenic patients) and reduced P300 amplitudes (akin to schizophrenic patients, but unlike OCD patients). Similar to the control subjects, schizo-OCD patients showed larger amplitudes in the non-target condition than in the target condition. These results suggest that schizo-OCD may not only be a distinct clinical entity from pure OCD and schizophrenia, but it may also be characterized by a distinguishable neurophysiologic pattern. Neurobiological underpinnings deserve further considerations and might drive to a definition of a distinctive endophenotype for schizo-OCD in the de-construction of the schizophrenia endophenotype.
This study examines the degree to which an eating disorder (ED) is associated with the recurrence and severity of suicide attempts, non-suicidal self-injury, rates of co-occurring Axis I and II disorders, and psychosocial functioning among Borderline Personality Disorder (BPD) outpatients. A group of 135 treatment-seeking women with BPD were assessed using structured clinical interviews. BPD was assessed using the International Personality Disorders Examination, confirmed by the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV (SCID)-II, and Axis I disorders were assessed with the SCID I. A total of 17.8% of the sample met criteria for a current ED, with 6.7% meeting criteria for Anorexia Nervosa (AN), 5.9% for Bulimia Nervosa (BN), and 5.2% for Binge-Eating Disorder (BED). In this BPD sample, in the last year, current BN was associated with a significantly greater risk of recurrent suicide attempts while current AN was associated with increased risk of recurrent non-suicidal self-injury. BPD with current AN or BED was associated with a greater number of non-ED current Axis I disorders. Further replication of these results is needed. Women with BPD must be assessed for AN and BN as these diagnoses may confer greater risk for suicidal and self-injurious behavior and may have to be prioritized in treatment.
Numerous studies have demonstrated anatomical and functional neuroplasticity following spinal cord injury. One of the more notable examples is return of ipsilateral phrenic motoneuron and diaphragm activity which can be induced under terminal neurophysiological conditions after high cervical hemisection in the rat. More recently it has been shown that a protracted, spontaneous recovery also occurs in this model. While a candidate neural substrate has been identified for the former, the neuroanatomical basis underlying spontaneous recovery has not been explored. Demonstrations of spinal respiratory interneurons in other species suggest such cells may play a role; however, the presence of interneurons in the adult rat phrenic circuit - the primary animal model of respiratory plasticity - has not been extensively investigated. Emerging neuroanatomical and electrophysiological results raise the possibility of a more complex neural network underlying spontaneous recovery of phrenic function and compensatory respiratory neuroplasticity after C2 hemisection than has been previously considered.
Devastating central nervous system injuries and diseases continue to occur in spite of the tremendous efforts of various prevention programs. The enormity and annual escalation of healthcare costs due to them require that therapeutic strategies be responsibly developed. The dysfunctions that occur after injury and disease are primarily due to neurotransmission damage. The last two decades of both experimental and clinical research have demonstrated that neural and non-neural tissue and cell transplantation is a viable option for ameliorating dysfunctions to markedly improve quality of life. Moreover, significant progress has been made with tissue and cell transplantation in studies of pathophysiology, plasticity, sprouting, regeneration, and functional recovery. This article will review information about the ability and potential, particularly for traumatic spinal cord injury, that neural and non-neural tissue and cell transplantation has to replace lost neurons and glia, to reconstruct damaged neural circuitry, and to restore neurotransmitters, hormones, neurotrophic factors, and neurotransmission. Donor tissues and cells to be discussed include peripheral nerve, fetal spinal cord and brain, central and peripheral nervous systems' glia, stem cells, those that have been genetically engineered, and non-neural ones. Combinatorial approaches and clinical research are also reviewed.
Plasminogen activators play an active role in synaptic plasticity associated with the crossed phrenic phenomenon (CPP) and recovery of respiratory function following spinal cord injury. A genetic approach has been used to identify molecular mechanisms underlying this synaptic plasticity. Knockout mice lacking different genes in the plasminogen activator/plasmin system demonstrate that expression of urokinase plasminogen activator (uPA) is required during the critical 1-2h delay period following C2-hemisection for the acquisition of a good CPP response. uPA knockout mice fail to show the structural remodeling of phrenic motorneuron synapses that underlie the CPP response. Potential mechanisms by which uPA may promote phrenic motorneuron synaptic plasticity have been explored. Expression of uPA receptors, uPAR and LRP-1, are both up-regulated in the ipsilateral phrenic motor nucleus (PMN) following C2-hemisection. A comparison of microarray data and real-time PCR analysis of mRNAs induced in the PMN after hemisection indicate potential cell signaling pathways downstream of uPA's interaction with these cell surface receptors in the PMN. Knowledge of these uPA-mediated signaling pathways may identify potential means for the pharmacological activation of the synaptic plasticity required for recovery of phrenic motorneuron activity.
p27kip1 is a cyclin/CDK inhibitor that is expressed in cells that exit cell cycle and turn post-mitotic. Here, we characterized the expression and localization of p27kip1 during the development of the chick embryo retina. Expression of p27kip1 in this tissue begins at embryonic day 5 (E5), increasing as development proceeds. In contrast to the expression in the developing rat retina that markedly decreases after postnatal day 6, expression of p27kip1 in the chick retina decreases only slightly ( approximately 30%) after E12. Thereafter, it remains highly expressed in the tissue. p27kip1 expression increases in an orderly succession. By E5, immunoreactivity was observed over beta-tubulin III (TUJ-1) positive cell bodies located in the prospective Ganglion Cell Layer. By E7, p27kip1 was also detected over elongated cell nuclei located in the inner and outer portions of the Neuroblastic Layer and over cell bodies in the middle of the Inner Plexiform Layer. By E12, besides labeled cell bodies, labeled processes from amacrine cells and from cells at the GCL in the IPL were identified. In retinas from post-hatched chicken, immunoreactivity was observed over cell bodies located at all nuclear layers. Several differentiated ChAT positive cholinergic cells were labeled for p27kip1. Our data suggest that, as in the retina of other species, p27kip1 is expressed in cells that are exiting cell cycle and differentiating in the early developing chick embryo retina. However, as opposed to rodents and amphibians, neuronal expression of p27kip1 is sustained in the adult chick retina, indicating that its expression is differently regulated during development in this specie.
It is well known that fibroblasts can act as a cell vector to express functional protein, like neurotrophin-4 (NT-4). The present study evaluated the effect of NT-4 gene modified fibroblasts grafted into the hippocampus of AD rat model. AD rats were reproduced by bilateral transection of the hippocampal fimbria-fornix. The transplanted fibroblasts steadily expressed NT-4 proteins at least 2 months after transplantation. This correlated with a significant rescue in the number of cholinergic neurons in the host hippocampus. Morris water maze tests demonstrated significant improvements in learning and memory, especially in rats receiving NT-4-modified fibroblasts. The present results showed that NT-4 gene modified fibroblasts could provide a long-term and steady expression of NT-4, and it significantly improved the behavior of AD rats. These findings should have important clinical applications in providing a long-term NT-4 Secretion for the treatment of AD.
Water deprivation is a stress that has been associated with activation of several endocrine systems, including circumventricular organs of the central nervous system. The sub-comissural organ (SCO), characterized by its glycoprotein secretion called Reissner's fiber has been suggested to play a role in the regulation of body water balance. Meriones shawi, a semi-desertic rodent characterized by its resistance to long periods of thirst was subjected to water deprivation for 1 and 3 months. Effect of water deprivation was evaluated immunohistochemically on 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT; serotonin) system and glycoprotein secretion of the SCO. Our findings demonstrate significant reduction of anti-Reissner's fiber immunoreactive materials within basal and apical parts of the SCO ependymocytes. These changes seem to be the consequence of reduced control by 5-HT fibers reaching the SCO as a concomitant and significant reduction of anti-5-HT immunoreactive fibers are also observed following water deprivation. 5-HT immunoreactive reduction is seen in several regions in the brain including the neurons of origin within the dorsal raphe nucleus and the projecting supra and sub-ependymal fibers reaching the classical ependyma of the third ventricle. The extent of Reissner's fiber and 5-HT immunoreactive changes significantly correlates with the severity of water restriction. We suggest that water deprivation causes changes of the classical ependyma and the specialized ependyma that differentiates into the SCO as well as other cirumventricular organs such as the subfornical organ and the organum vasculosum laminae terminalis known to control drinking behaviors.
Subcellular localization of messenger RNAs (mRNAs) can give precise control over where protein products are synthesized and operate. However, just 10 years ago many in the broader cell biology community would have considered this a specialized mechanism restricted to a very small fraction of transcripts. Since then, it has become clear that subcellular targeting of mRNAs is prevalent, and there is mounting evidence for central roles for this process in many cellular events. Here, we review current knowledge of the mechanisms and functions of mRNA localization in animal cells.
Despite the growing number of atomic-resolution membrane protein structures, direct structural information about proteins in their native membrane environment is scarce. This problem is particularly relevant in the case of the highly charged S1-S4 voltage-sensing domains responsible for nerve impulses, where interactions with the lipid bilayer are critical for the function of voltage-activated ion channels. Here we use neutron diffraction, solid-state nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy and molecular dynamics simulations to investigate the structure and hydration of bilayer membranes containing S1-S4 voltage-sensing domains. Our results show that voltage sensors adopt transmembrane orientations and cause a modest reshaping of the surrounding lipid bilayer, and that water molecules intimately interact with the protein within the membrane. These structural findings indicate that voltage sensors have evolved to interact with the lipid membrane while keeping energetic and structural perturbations to a minimum, and that water penetrates the membrane, to hydrate charged residues and shape the transmembrane electric field.


The amygdala is a brain region that coordinates fear responses to a variety of threats. Ziemann et al. (2009) now show that acid-sensing channels in the amygdala mediate fear responses that accompany inhalation of carbon dioxide, suggesting that aberrant chemosensation may underlie anxiety disorders associated with a fear of suffocation.
Adenosine A(1) and cannabinoid CB(1) receptors are affected by drugs widely consumed by humans, as it is the case for caffeine, an adenosine receptor antagonist, and tetrahydrocannabinol, a cannabinoid receptor agonist. These receptors are present in the hippocampus and inhibit neurotransmitter release by operating similar transduction mechanisms. We, therefore, evaluated if they cross-talk to modulate synaptic transmission in the hippocampus. To do so, field excitatory postsynaptic potentials (fEPSPs) were recorded from the CA1 area of rat hippocampal slices and the consequences of activation or blockade of cannabinoid CB(1) or adenosine A(1) receptors upon neuromodulation exerted by the other receptor were assessed. The cannabinoid CB(1) receptor agonist, WIN55212-2 (300nM), slowly decreased ( congruent with40%) the fEPSP slope, while the adenosine A(1) receptor agonist, cyclopenthyladenosine (CPA, 15nM) rapidly decreased ( congruent with50%) it. Blockade of cannabinoid CB(1) receptors with AM251 (1microM) did not influence the adenosine A(1) receptor-mediated inhibition of synaptic transmission. Blockade of adenosine A(1) receptors with 1,3-dipropyl-8-cyclopentylxanthine (DPCPX, 50nM) did not affect the inhibition perpetrated by cannabinoid CB(1) receptor activation. When both receptors were simultaneously activated (5nM CPA plus 300nM WIN55212-2) the net inhibition of synaptic transmission was about the sum of the effect of each drug applied independently. These results indicate independent synaptic transmission modulation by adenosine A(1) and cannabinoid CB(1) receptors at the hippocampus, suggesting that availability of G-proteins coupled to each receptor and availability of other signalling molecules involved in their transducing pathways, are not limiting factors for their modulatory role.
In a previous work we found that the insecticide 1,1,1-trichloro-2,2-bis(p-chlorophenyl)ethane (DDT), inhibits the accumulation of cAMP as induced by the bovine thyroid stimulating hormone (bTSH) in cells transfected with the TSH receptor. In this work, we demonstrate that the DDT molecular analogues, diethylstilbestrol and quercetine, are more potent inhibitors of the TSH receptor activity than DDT itself. The notion that all these compounds interfere with nuclear estrogen receptors, as either agonists (DDT and diethylstilbestrol) or antagonists (quercetin), prompted us to test the ability of the steroid hormone 17-beta-estradiol to inhibit the TSH receptor activity. We found that estrogen exposure causes a modest but significant inhibition of the bTSH induced cAMP accumulation both in transfected CHO-TSH receptor and Fischer Rat Thyroid Low Serum 5% (FRTL-5) cells. When applied to CHO cells transfected with the luteinizing hormone receptor, 17-beta-estradiol proved capable of inhibiting the hCG induced cAMP accumulation at a concentration as low as 10nM, though the effect was not greater than 35%. The effect of 17-beta-estradiol was not estrogen receptors mediated, as co-transfection of the estrogen receptor alpha and beta subunits with LH receptor caused cAMP to increase above the level attained by the sole hCG stimulation, and not to decrease it as expected. These data suggest the presence of a steroidal-like allosteric binding site on glycoprotein hormone receptors.
The tolloid/bone morphogenetic protein-1 family of metalloproteinases have an important role in the regulation of embryonic pattern formation and tissue morphogenesis. Studies suggest that they participate in mechanisms of synaptic plasticity in adults, but very little is known about their function. Recently, we isolated a reptilian ortholog of the tolloid gene family designated turtle tolloid-like gene (tTll). Here, we examined the role of tTLL in an in vitro model of eyeblink classical conditioning using an isolated brainstem preparation to assess its role in synaptic plasticity during conditioning. Analysis by real-time reverse transcription-PCR shows that an extracellularly secreted form of tTLL, tTLLs, is transiently expressed in the early stages of conditioning during conditioned response acquisition, whereas a cytosolic form, tTLLc, is not. Short interfering RNA (siRNA)-directed gene knockdown and rescue of tTLL expression demonstrate that it is required for conditioning. Significantly, we show that tTLLs cleaves the precursor proBDNF into mature BDNF in cleavage assay studies, and application of recombinant tTLLs protein alone to preparations results in induction of mature BDNF expression. The mature form of BDNF is minimally expressed in preparations treated with anti-tTLL siRNA, and the synaptic incorporation of both GluR1- and GluR4-containing AMPA receptors is significantly reduced, resulting in suppression of conditioning. This is the first study to demonstrate that expression of an extracellularly secreted tolloid-like metalloproteinase is regulated in the early stages of classical conditioning and functions in the conversion of proBDNF to mature BDNF. The mature form of BDNF is required for synaptic delivery of AMPA receptors and acquisition of conditioned responses.
Transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) derived from bone marrow has been shown to improve functional outcome in spinal cord injury (SCI). We transplanted MSCs derived from human bone marrow (hMSCs) to study their potential therapeutic effect in SCI in the rat. In addition to hMSCs, we used gene-modified hMSCs to secrete brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF-hMSCs). After a dorsal transection lesion was induced at T9, cells were microinjected on each side of the transection site. Fluorogold (FG) was injected into the epicenter of the lesion cavity to identify transected corticospinal tract (CST) neurons. At 5 weeks after transplantation, the animals were perfused. Locomotor recovery improvement was observed for the BDNF-hMSC group, but not in the hMSC group. Structurally there was increased sprouting of injured corticospinal tract and serotonergic projections after hMSC and BDNF-hMSC transplantation. Moreover, an increased number of serotonergic fibers was observed in spinal gray matter including the ventral horn at and below the level of the lesion, indicating increased innervation in the terminal regions of a descending projection important for locomotion. Stereological quantification was performed on the brains to determine neuronal density in primary motor (M1) cortex. The number of FG backfilled cells demonstrated an increased cell survival of CST neurons in M1 cortex in both the hMSC and BDNF-hMSC groups at 5 weeks, but the increase for the BDNF-hMSC group was greater. These results indicate that transplantation of hMSCs hypersecreting BDNF results in structural changes in brain and spinal cord, which are associated with improved functional outcome in acute SCI.
Personality traits related to emotion processing are, at least in part, heritable and genetically determined. Dopamine D(2) receptor signaling is involved in modulation of emotional behavior and activity of associated brain regions such as the amygdala and the prefrontal cortex. An intronic single nucleotide polymorphism within the D(2) receptor gene (DRD2) (rs1076560, guanine &gt; thymine or G &gt; T) shifts splicing of the two protein isoforms (D(2) short, mainly presynaptic, and D(2) long) and has been associated with modulation of memory performance and brain activity. Here, our aim was to investigate the association of DRD2 rs1076560 genotype with personality traits of emotional stability and with brain physiology during processing of emotionally relevant stimuli. DRD2 genotype and Big Five Questionnaire scores were evaluated in 134 healthy subjects demonstrating that GG subjects have reduced &quot;emotion control&quot; compared with GT subjects. Functional magnetic resonance imaging in a sample of 24 individuals indicated greater amygdala activity during implicit processing and greater dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) response during explicit processing of facial emotional stimuli in GG subjects compared with GT. Other results also demonstrate an interaction between DRD2 genotype and facial emotional expression on functional connectivity of both amygdala and dorsolateral prefrontal regions with overlapping medial prefrontal areas. Moreover, rs1076560 genotype is associated with differential relationships between amygdala/DLPFC functional connectivity and emotion control scores. These results suggest that genetically determined D(2) signaling may explain part of personality traits related to emotion processing and individual variability in specific brain responses to emotionally relevant inputs.
Gibbon's scalar expectancy theory assumes three processing stages in time estimation: a collating level in which event durations are automatically tracked, a counting level that reads out the time-tracking system, and a comparing level in which event durations are matched to abstract temporal references. Pppel's theory, however, postulates a dual system for perception of durations below and above 2 s. By testing the neurophysiological plausibility of Gibbon's proposal using functional magnetic resonance imaging, we validate a three-staged model of time estimation and further show that the collating process is duplicated. Although the motor system automatically tracks durations below 2 s, mesial brain regions of the so-called &quot;default mode network&quot; keep track of longer events. Our results further support unique counting and comparing systems, involving prefrontal and parietal cortices in collators' readout, and the temporal cortex in contextual time estimation. These findings provide a coherent neuroanatomical framework for two theories of time perception.
NADPH oxidase is a major complex that produces reactive oxygen species (ROSs) during the ischemic period and aggravates brain damage and cell death after ischemic injury. Although many approaches have been tested for preventing production of ROSs by NADPH oxidase in ischemic brain injury, the regulatory mechanisms of NADPH oxidase activity after cerebral ischemia are still unclear. In this study, we identified casein kinase 2 (CK2) as a critical modulator of NADPH oxidase and elucidated the role of CK2 as a neuroprotectant after oxidative insults to the brain. We found that the protein levels of the catalytic subunits CK2alpha and CK2alpha', as well as the total activity of CK2, are significantly reduced after transient focal cerebral ischemia (tFCI). We also found this deactivation of CK2 caused by ischemia/reperfusion increases expression of Nox2 and translocation of p67(phox) and Rac1 to the membrane after tFCI. Interestingly, we found that the inactive status of Rac1 was captured by the catalytic subunit CK2alpha under normal conditions. However, binding between CK2alpha and Rac1 was immediately diminished after tFCI, and Rac1 activity was markedly increased after CK2 inhibition. Moreover, we found that deactivation of CK2 in the mouse brain enhances production of ROSs and neuronal cell death via increased NADPH oxidase activity. The increased brain infarct volume caused by CK2 inhibition was restored by apocynin, a NADPH oxidase inhibitor. This study suggests that CK2 can be a direct molecular target for modulation of NADPH oxidase activity after ischemic brain injury.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by memory impairment, neurochemically by accumulation of beta-amyloid peptide (namely Abeta(1-42)) and morphologically by an initial loss of nerve terminals. Caffeine consumption prevents memory dysfunction in different models, which is mimicked by antagonists of adenosine A(2A) receptors (A(2A)Rs), which are located in synapses. Thus, we now tested whether A(2A)R blockade prevents the early Abeta(1-42)-induced synaptotoxicity and memory dysfunction and what are the underlying signaling pathways. The intracerebral administration of soluble Abeta(1-42) (2 nmol) in rats or mice caused, 2 weeks later, memory impairment (decreased performance in the Y-maze and object recognition tests) and a loss of nerve terminal markers (synaptophysin, SNAP-25) without overt neuronal loss, astrogliosis, or microgliosis. These were prevented by pharmacological blockade [5-amino-7-(2-phenylethyl)-2-(2-furyl)-pyrazolo[4,3-e]-1,2,4-triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidine (SCH58261); 0.05 mg . kg(-1) . d(-1), i.p.; for 15 d] in rats, and genetic inactivation of A(2A)Rs in mice. Moreover, these were synaptic events since purified nerve terminals acutely exposed to Abeta(1-42) (500 nm) displayed mitochondrial dysfunction, which was prevented by A(2A)R blockade. SCH58261 (50 nm) also prevented the initial synaptotoxicity (loss of MAP-2, synaptophysin, and SNAP-25 immunoreactivity) and subsequent loss of viability of cultured hippocampal neurons exposed to Abeta(1-42) (500 nm). This A(2A)R-mediated control of neurotoxicity involved the control of Abeta(1-42)-induced p38 phosphorylation and was independent from cAMP/PKA (protein kinase A) pathway. Together, these results show that A(2A)Rs play a crucial role in the development of Abeta-induced synaptotoxicity leading to memory dysfunction through a p38 MAPK (mitogen-activated protein kinase)-dependent pathway and provide a molecular basis for the benefits of caffeine consumption in AD.
The striatum is thought to play a crucial role in value-based decision making. Although a large body of evidence suggests its involvement in action selection as well as action evaluation, underlying neural processes for these functions of the striatum are largely unknown. To obtain insights on this matter, we simultaneously recorded neuronal activity in the dorsal and ventral striatum of rats performing a dynamic two-armed bandit task, and examined temporal profiles of neural signals related to animal's choice, its outcome, and action value. Whereas significant neural signals for action value were found in both structures before animal's choice of action, signals related to the upcoming choice were relatively weak and began to emerge only in the dorsal striatum approximately 200 ms before the behavioral manifestation of the animal's choice. In contrast, once the animal revealed its choice, signals related to choice and its value increased steeply and persisted until the outcome of animal's choice was revealed, so that some neurons in both structures concurrently conveyed signals related to animal's choice, its outcome, and the value of chosen action. Thus, all the components necessary for updating values of chosen actions were available in the striatum. These results suggest that the striatum not only represents values associated with potential choices before animal's choice of action, but might also update the value of chosen action once its outcome is revealed. In contrast, action selection might take place elsewhere or in the dorsal striatum only immediately before its behavioral manifestation.
Synaptic activity initiates many adaptive responses in neurons. Here we report a novel form of structural plasticity in dissociated hippocampal cultures and slice preparations. Using a recently developed algorithm for three-dimensional image reconstruction and quantitative measurements of cell organelles, we found that many nuclei from hippocampal neurons are highly infolded and form unequally sized nuclear compartments. Nuclear infoldings are dynamic structures, which can radically transform the geometry of the nucleus in response to neuronal activity. Action potential bursting causing synaptic NMDA receptor activation dramatically increases the number of infolded nuclei via a process that requires the ERK-MAP kinase pathway and new protein synthesis. In contrast, death-signaling pathways triggered by extrasynaptic NMDA receptors cause a rapid loss of nuclear infoldings. Compared with near-spherical nuclei, infolded nuclei have a larger surface and increased nuclear pore complex immunoreactivity. Nuclear calcium signals evoked by cytosolic calcium transients are larger in small nuclear compartments than in the large compartments of the same nucleus; moreover, small compartments are more efficient in temporally resolving calcium signals induced by trains of action potentials in the theta frequency range (5 Hz). Synaptic activity-induced phosphorylation of histone H3 on serine 10 was more robust in neurons with infolded nuclei compared with neurons with near-spherical nuclei, suggesting a functional link between nuclear geometry and transcriptional regulation. The translation of synaptic activity-induced signaling events into changes in nuclear geometry facilitates the relay of calcium signals to the nucleus, may lead to the formation of nuclear signaling microdomains, and could enhance signal-regulated transcription.
Previous work has demonstrated post-retrieval impairment in associative learning paradigms, including those mediated by drugs of abuse, using nonspecific beta-adrenergic receptor (beta-AR) antagonists. Remarkably little is known about the role of the specific beta-AR subtypes, or other adrenergic receptors, in these effects. The current study examined the effects of beta(1) and beta(2), as well as alpha(1)-adrenergic receptor antagonism following retrieval of a cocaine conditioned place preference (CPP). We found that rats administered the beta(2) antagonist ICI 118,551 (8 mg/kg intraperitoneal [IP]) or the alpha(1) antagonist prazosin (1 mg/kg IP) following a drug-free test for CPP showed attenuated preference during a subsequent test, while the beta(1) antagonist betaxolol (5 or 10 mg/kg IP) and a lower dose of prazosin (0.3 mg/kg IP) had no effect. Furthermore, post-test microinfusion of ICI 118,551 (6 nmol/side) or prazosin (0.5 nmol/side) into the basolateral amygdala (BLA) also impaired a subsequent preference. Systemic or intra-BLA ICI 118,551 or prazosin administered to rats in their home cages, in the absence of a preference test, had no effect on CPP 24 h later. ICI 118,551 also attenuated the FOS response in the BLA induced by the CPP test. These results are the first to demonstrate a role for alpha(1)- and beta(2)-specific adrenergic mechanisms in post-retrieval memory processes. These systemic and site-specific injections, as well as the FOS immunohistochemical analyses, implicate the importance of specific noradrenergic signaling mechanisms within the BLA in post-retrieval plasticity.
Chemical synapses are the fundamental units that mediate communication between neurons in the mammalian brain. In contrast to the enormous progress made in mapping out postsynaptic contributions of receptors, scaffolding structures and receptor trafficking to synaptic transmission and plasticity, the small size of nerve terminals has largely precluded direct analyses of presynaptic modulation of excitability and transmitter release in central synapses. Recent studies performed in accessible synapses such as the calyx of Held, a giant axosomatic synapse in the sound localization circuit of the auditory brainstem, have provided tremendous insights into how central synapses regulate the dynamic gain range of synaptic transmission. This review will highlight experimental evidence that resolves several long-standing issues with respect to intricate interplays between the waveform of action potentials, Ca2+ currents and transmitter release and further conceptualize their relationships in a physiological context with theoretical models of the spatial organization of voltage-gated Ca2+ channels and synaptic vesicles at release sites.
Constructive mechanisms in the auditory system may restore a fragmented sound when a gap in this sound is rendered inaudible by noise to yield a continuity illusion. Using combined psychoacoustic and electroencephalography experiments in humans, we found that the sensory-perceptual mechanisms that enable restoration suppress auditory cortical encoding of gaps in interrupted sounds. When physically interrupted tones are perceptually restored, stimulus-evoked synchronization of cortical oscillations at approximately 4 Hz is suppressed as if physically uninterrupted sounds were encoded. The restoration-specific suppression is induced most strongly in primary-like regions in the right auditory cortex during illusorily filled gaps and also shortly before and after these gaps. Our results reveal that spontaneous modulations in slow evoked auditory cortical oscillations that are involved in encoding acoustic boundaries may determine the perceived continuity of sounds in noise. Such fluctuations could facilitate stable hearing of fragmented sounds in natural environments.
Type 1 cannabinoid (CB1) receptors mediate widespread synaptic plasticity, but how this contributes to systems-level plasticity and development in vivo is unclear. We tested whether CB1 signaling is required for development and plasticity of the whisker map in rat somatosensory cortex. Treatment with the CB1 antagonist AM251 during an early critical period for layer (L) 2/3 development (beginning postnatal day [P] 12-16) disrupted whisker map development, leading to inappropriate whisker tuning in L2/3 column edges and a blurred map. Early AM251 treatment also prevented experience-dependent plasticity in L2/3, including deprivation-induced synapse weakening and weakening of deprived whisker responses. CB1 blockade after P25 did not disrupt map development or plasticity. AM251 had no acute effect on sensory-evoked spiking and only modestly affected field potentials, suggesting that plasticity effects were not secondary to gross activity changes. These findings implicate CB1-dependent plasticity in systems-level development and early postnatal plasticity of the whisker map.
In the CA1 region of mice hippocampal slices, a strong tetanic stimulation of an input pathway triggers a long-lasting long-term potentiation (L-LTP), which requires protein synthesis for the development of its late phase. A weak tetanic stimulation of one pathway, which is incapable of triggering protein synthesis on its own, can nonetheless induce L-LTP if it is preceded by a strong stimulation of another pathway (synaptic capture-mediated L-LTP). We found that anisomycin (25 microM), a translational inhibitor, impaired the strong stimulation-induced L-LTP more severely when the drug was applied during the whole experiment than when delivered only around the induction period. Taking advantage of this phenomenon, we showed that the synaptic capture-mediated L-LTP was strongly dependent on mRNA translation.
Age-related depletion of androgens in men results in functional impairments in androgen-responsive tissues, such as the brain, resulting in increased risk for Alzheimer's disease. To investigate the relationship between normal age-related hormone loss and Alzheimer's disease risk, we evaluated the brain and serum levels of androgens and estrogen in aging male rats. We observed that increasing age was associated with a significant reduction in brain levels of the potent androgen dihydrotestosterone and a trend toward decreased testosterone. Brain levels of soluble beta-amyloid were observed to increase with age. Collectively, these findings highlight differences in brain and circulating levels of androgens during aging, and identify an inverse correlation with beta-amyloid levels that may be relevant to Alzheimer's disease risk.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a major adult-onset neurodegenerative disorder affecting the extrapyramidal motor system. A subset of patients develop PD as an autosomal dominant trait, of which PARK8 caused by mutations in the leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) gene is highlighted because of its high frequency and clinicopathological similarity to sporadic PD. Previous studies have suggested that overactivation of LRRK2 caused by missense mutations leads to neuronal toxicity in PARK8, although the regulatory mechanism that governs the kinase activity of LRRK2 remains unknown. In this study, we expressed the carboxyl-half fragments of LRRK2 (DeltaN-LRRK2) that harbors the kinase as well as the ras-like (ROC) domains in Sf9 cells, subjected them to in vitro phosphorylation reaction, and analyzed the autophosphorylation by matrix assisted laser desorption/ionization- time of flight (MALDI-TOF) mass spectrometer. We identified Ser1403, Thr1404, Thr1410, Thr1491 located within the ROC domain, as well as Thr1967 and Thr1969 in the kinase domain, as the autophosphorylation sites. Substitution of Thr1967, an autophosphorylation site located within the kinase domain, to Ala caused a significant decrease in the kinase activity, implicating Thr1967 in the kinase activity of LRRK2. Phosphospecific antibodies to the autophosphorylation sites specifically recognized full-length LRRK2 subjected to in vitro phosphorylation reaction, indicating that the autophosphorylation takes place in holoproteins. Further analysis of autophosphorylation will clarify the mechanism of activation of LRRK2, as well as the pathomechanism of PD in relation to overactivation of LRRK2.

Prolonged stress causes dysregulation in the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis and may contribute to the pathogenesis of major depressive disorder (MDD). MDD is associated with pathological changes in several brain regions, particularly the prefrontal cortex and hippocampus. Evidence from animal research suggests that one of the earliest signs of pathological change after exposure to stress is a reduction in hippocampal neurogenesis. We therefore sought to test the prediction that people in the earliest stages of a first episode of depression would show selective memory deficits on neurogenesis-dependent tasks. Our computational model predicts that new neurons are important for representing distinct contexts; thus, when overlapping memories are learned over an interval of several days, during which time some neuronal turnover has taken place, the neurogenesis should reduce the potential for interference between the overlapping memories. At much shorter time scales, within the span of a single memory episode, rather than contributing to pattern separation, neurogenesis might play more of an integrative role in mediating contextual associative learning. Consistent with this, empirical evidence from animal studies suggests a role for the new neurons in forming complex event memories that bridge across time delays. This leads us to predict selective memory deficits on putative neurogenesis-dependent tasks in the earliest pre-clinical stages of a first episode of depression, before a clinical diagnosis has been made and prior to the development of more serious pathological brain changes. We present the results of new simulations with the model, lending further support to the prediction that neurogenesis reduces interference when memory events are separated by several days. We also report findings from an empirical study in which we tested a large number of undergraduates on a set of cognitive and memory tests from the CANTAB battery, and also administered neuropsychological inventories for stress, depression and anxiety. One of the subtests in the CANTAB battery, the delayed match to sample (DMS) task, was of particular interest as delayed non-match to sample has been found in animal studies to be dependent upon neurogenesis. Our empirical results indicate that as predicted, participants scoring high on the Beck Depression Inventory show a selective deficit on the DMS at long delays while performing on par with non-depressed participants on all other tasks. The potential to detect very early signs of major depression using simple neurogenesis-dependent cognitive tests could have important implications for the diagnosis and treatment of this debilitating and highly prevalent disorder.
When faced with choices between two sources of reward, animals can rapidly adjust their rates of responding to each so that overall reinforcement increases. Herrnstein's 'matching law' provides a simple description of the equilibrium state of this choice allocation process: animals reallocate behavior so that relative rates of responding equal, or match, the relative rates of reinforcement obtained for each response. Herrnstein and colleagues proposed 'melioration' as a dynamical process for achieving this equilibrium, but left details of its operation unspecified. Here we examine a way of filling in the details that links the decision making and operant conditioning literatures and extends choice proportion predictions into predictions about inter-response times. Our approach implements melioration in an adaptive version of the drift diffusion model (DDM), which is widely used in decision making research to account for response time distributions. When the drift parameter of the DDM is 0 and its threshold parameters are inversely proportional to reward rates, its choice proportions dynamically track a state of exact matching. A DDM with fixed thresholds and drift that is determined by differences in reward rates can produce similar, but not identical, results. We examine the choice probability and inter-response time predictions of these models, separately and in combination, and the possible implications for brain organization provided by neural network implementations of them. Results suggest that melioration and matching may derive from synapses that estimate reward rates by a process of leaky integration, and that link together the input and output stages of a two-stage stimulus-response mechanism.
We used the motion aftereffect (MAE) to psychophysically characterize tuning of motion perception in the human visual system. The function relating MAE strength and the range of directions present in the adapter stimulus provides information regarding the width of direction tuning of motion adaptation. We compared the directional anisotropy in MAE tuning width to the well-known oblique effect in motion direction discrimination. In agreement with previous research, we found that subjects had lower motion direction discrimination thresholds for cardinal compared to oblique directions. For each subject, we also estimated MAE tuning width for a cardinal and an oblique direction by measuring the strength of the MAE for adapter stimuli containing different directional variances. The MAE tuning width was smaller for the cardinal direction, suggesting a fundamental similarity between motion direction discrimination and tuning of the MAE. We constructed a model of encoding of motion stimuli by V1 and MT and decoding of stimulus information from the cells in area MT. The model includes an anisotropy in the representation of different directions of motion in area V1. As a consequence of the connections implemented in the model, this anisotropy propagates to cells in MT. Model simulations predicted an oblique effect for both direction discrimination thresholds and MAE tuning width, consistent with our experimental results. The model also concurs with a recent report that the magnitude of the oblique effect for direction discrimination is inversely proportional to the directional variance of the stimulus. The agreement between model predictions and empirical data was obtained only when the model employed a maximum likelihood decoding algorithm. Alternative decoding mechanisms such as vector averaging and winner-take-all failed to account for the psychophysical results.
Change in behavior and neural activity in skill acquisition suggests that control is transferred from cortical planning areas (e.g., the prefrontal cortex, PFC) to the basal ganglia (BG). Planning has large computational and representational requirements but requires little experience with a task. The BG are thought to employ a simpler control scheme and reinforcement learning; these mechanisms rely on extensive experience. Many theoretical accounts of behavior in the face of uncertainty invoke planning mechanisms that explicitly take uncertainty into account. We suggest that the simpler mechanisms of the BG can also contribute to the development of behavior under such conditions. We focus on learning under conditions in which sensory information takes time to resolve, e.g., when a poorly perceived goal stimulus takes non-negligible time to identify. It may be advantageous to begin acting quickly under uncertainty--possibly via decisions that are suboptimal for the actual goal--rather than to wait for sensory information to fully resolve. We present a model of skill acquisition in which control is transferred, with experience, from a planning controller (denoted A), corresponding to the PFC, to a simpler controller (B), corresponding to the BG. We apply our model to a task in which a learning agent must execute a series of actions to achieve a goal (selected randomly at each trial from a small set). Over the course of a trial, the agent's goal representation evolves from representing all possible goals to only the selected goal. A is restricted to select movements only when goal representation is fully resolved. Model behavior is similar to that observed in humans accomplishing similar tasks. Thus, B can by itself account for the development of behavior under an evolving sensory representation, suggesting that the BG can contribute to learning and control under conditions of uncertainty.

In recent years, an array of brain mapping techniques has been successfully employed to link individual differences in circuit function or structure in the living human brain with individual variations in the human genome. Several proof-of-principle studies provided converging evidence that brain imaging can establish important links between genes and behaviour. The overarching goal is to use genetically informed brain imaging to pinpoint neurobiological mechanisms that contribute to behavioural intermediate phenotypes or disease states. This special issue on &quot;Linking Genes to Brain Function in Health and Disease&quot; provides an overview over how the &quot;imaging genetics&quot; approach is currently applied in the various fields of systems neuroscience to reveal the genetic underpinnings of complex behaviours and brain diseases. While the rapidly emerging field of imaging genetics holds great promise, the integration of genetic and neuroimaging data also poses major methodological and conceptual challenges. Therefore, this special issue also focuses on how these challenges can be met to fully exploit the synergism of genetically informed brain imaging.
In the past decade, several genetic mutations have been associated with different forms of familial focal and generalized epilepsies. Most of these genes encode ion-channel subunits. Based on neurophysiological in vitro and in vivo animal studies, substantial progress has been made in understanding the functional consequences of gene defects associated with epilepsies. However, the knowledge transition from animal studies to patients carrying a mutation, or even suffering from a nonfamilial form of epilepsy, is very limited. This review will illustrate how neuroimaging studies in humans may help to bridge the gap between genotype and phenotype. We will be presenting examples of familial focal (autosomal dominant nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy), idiopathic generalized epilepsies (severe myoclonic epilepsy of infancy). Such studies will help to better understand functional consequences of genetic alterations and may contribute to a better phenotype characterization.
Attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) has an established heritable component, but identifying the genes involved has proven difficult. To date, the two most investigated risk genes in ADHD are the DRD4 and DAT1-genes. However, individual risk genes have only explained up to 1% of the variance in the phenotype, suggesting that they represent only relatively small risk factors for ADHD. As such, the role of environmental factors, gene-gene and gene-environment interactions are being investigated. However, studies have not always been able to address the neurobiological mechanisms by which environmental factors and interactions with genes exert their effect on the ADHD-phenotype. Neuroimaging is being used as a tool to investigate the neurobiological effects of individual risk genes. We suggest it could also be applied to investigate the mechanisms involved in environmental effects and interactions between genetic and environmental factors.
Emotions can be powerful drivers of behavior that may be adaptive or maladaptive for the individual. Thus, the ability to alter one's emotions, to regulate them, should be beneficial to an individual's success of survival and fitness. What is the biological basis of this ability? And what are the biological mechanisms that impart individual differences in the ability to regulate emotion? In this article, we will first introduce readers to the construct of emotion regulation, and the various strategies that individuals may utilize to regulate their emotions. We will then point to evidence that suggests genetic contributions (alongside environmental contributions) to individual differences in emotion regulation. To date, efforts to identify specific genetic mechanisms involved in emotion regulation have focused on common gene variants (i.e. variants that exist in &gt;1% of the population, referred to as polymorphisms) and their association with specific emotion regulation strategies or the neural substrate mediating these strategies. We will discuss these efforts, and conclude with a call to expand the set of experimental paradigms and putative molecular mechanisms, in order to significantly advance our understanding of the molecular mechanisms by which genes are involved in emotion regulation.
Anxiety disorders are the most common psychiatric illnesses in the United States with approximately 30% of the population experiencing anxiety-related symptoms in their lifetime [Kessler RC, Berglund P, Demler O, Jin R, Merikangas KR, Walters EE (2005) Lifetime prevalence and age-of-onset distributions of Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders-IV (DSM-IV) disorders in the National Comorbidity Survey Replication. Arch Gen Psychiatry 62:593-60]. Notably, a variety of studies have demonstrated that 30-40% of the variance contributing to these disorders is heritable. In the present review, we discuss the latest findings regarding the genetic and environmental influences on the development and symptomatology of anxiety disorders. Specific emphasis is placed on posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) due to its uniqueness as an anxiety disorder; its diagnosis is dependent on a precipitating traumatic event and its development appears to be mediated by both genetic and environmental contributions. The co-morbidity of anxiety disorders and the potential re-classification of anxiety disorders as part of DSM-V are reviewed given the potential impact on the interpretation and design of genetic investigations. Lastly, several keys to future genetic studies are highlighted. Thorough analyses of the gene by environment (GxE) interactions that govern one's vulnerability to anxiety disorder(s), the effectiveness of individual treatment strategies, and the severity of symptoms may lead to more effective prophylactic (e.g. social support) and treatment strategies.
Autism is generally accepted as the most genetic of all the developmental neuropsychiatric syndromes. However, despite more than several decades of genetic study, the etiology of autism remains unknown, largely due to the genetic and phenotypic diversity, or heterogeneity, of this disorder, and the lack of biologically based classification systems. At the same time, in the neuroimaging literature, the body of research identifying candidate neural systems underlying aspects of autistic impairment has grown considerably, fueled by the advent of technologies such as functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Yet the findings from these neuroimaging studies have not been incorporated to inform the collection of samples for genetic studies of autism, which are predominantly based on a diagnosis of the disorder. This article presents a review of the genetics of autism and describes the genetic approaches that have been applied, including the phenotypic strategies that have been used to address heterogeneity and optimize the power of these genetic studies. With the increasing recognition that there may be different &quot;autisms&quot; (Geschwind and Levitt, 2007) with unique neural mechanisms, it is argued that neural systems research, using technologies such as fMRI, currently allows for the identification of more biologically informative phenotypes for genetic studies of autism and is positioned to identify informative neuroimaging markers for &quot;neurogenetic&quot; studies of the disorder. To illustrate this, we describe several candidate neural systems for the social communication impairment seen in autism, and the characteristic behavioral and physiological manifestations associated with these that could be incorporated into phenotypic assessments.
Attention influences many aspects of cognitive development. Variations in the catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) gene, known to affect dopamine neurotransmission, have frequently been found to influence attention in adults and older children. In this paper we examined 2 year old children and found that variation in the COMT gene influenced attention in a task involving looking to a sequence of visual stimuli. Because the influence of another dopamine-related gene (DRD4) has been shown to interact with parenting quality at this age, we explored parenting in relation to variations in the COMT gene. Variations in COMT interacted with parenting quality to influence our attention measure. The Val(108/158)Met polymorphism of COMT is commonly used to determine allelic groups, but recently haplotypes of several polymorphisms within this gene have been shown to be more strongly associated with perceived pain. Since attention and pain both involve the activation of the anterior cingulate gyrus in imaging studies, we compared the Val(108/158)Met influence with the COMT haplotypes and found the latter to be more predictive of attention. Our results confirm that important aspects of cognitive development including attention depend on the interaction of genes and early environment.
The significant inter-individual variability in pain behavior and its contributing factors remains a pervasive clinical challenge and has generated intense scientific investigations in this field. Recent studies indicate that our genes considerably influence nociceptive information processes, how our nociceptive system copes with peripheral injury, and the individual response to analgesic treatments. Neuroimaging studies of pain are beginning to link such genetic influences with physiological processes in the human brain. This review presents the pioneering endeavors of the hybrid approach of neuroimaging pain genes in humans and identifies potential future directions.
Refining phenotypes for the study of neuropsychiatric disorders is of paramount importance in neuroscience. Poor phenotype definition provides the greatest obstacle for making progress in disorders like schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, Attention Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD), and autism. Using freely available informatics tools developed by the Consortium for Neuropsychiatric Phenomics (CNP), we provide a framework for defining and refining latent constructs used in neuroscience research and then apply this strategy to review known genetic contributions to memory and intelligence in healthy individuals. This approach can help us begin to build multi-level phenotype models that express the interactions between constructs necessary to understand complex neuropsychiatric diseases. These results are available online through the http://www.phenowiki.org database. Further work needs to be done in order to provide consensus-building applications for the broadly defined constructs used in neuroscience research.
Various genes are known to modulate the delicate balance of dopamine in prefrontal cortex and influence cortical information processing. Catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) on chromosome 22q11 is the most widely studied of these genes. Val158Met, a common, functional variant in the coding sequence that increases or decreases the enzymatic activity of the gene has been shown to impact the efficiency of prefrontally-mediated cognition, specifically executive functioning, working memory, fluid intelligence and attentional control. We review the rapidly evolving literature exploring the association between COMT genotype and cognitive performance, and illustrate how this polymorphism has served a pivotal role in characterizing various interacting dimensions of complexity in the relationship between genes and cognition. We review how Val158Met has been used to help develop and validate behavioral and neurophysiological phenotypes, as a critical tool in dissecting overlapping neural functional systems and exploring interactions within and between genes, and in exploring how gene effects on cognition are modulated by environmental, demographic and developmental factors. Despite the impressive range of findings, the COMT story is also a bracing reminder of how much work remains to translate this knowledge into practical clinical applications.
Dopaminergic neurotransmission is widely recognized to be critical to the neurobiology of reward, motivation and addiction. Interestingly, social interactions and related behavior also activate the same neuronal system. Consequently, genetic variations of dopamine neurotransmission are thought influence reward processing that in turn may affect distinctive social behavior and susceptibility to addiction. This review focuses on advances made to date in an effort to link genetic individual variations and reward processing as a possible basis for addictive behaviors.
The known genetic mutation causing Huntington's disease (HD) makes this disease an important model to study links between gene and brain function. An autosomal dominant family history and the availability of a sensitive and specific genetic test allow pre-clinical diagnosis many years before the onset of any typical clinical signs. This review summarizes recent magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)-based findings in HD with a focus on the requirements if imaging is to be used in treatment trials. Despite its monogenetic cause, HD presents with a range of clinical manifestations, not explained by variation in the number of CAG repeats in the affected population. Neuroimaging studies have revealed a complex pattern of structural and functional changes affecting widespread cortical and subcortical regions far beyond the confines of the striatal degeneration that characterizes this disorder. Besides striatal dysfunction, functional imaging studies have reported a variable pattern of increased and decreased activation in cortical regions in both pre-clinical and clinically manifest HD-gene mutation carriers. Beyond regional brain activation changes, evidence from functional and diffusion-weighted MRI further suggests disrupted connectivity between corticocortical and corticostriatal areas. However, substantial inconsistencies with respect to structural and functional changes have been reported in a number of studies. Possible explanations include methodological factors and differences in study samples. There may also be biological explanations but these are poorly characterized and understood at present. Additional insights into this phenotypic variability derived from study of mouse models are presented to explore this phenomenon.
Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is to a large extent influenced by genetic factors, but environmental influences are considered important as well. To distinguish between functional brain changes underlying primarily genetically and environmentally mediated ADHD, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to compare response interference in monozygotic twins highly concordant or discordant for attention problems (AP). AP scores were assessed longitudinally with the Child Behavior Check List attention problem scale (CBCL-AP). Response interference was measured during two executive function paradigms; a color-word Stroop and a flanker task. The neuroimaging results indicated that, across the entire sample, children with high CBCL-AP scores, relative to children with low CBCL-AP scores, showed decreased activation to response interference in dorsolateral prefrontal, parietal and temporal brain regions. Increased activation was noted in the premotor cortex and regions associated with visual selective attention processing, possibly reflecting compensatory mechanisms to maintain task performance. Specific comparisons of high and low scoring concordant twin pairs suggest that AP of genetic origin was characterized by decreased activation of the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex during the Stroop task and right parietal lobe during the flanker task. In contrast, comparison of twins from discordant monozygotic pairs, suggests that AP of environmental origin was characterized by decreased activation in left and right temporal lobe areas, but only during Stroop interference. The finding of distinct brain activation changes to response interference in inattention/hyperactivity of &quot;genetic&quot; versus &quot;environmental&quot; origin, indicates that genetic and environmental risk factors for attention/hyperactivity problems affect the brain in different ways.
Although Parkinson's disease (PD) has traditionally been considered to be a non-genetic disorder, recent progress in the neurogenetics of PD provided converging evidence that genetic factors play a relevant role in the etiology of PD. The strongest case for a genetic contribution to PD was made by the discovery of mutations in single genes that can cause autosomal dominant (alpha-synuclein (SNCA)) and leucine rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) gene) or recessive (Parkin, PTEN-induced putative kinase 1 (PINK1), DJ-1, and ATP13A2 gene) forms of PD. Here, we review how structural and functional neuroimaging of individuals carrying a mutation in one of the PD genes has offered a unique avenue of research into the pathogenesis of PD. In symptomatic mutation carriers (i.e. those with overt disease), brain mapping can help to link the molecular pathogenesis of PD more directly with functional and structural changes in the intact human brain. In addition, neuroimaging of presymptomatic (i.e. non-manifesting) mutation carriers has emerged as a valuable tool to identify mechanisms of adaptive motor reorganization at the preclinical stage that may prevent or delay clinical manifestation. In addition to mutations causing monogenic forms of PD, common polymorphisms in genes that influence mono-aminergic signaling or synaptic plasticity may have modifying effects on distinct aspects of PD. We also discuss how functional and structural neuroimaging can be used to better characterize these genotype-phenotype correlations.
Imaging genetics has emerged as a powerful and sensitive approach to the study of functional genetic variations and brain responses in psychiatric and neurologic disorders. Ethics issues in contemporary neuroscience as they apply separately to genetics and neuroimaging have been a growing focus for research but, to date, there has not yet been a rigorous exploration of the ethical dimensions of the territory in which they overlap. Here we propose that the ethics challenges associated with the combination of these methods call for an expanded &quot;neuro-space&quot; in which societal and ethical values are closely and explicitly integrated with the new science. We build specifically on the model delivered by Roffman et al. [Roffman JL, Weiss AP, Goff DC, Rauch SL, Weinberger DR (2006) Neuroimaging-genetic paradigms: a new approach to investigate the pathophysiology and treatment of cognitive deficits in schizophrenia. Harv Rev Psychiatry 14:78-91] for neuroimaging, and develop the argument that the ethics issues parallel the heightened discriminative and cumulative power of imaging genetics. In the new combined space, features of discriminative power concern better differentiation of disease, sometimes by ethnicity, and incidental findings. Clinical utility, prediction and intervention, and stigma and labeling reflect a common ground between discriminative and cumulative power. Privacy, autonomy, response sensitivity and attitudes, resource allocation for research and for health care, and commercialization, are features of cumulative power. Parallel to the clinical features highlighted in the Roffman et al. map, the combined space yields additional neuroethics features. These are characterized by new knowledge and new implications for health care, justice, and policy. We conclude by examining these features in the context of public health at the interface of emerging new neurotechnologies.
It is becoming increasingly clear that genetic variations account for a certain amount of variance in the acquisition and maintenance of different skills. Until now, several levels of genetic influences were examined, ranging from global heritability estimates down to the analysis of the contribution of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) and variable number tandem repeats. In humans, the corticospinal motor system is essential to the acquisition of fine manual motor skills which require a finely tuned coordination of activity in distal forelimb muscles. Here we review recent brain mapping studies that have begun to explore the influence of functional genetic variation as well as mutations on function and structure of the human corticospinal motor system, and also the clinical implications of these studies. Transcranial magnetic stimulation of the primary motor hand area revealed a modulatory role of the common val66met polymorphism in the BDNF gene on corticospinal plasticity. Diffusion-sensitive magnetic resonance imaging has been employed to pinpoint subtle structural changes in corticospinal motor projections in individuals carrying a mutation in genes associated with motor neuron degeneration. These studies underscore the potential of non-invasive brain mapping techniques to characterize the genetic influence on the human corticospinal motor system.
Individuals differ in their tendencies to seek positive decision outcomes or to avoid negative ones. At the neurobiological level, our model suggests that phasic changes in dopamine support learning to reinforce good decisions via striatal D1 receptors, and to avoid maladaptive choices via striatal D2 receptors. Accordingly, in a previous study individual differences in positive and negative learning were strongly modulated by two genetic polymorphisms factors related to striatal D1 and D2 function, respectively. Nevertheless, whereas the role for dopamine in positive learning is relatively well accepted, that in learning to avoid negative outcomes is more controversial. Here we further explore D2-receptor-related genetic contributions to probabilistic avoidance in humans, in light of recent data showing that particular DRD2 polymorphisms are associated with functional modulation of receptor expression [Zhang Y, Bertolino A, Fazio L, Blasi G, Rampino A, Romano R, Lee M-LT, Xiao T, Papp A, Wang D, Sade W (2007) Polymorphisms in human dopamine d2 receptor gene affect gene expression, splicing, and neuronal activity during working memory. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 104(51):20552-20557]. We find that a promoter polymorphism rs12364283 associated with transcription and D2 receptor density was strongly and selectively predictive of avoidance-based decisions. Two further polymorphisms (rs2283265 and rs1076560) associated with relatively reduced presynaptic relative to postsynaptic D2 receptor expression were predictive of relative impairments in negative compared to positive decisions. These previously undocumented effects of DRD2 polymorphisms were largely independent of those we reported previously for the C957T polymorphism (rs6277) associated with striatal D2 density. In contrast, effects of the commonly studied Taq1A polymorphism on reinforcement-based decisions were due to indirect association with C957T. Taken together these findings suggest multiple D2-dependent genetic mechanisms contributing to avoidance. We discuss these effects in the context of neurocomputational models of reinforcement leaning in the basal ganglia.
Research on the genetic factors conferring risk for schizophrenia has not provided definitive answers. In the present review, we will discuss potential clinical and genetic limitations intrinsic to the strategies using a diagnostic phenotype. Among clinical factors, uncertainty of the phenotype is certainly a major limitation. Genetic problems include locus heterogeneity and the complex genetic architecture of the phenotype. Given these limiting factors, we will also discuss another hypothesis-driven strategy to uncover genetic risk: the use of quantitative measures (intermediate phenotypes) within more specific neurobiological mechanisms. As a clear example of all these issues and because of the longstanding involvement in the pathophysiology of this disorder, we will review the association of the gene for dopamine D2 receptors (DRD2) with diagnosis of schizophrenia and with specific working memory behavioral and brain activity phenotypes. We conclude by suggesting that hypothesis-free and hypothesis-driven are not mutually exclusive strategies and may provide information at different levels that are both useful and equally valid about genetic risk for a complex diagnostic entity like schizophrenia and for a complex phenotype like psychosis.
Over the past few decades, behavioral, neuroimaging and molecular studies of neurogenetic conditions, such as Williams, fragile X, Turner and velocardiofacial (22q11.2 deletion) syndromes, have led to important insights regarding brain development. These investigations allow researchers to examine &quot;experiments of nature&quot; in which the deletion or alteration of one gene or a contiguous set of genes can be linked to aberrant brain structure or function. Converging evidence across multiple imaging modalities has now begun to highlight the abnormal neural circuitry characterizing many individual neurogenetic syndromes. Furthermore, there has been renewed interest in combining analyses across neurogenetic conditions in order to search for common organizing principles in development. In this review, we highlight converging evidence across syndromes from multiple neuroimaging modalities, with a particular emphasis on functional imaging. In addition, we discuss the commonalities and differences pertaining to selective deficits in visuospatial processing that occur across four neurogenetic syndromes. We suggest avenues for future exploration, with the goal of achieving a deeper understanding of the neural abnormalities in these affected populations.
Late-onset Alzheimer's disease is a common complex disorder of old age. Though these types of disorders can be highly heritable, they differ from single-gene (Mendelian) diseases in that their causes are often multifactorial with both genetic and environmental components. Genetic risk factors that have been firmly implicated in the cause are mutations in the amyloid precursor protein (APP), presenilin 1 (PSEN1) and presenilin 2 (PSEN2) genes, which are found in large multi-generational families with an autosomal dominant pattern of disease inheritance, the apolipoprotein E (APOE)epsilon4 allele and the sortilin-related receptor (SORL1) gene. Environmental factors that have been associated with late-onset Alzheimer's disease include depressive illness, various vascular risk factors, level of education, head trauma and estrogen replacement therapy. This complexity may help explain their high prevalence from an evolutionary perspective, but the etiologic complexity makes identification of disease-related genes much more difficult. The &quot;endophenotype&quot; approach is an alternative method for measuring phenotypic variation that may facilitate the identification of susceptibility genes for complexly inherited traits. The usefulness of endophenotypes in genetic analyses of normal brain morphology and, in particular for Alzheimer's disease will be reviewed as will the implications of these findings for models of disease causation. Given that the pathways from genotypes to end-stage phenotypes are circuitous at best, identifying endophenotypes more proximal to the effects of genetic variation may expedite the attempts to link genetic variants to disorders.
Bipolar disorder is a mood disorder characterized by impairing episodes of mania and depression. Twin studies have established that bipolar disorder is among the most heritable of medical disorders and efforts to identify specific susceptibility genes have intensified over the past two decades. The search for genes influencing bipolar disorder has been complicated by a paucity of animal models, limited understanding of pathogenesis, and the genetic and phenotypic complexity of the syndrome. Linkage studies have implicated several chromosomal regions as harboring relevant genes, but results have been inconsistent. It is now widely accepted that the genetic liability to bipolar disorder reflects the action of many genes of individually small effect, a scenario for which linkage studies are poorly suited. Thus, association studies, which are more powerful for the detection of modest effect loci, have become the focus of gene-finding research. A large number of candidate genes, including biological candidates derived from hypotheses about the pathogenesis of the disorder and positional candidates derived from linkage and cytogenetic studies, have been evaluated. Several of these genes have been associated with the disorder in independent studies (including BDNF, DAOA, DISC1, GRIK4, SLC6A4, and TPH2), but none has been established. The clinical heterogeneity of bipolar disorder and its phenotypic and genetic overlap with other disorders (especially schizophrenia, schizoaffective disorder, and major depressive disorder) have raised questions about the optimal phenotype definition for genetic studies. Nevertheless, genomewide association analysis, which has successfully identified susceptibility genes for a variety of complex disorders, has begun to implicate specific genes for bipolar disorder (DGKH, CACNA1C, ANK3). The polygenicity of the disorder means that very large samples will be needed to detect the modest effect loci that likely contribute to bipolar disorder. Detailed genetic dissection of the disorder may provide novel targets (both pharmacologic and psychosocial) for intervention.
There has been a dramatic rise in gene x environment studies of human behavior over the past decade that have moved the field beyond simple nature versus nurture debates. These studies offer promise in accounting for more variability in behavioral and biological phenotypes than studies that focus on genetic or experiential factors alone. They also provide clues into mechanisms of modifying genetic risk or resilience in neurodevelopmental disorders. Yet, it is rare that these studies consider how these interactions change over the course of development. In this paper, we describe research that focuses on the impact of a polymorphism in a brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) gene, known to be involved in learning and development. Specifically we present findings that assess the effects of genotypic and environmental loadings on neuroanatomic and behavioral phenotypes across development. The findings illustrate the use of a genetic mouse model that mimics the human polymorphism, to constrain the interpretation of gene-environment interactions across development in humans.
Imaging techniques are a potentially powerful method of identifying phenotypes that are associated with, or are indicative of, a vulnerability to developing major depressive disorder (MDD). Here we identify seven promising MDD-associated traits identified by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or positron emission tomography (PET). We evaluate whether these traits are state-independent, heritable endophenotypes, or state-dependent phenotypes that may be useful markers of treatment efficacy. In MDD, increased activity of the amygdala in response to negative stimuli appears to be a mood-congruent phenomenon, and is likely moderated by the 5-HT transporter gene (SLC6A4) promoter polymorphism (5-HTTLPR). Hippocampal volume loss is characteristic of elderly or chronically-ill samples and may be impacted by the val66met brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) gene variant and the 5-HTTLPR SLC6A4 polymorphism. White matter pathology is salient in elderly MDD cohorts but is associated with cerebrovascular disease, and is unlikely to be a useful marker of a latent MDD diathesis. Increased blood flow or metabolism of the subgenual anterior cingulate cortex (sgACC), together with gray matter volume loss in this region, is a well-replicated finding in MDD. An attenuation of the usual pattern of fronto-limbic connectivity, particularly a decreased temporal correlation in amygdala-anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) activity, is another MDD-associated trait. Concerning neuroreceptor PET imaging, decreased 5-HT(1A) binding potential in the raphe, medial temporal lobe, and medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) has been strongly associated with MDD, and may be impacted by a functional single nucleotide polymorphism in the promoter region of the 5-HT(1A) gene (HTR1A: -1019 C/G; rs6295). Potentially indicative of inter-study variation in MDD etiology or mood state, both increased and decreased binding potential of the 5-HT transporter has been reported. Challenges facing the field include the problem of phenotypic and etiological heterogeneity, technological limitations, the confounding effects of medication, and non-disease related inter-individual variation in brain morphology and function. Further advances are likely as epigenetic, copy-number variant, gene-gene interaction, and genome-wide association (GWA) approaches are brought to bear on imaging data.
Phenomics is an emerging transdiscipline dedicated to the systematic study of phenotypes on a genome-wide scale. New methods for high-throughput genotyping have changed the priority for biomedical research to phenotyping, but the human phenome is vast and its dimensionality remains unknown. Phenomics research strategies capable of linking genetic variation to public health concerns need to prioritize development of mechanistic frameworks that relate neural systems functioning to human behavior. New approaches to phenotype definition will benefit from crossing neuropsychiatric syndromal boundaries, and defining phenotypic features across multiple levels of expression from proteome to syndrome. The demand for high throughput phenotyping may stimulate a migration from conventional laboratory to web-based assessment of behavior, and this offers the promise of dynamic phenotyping-the iterative refinement of phenotype assays based on prior genotype-phenotype associations. Phenotypes that can be studied across species may provide greatest traction, particularly given rapid development in transgenic modeling. Phenomics research demands vertically integrated research teams, novel analytic strategies and informatics infrastructure to help manage complexity. The Consortium for Neuropsychiatric Phenomics at UCLA has been supported by the National Institutes of Health Roadmap Initiative to illustrate these principles, and is developing applications that may help investigators assemble, visualize, and ultimately test multi-level phenomics hypotheses. As the transdiscipline of phenomics matures, and work is extended to large-scale international collaborations, there is promise that systematic new knowledge bases will help fulfill the promise of personalized medicine and the rational diagnosis and treatment of neuropsychiatric syndromes.
It is well known that children show gradual and protracted improvement in an array of behaviors involved in the conscious control of thought and emotion. Non-invasive neuroimaging in developing populations has revealed many neural correlates of behavior, particularly in the developing cingulate cortex and frontostriatal circuits. These brain regions, themselves, undergo protracted molecular and cellular change in the first two decades of human development and, as such, are ideal regions of interest for cognitive- and imaging-genetic studies that seek to link processes at the biochemical and synaptic levels to brain activity and behavior. We review our research to date that employs both adult and child-friendly versions of the attention network task (ANT) in an effort to begin to describe the role of specific genes in the assembly of a functional attention system. Presently, we constrain our predictions for genetic association studies by focusing on the role of the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) and of dopamine in the development of executive attention.
Primary torsion dystonia (PTD) is a chronic movement disorder manifested clinically by focal or generalized sustained muscle contractions, postures, and/or involuntary movements. The most common inherited form of PTD is associated with the DYT1 mutation on chromosome 9q34. A less frequent form is linked to the DYT6 locus on chromosome 8q21-22. Both forms are autosomal dominant with incomplete (approximately 30%) clinical penetrance. Extensive functional and microstructural imaging with positron emission tomography (PET) and diffusion tensor MRI (DTI) has been performed on manifesting and non-manifesting carriers of these mutations. The results are consistent with the view of PTD as a neurodevelopmental circuit disorder involving cortico-striatal-pallido-thalamocortical (CSPTC) and related cerebellar-thalamo-cortical pathways. Studies of resting regional metabolism have revealed consistent abnormalities in PTD involving multiple interconnected elements of these circuits. In gene carriers, changes in specific subsets of these regions have been found to relate to genotype, phenotype, or both. For instance, genotypic abnormalities in striatal metabolic activity parallel previously reported reductions in local D(2) receptor availability. Likewise, we have identified a unique penetrance-related metabolic network characterized by increases in the pre-supplementary motor area (SMA) and parietal association areas, associated with relative reductions in the cerebellum, brainstem, and ventral thalamus. Interestingly, metabolic activity in the hypermetabolic areas has recently been found to be modified by the penetrance regulating D216H polymorphism. The DTI data raise the possibility that metabolic abnormalities in mutation carriers reflect adaptive responses to developmental abnormalities in the intrinsic connectivity of the motor pathways. Moreover, findings of increased motor activation responses in these subjects are compatible with the reductions in cortical inhibition that have been observed in this disorder. Future research will focus on clarifying the relationship of these changes to clinical penetrance in dystonia mutation carriers, and the reversibility of disease-related functional abnormalities by treatment.

Fast synaptic inhibition in the brain is largely mediated by gamma-aminobutyric acid receptors (GABA(A)R). While the pharmacological manipulation of GABA(A)R function by therapeutic agents, such as benzodiazepines can have profound effects on neuronal excitation and behavior, the endogenous mechanisms neurons use to regulate the efficacy of synaptic inhibition and their impact on behavior remains poorly understood. To address this issue, we created a knock-in mouse in which tyrosine phosphorylation of the GABA(A)Rs gamma2 subunit, a posttranslational modification that is critical for their functional modulation, has been ablated. These animals exhibited enhanced GABA(A)R accumulation at postsynaptic inhibitory synaptic specializations on pyramidal neurons within the CA3 subdomain of the hippocampus, primarily due to aberrant trafficking within the endocytic pathway. This enhanced inhibition correlated with a specific deficit in spatial object recognition, a behavioral paradigm dependent upon CA3. Thus, phospho-dependent regulation of GABA(A)R function involving just two tyrosine residues in the gamma2 subunit provides an input-specific mechanism that not only regulates the efficacy of synaptic inhibition, but has behavioral consequences.
AMPA receptor (AMPAR) channel properties and function are regulated by its subunit composition and phosphorylation. Certain types of neural activity can recruit Ca(2+)-permeable (CP) AMPARs, such as GluR1 homomers, to synapses likely via lateral diffusion from extrasynaptic sites. Here we show that GluR1-S845 phosphorylation can alter the subunit composition of perisynaptic AMPARs by providing stability to GluR1 homomers. Using mice specifically lacking phosphorylation of the GluR1-S845 site (GluR1-S845A mutants), we demonstrate that this site is necessary for maintaining CP-AMPARs. Specifically, in the GluR1-S845A mutants, CP-AMPARs were absent from perisynaptic locations mainly due to lysosomal degradation. This regulation was mimicked by acute desphosphorylation of the GluR1-S845 site in wild-type mice by NMDA application. Furthermore, long-term depression (LTD) was associated with a reduction in perisynaptic CP-AMPAR levels. Our findings suggest that GluR1-S845 is necessary for maintaining CP-AMPARs on the surface, especially at perisynaptic sites, and suggest that the regulation of these receptors is involved in synaptic plasticity.
It is widely believed that a descending serial circuit consisting of neural projections from the basolateral complex (BLA) to the central nucleus (CEA) of the amygdala mediates fear expression. Here we directly test this hypothesis and show that disconnecting the BLA and CEA with asymmetric neurotoxic lesions after Pavlovian fear conditioning in rats completely abolishes the expression of conditional freezing. These results demonstrate that neural projections from the BLA to CEA are essential for the expression of learned fear responses.

There are several molecular entities common to the immune and nervous systems. Salient among them are the chemokines and their receptors, which play remarkably varied and potent roles in immunobiology and neurobiology. This review limns several illustrative examples and presents general principles of chemokine action that are manifest in both systems. These include the following: (1) chemokines tend equally to arrest cells and to make them move, in the process of positioning target cells with spatiotemporal precision; (2) signaling and nonsignaling receptors collaborate to adjust the chemokine environment for maximal efficacy; and (3) expression of a single chemokine receptor on circulating blood cells and parenchymal cells is often used to coordinate complex tissue responses. The challenge is to integrate knowledge of the roles of key receptors (as well as their ligands) into a coherent account of events during pathologic processes, in order to guide therapeutic development.
Gamma-aminobutyric acid type A receptors (GABA(A)Rs) are the major sites of fast inhibitory neurotransmission in the brain, and the numbers of these receptors at the cell surface can determine the strength of GABAergic neurotransmission. Chronic changes in neuronal activity lead to an adaptive modulation in the efficacy of GABAergic synaptic inhibition, brought about in part by changes in the number of synaptic GABA(A)Rs, a mechanism known as homeostatic synaptic plasticity. Reduction in the number of GABA(A)Rs in response to prolonged neuronal activity blockade is dependent on the ubiquitin-proteasome system. The underlying biochemical pathways linking chronic activity blockade to proteasome-dependent degradation of GABA(A)Rs are unknown. Here, we show that chronic blockade of L-type voltage-gated calcium channels (VGCCs) with nifedipine decreases the number of GABA(A)Rs at synaptic sites but not the overall number of inhibitory synapses. In parallel, blockade of L-type VGCCs decreases the amplitude but not the frequency of miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents or expression of the glutamic acid decarboxylase GAD65. We further reveal that the activation of L-type VGCCs regulates the turnover of newly translated GABA(A)R subunits in a mechanism dependent upon the activity of the proteasome and thus regulates GABA(A)R insertion into the plasma membrane. Together, these observations suggest that activation of L-type VGCCs can regulate the abundance of synaptic GABA(A)Rs and the efficacy of synaptic inhibition, revealing a potential mechanism underlying the homeostatic adaptation of fast GABAergic inhibition to prolonged changes in activity.
Mutations in polycystin-1 (PC1) can cause autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease, which is a leading cause of renal failure. The available evidence suggests that PC1 acts as a mechanosensor, receiving signals from the primary cilia, neighboring cells, and extracellular matrix. PC1 is a large membrane protein that has a long N-terminal extracellular region (about 3000 amino acids) with a multimodular structure including 16 Ig-like polycystic kidney disease (PKD) domains, which are targeted by many naturally occurring missense mutations. Nothing is known about the effects of these mutations on the biophysical properties of PKD domains. Here we investigate the effects of several naturally occurring mutations on the mechanical stability of the first PKD domain of human PC1 (HuPKDd1). We found that several missense mutations alter the mechanical unfolding pathways of HuPKDd1, resulting in distinct mechanical phenotypes. Moreover, we found that these mutations also alter the thermodynamic stability of a structurally homologous archaeal PKD domain. Based on these findings, we hypothesize that missense mutations may cause autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease by altering the stability of the PC1 ectodomain, thereby perturbing its ability to sense mechanical signals.
An important issue to understand is how visual information can influence the motor system and affect behavior. Using the lamprey (Petromyzon marinus) as an experimental model we examined the morphological subtypes of retinal ganglion cells and their projection pattern to the tectum, which controls eye, head, and body movements, and to the pretectum, which mediates both visual escape responses and the dorsal light response. We identified six distinct morphological types of retinal ganglion cell. Four of these distribute their dendrites in the inner plexiform layer (image forming layer) and project in a retinotopic manner to all areas of the tectum. The posterior part of the retina has the highest density of ganglion cells and projects to the rostral part of the tectum, in which the visual field in front of the lamprey will be represented. From this area both orienting and evasive behaviors can be elicited. In contrast, pretectum receives input from two ganglion cells types that send their dendrites only to the outer plexiform layer or the outer limiting membrane and therefore may directly contact photoreceptors, and transmit information without additional delay to pretectum, which may be particularly important for visual escape responses. One of these two types, the bipolar ganglion cell, is only found in a small patch of retina just ventral of the optic nerve. Due to its distribution, morphology, and projections we suggest that this cell may control the dorsal light response.
The protein interacting with C kinase 1 (PICK1) protein was first identified as a novel binding partner for protein kinase C. PICK1 contains a membrane-binding BAR domain and a PDZ domain interacting with many synaptic proteins, including the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid (AMPA) receptor subunit GluR2 and the dopamine transporter. PICK1 is strongly implicated in GluR2 trafficking and synaptic plasticity. In mammals, PICK1 has been characterized extensively in cell culture studies. To study PICK1 in an intact system, we characterized PICK1 expression immunohistochemically in the adult and larval Drosophila central nervous system. PICK1 was found in cell bodies in the subesophageal ganglion, the antennal lobe, the protocerebrum, and the neuroendocrine center pars intercerebralis. The cell types that express PICK1 were identified using GAL4 enhancer trap lines. The PICK1-expressing cells form a subpopulation of neurons. PICK1 immunoreactivity was neither detected in glutamatergic nor in dopaminergic neurons. Also, we observed PICK1 expression in only a few GABAergic neurons, located in the antennal lobe. In contrast, we detected robust PICK1 immunolabeling of peptidergic neurons in the neuroendocrine system, which express the transcription factor DIMM and the amidating enzyme peptidylglycine-alpha-hydroxylating monooxygenase (PHM). The PICK1-positive cells include neurosecretory cells that produce the insulin-like peptide dILP2. PICK1 expression in insulin-producing cells also occurs in mammals, as it was also observed in a rat insulinoma cell line derived from pancreatic beta-cells. At the subcellular level, PICK1 was found in the perinuclear zone but surprisingly not in synaptic domains. We conclude that PICK1 may serve an important role in the neuroendocrine system both in insects and vertebrates.
This article has been withdrawn at the request of the author(s) and/or editor. The Publisher apologizes for any inconvenience this may cause. The full Elsevier Policy on Article Withdrawal can be found at (http://www.elsevier.com/locate/withdrawalpolicy.

Duchenne myopathy is a lethal disease due to the absence of dystrophin, a cytoskeletal protein. Muscles from dystrophin-deficient mice (mdx) typically present an exaggerated susceptibility to eccentric work characterized by an important force drop and an increased membrane permeability consecutive to repeated lengthening contractions. The present study shows that mdx muscles are largely protected from eccentric work-induced damage by overexpressing a dominant negative mutant of TRPV2 ion channel. This observation points out the role of TRPV2 channel in the physiopathology of Duchenne muscular dystrophy.
Peripheral vision provides a less faithful representation of the visual input than foveal vision. Nonetheless, we can gain a lot of information about the world from our peripheral vision, for example in order to plan eye movements. The phenomenon of crowding shows that the reduction of information available in the periphery is not merely the result of reduced resolution. Crowding refers to visual phenomena in which identification of a target stimulus is significantly impaired by the presence of nearby stimuli, or flankers. What information is available in the periphery? We propose that the visual system locally represents peripheral stimuli by the joint statistics of responses of cells sensitive to different position, phase, orientation, and scale. This &quot;textural&quot; representation by summary statistics predicts the subjective &quot;jumble&quot; of features often associated with crowding. We show that the difficulty of performing an identification task within a single pooling region using this representation of the stimuli is correlated with peripheral identification performance under conditions of crowding. Furthermore, for a simple stimulus with no flankers, this representation can be adequate to specify the stimulus with some position invariance. This provides evidence that a unified neuronal mechanism may underlie peripheral vision, ordinary pattern recognition in central vision, and texture perception. A key component of our methodology involves creating visualizations of the information available in the summary statistics of a stimulus. We call these visualizations &quot;mongrels&quot; and show that they are highly useful in examining how the early visual system represents the visual input. Mongrels enable one to study the &quot;equivalence classes&quot; of our model, i.e., the sets of stimuli that map to the same representation according to the model.
Gamma oscillations are thought to transiently link distributed cell assemblies that are processing related information, a function that is probably important for network processes such as perception, attentional selection and memory. This 'binding' mechanism requires that spatially distributed cells fire together with millisecond range precision; however, it is not clear how such coordinated timing is achieved given that the frequency of gamma oscillations varies substantially across space and time, from approximately 25 to almost 150 Hz. Here we show that gamma oscillations in the CA1 area of the hippocampus split into distinct fast and slow frequency components that differentially couple CA1 to inputs from the medial entorhinal cortex, an area that provides information about the animal's current position, and CA3, a hippocampal subfield essential for storage of such information. Fast gamma oscillations in CA1 were synchronized with fast gamma in medial entorhinal cortex, and slow gamma oscillations in CA1 were coherent with slow gamma in CA3. Significant proportions of cells in medial entorhinal cortex and CA3 were phase-locked to fast and slow CA1 gamma waves, respectively. The two types of gamma occurred at different phases of the CA1 theta rhythm and mostly on different theta cycles. These results point to routeing of information as a possible function of gamma frequency variations in the brain and provide a mechanism for temporal segregation of potentially interfering information from different sources.
Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase-1-dependent cell death (known as parthanatos) plays a pivotal role in many clinically important events including ischaemia/reperfusion injury and glutamate excitotoxicity. A recent study by us has shown that uncleaved AIF (apoptosis-inducing factor), but not calpain-hydrolysed truncated-AIF, was rapidly released from the mitochondria during parthanatos, implicating a second pool of AIF that might be present in brain mitochondria contributing to the rapid release. In the present study, a novel AIF pool is revealed in brain mitochondria by multiple biochemical analyses. Approx. 30% of AIF loosely associates with the outer mitochondrial membrane on the cytosolic side, in addition to its main localization in the mitochondrial intermembrane space attached to the inner membrane. Immunogold electron microscopic analysis of mouse brain further supports AIF association with the outer, as well as the inner, mitochondrial membrane in vivo. In line with these observations, approx. 20% of uncleaved AIF rapidly translocates to the nucleus and functionally causes neuronal death upon NMDA (N-methyl-d-aspartate) treatment. In the present study we show for the first time a second pool of AIF in brain mitochondria and demonstrate that this pool does not require cleavage and that it contributes to the rapid release of AIF. Moreover, these results suggest that this outer mitochondrial pool of AIF is sufficient to cause cell death during parthanatos. Interfering with the release of this outer mitochondrial pool of AIF during cell injury paradigms that use parthanatos hold particular promise for novel therapies to treat neurological disorders.

Although drugs used to treat several neurological diseases are presumed to target synapses that secrete dopamine (DA), relatively little is known about synaptic vesicle (SV) release mechanisms at single DA synapses. We found that the relative probability of release (Pr) varied between individual DA synapses. Furthermore, DA terminals generally exhibited lower Pr than glutamatergic hippocampal (Hpc) terminals, suggesting that DA release is less reliable than the release of glutamate. Our mathematical model of fluorescence loss shows that Pr is regulated by two independent and heterogeneous elements. First, the size of the recycling SV pool regulates Pr. Second, Pr is also independently regulated by additional factors, which are reflected in the time constant of FM 1-43 destaining, tau. We found that the observed difference in Pr between Hpc and DA neurons results because the recycling SV pool is smaller in DA neurons than in Hpc neurons. However, tau does not vary between these two neuron populations. We also identified a population of functional nonsynaptic boutons in DA axons, which are not associated with a postsynaptic element and which are not functionally different from boutons that formed conventional synapses. Our work provides a new approach to the study of SV exocytosis in DA neurons and shows that synaptic terminals of DA neurons are functionally heterogeneous and differ from excitatory terminals in terms of Pr.
Destruction or changes associated with myelin membranes in the CNS play a key role in the pathogenesis of multiple sclerosis and other related neurodegenerative disorders. A long-standing goal has been to detect and quantify myelin content in vivo. For this reason, we have developed a myelin-imaging technique based on positron emission tomography (PET). PET is a quantitative imaging modality that has been widely used in clinical settings for direct assessment of biological processes at the molecular level. However, lack of myelin-imaging probes has hampered the use of PET for imaging of myelination in the CNS. Here, we report a myelin-imaging agent, termed Case Imaging Compound (CIC) that readily penetrates the blood-brain barrier and preferentially localizes to myelinated regions of the brain. After radiolabeling with positron-emitting carbon-11, [(11)C]CIC-PET was conducted in longitudinal studies using a lysolethicin-induced rat model of focal demyelination and subsequent remyelination. Quantitative analysis showed that the retention of [(11)C]CIC correlates with the level of demyelination/remyelination. These studies indicate that, for the first time, [(11)C]CIC-PET can be used as an imaging marker of myelination, which has the potential to be translated into clinical studies in multiple sclerosis and other myelin-related diseases for early diagnosis, subtyping, and efficacy evaluation of therapeutic treatments aimed at myelin repair.
Transcriptional upregulation of Kcc2b, the gene variant encoding the major isoform of the KCC2 chloride transporter, underlies a rapid perinatal decrease in intraneuronal chloride concentration (chloride shift), which is necessary for GABA to act inhibitory. Here we identify a novel repressor element-1 (RE-1) site in the 5' regulatory region of Kcc2b. In primary cortical neurons, which recapitulate the chloride shift in culture, the novel upstream RE-1 together with a known intronic RE-1 site function in concerted interaction to suppress Kcc2b transcription. With critical relevance for the chloride shift, only in the presence of the dual RE-1 site could inhibition of REST upregulate Kcc2b transcription. For this, we confirmed increased KCC2 protein expression and decreased intraneuronal chloride. Kcc2b developmental upregulation was potentiated by BDNF application, which was fully dependent on the presence of dual RE-1. In addition, the developmental chloride shift and GABA switch, from excitatory to inhibitory action, was accelerated by REST inhibition and slowed by REST overexpression. These results identify the REST-dual RE-1 interaction as a novel mechanism of transcriptional Kcc2b upregulation that significantly contributes to the ontogenetic shift in chloride concentration and GABA action in cortical neurons, which is fundamental for brain function in health and disease. Thus, we present here a new logic for the perinatal chloride shift, which is critical for establishment of GABAergic cortical inhibitory neurotransmission.
Mutations in the SPTLC1 subunit of serine palmitoyltransferase (SPT) cause an adult-onset, hereditary sensory, and autonomic neuropathy type I (HSAN1). We previously reported that mice bearing a transgene-expressing mutant SPTLC1 (tgSPTLC1(C133W)) show a reduction in SPT activity and hyperpathia at 10 months of age. Now analyzed at a later age, we find these mice develop sensory loss with a distal small fiber neuropathy and peripheral myelinopathy. This phenotype is largely reversed when these mice are crossed with transgenic mice overexpressing wild-type SPTLC1 showing that the mutant SPTLC1 protein is not inherently toxic. Simple loss of SPT activity also cannot account for the HSAN1 phenotype, since heterozygous SPTLC1 knock-out mice have reduced SPT activity but are otherwise normal. Rather, the presence of two newly identified, potentially deleterious deoxysphingoid bases in the tgSPTLC1(C133W), but not in the wild-type, double-transgenic tgSPTLC1(WT + C133W) or SPTLC1(+/-) mice, suggests that the HSAN1 mutations alter amino acid selectivity of the SPT enzyme such that palmitate is condensed with alanine and glycine, in addition to serine. This observation is consistent with the hypothesis that HSAN1 is the result of a gain-of-function mutation in SPTLC1 that leads to accumulation of a toxic metabolite.
Professional musicians are an excellent model of long-term motor learning effects on structure and function of the sensorimotor system. However, intensive motor skill training has been associated with task-specific deficiency in hand motor control, which has a higher prevalence among musicians (musician's dystonia) than in the general population. Using a transcranial magnetic stimulation paradigm, we previously found an expanded spatial integration of proprioceptive input into the hand motor cortex [sensorimotor organization (SMO)] in healthy musicians. In musician's dystonia, however, this expansion was even larger. Whereas motor skills of musicians are likely to be supported by a spatially expanded SMO, we hypothesized that in musician's dystonia this might have developed too far and now disrupts rather than assists task-specific motor control. If so, motor control should be regained by reversing the excessive reorganization in musician's dystonia. Here, we test this hypothesis and show that a 15 min intervention with proprioceptive input (proprioceptive training) restored SMO in pianists with musician's dystonia to the pattern seen in healthy pianists. Crucially, task-specific motor control improved significantly and objectively as measured with a MIDI (musical instrument digital interface) piano, and the amount of behavioral improvement was significantly correlated to the degree of sensorimotor reorganization. In healthy pianists and nonmusicians, the SMO and motor performance remained essentially unchanged. These findings suggest that the differentiation of SMO in the hand motor cortex and the degree of motor control of intensively practiced tasks are significantly linked and finely balanced. Proprioceptive training restored this balance in musician's dystonia to the behaviorally beneficial level of healthy musicians.
The frontal operculum-classically considered to be Broca's area-has special significance and interest in clinical, cognitive, and comparative neuroscience given its role in spoken language and the long-held assumption that structural asymmetry of this region of cortex may be related to functional lateralization of human language. We performed a detailed morphological and morphometric analysis of this area of the brain in humans and chimpanzees using identical image acquisition parameters, image analysis techniques, and consistent anatomical boundaries in both species. We report great inter-individual variability of the sulcal contours defining the operculum in both species, particularly discontinuity of the inferior frontal sulcus in humans and bifurcation of the inferior precentral sulcus in chimpanzees. There was no evidence of population-based asymmetry of the frontal opercular gray matter in humans or chimpanzees. The diagonal sulcus was only identified in humans, and its presence was significantly (F = 12.782, p &lt; 0.001) associated with total volume of the ipsilateral operculum. The findings presented here suggest that there is no population-based interhemispheric macroscopic asymmetry of Broca's area in humans or Broca's area homolog in chimpanzees. However, given that previous studies have reported asymmetry in the cytoarchitectonic fields considered to represent Broca's area-which is important given that cytoarchitectonic boundaries are more closely related to the regional functional properties of cortex relative to sulcal landmarks-it may be that the gross morphology of the frontal operculum is not a reliable indicator of Broca's area per se.
Irregular ongoing activity in cortical networks is often modeled as arising from recurrent connectivity. Yet it remains unclear to what extent its presence corrupts sensory signal transmission and network computational capabilities. In a recurrent cortical-like network, we have determined the activity patterns that are better transmitted and self-sustained by the network. We show that reproducible spiking and subthreshold dynamics can be triggered if the statistics of the imposed external drive are consistent with patterns previously seen in the ongoing activity. A subset of neurons in the network, constrained to replay temporal pattern segments extracted from the recorded ongoing activity of the same network, reliably drives the remaining, free-running neurons to call the rest of the pattern. Comparison with surrogate Poisson patterns indicates that the efficiency of the recall and completion process depends on the similarity between the statistical properties of the input with previous ongoing activity The reliability of evoked dynamics in recurrent networks is thus dependent on the stimulus used, and we propose that the similarity between spontaneous and evoked activity in sensory cortical areas could be a signature of efficient transmission and propagation across cortical networks.
During corticogenesis, the balance between the self-renewal of radial glial stem cells and the production of their descendent progenitor cells is essential in generating the correct size and cell composition of the neocortex. How the stem-to-progenitor cell transition is regulated is poorly understood. FGFs are commonly implicated in promoting proliferation of neural precursor cells, but it is unclear how they exert their effects on stem cells, progenitor cells, or both in vivo. Here, three FGF receptor genes are simultaneously deleted during cortical neurogenesis. In these mutants, radial glia are depleted due to an increased transition from an uncommitted state to a more differentiated one, initially causing an increase in progenitors, but ultimately resulting in a smaller cortex. The proliferation rate of progenitors themselves, however, is unchanged. These results indicate that FGFs normally repress the radial glia to progenitor cell transition during corticogenesis.
It is well known that the density of neurons varies within the adult brain. In neocortex, this includes variations in neuronal density between different lamina as well as between different regions. Yet the concomitant variation of the microvessels is largely uncharted. Here, we present automated histological, imaging, and analysis tools to simultaneously map the locations of all neuronal and non-neuronal nuclei and the centerlines and diameters of all blood vessels within thick slabs of neocortex from mice. Based on total inventory measurements of different cortical regions ( approximately 10(7) cells vectorized across brains), these methods revealed: (1) In three dimensions, the mean distance of the center of neuronal somata to the closest microvessel was 15 mum. (2) Volume samples within lamina of a given region show that the density of microvessels does not match the strong laminar variation in neuronal density. This holds for both agranular and granular cortex. (3) Volume samples in successive radii from the midline to the ventral-lateral edge, where each volume summed the number of cells and microvessels from the pia to the white matter, show a significant correlation between neuronal and microvessel densities. These data show that while neuronal and vascular densities do not track each other on the 100 mum scale of cortical lamina, they do track each other on the 1-10 mm scale of the cortical mantle. The absence of a disproportionate density of blood vessels in granular lamina is argued to be consistent with the initial locus of functional brain imaging signals.
The current consensus model in mammalian olfaction is that the detection of millions of odorants requires a large number of odorant receptors (ORs) and that each OR interacts selectively with a small subset of odorants, which are typically related in structure. Here, we report the odorant response properties of an OR that deviates from this model: SR1, a mouse OR that is abundantly expressed in sensory neurons of the septal organ and also of the main olfactory epithelium. Patch-clamp recordings reveal that olfactory sensory neurons (OSNs) that express SR1 respond to many, structurally unrelated odorants, and over a wide concentration range. Most OSNs expressing a gene-targeted SR1 locus that lacks the SR1 coding sequence do not show this broad responsiveness. Gene transfer in the heterologous expression system Hana3A confirms the broad response profile of SR1. There may be other mouse ORs with such broad response profiles.
The basal ganglia are a collection of brain regions involved with motor planning and initiation. The major site of cortical and thalamic input into the basal ganglia network is the striatum, which includes a differentiated caudate nucleus (CN) and the putamen in rabbits. Trace eyeblink conditioning (EBC) is a forebrain-dependent associative learning task in which a stimulus-free time interval separates the presentation of a behaviorally neutral conditioned stimulus (CS) and a behaviorally salient unconditioned stimulus. We investigated whether the CN is essential for acquisition of trace EBC and whether learning-related changes in neuronal activity occur in the caudate nucleus during trace EBC. Bilateral lesions of the CN in rabbits prevent acquisition of trace EBC. In separate cohorts of rabbits, single-unit recordings showed that medium spiny neurons from regions shown to be critical by lesions display strong responses to the CS, especially in the initial days of training before acquisition. Cholinergic interneurons, or tonically active neurons, become responsive to the CS and show dramatic firing rate changes during the trace interval after learning criterion has been met. These data demonstrate that the CN is required for and involved in trace EBC.
Synaptic input to a neuron may undergo various filtering steps, both locally and during transmission to the soma. Using simultaneous whole-cell recordings from soma and apical dendrites from rat CA1 hippocampal pyramidal cells, and biophysically detailed modeling, we found two complementary resonance (bandpass) filters of subthreshold voltage signals. Both filters favor signals in the theta (3-12 Hz) frequency range, but have opposite location, direction, and voltage dependencies: (1) dendritic H-resonance, caused by h/HCN-channels, filters signals propagating from soma to dendrite when the membrane potential is close to rest; and (2) somatic M-resonance, caused by M/Kv7/KCNQ and persistent Na(+) (NaP) channels, filters signals propagating from dendrite to soma when the membrane potential approaches spike threshold. Hippocampal pyramidal cells participate in theta network oscillations during behavior, and we suggest that that these dual, polarized theta resonance mechanisms may convey voltage-dependent tuning of theta-mediated neural coding in the entorhinal/hippocampal system during locomotion, spatial navigation, memory, and sleep.
Human neuroimaging studies have demonstrated the presence of a &quot;default system&quot; in the brain, which shows a &quot;default mode of brain activity,&quot; i.e., greater activity during the resting state than during an attention-demanding cognitive task. The default system mainly involves the medial prefrontal and medial parietal areas, including the anterior and posterior cingulate cortex. It has been proposed that this default activity is concerned with internal thought processes. Recently, it has been indicated that chimpanzees show high metabolic levels in these medial brain areas during rest. Correlated low-frequency spontaneous activity as measured by functional magnetic resonance imaging was observed between the medial parietal and medial prefrontal areas in the anesthetized monkey. However, there have been few attempts to demonstrate a default system that shows task-induced deactivation in nonhuman primates. We conducted a positron emission tomography study with [(15)O]H(2)O to demonstrate a default mode of brain activity in the awake monkey sitting on a primate chair. Macaque monkeys showed higher level of regional blood flow in these medial brain areas as well as lateral and orbital prefrontal areas during rest compared with that under a working memory task, suggesting the existence of internal thought processes in the monkey. However, during rest in the monkey, the highest level of blood flow relative to that in other brain regions was observed not in the default system but in the dorsal striatum, suggesting that regions with the highest cerebral blood flow during rest may differ depending on the resting condition and/or species.
Partial peripheral nerve injury in adult rats results in neuropathic pain-like hypersensitivity, while that in neonatal rats does not, a phenomenon also observed in humans. We therefore compared gene expression profiles in the dorsal horn of adult and neonatal rats in response to the spared nerve injury (SNI) model of peripheral neuropathic pain. The 148 differentially regulated genes in adult, but not young, rat spinal cords indicate a greater microglial and T-cell response in adult than in young animals. T-cells show a large infiltration in the adult dorsal horn but not in the neonate after SNI. T-cell-deficient Rag1-null adult mice develop less neuropathic mechanical allodynia than controls, and central expression of cytokines involved in T-cell signaling exhibits large relative differences between young and adult animals after SNI. One such cytokine, interferon-gamma (IFNgamma), is upregulated in the dorsal horn after nerve injury in the adult but not neonate, and we show that IFNgamma signaling is required for full expression of adult neuropathic hypersensitivity. These data reveal that T-cell infiltration and activation in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord following peripheral nerve injury contribute to the evolution of neuropathic pain-like hypersensitivity. The neuroimmune interaction following peripheral nerve injury has therefore a substantial adaptive immune component, which is absent or suppressed in the young CNS.
The electrical and synaptic properties of neurons are essential for determining the function of the nervous system. Thus, understanding the mechanisms that control the appropriate developmental acquisition and maintenance of these properties is a critical problem in neuroscience. A great deal of our understanding of these developmental mechanisms comes from studies of soluble growth factor signaling between cells in the peripheral nervous system. The sympathetic nervous system has provided a model for studying the role of these factors both in early development and in the establishment of mature properties. In particular, neurotrophins produced by the targets of sympathetic innervation regulate the synaptic and electrophysiological properties of postnatal sympathetic neurons. In this review we examine the role of neurotrophin signaling in the regulation of synaptic strength, neurotransmitter phenotype, voltage-gated currents and repetitive firing properties of sympathetic neurons. Together, these properties determine the level of sympathetic drive to target organs such as the heart. Changes in this sympathetic drive, which may be linked to dysfunctions in neurotrophin signaling, are associated with devastating diseases such as high blood pressure, arrhythmias and heart attack. Neurotrophins appear to play similar roles in modulating the synaptic and electrical properties of other peripheral and central neuronal systems, suggesting that information provided from studies in the sympathetic nervous system will be widely applicable for understanding the neurotrophic regulation of neuronal function in other systems.
This review summarizes the current understanding of neurotransmitter phenotype specification of postganglionic sympathetic neurons, focusing, in particular, on the cellular processes of induction versus trans-differentiation. The emerging evidence is discussed that the noradrenergic and cholinergic neurotransmitter phenotypes are co-induced during early development and that the mature phenotypes develop by positive and negative selection of cellular properties in initially bimodal neurons, depending on extracellular signals during migration and after target contact.

Although androgens induce numerous actions in brain, relatively little is known about which cell signaling pathways androgens activate in neurons. Recent work in our laboratory showed that the androgens testosterone and dihydrotestosterone (DHT) activate androgen receptor (AR)-dependent mitogen-activated protein kinase/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (MAPK/ERK) signaling. Since the transcription factor cyclic AMP response element binding protein (CREB) is a downstream effector of MAPK/ERK and androgens activate CREB in non-neuronal cells, we investigated whether androgens activate CREB signaling in neurons. First, we observed that DHT rapidly activates CREB in cultured hippocampal neurons, as evidenced by CREB phosphorylation. Further, we observed that DHT-induced CREB phosphorylation is AR-dependent, as it occurs in PC12 cells stably transfected with AR but in neither wild-type nor empty vector-transfected cells. Next, we sought to identify the signal transduction pathways upstream of CREB phosphorylation using pharmacological inhibitors. DHT-induced CREB phosphorylation in neurons was found to be dependent upon protein kinase C (PKC) signaling but independent of MAPK/ERK, phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase, protein kinase A, and Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase IV. These results demonstrate that DHT induces PKC-dependent CREB signaling, which may contribute to androgen-mediated neural functions.
Alerting stimuli that cause sympathetic cutaneous vasomotor alerting responses (&quot;SCVARs&quot;) in the thermoregulatory vascular bed of the rabbit ear pinna also induce theta (5-8 Hz) rhythm in the hippocampal EEG, a marker that the animal is engaged with the environment. The present study determines the relation between SCVARs in the thermoregulatory tail artery vascular bed and hippocampal EEG theta rhythm in Sprague-Dawley rats. A Doppler ultrasonic flow probe chronically implanted around the base of the tail artery was used to measure SCVARs. Unipolar electrodes were implanted in the hippocampus (CA1 region) to measure EEG. Six standard non-noxious brief alerting stimuli were administered during continuous recording of tail blood flow and EEG. The SCVAR index was calculated as the percentage fall from pre-alerting blood flow values. After stimuli the SCVAR index for the tail artery blood flow was 84+/-2% of the pre-alerting control. In contrast, the same stimuli caused little fall in blood flow within the superior mesenteric bed (SCVAR index=18+/-2%). The proportion of theta power in the total frequency range (0-20 Hz) increased significantly after alerting stimuli (46+/-2% vs. 29+/-1% before stimuli, p&lt;0.05). Theta proportion began to increase approximately 0.5 s after the stimuli and preceded SCVARs by approximately 1 s. The SCVAR index was correlated with the magnitude of the increment in theta power. Our study demonstrates that alerting responses resulting in selective vasoconstriction of the tail vascular bed are associated with hippocampal theta rhythm in conscious rats.

Acute ischemic stroke is the third leading cause of death in industrialized countries and the most frequent cause of permanent disability in adults worldwide. Despite advances in the understanding of the pathophysiology of cerebral ischemia, therapeutic options remain limited. Only recombinant tissue-plasminogen activator (rt-PA) for thrombolysis is currently approved for use in the treatment of this devastating disease. However, its use is limited by its short therapeutic window (three hours), complications derived essentially from the risk of hemorrhage, and the potential damage from reperfusion/ischemic injury. Two important pathophysiological mechanisms involved during ischemic stroke are oxidative stress and inflammation. Brain tissue is not well equipped with antioxidant defenses, so reactive oxygen species and other free radicals/oxidants, released by inflammatory cells, threaten tissue viability in the vicinity of the ischemic core. This review will discuss the molecular aspects of oxidative stress and inflammation in ischemic stroke and potential therapeutic strategies that target neuroinflammation and the innate immune system. Currently, little is known about endogenous counterregulatory immune mechanisms. However, recent studies showing that regulatory T cells are major cerebroprotective immunomodulators after stroke suggest that targeting the endogenous adaptive immune response may offer novel promising neuroprotectant therapies.

With Manduca sexta as a model system, we analyzed how natural odor mixtures that are most effective in eliciting flight and foraging behaviors are encoded in the primary olfactory center in the brain, the antennal lobe. We used gas chromatography coupled with multiunit neural-ensemble recording to identify key odorants from flowers of two important nectar resources, the desert plants Datura wrightii and Agave palmeri, that elicited responses from individual antennal-lobe neurons. Neural-ensemble responses to the A. palmeri floral scent, comprising &gt;60 odorants, could be reproduced by stimulation with a mixture of six of its constituents that had behavioral effectiveness equivalent to that of the complete scent. Likewise, a mixture of three floral volatiles from D. wrightii elicited normal flight and feeding behaviors. By recording responses of neural ensembles to mixtures of varying behavioral effectiveness, we analyzed the coding of behaviorally &quot;meaningful&quot; odors. We considered four possible ensemble-coding mechanisms--mean firing rate, mean instantaneous firing rate, pattern of synchronous ensemble firing, and total net synchrony of firing--and found that mean firing rate and the pattern of ensemble synchrony were best correlated with behavior (R = 41% and 43%, respectively). Stepwise regression analysis showed that net synchrony and mean instantaneous firing rate contributed little to the variation in the behavioral results. We conclude that a combination of mean-rate coding and synchrony of firing of antennal-lobe neurons underlies generalization among related, behaviorally effective floral mixtures while maintaining sufficient contrast for discrimination of distinct scents.
The inflammatory response that accompanies central nervous system (CNS) injury can affect neurological outcome in both positive and negative ways. In the optic nerve, a CNS pathway that normally fails to regenerate when damaged, intraocular inflammation causes retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) to switch into an active growth state and extend lengthy axons down the nerve. The molecular basis of this phenomenon is uncertain. A prior study showed that oncomodulin (Ocm), a Ca(2+)-binding protein secreted by a macrophage cell line, is a potent axon-promoting factor for RGCs. However, it is not known whether Ocm contributes to the physiological effects of intraocular inflammation in vivo, and there are conflicting reports in the literature regarding its expression and significance. We show here that intraocular inflammation causes infiltrative cells of the innate immune system to secrete high levels of Ocm, and that agents that prevent Ocm from binding to its receptor suppress axon regeneration. These results were verified in different strains, species, and experimental models, and establish Ocm as a potent growth-promoting signal between the innate immune system and neurons in vivo.
5-Hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) is an important molecule in the brain that is implicated in mood and emotional processes. In vivo, its dynamic release and uptake kinetics are poorly understood due to a lack of analytical techniques for its rapid measurement. Whereas fast-scan cyclic voltammetry with carbon fiber microelectrodes is used frequently to monitor subsecond dopamine release in freely moving and anesthetized rats, the electrooxidation of 5-HT forms products that quickly polymerize and irreversibly coat the carbon electrode surface. Previously described modifications of the electrochemical waveform allow stable and sensitive 5-HT measurements in mammalian tissue slice preparations and in the brain of fruit fly larvae. For in vivo applications in mammals, however, the problem of electrode deterioration persists. We identify the root of this problem to be fouling by extracellular metabolites such as 5-hydoxyindole acetic acid (5-HIAA), which is present in 200-1000 times the concentration of 5-HT and displays similar electrochemical properties, including filming of the electrode surface. To impede access of the 5-HIAA to the electrode surface, a thin layer of Nafion, a cation exchange polymer, has been electrodeposited onto cylindrical carbon-fiber microelectrodes. The presence of the Nafion film was confirmed with environmental scanning electron microscopy and was demonstrated by the diminution of the voltammetric signals for 5-HIAA as well as other common anionic species. The modified microelectrodes also display increased sensitivity to 5-HT, yielding a characteristic cyclic voltammogram that is easily distinguishable from other common electroactive brain species. The thickness of the Nafion coating and a diffusion coefficient (D) in the film for 5-HT were evaluated by measuring permeation through Nafion. In vivo, we used physiological, anatomical, and pharmacological evidence to validate the signal as 5-HT. Using Nafion-modified microelectrodes, we present the first endogenous recording of 5-HT in the mammalian brain.


The process of oligodendrocyte differentiation is regulated by a dynamic interaction between a genetic and an epigenetic program. Recent studies, addressing nucleosomal histone modifications have considerably increased our knowledge regarding epigenetic regulation of gene expression during oligodendrocyte development and aging. These results have generated new hypotheses regarding the mechanisms underlying the decreased efficiency of endogenous remyelination in response to demyelinating injuries with increasing age. In this review, we present an overview of the epigenetic mechanisms regulating gene expression at specific stages of oligodendrocyte differentiation and maturation as well as the changes that occur with aging.
Specification and differentiation of neural precursors into dopaminergic neurons within the ventral mesencephalon has been subject to much attention due to the implication of dopaminergic neurons in Parkinson's disease and the perspective of generating sources of therapeutically active cells to be used for cell replacement therapy for the disease. However, despite intensive research efforts, little is known about the characteristics of the dopamine neuron progenitors in human. We show that the dopamine neuron determinant LMX1a is expressed in the diencephalic and mesencephalic dopaminergic neuron domains during human development. Within the mesencephalon, LMX1a is expressed in the dopaminergic neurons and their progenitors located in the ventricular zone of the floor plate region. Furthermore, the neural progenitors in the developing human ventral mesencephalon have a radial morphology and express the radial glial markers Vimentin and BLBP. These radial glia are mitotic and act as precursors for the dopaminergic neurons. Finally, we show that progenitors isolated from the human ventral mesencephalon maintain their radial glial characteristics and neurogenic capacity after expansion in vitro, making them a promising future source of cells to be used in cell replacement therapy for Parkinson's disease.
Mutations in the LRRK2 gene are the most common genetic cause of familial Parkinson's disease (PD). However, its physiological and pathological functions are unknown. Therefore, we generated several independent Drosophila lines carrying WT or mutant human LRRK2 (mutations in kinase, COR or LRR domains, resp.). Ectopic expression of WT or mutant LRRK2 in dopaminergic neurons caused their significant loss accompanied by complex age-dependent changes in locomotor activity. Overall, the ubiquitous expression of LRRK2 increased lifespan and fertility of the flies. However, these flies were more sensitive to rotenone. LRRK2 expression in the eye exacerbated retinal degeneration. Importantly, in double transgenic flies, various indices of the eye and dopaminergic survival were modified in a complex fashion by a concomitant expression of PINK1, DJ-1 or Parkin. This evidence suggests a genetic interaction between these PD-relevant genes.
Thymosin beta4 (Tbeta4) is an actin-binding peptide whose expression in developing brain correlates with migration and neurite extension of neurons. Here, we studied the effects of the downregulation of Tbeta4 expression on growth and differentiation of murine neural progenitor cells (NPCs), using an antisense lentiviral vector. In differentiation-promoting medium, we found twice the number of neurons derived from the Tbeta4-antisense-transduced NPCs, which showed enhanced neurite outgrowth accompanied by increased expression of the adhesion complex N-cadherin-beta-catenin and increased ERK activation. Importantly, when the Tbeta4-antisense-transduced NPCs were transplanted in vivo into a mouse model of spinal cord injury, they promoted a significantly greater functional recovery. Locomotory recovery correlated with increased expression of the regeneration-promoting cell adhesion molecule L1 by the grafted Tbeta4-antisense-transduced NPCs. This resulted in an increased number of regenerating axons and in sprouting of serotonergic fibers surrounding and contacting the Tbeta4-antisense-transduced NPCs grafted into the lesion site. In conclusion, our data identify a new role for Tbeta4 in neuronal differentiation of NPCs by regulating fate determination and process outgrowth. Moreover, NPCs with reduced Tbeta4 levels generate an L1-enriched environment in the lesioned spinal cord that favors growth and sprouting of spared host axons and enhances the endogenous tissue-repair processes.

In diseases with unpredictably long latent period, such as multiple sclerosis (MS), cluster studies, and the analysis of disease distribution by gender and age of onset, can provide clues to disease etiopathogenesis. Sardinia, insular Italy, is among the regions at highest risk for MS worldwide. Multiple epidemiological evidences favour the role of exogenous factors in modulating MS incidence in Sardinians. Its steady increase over time is the main determinant for the observed increased prevalence of MS. Incidence is especially increasing for MS with RR initial course, in individuals with older age and in the female population. More women that will develop MS are believed to being born now. Early childhood is likely the age of susceptibility to MS, and especially in women, in most recent cases, and in individuals developing MS at earlier age and with RR initial clinical course. These evidences suggest that specific exogenous (gender-related? perinatal?) factors have recently been exerting as determinants of the MS increase in Sardinians and the change of its phenotype. Such factors are unlikely agents with fixed latency incubation period, but they could rather be the result of recent lifestyle changes and/or of their interplay with a highly susceptible genetic background.
A common problem faced by researchers using transgenic models to study disease is the phenotypic variability that exists within a group or colony of animals. Significant pathological analyses thus often require large numbers of mice to perform. Many lines of transgenic mice harboring the gene for human amyloid precursor protein (APP) with different mutations causing familial Alzheimer's disease have been developed over the past decade to study plaque deposition and other aspects of AD. However, variations in size, density, plaque number, and total amyloid load between animals of the same age and genotype have been identified by our lab and others. Therefore, to study the effects of compounds on amyloid pathology, it was imperative to develop a technique that would allow each brain hemisphere to receive different infusions. We have developed catheters that facilitate simultaneous bilateral infusion in mouse brains, thereby using the contralateral hemisphere of the same animal as an internal control while studying, for example, the effect of compounds on amyloid plaques, a pathological hallmark of the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Several molecules have been identified within the plaques including the major component, the Abeta peptide, and two inflammation-related proteins, apolipoprotein E (apoE) and the serine protease inhibitor alpha-1-antichymotrypsin (ACT). In these experiments, ACT was infused unilaterally over a period of 28 days into the parenchyma and lateral ventricles of PS/APP mice and observed to associate with amyloid plaques, with minimal mortality. Utilizing the ACT/Abeta interaction, details of this procedure are discussed here in detail.
Cytochrome c oxidase or mitochondrial respiratory chain complex IV is where over 90% of oxygen is consumed. The relationship between complex IV activity and mitochondrial proteins, which provides a guide to understanding the mechanisms in primary mitochondrial disorders, has been determined by histochemistry (activity) and immunohistochemistry in serial sections. In the central nervous system (CNS), mitochondrial activity and immunoreactivity have been determined in populations of cells in serial sections as capturing cells in more than one section is difficult. In this report we describe a method to determine complex IV activity in relation to mitochondrial proteins at a single cell level in the CNS. We performed complex IV histochemistry and immunohistochemistry consecutively in snap frozen sections. Although the product of complex IV histochemistry reduces the sensitivity of standard immunohistochemistry (secondary antibody and ABC method) the biotin-free Menapath polymer detection system (A. Menarini Diagnostics, Wokingham, UK) enables mitochondrial proteins to be detected following complex IV histochemistry. The co-occurring chromogens may then be separately visualised and analysed using multi-spectral imaging (Nuance system CRi, Woburn, MA). Our technique is applicable for exploring mitochondrial defects within single cells in a variety of CNS disorders and animal models of those diseases.
Neurobiological studies using primary neuronal cultures commonly employ fetal-derived neurons, but much less often adult brain-derived neurons. Our goal is to perform morphological and molecular characterization of primary neuronal cultures from adult rat brain, including the relative expression of neuronal and glial cell markers at different time points. We tested the hypothesis that long-term neuronal viability is compatible with glial proliferation in adult neuron culture. We examined neuron culture from adult rat brain, which was maintained at steady state up to 24 days, and characterized them on the basis of cellular, molecular and biochemical properties at different time points of the culture. We identified neuronal and glial cells by both immunocytochemical and western immunoblotting techniques using NSE and Tau as neuronal markers and GFAP as glial protein marker, which revealed the presence of predominantly neuronal cells in the initial phase of the culture and a rise in glial cells from day 12 onwards. Notably, neuronal cells were preserved in the culture along with the glial cells even at day 24. Transfection of the cultured cells with a GFP expression vector and plasmids containing a luciferase reporter gene under the control of two different gene promoters demonstrated DNA transfectability. Taken together, these results suggest a differential expression of neuronal and glial cells at different time points and long-term neuronal viability in the presence of glial proliferation. Such adult neurons serve as a suitable system for the application of neurodegeneration models and for drug target discovery in various brain disorders including Alzheimer's disease.
Neuronal loss is a common feature of many neurological disorders, including stroke, Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease and traumatic brain injury. Human embryonic stem cell (hESC)-derived neural progenitors (NPs) may provide new ways of treatment for several diseases and injuries in the brain, as well as enhance our understanding of early human development. Here we report a method for rapid generation of proliferating NPs from feeder free cultures of undifferentiated hESCs. In this rapid and simple protocol, NPs are derived by seeding undifferentiated hESC on adherent surfaces of laminin or gelatine with normal hESC culturing medium and with the addition of basic fibroblast growth factor. After the first passage, adherent monolayer progenitors are derived that express early neuroectodermal and progenitor markers, such as Nestin, Sox1, Sox2, Sox3, Internexin, Musashi-1, NCAM, and Pax6. This novel protocol renders hESCs suitable for large scale progenitor production and long-term propagation, and the progenitors have the capacity to differentiate in vitro into all three neural lineages (neurons, astrocytes and oligodendrocytes). This method allows rapid, cost-efficient production of expandable progenitors that may be a source of cells for the restoration of cellular and functional loss after neurodegeneration and/or provide a useful source of progenitor cells for studying early brain development.
Neuronal staining techniques have played a crucial role in the analysis of neuronal function. Several different staining techniques have been developed to allow morphological analyses of neurons. DiOlistic labeling, in which beads are coated with a lipophilic dye and then ballistically ejected onto brain tissue, has recently been introduced as a useful and simple means to label neurons and glia in their entirety. Although diOlistic labeling provides detailed information on the morphology of neurons, combining this approach with other staining methods is a significant advance. We have developed protocols that result in high quality diOlistically- and retrogradely-labeled or diOlistically-immunohistochemically labeled neurons. These dual-label methods require modification of fixation parameters and the restricted use of detergents for tissue permeabilization, and are readily applicable to a wide range of tracers and antibodies.
In this paper we present an efficient method to generate realistic simulations of extracellular recordings. The method uses a hybrid and computationally simple approach, where the features of the background noise arise naturally from its biophysical process of generation. The generated data resemble the characteristics of real recordings, as quantified by the amplitude and frequency distributions. Moreover, we reproduce real features that are specially challenging for the analysis of extracellular data, such as the presence of sparse firing neurons and multi-unit activity. We compare our simulations with real recordings from the human medial temporal lobe and exemplify their use for testing spike detection and sorting algorithms. These results show that this technique provides an optimal scenario for generating realistic simulations of extracellular recordings.
Rhythmic local field potentials (LFPs) arise from coordinated neural activity. Inference of neural function based on the properties of brain rhythms remains a challenging data analysis problem. Algorithms that characterize non-stationary rhythms with high temporal and spectral resolution may be useful for interpreting LFP activity on the timescales in which they are generated. We propose a Kalman smoother based dynamic autoregressive model for tracking the instantaneous frequency (iFreq) and frequency modulation (FM) of noisy and non-stationary sinusoids such as those found in LFP data. We verify the performance of our algorithm using simulated data with broad spectral content, and demonstrate its application using real data recorded from behavioral learning experiments. In analyses of ripple oscillations (100-250Hz) recorded from the rodent hippocampus, our algorithm identified novel repetitive, short timescale frequency dynamics. Our results suggest that iFreq and FM may be useful measures for the quantification of small timescale LFP dynamics.
The elevated plus-maze is a device widely used to assess rodent anxiety under the effect of several treatments, including pharmacological agents. The animal is placed at the center of the apparatus, which consists of two open arms and two arms enclosed by walls, and the number of entries and duration of stay in each arm are measured for a 5-min exposure period. The effect of an anxiolytic drug is to increase the percentage of time spent and number of entries into the open arms. In this work, we propose a new measure of anxiety levels in the rat submitted to the elevated plus-maze. We represented the spatial structure of the elevated plus-maze in terms of a directed graph and studied the statistics of the rat's transitions between the nodes of the graph. By counting the number of times each transition is made and ordering them in descending frequency we represented the rat's behavior in a rank-frequency plot. Our results suggest that the curves obtained under different pharmacological conditions can be well fitted by a power law with an exponent sensitive to both the drug type and the dose used.
The archer fish (Toxotes chatareus) exhibits unique visual behavior in that it is able to aim at and shoot down with a squirt of water insects resting on the foliage above water level and then feed on them. This extreme behavior requires excellent visual acuity, learning, and tight synchronization between the visual system and body motion. This behavior also raises many important questions, such as the fish's ability to compensate for air-water refraction and the neural mechanisms underlying target acquisition. While many such questions remain open, significant insights towards solving them can be obtained by tracking the eye and body movements of freely behaving fish. Unfortunately, existing tracking methods suffer from either a high level of invasiveness or low resolution. Here, we present a video-based eye tracking method for accurately and remotely measuring the eye and body movements of a freely moving behaving fish. Based on a stereo vision system and a unique triangulation method that corrects for air-glass-water refraction, we are able to measure a full three-dimensional pose of the fish eye and body with high temporal and spatial resolution. Our method, being generic, can be applied to studying the behavior of marine animals in general. We demonstrate how data collected by our method may be used to show that the hunting behavior of the archer fish is composed of surfacing concomitant with rotating the body around the direction of the fish's fixed gaze towards the target, until the snout reaches in the correct shooting position at water level.
Many physiological responses elicited by neuronal spikes-intracellular calcium transients, synaptic potentials, muscle contractions-are built up of discrete, elementary responses to each spike. However, the spikes occur in trains of arbitrary temporal complexity, and each elementary response not only sums with previous ones, but can itself be modified by the previous history of the activity. A basic goal in system identification is to characterize the spike-response transform in terms of a small number of functions-the elementary response kernel and additional kernels or functions that describe the dependence on previous history-that will predict the response to any arbitrary spike train. Here we do this by developing further and generalizing the &quot;synaptic decoding&quot; approach of Sen et al. (1996). Given the spike times in a train and the observed overall response, we use least-squares minimization to construct the best estimated response and at the same time best estimates of the elementary response kernel and the other functions that characterize the spike-response transform. We avoid the need for any specific initial assumptions about these functions by using techniques of mathematical analysis and linear algebra that allow us to solve simultaneously for all of the numerical function values treated as independent parameters. The functions are such that they may be interpreted mechanistically. We examine the performance of the method as applied to synthetic data. We then use the method to decode real synaptic and muscle contraction transforms.
Event-related skin conductance responses (SCRs) are traditionally analysed by comparing the amplitude of individual peaks against a pre-stimulus baseline. Many experimental manipulations in cognitive neuroscience dictate paradigms with short inter trial intervals, precluding accurate baseline estimation for SCR measurements. Here, we present a novel and general approach to SCR analysis, derived from methods used in neuroimaging that estimate responses using a linear convolution model. In effect, the method obviates peak-scoring and makes use of the full SCR. We demonstrate, across three experiments, that the method has face validity in analysing reactions to a loud white noise and emotional pictures, can be generalised to paradigms where the shape of the response function is unknown and can account for parametric trial-by-trial effects. We suggest our approach provides greater flexibility in analysing SCRs than existing methods.
Calcium imaging has been widely used to address questions of neuronal function and development. To gain deeper insights into the actions of calcium as a second messenger, but also to measure synaptic function, it is necessary to quantify the level of calcium at rest and during calcium transients. While quantification of calcium levels is straightforward when using ratiometric calcium indicators, these dyes have several draw-backs due to their short wavelength excitation spectra, such as light scattering and cytotoxicity. In contrast, many single-wavelength indicators exhibit superior photostability, low phototoxicity, extended dynamic ranges and very high signal to noise ratios. However, quantifying calcium levels in unperturbed neurons has not been performed with these indicators. Here, we explore a new approach for determining the calcium concentration at rest as well as calcium rises during evoked and spontaneous neuronal activity in unperturbed developing neurons using a single-wavelength calcium indicator. We show that measuring the maximal fluorescence at the end of an imaging experiment allows determining calcium levels with high resolution. Specifically, we assessed the limits of calcium measurements with a CCD camera in small neuronal processes and found that even in small diameter dendrites and spines the intracellular calcium concentration and its changes can be estimated accurately. This approach may not only allow mapping patterns of neuronal activity quantitatively with the resolution of single synapses and a few tens of milliseconds, but also facilitate investigating the role of calcium as a second messenger.
When calculating correlation networks from multi-electrode array (MEA) data, one works with extensive computations. Unfortunately, as the MEAs grow bigger, the time needed for the computation grows even more: calculating pair-wise correlations for current 60 channel systems can take hours on normal commodity computers whereas for future 1000 channel systems it would take almost 280 times as long, given that the number of pairs increases with the square of the number of channels. Even taking into account the increase of speed in processors, soon it can be unfeasible to compute correlations in a single computer. Parallel computing is a way to sustain reasonable calculation times in the future. We provide a general tool for rapid computation of correlation networks which was tested for: (a) a single computer cluster with 16 cores, (b) the Newcastle Condor System utilizing idle processors of university computers and (c) the inter-cluster, with 192 cores. Our reusable tool provides a simple interface for neuroscientists, automating data partition and job submission, and also allowing coding in any programming language. It is also sufficiently flexible to be used in other high-performance computing environments.

Loss of the oligodendrocyte (OL)-specific enzyme aspartoacylase (ASPA) from gene mutation results in the sponginess and loss of white matter (WM) in Canavan disease (CD). This study addresses the fate of OLs during the pathophysiology of CD in an adult ASPA knockout (KO) mouse strain. Massive arrays of neural stem/progenitor cells, immunopositive for PSA-NCAM, nestin, vimentin, and NG2, were observed within the severely affected spongy WM of the KO mouse brain. In these mice, G1--&gt;S cell cycle progression was confirmed by an increase in cdk2-kinase activity, a reduction in mitotic inhibitors p21(Cip1) and p27(Kip1), and an increase in bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) incorporation. Highly acetylated nuclear histones H2B and H3 were detected in adult KO mouse WM, suggesting the existence of noncompact chromatin as seen during early development. Costaining for BrdU- or Ki67-positive cells with markers for neural progenitors confirmed a continuous generation of OL lineage cells in KO WM. We observed a severe reduction in 21.5- and 18.5-kDa myelin basic protein and PLP/DM20 proteolipid proteins combined with a decrease in myelinated fibers and a perinuclear retention of myelin protein staining, indicating impairment in protein trafficking. Death of OLs, neurons, and astrocytes was identified in every region of the KO brain. Immature OLs constituted the largest population of dying cells, particularly in WM. We also report an early expression of full-length ASPA mRNA in normal mouse brain at embryonic day 12.5, when OL progenitors first appear during development. These findings support involvement of ASPA in CNS development and function.
Axonal signals are critical in promoting the survival and maturation of oligodendrocytes during myelination, with contact-dependent signals thought to play a key role. However, the exact nature of these signals remains unclear. Neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) is expressed by both axons and oligodendrocytes and is ideally localized to transduce signals from the axon. This study sought to investigate the influence of NCAM on premyelinating oligodendrocytes in vitro. Both a soluble molecule comprising the extracellular domain of NCAM and a peptide derived from the fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR) binding motif within the first fibronectin domain stimulated a dose-dependent increase in survival of premyelinating oligodendrocytes in vitro. The survival effect was blocked by a mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) inhibitor and an FGFR inhibitor, suggesting that activation of MAPK signalling pathways following interaction with the FGFR is involved in the survival effect of NCAM. Furthermore, NCAM presented in a cellular monolayer induced an increase in radial process outgrowth of oligodendrocyte progenitor cells. These data suggest that NCAM may play a role in axon-oligodendrocyte signalling during myelination, leading to an increase in oligodendrocyte survival and process outgrowth following axonal contact.
Hearing loss has been attributed to many factors, including degeneration of sensory neurons in the auditory pathway and demyelination along the cochlear nerve. Fibroblast growth factors (FGFs), which signal through four receptors (Fgfrs), are produced by auditory neurons and play a key role in embryonic development of the cochlea and in neuroprotection against sound-induced injury. However, the role of FGF signaling in the maintenance of normal auditory function in adult and aging mice remains to be elucidated. Furthermore, the contribution of glial cells, which myelinate the cochlear nerves, is poorly understood. To address these questions, we generated transgenic mice in which Fgfr1 and Fgfr2 were specifically inactivated in Schwann cells and oligodendrocytes but not in neurons. Adult mutant mice exhibited late onset of hearing impairment, which progressed markedly with age. The hearing impairment was accompanied by significant loss of myelinated spiral ganglion neurons. The pathology extended into the cochlear nucleus, without apparent loss of myelin or of the deletion-bearing glial cells themselves. This suggests that perturbation of FGF receptor-mediated glial function leads to the attenuation of glial support of neurons, leading to their loss and impairment of auditory functions. Thus, FGF/FGF receptor signaling provides a potentially novel mechanism of maintaining reciprocal interactions between neurons and glia in adult and aging animals. Dysfunction of glial cells and FGF receptor signaling may therefore be implicated in neurodegenerative hearing loss associated with normal aging.
The general view of development consists of the acquisition of committed/differentiated phenotypes following a period of self-renewal and progenitor expansion. Lineage specification and progression are phenomena of antagonistic events, silencing tissue-specific gene expression in precursors to allow self-renewal and multipotentiality, and subsequently suppressing proliferation and embryonic gene expression to promote the restricted expression of tissue-specific genes during maturation. The high mobility group-containing Sox family of transcription factors constitutes one of the earliest classes of genes to be expressed during embryonic development. These proteins not only are indispensable for progenitor cell specification but also are critical for terminal differentiation of multiple cell types in a wide variety of lineages. Sox transcription factors are now known to induce or repress progenitor cell characteristics and cell proliferation or to activate the expression of tissue-specific genes. Sox proteins fulfill their diverse functions in developmental regulation by distinct molecular mechanisms. Not surprisingly, in addition to DNA binding and bending, Sox transcription factors also interact with different protein partners to function as coactivators or corepressors of downstream target genes. Here we seek to provide an overview of the current knowledge of Sox gene functional mechanisms, in an effort to understand their roles in both development and pathology.
Previously we showed that insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) promotes sustained phosphorylation of Akt in oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs) and that Akt phosphorylation is required for survival of these cells. The direct mechanisms, however, by which IGF-I promotes Akt phosphorylation are currently undefined. Recently, cholesterol-enriched membranes (CEMs) have been implicated in regulation of growth factor-mediated activation of the PI3K/Akt pathway and survival of mature oligodendrocytes; however, less is know about their role in OPC survival. In the present study, we investigate the role of CEMs in IGF-I-mediated Akt phosphorylation and OPC survival. We report that acute disruption of membrane cholesterol with methyl-beta-cyclodextrin results in altered OPC morphology and inhibition of IGF-I-mediated Akt phosphorylation. We also report that long-term inhibition of cholesterol biosynthesis with 25-hydroxycholesterol blocks IGF-I stimulated Akt phosphorylation and cell survival. Moreover, we show that the PI3K regulatory subunit, p85, Akt, and the IGF-IR are sequestered within cholesterol-enriched fractions in steady-state stimulation of the IGF-IR and that phosphorylated Akt and IGF-IR are present in cholesterol-enriched fractions with IGF-I stimulation. Together, the results of these studies support a role for CEMs or &quot;lipid rafts&quot; in IGF-I-mediated Akt phosphorylation and provide a better understanding of the mechanisms by which IGF-I promotes OPC survival.
Establishment of the cytoarchitecture of the central nervous system reflects the stereotyped cell migration and proliferation of precursor cells during development. In vitro analyses have provided extensive information on the control of proliferation and differentiation of oligodendrocyte precursors (OPCs), but less is known about the migratory behavior of these cells in vivo. Here we utilize a transgenic mouse line expressing enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) under the proteolipid protein promoter (PLP-EGFP mice) to visualize directly the behaviors of OPCs in developing spinal cord slices. During early development, OPCs disperse from their origin at the ventricular zone by using saltatory migration. This involves orientation of the cell with a leading edge toward the pial surface and alternating stationary and fast-moving phases and dramatic shape changes. Once cells exit the ventricular zone, they exhibit an exploratory mode of migration characterized by persistent translocation without dramatic changes in cell morphology. The control of migration, proliferation, and cytokinesis of OPCs appear to be closely linked. In netrin-1 mutant spinal cords that lack dispersal cues, OPC migration rates were not significantly different, but the trajectories were altered, and numbers of migrating cells were dramatically reduced. In contrast to DNA replication that occurs at the ventricular zone or throughout the spinal cord neuropil, cell division or cytokinesis of OPCs occurs predominantly at the interface between gray and white matters, with the majority of cleavage planes parallel to the pial surface. These studies suggest that positional cues are critical for regulating OPC behavior during spinal cord development.
Neurogenesis and cell differentiation in the brain continues throughout life. In the subventricular zone and rostral migratory stream, precursor cells contact each other. Cell-cell interactions mediated via adhesion molecules are no doubt involved in establishing and maintaining the neurogenic ability of these cells. Here, we demonstrate that N-cadherin plays important roles in forming cell clusters and in regulating cell differentiation. N-cadherin is abundantly expressed in chain migrating cells in the subventricular zone and rostral migratory stream but is down-regulated after cells exit these regions. We also show that neurosphere formation is inhibited via suppression of N-cadherin function and that N-cadherin expression is decreased after induction of neurosphere differentiation. Furthermore, we demonstrate that functional blockade of N-cadherin can enhance glial cell differentiation in explant cultures of precursors from the subventricular zone.
Myelin sheaths include an extraordinary structure, the &quot;paranodal axoglial junction&quot; (PNJ), which attaches the sheath to the axon at each end of each myelin segment. Its size is enormous and its structure unique. Here we review past and current studies showing that this junction can serve multiple functions in maintaining reliable saltatory conduction. The present evidence points to three functions in particular. 1) It seals the myelin sheath to the axon to prevent major shunting of nodal action currents beneath the myelin sheath while still leaving a narrow channel interconnecting the internodal periaxonal space with the perinodal space. This pathway represents a potential route through which juxtaparanodal and internodal channels can influence nodal activity and through which nutrients, such as glucose, and other metabolites can diffuse to and from the internodal periaxonal space. 2) It serves as a mechanism for maintaining discrete, differentiated axolemmal domains at and around the node of Ranvier by acting as a barrier to the lateral movement of ion channel complexes within the axolemma, thus concentrating voltage-gated sodium channels at the node and segregating fast voltage-gated potassium channels to the juxtaparanode under the myelin sheath. 3) It attaches the myelin sheath to the axon on either side of the node and can thus maintain nodal dimensions in the face of mechanical stresses associated with stretch or other local factors that might cause disjunction. It is therefore the likely means for maintaining constancy of nodal surface area and electrical parameters essential for consistency in conduction.
Neuron-glia interactions at paranodal junctions play important roles in action potential propagation. Among their many functions, they contribute to the passive electrical properties of myelinated nerve fibers and actively regulate the polarized distribution of ion channels along axons. Despite their importance, relatively little is known about the molecules responsible for paranode formation and function. Paranodal junction formation apparently depends on interactions among three cell adhesion molecules: caspr and contactin on the axon and neurofascin 155 (NF-155) on the glial membrane. Using Caspr-null paranodal mutant mice, we demonstrate that loss of paranodal junctions causes failure of NF-155 to partition into lipid rafts, indicating that proteins located at paranodal junctions have biochemical characteristics of lipid raft-associated proteins. Based on this property of paranodal junctions, mass spectrometry of lipid rafts isolated from a pure white matter tract (optic nerve) was used to search for new paranodal proteins. Because we used a relatively crude biochemical preparation, we identified several hundred different proteins. Among these, we found all previously described paranodal proteins. Further analysis based on antibody staining of central and peripheral nerves revealed beta-adducin, septin 2, and sh3p8 as putative paranodal proteins. We describe the localization of these proteins in relation to other markers of nodes, paranodes, and juxtaparanodes in adult and developing nerve fibers. Finally, we describe their distribution in dysmyelinating TremblerJ mice, a model for the peripheral neuropathy Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease.
Myelinating cocultures of Schwann cells and dorsal root ganglion neurons are a powerful experimental system for probing the molecular mechanisms of axon-Schwann cell interaction. The isolation of a pure population of myelination-competent Schwann cells is a prerequisite for this experimental system. We describe here a protocol for a FACS-based isolation of Schwann cells utilizing a specific affinity reagent (Necl1-Fc) and the use of these isolated cells in myelinating cocultures. An advantage of the myelinating coculture system is that Schwann cells and the neurons can be genetically manipulated before they are cocultured. We further show that our method allows the isolation of virally transduced Schwann cells in a single purification step. This protocol for the FACS-based isolation of myelination-competent Schwann cells by Necl1-Fc and the use of these cells in myelinating cocultures should significantly facilitate future studies aimed at delineation of the molecular mechanisms of axon-Schwann cell interactions and myelination.
Previous studies have suggested the existence of a gender bias in repair after demyelination. Here we report the existence of gender dimorphism for the regulation of cell number in the subventricular zone (SVZ), an area that has been studied for its repair potential. The number of Sox2(+) multipotential cells in the SVZ of young adult female mice was greater than in age-matched male siblings, but this difference was not evident prior to the surge of sex hormones (i.e., in prepubertal mice). To begin asking whether hormonally derived signals were responsible for these gender-related differences, we analyzed proliferation and survival of cultured male- and female-derived SVZ cells. Estrogen, but not testosterone treatment increased cell proliferation and survival of cultured cells after IFN-gamma treatment or after UV irradiation, regardless of the gender of origin. Because apoptosis in UV-irradiated SVZ cells correlated with the expression of the proapoptotic molecule p53, we postulated that this molecule could be responsible for the gender dimorphism in the SVZ. In agreement with this prediction, no difference in the SVZ cell number was detected in male and female p53 null mice. Together with previous reports, these results implicate p53 as an important component of the mechanism regulating gender dimorphism in the SVZ.
It is becoming increasingly clear that expression of Ca(2+) and Na(+) channels in the OL lineage is highly regulated and may be functionally related to different stages of development and myelination. Characterization of the mechanisms of voltage-dependent Ca(2+) and Na(+) entry are important because changes in intracellular Ca(2+) and Na(+) are central to practically all cellular activities. In nonexcitable cells, voltage-dependent Ca(2+) influx plays a key role in several important processes, including proliferation, apoptosis, and cell migration. It has been demonstrated that Ca(2+) signaling is essential in the development and functioning of OLs. For example, Ca(2+) uptake is required for the initiation of myelination, and perturbation of Ca(2+) homeostasis, e.g., overwhelming influxes of Ca(2+), leads to demyelination. Although OL progenitor cell Na(+) channels are present at a much lower density, their physiological properties appear to be indistinguishable from those recorded in neurons. Interestingly, recent data indicate that, as with neurons, some white matter OPCs possess the ability to generate Na(+)-dependent action potentials. This Mini-Review focuses on the mechanisms of Ca(2+) and Na(+) signaling in cells within the OL lineage mediated by voltage-operated ion channels, with a particular focus on the relevance of these voltage-dependent currents to oligodendroglial development, myelination, and demyelination. Overall, it is clear that cells in the OL lineage exhibit remarkable plasticity with regard to the expression of voltage-gated Ca(2+) and Na(+) channels and that perturbation of Ca(2+) and Na(+) homeostasis likely plays an important role in the pathogenesis underlying demyelinating diseases.

Dystonia is a disabling movement disorder with a significant impact on quality of life. The current therapeutic armamentarium includes various drugs, botulinum toxin injections, and occasionally (neuro)surgery. In addition, many patients are referred for paramedical (including allied health care) interventions. An enormous variation in the paramedical treatment is provided, largely because evidence-based, accepted treatment regimes are not available. We have conducted a systematic review of studies that explored the effect of various paramedical interventions in primary dystonia. Only studies that have used clinical outcome measures were included. There were no class A1 or A2 studies and therefore, level 1 or 2 practice recommendations for a specific intervention could not be deducted. Many papers were case reports, mostly with a very limited number of patients and a clear publication bias for beneficial effects of a particular paramedical intervention. Some potentially interesting interventions come from class B studies, which include physical therapy in addition to botulinum toxin injections (BoNT-A) in cervical dystonia; sensorimotor training and transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) in writer's cramp; and speech therapy added to BoNT-A injections in laryngeal dystonia. Good quality clinical studies are therefore warranted, which should have the aim to be generally applicable. A design in which the paramedical intervention is added to a current gold standard, for example, BoNT-A injections in cervical dystonia, is recommended.
Pain, as subjective content of consciousness, is an essential attention-calling sign that helps to survive. Pain relieve is obligatory for every physician, thus, its individual appearance can make the analgesia difficult to carry out. The improving neuroimaging techniques allow understanding the development of pain sensation. Through the 24 articles on the PubMed found with keywords 'pain' and 'neuroimaging', we review here the parts of the pain neuron matrix, their tasks and the assumed mechanism of the acute pain sensation. The mechanism of the individual pain sensation is illustrated by the view of the modular function of the medial part of the pain matrix. Experimental results of empathic pain suggest that pain sensation may occur without real damage of the tissues, as well. The pain network plays main role in chronic pain.
Searches of bibliographic databases generate lists of articles but do little to reveal connections between authors, institutions, and grants. As a result, search results cannot be fully leveraged. To address this problem we developed Sciologer, a prototype search and visualization system. Sciologer presents the results of any PubMed query as an interactive network diagram of the above elements. We conducted a cognitive evaluation with six neuroscience and six obesity researchers. Researchers used the system effectively. They used geographic, color, and shape metaphors to describe community structure and made accurate inferences pertaining to a) collaboration among research groups; b) prominence of individual researchers; and c) differentiation of expertise. The tool confirmed certain beliefs, disconfirmed others, and extended their understanding of their own discipline. The majority indicated the system offered information of value beyond a traditional PubMed search and that they would use the tool if available.

Amyloid beta-protein 1-42 (Abeta42) is believed to play a causative role in the development of Alzheimer disease (AD), although it is a minor part of Abeta. In contrast, Abeta40 is the predominant secreted form of Abeta and recent studies have suggested that Abeta40 has neuroprotective effects and inhibits amyloid deposition. We have reported that angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) converts Abeta42 to Abeta40, and its inhibition enhances brain Abeta42 deposition (Zou, K., Yamaguchi, H., Akatsu, H., Sakamoto, T., Ko, M., Mizoguchi, K., Gong, J. S., Yu, W., Yamamoto, T., Kosaka, K., Yanagisawa, K., and Michikawa, M. (2007) J. Neurosci. 27, 8628-8635). ACE has two homologous domains, each having a functional active site. In the present study, we identified the domain of ACE, which is responsible for converting Abeta42 to Abeta40. Interestingly, Abeta42-to-Abeta40-converting activity is solely found in the N-domain of ACE and the angiotensin-converting activity is found predominantly in the C-domain of ACE. We also found that the N-linked glycosylation is essential for both Abeta42-to-Abeta40- and angiotensin-converting activities and that unglycosylated ACE rapidly degraded. The domain-specific converting activity of ACE suggests that ACE inhibitors could be designed to specifically target the angiotensin-converting C-domain, without inhibiting the Abeta42-to-Abeta40-converting activity of ACE or increasing neurotoxic Abeta42.
The expression of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) in skeletal muscle is regulated by muscle activity; however, the underlying molecular mechanisms are incompletely understood. We show here that the expression of the synaptic collagen-tailed AChE form (ColQ-AChE) in quail muscle cultures can be regulated by muscle activity post-translationally. Inhibition of thiol oxidoreductase activity decreases expression of all active AChE forms. Likewise, primary quail myotubes transfected with protein disulfide isomerase (PDI) short hairpin RNAs showed a significant decrease of both the intracellular pool of all collagen-tailed AChE forms and cell surface AChE clusters. Conversely, overexpression of PDI, endoplasmic reticulum protein 72, or calnexin in muscle cells enhanced expression of all collagen-tailed AChE forms. Overexpression of PDI had the most dramatic effect with a 100% increase in the intracellular ColQ-AChE pool and cell surface enzyme activity. Moreover, the levels of PDI are regulated by muscle activity and correlate with the levels of ColQ-AChE and AChE tetramers. Finally, we demonstrate that PDI interacts directly with AChE intracellularly. These results show that collagen-tailed AChE form levels induced by muscle activity can be regulated by molecular chaperones and suggest that newly synthesized exportable proteins may compete for chaperone assistance during the folding process.
Glaucoma, one of the leading causes of irreversible blindness, is characterized by progressive degeneration of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) and optic nerves. Although glaucoma is often associated with elevated intraocular pressure, recent studies have shown a relatively high prevalence of normal tension glaucoma (NTG) in glaucoma patient populations. In the mammalian retina, glutamate/aspartate transporter (GLAST) is localized to Mller glial cells, whereas excitatory amino acid carrier 1 (EAAC1) is expressed in neural cells, including RGCs. Since the loss of GLAST or EAAC1 leads to retinal degeneration similar to that seen in NTG, we examined the effects of interleukin-1 (IL-1) on RGC death in GLAST- and EAAC1-deficient mice. IL-1 promoted increased glutamate uptake in Mller cells by suppressing intracellular Na(+) accumulation, which is necessary to counteract Na(+)-glutamate cotransport. The observed trends for the glutamate uptake increase in the wild-type (WT), GLAST- and EAAC1-deficient mice were similar; however, the baseline glutamate uptake and intracellular Na(+) concentration in the GLAST-deficient mice were significantly lower than those in the wild-type mice. Consistently, pretreatment with IL-1 exhibited no beneficial effects on glutamate-induced RGC degeneration in the GLAST-deficient mice. In contrast, IL-1 significantly increased glutamate uptake by Mller cells and the number of surviving RGCs in the wild-type and EAAC1-deficient mice. Our findings suggest that the use of IL-1 for enhancing the function of glutamate transporters may be useful for neuroprotection in retinal degenerative disorders including NTG.
Neuromelanin (NM)-containing dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra are selectively vulnerable in Parkinson's disease (PD), suggesting the involvement of NM in the pathogenesis. NM is composed of protein, lipid, trace metals and melanin component, a mixture of eumelanin produced from dopamine (DA)-quinone and pheomelanin containing 5-S-cyteinyl-DA-quinone. We reported that NM induces mitochondria-mediated apoptosis in human dopaminergic SH-SY5Y cells, which was suppressed completely by Protease K-treatment, suggesting the essential requirement for the protein component. In this paper, the role of the melanin component in NM-dependent apoptosis was studied using SH-SY5Y cells and synthesized DA-melanin (DAM) and L-cysteinyl-DAM (Cys-DAM). DAM oxidatively decreased glutathione (GSH) and sulfhydryl (SH) content in mitochondria, whereas NM increased GSH by de-S-glutathionylation of complex I. DAM induced mitochondrial permeability transition (mPT), leading to membrane potential collapse and cytochrome c release, whereas Cys-DAM did not. However, the cytotoxicity of DAM itself was rather mild and thiol-targeting reducing reagents, including GSH, dithiothreitol and N-acetyl-cysteine, increased apoptosis significantly. The reducing SH reagents activated caspase 3 and induced apoptosis, but did not affect mPT. On the other hand, NM itself activated mitochondria-initiated apoptotic cascade, which GSH suppressed completely. The results indicate that DAM induces apoptosis through the sequential activation by oxidation of SH status in mitochondria and reduction in cytoplasm, in contrast to the case with NM. The regulation of apoptotic processing by SH redox state is discussed in relation to degeneration of nigra-striatal DA neurons in aging and PD, where oxidative stress is increased with impaired antioxidant capacity.
Motoneuron loss is a significant medical problem, capable of causing severe movement disorders and even death. We have previously demonstrated that partial depletion of motoneurons induces dendritic atrophy in remaining motoneurons, with a concomitant reduction in motor activation. Treatment of male rats with testosterone attenuates the regressive changes following partial motoneuron depletion. To test whether testosterone has similar effects in females, we examined potential neuroprotective effects in motoneurons innervating muscles of the quadriceps of female rats. Motoneurons were selectively killed by intramuscular injection of cholera toxin-conjugated saporin. Simultaneously, some saporin-injected rats were given implants containing testosterone or left untreated. Four weeks later, surviving motoneurons were labeled with cholera toxin-conjugated HRP, and dendritic arbors were reconstructed in three dimensions. Compared to normal females, partial motoneuron depletion resulted in decreased dendritic length in remaining quadriceps motoneurons, and this atrophy was greatly attenuated by testosterone treatment. These findings suggest that testosterone has neuroprotective effects on morphology in both males and females, further supporting a role for testosterone as a neurotherapeutic agent in the injured nervous system.
Roots of Polygala tenuifolia Willdenow have been used in humans for centuries because of its sedative effects. We previously reported that BT-11, extracted from the roots of the plant, improved memory impairments in rats, enhanced memory in normal humans, and inhibited acetylcholinesterase activities in vitro. The present study was a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled comparison study to investigate whether BT-11 could enhance memory in the elderly humans. We used the Consortium to Establish a Registry for Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Packet (CERAD) and the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE). In the elderly, the total CERAD scores were much more significantly increased in the BT-11-treated group (n=28) than in the placebo-treated group (n=25). Especially, the mean scores of word list recognition, constructional recall and praxis, and modified Boston naming test were markedly improved in BT-11-treated group than in placebo-treated group. In conclusion, BT-11 could enhance some cognitive functions including memory in the elderly humans and therefore may be used as nutraceuticals that provide health benefits, including disease prevention and/or treatment.

A common approach to study neuronal aspects of emotional reactivity of borderline personality disorder (BPD) is to study the brain response to emotional faces with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). 10 BPD patients and 10 matched controls were submitted to an emotional discrimination task in which subjects had to identify an emotional face from a neutral face while fMRI data was acquired. BPD patients made more mistakes than controls in the discrimination task when negative faces were involved. The emotional discrimination task activated brain areas that are known to participate in processing of emotional faces (fusiform gyrus, insula and amygdala) regardless of the psychiatric condition. Additionally, BPD showed higher activation than controls in the middle and inferior temporal cortical areas, brain areas that participate in the processing of face features that carry emotional value. Furthermore, activity at this site correlated with impulsivity score in the Zuckerman-Kuhlman Personality Questionnaire. Our findings may be related to cognitive impairment that may be characteristic of the disorder.
Schizophrenia is thought to be a mental disorder caused by the disconnection of brain regions. Cumulative evidence of white matter deficit in patients with schizophrenia has been reported using voxel-based morphometry (VBM), but these studies have not been quantitatively reviewed. In the study reported herein, we used activation likelihood estimation (ALE) analysis to quantitatively estimate focal white matter abnormalities in patients with schizophrenia. Seventeen studies that compared the white matter deficit of patients with schizophrenia and healthy controls were ascertained. The frontal white matter regions and internal capsule revealed consistent white matter reduction in patient groups relative to healthy controls, suggesting a clear focal white matter deficit in patients with schizophrenia. These results support the macro-circuit theory of white matter change in schizophrenia.
Intensity dependence is an electrophysiological measure of intra-individual stability of the augmenting/reducing characteristic of N1/ P2 event-related potential amplitudes in response to stimuli of varying intensities. Abstinent ecstasy users typically show enhanced intensity dependence and higher levels of impulsivity and aggression. Enhanced intensity dependence and high impulsivity and aggression levels may be due to damage in the brain's serotonergic neurons as a result of ecstasy use. The present study investigated whether intensity dependence, impulsivity and aggression history can be used as indicators of previous chronic ecstasy usage. Forty-four abstinent polydrug users (8 women; age 19 to 61 years old) were recruited. All participants were currently residents at a local substance abuse facility receiving treatment and had been free of all drugs for a minimum of 21 days. The study found significantly enhanced intensity dependence of tangential dipole source activity and a history of more aggressive behavior in those who had previously been involved in chronic ecstasy use. Intensity dependence of the tangential dipole source and aggressive behavior history correctly identified 73.3% of those who had been regular ecstasy users and 78.3% of those who had not. Overall, 76.3% of the participants were correctly classified.
The short allele of a functional polymorphism (5-HTTLPR) in the serotonin transporter (5-HTT) promoter is associated with reduced serotonin transporter expression, lower in vivo 5-HTT binding, higher neuroticism and amygdala reactivity as well as facilitated fear conditioning and is a candidate variant for panic disorder. However, case-control studies have consistently failed to show an association between 5-HTTLPR and panic disorder. As psychiatric disorders are broadly defined phenotypes merging different symptoms to syndromes, they may not be very well suited for genetic association studies. An alternative approach is to measure symptoms along continuous symptom dimensions which may more appropriately reflect their biological underpinnings and may reveal subpopulations within clinical diagnostic groups. We recorded the symptomatic profile in 73 in panic disorder patients using observer-rated instruments (Panic Disorder Severity Scale, PDSS; Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale, MADRS) and hypothesized more severe symptoms in patients carrying the 5-HTTLPR s-allele. We observed a strong association between bi- and triallelic 5-HTTLPR polymorphisms and the symptomatic profile. Carriers of the 5-HTTLPR s-allele suffered from most severe panic and depressive symptoms. Our data highlight the importance of defining appropriate phenotypes for psychiatric genetic studies and demonstrate that the 5-HTTLPR genotype may be related to the symptomatic profiles rather than to the vulnerability to develop panic disorder.
The juxtacapsular nucleus of the anterior division of the BNST (jcBNST) receives robust glutamatergic projections from the basolateral nucleus of the amygdala (BLA), the postpiriform transition area, and the insular cortex as well as dopamine (DA) inputs from the midbrain. In turn the jcBNST sends GABAergic projections to the medial division of the central nucleus of the amygdala (CEAm) as well as other brain regions. We recently described a form of long-term potentiation of the intrinsic excitability (LTP-IE) of neurons of the juxtacapsular nucleus of BNST (jcBNST) in response to high-frequency stimulation (HFS) of the stria terminalis that was impaired during protracted withdrawal from alcohol, cocaine, and heroin and in rats chronically treated with corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) intracerebroventricularly. Here we show that DAergic neurotransmission is required for the induction of LTP-IE of jcBNST neurons through dopamine (DA) D1 receptors. Thus, activation of the central CRF stress system and altered DAergic neurotransmission during protracted withdrawal from alcohol and drugs of abuse may contribute to the disruption of LTP-IE in the jcBNST. Impairment of this form of intrinsic neuronal plasticity in the jcBNST could result in inadequate neuronal integration and reduced inhibition of the CEA, contributing to the negative affective state that characterizes protracted abstinence in post-dependent individuals. These results provide a novel neurobiological target for vulnerability to alcohol and drug dependence.
While we recently reported the beneficial effects of omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (n-3 PUFAs) in a mouse model of Parkinson's disease (PD), the mechanisms of action remain largely unknown. Here, we specifically investigated the contribution of the brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) to the neuroprotective effect of n-3 PUFA observed in a mouse model of PD generated by a subacute exposure to MPTP using a total of 7 doses of 20mg/kg over 5 days. The ten-month high n-3 PUFA treatment which preceded the MPTP exposure induced an increase of BDNF mRNA expression in the striatum, but not in the motor cortex of animals fed the high n-3 PUFA diet. In contrast, n-3 PUFA treatment increased BDNF protein levels in the motor cortex of MPTP-treated mice, an effect not observed in vehicle-treated mice. The mRNA expression of the high-affinity BDNF receptor tropomyosin-related kinase B (TrkB) was increased in the striatum of MPTP-treated mice fed the high n-3 PUFA diet compared to vehicle and MPTP-treated mice on the control diet and to vehicle mice on the high n-3 PUFA diet. These data suggest that the modulation of BDNF expression contributes, in part, to n-3 PUFA-induced neuroprotection in an animal model of PD.
Numerous neuroanatomical data indicate that the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BST) provides an interface between cortical and amygdaloid neurons, and effector neurons modulating motor, autonomic and neuroendocrine responses. Distinct divisions of the BST may be involved in stress response, homeostatic regulation, nociception, and motivated behaviors. Endogenous opioid peptides and receptors are expressed in the BST, but their exact distribution is poorly characterized. The present study used in situ hybridization in order to characterize the endogenous opioid system of the BST, focusing on both enkephalin and dynorphin neuropeptides, as well as their respective receptors (mu, delta, and kappa opioid receptors). We report that preprodynorphin mRNA is observed in distinct nuclei of the BST, namely the fusiform, oval and anterior lateral nuclei. In contrast, there is a widespread expression of preproenkephalin mRNA in both anterior and posterior divisions of the BST. Similarly, mu and kappa opioid receptors are broadly expressed in the BST, whereas delta opioid receptor mRNA was observed only in the principal nucleus. For further characterization of enkephalin-expressing neurons of the BST, we performed a double fluorescent in situ hybridization in order to reveal the coexpression of enkephalin peptides and markers of GABAergic and glutamatergic neurons. Although most neurons of the BST are GABAergic, there is also a modest population of glutamatergic cells expressing vesicular glutamate transporter 2 (VGLUT2) in specific nuclei of the BST. Finally, we identified a previously unreported population of enkephalinergic neurons expressing VGLUT2, which is principally located in the posterior BST.
Many believe that the majority of people are unable to carry a tune. Yet, this widespread idea underestimates the singing abilities of the layman. Most occasional singers can sing in tune and in time, provided that they perform at a slow tempo. Here we characterize proficient singing in the general population and identify its neuronal underpinnings by reviewing behavioral and neuroimaging studies. In addition, poor singing resulting from a brain injury or neurogenetic disorder (i.e., tone deafness or congenital amusia) is examined. Different lines of evidence converge in indicating that poor singing is not a monolithic deficit. A variety of poor-singing &quot;phenotypes&quot; are described, with or without concurrent perceptual deficits. In addition, particular attention is paid to the dissociations between specific abilities in poor singers (e.g., production of absolute vs. relative pitch, pitch vs. time accuracy). Such diversity of impairments in poor singers can be traced to different faulty mechanisms within the vocal sensorimotor loop, such as pitch perception and sensorimotor integration.
We show that phenoxyauxin herbicides and lipid-lowering fibrates inhibit human but not rodent T1R3. T1R3 as a coreceptor in taste cells responds to sweet compounds and amino acids; in endocrine cells of gut and pancreas T1R3 contributes to glucose sensing. Thus, certain effects of fibrates in treating hyperlipidemia and type II diabetes may be via actions on T1R3. Likewise, phenoxy herbicides may have adverse metabolic effects in humans that would have gone undetected in studies on rodents.

Attending to a stimulus enhances its neuronal representation, even at the level of primary sensory cortex. Cross-modal modulation can similarly enhance a neuronal representation, and this process can also operate at the primary cortical level. Phase reset of ongoing neuronal oscillatory activity has been shown to be an important element of the underlying modulation of local cortical excitability in both cases. We investigated the influence of attention on oscillatory phase reset in primary auditory and visual cortices of macaques performing an intermodal selective attention task. In addition to responses &quot;driven&quot; by preferred modality stimuli, we noted that both preferred and nonpreferred modality stimuli could &quot;modulate&quot; local cortical excitability by phase reset of ongoing oscillatory activity, and that this effect was linked to their being attended. These findings outline a supramodal mechanism by which attention can control neurophysiological context, thus determining the representation of specific sensory content in primary sensory cortex.
Spontaneous activity plays an important role in the function of neural circuits. Although many similarities between spontaneous and sensory-evoked neocortical activity have been reported, little is known about consistent differences between them. Here, using simultaneously recorded cortical populations and morphologically identified pyramidal cells, we compare the laminar structure of spontaneous and sensory-evoked population activity in rat auditory cortex. Spontaneous and evoked patterns both exhibited sparse, spatially localized activity in layer 2/3 pyramidal cells, with densely distributed activity in larger layer 5 pyramidal cells and putative interneurons. However, the propagation of spontaneous and evoked activity differed, with spontaneous activity spreading upward from deep layers and slowly across columns, but sensory responses initiating in presumptive thalamorecipient layers, spreading rapidly across columns. The similarity of sparseness patterns for both neural events and distinct spread of activity may reflect similarity of local processing and differences in the flow of information through cortical circuits, respectively.
The regulated trafficking of AMPA receptors (AMPARs) to synapses is thought to underlie the enhanced transmission in long-term potentiation (LTP), a cellular model of memory. However, there is controversy regarding the nonsynaptic site, either on the surface or intracellularly, from which AMPARs move into synapses during LTP. Using recombinant surface-fluorescent receptors in organotypic rat hippocampal slices, we show that the majority of AMPARs incorporated into synapses during LTP is from lateral diffusion of spine surface receptors containing GluR1, an AMPAR subunit. Following synaptic potentiation, AMPARs in intracellular pools containing GluR1 are driven to the surface primarily on dendrites. These exocytosed receptors likely serve to replenish the local extrasynaptic pool available for subsequent bouts of plasticity. These results clarify the role of intracellular and surface AMPARs during synaptic plasticity.
SNARE-mediated synaptic exocytosis is orchestrated by facilitatory and inhibitory mechanisms. Genetic ablations of Complexins, a family of SNARE-complex-binding proteins, in mice and Drosophila cause apparently opposite effects on neurotransmitter release, leading to contradictory hypotheses of Complexin function. Reconstitution experiments with different fusion assays and Complexins also yield conflicting results. We therefore performed cross-species rescue experiments to compare the functions of murine and Drosophila Complexins in both mouse and fly synapses. We found that murine and Drosophila Complexins employ conserved mechanisms to regulate exocytosis despite their strikingly different overall effects on neurotransmitter release. Both Complexins contain distinct domains that facilitate or inhibit synaptic vesicle fusion, and the strength of each facilitatory or inhibitory function differs significantly between murine and Drosophila Complexins. Our results show that a relative shift in the balance of facilitatory and inhibitory functions results in differential regulation of neurotransmitter release by murine and Drosophila Complexins in vivo, reconciling previous incompatible findings.
The proneural gene Math1 is known to be involved in numerous functions within the nervous system, including unconscious proprioception, audition, and arousal. Two recent papers by the Zoghbi group in this issue of Neuron and a recent issue of PNAS now identify a critical role for this gene in the development of brainstem regions critical for conscious proprioception, interoception, and respiration.
Cry11Aa of Bacillus thuringiensis subsp. israelensis is the most active toxin to Aedes aegypti in this strain. We previously reported that, in addition to a 65 kDa GPI (glycosylphosphatidylinositol)-anchored ALP (alkaline phosphatase), the toxin also binds a 250 kDa membrane protein. Since this protein is the same size as cadherin, which in lepidopteran insects is an important Cry toxin receptor, we developed an anti-AaeCad antibody. This antibody detects a 250 kDa protein in immunoblots of larval BBMVs (brush border membrane vesicles). The antibody inhibits Cry11Aa toxin binding to BBMVs and immunolocalizes the cadherin protein to apical membranes of distal and proximal caecae and posterior midgut epithelial cells. This localization is consistent with areas to which Cry11Aa toxin binds and causes pathogenicity. Therefore, the full-length Aedes cadherin cDNA was isolated from Aedes larvae and partial overlapping fragments that covered the entire protein were expressed in Escherichia coli. Using toxin overlay assays, we showed that one cadherin fragment, which contains CR7-11 (cadherin repeats 7-11), bound Cry11Aa and this binding was primarily through toxin domain II loops alpha8 and 2. Cadherin repeats CR8-11 but not CR7 bound Cry11Aa under non-denaturing conditions. Cry11Aa bound the cadherin fragment with high affinity with an apparent Kd of 16.7 nM. Finally we showed that this Cry11Aa-binding site could also be competed by Cry11Ba and Cry4Aa but not Cry4Ba. These results indicate that Aedes cadherin is possibly a receptor for Cry11A and, together with its ability to bind an ALP, suggest a similar mechanism of toxin action as previously proposed for lepidopteran insects.

Acid-sensing ion channel 1a (ASIC1a) promotes neuronal damage during pathological acidosis. ASIC1a undergoes a process called steady-state desensitization in which incremental pH reductions desensitize the channel and prevent activation when the threshold for acid-dependent activation is reached. We find that dynorphin A and big dynorphin limit steady-state desensitization of ASIC1a and acid-activated currents in cortical neurons. Dynorphin potentiation of ASIC1a activity is independent of opioid or bradykinin receptor activation but is prevented in the presence of PcTx1, a peptide which is known to bind the extracellular domain of ASIC1a. This suggests that dynorphins interact directly with ASIC1a to enhance channel activity. Inducing steady-state desensitization prevents ASIC1a-mediated cell death during prolonged acidosis. This neuroprotection is abolished in the presence of dynorphins. Together, these results define ASIC1a as a new nonopioid target for dynorphin action and suggest that dynorphins enhance neuronal damage following ischemia by preventing steady-state desensitization of ASIC1a.
Complex spike (CS) synchrony patterns are modulated by the release of GABA within the inferior olive (IO). The GABAergic projection to most of the IO arises from the cerebellar nuclei, which are themselves subject to strong inhibitory control by Purkinje cells in the overlying cortex. Moreover, the connections between the IO and cerebellum are precisely aligned, raising the possibility that each cortical region controls its own CS synchrony distribution. This possibility was tested using multielectrode recordings of CSs and simple spikes (SSs) in crus 2a of anesthetized rats. Picrotoxin or muscimol was applied to the cerebellar cortex at the borders of the recording array. These drugs induced significant changes in CS synchrony and in CS and SS firing rates and changes in post-CS pauses and modulation of SS activity. The level of CS synchrony was correlated with SS firing rate in control, and application of picrotoxin increased both. In contrast, muscimol decreased CS synchrony. Furthermore, when picrotoxin was applied only at the lateral edge of the array, changes in CS synchrony occurred sequentially across the recording array, with cells located in the lateral half of the array having earlier and larger changes in CS synchrony than cells in the medial half. The results indicate that a double-inhibitory feedback circuit from Purkinje cells to the IO provides a mechanism by which SS activity may regulate CS synchrony. Thus, CS synchrony may be a physiologically controlled parameter of cerebellar activity, with the cerebellum and IO comprising a series of self-updating circuits.
The auditory cortex of the cat is composed of 13 distinct fields that have been defined on the basis of anatomy, physiology, and behavior. Although an anatomically based hierarchical processing scheme has been proposed in auditory cortex, few functional studies have examined how these areas influence one another. The purpose of the present study was to examine the bidirectional processing contributions between primary auditory cortex (A1) and the nonprimary posterior auditory field (PAF). Multiunit acute recording techniques in eight mature cats were used to measure neuronal responses to tonal stimuli in A1 or PAF while synaptic activity from PAF or A1 was suppressed with reversible cooling deactivation techniques. Specifically, in four animals, electrophysiological recordings in A1 were conducted before, during, and after deactivation of PAF. Similarly, in the other four animals, PAF activity was measured before, during, and after deactivation of A1. The characteristic frequency, bandwidth, and neuronal threshold were calculated at each receptive field collected and the response strength and response latency measures were calculated from cumulative peristimulus time histograms. Two major changes in PAF response properties were observed during A1 deactivation: a decrease in response strength and a reduction in receptive field bandwidths. In comparison, we did not identify any significant changes in A1 neuronal responses during deactivation of PAF neurons. These findings support proposed models of hierarchal processing in cat auditory cortex.
Considerable evidence indicates that the basolateral complex of the amygdala (BLA) interacts with efferent brain regions in mediating glucocorticoid effects on memory consolidation. Here, we investigated whether glucocorticoid influences on the consolidation of memory for emotionally arousing training depend on functional interactions between the BLA and the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), a brain region involved in higher-order cognitive and affective processing. The glucocorticoid receptor (GR) agonist 11beta,17beta-dihydroxy-6,21-dimethyl-17alpha-pregna-4,6-trien-20yn-3-one (RU 28362) administered unilaterally into the left mPFC of male Sprague Dawley rats immediately after inhibitory avoidance training enhanced 48 h retention performance. An ipsilateral, but not contralateral, lesion of the BLA blocked the memory enhancement. In a second experiment, RU 28362 infused into the mPFC after inhibitory avoidance training increased BLA levels of phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (pErk1/2). Blockade of this pErk1/2 activity in the BLA with the mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase inhibitor PD98059 [2-(2-amino-3-methoxyphenyl)-4H-1-benzopyran-4-one] prevented the memory enhancement, suggesting that GR agonist administration into the mPFC enhances memory consolidation via modulation of BLA activity. Conversely, GR agonist infusions administered into the BLA posttraining increased pErk1/2 levels in the mPFC in regulating memory consolidation. Moreover, as assessed with a two-phase inhibitory avoidance procedure designed to separate modulatory influences on memory of context and footshock, posttraining GR agonist infusions into either the BLA or mPFC enhanced memory of the contextual as well as aversive information acquired during inhibitory avoidance training. These findings indicate that glucocorticoid effects on memory consolidation depend on bidirectional interactions between the BLA and mPFC.
Classically, the spinothalamic (ST) system has been viewed as the major pathway for transmitting nociceptive and thermoceptive information to the cerebral cortex. There is a long-standing controversy about the cortical targets of this system. We used anterograde transneuronal transport of the H129 strain of herpes simplex virus type 1 in the Cebus monkey to label the cortical areas that receive ST input. We found that the ST system reaches multiple cortical areas located in the contralateral hemisphere. The major targets are granular insular cortex, secondary somatosensory cortex and several cortical areas in the cingulate sulcus. It is noteworthy that comparable cortical regions in humans consistently display activation when subjects are acutely exposed to painful stimuli. We next combined anterograde transneuronal transport of virus with injections of a conventional tracer into the ventral premotor area (PMv). We used the PMv injection to identify the cingulate motor areas on the medial wall of the hemisphere. This combined approach demonstrated that each of the cingulate motor areas receives ST input. Our meta-analysis of imaging studies indicates that the human equivalents of the three cingulate motor areas also correspond to sites of pain-related activation. The cingulate motor areas in the monkey project directly to the primary motor cortex and to the spinal cord. Thus, the substrate exists for the ST system to have an important influence on the cortical control of movement.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is essential for neuronal survival and differentiation during development and for synaptic function and plasticity in the mature brain. BDNF-containing vesicles are widely distributed and bidirectionally transported in neurons, and secreted BDNF can act on both presynaptic and postsynaptic cells. Activity-dependent BDNF secretion from neuronal cultures has been reported, but it remains unknown where the primary site of BDNF secretion is and whether neuronal activity can trigger BDNF secretion from axons and dendrites with equal efficacy. Using BDNF fused with pH-sensitive green fluorescent protein to visualize BDNF secretion, we found that BDNF-containing vesicles exhibited markedly different properties of activity-dependent exocytic fusion at the axon and dendrite of cultured hippocampal neurons. Brief spiking activity triggered a transient fusion pore opening, followed by immediate retrieval of vesicles without dilation of the fusion pore, resulting in very little BDNF secretion at the axon. On the contrary, the same brief spiking activity induced &quot;full-collapse&quot; vesicle fusion and substantial BDNF secretion at the dendrite. However, full vesicular fusion with BDNF secretion could occur at the axon when the neuron was stimulated by prolonged high-frequency activity, a condition neurons may encounter during epileptic discharge. Thus, activity-dependent axonal secretion of BDNF is highly restricted as a result of incomplete fusion of BDNF-containing vesicles, and normal neural activity induces BDNF secretion from dendrites, consistent with the BDNF function as a retrograde factor. Our study also revealed a novel mechanism by which differential exocytosis of BDNF-containing vesicles may regulate BDNF-TrkB signaling between connected neurons.
Restriction of adjacent same-type axons/dendrites to separate single columns for specific neuronal connections is commonly observed in vertebrates and invertebrates, and is necessary for proper processing of sensory information. Columnar restriction is conceptually similar to tiling, a phenomenon referring to the avoidance of neurites from adjacent same-type neurons. The molecular mechanism underlying the establishment of columnar restriction or axonal/dendritic tiling remains largely undefined. Here, we identify Turtle (Tutl), a member of the conserved Tutl/Dasm1/IgSF9 subfamily of the Ig superfamily, as a key player in regulating the tiling pattern of R7 photoreceptor terminals in Drosophila. Tutl functions to prevent fusion between two adjacent R7 terminals, and acts in parallel to the Activin pathway. Tutl mediates homophilic cell-cell interactions. We propose that extrinsic terminal-terminal recognition mediated by Tutl, acts in concert with intrinsic Activin-dependent control of terminal growth, to restrict the connection made by each R7 axon to a single column.
A key function of the auditory system is to provide reliable information about the location of sound sources. Here, we describe how sound location is represented by synaptic input arriving onto pyramidal cells within auditory cortex by combining free-field acoustic stimulation in the frontal azimuthal plane with in vivo whole-cell recordings. We found that subthreshold activity was panoramic in that EPSPs could be evoked from all locations in all cells. Regardless of the sound location that evoked the largest EPSP, we observed a slowing in the EPSP slope along the contralateral-ipsilateral plane that was reflected in a temporal sequence of peak EPSP times. Contralateral sounds evoked EPSPs with earlier peak times and consequently generated action potential firing with shorter latencies than ipsilateral sounds. Thus, whereas spiking probability reflected the region of space evoking the largest EPSP, across the population, synaptic inputs enforced a gradient of spike latency and precision along the horizontal axis. Therefore, within auditory cortex and regardless of preferred location, the time window of synaptic integration reflects sound source location and ensures that spatial acoustic information is represented by relative timings of pyramidal cell output.
Musicians have lifelong experience parsing melodies from background harmonies, which can be considered a process analogous to speech perception in noise. To investigate the effect of musical experience on the neural representation of speech-in-noise, we compared subcortical neurophysiological responses to speech in quiet and noise in a group of highly trained musicians and nonmusician controls. Musicians were found to have a more robust subcortical representation of the acoustic stimulus in the presence of noise. Specifically, musicians demonstrated faster neural timing, enhanced representation of speech harmonics, and less degraded response morphology in noise. Neural measures were associated with better behavioral performance on the Hearing in Noise Test (HINT) for which musicians outperformed the nonmusician controls. These findings suggest that musical experience limits the negative effects of competing background noise, thereby providing the first biological evidence for musicians' perceptual advantage for speech-in-noise.
Radial glia in the developing optic tectum express the key guidance molecules responsible for topographic targeting of retinal axons. However, the extent to which the radial glia are themselves influenced by retinal inputs and visual experience remains unknown. Using multiphoton live imaging of radial glia in the optic tectum of intact Xenopus laevis tadpoles in conjunction with manipulations of neural activity and sensory stimuli, radial glia were observed to exhibit spontaneous calcium transients that were modulated by visual stimulation. Structurally, radial glia extended and retracted many filopodial processes within the tectal neuropil over minutes. These processes interacted with retinotectal synapses and their motility was modulated by nitric oxide (NO) signaling downstream of neuronal NMDA receptor (NMDAR) activation and visual stimulation. These findings provide the first in vivo demonstration that radial glia actively respond both structurally and functionally to neural activity, via NMDAR-dependent NO release during the period of retinal axon ingrowth.
A preclinical study on a gene therapy approach for treatment of the severe muscle weakness associated with a variety of neuromuscular disorders provides a forum to discuss the translational challenges of gene therapy from a regulatory point of view. In this Perspective, the findings are considered from the view of European regulatory requirements for first clinical use.
Despite converging evidence that major depressive illness is associated with both memory impairment and hippocampal pathology, findings vary widely across studies and it is not known whether these changes are regionally specific. In the present study we acquired brain MRIs (magnetic resonance images) from 31 unmedicated patients with MDD (major depressive disorder; mean age 39.2+/-11.9 years; 77% female) and 31 demographically comparable controls. Three-dimensional parametric mesh models were created to examine localized alterations of hippocampal morphology. Although global volumes did not differ between groups, statistical mapping results revealed that in MDD patients, more severe depressive symptoms were associated with greater left hippocampal atrophy, particularly in CA1 (cornu ammonis 1) subfields and the subiculum. However, previous treatment with atypical antipsychotics was associated with a trend towards larger left hippocampal volume. Our findings suggest effects of illness severity on hippocampal size, as well as a possible effect of past history of atypical antipsychotic treatment, which may reflect prolonged neuroprotective effects. This possibility awaits confirmation in longitudinal studies.
Auditory deviancy detection comprises both automatic and voluntary processing. Here, we investigated the neural correlates of different components of the sensory discrimination process using functional magnetic resonance imaging. Subliminal auditory processing of deviant events that were not detected led to activation in left superior temporal gyrus. On the other hand, both correct detection of deviancy and false alarms activated a frontoparietal network of attentional processing and response selection, i.e. this network was activated regardless of the physical presence of deviant events. Finally, activation in the putamen, anterior cingulate and middle temporal cortex depended on factual stimulus representations and occurred only during correct deviancy detection. These results indicate that sensory discrimination may rely on dynamic bottom-up and top-down interactions.
Cholinergic neurons are a major constituent of the mammalian central nervous system. Acetylcholine, the neurotransmitter used by cholinergic neurons, is synthesized from choline and acetyl CoA by the enzymatic action of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT). The transport of choline into the cholinergic neurons, which results in synthesis of ACh, is hemicholinium-sensitive and is referred to as high-affinity choline uptake (HACU). Thus, the formation of acetylcholine in cholinergic neurons largely depends on both the levels of choline being transported into the cells from the extracellular space and the activity of ChAT. Several methods were described previously to measure HACU and ChAT simultaneously in synaptosomes, but the same for cultured cells is lacking. We describe a procedure to measure HACU and ChAT at the same time in cultured cells by simple techniques employing radionuclides. In this procedure, we determined quantitatively hemicholinium-sensitive choline uptake and ChAT enzyme activity in a small number of differentiated human neuroblastoma (SK-N-SH) cells. We also determined the kinetics of choline uptake in the SK-N-SH cells. We believe that these simple methods can be used for neurochemical and drug discovery studies in several models of neurodegenerative disorders including Alzheimer's disease.
Metabotrophic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) modulate cellular activities involved in the processes of differentiation and degeneration. In this study, we have analysed the expression pattern of group-I metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGlu-5) in cerebral cortex, corpus striatum, brainstem and hippocampus of streptozotocin induced and insulin treated diabetic rats (D+I) as a function of age. Also, the functional role of glutamate receptors in intra cellular calcium release from the pancreatic islets was studied in vitro. The gene expression studies showed that mGlu-5 mRNA in the cerebral cortex increased siginficantly in 7 weeks old diabetic rats whereas decreased expression was observed in brainstem, corpus striatum and hippocampus when compared to control. 90 weeks old diabetic rats showed decreased expression in cerebral cortex, corpus striatum and hippocampus whereas in brainstem the expression increased significantly compared to their respective controls. In 7 weeks old D+I group, mGlu-5 mRNA expression was significantly decreased in cerebral cortex and corpus striatum whereas the expression increased significantly in brainstem and hippocampus. 90 weeks old D+I group showed an increased expression in cerebral cortex, while it was decreased significantly in corpus striatum, brainstem and hippocampus compared to their respective controls. In vitro studies showed that glutamate at lower concentration (10(-7) M) stimulated calcium release from the pancreatic islets. Our results suggest that mGlu-5 receptors have differential expression in brain regions of diabetes and D+I groups as a function of age. This will have clinical significance in management of degeneration in brain function and memory enhancement through glutamate receptors. Also, the regulatory role of glutamate receptors in calcium release has immense therapeutic application in insulin secretion and function.
A key principle of retinal organization is that distinct ON and OFF channels are relayed by separate populations of bipolar cells to different sublaminae of the inner plexiform layer (IPL). ON bipolar cell axons have been thought to synapse exclusively in the inner IPL (the ON sublamina) onto dendrites of ON-type amacrine and ganglion cells. However, M1 melanopsin-expressing ganglion cells and dopaminergic amacrine (DA) cells apparently violate this dogma. Both are driven by ON bipolar cells, but their dendrites stratify in the outermost IPL, within the OFF sublamina. Here, in the mouse retina, we show that some ON cone bipolar cells make ribbon synapses in the outermost OFF sublayer, where they costratify with and contact the dendrites of M1 and DA cells. Whole-cell recording and dye filling in retinal slices indicate that type 6 ON cone bipolars provide some of this ectopic ON channel input. Imaging studies in dissociated bipolar cells show that these ectopic ribbon synapses are capable of vesicular release. There is thus an accessory ON sublayer in the outer IPL.
Commissural interneurons (CINs) are a necessary component of central pattern generators (CPGs) for locomotion because they mediate the coordination of left and right muscle activity. The projection patterns and relative locations of different classes of CINs in the ventromedial part of the rodent lumbar cord have been described (Eide et al. [1999] J Comp Neurol 403:332-345; Stokke et al. [2002] J Comp Neurol 446:349-359; Nissen et al. [2005] J Comp Neurol 483:30-47). However, the distribution and relative prevalence of different CIN neurotransmitter phenotypes in the ventral region of the mammalian spinal cord where the locomotor CPG is localized is unknown. In this study we describe the relative proportions and anatomical locations of putative inhibitory and excitatory CINs in the lumbar spinal cord of newborn mice. To directly visualize potential neurotransmitter phenotypes we combined retrograde labeling of CINs with in situ hybridization against the glycine transporter, GlyT2, or the vesicular glutamate transporter, vGluT2, in wildtype mice and in transgenic mice expressing eGFP driven by the promoters of glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) 65, GAD67, or GlyT2. Our study shows that putative glycinergic, GABAergic, and glutamatergic CINs are expressed in almost equal numbers, with a small proportion of CINs coexpressing GlyT2 and GAD67::eGFP, indicating a putative combined glycinergic/GABAergic phenotype. These different CIN phenotypes were intermingled in laminas VII and VIII. Our results suggest that glycinergic, GABAergic, and glutamatergic CINs are the principal CIN phenotypes in the CPG region of the lumbar spinal cord in the newborn mouse. We compare these results to descriptions of CIN neurotransmitter phenotypes in other vertebrate species.
Activation of neuropeptide Y (NPY) Y1 receptors (Y1r) in the rat basolateral nuclear complex of the amygdala (BLA) produces anxiolysis and interferes with the generation of conditioned fear. NPY is important in regulating the output of the BLA, yet the cell types involved in mediating this response are currently unknown. The current studies employed multiple label immunocytochemistry to determine the distribution of Y1r-immunoreactivity (-ir) in glutamatergic pyramidal and GABAergic cell populations in the BLA using scanning laser confocal stereology. Pyramidal neurons were identified by expression of calcium-calmodulin dependent kinase II (CaMKII-ir) and functionally distinct interneuron subpopulations were distinguished by peptide (cholecystokinin, somatostatin) or calcium-binding protein (parvalbumin, calretinin) content. Throughout the BLA, Y1r-ir was predominately on soma with negligible fiber staining. The high degree of coexpression of Y1r-ir (99.9%) in CaMKII-ir cells suggests that these receptors colocalize on pyramidal cells and that NPY could influence BLA output by directly regulating the activity of these projection neurons. Additionally, Y1r-ir was also colocalized with the interneuronal markers studied. Parvalbumin-ir interneurons, which participate in feedforward inhibition of BLA pyramidal cells, represented the largest number of Y1r expressing interneurons in the BLA ( approximately 4% of the total neuronal population). The anatomical localization of NPY receptors on different cell populations within the BLA provides a testable circuit whereby NPY could modulate the activity of the BLA via actions on both projection cells and interneuronal cell populations.
Adult neurogenesis is often studied by labeling new cells with the thymidine analog bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) and using immunohistochemical methods for their visualization. Using this approach, considerable variability has been reported in the number of new cells produced in the dentate gyrus of adult rodents. We examined whether immunohistochemical methods, including BrdU antibodies from different vendors (Vector, BD, Roche, Dako, Novocastra, and Accurate) and DNA denaturation pretreatments alter the quantitative and qualitative patterns of BrdU labeling. We also compared the sensitivity and specificity of BrdU with two other thymidine analogs, iododeoxyuridine (IdU) and chlorodeoxyuridine (CldU). We found that the number of BrdU-labeled cells in the dentate gyrus of adult rats was dependent on the BrdU antibody used but was unrelated to differences in antibody penetration. Even at a higher concentration, some antibodies (Vector and Novocastra) stained fewer cells. A sensitive BrdU antibody (BD) was specific for dividing cells; all BrdU-labeled cells stained for Ki67, an endogenous marker of cell proliferation. We also observed that DNA denaturation pretreatments affected the number of BrdU-labeled cells and staining intensity for a marker of neuronal differentiation, NeuN. Finally, we found that IdU and CldU, when used at molarities comparable to those that label the maximal number of cells with BrdU, are less sensitive. These data suggest that antibody and thymidine analog selection, as well as the staining procedure employed, can affect the number of newly generated neurons detected in the adult brain, thus providing a potential explanation for some of the variability in the adult neurogenesis literature.


Spreading depression (SD), a self-propagating depolarization of neurons and glia, is believed to play a role in different neurological disorders including migraine aura and acute brain ischaemia. Initiation and propagation of SD modulate excitability of neuronal network. A brief period of excitation heralds SD which is immediately followed first by prolonged nerve cell depression and later by an excitatory phase. The aim of the present study was to characterize local and remote transmitter receptor changes after propagation of cortical SD. Quantitative receptor autoradiography was used to asses 16 transmitter receptor types in combined striatum-hippocampus-cortex slices of the rat 1 h after induction of cortical SD. In neocortical tissues, local increases of glutamate NMDA, AMPA, and kainate receptor binding sites were observed. In addition to up-regulation of ionotropic glutamate receptors, receptor binding sites of GABA(A), muscarinic M1 and M2, adrenergic alpha(1) and alpha(2), and serotonergic 5-HT(2) receptors were increased in the hippocampus. Cortical SD also upregulated NMDA, AMPA, kainate, GABA(A), serotonergic 5-HT(2), adrenergic alpha(2) and dopaminergic D1 receptor binding sites in the striatum. These findings indicate selective changes in several receptors binding sites both in cortical and subcortical regions by SD which may explain delayed excitatory phase after SD. Mapping of receptor changes by cortical SD increases our understanding of the mechanism of SD action in associated neurological disorders.
The Kavli Prizes were awarded for the first time in Oslo, Norway on September 9, 2008 to seven of the world's most prominent scientists in astrophysics, nanoscience and neuroscience. The astrophysics prize was awarded jointly to Maarten Schmidt, of the California Institute of Technology, USA, and Donald Lynden-Bell, of Cambridge University, UK; the nanoscience prize was awarded jointly to Louis E. Brus, of Columbia University, USA, and Sumio Iijima, of Meijo University, Japan; and the neuroscience prize was awarded jointly to Pasko Rakic, of the Yale University School of Medicine, USA, Thomas Jessell, of Columbia University, USA, and Sten Grillner, of the Karolinska Institute, Sweden. The Kavli Prize is a joint venture of the Kavli Foundation, the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters, and the Norwegian Ministry of Education and Research. The Kavli Prize Inaugural Symposium on Neuroscience was held at the University of Oslo on 8 September, 2008, organized by L.H. Bergersen, E. Moser M.-B. Moser, and J. Storm-Mathisen. At this Symposium, seven leading neuroscientists described their groundbreaking work, which encompasses some of the most important recent advances in the field of neuroscience, from molecule to synapse to network to behavior. The Symposium was a fitting tribute to Fred Kavli's vision of neuroscience as an outstanding area of progress, and to the achievements of the winners of the first Kavli Prize in Neuroscience. The main points of the Symposium presentations are summarized below.
The first Kavli Prize in Neuroscience recognizes a confluence of career achievements that together provide a fundamental understanding of how brain and spinal cord circuits are assembled during development and function in the adult. The members of the Kavli Neuroscience Prize Committee have decided to reward three scientists (Sten Grillner, Thomas Jessell, and Pasko Rakic) jointly &quot;for discoveries on the developmental and functional logic of neuronal circuits&quot;. Pasko Rakic performed groundbreaking studies of the developing cerebral cortex, including the discovery of how radial glia guide the neuronal migration that establishes cortical layers and for the radial unit hypothesis and its implications for cortical connectivity and evolution. Thomas Jessell discovered molecular principles governing the specification and patterning of different neuron types and the development of their synaptic interconnection into sensorimotor circuits. Sten Grillner elucidated principles of network organization in the vertebrate locomotor central pattern generator, along with its command systems and sensory and higher order control. The discoveries of Rakic, Jessell and Grillner provide a framework for how neurons obtain their identities and ultimate locations, establish appropriate connections with each other, and how the resultant neuronal networks operate. Their work has significantly advanced our understanding of brain development and function and created new opportunities for the treatment of neurological disorders. Each has pioneered an important area of neuroscience research and left a legacy of exceptional scientific achievement, insight, communication, mentoring and leadership.
In the rodent trigeminal principal nucleus (Pr5) the barrelette thalamic-projecting neurons relay information from individual whiskers to corresponding contralateral thalamic barreloids. Here we investigated the presence of lateral asymmetries in the dendritic trees of these neurons, and the morphometric changes resulting from input-dependent plasticity in young adult rats. After retrograde labeling with dextran amines from the thalamus, neurons were digitally reconstructed with Neurolucida, and metrically and topologically analyzed with NeuroExplorer. The most unexpected and remarkable result was the observation of side-to-side asymmetries in the barrelette neurons of control rats. These asymmetries more significantly involved the number of low-grade trees and the total dendritic length, which were greater on the left side. Chronic global input loss resulting from infraorbital nerve (IoN) transection, or loss of active touch resulting from whisker clipping in the right neutralized, or even reversed, the observed lateral differences. While results after IoN transection have to be interpreted in the context of partial neuron death in this model, profound bilateral changes were found after haptic loss, which is achieved without inflicting any nerve damage. After whisker trimming, neurons on the left side closely resembled neurons on the right in controls, the natural dendritic length asymmetry being reversed mainly by a shortening of the left trees and a more moderate elongation of the right trees. These results demonstrate that dendritic morphometry is both side- and input-dependent, and that unilateral manipulation of the sensory periphery leads to bilateral morphometric changes in second order neurons of the whisker-barrel system. The presence of anatomical asymmetries in neural structures involved in early stages of somatosensory processing could help explain the expression of sensory input-dependent behavioral asymmetries.
Spiral ligament fibrocytes (SLFs) in the mammalian cochlear lateral wall participate in K(+) recycling; they are classified into five subtypes based on their morphology, distribution, and function. Regeneration of SLFs is a potential therapeutic strategy for correcting several types of hearing loss, prompting us to investigate how SLF subtypes are established during development. We compared transitional SLF-type marker expression with mitotic activity to evaluate proliferation-differentiation relationships in SLFs from postnatal rat cochleae. I.p. injection of 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) demonstrated that the overall mitotic activity of SLFs decreased significantly between postnatal day 7 (P7) and P10. For all developmental periods, BrdU incorporation was weakest in the area where type I SLFs reside. The onset of expression of markers for type II/IV SLFs followed the reduced mitotic activity of the cells, whereas that of aquaporin-1, a marker for type III SLFs, was already detectable at P7, when the type III SLFs were still proliferating vigorously. Distribution of BrdU(+) cells increased in the area of type I SLFs between P7 and P10, suggesting migration of SLFs from adjacent areas. We conclude that the time course of development of SLFs is subtype-specific.
Faces are recognized by means of both shape and surface reflectance information. However, it is unclear how these two types of diagnostic information are represented in the human brain. To clarify this issue, we tested 14 participants in an event-related functional magnetic resonance adaptation paradigm, with four conditions created by using a 3D morphable model: (1) repetition of the same adapting face; (2) variation in shape only; (3) variation in surface reflectance only; (4) variation in both shape and surface reflectance. Change in face shape alone was the dominant driving force of the adaptation release in functionally defined face-sensitive areas in the right hemisphere (fusiform face area [FFA], occipital face area [OFA]). In contrast, homologous areas of the left hemisphere showed comparable adaptation release to changes in face shape and surface reflectance. When both changes in shape and reflectance were combined, there was no further increased release from adaptation in face-sensitive areas. Overall, these observations indicate that the two main sources of information in individual faces, shape and reflectance, contribute to individual face sensitivity found in the cortical face network. Moreover, the sensitivity to shape cues is more dominant in the right hemisphere, possibly reflecting a privileged mode of global (holistic) face processing.
The present study examined the effect of a subchronic systemic administration of the glutamate metabotropic mGluR5 receptor antagonist MPEP on l-DOPA-induced dyskinesias and striatal gene expression in adult rats with a unilateral 6-OHDA lesion of dopamine neurons. The daily systemic administration of l-DOPA for 2 weeks induced a gradual increase in limb dyskinesia and axial dystonia. The subchronic systemic co-administration of MPEP reduced the severity of limb dyskinesia and axial dystonia over the whole duration of l-DOPA treatment. Subchronic l-DOPA administration was paralleled by a significant increase in mRNA levels of the two isoforms of the GABA-synthesizing enzyme glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD67 and GAD65) and preprodynorphin (PPD). Single cell analysis on emulsion radioautographs indicated that l-DOPA-induced increases in GAD67 occurred predominantly in preproenkephalin-unlabeled striatonigral and, to a lesser extent, in preproenkephalin-labeled striatopallidal neurons. MPEP completely reversed the effects of l-DOPA on GAD67 and reduced the increases in GAD65 and PPD mRNA levels in striatonigral neurons. MPEP also reversed the small l-DOPA-induced increase in GAD67 mRNA levels in striatopallidal neurons. Altogether, the findings support the idea that the relative efficacy of mGluR5 receptor antagonists to oppose l-DOPA-induced abnormal involuntary movements involves an ability to oppose increases in GAD gene expression and GABA-mediated signaling in striatonigral and striatopallidal neurons. The results also confirm the potential usefulness of antagonists of mGluR5 receptors as adjuncts in the treatment of l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia in patients with Parkinson's disease.
The mechanism underlying phencyclidine (PCP)-induced apoptosis in perinatal rats and the development of schizophrenia-like behaviors is incompletely understood. We used antagonists for N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor subunit NR2A- and NR2B-containing NMDA receptor to test the hypothesis that the behavioral and apoptotic effects of PCP are mediated by blockade of NR1/NR2A-containing receptors, rather than NR1/NR2B-containing receptors. Sprague-Dawley rats were treated on PN7, PN9, and PN11 with PCP (10 mg/kg), PEAQX (NR2A-preferring antagonist; 10, 20, or 40 mg/kg), or ifenprodil (selective NR2B antagonist; 1, 5, or 10 mg/kg) and sacrificed for measurement of caspase-3 activity (an index of apoptosis) or allowed to age and tested for locomotor sensitization to PCP challenge on PN28-PN35. PCP or PEAQX on PN7, PN9, and PN11 markedly elevated caspase-3 activity in the cortex; ifenprodil showed no effect. Striatal apoptosis was evident only after subchronic treatment with a high dose of PEAQX (20 mg/kg). Animals treated with PCP or PEAQX on PN7, PN9, and PN11 showed a sensitized locomotor response to PCP challenge on PN28-PN35. Ifenprodil treatment had no effect on either measure. Therefore, PCP blockade of cortical NR1/NR2A, rather than NR1/NR2B, appears to be responsible for PCP-induced apoptosis and the development of long-lasting behavioral deficits.
Interactions between dopamine and glutamate receptors are essential for the prefrontal cortical (PFC) and hippocampal cognitive functions. In order to understand the molecular basis of dopamine/glutamate interactions in rat PFC and hippocampus, we investigated (a) the effect of in vitro dopamine D1 receptor stimulation on glutamate N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA) receptor subunits' phosphorylation and (b) the signal transduction pathway underlying these interactions, by examining the involvement of D1-extracellular regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) and D1/protein kinase A (PKA)/dopamine- and cyclic AMP-regulated phosphoprotein-32 (DARPP-32) signaling pathways. Furthermore, we compared the D1/NMDA/AMPA receptor interactions seen in PFC and hippocampus with those appearing in striatum, in which the D1 receptors' density is the highest within the mammalian brain. Our results showed that stimulation of D1 receptor by the specific agonist SKF38393 (10 microM) in PFC and hippocampal slices significantly increased the phosphorylation state of NR1ser897 and NR2Bser1303 subunits of NMDA receptor and of the GLUR1 (ser831 and ser845) subunit of AMPA receptor, as well as of ERK1/2, but not of DARPP-32. Interestingly, co-stimulation of D1 and NMDA receptors with an ineffective dose of SKF38393 (2 microM) and NMDA (5 microM) respectively, elevated further the phosphorylation level of NMDA and AMPA receptor subunits, as well as of ERK1/2, but not of DARPP-32. The D1- and D1/NMDA-induced phosphorylations were totally inhibited by SL327 (specific ERK1/2 inhibitor). Conversely, in striatal slices our data confirm that the D1-mediated phosphorylation of NMDA and AMPA receptor subunits relies on D1/PKA/DARPP-32 signaling. In conclusion, in PFC and hippocampus: (a) a strong synergistic interaction of D1 and NMDA receptors exists, which results in a significant ERK1/2 pathway activation, (b) the D1 and the D1/NMDA receptor-induced phosphorylation of NMDA and AMPA receptor subunits seems to rely on ERK1/2 signaling and could to some extent underlie the enhancement of NMDA and AMPA receptor currents mediated by D1 receptor activation.
Anxiety disorders, depression and animal models of vulnerability to a depression-like syndrome have been associated with dysregulation of brain serotonergic systems. These effects could result from genetic influences, adverse early life experiences (ELE), or acute stressful life events, all of which can alter serotonergic neurotransmission and have been implicated in determining vulnerability to neuropsychiatric disorders. To evaluate the effects of ELE, adverse experiences during adulthood, and potential interactions between these factors on neuronal tryptophan hydroxylase 2 (tph2) mRNA expression, we investigated in rats the effects of maternal separation (MS)(separation from the dam for 180 min/day from postnatal day 2-14; MS180, a model of vulnerability to a depression-like syndrome), neonatal handling (separation from the dam for 15 min/day from postnatal day 2-14; MS15, a model of decreased stress sensitivity), or normal animal facility rearing (AFR) control conditions, with or without subsequent exposure to adult social defeat, on tph2 mRNA expression in the dorsal raphe nucleus (DR). Among rats exposed to social defeat, MS180 rats had increased tph2 mRNA expression in the DR, while MS15 rats had decreased tph2 mRNA expression compared to AFR rats. Social defeat increased tph2 mRNA expression, but only in MS180 rats and only in the &quot;lateral wings&quot; of the DR, a subdivision of the DR that is part of a sympathomotor command center. Overall, these data demonstrate that ELE and stressful experience during adulthood interact to determine tph2 mRNA expression. These changes in tph2 mRNA expression represent a potential mechanism through which adverse ELEs and stressful life experiences during adulthood may interact to increase vulnerability to stress-related psychiatric disease.
Based upon recent findings in our laboratory that cytokines microinjected into the medial hypothalamus or periaqueductal gray (PAG) powerfully modulate defensive rage behavior in cat, the present study determined the effects of peripherally released cytokines following lipopolysaccharide (LPS) challenge upon defensive rage. The study involved initial identification of the effects of peripheral administration of LPS upon defensive rage by electrical stimulation from PAG and subsequent determination of the peripheral and central mechanisms governing this process. The results revealed significant elevation in response latencies for defensive rage from 60 to 300 min, post LPS injection, with no detectable signs of sickness behavior present at 60 min. In contrast, head turning behavior elicited by stimulation of adjoining midbrain sites was not affected by LPS administration, suggesting a specificity of the effects of LPS upon defensive rage. Direct administration of LPS into the medial hypothalamus had no effect on defensive rage, suggesting that the effects of LPS were mediated by peripheral cytokines rather than by any direct actions upon hypothalamic neurons. Complete blockade of the suppressive effects of LPS by peripheral pretreatment with an Anti-tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNFalpha) antibody but not with an anti- interleukin-1 (IL-1) antibody demonstrated that the effects of LPS were mediated through TNF-alpha rather than through an IL-1 mechanism. A determination of the central mechanisms governing LPS suppression revealed that pretreatment of the medial hypothalamus with PGE(2) or 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonists each completely blocked the suppressive effects of LPS, while microinjections of a TNF-alpha antibody into the medial hypothalamus were ineffective. Microinjections of -Iodo-N-[2-[4-(methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl]ethyl]-N-(2-pyridinyl) benzamide monohydrochloride (p-MPPI) into lateral hypothalamus (to test for anatomical specificity) had no effect upon LPS induced suppression of defensive rage. The results demonstrate that LPS suppresses defensive rage by acting through peripheral TNF-alpha in periphery and that central effects of LPS suppression of defensive rage are mediated through PGE(2) and 5-HT(1A) receptors in the medial hypothalamus.
Chronic stress is known to affect brain areas involved in learning and emotional responses. These changes, thought to be related to the development of cognitive deficits are evident in major depressive disorder and other stress-related pathophysiologies. The serotonin-related transcription factors (Freud-1/CC2D1A; five prime repressor element under dual repression/coiled-coil C2 domain 1a, and NUDR/Deaf-1; nuclear-deformed epidermal autoregulatory factor) are two important regulators of the 5-HT1A receptor. Using Western blotting and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) we examined the expression of mRNA and proteins for Freud-1, NUDR, and the 5-HT1A receptor in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) of male rats exposed to chronic restraint stress (CRS; 6 h/day for 21 days). After 21 days of CRS, significant reductions in both Freud-1 mRNA and protein were observed in the PFC (36.8% and 32%, respectively; P&lt;0.001), while the levels of both NUDR protein and mRNA did not change significantly. Consistent with reduced Freud-1 protein, 5-HT1A receptor mRNA levels were equally upregulated in the PFC, while protein levels actually declined, suggesting post-transcriptional receptor downregulation. The data suggest that CRS produces distinct alterations in the serotonin system specifically altering Freud-1 and the 5-HT1A receptor in the PFC of the male rat while having no effect on NUDR. These results point to the importance of understanding the mechanism for the differential regulation of Freud-1 and NUDR in the PFC as a basis for understanding the related effects of chronic stress on the serotonin system (serotonin-related transcription factors) and stress-related disorders like depression.
This study assessed the effect of the agonist 15d-PGJ(2) administered into the rat temporomandibular joint (TMJ) on nociceptive behavioral and the anti-inflammatory potential of this prostaglandin on TMJ. It was observed that 15-deoxy-(Delta12,14)-prostaglandin J(2) (15d-PGJ(2)) significantly reduced formalin-induced nociceptive behavior in a dose dependent manner, however injection of 15d-PGJ(2) into the contralateral TMJ failed to reduce such effects. This antinociceptive effect is dependent on peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors-gamma (PPAR-gamma) since pre-treatment with GW9662 (PPAR-gamma receptor antagonist) blocked the antinociceptive effect of 15d-PGJ(2) in the TMJ. In addition, the antinociceptive effect of 15d-PGJ(2) was also blocked by naloxone suggesting the involvement of peripheral opioids in the process. Confirming this hypothesis pre-treatment with kappa, delta, but not mu receptor antagonists significantly reduced the antinociceptive effect of 15d-PGJ(2) in the TMJ. Similarly to opioid agonists, the 15d-PGJ(2) antinociceptive action depends on the nitric oxide (NO)/guanilate cyclase (cGMP)/ATP-sensitive potassium channel blocker(K(+)(ATP)) channel pathway since it was prevented by the pre-treatment with the inhibitors of nitric oxide synthase (NOS; aminoguanidine), cGMP (ODQ), or the K(+)(ATP) (glibenclamide). In addition, 15d-PGJ(2) (100 ng/TMJ) inhibits 5-HT-induced TMJ hypernociception. Besides, TMJ treated with 15d-PGJ(2) showed lower vascular permeability, assessed by Evan's Blue extravasation, and also lower neutrophil migration induced by carrageenan administration. Taken together, these results demonstrate that 15d-PGJ(2) has a potential peripheral antinociceptive and anti-inflammatory effect in the TMJ via PPAR-gamma activation. The results also suggest that 15d-PGJ(2) induced-peripheral antinociceptive response in the TMJ is mediated by kappa/delta opioid receptors by the activation of the intracellular l-arginine/NO/cGMP/K(+)(ATP) channel pathway. The pharmacological properties of the peripheral administration of 15d-PGJ(2) highlight the potential use of this PPAR-gamma agonist on TMJ inflammatory pain conditions.
To better understand the mechanisms through which non-painful and painful stimuli evoke behavior, new resources to dissect the complex circuits engaged by subsets of primary afferent neurons are required. This is especially true to understand the consequences of injury, when reorganization of central nervous system circuits likely contributes to the persistence of pain. Here we describe a transgenic mouse line (ZWX) in which there is Cre-recombinase-dependent expression of a transneuronal tracer, wheat germ agglutinin (WGA), in primary somatic or visceral afferent neurons, but only after transection of their peripheral axons. The latter requirement allows for both regional and temporal control of tracer expression, even in the adult. Using a variety of Cre lines to target WGA transport to subpopulations of sensory neurons, here we demonstrate the extent to which myelinated and unmyelinated &quot;pain&quot; fibers (nociceptors) engage different spinal cord circuits. We found significant convergence (i.e., manifest as WGA-transneuronal labeling) of unmyelinated afferents, including the TRPV1-expressing subset, and myelinated afferents to NK1-receptor-expressing neurons of lamina I. By contrast, PKCgamma interneurons of inner lamina II only receive a myelinated afferent input. This differential distribution of WGA labeling in the spinal cord indicates that myelinated and unmyelinated sensory neurons target different and spatially segregated populations of postsynaptic neurons. On the other hand, we show that neurons of deeper laminae (III-V) receive direct (i.e., monosynaptic) inputs from myelinated afferents and polysynaptic input from unmyelinated afferents. Taken together, our results indicate that peripheral sensory information is transmitted to the central nervous system both through segregated and convergent pathways.
Neurons restore their function in response to external or internal perturbations and maintain neuronal or network stability through a homeostatic scaling mechanism. Homeostatic responses at synapses along the auditory system would be important for adaptation to normal and abnormal fluctuations in the sensory environment. We investigated at the electron microscopic level and after postembedding immunogold labeling whether projection neurons in the cochlear nucleus responded to modifications of auditory nerve activity. After unilaterally reducing the level of auditory inputs by approximately 20 dB by monaural earplugging, auditory nerve synapses on bushy cells somata and basal dendrites of fusiform cells of the ventral and dorsal cochlear nucleus, respectively, upregulated GluR3 AMPA receptor subunit, while inhibitory synapses decreased the expression of GlyRalpha1 subunit. These changes in expression levels were fully reversible once the earplug was removed, indicating that activity affects the trafficking of receptors at synapses. Excitatory synapses on apical dendrites of fusiform cells (parallel fibers) with different synaptic AMPA receptor subunit composition, were not affected by sound attenuation, as the expression levels of AMPA receptor subunits were the same as in normal hearing littermates. GlyRalpha1 subunit expression at inhibitory synapses on apical dendrites of fusiform cells was also found unaffected. Furthermore, fusiform and bushy cells of the contralateral side to the earplugging upregulated the GluR3 subunit at auditory nerve synapses. These results show that cochlear nucleus neurons innervated by the auditory nerve, are able to respond to small changes in sound levels by redistributing specific AMPA and glycine receptor subunits.
Huntington's disease (HD) is characterized clinically by chorea, psychiatric disturbances, and dementia, while it is characterized pathologically by neuronal inclusions as well as striatal and cortical neurodegeneration. The neurodegeneration arises from the loss of long projection neurons in the cortex and striatum. In this study, we investigated the role of apoptosis signal-regulating kinase 1 (Ask1) in the pathogenesis of HD. We analyzed the expression of Ask1 and huntingtin (htt) within the striatum and cortex and also examined the interaction of Ask1 with htt fragments in HD (R6/2) mice. Additionally, we inhibited Ask1 and analyzed the resulting changes in brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) expression, motor function, and striatal atrophy. Ask1 activity was blocked using an Ask1 antibody raised against the C-terminus of the Ask1 protein. The anti-Ask1 antibody was infused into the striatum of the HD mice for four weeks using a micro-osmotic pump. The levels of Ask1 protein and endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress were increased in HD mice. Binding of inactivated Ask1 to htt fragments was more prevalent in the cytosol than the nucleus of cortical neurons. Binding of inactivated Ask1 to htt fragments prevented translocation of the htt fragments into the nucleus, resulting in an improvement in motor dysfunction and atrophy. In the normal state, active Ask1 may help htt fragments enter the nucleus, while inactivated Ask1 hinders this translocation by binding to but not releasing fragmented htt into the nucleus. We propose that Ask1 may interact with htt fragments and subsequently induce ER stress. BDNF depletion may be prevented by targeting Ask1; this would decrease ER stress and possibly ameliorate behavioral or anatomical abnormalities that accompany HD. Therefore, regulating the amounts and activity of the Ask1 protein is a novel strategy for treatment of HD.
Extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERK1 and ERK2) are phosphorylated in the nervous system after somatic or visceral stimulation or inflammation and play roles in central sensitization and pain hypersensitivity. ERK1/2 activation with cyclophosphamide (CYP)-induced cystitis has been demonstrated in urinary bladder and inhibitors of ERK1/2 phosphorylation reduce CYP-induced bladder hyperreflexia. In this study, we determined pERK1/2 expression and regulation in lumbosacral dorsal root ganglia (DRG) and spinal cord with CYP-induced cystitis (4 h, 48 h, chronic) using Western blotting and immunohistochemical techniques. Phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated kinases (pERK1/2) expression was significantly (P&lt; or =0.01) upregulated in L6 and S1 DRG with CYP-induced cystitis with the greatest upregulation occurring at 4 h. No changes in pERK1/2 expression were observed in L1, L2 or L5 DRG or in any spinal cord segment examined (L1, L2, L5-S1) with CYP-induced cystitis. Cytoplasmic pERK1/2-immunoreactivity (IR) and pericellular pERK1/2-IR was observed in all DRG examined from control rats and cytoplasmic pERK1/2-IR was significantly (P&lt; or =0.01) increased in L6 and S1 DRG with 4 and 48 h CYP-induced cystitis. In contrast, pericellular pERK1/2-IR in DRG was not regulated by CYP-induced cystitis. A small percentage of bladder afferent cells in lumbosacral DRG expressed pERK1/2-IR in control rats; however, CYP-induced cystitis (48 h) significantly (P&lt; or =0.01) increased the percentage of bladder afferent cells in the L6 and S1 DRG exhibiting pERK1/2-IR. These studies suggest that activation of the ERK pathway in lumbosacral DRG may play a role in neuroplasticity in micturition reflexes with CYP-induced cystitis.
Adult hippocampal cell proliferation (HCP) has been associated with psychopathology, especially depression. However, it is controversial whether a constitutively low rate of HCP is a trait predisposing an individual to psychopathology or whether HCP varies with the subject's affective state. We made use of a so-far neglected measure of affect, namely ultrasonic vocalizations, to gain new insights into the relationship of HCP and affect. Rats emit distinct types of ultrasonic vocalizations, which serve as situation-dependent affective signals. In appetitive situations, rats produce 50-kHz-calls, whereas 22-kHz-calls occur in aversive situations. We applied a standardized protocol of repeated tickling and assessed tickling-induced ultrasonic vocalizations as an index of the animals affect. Stereological quantifications of 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) and proliferating-cells-nuclear-antigen (PCNA) immunolabeled cells were used to estimate the rate of cell proliferation in the subventricular zone and the subgranular zone of the dentate gyrus in the hippocampus. The rate of cell proliferation was compared between the groups of tickled vs. non-tickled rats and between subgroups of tickled rats defined by the effect of tickling on ultrasonic vocalizations. Tickling induced ultrasonic vocalizations in a subject-dependent manner. HCP correlated positively with appetitive 50-kHz-calls, but negatively with aversive 22-kHz-calls in individual animals, while cell proliferation in the subventricular zone was not associated with the emission of ultrasonic vocalizations. Repeated tickling did not change HCP in all rats, but increased HCP in the subgroup of rats, which experienced this procedure as appetitive, i.e. in rats emitting high numbers of 50-kHz-calls or low numbers of 22-kHz-calls. Together, these data indicate that the effect of tickling on HCP depends on an interaction between a predisposing trait and stimulation-dependent variations of the subject's affective state.
Phosphodiesterases (PDEs) are important regulators of signal transduction processes. While much is known about the function of cyclic GMP-specific PDEs in the retina, much less is known about the closely related, cyclic AMP-specific PDEs. The purpose of the present study is to characterize and localize PDE4 within the adult rat retina. We have used Western blotting, RT-PCR, and immunohistochemistry together with retrograde labeling to determine the presence and location of each PDE4 subtype. Western blot analysis revealed that multiple isoforms of PDE4A, B, and D subtypes are present within the retina, whereas the PDE4C subtype was absent. These data were confirmed by RT-PCR. Using immunohistochemistry we show that all three PDE4s are abundantly expressed within the retina where they all colocalize with retrograde-labeled retinal ganglion cells, as well as bipolar cells, horizontal cells, and cholinergic amacrine cells, whereas Mller cells lack PDE4 expression. Uniquely, PDE4B was expressed by the inner and outer segments of rod photoreceptors as well as their terminals within the outer plexiform layer. Collectively, our results demonstrate that PDE4s are abundantly expressed throughout the rodent retina and this study provides the framework for further functional studies.
Traumatic human spinal cord injury (SCI) causes devastating and long-term hardships. These are due to the irreparable primary mechanical injury and secondary injury cascade. In particular, oligodendrocyte cell death, white matter axon damage, spared axon demyelination, and the ensuing dysfunction in action potential conduction lead to the initial deficits and impair functional recovery. For these reasons, and that oligodendrocyte and axon survival may be related, various neuroprotective strategies after spinal cord injury are being investigated. We previously demonstrated that oligodendrocytes in the adult rat epicenter ventrolateral funiculus (VLF) express 3'-5'-cyclic adenosine monophosphate-dependent phosphodiesterase 4 (PDE4) subtypes and that their death was attenuated up to 3 days after contusive cervical SCI when rolipram, a specific inhibitor of PDE4, was administered. Here, we report that (1) there are more oligodendrocyte somata in the adult rat epicenter VLF, (2) descending and ascending axonal conductivity in the VLF improves, and that (3) there are fewer hindlimb footfall errors during grid-walking at 5 weeks after contusive cervical SCI when rolipram is delivered for 2 weeks. This is the first demonstration of improved descending and ascending long-tract axonal conductivity across a SCI with this pharmacological approach. Since descending long-tract axonal conductivity did not return to normal, further evaluations of the pharmacokinetics and therapeutic window of rolipram as well as optimal combinations are necessary before consideration for neuroprotection in humans with SCI.
The embryonic mid-hindbrain organizer, which is composed of a transient cell population in the brainstem, controls the development of dopaminergic and serotonergic neurons. Different genes determining the position and activity of this embryonic structure have been implicated in dopamine- and serotonin-associated disorders. Mouse mutants with a caudally shifted mid-hindbrain organizer, are hyperactive, show increased numbers of dopaminergic neurons and a reduction in serotonergic cells. In the present study we used these mutants to gain insights into the genetic and developmental mechanisms underlying motor activity and the response to psychostimulants. To this end, we studied the motor activity of these animals after exposure to methylphenidate and amphetamine and characterized their dopaminergic and serotonergic innervation. Saline-treated mutants showed increased locomotion, more stereotypic behavior and a decrease in rearing compared to wild-type mice. This baseline level of activity was similar to behaviors observed in wild-type animals treated with high doses of psychostimulants. In mutants methylphenidate (5 or 30 mg/kg) or amphetamine (2 or 4 mg/kg) did not further increase activity or even caused a decrease of locomotor activity, in contrast to wild-type mice. Fluoxetine (5 or 10 mg/kg) reduced hyperactivity of mutants to levels observed in wild-types. Transmitter measurements, dopamine and serotonin transporter binding assays and autoradiography, indicated a subtle increase in striatal dopaminergic innervation and a marked general decrease of serotonergic innervation in mutants. Taken together, our data suggest that mice with an aberrantly positioned mid-hindbrain organizer show altered sensitivity to psychostimulants and that an increase of serotonergic neurotransmission reverses their hyperactivity. We conclude that the mid-hindbrain organizer, by orchestrating the formation of dopaminergic and serotonergic neurons, is an essential developmental parameter of locomotor activity and psychostimulant response.
The purpose of this work is to study the effect of catalpol, an iridoid from Rehmannia glutinosa on neurodegenerative changes induced by beta-amyloid peptide Abeta(25-35) or Abeta(25-35)+ibotenic acid and the underlying mechanism. Results showed that catalpol significantly improved the memory deficits in the neurodegenerative mouse model produced by injection of Abeta(25-35)+ibotenic acid to the nucleus magnocellularis basalis, yet it is neither a cholinesterase inhibitor nor a muscarinic (M) receptor agonist. Instead, the choline acetyl transferase (ChAT) activity and the M receptor density in brain were significantly decreased in the model mice and catalpol could significantly elevate their levels. Furthermore, the brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) content in brain was significantly decreased in the model mice and catalpol elevated it to normal level (83%+/-3% and 102%+/-2% of normal respectively). There is a significant positive correlation between BDNF content and memory. Primary culture of forebrain neurons revealed that aggregated Abeta(25-35) induced significant decrease of ChAT positive neuron number, neurite outgrowth length, and M receptor density, while catalpol added to the culture medium 2 h prior to Abeta addition showed significant dose dependent protective effect. Notably, 24 h and 48 h after the addition of Abeta to the cultured cells, the BDNF mRNA level in the neurons decreased to 76%+/-7% and 66%+/-3% of control without catalpol treatment, but became 128%+/-17% and 131%+/-23% of control with catalpol treatment. When the action of BDNF was inhibited by k252a in the cultured neurons, the protective effect of catalpol was completely (neurite outgrowth length) or partially (ChAT positive neuron number and the M receptor density) abolished. Taken together, catalpol improves memory and protects the forebrain neurons from neurodegeneration through increasing BDNF expression. Whether catalpol could reverse the neurodegenerative changes already present before its application remains to be further studied.
Changes in transcription levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) response element binding (CREB), Synapsin I, Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CamKII), activity-regulated cytoskeleton-associated protein (Arc), c-jun and c-fos have been associated to several learning paradigms in different brain areas. In this study, we measured mRNA expression in the hippocampus by real time (RT)-PCR mRNA levels of BDNF, CREB, Synapsin I, CamKII, Arc, c-jun and c-fos, during learning and operant conditioning task. Experimental groups were as follows: control (C, the animals never left the bioterium), when the animals reached 50-65% of the expected response (Incompletely Trained, IT), when animals reached 100% of the expected response with a latency time lower than 5 s (Trained, Tr), Box Control of Incompletely Trained (BCIT), animals spent the same time as the IT in the operant conditioning box and Box Control of Trained (BCTr) animals spent the same time as the Tr in the operant conditioning box. All rats were killed at the same time by cervical dislocation 15 min after training and hippocampi were removed and processed. We found increments of mRNA levels of most genes (BDNF, CREB, Synapsin I, Arc, c-jun and c-fos) in IT and Tr groups compared to their box controls, but increments in Tr were smaller compared with IT. These results describe a differential gene expression in the rat hippocampus when the animals are learning and when animals have already learned. Taking together the results presented herein with the known functions of these genes, we propose a link between changes in gene expression in the hippocampus and different degrees of cellular activation and plasticity during learning of an operant conditioning task.
Congenital central hypoventilation syndrome (CCHS) children show cognitive and affective deficits, in addition to state-specific loss of respiratory drive. The caudate nuclei serve motor, cognitive, and affective roles, and show structural deficits in CCHS patients, based on gross voxel-based analytic procedures. However, the magnitude and regional sites of caudate injury in CCHS are unclear. We assessed global caudate nuclei volumes with manual volumetric procedures, and regional volume differences with three-dimensional surface morphometry in 14 CCHS (mean age+/-SD: 15.1+/-2.3 years; 8 male) and 31 control children (15.1+/-2.4 years; 17 male) using brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Two high-resolution T1-weighted image series were collected using a 3.0 Tesla MRI scanner; images were averaged and reoriented (rigid-body transformation) to common space. Both left and right caudate nuclei were outlined in the reoriented images, and global volumes calculated; surface models were derived from manually-outlined caudate structures. Global caudate nuclei volume differences between groups were evaluated using a multivariate analysis of covariance (covariates: age, gender, and total intracranial volume). Both left and right caudate nuclei volumes were significantly reduced in CCHS over control subjects (left, 4293.45+/-549.05 vs. 4626.87+/-593.41 mm(3), P&lt;0.006; right, 4376.29+/-565.42 vs. 4747.81+/-578.13 mm(3), P&lt;0.004). Regional deficits in CCHS caudate volume appeared bilaterally, in the rostral head, ventrolateral mid, and caudal body. Damaged caudate nuclei may contribute to CCHS neuropsychological and motor deficits; hypoxic processes, or maldevelopment in the condition may underlie the injury.
Recent neurophysiological studies indicate a role for reticulospinal neurons of the pontomedullary reticular formation (PMRF) in motor preparation and goal-directed reaching in the monkey. Although the macaque monkey is an important model for such investigations, little is known regarding the organization of the PMRF in the monkey. In the present study, we investigated the distribution of reticulospinal neurons in the macaque. Bilateral injections of wheat germ agglutinin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase (WGA-HRP) were made into the cervical spinal cord. A wide band of retrogradely labeled cells was found in the gigantocellular reticular nucleus (Gi) and labeled cells continued rostrally into the caudal pontine reticular nucleus (PnC) and into the oral pontine reticular nucleus (PnO). Additional retrograde tracing studies following unilateral cervical spinal cord injections of cholera toxin subunit B revealed that there were more ipsilateral (60%) than contralateral (40%) projecting cells in Gi, while an approximately 50:50 ratio contralateral to ipsilateral split was found in PnC and more contralateral projections arose from PnO. Reticulospinal neurons in PMRF ranged widely in size from over 50 microm to under 25 microm across the major somatic axis. Labeled giant cells (soma diameters greater than 50 microm) comprised a small percentage of the neurons and were found in Gi, PnC and PnO. The present results define the origins of the reticulospinal system in the monkey and provide an important foundation for future investigations of the anatomy and physiology of this system in primates.
T1R1/T1R3, taste-metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) 4 and other taste receptors have been implicated in umami taste perceptionT1R1/T1R3 has also been identified as an L-amino acid receptor. We investigated the possibility that taste-mGluR4 receptors may also play a role in the taste of amino acids in Sprague-Dawley rats using conditioned taste aversion methods. Specifically, we examined whether a taste aversion generalized between L-monosodium glutamate (MSG) and one of three amino acids (glycine, L-serine, and L-arginine), and whether (RS)-alpha-cyclopropyl-4-phosphonophenylglycine (CPPG), a group III mGluR selective antagonist with a strong binding affinity for mGluR4 receptors, can impact stimulus generalization. Rats showed cross-generalization between MSG and all three amino acids (all mixed with amiloride to block the taste of sodium), although less so for L-arginine than the other two amino acids, suggesting that all of the amino acids shared at least some taste qualities with MSG. However, when 1 mM CPPG was mixed with these amino acids, the strength of the learned taste aversions and cross-generalization for all but glycine were either decreased or increased. The increase in generalization induced by CPPG indicated that the antagonist did not simply reduce the intensity of the stimulus experience but also changed the qualities of the sensory experience. These findings suggest that multiple receptors are involved in amino acid taste and that taste-mGluR4 receptors contribute to the taste of MSG and at least some l-amino acids.
This study investigated the effects of aerobic capacity on brain structure and memory performance. A sample of 33 healthy young subjects completed (i) assessment of aerobic capacity based on blood-lactate concentration, (ii) structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scanning and analysis of grey matter density using voxel-based morphometry (VBM) and (iii) a range of memory tests. Memory performance was not significantly associated with aerobic capacity. After adjusting for effects of age, gender and total intracranial volume, cortical grey matter density in the right anterior insula was strongly correlated with aerobic capacity. These findings are in line with studies implicating the insula in the cortical control of cardiovascular processes during both exercise and autonomic arousal. Interindividual differences in aerobic capacity are thus reflected in structural differences in brain regions involved in cardiovascular control, resembling structural changes associated with certain cognitive or motor skills.
The orientation of spatial attention via saccades is modulated by a pathway from the substantia nigra pars reticularis (SNr) to the superior colliculus, which enhances the ability to respond to novel stimuli. However, the algorithm whereby the SNr translates visual input to saccade-related information is still unknown. We recorded extracellular single-unit responses of 343 SNr cells to visual stimuli in anesthetized cats. Depending on the size, velocity and direction of the visual stimulus, SNr neurons responded by either increasing or decreasing their firing rate. Using artificial neuronal networks, visual SNr neurons could be classified into distinct groups. Some of the units showed a clear preference for one specific combination of direction and velocity (simple neurons), while other SNr neurons were sensitive to the direction (direction-tuned neurons) or the velocity (velocity-tuned neurons) of the movement. Furthermore, a subset of SNr neurons exhibited a narrow inhibitory/excitatory domain in the velocity/direction plane with an opposing surround (concentric neurons). According to our results, spatiotemporally represented visual information may determine the discharge pattern of the SNr. We suggest that the SNr utilizes spatiotemporal properties of the visual information to generate vector-based commands, which could modulate the activity of the superior colliculus and enhance or inhibit the reflexive initiation of complex and accurate saccades.
The recent characterization of excitatory and inhibitory synaptic receptive fields in rat auditory cortex laid the basis for further investigation of the roles of synaptic excitation and inhibition in cortical computation and plasticity. The mouse is an increasingly important model system because of the wide range of genetic tools available for it. Here we present the first in vivo whole-cell voltage-clamp measurements of synaptic excitation and inhibition in the mouse cortex. We find that a substantial population of auditory cortical neurons receives balanced synaptic excitation and inhibition, whose amplitude ratios and relative time courses remain approximately constant across tone frequency. We conclude that the synaptic mechanisms underlying tone-evoked auditory cortical responses in mice closely resemble those in rats, supporting the mouse as a suitable model for synaptic processing in auditory cortex.
In many everyday settings, the relationship between our choices and their potentially rewarding outcomes is probabilistic and dynamic. In addition, the difficulty of the choices can vary widely. Although a large body of theoretical and empirical evidence suggests that dopamine mediates rewarded learning, the influence of dopamine in probabilistic and dynamic rewarded learning remains unclear. We adapted a probabilistic rewarded learning task originally used to study firing rates of dopamine cells in primate substantia nigra pars compacta [Morris G, Nevet A, Arkadir D, Vaadia E, Bergman H (2006) Midbrain dopamine neurons encode decisions for future action. Nat Neurosci 9:1057-1063] for use as a reversal learning task with humans. We sought to investigate how the dopamine depletion in Parkinson's disease (PD) affects probabilistic reward learning and adaptation to a reversal in reward contingencies. Over the course of 256 trials subjects learned to choose the more favorable from among pairs of images with small or large differences in reward probabilities. During a subsequent otherwise identical reversal phase, the reward probability contingencies for the stimuli were reversed. Seventeen PD patients of mild to moderate severity were studied off of their dopaminergic medications and compared to 15 age-matched controls. Compared to controls, PD patients had distinct pre- and post-reversal deficiencies depending upon the difficulty of the choices they had to learn. The patients also exhibited compromised adaptability to the reversal. A computational model of the subjects' trial-by-trial choices demonstrated that the adaptability was sensitive to the gain with which patients weighted pre-reversal feedback. Collectively, the results implicate the nigral dopaminergic system in learning to make choices in environments with probabilistic and dynamic reward contingencies.
In the present study, we first investigated the effect of single homocysteine administration on consolidation of short- and long-term memories of inhibitory avoidance task in Wistar rats. We also measured brain-derived neurotrophic factor levels in the hippocampus and parietal cortex of rats. The influence of pretreatment with folic acid on behavioral and biochemical effects elicited by homocysteine was also studied. Wistar rats were subjected to a folic acid or saline pretreatment from their 22(nd) to 28(th) day of life; 12 h later they were submitted to a single administration of homocysteine or saline. For motor activity and memory evaluation we performed open-field and inhibitory avoidance tasks. Hippocampus and parietal cortex were obtained for brain-derived neurotrophic factor immunocontent determination. Results showed that homocysteine impaired short- and long-term memories and reduced brain-derived neurotrophic factor levels in the hippocampus. Pretreatment with folic acid prevented both the memory deficit and the reduction in the brain-derived neurotrophic factor immunocontent induced by homocysteine injection. Further studies are required to determine the entire mechanism by which folic acid acts and its potential therapeutic use for memory impairment prevention in homocystinuric patients.
Frogs were treated with a single dose of gentamicin administered intraotically to produce severe degeneration of posterior semicircular canal hair cells and to evaluate the time course of functional damage and recovery both at pre- and postsynaptic level. In isolated canal preparations the endoampullar potential, which reflects the summed receptor potentials of crista hair cells, was progressively reduced in amplitude and completely abolished 6 days after gentamicin treatment. At this time the crista epithelium was devoid of hair cells. The recovery of the endoampullar potential began around 9 days after the ototoxic insult and its amplitude progressively increased to reach, after 20 days, values close to those observed in control experiments. The endoampullar potential amplitude was related to the degree of hair cell regeneration in the crista epithelium. Consistent with the presynaptic damage, the slow generator potential (representing the summed miniature excitatory postsynaptic potential [mEPSP] activity of all posterior nerve fibres) and the resting and evoked spike discharge recorded from the whole ampullar nerve were abolished 6 days after gentamicin treatment. The recovery of the background and evoked afferent activity showed different behaviours. Background spike activity became detectable around 8 days after the ototoxic insult, but was not modulated by canal stimulation at this time, and no generator potential was detected. Moreover, the resting spike frequency fully recovered and reached control values around 15 days after gentamicin treatment, whereas the evoked activity attained normal values only 20 days after the ototoxic insult. These results were confirmed by intracellular recordings from single afferent fibres of the ampullar nerve in intact labyrinth preparations. Absence of any resting and evoked discharge was the most common pattern observed in the early period from 7 to 8 days after gentamicin treatment. Fifty-five percent of impaled afferents were silent while the others showed low resting frequencies of mEPSPs and spikes, and were unresponsive to canal rotation. In the intermediate period from 14 to 15 days after gentamicin treatment, background mEPSP and spike frequencies approached those evaluated in control experiments, but the frequencies of the evoked mEPSPs and spikes were clearly lower than in controls. In the late period, from 18 to 20 days after the ototoxic insult, the impaled afferents showed normal evoked mEPSP and spike frequencies. The present data indicate that the frog semicircular canal completely recovers its pre- and postsynaptic activity following severe ototoxic insult. During the regeneration process, the cytoneural junction regains function and the resting discharge reappears before recovery of mechanoelectrical transduction.
Adenosine is a neuromodulator implicated in nervous system development and plasticity and its effects are mediated by inhibitory (A(1), A(3)) and excitatory (A(2a), A(2b)) receptors. The role of adenosine in the synaptic activity depends mainly on a balanced activation of A(1) and A(2a) receptors which are activated by various ranges of adenosine concentrations. Herein, we investigated the expression of A(1) and A(2a) receptors and also the accumulation of cAMP in the superior colliculus at different stages of development. Furthermore, we examined the effects of an acute in vivo blockade of adenosine deaminase during the critical period when the elimination of misplaced axons/terminals takes place with a simultaneous fine tuning of terminal arbors into appropriate terminal zones. Lister Hooded rats ranging from postnatal days (PND) 0-70 were used for ontogeny studies. Our results indicate that A(1) expression in the visual layers of the superior colliculus is higher until PND 28, while A(2a) expression increases after PND 28 in a complementary developmental pattern. Accordingly, the incubation of collicular slices with 5'-N-ethylcarboxamido-adenosine, a non-specific adenosine receptor agonist, showed a significant reduction in cAMP accumulation at PND 14 and an increase in adults. For the anatomical studies, the uncrossed retinotectal projections were traced after the intraocular injection of horseradish peroxidase. One group received daily injections of an adenosine deaminase inhibitor (erythro-9(2-hydroxy-3-nonyl adenine), 10 mg/kg i.p.) between PND 10 and 13, while control groups were treated with vehicle injections (NaCl 0.9%, i.p.). We found that a short-term blockade of adenosine deaminase during the second postnatal week induced an expansion of retinotectal terminal fields in the rostrocaudal axis of the tectum. Taken together, the results suggest that a balance of purinergic A(1) and A(2a) receptors through cAMP signaling plays a pivotal role during the development of topographic order in the retinotectal pathway.
In rodents, a single administration of valproic acid (VPA) in utero leads to developmental delays and lifelong deficits in motor performance, social behavior, and anxiety-like behavior in the offspring. Recently, we have demonstrated that VPA mice show alterations in postnatal growth and development, and deficits in olfactory discrimination and social behavior early in development. Based on behavioral and molecular parallels between VPA rodents and individuals with autism, maternal challenge with VPA has been suggested to be a good animal model of autism. Neuroligins (NLGN) are a family of postsynaptic cell-adhesion molecules that play a role in synaptic maturation through association with their presynaptic partners, the neurexins (NRXN). Both NLGNs and NRXN members have been implicated in genetic studies of autism. In the present study, we examined changes at the level of expression of NLGN and NRXN mRNAs in the adult brain from mice exposed in utero to VPA. Mouse brain tissue was processed using in situ hybridization and analyzed with densitometry to examine expression of three NLGN genes (NLGN1, NLGN2, and NLGN3) and three NRXN genes (NRXN1, NRXN2, and NRXN3). Expression levels of NLGN1, NLGN2, NRXN1, NRXN2, and NRXN3 were observed to be similar in VPA and control mice. NLGN3 mRNA expression was found to be significantly lower in the VPA mice relative to control animals in hippocampal subregions, cornu ammonis (CA1) and dentate gyrus, and somatosensory cortex. This lowered expression may be linked to autistic-like behavioral phenotype observed in the VPA mice.
Endocannabinoids have a variety of effects by acting through cannabinoid 1 (CB1) receptors located throughout the brain. However, since CB1 receptors are located presynaptically, and because the strength of downstream coupling varies with brain region, expression studies alone do not provide a firm basis for interpreting sites of action. Likewise, to date most functional studies have used high doses of drugs, which can bias results toward non-relevant adverse effects, and which mask more behaviourally-relevant actions. Here we use a low, orexigenic dose of the full CB1 agonist, CP55940, to map responsive brain regions using the complementary techniques of pharmacological-challenge functional magnetic resonance imaging (phMRI) and immediate-early gene activity. Areas of interest demonstrate a drug interaction when the CB1 receptor inverse agonist, rimonabant, is co-administered. This analysis highlights the corticostriatal-hypothalamic pathway, which is central to the motivational drive to eat.
Cervical spinal cord hemisection at C2 leads to paralysis of the ipsilateral hemidiaphragm in rats. Respiratory function of the paralyzed hemidiaphragm can be restored by activating a latent respiratory motor pathway in adult rats. This pathway is called the crossed phrenic pathway and the restored activity in the paralyzed hemidiaphragm is referred to as crossed phrenic activity. The latent neural pathway is not latent in neonatal rats as shown by the spontaneous expression of crossed phrenic activity. However, the anatomy of the pathway in neonatal rats is still unknown. In the present study, we hypothesized that the crossed phrenic pathway may be different anatomically in neonatal and adult rats. To delineate this neural pathway in neonates, we injected wheat germ agglutinin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase (WGA-HRP), a retrograde transsynaptic tracer, into the phrenic nerve ipsilateral to hemisection. We also injected cholera toxin subunit B-horseradish peroxidase (BHRP) into the ipsilateral hemidiaphragm following hemisection in other animals to determine if there are midline-crossing phrenic dendrites involved in the crossed phrenic pathway in neonatal rats. The WGA-HRP labeling was observed only in the ipsilateral phrenic nucleus and ipsilateral rostral ventral respiratory group (rVRG) in the postnatal day (P) 2, P7, and P28 hemisected rats. Bilateral labeling of rVRG neurons was shown in P35 rats. The BHRP study showed that many phrenic dendrites cross the midline in P2 neonatal rats at both rostral and caudal parts of the phrenic nucleus. There was a marked reduction of crossing dendrites observed in P7 and P28 animals and no crossing dendrites observed in P35 rats. The present results suggest that the crossed phrenic pathway in neonatal rats involves the parent axons from ipsilateral rVRG premotor neurons that cross at the level of obex as well as decussating axon collaterals that cross over the spinal cord midline to innervate ipsilateral phrenic motoneurons following C2 hemisection. In addition, midline-crossing dendrites of the ipsilateral phrenic motoneurons may also contribute to the crossed phrenic pathway in neonates.
The amygdala has a well-established role in stress, anxiety, and aversive learning, and anxiolytic and anxiogenic agents are thought to exert their behavioral actions via the amygdala. However, despite extensive behavioral data, the effects of noradrenergic anxiogenic drugs on neuronal activity within the amygdala have not been examined. The present experiments examined how administration of the anxiogenic drug yohimbine affects spontaneous and evoked neuronal activity in the basolateral amygdala (BLA) of rats. Yohimbine produced both excitatory and inhibitory effects on neurons of the BLA, with an increase in spontaneous activity being the predominant response in the lateral and basomedial nuclei of the BLA. Furthermore, yohimbine tended to facilitate neuronal responses evoked by electrical stimulation of the entorhinal cortex, with this facilitation seen more often in lateral and basomedial nuclei of the BLA. These data are the first to examine the effects of the anxiogenic agent yohimbine on BLA neuronal activity, and suggest that neurons in specific subnuclei of the amygdala exhibit unique responses to administration of such pharmacological agents.
It has been suggested that different brain areas are involved in the modulation and expression of fear and anxiety. In the present study we investigated these potential differences by using the fear-potentiated-startle (FPS) and light-enhanced-startle (LES) paradigms to differentiate between fear and anxiety, respectively. Male Wistar rats were tested in the FPS and LES paradigm and perfused 1 h after the test session. Fos immunoreactivity (IR) was quantified in 21 brain areas and compared between FPS, LES and four control conditions. Both FPS and LES procedures significantly enhanced the acoustic startle response. A principal component analysis of Fos-IR-data showed that 70% of the changes in Fos-IR could be explained by three independent components: an arousal-component, identifying brain areas known to be activated under conditions of vigilance, arousal and stress, a LES- and an FPS-component. The LES component comprised the septohippocampal system and functionally interrelated areas including nucleus accumbens, anterior cingulate cortex, lateral habenula and supramammillary areas, but not the dorsolateral part of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. The central amygdaloid nucleus and the dorsolateral part of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis loaded exclusively on the FPS component. Analysis of the separate brain areas revealed significantly higher Fos-IR in LES relative to FPS in the anterior cingulate cortex, nucleus accumbens shell, lateral septum, lateral habenula and area postrema. We conclude that the neural circuitry activated during FPS and LES shows clear differences. In anxiety as induced by LES, activation of the septohippocampal system and related areas seems to play a major role. In fear as induced by FPS, the central amygdaloid nucleus and the dorsolateral part of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis loaded on the same component, but Fos-IR observed in these brain regions did not differentiate between anxiety and fear. Furthermore, principal-component analysis appears a useful tool in detecting and describing correlated changes in patterns of neuronal activity.
Protein arginine N-methyltransferase (PRMT) 8 was first discovered from a database search for genes harboring four conserved methyltransferase motifs, which shares more than 80% homology to PRMT1 in amino acid [Lee J, Sayegh J, Daniel J, Clarke S, Bedford MT (2005) PRMT8, a new membrane-bound tissue-specific member of the protein arginine methyltransferase family. J Biol Chem 280:32890-32896]. Interestingly, its tissue distribution is strikingly restricted to mouse CNS. To characterize the function in the CNS neurons, we raised an antiserum against PRMT8 to perform immunohistochemistry (IHC) and Western blot analysis. By IHC, the immunoreactivity of endogenous PRMT8 was broadly distributed in the CNS neurons with markedly intense signals in the cerebellum, hippocampal formation, and cortex, but was not detected in the cerebellar granular layer. In some subset of the neurons, the immunoreactivity was observed in the dendrites and axon bundles. The subcellular localization of the immunoreactivity was dominantly nuclear, arguing against the original report that exogenously expressed PRMT8 localizes to the plasma membrane via the N-terminal myristoylation. A series of the exogenously expressed proteins with different in-frame translation initiation codons was tested for comparison with the endogenous protein in molecular size. The third initiator codon produced the protein that was equivalent in size to the endogenous and showed a similar localizing pattern in PC12 cells. In conclusion, PRMT8 is a neuron-specific nuclear enzyme and the N-terminus does not contain the glycine end for myristoylation target.
Transcutaneous electric nerve stimulation (TENS) is widely used for the treatment of pain. TENS produces an opioid-mediated antinociception that utilizes the rostroventromedial medulla (RVM). Similarly, antinociception evoked from the periaqueductal grey (PAG) is opioid-mediated and includes a relay in the RVM. Therefore, we investigated whether the ventrolateral or dorsolateral PAG mediates antinociception produced by TENS in rats. Paw and knee joint mechanical withdrawal thresholds were assessed before and after knee joint inflammation (3% kaolin/carrageenan), and after TENS stimulation (active or sham). Cobalt chloride (CoCl(2); 5 mM) or vehicle was microinjected into the ventrolateral periaqueductal grey (vlPAG) or dorsolateral periaqueductal grey (dlPAG) prior to treatment with TENS. Either high (100 Hz) or low (4 Hz) frequency TENS was then applied to the inflamed knee for 20 min. Active TENS significantly increased withdrawal thresholds of the paw and knee joint in the group microinjected with vehicle when compared to thresholds prior to TENS (P&lt;0.001) or to sham TENS (P&lt;0.001). The increases in withdrawal thresholds normally observed after TENS were prevented by microinjection of CoCl(2) into the vlPAG, but not the dlPAG prior to TENS and were significantly lower than controls treated with TENS (P&lt;0.001). In a separate group of animals, microinjection of CoCl(2) into the vlPAG temporarily reversed the decreased mechanical withdrawal threshold suggesting a role for the vlPAG in the facilitation of joint pain. No significant difference was observed for dlPAG. We hypothesize that the effects of TENS are mediated through the vlPAG that sends projections through the RVM to the spinal cord to produce an opioid-mediated analgesia.

Neural activity can induce persistent strengthening or weakening of synapses, known as long-term potentiation (LTP) or long-term depression (LTD), respectively. As potential cellular mechanisms underlying learning and memory, LTP and LTD are generally regarded as synapse-specific &quot;imprints&quot; of activity, although there is evidence in vitro that LTP/LTD may spread to adjacent synapses. Here, we report that LTP and LTD induced in vivo at retinotectal synapses of Xenopus tadpoles undergo rapid long-range retrograde spread from the optic tectum to the retina, resulting in potentiation and depression of bipolar cell synapses on the dendrites of retinal ganglion cells, respectively. The retrograde spread of LTP and LTD required retrograde signaling initiated by brain-derived neurotrophic factor and nitric oxide in the tectum, respectively. Such bidirectional adjustment of the strength of input synapses in accordance to that of output synapses may serve to coordinate developmental refinement and learning functions of neural circuits.
Numerous studies have shown that sleep enhances memory for motor skills learned through practice. Motor skills can, however, also be learned through observation, a process possibly involving the mirror neuron system. We investigated whether motor skill enhancement through prior observation requires sleep to follow the observation, either immediately or after a delay, to consolidate the procedural memory. Sequence-specific fingertapping performance was tested in 64 healthy subjects in a balanced design. Electromyography verified absence of overt or subliminal hand muscle activations during observation. The results show that immediate sleep is necessary for the enhancement of a motor skill through prior observation. Immediate sleep improved the speed of subsequent performance by 22 +/- 11% (mean +/- SEM) (P = 0.04) and reduced the error rate by 42 +/- 19% (P = 0.02). In contrast, no performance gains occurred if sleep was initiated more than 12 h after observation. A second study on 64 subjects ruled out explicit familiarity with the sequence or the spatiotemporal rhythm of the sequence to underlie performance improvements. The sleep-dependent observational motor learning enhancement is at least similar to that previously reported for implicit and declarative memory. The apparent prerequisite of observing real movements indicates that subjects transfer experience obtained through observation of movements to subsequent self-initiated movements, in the absence of practice. Moreover, the consolidation of this transfer requires an early sleep window. These findings could improve learning new motor skills in athletes and children, but also in patients having to remaster skills following stroke or injury.
After pair-bonding, male prairie voles (Microtus ochrogaster) display aggression toward novel females but not toward their female partner. Here we show that this selective aggression in pair-bonded male prairie voles is associated with increased release of vasopressin (AVP) in the anterior hypothalamus (AH). Pharmacological activation of AVP-V1a receptors (V1aR) in the AH induced selective aggression in sexually naive males, whereas V1aR blockade diminished selective aggression in pair-bonded males. Pair-bonded males also showed an increased density in V1aR binding in the AH compared to their sexually naive counterparts and overexpression of V1aR in the AH, by viral vector-mediated gene transfer, facilitated aggression toward novel females. These data demonstrate that AH-AVP is both necessary and sufficient in the regulation of selective aggression associated with pair-bonding. In the second part of this study, we examined the effects of amphetamine (AMPH) exposure on female-directed aggression and revealed the potential role of AH-AVP underlying this behavior. Repeated AMPH administration in sexually naive male prairie voles enhanced V1aR expression in the AH and induced aggression toward a familiar or unfamiliar female. In addition, this AMPH-induced aggression was blocked by intra-AH administration of a V1aR antagonist. Together, our data reveal a socioneurobiological mechanism, highlighting a critical role of AH-AVP in the regulation of aggression induced by pair-bonding or drug experience in socially monogamous male prairie voles.
Emotionally arousing events are typically well remembered, but there is a large interindividual variability for this phenomenon. We have recently shown that a functional deletion variant of ADRA2B, the gene encoding the alpha2b-adrenergic receptor, is related to enhanced emotional memory in healthy humans and enhanced traumatic memory in war victims. Here, we investigated the neural mechanisms of this effect in healthy participants by using fMRI. Carriers of the ADRA2B deletion variant exhibited increased activation of the amygdala during encoding of photographs with negative emotional valence compared with noncarriers of the deletion. Additionally, functional connectivity between amygdala and insula was significantly stronger in deletion carriers. The present findings indicate that the ADRA2B deletion variant is related to increased responsivity and connectivity of brain regions implicated in emotional memory.
Hydrogen sulfide (H2S), a messenger molecule generated by cystathionine gamma-lyase, acts as a physiologic vasorelaxant. Mechanisms whereby H2S signals have been elusive. We now show that H2S physiologically modifies cysteines in a large number of proteins by S-sulfhydration. About 10 to 25% of many liver proteins, including actin, tubulin, and glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH), are sulfhydrated under physiological conditions. Sulfhydration augments GAPDH activity and enhances actin polymerization. Sulfhydration thus appears to be a physiologic posttranslational modification for proteins.
Nitrite, considered a biological waste and toxic product, is being regarded as an important physiological molecule in nitric oxide (NO) biochemistry. Because the interaction of dietary phenolic compounds and nitrite would be kinetically (due to the high concentrations achieved) and thermodynamically (on basis of the redox potentials) feasible in the stomach, we have studied the potential reduction of nitrite by polyphenols present in several dietary sources. By measuring the time courses of *NO production in simulated gastric juice (pH 2), the efficiency of the compounds studied is as follows: Epicatechin-3-O-gallate&gt;quercetin&gt;procyanidin B8 dimer&gt;oleuropein&gt;procyanidin B2 dimer&gt;chlorogenic acid&gt;epicatechin&gt;catechin&gt;procyanidin B5 dimer. The initial rates of *NO production fall in a narrow range (ca. 1-5 microMs(-1)) but the distinct kinetics of the decay of *NO signals suggest that competition reactions for *NO are operative. The proof of concept that, in the presence of nitrite, phenol-containing dietary products induce a strong increase of *NO in the stomach was established in an in vivo experiment with healthy volunteers consuming lettuce, onions, apples, wine, tea, berries and cherries. Moreover, selected mixtures of oleuropein and catechin with low nitrite (1 microM) were shown to induce muscle relaxation of stomach strips in a structure-dependent way. Data presented here brings strong support to the concept that polyphenols consumed in a variety of dietary products, under gastric conditions, reduce nitrite to *NO that, in turn, may exert a biological impact as a local relaxant.
Autism spectrum disorders are characterised by severe deficits in socialisation, communication, and repetitive or unusual behaviours. Increases over time in the frequency of these disorders (to present rates of about 60 cases per 10,000 children) might be attributable to factors such as new administrative classifications, policy and practice changes, and increased awareness. Surveillance and screening strategies for early identification could enable early treatment and improved outcomes. Autism spectrum disorders are highly genetic and multifactorial, with many risk factors acting together. Genes that affect synaptic maturation are implicated, resulting in neurobiological theories focusing on connectivity and neural effects of gene expression. Several treatments might address core and comorbid symptoms. However, not all treatments have been adequately studied. Improved strategies for early identification with phenotypic characteristics and biological markers (eg, electrophysiological changes) might hopefully improve effectiveness of treatment. Further knowledge about early identification, neurobiology of autism, effective treatments, and the effect of this disorder on families is needed.
The open-sea movements of marine animals are affected by the drifting action of currents that, if not compensated for, can produce non-negligible deviations from the correct route towards a given target. Marine turtles are paradigmatic skilful oceanic navigators that are able to reach remote goals at the end of long-distance migrations, apparently overcoming current drift effects. Particularly relevant is the case of leatherback turtles (Dermochelys coriacea), which spend entire years in the ocean, wandering in search of planktonic prey. Recent analyses have revealed how the movements of satellite-tracked leatherbacks in the Indian, Atlantic and Pacific Oceans are strongly dependent on the oceanic currents, up to the point that turtles are often passively transported over long distances. However, leatherbacks are known to return to specific areas to breed every 2-3 years, thus finding their way back home after long periods in the oceanic environment. Here we examine the navigational consequences of the leatherbacks' close association with currents and discuss how the combined reliance on mechanisms of map-based navigation and local orientation cues close to the target may allow leatherbacks to accomplish the difficult task of returning to specific sites after years spent wandering in a moving medium.

During corticogenesis, neural stem cells switch from symmetric to asymmetric divisions to generate intermediate progenitor cells and neurons. Recently published in Cell, Siegenthaler et al. (2009) show that retinoic acid derived from the meninges is a key signal controlling this transition.
Mutations in the gene coding for AIPL1 cause Leber congenital amaurosis (LCA), a severe form of childhood blindness. The severity in disease is reflected in the complete loss of vision and rapid photoreceptor degeneration in the retinas of mice deficient in AIPL1. Our previous observations suggest that rod photoreceptor degeneration in retinas lacking AIPL1 is due to the massive reduction in levels of rod cGMP phosphodiesterase (PDE6) subunits (alpha, beta, and gamma). To date, the crucial link between AIPL1 and the stability of PDE6 subunits is not known. In this study using ex vivo pulse label analysis, we demonstrate that AIPL1 is not involved in the synthesis of PDE6 subunits. However, ex vivo pulse-chase analysis clearly shows that in the absence of AIPL1, rod PDE6 subunits are rapidly degraded by proteasomes. We further demonstrate that this rapid degradation of PDE6 is due to the essential role of AIPL1 in the proper assembly of synthesized individual PDE6 subunits. In addition, using a novel monoclonal antibody generated against AIPL1, we show that the catalytic subunit (alpha) of PDE6 associates with AIPL1 in retinal extracts. Our studies establish that AIPL1 interacts with the catalytic subunit (alpha) of PDE6 and is needed for the proper assembly of functional rod PDE6 subunits.
Collapsin response mediator proteins (CRMPs) specify axon/dendrite fate and axonal growth of neurons through protein-protein interactions. Their functions in presynaptic biology remain unknown. Here, we identify the presynaptic N-type Ca(2+) channel (CaV2.2) as a CRMP-2-interacting protein. CRMP-2 binds directly to CaV2.2 in two regions: the channel domain I-II intracellular loop and the distal C terminus. Both proteins co-localize within presynaptic sites in hippocampal neurons. Overexpression in hippocampal neurons of a CRMP-2 protein fused to enhanced green fluorescent protein caused a significant increase in Ca(2+) channel current density, whereas lentivirus-mediated CRMP-2 knockdown abolished this effect. Interestingly, the increase in Ca(2+) current density was not due to a change in channel gating. Rather, cell surface biotinylation studies showed an increased number of CaV2.2 at the cell surface in CRMP-2-overexpressing neurons. These neurons also exhibited a significant increase in vesicular release in response to a depolarizing stimulus. Depolarization of CRMP-2-enhanced green fluorescent protein-overexpressing neurons elicited a significant increase in release of glutamate compared with control neurons. Toxin block of Ca(2+) entry via CaV2.2 abolished this stimulated release. Thus, the CRMP-2-Ca(2+) channel interaction represents a novel mechanism for modulation of Ca(2+) influx into nerve terminals and, hence, of synaptic strength.
NeuN (neuronal nuclei) is a neuron-specific nuclear protein which is identified by immunoreactivity with a monoclonal antibody, anti-NeuN. Anti-NeuN has been used widely as a reliable tool to detect most postmitotic neuronal cell types in neuroscience, developmental biology, and stem cell research fields as well as diagnostic histopathology. To date, however, the identity of its antigen, NeuN itself, has been unknown. Here, we identify NeuN as the Fox-3 gene product by providing the following evidence: 1) Mass spectrometry analysis of anti-NeuN immunoreactive protein yields the Fox-3 amino acid sequence. 2) Recombinant Fox-3 is recognized by anti-NeuN. 3) Short hairpin RNAs targeting Fox-3 mRNA down-regulate NeuN expression. 4) Fox-3 expression is restricted to neural tissues. 5) Anti-Fox-3 immunostaining and anti-NeuN immunostaining overlap completely in neuronal nuclei. We also show that a protein cross-reactive with anti-NeuN is the synaptic vesicle protein, synapsin I. Anti-NeuN recognizes synapsin I in immunoblots with one order of magnitude lower affinity than Fox-3, and does not recognize synapsin I using immunohistology. Fox-3 (also called hexaribonucleotide-binding protein 3 and D11Bwg0517e) contains an RNA recognition motif and is classified as a member of the Fox-1 gene family that binds specifically to an RNA element, UGCAUG. We demonstrate that Fox-3 functions as a splicing regulator using neural cell-specific alternative splicing of the non-muscle myosin heavy chain II-B pre-mRNA as a model. Identification of NeuN as Fox-3 clarifies an important element of neurobiology research.
GFAP has long been adopted as the specific marker for pituicyte, a special type of astrocyte. GFAP and S100beta are two commonly used astrocyte markers. Their immunoreactivities differ in different regions of the brain. To our knowledge this issue has not been studied in pituicyte. In our preliminary study, we found that antibodies against GFAP and S100beta stained the pituicytes differently. A detailed investigation with both light and electron microscopic techniques was thus conducted in the rat. At light microscopic level, anti-GFAP and anti-S100beta stained 66.78% and 86.78% of the pituicytes, respectively. It was found at ultrastructural level that this difference was cell type specific. The parenchymatous pituicytes could be stained with antibodies against both GFAP and S100beta, whereas the fibrous pituicytes were only S100beta-immunoreactive. The functional significance of this cell type specificity remains to be elucidated.
Long-term potentiation in hippocampal neurons has stages that correspond to the stages of learning and memory. Early-phase (10-30 min) potentiation is accompanied by rapid increases in clusters or puncta of presynaptic and postsynaptic proteins, which depend on actin polymerization but not on protein synthesis. We have now examined changes in pre- and postsynaptic puncta and structures during glutamate-induced late-phase (3 hr) potentiation in cultured hippocampal neurons. We find that (1) the potentiation is accompanied by long-lasting maintenance of the increases in puncta, which depends on protein synthesis, (2) most of the puncta and synaptic structures are very dynamic, continually assembling and disassembling at sites that are more stable than the puncta or structures themselves, (3) the increase in presynaptic puncta appears to be due to both rapid and more gradual increases in the number of sites where the puncta may form, and also to the stabilization of existing puncta, (4) under control conditions, puncta of postsynaptic proteins behave similarly to puncta of presynaptic proteins and share sites with them, and (5) the increase in presynaptic puncta is accompanied by a similar increase in presumably presynaptic structures, which may form at distinct as well as shared sites. The new sites could contribute to the transition between the early and late phase mechanisms of plasticity by serving as seeds for the formation and maintenance of new synapses, thus acting as local &quot;tags&quot; for protein synthesis-dependent synaptic growth during late-phase plasticity.
This study examines the effects of ibotenic acid lesions of the mediodorsal nucleus of the thalamus (MD) on serial contextual memory retrieval in non-stress and stress conditions. Independent groups of mice learned two successive contextual serial discriminations (D1 and D2) in a four-hole board. The discriminations differed each by the color and texture of the floor. Twenty-four hours later, memory testing occurred in independent groups of mice on one of the two floors of the initial acquisition session. Half of the subjects received three electric footschocks (0.9mA, 2s) 5min prior to testing. Results showed that (i) stress induced a plasma corticosterone rise of same magnitude in sham-operated and MD-lesioned mice; (ii) non-stressed sham-operated mice accurately remembered D1 but not D2, whereas stressed sham-operated animals remembered D2 but not D1; (iii) non-stressed MD-lesioned mice exhibited a memory retrieval pattern similar to that observed in non-stressed sham-operated mice; (iv) however, the stress-induced inversion of the memory retrieval pattern was not observed in MD animals. The effects of MD lesions on memory retrieval in this task are similar to those observed in earlier studies in prefrontal cortex or amygdala-lesioned mice [Chauveau F, Pirard C, Coutan M, Drouet I, Liscia P, Bracocha D. Prefrontal cortex or basolateral amygdala lesions blocked the stress-induced inversion of serial memory pattern in mice. Neurobiol Learn Mem 2008;90:395-403]; they are however in sharp contrast with mice exhibiting hippocampal lesions [Chauveau F, Pierard C, Tronche C, Coutan M, Drouet I, Liscia P, et al. The hippocampus and prefrontal cortex are differentially involved in serial memory retrieval in non-stress and stress condition. Neurobiol Learn Mem; in press; Chauveau F, Pierard C, Tronche C, Coutan M, Drouet I, Liscia P, et al. Rapid stress-induced corticosterone rise in the hippocampus reverses serial memory retrieval pattern. Hippocampus; in press]. Overall, the present findings highlight the involvement of the MD in an AMG/PFC system mediating the rapid effects of stress on serial memory retrieval.
Recent anatomical and clinical evidence has shown that the cerebellum, primarily considered a motor control structure, is also involved in higher cognitive functions and behavioural changes, such as impulsive behaviour. Impulsive behaviour has been shown in several studies to be increased by lesions of the mediodorsal (MD) thalamic nucleus. We performed deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the mediodorsal and ventrolateral (VL) thalamic nuclei in rats, clinically mimicking such a lesion, and tested them for changes in impulsive behaviour in a choice reaction time test. We then analysed the effects of this stimulation on c-Fos expression in both the deep cerebellar nuclei (DCbN) and the prefrontal cortex (PFC), and correlated these outcomes to the measured changes in impulsive behaviour. DBS of the MD thalamic nucleus increased impulsive behaviour without changing motor parameters. This was accompanied by a decrease in the c-Fos expression in all cerebellar nuclei; with a corresponding increase in c-Fos expression in the PFC. DBS of the VL thalamic nucleus caused no significant change in behaviour or c-Fos expression in either region. The present study demonstrates that impulsive behaviour involves the cerebellar nuclei, possibly through a decreased selective attention caused by a disruption of the cerebello-thalamo-cortical pathways through the MD thalamic nucleus.
We examined whether and how deictic gestures and words influence each other when the content of the gesture was congruent or incongruent with that of the simultaneously produced word. Two experiments were carried out. In Experiment 1, the participants read aloud the deictic word 'QUA' ('here') or 'LA&quot; ('there'), printed on a token placed near to or far from their body. Simultaneously, they pointed towards one's own body, when the token was placed near, or at a remote position, when the token was placed far. In this way, participants read 'QUA' ('here') and pointed towards themselves (congruent condition) or a remote position (incongruent condition); or they read 'LA&quot; ('there') and pointed towards a remote position (congruent condition) or themselves (incongruent condition). In a control condition, in which a string of 'X' letters was printed on the token, the participants were silent and only pointed towards themselves (token placed near) or a remote position (token placed far). In Experiment 2, the participants read aloud the deictic word placed in the near or far position without gesturing. The results showed that the congruence/incongruence between the content of the deictic word and that of the gesture affected gesture kinematics and voice spectra. Indeed, the movement was faster in the congruent than in the control and incongruent conditions; and it was slower in the incongruent than in the control condition. As concerns voice spectra, formant 2 (F2) decreased in the incongruent conditions. The results suggest the existence of a bidirectional interaction between speech and gesture production systems.
We studied the effects of variations in maternal environment on maternal behaviour and offspring memory in mice by exposing lactating C57BL/6J dams to predator cues and/or environmental enrichment. At 10 weeks of age, object recognition memory in the offspring was assessed. The presence of enrichment in the maternal environment had no effect on offspring memory. In contrast, female offspring of dams that were not exposed to predator cues displayed a significant preference for the novel object (p=0.05) and a significantly higher preference score (PS) than female offspring of dams that were exposed to predator cues (F=4.23, p=0.05) indicating an impairment in object recognition memory in the latter. Conversely, there was no evidence of object recognition memory in male offspring, except for males of dams exposed to predator cues without shelter (p=0.03). These effects can be explained by an interaction between variations in maternal care and the stressfulness of the rearing conditions since a regression analysis revealed an inverse relationship between the level of licking-grooming and the PS, but only in female offspring reared by dams exposed to the predator cues (beta=-0.96, p=0.001). The present findings thus provide some evidence that early rearing conditions may affect cognitive abilities of mice. The data also suggest that these effects may be sex-specific, and that females may be more sensitive to early environmental variations than males.
Acute injections of 8mg/kg of 3,4-dihydroxy-l-phenylalanine (l-DOPA) or 0.05mg/kg rimonabant equally improved contralateral forepaw stepping in rats with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesions, and their combination improved stepping more than either drug alone. However, 0.05mg/kg rimonabant did not alter the changes in stepping produced by acute injections of a dyskinesic dose of 35mg/kg l-DOPA. Thus, not only is a cannabinoid antagonist monotherapeutic in this animal model of Parkinson's disease, but it also enhances the therapeutic effect of a moderate, but not a high, dose of l-DOPA.
Huntington's disease (HD) is an autosomal-dominant neurodegenerative disorder, for which no known cure or effective treatment exists. To facilitate the search for new potential treatments of HD, an automated system for analyzing the behavior of transgenic HD mice is urgently needed. A recently developed behavior screening system, the IntelliCage, allows automated testing of mouse behavior in the home cage employing individual recognition of animals living in social groups. The present study validates the ability of the IntelliCage system to detect behavioral and cognitive dysfunction in R6/2 mice, an established transgenic model of HD. The results indicate that the IntelliCage is a reliable system for recording exploratory activity, drinking behavior, circadian rhythm, spatial preference, and cognition in mice during prolonged periods of assessment. The system detected early dysfunctional behaviors in R6/2 mice, such as decrease in exploratory activity, sleep disturbances, increased drinking, and repetitive behavior. Additionally, the use of various learning tasks, such as spatial avoidance and spatial patrolling, revealed early cognitive changes in R6/2 mice. The simple learning tasks may be used at both early and late stages of the disease.
Eukaryotic circadian clocks include interconnected positive and negative feedback loops. The clock-cycle dimer (CLK-CYC) and its homolog, CLK-BMAL1, are key transcriptional activators of central components of the Drosophila and mammalian circadian networks, respectively. In Drosophila, negative loops include period-timeless and vrille; positive loops include par domain protein 1. Clockwork orange (CWO) is a recently discovered negative transcription factor with unusual effects on period, timeless, vrille, and par domain protein 1. To understand the actions of this protein, we introduced a new system of ordinary differential equations to model regulatory networks. The model is faithful in the sense that it replicates biological observations. CWO loop actions elevate CLK-CYC; the transcription of direct targets responds by integrating opposing signals from CWO and CLK-CYC. Loop regulation and integration of opposite transcriptional signals appear to be central mechanisms as they also explain paradoxical effects of period gain-of-function and null mutations.
BAR (Bin/Amphiphysin/Rvs) domains and amphipathic alpha-helices (AHs) are believed to be sensors of membrane curvature thus facilitating the assembly of protein complexes on curved membranes. Here, we used quantitative fluorescence microscopy to compare the binding of both motifs on single nanosized liposomes of different diameters and therefore membrane curvature. Characterization of members of the three BAR domain families showed surprisingly that the crescent-shaped BAR dimer with its positively charged concave face is not able to sense membrane curvature. Mutagenesis on BAR domains showed that membrane curvature sensing critically depends on the N-terminal AH and furthermore that BAR domains sense membrane curvature through hydrophobic insertion in lipid packing defects and not through electrostatics. Consequently, amphipathic motifs, such as AHs, that are often associated with BAR domains emerge as an important means for a protein to sense membrane curvature. Measurements on single liposomes allowed us to document heterogeneous binding behaviour within the ensemble and quantify the influence of liposome polydispersity on bulk membrane curvature sensing experiments. The latter results suggest that bulk liposome-binding experiments should be interpreted with great caution.
Recognition of actions and complex movements is fundamental for social interactions and action understanding. While the relationship between motor expertise and visual recognition of body movements has received a vast amount of interest, the role of visual learning remains largely unexplored. Combining psychophysics and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) experiments, we investigated neural correlates of visual learning of complex movements. Subjects were trained to visually discriminate between very similar complex movement stimuli generated by motion morphing that were either compatible (experiments 1 and 2) or incompatible (experiment 3) with human movement execution. Employing an fMRI adaptation paradigm as index of discriminability, we scanned human subjects before and after discrimination training. The results of experiment 1 revealed three different effects as a consequence of training: (1) Emerging fMRI-selective adaptation in general motion-related areas (hMT/V5+, KO/V3b) for the differences between human-like movements. (2) Enhanced of fMRI-selective adaptation already present before training in biological motion-related areas (pSTS, FBA). (3) Changes covarying with task difficulty in frontal areas. Moreover, the observed activity changes were specific to the trained movement patterns (experiment 2). The results of experiment 3, testing artificial movement stimuli, were strikingly similar to the results obtained for human movements. General and biological motion-related areas showed movement-specific changes in fMRI-selective adaptation for the differences between the stimuli after training. These results support the existence of a powerful visual machinery for the learning of complex motion patterns that is independent of motor execution. We thus propose a key role of visual learning in action recognition.
Previous studies of peripheral immune cells have documented that activation of adenosine 2A receptors (A(2A)Rs) decrease proinflammatory cytokine release and increase release of the potent anti-inflammatory cytokine, interleukin-10 (IL-10). Given the growing literature supporting that glial proinflammatory cytokines importantly contribute to neuropathic pain and that IL-10 can suppress such pain, we evaluated the effects of intrathecally administered A(2A)R agonists on neuropathic pain using the chronic constriction injury (CCI) model. A single intrathecal injection of the A(2A)R agonists 4-(3-(6-amino-9-(5-cyclopropylcarbamoyl-3,4-dihydroxytetrahydrofuran-2-yl)-9H-purin-2-yl)prop-2-ynyl)piperidine-1-carboxylic acid methyl ester (ATL313) or 2-p-(2-carboxyethyl)phenethylamino-5'-N-ethylcarboxamido adenosine HCl (CGS21680), 10-14 d after CCI versus sham surgery, produced a long-duration reversal of mechanical allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia for at least 4 weeks. Neither drug altered the nociceptive responses of sham-operated controls. An A(2A)R antagonist [ZM241385 (4-(2-[7-amino-2-(2-furyl)(1,2,4)triazolo(2,3-a)(1,3,5)triazin-5-ylamino]ethyl)phenol)] coadministered intrathecally with ATL313 abolished the action of ATL313 in rats with neuropathy-induced allodynia but had no effect on allodynia in the absence of the A(2A)R agonist. ATL313 attenuated CCI-induced upregulation of spinal cord activation markers for microglia and astrocytes in the L4-L6 spinal cord segments both 1 and 4 weeks after a single intrathecal ATL313 administration. Neutralizing IL-10 antibodies administered intrathecally transiently abolished the effect of ATL313 on neuropathic pain. In addition, IL-10 mRNA was significantly elevated in the CSF cells collected from the lumbar region. Activation of A(2A)Rs after intrathecal administration may be a novel, therapeutic approach for the treatment of neuropathic pain by increasing IL-10 in the immunocompetent cells of the CNS.
Receptor (type II) taste bud cells secrete ATP during taste stimulation. In turn, ATP activates adjacent presynaptic (type III) cells to release serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, or 5-HT) and norepinephrine (NE). The roles of these neurotransmitters in taste buds have not been fully elucidated. Here we tested whether ATP or 5-HT exert feedback onto receptor (type II) cells during taste stimulation. Our previous studies showed NE does not appear to act on adjacent taste bud cells, or at least on receptor cells. Our data show that 5-HT released from presynaptic (type III) cells provides negative paracrine feedback onto receptor cells by activating 5-HT(1A) receptors, inhibiting taste-evoked Ca(2+) mobilization in receptor cells, and reducing ATP secretion. The findings also demonstrate that ATP exerts positive autocrine feedback onto receptor (type II) cells by activating P2Y1 receptors and enhancing ATP secretion. These results begin to sort out how purinergic and aminergic transmitters function within the taste bud to modulate gustatory signaling in these peripheral sensory organs.
The main immunogenic region (MIR) is a conformation-dependent region at the extracellular apex of alpha1 subunits of muscle nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (AChR) that is the target of half or more of the autoantibodies to muscle AChRs in human myasthenia gravis and rat experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis. By making chimeras of human alpha1 subunits with alpha7 subunits, both MIR epitopes recognized by rat mAbs and by the patient-derived human mAb 637 to the MIR were determined to consist of two discontiguous sequences, which are adjacent only in the native conformation. The MIR, including loop alpha1 67-76 in combination with the N-terminal alpha helix alpha1 1-14, conferred high-affinity binding for most rat mAbs to the MIR. However, an additional sequence corresponding to alpha1 15-32 was required for high-affinity binding of human mAb 637. A water soluble chimera of Aplysia acetylcholine binding protein with the same alpha1 MIR sequences substituted was recognized by a majority of human, feline, and canine myasthenia gravis sera. The presence of the alpha1 MIR sequences in alpha1/alpha7 chimeras greatly promoted AChR expression and significantly altered the sensitivity to activation. This reveals a structural and functional, as well as antigenic, significance of the MIR.
Neuroligins are cell adhesion molecules involved in synapse formation and/or function. Neurons express four neuroligins (NL1-NL4), of which NL1 is specific to excitatory and NL2 to inhibitory synapses. Excitatory and inhibitory synapses include numerous subtypes. However, it is unknown whether NL1 performs similar functions in all excitatory and NL2 in all inhibitory synapses, or whether they regulate the formation and/or function of specific subsets of synapses. To address this central question, we performed paired recordings in primary somatosensory cortex of mice lacking NL1 or NL2. Using this system, we examined neocortical microcircuits formed by reciprocal synapses between excitatory neurons and two subtypes of inhibitory interneurons, namely, fast-spiking and somatostatin-positive interneurons. We find that the NL1 deletion had little effect on inhibitory synapses, whereas the NL2 deletion decreased (40-50%) the unitary (cell-to-cell) IPSC amplitude evoked from single fast-spiking interneurons. Strikingly, the NL2 deletion had no effect on IPSC amplitude evoked from single somatostatin-positive inhibitory interneurons. Moreover, the frequency of unitary synaptic connections between individual fast-spiking and somatostatin-positive interneurons and excitatory neurons was unchanged. The decrease in unitary IPSC amplitude originating from fast-spiking interneurons in NL2-deficient mice was due to a multiplicative and uniform downscaling of the amplitude distribution, which in turn was mediated by a decrease in both synaptic quantal amplitude and quantal content, the latter inferred from an increase in the coefficient of variation. Thus, NL2 is not necessary for establishing unitary inhibitory synaptic connections but is selectively required for &quot;scaling up&quot; unitary connections originating from a subset of interneurons.
When we perform a skilled movement such as reaching for an object, we can make use of prior information, for example about the location of the object in space. This helps us to prepare the movement, and we gain improved accuracy and speed during movement execution. Here, we investigate how prior information affects the motor cortical representation of movements during preparation and execution. We trained two monkeys in a delayed reaching task and provided a varying degree of prior information about the final target location. We decoded movement direction from multiple single-unit activity recorded from M1 (primary motor cortex) in one monkey and from PMd (dorsal premotor cortex) in a second monkey. Our results demonstrate that motor cortical cells in both areas exhibit individual encoding characteristics that change dynamically in time and dependent on prior information. On the population level, the information about movement direction is at any point in time accurately represented in a neuronal ensemble of time-varying composition. We conclude that movement representation in the motor cortex is not a static one, but one in which neurons dynamically allocate their computational resources to meet the demands defined by the movement task and the context of the movement. Consequently, we find that the decoding accuracy decreases if the precise task time, or the previous information that was available to the monkey, were disregarded in the decoding process. An optimal strategy for the readout of movement parameters from motor cortex should therefore take into account time and contextual parameters.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal motor neuron disease inherited in a small subset of patients. The SOD1(G93A) transgenic mouse models this subset of patients, and studies of this strain have suggested that endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and deficits in ER chaperone function are contributors to ALS pathophysiology. Here, we demonstrate that the reticulon family of proteins is a novel regulator of the ER chaperone protein disulfide isomerase (PDI), and that through PDI, reticulon-4A (Nogo-A) can protect mice against the neurodegeneration that characterizes ALS. We show that overexpressing reticulon protein induces a punctate redistribution of PDI intracellularly, both in vitro and in vivo. Conversely, reduction of endogenous NogoA expression causes a more homogeneous expression pattern in vivo. These effects occur without induction of the unfolded protein response. To examine the effect of PDI redistribution on ALS disease progression, we conducted survival and behavior studies of SOD1(G93A) mice. Deletion of a single copy of the NogoA,B gene accelerates disease onset and progression, while deletion of both copies further worsens disease. We conclude that NogoA contributes to the proper function of the ER resident chaperone PDI, and is protective against ALS-like neurodegeneration. Our results provide a novel intracellular role for reticulon proteins and support the hypothesis that modulation of PDI function is a potential therapeutic approach to ALS.
Changes in the sensory environment are good indicators for behaviorally relevant events and strong triggers for the reallocation of attention. In the auditory domain, violations of a pattern of repetitive stimuli precipitate in the event-related potentials as mismatch negativity (MMN). Stimulus-specific adaptation (SSA) of single neurons in the auditory cortex has been proposed to be the cellular substrate of MMN (Nelken and Ulanovsky, 2007). However, until now, the existence of SSA in the awake auditory cortex has not been shown. In the present study, we recorded single and multiunits in parallel with evoked local field potentials (eLFPs) in the primary auditory cortex of the awake rat. Both neurons and eLFPs in the awake animal adapted in a stimulus-specific manner, and SSA was controlled by stimulus probability and frequency separation. SSA of isolated units was significant during the first stimulus-evoked &quot;on&quot; response but not in the following inhibition and rebound of activity. The eLFPs exhibited SSA in the first negative deflection and, to a lesser degree, in a slower positive deflection but no MMN. Spike adaptation correlated closely with adaptation of the fast negative deflection but not the positive deflection. Therefore, we conclude that single neurons in the auditory cortex of the awake rat adapt in a stimulus-specific manner and contribute to corresponding changes in eLFP but do not generate a late deviant response component directly equivalent to the human MMN. Nevertheless, the described effect may reflect a certain part of the process needed for sound discrimination.
Seeing the image of a newscaster on a television set causes us to think that the sound coming from the loudspeaker is actually coming from the screen. How images capture sounds is mysterious because the brain uses different methods for determining the locations of visual versus auditory stimuli. The retina senses the locations of visual objects with respect to the eyes, whereas differences in sound characteristics across the ears indicate the locations of sound sources referenced to the head. Here, we tested which reference frame (RF) is used when vision recalibrates perceived sound locations. Visually guided biases in sound localization were induced in seven humans and two monkeys who made eye movements to auditory or audiovisual stimuli. On audiovisual (training) trials, the visual component of the targets was displaced laterally by 5-6 degrees. Interleaved auditory-only (probe) trials served to evaluate the effect of experience with mismatched visual stimuli on auditory localization. We found that the displaced visual stimuli induced ventriloquism aftereffect in both humans (approximately 50% of the displacement size) and monkeys (approximately 25%), but only for locations around the trained spatial region, showing that audiovisual recalibration can be spatially specific. We tested the reference frame in which the recalibration occurs. On probe trials, we varied eye position relative to the head to dissociate head- from eye-centered RFs. Results indicate that both humans and monkeys use a mixture of the two RFs, suggesting that the neural mechanisms involved in ventriloquism occur in brain region(s) using a hybrid RF for encoding spatial information.
Extracellular physiological recordings are typically separated into two frequency bands: local field potentials (LFPs) (a circuit property) and spiking multiunit activity (MUA). Recently, there has been increased interest in LFPs because of their correlation with functional magnetic resonance imaging blood oxygenation level-dependent measurements and the possibility of studying local processing and neuronal synchrony. To further understand the biophysical origin of LFPs, we asked whether it is possible to estimate their time course based on the spiking activity from the same electrode or nearby electrodes. We used &quot;signal estimation theory&quot; to show that a linear filter operation on the activity of one or a few neurons can explain a significant fraction of the LFP time course in the macaque monkey primary visual cortex. The linear filter used to estimate the LFPs had a stereotypical shape characterized by a sharp downstroke at negative time lags and a slower positive upstroke for positive time lags. The filter was similar across different neocortical regions and behavioral conditions, including spontaneous activity and visual stimulation. The estimations had a spatial resolution of approximately 1 mm and a temporal resolution of approximately 200 ms. By considering a causal filter, we observed a temporal asymmetry such that the positive time lags in the filter contributed more to the LFP estimation than the negative time lags. Additionally, we showed that spikes occurring within approximately 10 ms of spikes from nearby neurons yielded better estimation accuracies than nonsynchronous spikes. In summary, our results suggest that at least some circuit-level local properties of the field potentials can be predicted from the activity of one or a few neurons.
Traditionally, the calyx of Held synapse is viewed as a highly reliable relay in the sound localization circuit of the auditory brainstem, with every presynaptic action potential triggering a postsynaptic action potential in vivo. However, this view is at odds with slice recordings that report large short-term depression (STD). To investigate the reliability and precision of this synapse, we compared slice and in vivo recordings from medial nucleus of the trapezoid body neurons of young adult mice. We show that the extracellularly recorded complex waveform can be used to estimate both presynaptic release and postsynaptic excitability. Whereas under standard slice conditions the synapse underwent large STD, both extracellular and whole-cell recordings indicated that in vivo the size of the EPSPs was independent of recent history. The estimated quantal content was typically &lt;20 in vivo, much lower than in the resting synapse under standard slice conditions. However, due to the large quantal size and summation of EPSPs, the safety factor of this synapse was generally still sufficiently large and postsynaptic failures were observed only infrequently in vivo. When present, failures were typically due to stochastic fluctuations in EPSP size or postsynaptic spike depression. In vivo, the calyx of Held synapse thus functions as a tonic synapse. The price it pays for its low release probability is an increase in jitter and synaptic latency and occasional postsynaptic failures.
Macroscopic (millimeter scale) functional clustering is a hallmark characteristic of motor cortex spatial organization in awake behaving mammals; however, almost no information is known about the functional micro-organization (approximately 100 microm scale). Here, we optically recorded intracellular calcium transients of layer 2/3 neurons with cellular resolution over approximately 200-microm-diameter fields in the forelimb motor cortex of mobile, head-restrained mice during two distinct movements (running and grooming). We showed that the temporal correlation between neurons was statistically larger the closer the neurons were to each other. We further explored this correlation by using two separate methods to spatially segment the neurons within each imaging field: K-means clustering and correlations between single neuron activity and mouse movements. The two methods segmented the neurons similarly and led to the conclusion that the origin of the inverse relationship between correlation and distance seen statistically was twofold: clusters of highly temporally correlated neurons were often spatially distinct from one another, and (even when the clusters were spatially intermingled) within the clusters, the more correlated the neurons were to each other, the shorter the distance between them. Our results represent a direct observation of functional clustering within the microcircuitry of the awake mouse motor cortex.
Recently, local morphologic alterations of the brain in areas ascribable to the transmission of pain were reported in patients suffering from chronic pain. Although some authors discussed these findings as damage or loss of brain gray matter, one of the key questions is whether these structural alterations in the cerebral pain-transmitting network precede or succeed the chronicity of pain. We investigated 32 patients with chronic pain due to primary hip osteoarthritis and found a characteristic gray matter decrease in patients compared with controls in the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC), right insular cortex and operculum, dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC), amygdala, and brainstem. We then investigated a subgroup of these patients (n = 10) 6 weeks and 4 months after total hip replacement surgery, monitoring whole brain structure. After surgery, all 10 patients were completely pain free and we observed a gray matter increase in the DLPFC, ACC, amygdala, and brainstem. As gray matter decrease is at least partly reversible when pain is successfully treated, we suggest that the gray matter abnormalities found in chronic pain do not reflect brain damage but rather are a reversible consequence of chronic nociceptive transmission, which normalizes when the pain is adequately treated.




The human GFAP splice variants GFAPDelta164 and GFAPDeltaexon6 both result in a GFAP protein isoform with a unique out-of-frame carboxy-terminus that can be detected by the GFAP+1 antibody. We previously reported that GFAP+1 was expressed in astrocytes and in degenerating neurons in Alzheimer's disease brains. In this study we aimed at further investigating the neuronal GFAP+1 expression and we started by affinity purifying the GFAP+1 antibody. The purified antibody resulted in a loss of neuronal GFAP+1 signal, although other antibodies directed against the amino- and carboxy-terminus of GFAPalpha still revealed GFAP-immunopositive neurons, as described before. With an in-depth analysis of a western blot, followed by mass spectrometry we discovered that the previously detected neuronal GFAP+1 expression was due to cross-reactivity of the antibody with neurofilament-L (NF-L). This was confirmed by double-label fluorescent immunohistochemistry and western blotting with the unpurified GFAP+1 antibody and an antibody against NF-L. Our data imply that NF-L can accumulate in some tangle-like structures in Alzheimer brains. More importantly, the purified GFAP+1 antibody clearly revealed a specific subtype of astrocytes in the adult human brain. These large astrocytes are present throughout the brain, e.g., along the subventricular zone, in the hippocampus, in the striatum and in the spinal cord of controls, Alzheimer, and Parkinson patients. The presence of a specific GFAP-isoform suggests a specialized function of these astrocytes.
A single pulse of transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) can reset the 15- to 30-Hz beta-band oscillations in the motor cortex. These oscillations are known to influence the amplitude of corticospinal activity evoked by TMS. To garner further evidence for this resetting, we tested how electromyographic responses to motor cortex TMS were modulated by a preceding series of TMS pulses. We used a triad of conditioning TMS pulses at various interstimulus intervals (ISIs) in an attempt to drive cortical activity at the corresponding frequency. We then analyzed how the amplitude of motor-evoked potentials (MEPs) to a test pulse varied at different intervals after the conditioning triad. When conditioning pulses were given at an ISI of 25 ms, responses to the fourth (test) pulse were facilitated 25 ms later. Neither a single conditioning pulse nor triad of conditioning pulses separated by other ISIs enhanced responses to the test pulse at the expected timings. Triads of pulses at an ISI of 25 ms did not enhance subsequent MEPs to brainstem stimulation. Based on the intensity of the conditioning stimuli necessary to produce this effect and on the effective interval, we conclude that the facilitation at 25 ms differs from intracortical facilitation at 7-10 ms seen in the paired-pulse experiment originally reported by Kujirai et al. These results suggest that a triad of TMS pulses can enhance an intrinsic oscillatory rhythm of the motor cortex (40 Hz) and facilitate cortical activity at an ISI corresponding to the frequency of that rhythm.
In the central nervous system (CNS) insulin mediates a variety of effects including feeding, metabolism and cognition. The cognitive enhancing effects of insulin are proposed to be mediated through activation of insulin receptors in the hippocampus, an important integration center for learning and memory in the mammalian brain. Since less is known regarding insulin signaling events in the hippocampus, the aim of the current study was to determine whether insulin stimulates similar signaling cascades and GLUT4 translocation in the rat hippocampus as has been described in peripheral tissues. Intracerebroventricular administration of insulin increases hippocampal insulin levels and also stimulates the phosphorylation of Akt in a time-dependent manner. Insulin also stimulates the translocation of GLUT4 to hippocampal plasma membranes in a time course that mirrors the increases in glucose uptake observed during the performance of hippocampal-dependent tasks. Insulin stimulated phosphorylation of Akt and translocation of GLUT4 were blocked by pretreatment with the PI3-kinase inhibitor LY294002. Confocal immunofluorescence determined that insulin stimulated phosphorylation of Akt was localized to neurons and colocalized with the insulin receptor and GLUT4 in the rat hippocampus, thereby identifying the functional anatomical substrates of insulin signaling in the hippocampus. These results demonstrate that insulin-stimulated translocation of GLUT4 to the plasma membrane in the rat hippocampus occurs via similar mechanisms as described in peripheral tissues and suggests that insulin-mediated translocation of GLUT4 may provide a mechanism through which hippocampal neurons rapidly increase glucose utilization during increases in neuronal activity associated with hippocampal-dependent learning.
The onset of the daily wheel running bout precedes dark onset by several hours in the early runner genetic variant of mice. Here, we test the hypothesis that timed daily administration of a melatonin agonist, ramelteon, or a benzodiazepine, triazolam, normalizes the timing of daily wheel-running rhythms in early runner mice. The daily profiles of wheel-running activity of early runner mice were monitored continuously in a 12:12 light/dark cycle. Wheel running was assessed before, during and after timed daily oral administration of saline vehicle (n=12), ramelteon (10 mg/kg, n=12), or triazolam (1 mg/kg, n=12). The timing of wheel-running rhythms relative to the light/dark cycle was used as a measure of the timing of wake onset. Under baseline conditions, early runner mice entrained to a light/dark cycle at an advanced phase, approximately 3 h before dark onset, on average. Triazolam, but not ramelteon, suppressed wheel-running acutely when administered just prior to the time at which wheel-running onset had occurred under baseline conditions. On a washout day under a light/dark cycle subsequent to one week of once daily administration, the onset of wheel-running was delayed relative to baseline in both ramelteon-treated mice and triazolam-treated mice. In constant dark subsequent to a second week of once daily administration, the onset of wheel-running activity was not affected by either compound. Thus, ramelteon and triazolam caused a shift in the timing of wheel-running rhythms in an LD cycle but did so without long-term effects on the functioning of the circadian clock.
DNA repair deficiency results in neurodegenerative disease and increased susceptibility to excitotoxic cell death, suggesting a critical but undefined role for DNA damage in neurodegeneration. We compared DNA damage, Ku70-Bax interaction, and Bax-dependent excitotoxic cell death in kainic acid-treated primary cortical neurons derived from both wild-type mice and mice deficient in the DNA-dependent protein kinase catalytic subunit (DNA-PKcs) encoded by the Prkdc gene. In both wild-type and Prkdc(-/-) neurons, kainic acid treatment resulted in rapid induction of DNA damage (53BP1 foci formation) followed by nuclear pyknosis. Bax deficiency, by either Bax shRNA-mediated knockdown or gene deletion, protected wild-type and heterozygous but not Prkdc(-/-) neurons from kainate-induced excitotoxicity. Cotransfection of DNA-PKcs with Bax shRNA restored Bax shRNA-mediated neuroprotection in Prkdc(-/-) neurons, suggesting that DNA-PKcs is required for kainate-induced activation of the pro-apoptotic Bax pathway. Immunoprecipitation studies revealed that the DNA-PKcs-nonphosphorylatable Ku70 (S6A/S51A) bound 3- to 4-fold greater Bax than wild-type Ku70, suggesting that DNA-PKcs-mediated Ku70 phosphorylation causes release of Bax from Ku70. In support of this, kainic acid induced translocation of a Bax-EGFP fusion protein to the mitochondria in the presence of a cotransfected wild-type, but not mutant Ku70 (S6A/S51A) gene when examined at 4 and 8 h following kainate addition. We conclude that DNA-PKcs links DNA damage to Bax-dependent excitotoxic cell death, by phosphorylating Ku70 on serines 6 and/or 51, to initiate Bax translocation to the mitochondria and directly activate a pro-apoptotic Bax-dependent death cascade.
Central neurons receive thousands of synaptic inputs. A recent study shows how pyramidal neurons of the mammalian neocortex integrate synaptic input in a parallel manner, illustrating how a chain of dendritic integration mechanisms act to signal distal dendritic excitatory synaptic input.
The phytocannabinoid Delta(9)-Tetrahydrocannabinol (Delta(9)-THC), the main psychoactive cannabinoid in cannabis, activates a number of signalling cascades including p53. This study examines the role of Delta(9)-THC in regulating the p53 post-translational modifier proteins, Murine double minute (Mdm2) and Small Ubquitin-like MOdifier protein 1 (SUMO-1) in cortical neurons. Delta(9)-THC increased both Mdm2 and SUMO-1 protein expression and induced the deSUMOylation of p53 in a cannabinoid receptor type 1 (CB(1))-receptor dependent manner. We demonstrate that Delta(9)-THC decreased the SUMOylation of the CB(1) receptor. The data reveal a novel role for cannabinoid receptor activation in modulating the SUMO regulatory system.
Self-assembled monolayers (SAMs) are widely used to modify the interfacial properties of solid surfaces in either a homogeneous or a patterned manner. One of the many techniques developed for patterning SAMs involves heating the surface with a focused laser beam. Localized heating can result in pattern formation through either the ablation of both the solid substrate and the SAM (chemically nonspecific patterning) or, at lower temperatures, the selective breaking of the chemical bonds between the SAM and the substrate (chemically specific patterning). The latter method is termed chemically specific laser-induced patterning and is demonstrated for alkanethiol monolayers on gold (Au). In this report, the interplay between alkanethiol desorption and nanoscale Au ablation is studied using atomic force microscopy to image both the topographical and the chemical features of laser patterned areas. Frequently the two processes occur simultaneously but with different spatial extents, as predicted theoretically, due to their different threshold temperatures. By tuning the exposure conditions (laser power and irradiation time), parameters are established where local heating causes alkanethiol desorption without any Au ablation, thus, allowing chemically specific desorption and patterning of alkanethiol SAMs. This allows chemical patterns to be created without changes in the surface topography. Using scanning electron microscopy, a linear dependence of pattern size on irradiation time is demonstrated for circular features 0.5-1 microm in diameter.

Rizatriptan is a 5HT (IB/ID) agonist with proven efficacy in the acute treatment of migraine headache. We performed a systematic review of the literature for clinical trials of rizatriptan incorporating important patient outcomes including consistency of response, preference, satisfaction, and quality of life. We found evidence that rizatriptan provides consistent relief of migraine attacks and that patients prefer rizatriptan over other treatments because of its speed of relief. Patient satisfaction with rizatriptan is significantly higher than placebo, but appears equivalent to most other triptans. Migraine-specific quality of life at 24 hours is significantly better in patients treated with rizatriptan compared to placebo, while overall long-term quality of life is less affected. The published clinical trials included in this systematic review are subject to bias due to the open-label nature of preference trials and the doses chosen for comparison in head-to-head trials.





Dementia in Parkinson's disease (PD/PDD) is a common complication with a prevalence of up to 50%, but the specific changes underlying the cognitive decline remain undefined. Neuronal degeneration resulting in the dysfunction of multiple subcortical neurochemical projection systems has been described along with Lewy body-type pathology in cortical and limbic regions. Advanced alpha-synuclein (alphaSyn) pathology is not necessarily sufficient for producing dementia and concomitant Alzheimer's disease (AD) change has also been proposed as a possible substrate of PDD. A lack of consensus in the extant literature likely stems from clinical heterogeneity and variable reliability in clinical characterisation as well as other historical and methodological issues. The concurrent presence of abnormally deposited alphaSyn, amyloid-beta and tau proteins in the PDD brain and the interaction of these molecules in a linked pathological cascade of AD and PD-related mechanisms may prove important in determining the underlying pathological process for the development of dementia in PD and this concept of combined pathologies awaits further investigation.
Autism is a behaviorally defined disorder with deficits in social interaction, communication, atypical behaviors, and restricted areas of interest. Postmortem studies of the brain in autism have shown a broad spectrum of abnormalities in the cerebellum and neocortex, involving limbic regions such as anterior cingulate cortex (ACC, Brodmann's area 24). Using stereological techniques, we analyzed quantitatively cytoarchitectonic subdomains of the ACC (areas 24a, b, c) with regard to cell packing density and cell size. Microscopic examination of the ACC was also done to identify any neuropathologies. Results showed a significant decrease in cell size in layers I-III and layers V-VI of area 24b and in cell packing density in layers V-VI of area 24c. Direct comparisons revealed irregular lamination in three of nine autism brains and increased density of neurons in the subcortical white matter in the remaining cases. Because previous studies have suggested that von Economo neurons (VENs) may be altered in autism, a preliminary study of their density and size was undertaken. VEN density did not differ between autism and control brains overall. However, among the nine autism cases, there were two subsets; three brains with significantly increased VEN density and the remaining six cases with reduced VEN density compared to controls. Collectively, the findings of this pilot study may reflect the known heterogeneity in individuals with autism and variations in clinical symptomotology. Further neuroanatomic analyses of the ACC, from carefully documented subjects with autism, could substantially expand our understanding of ACC functions and its role in autism.
Metabonomics is a new technology providing broad information about dynamic metabolic responses in living systems to pathophysiological stimuli or genetic modification. Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy is one of the most powerful methods in metabonomics; it is utilized to establish the metabolic profiles of biofluids, and is practically the only method capable of examining intact tissue samples. Experience with the application of metabonomics in eye research is still limited, yet this method provides the possibility of exploring metabolic processes in the eye in vivo. This article presents a brief background to the usefulness of metabonomics, and the possible applications of an NMR-based technique in eye research and clinical practice.






We experience the shape of objects in our world largely by way of our vision and touch but the availability and integration of information between the senses remains an open question. The research presented in this article examines the effect of stimulus complexity on visual, haptic and crossmodal discrimination. Using sculpted three-dimensional objects whose features vary systematically, we perform a series of three experiments to determine perceptual equivalence as a function of complexity. Two unimodal experiments--vision and touch-only, and one crossmodal experiment investigating the availability of information across the senses, were performed. We find that, for the class of stimuli used, subjects were able to visually discriminate them reliably across the entire range of complexity, while the experiments involving haptic information show a marked decrease in performance as the objects become more complex. Performance in the crossmodal condition appears to be constrained by the limits of the subjects' haptic representation, but the combination of the two sources of information is of some benefit over vision alone when comparing the simpler, low-frequency stimuli. This result shows that there is crossmodal transfer, and therefore perceptual equivalency, but that this transfer is limited by the object's complexity.
A recent article in Acta Psychologica (&quot;Picture-plane inversion leads to qualitative changes of face perception&quot; by Rossion [Rossion, B. (2008). Picture-plane inversion leads to qualitative changes of face perception. Acta Psychologica (Amst), 128(2), 274-289]) criticized several aspects of an earlier paper of ours [Riesenhuber, M., Jarudi, I., Gilad, S., &amp; Sinha, P. (2004). Face processing in humans is compatible with a simple shape-based model of vision. Proceedings of the Royal Society of London B (Supplements), 271, S448-S450]. We here address Rossion's criticisms and correct some misunderstandings. To frame the discussion, we first review our previously presented computational model of face recognition in cortex [Jiang, X., Rosen, E., Zeffiro, T., Vanmeter, J., Blanz, V., &amp; Riesenhuber, M. (2006). Evaluation of a shape-based model of human face discrimination using FMRI and behavioral techniques. Neuron, 50(1), 159-172] that provides a concrete biologically plausible computational substrate for holistic coding, namely a neural representation learned for upright faces, in the spirit of the original simple-to-complex hierarchical model of vision by Hubel and Wiesel. We show that Rossion's and others' data support the model, and that there is actually a convergence of views on the mechanisms underlying face recognition, in particular regarding holistic processing.
The key points to remember about abobotulinumtoxinA are as follows: BoNTA-ABO (abobotulinumtoxinA [Dysport]; Medicis Aesthetics, Scottsdale, AZ) and BoNTA-ONA (onabotulinumtoxin A [Botox Cosmetic]; Allergan, Irvine, CA) are both derivatives of botulinum toxin A produced from different strains of the bacterium Clostridium botulinum through proprietary manufacturing processes, and both are approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA). BoNTA-ABO and BoNTA-ONA, which are both type A botulinum toxins, should be further differentiated from Myobloc (Solstice Neurosciences, San Francisco, CA), which is the only FDA-approved type B botulinum toxin. BoNTA-ABO, as with other derivatives of botulinum toxin, produces a chemodenervation of the muscle by preventing the release and binding of acetylcholine at the neuromuscular endplate. The paralytic effect of BoNTA-ABO, as with other derivatives of botulinum toxin, produces a relaxation of the underlying muscle with the associated benefit of reducing dynamic rhytids of the overlying skin. BoNTA-ABO units are not interchangeable with BoNTA-ONA units. An understanding of the proper dosing and familiarity with the use of either botulinum toxin in aesthetic applications is required to produce results that are both safe and consistent. Spread of the toxin is dependent on solution volume and injection technique (physically pushing the toxin from the area of injection). Diffusion of the toxin is largely dependent on toxin dose and receptor concentration; unbound toxin moves down a concentration gradient. Beyond the treatment of glabellar rhytids, there are few, if any, randomized, double blind, placebo-controlled studies on the aesthetic uses of BoNTA-ABO. This guide summarizes what is known and serves as a basis for clinical use and continued understanding.
The present paper summarizes experimental data demonstrating the reducing effect of direct agonists and positive allosteric modulators (PAMs) of the gamma-aminobutyric acid(B) (GABA(B)) receptor on different alcohol-related behaviors. Different lines of evidence indicate that direct agonists, including baclofen, effectively suppress acquisition and maintenance of alcohol drinking behavior, relapse-like drinking, and alcohol's reinforcing, rewarding, stimulating, and motivational properties in rats and mice. More recently, the discovery of a positive allosteric modulatory binding site, together with the synthesis of in vivo effective ligands, opened a new avenue of research in GABA(B) pharmacology. Accumulating lines of evidence suggest that PAMs retain baclofen's capcity to suppress alcohol consumption and alcohol's reinforcing and motivational properties in rats; these effects occur at doses far from those producing behavioral toxicity.

There has been a great deal of activity in recent years in the study of the direct effects of ethanol on the dopamine reward system originating in the ventral tegmental area (VTA). In addition, recent evidence suggests that acetaldehyde formed from ethanol in the brain or periphery may be a crucial factor in the central effects of ethanol. This critical review examines the actions of ethanol and acetaldehyde on neurons of the VTA and the possible interactions with stress, with a focus on electrophysiological studies in vivo and in vitro. Ethanol has specific effects on dopamine neurons and there is recent evidence that some of the in vivo and in vitro effects of ethanol are mediated by acetaldehyde. Stress has some analogous actions on neuronal activity in the VTA, and the interactions between the effects of stress and alcohol on VTA neurons may be a factor in ethanol-seeking behavior. Taken together, the evidence suggests that stress may contribute to the activating effects of ethanol on dopamine VTA neurons, that at least some actions of ethanol on dopamine VTA neurons are mediated by acetaldehyde, and that the interaction between stress and alcohol could play a role in susceptibility to alcoholism. The link between acetaldehyde and ethanol actions on brain reward pathways may provide a new avenue for the development of agents to reduce alcohol craving.





Neuralgic amyotrophy is a painful, episodic peripheral nerve disorder localized to the brachial plexus. Sensory symptoms occur in 80% of the patients. We assessed the frequency of abnormalities in sensory nerve conduction studies of the lateral and medial antebrachial cutaneous, radial sensory, median sensory, and ulnar sensory nerves in 112 patients. Sensory nerve conduction studies showed abnormalities in &lt;20% of nerves, even when the nerve was clinically affected. The lateral and medial antebrachial cutaneous nerves were most often abnormal, in 15% and 17% of nerves. No correlation with the presence or localization of clinical deficits was found. Brachial plexus sensory nerve conduction studies seem to be of little diagnostic value in neuralgic amyotrophy. Our findings also indicate that some sensory lesions may be in the nerve roots instead of the plexus. An examination of normal sensory nerve conduction studies does not preclude neuralgic amyotrophy as a diagnosis.
Leptin is thought to reduce food intake, in part, by increasing sensitivity to satiation signals, including CCK. Leptin action in both forebrain and hindbrain reduces food intake, and forebrain leptin action augments both the anorexic and neuronal activation responses to CCK. Here, we asked whether leptin signaling in hindbrain also enhances these responses to CCK. We found that food intake was strongly inhibited at 30 min after a combination of 4th-intracerebroventricular (4th-icv) leptin injection and intraperitoneal CCK administration, whereas neither hormone affected intake during this period when given alone. Leptin injections targeted directly at the dorsal vagal complex (DVC) similarly enhanced the anorexic response to intraperitoneal CCK. Intra-DVC leptin injection also robustly increased the number of neurons positive for phospho-STAT3 staining in the area surrounding the site of injection, confirming local leptin receptor activation. Conversely, the anorexic response to 4th-icv leptin was completely blocked by IP devazepide, a CCKA-R antagonist, suggesting that hindbrain leptin reduces intake via a mechanism requiring endogenous CCK signaling. We then asked whether hindbrain leptin treatment enhances the dorsomedial hindbrain, hypothalamus, or amygdala c-Fos responses to IP CCK. We found that, in contrast to the effects of forebrain leptin administration, 4th-icv leptin injection had no effect on CCK-induced c-Fos in any structures examined. We conclude that leptin signaling in either forebrain or hindbrain areas can enhance the response to satiation signals and that multiple distinct neural circuits likely contribute to this interaction.
Maternal obesity accentuates offspring obesity in dams bred to develop diet-induced obesity (DIO) on a 31% fat, high-sucrose, high-energy (HE) diet but has no effect on offspring of diet-resistant (DR) dams. Also, only DIO dams become obese when they and DR dams are fed HE diet throughout gestation and lactation. We assessed glucose and oleic acid (OA) sensitivity of dissociated ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus (VMN) neurons from 3- to 4-wk old offspring of DIO and DR dams fed chow or HE diet using fura-2 calcium imaging to monitor intracellular calcium fluctuations as an index of neuronal activity. Offspring of DIO dams fed chow had approximately 2-fold more glucose-inhibited (GI) neurons than did DR offspring. This difference was eliminated in offspring of DIO dams fed HE diet. At 2.5 mM glucose, offspring of chow-fed DIO dams had more GI neurons that were either excited or inhibited by OA than did DR offspring. Maternal HE diet intake generally increased the percentage of neurons that were excited and decreased the percentage that were inhibited by OA in both DIO and DR offspring. However, this effect was more pronounced in DIO offspring. These data, as well as concentration-dependent differences in OA sensitivity, suggest that genotype, maternal obesity, and dietary content can all affect the sensitivity of offspring VMN neurons to glucose and long-chain fatty acids. Such altered sensitivities may underlie the propensity of DIO offspring to become obese when fed high-fat, high-sucrose diets.
We studied the membrane transporters that mediate intracellular pH (pH(i)) recovery from acidification in brainstem neurons from chemosensitive regions of neonatal rats. Individual neurons within brainstem slices from the retrotrapezoid nucleus (RTN), the nucleus tractus solitarii (NTS), and the locus coeruleus (LC) were studied using a pH-sensitive fluorescent dye and fluorescence imaging microscopy. The rate of pH(i) recovery from an NH(4)Cl-induced acidification was measured, and the effects of inhibitors of various pH-regulating transporters determined. Hypercapnia (15% CO(2)) resulted in a maintained acidification in neurons from all three regions. Recovery in RTN neurons was nearly entirely eliminated by amiloride, an inhibitor of Na(+)/H(+) exchange (NHE). Recovery in RTN neurons was blocked approximately 50% by inhibitors of isoform 1 of NHE (NHE-1) but very little by an inhibitor of NHE-3 or by DIDS (an inhibitor of HCO(3)-dependent transport). In NTS neurons, amiloride blocked over 80% of the recovery, which was also blocked approximately 65% by inhibitors of NHE-1 and 26% blocked by an inhibitor of NHE-3. Recovery in LC neurons, in contrast, was unaffected by amiloride or blockers of NHE isoforms but was dependent on Na(+) and increased by external HCO(3)(-). On the basis of these findings, pH(i) recovery from acidification appears to be largely mediated by NHE-1 in RTN neurons, by NHE-1 and NHE-3 in NTS neurons, and by a Na- and HCO(3)-dependent transporter in LC neurons. Thus, pH(i) recovery is mediated by different pH-regulating transporters in neurons from different chemosensitive regions, but recovery is suppressed by hypercapnia in all of the neurons.
I describe 4 protective strategies that African Americans employ that may challenge current HIV prevention efforts: (1) an adaptive duality that protects identity, (2) personal control influenced by external factors, (3) long-established indirect communication patterns, and (4) a mistrust of &quot;outsiders.&quot; I propose the Sexual Health Model as a conceptual framework for HIV prevention interventions because it incorporates established adaptive coping strategies into new HIV-related protective skills. The Sexual Health Model promotes interconnectedness, sexual ownership, and body awareness, 3 concepts that represent the context of the African American historical and cultural experience and that enhance rather than contradict future prevention efforts.
One factor that has contributed to confusion in discussions of the use of adolescent neuroscience in the development of public policies affecting young people is a blurring of three very different issues that need to be separated: (a) what science does and does not say about brain development in adolescence; (b) what neuroscience does and does not imply for the understanding of adolescent behavior; and (c) what these implications suggest for public policy. In this article, the author argues that a good deal is known about adolescent brain development, that this knowledge has in fact been useful in shaping our understanding of adolescent behavior, and that neuroscience, like behavioral science, can usefully inform policy discussions. He cautions, however, that nonexperts may be unduly swayed by neuroscience evidence and thus that such evidence should be presented with special care.




Obtaining vesicular fractions from cell lines or animal tissue is both time and technically intensive. The presence of plasma membrane and nuclear contaminants within a preparation is often dependent on the method of homogenization and is usually mitigated through the use of density gradients. We have developed a method that utilizes Balch homogenization and differential centrifugation to obtain two distinct vesicular fractions along with purified nuclear, cytoplasmic, and ghost fractions within a 3-h period of time without the use of density gradients. Importantly, these fractions maintain their biologic activity following isolation and may be used for both localization and biochemical analyses.
At most institutions, education in the anatomical sciences has undergone several changes over the last decade. To identify the changes that have occurred in gross anatomy, microscopic anatomy, neuroscience/neuroanatomy, and embryology courses, directors of these courses were asked to respond to a survey with questions pertaining to total course hours, hours of lecture, and hours of laboratory, whether the course was part of an integrated program or existed as a stand-alone course, and what type of laboratory experience occurred in the course. These data were compared to data obtained from a similar survey in 2002. Comparison between the data sets suggests several key points some of which include: decreased total hours in gross anatomy and neuroscience/neuroanatomy courses, increased use of virtual microscopy in microscopic anatomy courses, and decreased laboratory hours in embryology courses.
Spontaneous preferences towards possible prey have been little investigated using targets in motion. Preferences of domestic chicks (Gallus gallus) to peck at video-images of stimuli representing live insects moving along their longer body axis (i.e. &quot;forwards&quot;) or along the shorter body axis (i.e. &quot;sideways&quot;) were investigated. Chicks presented with both types of stimulus displayed a significant preference for pecking at stimuli moving sideways. This preference was already present on day 1 post-hatching, and it strengthened on day 6 for those chicks that had experienced pecking at live insects. Head angles used to fixate the stimuli prior to pecking were also analysed and were consistent (i.e. 30 degrees -35 degrees and 60 degrees -65 degrees ) with those reported for fixation of non-edible targets (larger stimuli at a distance). In a first control experiment the same video-presented stimuli were used but the insect's legs were removed to reduce flickering. In a second control experiment, paper-printed images of the whole insect were used. In both cases, the sideways direction of movement was clearly preferred. Overall, our data show that chicks have a spontaneous preference to peck at video-images resembling live insects moving along their shorter body axis. Sideways movement may constitute a crucial signal attracting chicks' attention and enhancing predatory responses possibly because of stronger stimulation of motion detectors.
Encephalitis lethargica (EL) describes an encephalitis with psychiatric, sleep, and extrapyramidal movement disorders. Dyskinetic and parkinsonian forms have been described. EL shares clinical features with the anti-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR-Ab) encephalitis. We studied 20 sera from pediatric patients with contemporary EL. Ten sera (from 2 males and 8 females, aged 1.3-13 years) and 6/6 cerebrospinal fluid samples were positive for NMDAR-Ab. NMDAR-Ab-positive patients had dyskinesias, agitation, seizures, and insomnia, whereas parkinsonism and somnolence dominated in the NMDAR-Ab-negative children. We were unable to identify any tumors. The dyskinetic form of EL is an NMDAR-Ab encephalitis and can affect very young children.



Alzheimer disease (AD) is the most common cause of age-related dementia, affecting more than 25 million people worldwide. The accumulation of insoluble beta-amyloid (Abeta) plaques in the brain has long been considered central to the pathogenesis of AD. However, recent evidence suggests that soluble oligomeric assemblies of Abeta may be of greater importance. beta-Amyloid oligomers have been found to be potent synaptotoxins, but the mechanism by which they exert their action has remained elusive. Herein, we review the recently published finding that cellular prion protein (PrP(c)) is a high-affinity receptor for Abeta oligomers, mediating their toxic effects on synaptic plasticity. We further discuss the relationship between AD and PrP(c) and the potential clinical implications. Cellular prion protein may provide a novel target for therapeutic intervention in AD.
Sauchinone, a biologically active lignan isolated from Saururus chinensis, has been reported to show cytoprotective, anti-inflammatory and anti-apoptotic effects. However, little study has been done of the anti-ischemic/hypoxic effect of sauchinone. The present study investigates the anti-ischemic/hypoxic effect of sauchinone by using ischemia/hypoxia-sensitive neuronal cells. We found that sauchinone significantly prevented cortical neurons from oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD) followed by re-oxygenation. Sauchinone did not inhibit both NMDA-induced cell membrane depolarization and intracellular calcium influx. We further found that sauchinone cannot directly scavenge reactive oxygen and nitrogen species such as H2O2 and peroxynitrite. Sauchinone, however, greatly reduced the formation of reactive oxygen and nitrogen species in neurons exposed to OGD/reoxygenation and inhibited the depolarization of mitochondrial transmembrane potential induced by OGD/reoxygenation. In accordance with diminishment of endogenous ROS production, sauchinone restored the decreased activities of antioxidant enzymes catalase and SOD evoked by OGD/reoxygenation. Specifically, sauchinone up-regulated the activity of catalase, indicating that sauchinone could be a useful cytoprotectant.
Frequency- and amplitude-modulated (FM and AM) sounds are the building blocks of complex sounds. In the present study, we investigated the ability of human observers to process spatial information in an important class of FM sounds: broadband directional sweeps common in natural communication signals such as speech. The stimuli consisted of linear or logarithmic unidirectional FM pulses that swept either up or down in frequency at various rates. Spatial localization thresholds monotonically improved as sweep duration decreased and as sweep rate increased, but no difference in performance was observed between logarithmic and linear or between up- and down-frequency sweeps. Counterintuitive reversals in localization were observed which suggested that the localization of high-frequency sweeps may be strongly dominated by amplitude information even in situations in which one might consider timing cues to be critical. Implications of these findings for the localization of complex sounds are discussed.
When ATP levels in a cell decrease, various homeostatic intracellular mechanisms initiate attempts to restore ATP levels. As a prominent energy sensor, AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) represents one molecular gauge that links energy levels to regulation of anabolic and catabolic processes to restore energy balance. Although pharmacological studies have suggested that an AMPK activator, AIC AR (5-aminoimidazole-4-carboxamide ribonucleoside) may link AMPK activation to autophagy, a process that can provide short-term energy within the cell, AICAR can have AMPK-independent effects. Therefore, using a genetic-based approach we investigated the role of AMPK in cellular energy balance. We demonstrate that genetically altered cells, mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs), lacking functional AMPK, display altered energy balance under basal conditions and die prematurely under low glucose-serum starvation challenge. These AMPK mutant cells appear to be abnormally reliant on autophagy under low glucose basal conditions, and therefore cannot rely further on autophagy like wild-type cells during further energetic stress and instead undergo apoptosis. This data suggests that AMPK helps regulate basal energy levels under low glucose. Further, AMPK mutant cells show increased basal phosphorylation of p53 at serine 15, a residue phosphorylated under glucose deprivation. We propose that cells lacking AMPK function have altered p53 activity that may help sensitize these cells to apoptosis under energetic stress.
Elite athletes, body builders and adolescents misuse anabolic-androgenic steroids (AAS) in order to increase muscle mass or to enhance physical endurance and braveness. The high doses misused are associated with numerous adverse effects. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the impact of chronic supratherapeutic AAS treatment on circulating hormones and gene expression in peripheral tissues related to such adverse effects. Quantitative real-time PCR was used to measure expression levels of in total 37 genes (including peptide hormones, cell membrane receptors, nuclear receptors, steroid synthesising enzymes and other enzymes) in the pituitary, testes, adrenals, adipose tissue, kidneys and liver of male Sprague-Dawley rats after 14-day administration of the AAS nandrolone decanoate, 3 or 15 mg/kg. Plasma glucose and levels of adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH), adiponectin, corticosterone, ghrelin, insulin and leptin were also measured. We found several expected effects on the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis, while the treatment also caused a number of other not previously identified changes in circulating factors and gene transcription levels such as the dose-dependent reduction of the beta(3)-adrenergic receptor in adipose tissue, reduction of both circulating and mRNA levels of adiponectin, up-regulation of both hydroxymethylglutaryl-CoA-reductase, the rate-limiting enzyme in de novo synthesis of cholesterol, and the receptor for ACTH in the adrenals. The results provide evidence for wide ranging effects of AAS on the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, adipose tissue and substrates of the renal control of blood pressure.
Acoustic startle response and its plasticity, e.g., habituation and prepulse inhibition (PPI), have been extensively investigated, being altered in several neuropsychiatric disorders. Yet, little is known about the expression of startle-related behaviors during adolescence, a critical phase in the development of a variety of major neuropsychiatric pathologies. The present study investigated for the first time startle behaviors across adolescence in male mice of the inbred strains C57BL/6J and DBA/2J. Pre-pubertal (4 weeks of age) mice displayed reduced startle reactivity and altered PPI compared to adult animals (8 weeks of age), but these effects were observed only in the C57BL/6J strain. Strain differences were also clearly detected for startle response, habituation, and PPI. All effects were modulated by the intensity of the pulse stimulus and were not confounded by differences in anxiety levels. Our data demonstrate that genetic factors and the early adolescent phase are critically important considerations in the design of mouse models of neuropsychiatric disturbances.
We applied a neural network model of classical conditioning proposed by Schmajuk et al. (1996) to visual signal detection and discrimination tasks designed to assess sustained attention in rats (Bushnell, 1999). We used a sign-tracking description of signal detection behavior by assuming that rats approach the location of the lever that they expect will be rewarded. We also assumed that although the visual signals contribute to set the occasion for the approach response to be generated, they do not become strongly associated with reward. The model accurately described Bushnell's (1999) results showing an increased proportion of hits with increasing signal intensity, decreased proportion of hits with increasing trial rate, and lower accuracy in a discrimination task compared to a detection task. In addition, observation of the behavior of rats performing the task confirmed assumptions and predictions of the model: (a) rats learn to approach the location of the lever they expect to be rewarded; (b) during the pre-signal interval, rats approach the location of the blank lever because it matches the intensity of the light they experience during that interval; and (c) the rats' behavior is directed to the location of the levers and not towards the light, which acts only as an &quot;occasion setter&quot; for the lever to be selected and pressed.
Stereotypies are repetitive, unvarying and goalless behaviour patterns that are often considered indicative of poor welfare in captive animals. Quantifying stereotypies can be difficult, particularly during the early stages of their development when behaviour is still flexible. We compared two methods for objectively quantifying the development of route-tracing stereotypies in caged starlings. We used Markov chains and T-pattern analysis (implemented by the software package, Theme) to identify patterns in the sequence of locations a bird occupied within its cage. Pattern metrics produced by both methods correlated with the frequency of established measures of stereotypic behaviour and abnormal behaviour patterns counted from video recordings, suggesting that both methods could be useful for identifying stereotypic individuals and quantifying stereotypic behaviour. We discuss the relative benefits and disadvantages of the two approaches.
Brain monoaminergic systems play critical roles in mood, cognition, emotion, reward, learning and attention, and aberrance in brain monoaminergic activity is associated with a variety of neuropsychiatric disorders/diseases. The present commentary focuses on trace amine-associated receptor 1 (TAAR1) and its potential regulatory roles in brain monoaminergic systems. TAAR1 was discovered in 2001 and has been established to be a G-protein-coupled receptor signaling through the cAMP pathway. This receptor is activated by a broad spectrum of agonists, although there are notable species differences in ligand efficacy and potency. TAAR1 is expressed and widely distributed in brain monoaminergic systems and co-localized with the dopamine transporter in a subset of dopaminergic neurons in rhesus monkey and mouse brain substantia nigra. TAAR1 activation by the common biogenic amines, the trace amine beta-phenylethylamine and methamphetamine alters the monoamine transporter function in both mouse and rhesus monkey brain synaptosomes, suggesting a modulatory role for this receptor in the presynaptic regulation of monoaminergic activity. However, little is known about other functional roles of TAAR1 in the brain. With a purpose to promote further studies on this receptor, we herein discuss the recent findings that provide insights into the functional significance and biological relevance of this receptor as a modulator in brain monoaminergic systems.
Mitochondria play a pivotal role in intracellular Ca(2+) signalling by taking up and releasing the ion upon specific conditions. In order to do so, mitochondria depend on a number of factors, such as the mitochondrial membrane potential and spatio-temporal constraints. Whereas most of the basic principles underlying mitochondrial Ca(2+) handling have been successfully deciphered over the last 50 years using assays based on in vitro preparations of mitochondria or cultured cells, we have only just started to understand the actual physiological relevance of these processes in the whole animal. Recent advancements in imaging and genetically encoded sensor technologies have allowed us to visualise mitochondrial Ca(2+) transients in live mice. These studies used either two-photon microscopy or bioluminescence imaging of cameleon or aequorin-GFP Ca(2+) sensors, respectively. Both methods revealed a consistent picture of Ca(2+) uptake into mitochondria under physiological conditions even during very short-lasting elevations of cytosolic Ca(2+) levels. The big future challenge is to understand the functional impact of such Ca(2+) signals on the physiology of the observed tissue as well as of the whole organism. To that end, the development of multiparametric in vivo approaches will be mandatory.
The orchestrated expression of genes is essential for the development and survival of every organism. In addition to the role of transcription factors, the availability of genes for transcription is controlled by a series of proteins that regulate epigenetic chromatin remodeling. The two most studied epigenetic phenomena are DNA methylation and histone-tail modifications. Although a large body of literature implicates the deregulation of histone acetylation and DNA methylation with the pathogenesis of cancer, recently epigenetic mechanisms have also gained much attention in the neuroscientific community. In fact, a new field of research is rapidly emerging and there is now accumulating evidence that the molecular machinery that regulates histone acetylation and DNA methylation is intimately involved in synaptic plasticity and is essential for learning and memory. Importantly, dysfunction of epigenetic gene expression in the brain might be involved in neurodegenerative and psychiatric diseases. In particular, it was found that inhibition of histone deacetylases attenuates synaptic and neuronal loss in animal models for various neurodegenerative diseases and improves cognitive function. In this article, we will summarize recent data in the novel field of neuroepigenetics and discuss the question why epigenetic strategies are suitable therapeutic approaches for the treatment of brain diseases.


The selectivity of noise and coupling for coherence biresonance (CBR) and array-enhanced coherence biresonance (AECBR) in coupled neural systems has been investigated. It is shown that, depending on the coupling strength and noise intensity, various coherence behaviors and phenomena are exhibited, including CBR, coherence resonance without tuning, AECBR and undamped signal transmission. There exist optimal coupling and noise regions for the occurrence of CBR and AECBR in the transmission of noise-induced oscillations (NIOs).
Neurons, one of the most polarized types of cells, are typically composed of cell bodies (soma), dendrites, and axons. Many events such as electric signal transmission, axonal transport, and local protein synthesis occur in the axon, so that a method for isolating axons from somata and dendrites is required for systematically investigating these axonal events. Based on a previously developed neuron culture method for isolating and directing the growth of central nervous system axons without introducing neutrophins, we report three modified microfluidic platforms: (1) for performing biochemical analysis of the pure axonal fraction, (2) for culturing tissue explants, and (3) a design that allows high content assay on same group of cells. The key feature of these newly developed platforms is that the devices incorporate a number of microgrooves for isolating axons from the cell body. They utilize an open cellculture area, unlike the enclosed channels of the previous design. This design has extended the axonal channel so that a sufficient amount of pure axonal fraction can be obtained to perform biochemical analysis. The design also addresses the drawback of the previous neuron culture device, which was not adaptable for culturing thick neuronal tissues such as brain explants, neurospheres, and embryoid bodies, which are essential model tissues in neuroscience research. The design has an open cellculture area in the center and four enclosed channels around open area, and is suitable for multiple drug screening assays.





Chordomas usually arise in bone and are most commonly found in the midline axial skeleton. An accurate pre-operative diagnosis of chordoma is crucial, as survival is optimal when radical en bloc resection is performed at primary surgery. We report a rare case of cervical chordoma masquerading radiologically as an extracranial nerve sheath tumour. A laterally situated chordoma (centred extra-osseously in the neural foramen) was diagnosed radiologically as a neurofibroma pre-operatively. We review the key radiological features for diagnosis of chordoma. We consider the importance of pre-operative diagnosis of chordoma in guiding management and in determining survival.
Cognitive abnormalities are common in Parkinson's disease, with important social and economic implications. Factors influencing their evolution remain unclear but are crucial to the development of targeted therapeutic strategies. We have investigated the development of cognitive impairment and dementia in Parkinson's disease using a longitudinal approach in a population-representative incident cohort (CamPaIGN study, n = 126) and here present the 5-year follow-up data from this study. Our previous work has implicated two genetic factors in the development of cognitive dysfunction in Parkinson's disease, namely the genes for catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT Val(158)Met) and microtubule-associated protein tau (MAPT) H1/H2. Here, we have explored the influence of these genes in our incident cohort and an additional cross-sectional prevalent cohort (n = 386), and investigated the effect of MAPT H1/H2 haplotypes on tau transcription in post-mortem brain samples from patients with Lewy body disease and controls. Seventeen percent of incident patients developed dementia over 5 years [incidence 38.7 (23.9-59.3) per 1000 person-years]. We have demonstrated that three baseline measures, namely, age &gt;or=72 years, semantic fluency less than 20 words in 90 s and inability to copy an intersecting pentagons figure, are significant predictors of dementia risk, thus validating our previous findings. In combination, these factors had an odds ratio of 88 for dementia within the first 5 years from diagnosis and may reflect the syndrome of mild cognitive impairment of Parkinson's disease. Phonemic fluency and other frontally based tasks were not associated with dementia risk. MAPT H1/H1 genotype was an independent predictor of dementia risk (odds ratio = 12.1) and the H1 versus H2 haplotype was associated with a 20% increase in transcription of 4-repeat tau in Lewy body disease brains. In contrast, COMT genotype had no effect on dementia, but a significant impact on Tower of London performance, a frontostriatally based executive task, which was dynamic, such that the ability to solve this task changed with disease progression. Hence, we have identified three highly informative predictors of dementia in Parkinson's disease, which can be easily translated into the clinic, and established that MAPT H1/H1 genotype is an important risk factor with functional effects on tau transcription. Our work suggests that the dementing process in Parkinson's disease is predictable and related to tau while frontal-executive dysfunction evolves independently with a more dopaminergic basis and better prognosis.
Inhibition of central nervous system axon growth is reportedly mediated in part by calcium-dependent phosphorylation of axonal epidermal growth factor receptor, with local administration of the epidermal growth factor receptor kinase inhibitors AG1478 and PD168393 to an optic nerve lesion site promoting adult retinal ganglion cell axon regeneration. Here, we show that epidermal growth factor receptor was neither constitutively expressed, nor activated in optic nerve axons in our non-regenerating and regenerating optic nerve injury models, a finding that is inconsistent with phosphorylated epidermal growth factor receptor-dependent intra-axonal signalling of central nervous system myelin-related axon growth inhibitory ligands. However, epidermal growth factor receptor was localized and activated within most glia in the retina and optic nerve post-injury, and thus an indirect glial-dependent mechanism for stimulated retinal ganglion cell axon growth by epidermal growth factor receptor inhibitors seemed plausible. Using primary retinal cultures with added central nervous system myelin extracts, we confirmed previous reports that AG1478/PD168393 blocks epidermal growth factor receptor activation and promotes disinhibited neurite outgrowth. Paradoxically, neurites did not grow in central nervous system myelin extract-containing cultures after short interfering ribonucleic acid-mediated knockdown of epidermal growth factor receptor. However, addition of AG1478 restored neurite outgrowth to short interfering ribonucleic acid-treated cultures, implying that epidermal growth factor receptor does not mediate AG1478-dependent effects. TrkA-/B-/C-Fc fusion proteins and the kinase blocker K252a abrogated the neuritogenic activity in these cultures, correlating with the presence of the neurotrophins brain derived neurotrophic factor, nerve growth factor and neurotrophin-3 in the supernatant and increased intracellular cyclic adenosine monophosphate activity. Neurotrophins released by AG1478 stimulated disinhibited retinal ganglion cell axon growth in central nervous system myelin-treated cultures by the induction of regulated intramembraneous proteolysis of p75(NTR) and Rho inactivation. Retinal astrocytes/Mller cells and retinal ganglion cells were the source of neurotrophins, with neurite outgrowth halved in the presence of glial inhibitors. We attribute AG1478-stimulated neuritogenesis to the induced release of neurotrophins together with raised cyclic adenosine monophosphate levels in treated cultures, leading to axon growth and disinhibition by neurotrophin-induced regulated intramembraneous proteolysis of p75(NTR). These off-target effects of epidermal growth factor receptor kinase inhibition suggest a novel therapeutic approach for designing treatments to promote central nervous system axon regeneration.
Affective neuroscience has been strongly influenced by the view that a 'feeling' is the perception of somatic changes and has consequently often neglected the neural mechanisms that underlie the integration of somatic and other information in affective experience. Here, we investigate affective processing by means of functional magnetic resonance imaging in nine cortically blind patients. In these patients, unilateral postgeniculate lesions prevent primary cortical visual processing in part of the visual field which, as a result, becomes subjectively blind. Residual subcortical processing of visual information, however, is assumed to occur in the entire visual field. As we have reported earlier, these patients show significant startle reflex potentiation when a threat-related visual stimulus is shown in their blind visual field. Critically, this was associated with an increase of brain activity in somatosensory-related areas, and an increase in experienced negative affect. Here, we investigated the patients' response when the visual stimulus was shown in the sighted visual field, that is, when it was visible and cortically processed. Despite the fact that startle reflex potentiation was similar in the blind and sighted visual field, patients reported significantly less negative affect during stimulation of the sighted visual field. In other words, when the visual stimulus was visible and received full cortical processing, the patients' phenomenal experience of affect did not closely reflect somatic changes. This decoupling of phenomenal affective experience and somatic changes was associated with an increase of activity in the left ventrolateral prefrontal cortex and a decrease of affect-related somatosensory activity. Moreover, patients who showed stronger left ventrolateral prefrontal cortex activity tended to show a stronger decrease of affect-related somatosensory activity. Our findings show that similar affective somatic changes can be associated with different phenomenal experiences of affect, depending on the depth of cortical processing. They are in line with a model in which the left ventrolateral prefrontal cortex is a relay station that integrates information about subcortically triggered somatic responses and information resulting from in-depth cortical stimulus processing. Tentatively, we suggest that the observed decoupling of somatic responses and experienced affect, and the reduction of negative phenomenal experience, can be explained by a left ventrolateral prefrontal cortex-mediated inhibition of affect-related somatosensory activity.
Following upper limb peripheral nerve transection and surgical repair, some patients regain good sensorimotor function while others do not. Understanding peripheral and central mechanisms that contribute to recovery may facilitate the development of new therapeutic interventions. Plasticity following peripheral nerve transection has been demonstrated throughout the neuroaxis in animal models of nerve injury. However, the brain changes that occur following peripheral nerve transection and surgical repair in humans have not been examined. Furthermore, the extent to which peripheral nerve regeneration influences functional and structural brain changes has not been characterized. Therefore, we asked whether functional changes are accompanied by grey and/or white matter structural changes and whether these changes relate to sensory recovery? To address these key issues we (i) assessed peripheral nerve regeneration; (ii) measured functional magnetic resonance imaging brain activation (blood oxygen level dependent signal; BOLD) in response to a vibrotactile stimulus; (iii) examined grey and white matter structural brain plasticity; and (iv) correlated sensory recovery measures with grey matter changes in peripheral nerve transection and surgical repair patients. Compared to each patient's healthy contralesional nerve, transected nerves have impaired nerve conduction 1.5 years after transection and repair, conducting with decreased amplitude and increased latency. Compared to healthy controls, peripheral nerve transection and surgical repair patients had altered blood oxygen level dependent signal activity in the contralesional primary and secondary somatosensory cortices, and in a set of brain areas known as the 'task positive network'. In addition, grey matter reductions were identified in several brain areas, including the contralesional primary and secondary somatosensory cortices, in the same areas where blood oxygen level dependent signal reductions were identified. Furthermore, grey matter thinning in the post-central gyrus was negatively correlated with measures of sensory recovery (mechanical and vibration detection) demonstrating a clear link between function and structure. Finally, we identified reduced white matter fractional anisotropy in the right insula in a region that also demonstrated reduced grey matter. These results provide insight into brain plasticity and structure-function-behavioural relationships following nerve injury and have important therapeutic implications.
We investigated the role of prefrontal cortex (PFC) in local contextual processing using a combined event-related potentials and lesion approach. Local context was defined as the occurrence of a short predictive series of visual stimuli occurring before delivery of a target event. Targets were preceded by either randomized sequences of standards or by sequences including a three-stimulus predictive sequence signalling the occurrence of a subsequent target event. PFC lesioned patients were impaired in their ability to use local contextual information. The response time for controls revealed a larger benefit for predictable targets than for random targets relative to PFC patients. PFC patients had reduced amplitude of a context-dependent positivity and failed to generate the expected P3b latency shift between predictive and non-predictive targets. These findings show that PFC patients are unable to utilize predictive local context to guide behaviour, providing evidence for a critical role of PFC in local contextual processing.
Magnetoencephalography (MEG) is considered a useful tool for planning electrode placement for chronic intracranial subdural electrocorticography (ECoG) in candidates for epilepsy surgery or even as a substitute for ECoG. MEG recordings are usually interictal and therefore, at best, reflect the interictal ECoG. To estimate the clinical value of MEG, it is important to know how well interictal MEG reflects interictal activity in the ECoG. From 1998 to 2008, 38 candidates for ECoG underwent a 151-channel MEG recording and 3D magnetic resonance imaging as a part of their presurgical evaluation. Interictal MEG spikes were identified, clustered, averaged and modelled using the multiple signal classification algorithm and co-registered to magnetic resonance imaging. ECoG was continuously recorded with electrode grids and strips for approximately 1 week. In a representative sample of awake interictal ECoG, interictal spikes were identified and averaged. The different spikes were characterized and quantified using a combined amplitude and synchronous surface-area measure. The ECoG spikes were ranked according to this measure and plotted on the magnetic resonance imaging surface rendering. Interictal spikes in MEG and ECoG were allocated to a predefined anatomical brain region and an association analysis was performed. All interictal MEG spikes were associated with an interictal ECoG spike. Overall, 56% of all interictal ECoG spikes had an interictal MEG counterpart. The association between the two was &gt;or=90% in the interhemispheric and frontal orbital region, approximately 75% in the superior frontal, central and lateral temporal regions, but only approximately 25% in the mesial temporal region. MEG is a reliable indicator of the presence of interictal ECoG spikes and can be used to plan intracranial electrode placements. However, a substantial number of interictal ECoG spikes are not detected by MEG, and therefore MEG cannot be considered a substitute for ECoG.

Semantic dementia (SD) is a clinical syndrome characterized by progressive loss of semantic memory/ conceptual knowledge and by bilateral, but usually asymmetric, atrophy of the anterior temporal lobes (ATLS). On the basis of the neuropsychological findings of SD, the two theoretical implications for the organization of semantic memory have been suggested. First, selective impairment of semantic memory in the early stages of SD contrasts with the isolated loss of episodic memory in patients with damage to the medial temporal lobes and other Papez's circuit components. This double dissociation provides empirical evidence for fractionation of explicit memory into the two subsystems with different neural underpinnings. Second, the multimodal nature of semantic deficits in SD leads to a seminal view that semantic memory is organized as an amodal system. The ATLs play a pivotal role as a 'convergence zone' or 'semantic hub' integrating abundant verbal and perceptual attributes that are represented in the posterior temporal and temporo-occipital cortices. To develop further comprehensive theories regarding semantic memory, we should understand differential roles of the left and right ATLs and clarify the clinicoanatomical relationship between verbal, visual, and emotional aspects of semantic memory loss and the detailed anatomical localization of the lesions.
Many studies have attempted to identify neuropsychological tests that could distinguish frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) from other types of dementia. Although some measures of frontal lobe function, memory, language, visuospatial function and, general cognitive ability revealed significant differences between FTLD and other types of dementia, there was a large overlap in the test performance among these groups. Therefore, neuropsychological tests should be used in conjunction with clinical and radiological findings to identify FTLD patients. However, suitably selected neuropsychological tests can be useful to monitor the temporal changes in cognitive function in each FTLD patient and to compare the clinical features of this disorder with other types of dementia.
Growing consistent evidence indicates that hypofunction of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) transmission plays a pivotal role in the neuropathophysiology of schizophrenia. Hence, drugs which modulate NMDA neurotransmission are promising approaches to the treatment of schizophrenia. The aim of this article is to review clinical trials with novel compounds acting on the NMDA receptor (NMDA-R). This review also includes a discussion and translation of neuroscience into schizophrenia therapeutics. Although the precise mechanism of action of minocycline in the brain remains unclear, there is evidence that it blocks the neurotoxicity of NMDA antagonists and may exert a differential effect on NMDA signaling pathways. We, therefore, hypothesize that the effects of minocycline on the brain may be partially modulated by the NMDA-R or related mechanisms. Thus, we have included a review of minocycline neuroscience. The search was performed in the PubMed, Web of Science, SciELO, and Lilacs databases. The results of glycine and D-cycloserine trials were conflicting regarding effectiveness on the negative and cognitive symptoms of schizophrenia. D-serine and D-alanine showed a potential effect on negative symptoms and on cognitive deficits. Sarcosine data indicated a considerable improvement as adjunctive therapy. Finally, minocycline add-on treatment appears to be effective on a broad range of psychopathology in patients with schizophrenia. The differential modulation of NMDA-R neurosystems, in particular synaptic versus extrasynaptic NMDA-R activation and specific subtypes of NMDA-R, may be the key mediators of neurogenesis and neuroprotection. Thus, psychotropics modulating NMDA-R neurotransmission may represent future monotherapy or add-on treatment strategies in the treatment of schizophrenia.
Febrile seizures (FSs) are seizures that occur during fever, usually at the time of a cold or flu, and represent the most common cause of seizures in the pediatric population. Up to 5% of children between the ages of six months and five years-of-age will experience a FS. Clinically these seizures are categorized as benign events with little impact on the growth and development of the child. However, studies have linked the occurrence of FSs to an increased risk of developing adult epileptic disorders. There are many unanswered questions about FSs, such as the mechanism of their generation, the long-term effects of these seizures, and their role in epileptogenesis. Answers are beginning to emerge based on results from animal studies. This review summarizes the current literature on animal models of FSs, mechanisms underlying the seizures, and functional, structural, and molecular changes that may result from them.
Catecholamine-regulated proteins (CRPs) have been shown to bind dopamine and other structurally related catecholamines; in particular, the 40-kDa CRP (CRP40) protein has been previously cloned and functionally characterized. To determine putative human homologs, BLAST analysis using the bovine CRP40 sequence identified a human established sequence tag (EST) with significant homology (accession #BQ224193). Using this EST, we cloned a recombinant human brain CRP40-like protein, which possessed chaperone activity. Radiolabeled dopamine binding studies with recombinant human CRP40 protein demonstrated the ability of this protein to bind dopamine with low affinity and high capacity. The full-length human CRP40 nucleotide sequence was elucidated (accession #DQ480334) with RNA ligase-mediated rapid amplification of complementary DNA ends polymerase chain reaction, while Northern blot hybridization suggested that human CRP40 is an alternative splice variant of the 70-kDa mitochondrial heat shock protein, mortalin. Human SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells treated with the antipsychotic drug, haloperidol, exhibited a significant increase in CRP40 messenger RNA expression compared to untreated control cells, while other dopamine agonists/antagonists also altered CRP40 expression and immunolocalization. In conclusion, these results show that we have cloned a splice variant of mortalin with a novel catecholamine binding function and that this chaperone-like protein may be neuroprotective in dopamine-related central nervous system disorders.
Whilst mainstream transplant literature provides valuable insights into the influences on families to donate organs and tissues for transplant, the relevance of these findings in relation to organ donation for research remain speculative. The present study aims to expand the research donation literature, by exploring factors that influence a family's decision to donate brain tissue to neuroscience research. The verbal responses of the senior available next-of-kin (NOK), to the question of brain donation for research, are analysed. The donation rate was high (54%) over the 5-year-period. NOK relationship to the deceased, and post mortem interval were the main factors associated with a positive donation. Parents were most likely to donate and this may result from a lifetime of decision-making on behalf of the deceased. Also, the longer the interval between death of the potential donor and the question being asked, the greater the likelihood of donation.
The efficacy of a 6-day regimen of frovatriptan for menstrual migraine (MM; attacks starting on day -2 to +3 of menses) prevention in women with difficult-to-treat MM was assessed. Women with a documented inadequate response to triptans for acute MM treatment were included in this placebo-controlled, parallel-group trial. Women were randomized to double-blind treatment for three perimenstrual periods (PMPs) with either frovatriptan 2.5 mg (q.d. or b.i.d.) or placebo initiated 2 days before anticipated MM. The efficacy analysis included 410 women with 85% completing three double-blind PMPs. The mean number of headache-free PMPs was 0.92 with frovatriptan b.i.d., 0.69 with frovatriptan q.d. and 0.42 with placebo [P &lt; 0.001 (b.i.d.) and P &lt; 0.02 (q.d.) vs. placebo]. When migraine occurred, severity was reduced with frovatriptan q.d. (P &lt; 0.001) and b.i.d. (P &lt; 0.001) vs. placebo. Both frovatriptan regimens were well tolerated. In women with difficult-to-treat MM, a 6-day regimen of frovatriptan significantly reduced MM incidence and severity.
To delineate if the change in cortical excitability persists across migraine attacks, visual evoked magnetic fields (VEF) were measured in patients with migraine without aura during the interictal (n = 26) or peri-ictal (n = 21) periods, and were compared with 30 healthy controls. The visual stimuli were checkerboard reversals with four different check sizes (15', 30', 60' and 120'). For each check size, five sequential blocks of 50 VEF responses were recorded to calculate the percentage change of the P100m amplitude in the second to the fifth blocks in comparison with the first block. At check size 120', interictal patients showed a larger amplitude increment than controls [28.1 +/- 38.3% (s.d.) vs. 8.7 +/- 21.3%] in the second block and a larger increment than peri-ictal patients in the second (28.1 +/- 38.3% vs. -3.2 +/- 19.2%), fourth (22.7 +/- 31.2% vs. -5.7 +/- 22.3%) and fifth (20.5 +/- 30.4% vs. -10.8 +/- 30.1%) blocks (P &lt; 0.05). There was no significant difference at other check sizes or between peri-ictal patients and controls. In conclusion, there may be peri-ictal normalization of visual cortical excitability changes in migraine that is dependent on the spatial frequency of the stimuli and reflects a dynamic modulation of cortical activities.
The prefrontal cortex (PFC) has a central role in working memory (WM). Resistance to distraction is considered a fundamental feature of WM and PFC neuronal activity. However, although unexpected stimuli often disrupt our work, little is known about the underlying neuronal mechanisms involved. In the present study, we investigated whether irregularly presented distracters disrupt WM task performance and underlying neuronal activity. We recorded single neuron activity in the PFC of 2 monkeys performing WM tasks and investigated effects of auditory and visual distracters on WM performance and neuronal activity. Distracters impaired memory task performance and affected PFC neuronal activity. Distraction that was of the same sensory modality as the memorandum was more likely to impair WM performance and interfere with memory-related neuronal activity than information that was of a different sensory modality. The study also shows that neurons not involved in memory processing in less demanding conditions may become engaged in WM processing in more demanding conditions. The study demonstrates that WM performance and underlying neuronal activity are vulnerable to irregular distracters and suggests that the PFC has mechanisms that help to compensate for disruptive effects of external distracters.
Feedback inhibition of the amygdala via medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) is an important component in the regulation of complex emotional behaviors. The functional dynamics of this corticolimbic circuitry are, in part, modulated by serotonin (5-HT). Serotonin 2A (5-HT(2A)) receptors within the mPFC represent a potential molecular mechanism through which 5-HT can modulate this corticolimbic circuitry. We employed a multimodal neuroimaging strategy to explore the relationship between threat-related amygdala reactivity, assessed using blood oxygen level-dependent functional magnetic resonance imaging, and mPFC 5-HT(2A) density, assessed using [(18)F]altanserin positron emission tomography in 35 healthy adult volunteers. We observed a significant inverse relationship wherein greater mPFC 5-HT(2A) density was associated with reduced threat-related right amygdala reactivity. Remarkably, 25-37% of the variability in amygdala reactivity was explained by mPFC 5-HT(2A) density. We also observed a positive correlation between mPFC 5-HT(2A) density and the magnitude of right amygdala habituation. Furthermore, functional coupling between the amygdala and mPFC was positively correlated with 5-HT(2A) density suggesting that effective integration of emotionally salient information within this corticolimbic circuitry may be modulated, at least in part, by mPFC 5-HT(2A). Collectively, our results indicate that mPFC 5-HT(2A) is strongly associated with threat-related amygdala reactivity as well as its temporal habituation and functional coupling with prefrontal regulatory regions.
This study investigated neural processing interactions during Stroop interference by varying the temporal separation of relevant and irrelevant features of congruent, neutral, and incongruent colored-bar/color-word stimulus components. High-density event-related potentials (ERPs) and behavioral performance were measured as participants reported the bar color as quickly as possible, while ignoring the color words. The task-irrelevant color words could appear at 1 of 5 stimulus onset asynchronies (SOAs) relative to the task-relevant bar-color occurrence: -200 or -100 ms before, +100 or +200 ms after, or simultaneously. Incongruent relative to congruent presentations elicited slower reaction times and higher error rates (with neutral in between), and ERP difference waves containing both an early, negative-polarity, central-parietal deflection, and a later, more left-sided, positive-polarity component. These congruency-related differences interacted with SOA, showing the greatest behavioral and electrophysiological effects when irrelevant stimulus information preceded the task-relevant target and reduced effects when the irrelevant information followed the relevant target. We interpret these data as reflecting 2 separate processes: 1) a 'priming influence' that enhances the magnitude of conflict-related facilitation and conflict-related interference when a task-relevant target is preceded by an irrelevant distractor; and 2) a reduced 'backward influence' of stimulus conflict when the irrelevant distractor information follows the task-relevant target.
There is emerging evidence that alterations in dopaminergic transmission can influence semantic processing, yet the neural mechanisms involved are unknown. The influence of levodopa (L-DOPA) on semantic priming was investigated in healthy individuals (n = 20) using event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging with a randomized, double-blind crossover design. Critical prime-target pairs consisted of a lexical ambiguity prime and 1) a target related to the dominant meaning of the prime (e.g., bank-money), 2) a target related to the subordinate meaning (e.g., fence-sword), or 3) an unrelated target (e.g., ball-desk). Behavioral data showed that both dominant and subordinate meanings were primed on placebo. In contrast, there was preserved priming of dominant meanings and no significant priming of subordinate meanings on L-DOPA, the latter associated with decreased anterior cingulate and dorsal prefrontal cortex activity. Dominant meaning activation on L-DOPA was associated with increased activity in the left rolandic operculum and left middle temporal gyrus. These findings suggest that L-DOPA enhances frequency-based semantic focus via prefrontal and temporal modulation of automatic semantic priming and through engagement of anterior cingulate mechanisms supporting attentional/controlled priming.
Although it is largely agreed that phonological processing deficits are a major cause of poor reading, the neural origins of phonological processing are not well understood. We now show, for the first time, that phonological decoding, measured with a test of single-nonword reading, is significantly correlated with the timing of subcortical auditory processing and also, to a lesser extent, with the robustness of subcortical representation of the harmonic content of speech, but not with pitch encoding. The relationships we observe between reading and subcortical processing fall along a continuum, with poor readers at one end and good readers at the other. These data suggest that reading skill may depend on the integrity of subcortical auditory mechanisms and are consistent with the idea that subcortical representation of the acoustic features of speech may play a role in normal reading as well as in the development of reading disorders. These data establish a significant link between subcortical auditory function and reading, thereby contributing to the understanding of the biological bases of reading. At a more general level, these findings are among the first to establish a direct relationship between subcortical sensory function and a specific cognitive skill (reading). We argue that this relationship between cortical and subcortical function could be shaped during development by the corticofugal pathway and that this cortical-subcortical link could contribute to the phonological processing deficits experienced by poor readers.
Category and letter fluency tasks are commonly used clinically to investigate the semantic and phonological processes central to speech production, but the neural correlates of these processes are difficult to establish with functional neuroimaging because of the relatively unconstrained nature of the tasks. This study investigated whether differential performance on semantic (category) and phonemic (letter) fluency in neurologically normal participants was reflected in regional gray matter density. The participants were 59 highly proficient speakers of 2 languages. Our findings corroborate the importance of the left inferior temporal cortex in semantic relative to phonemic fluency and show this effect to be the same in a first language (L1) and second language (L2). Additionally, we show that the pre-supplementary motor area (pre-SMA) and head of caudate bilaterally are associated with phonemic more than semantic fluency, and this effect is stronger for L2 than L1 in the caudate nuclei. To further validate these structural results, we reanalyzed previously reported functional data and found that pre-SMA and left caudate activation was higher for phonemic than semantic fluency. On the basis of our findings, we also predict that lesions to the pre-SMA and caudate nuclei may have a greater impact on phonemic than semantic fluency, particularly in L2 speakers.
We examined the stimulus-response profile during single-pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) by measuring motor-evoked potentials (MEPs) with electromyographic monitoring and hemodynamic responses with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) at 3 Tesla. In 16 healthy subjects, single TMS pulses were irregularly delivered to the left primary motor cortex at a mean frequency of 0.15 Hz with a wide range of stimulus intensities. The measurement of MEP proved a typical relationship between stimulus intensity and MEP amplitude in the concurrent TMS-fMRI environment. In the population-level analysis of the suprathreshold stimulation conditions, significant increases in hemodynamic responses were detected in the motor/somatosensory network, reflecting both direct and remote effects of TMS, and also the auditory/cognitive areas, perhaps related to detection of clicks. The stimulus-response profile showed both linear and nonlinear components in the direct and remote motor/somatosensory network. A detailed analysis suggested that the nonlinear components of the motor/somatosensory network activity might be induced by nonlinear recruitment of neurons in addition to sensory afferents resulting from movement. These findings expand our basic knowledge of the quantitative relationship between TMS-induced neural activations and hemodynamic signals measured by neuroimaging techniques.
The somatodendritic subthreshold A-type K(+) current in neurons (I(SA)) depends on its kinetic and voltage-dependent properties to regulate membrane excitability, action potential repetitive firing, and signal integration. Key functional properties of the K(V)4 channel complex underlying I(SA) are determined by dipeptidyl peptidase-like proteins known as dipeptidyl peptidase 6 (DPP6) and dipeptidyl peptidase 10 (DPP10). Among the multiple known DPP10 isoforms with alternative N-terminal sequences, DPP10a confers exceptionally fast inactivation to K(V)4.2 channels. To elucidate the molecular basis of this fast inactivation, we investigated the structure-function relationship of the DPP10a N-terminal region and its interaction with the K(V)4.2 channel. Here, we show that DPP10a shares a conserved N-terminal sequence (MNQTA) with DPP6a (aka DPP6-E), which also induces fast inactivation. Deletion of the NQTA sequence in DPP10a eliminates this dramatic fast inactivation, and perfusion of MNQTA peptide to the cytoplasmic face of inside-out patches inhibits the K(V)4.2 current. DPP10a-induced fast inactivation exhibits competitive interactions with internally applied tetraethylammonium (TEA), and elevating the external K(+) concentration accelerates recovery from DPP10a-mediated fast inactivation. These results suggest that fast inactivation induced by DPP10a or DPP6a is mediated by a common N-terminal inactivation motif via a pore-blocking mechanism. This mechanism may offer an attractive target for novel pharmacological interventions directed at impairing I(SA) inactivation and reducing neuronal excitability.
Purkinje neurons fire spontaneous action potentials at 50 spikes/sec and generate more than 100 spikes/sec during cerebellum-mediated behaviors. Many voltage-gated channels, including Ca channels, can inactivate and/or facilitate with repeated stimulation, raising the question of how these channels respond to regular, rapid trains of depolarizations. To test whether Ca currents are modulated during firing, we recorded voltage-clamped Ca currents, predominantly carried by P-type Ca channels, from acutely dissociated mouse Purkinje neurons at 30-33C (1 mM Ca). With 0.5 mM intracellular EGTA, 1-second trains of either spontaneous action potential waveforms or brief depolarizing steps at 50 Hz evoked Ca tail currents that were stable, remaining within 5% of the first tail current throughout the train. Higher frequency trains (100 and 200 Hz) elicited a maximal inactivation of &lt;10%. To test whether this stability of Ca currents resulted from a lack of modulation or from an equilibrium between facilitation and inactivation, we manipulated the permeant ion (Ca vs. Ba) and Ca buffering (0.5 vs. 10 mM EGTA). With low buffering, Ba accelerated the initial inactivation evoked by 1-second trains, but reduced its extent at 200 Hz, consistent with an early calcium-dependent facilitation (CDF) and late calcium-dependent inactivation (CDI) at high frequencies. Increasing the Ca buffer favored CDF. These data suggest that stable Ca current amplitudes result from a balance of CDF, CDI, and voltage-dependent inactivation. This modest net Ca-dependent modulation may contribute to the ability of Purkinje neurons to sustain long periods of regular firing and synaptic transmission.
The neuronal protein Kelch-like 1 (KLHL1) is a novel actin-binding protein that modulates neuronal structure and function. KLHL1 knockout mice exhibit dendritic atrophy in cerebellar Purkinje neurons and motor dysfunction. Interestingly, KLHL1 upregulates high and low voltage-gated calcium currents (Ca(V)2.1 and Ca(V)3.2) and interacts with their respective principal subunits, (1A) and (1H). We reported the mechanism of enhanced Ca(V)3.2 ((1H)) current density (and calcium influx) by KLHL1 is due to an increase in channel number (N) that requires the binding of actin. In this report we further elucidate the role of the actin cytoskeleton in this process using pharmacological tools to disrupt or stabilize actin filaments and to prevent protein trafficking and vesicle recycling. Disruption of the cytoskeleton did not affect the basal activity of (1H), but did eliminate its modulation by KLHL1. In contrast, actin-F stabilization on its own increased basal (1H) activity similar to KLHL1 but without synergy in its presence, suggesting KLHL1 requires actin-polymerization to increase (1H) currents. Noise analysis revealed that actin polymerization induced an increase in N and P(o), in contrast to increased N in the presence of KLHL1. Interestingly, pharmacological or genetic disruption of endosomal recycling eliminated the increase in channel number by KLHL1 demonstrating this effect occurs via enhanced (1H) re-insertion through the recycling endosome. Our findings afford insight on a novel mechanism of T-type channel modulation that could have overall functional implications for T-type channel function in the brain.


We describe a 33-year-old man with cyclosporine encephalopathy who showed continuous jerking in the left upper limb due to epilepsia partialis continua. Jerk-locked back averaging (JLA) of magnetoencephalogram disclosed a spike preceding the jerk localized at the hand motor area, whereas JLA of electroencephalogram revealed no premyoclonus spikes. The paired-pulse motor cortical transcranial magnetic stimulation revealed motor cortical hyperexcitability, while the paired-pulse somatosensory evoked potential showed no sensory cortical hyperexcitability. The brain MRI showed a high intensity lesion localized at the hand sensory area. These results suggest that the jerks were produced by discharges at the motor cortex probably disinhibited by the sensory cortical lesion.


Computerized detection of epileptiform transients (ETs), also called spikes and sharp waves, in the electroencephalogram (EEG) has been a research goal for the last 40years. A reliable method for detecting ETs could improve efficiency in reviewing long EEG recordings and assist physicians in interpreting routine EEGs. Computer algorithms developed so far for detecting ETs are not as reliable as human expert interpreters, mostly due to the large number of false positive detections. Typical methods for ET detection include measuring waveform morphology, detecting signal non-stationarity, and power spectrum analysis. Some progress has been made by using more advanced algorithmic approaches including wavelet analysis, artificial neural networks, and dipole analysis. Comparing the performance of different algorithms is difficult since each study uses its own EEG test dataset. In order to overcome this problem, European researchers in the field of computerized electrocardiogram interpretation organized a large multi-center research workgroup to create a standardized dataset of ECG recordings which were interpreted by a large group of cardiologists. EEG researchers need to follow this as a model and seek funding for the creation of a standardized EEG research dataset to develop ET detection algorithms and certify commercial software.


The occurrence of traumatic brain injury (TBI) and psychological health issues in the current theater of military operations has become a major factor in planning for the long-term healthcare of our wounded warriors. Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) can co-exist with brain injury in military members who have been exposed to blasts. Specific areas of the brain may be more susceptible to damage from blasts. In particular, damage to the prefrontal cortex can lead to disinhibition of cerebral structures that control fear and anxiety. Reactive systemic inflammatory processes related to TBI may also impair psychological health. Impaired psychological health may lead to increased psychological distress that impedes brain repair due to the release of stress-related hormones. Since the external environment has been shown to exert a significant influence on the internal environment of the organism, enriching the external environment may well reduce anxiety and facilitate the neuroplasticity of brain cells, thus promoting recovery of function after TBI.
Increased awareness of traumatic brain injury (TBI) in the military, a persistent call for evidence-based treatment, and recent government funding have revealed new research opportunities in neuroscience. This paper describes a relatively new frontier for research: that of the facilitation or enhancement of neuroplasticity and brain repair in TBI using novel treatment protocols. Such protocols, algorithmically introduced, may be tailored to the individual through the matching of neuromarkers with specific interventions. Examples of neuromarkers and interventions employed for the purpose of neuromodulation are reported. Problems with lack of controlled studies and inferring causation in correlational research are noted. Healthy skepticism and open-minded creativity are needed so that we can think in unorthodox ways, create partnerships, harness available knowledge and expertise, and ultimately develop effective treatments.
The diagnosis and treatment of mild traumatic brain injury (MTBI)have historically been hampered by an incomplete base of scientific evidence to guide clinicians. One question has been most elusive to clinicians and researchers alike: What is the true natural history of MTBI? Fortunately, the science of MTBI has advanced more in the last decade than in the previous 50 years, and now reaches a maturity point at which the science can drive an evidence-based approach to clinical management. In particular, technological advances in functional neuroimaging have created a powerful bridge between the clinical and basic science of MTBI in humans. Collectively, findings from clinical, basic science, and functional neuroimaging studies now establish a foundation on which to build integrative theories and testable hypotheses around a comprehensive model of MTBI recovery. We review the current scientific literature on postconcussion symptom recovery, neuropsychological outcome, and neurophysiological healing after MTBI. Special emphasis is placed on how the new evidence base can help guide clinicians in the evaluation and management of military-related MTBI.

Effective treatment of neurodegenerative disease is one of the major challenges facing biomedical research. These disorders, which include Alzheimer's, Huntington's and Parkinson's diseases - as well as the rarer prion diseases - constitute an ever-increasing burden in the developed world, socially, medically and economically. The key barrier to effective therapy is that they present clinically when neuronal loss is advanced, and irreversible. Current treatments are almost all directed at modifying symptoms; few address underlying pathogenic mechanisms and are inevitably delivered too late to rescue dying neurons. In the field of prion diseases, however, insights into the molecular basis and the temporal evolution of prion neurotoxicity are increasing. Recent work in mice leads to new hope for the treatment of these disorders, and potentially for rescuing neurodegeneration more broadly. Using lentivirally mediated RNA interference (RNAi) against native prion protein (PrP), White et al report the first intervention resulting in neuronal rescue, prevention of symptoms and increased survival in mice with established prion disease. Central to the effectiveness of this strategy are both the target and the timing of the intervention: the treatment prevents the formation of the neurotoxic prion agent at a point when diseased neurons can still be saved from death. This review introduces the basic concepts of prion pathogenesis, emerging insights into mechanisms of prion neurotoxicity and the rationale for targeting endogenous prion protein (PrP) in prion therapeutics. It describes the discovery of a window of reversibility of early neuronal damage in prion disease and how together these advances led to the subsequent development of the strategy using RNAi based therapy for these disorders. It discusses the use and relevance of this approach more broadly in neurodegeneration.
Individuals with major depressive disorder (MDD) have high rates of disability, morbidity, and mortality, and are responsible for as many as one-fourth of all healthcare visits. Within primary care settings, 5% to 10% of adults have MDD, but only one-third of those are diagnosed. Thus, despite the devastating decrease in the quality-of-life and productivity of patients, depression is often under-diagnosed and therefore inadequately treated. Most patients with depression who are adherent with their treatment plan still experience residual symptoms, and require lon-term treatment. Adequately managing residual symptoms will hopefully lead to increased remission in these patients. This supplement focuses on the different types of residual symptoms that patients experience and suggests various treatment options.
Morality may be innate to the human brain. This review examines the neurobiological evidence from research involving functional magnetic resonance imaging of normal subjects, developmental sociopathy, acquired sociopathy from brain lesions, and frontotemporal dementia. These studies indicate a &quot;neuromoral&quot; network for responding to moral dilemmas centered in the ventromedial prefrontal cortex and its connections, particularly on the right. The neurobiological evidence indicates the existence of automatic &quot;prosocial&quot; mechanisms for identification with others that are part of the moral brain. Patients with disorders involving this moral network have attenuated emotional reactions to the possibility of harming others and may perform sociopathic acts. The existence of this neuromoral system has major clinical implications for the management of patients with dysmoral behavior from brain disorders and for forensic neuropsychiatry.
To figure out whether the main empirical question &quot;Is our brain hardwired to believe in and produce God, or is our brain hardwired to perceive and experience God?&quot; is answered, this paper presents systematic critical review of the positions, arguments and controversies of each side of the neuroscientific-theological debate and puts forward an integral view where the human is seen as a psycho-somatic entity consisting of the multiple levels and dimensions of human existence (physical, biological, psychological, and spiritual reality), allowing consciousness/mind/spirit and brain/body/matter to be seen as different sides of the same phenomenon, neither reducible to each other. The emergence of a form of causation distinctive from physics where mental/conscious agency (a) is neither identical with nor reducible to brain processes and (b) does exert &quot;downward&quot; causal influence on brain plasticity and the various levels of brain functioning is discussed. This manuscript also discusses the role of cognitive processes in religious experience and outlines what can neuroscience offer for study of religious experience and what is the significance of this study for neuroscience, clinicians, theology and philosophy. A methodological shift from &quot;explanation&quot; to &quot;description&quot; of religious experience is suggested. This paper contributes to the ongoing discussion between theologians, cognitive psychologists and neuroscientists.
The present study examined the physiological mechanisms of the responses of brain tissue oxygen partial pressure (P(t)O(2)), brain temperature (T(brain)), global oxygen consumption (V(O2)), and respiratory frequency (f(R)) to hypoxia in non-sedated and non-anesthetized arctic ground squirrels (Spermophilus parryii, AGS) and rats. We found that (1) in contrast to oxygen partial pressure in blood (P(a)O(2)), the baseline value of P(t)O(2) in summer euthermic AGS is significantly higher than in rats; (2) both P(t)O(2) and P(a)O(2) are dramatically reduced by inspired 8% O(2) in AGS and rats, but AGS have a greater capacity in P(t)O(2) to cope with environmental hypoxia; (3) metabolic rate before, during, and after hypoxic exposure is consistently lower in AGS than in rats; (4) the respiratory responding patterns to hypoxia in the two species differ in that f(R) decreases in AGS but increases in rats. These results suggest that (1) AGS have special mechanisms to maintain higher P(t)O(2) and lower P(a)O(2,) and these levels in AGS represent a typical pattern of adaptation of heterothermic species to and a brain protection from hypoxia; (2) AGS brain responds to hypoxia through greater decreases in P(t)O(2) and decreased f(R) and ventilation. In contrast, rat brain responds to hypoxia by less reduction in P(t)O(2) and increased f(R) and ventilation.

We have developed a magnetic resonance molecular imaging method using a novel iron-oxide contrast agent targeted towards P-selectin - MNP-PBP (magnetic nanoparticle-P-selectin binding peptide) - to image endothelial activation following cerebral ischemia/reperfusion. MNP-PBP consists of approximately 1000 PBP ligands (primary sequence: GSIQPRPQIHNDGDFEEIPEEYLQ GGSSLVSVLDLEPLDAAWL) conjugated to a 50 nm diameter aminated dextran iron oxide particle. In vitro P- and E-selectin binding was assessed by competition ELISA. Transient focal cerebral ischemia was induced in male C57/BL 6 mice followed by contrast injection (MNP-PBP; MNP-NH2; Feridex; MNP-PBP-FITC) at 24 h after reperfusion and T(2) magnetic resonance imaging at 9.4 T was performed. Infarction and microvasculature accumulation of contrast agent was assessed in coronal brain sections. MNP-PBP attenuated antibody binding to P-selectin by 34.8 +/- 1.7%. P-selectin was preferentially increased in the infarct hemisphere and MNP-PBP-FITC accumulation in the infarct hemisphere microvasculature was observed. Compared with the nontargeted iron oxide agents MNP-NH2 and Feridex, MNP-PBP showed a significantly greater T(2) effect within the infarction. MR imaging of P-selectin expression with a targeted iron oxide nanoparticle contrast agent may reveal early endothelial activation in stroke and other neuroinflammatory states.
In the phenomenon of spatial sequence synesthesia (SSS), subjects can articulate explicit spatial locations for sequences such as numbers, letters, weekdays, months, years, and other overlearned series. Similarly, abstract sequences can take on implicit spatial representations in non-synesthetes, as evidenced by the spatial numerical association of response codes (SNARC) effect. An open question is whether the two findings represent different degrees of the same condition, or different conditions. To address this, we developed computer programs to quantify three-dimensional (3D) month-form coordinates in 571 self-reported spatial sequence synesthetes; this approach opens the door for the first time to quantified large-scale analysis. First, despite the common assumption that month-forms tend to be elliptical, we find this to be true in only a minority of cases. Second, we find that 27% of month forms are in the shape of lines, consistent with the assumed shape of implicit spatial forms in the SNARC effect. Next, we find that the majority of month forms are biased in a left-to-right direction, also consistent with the directional bias in the SNARC effect (in Western speakers). Collectively, these findings support the possibility that SSS is directly related to the sequence representations in non-synesthetes. While the search for neural correlates has concentrated on areas in the parietal lobe involved in numeric manipulation and coordinate systems, we propose that the basis of this synesthesia may be the close proximity of temporal lobe regions implicated in sequence coding and visual object representation.

When we actively explore the visual environment, our gaze preferentially selects regions characterized by high contrast and high density of edges, suggesting that the guidance of eye movements during visual exploration is driven to a significant degree by perceptual characteristics of a scene. Converging findings suggest that the selection of the visual target for the upcoming saccade critically depends on a covert shift of spatial attention. However, it is unclear whether attention selects the location of the next fixation uniquely on the basis of global scene structure or additionally on local perceptual information. To investigate the role of spatial attention in scene processing, we examined eye fixation patterns of patients with spatial neglect during unconstrained exploration of natural images and compared these to healthy and brain-injured control participants. We computed luminance, colour, contrast, and edge information contained in image patches surrounding each fixation and evaluated whether they differed from randomly selected image patches. At the global level, neglect patients showed the characteristic ipsilesional shift of the distribution of their fixations. At the local level, patients with neglect and control participants fixated image regions in ipsilesional space that were closely similar with respect to their local feature content. In contrast, when directing their gaze to contralesional (impaired) space neglect patients fixated regions of significantly higher local luminance and lower edge content than controls. These results suggest that intact spatial attention is necessary for the active sampling of local feature content during scene perception.

Estrogens are hormones that modulate a diverse array of effects during development and adulthood. The effects of estrogen are mediated by two estrogen receptor (ER) isotypes, ERalpha and ERbeta, which classically function as transcription factors to modulate specific target gene expression and in addition regulate a growing list of intracellular signaling cascades. These receptors share protein sequence homology and protein-motif organization but have distinct differences in their tissue distribution and binding affinities for their ligands. In the nervous system estrogen has been implicated to play a role in a number of processes which regulate synaptic plasticity including synaptogenesis and neurogenesis. The role for estrogen in a range of neurological and neuropsychiatric diseases is also becoming very apparent. Estrogen is able to regulate processes and behaviours relevant for both Alzheimer's disease and schizophrenia and to modulate neuroendocrine and inflammatory processes important in neuroinflammation, anxiety and depressive disorders as well as chronic pain. We will consider the rationale for estrogen-based therapies for diseases of the nervous system. In particular we will highlight the molecular mechanisms and signal transduction pathways most likely underlying the effects of estrogen in the CNS.
Prion diseases are a group of fatal neurologic disorders that affect humans and animals and for which there is no available therapy. The basic pathogenic mechanism is linked to posttranslational changes of the host cellular prion protein (PrP(c)) into a pathologic conformer (PrP(TSE)) that has a strong tendency to aggregate and form amyloid fibrils. In humans, the most common form of the disease is sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD), which equally affects females and males of all ages and all ethnic groups. Sporadic CJD has an overall mortality rate of approximately one to two cases per million people per year, with peak incidence in individuals 60 to 70 years old. Approximately 10% to 20% of CJD cases appear within families and are linked to point or insert mutations in the prion protein gene (PRNP). Both sporadic and genetic prion disorders are transmissible to a wide range of laboratory animals by the injection of crude brain homogenates.







Amyloid precursor protein (APP) has been a focus of intense investigation because of its role in Alzheimer's disease (AD), however, its biological function remains uncertain. Loss of APP and APP-like proteins results in postnatal lethality in mice, suggesting a role during embryogenesis. Here we show that in a zebrafish model system, knock down of APP results in the generation of fish with dramatically reduced body length and a short, curly tail. In situ examination of gene expression suggests that the APP morphant embryos have defective convergent-extension movements. We also show that wild-type human APP rescues the morphant phenotype, but the Swedish mutant APP, which causes familial AD (fAD), does not rescue the developmental defects. Collectively, this work demonstrates that the zebrafish model is a powerful system to define the role of APP during embryonic development and to evaluate the functional activity of fAD mutant APP.
Progenitor cells in the developing retina initially divide so that each division produces two cells that divide again. Subsequently, progenitor cells change their mode of division so that one or both cells produced by a division can withdraw from the mitotic cycle and differentiate. We asked how these two progenitor cell stages differ molecularly and what controls the switch in the mode of division. We show that early preneurogenic progenitor cells express the transcription factor, Sox2, and the Notch ligand, Delta1. More mature neurogenic progenitor cells express Sox2 and the bHLH transcription factor, E2A, and not Delta1. Notch signaling maintains progenitor cells in the preneurogenic state. Sonic hedgehog expressed by newly differentiating cells initiates maturation of progenitor cells from preneurogenic to neurogenic at the neurogenic front, possibly by down-regulating Delta1 expression. Our results show that the preneurogenic-to-neurogenic transition is a highly organized unidirectional step made in unison by neighboring cells.
Fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR) signaling is pivotal in the regulation of neurogenesis, neuronal differentiation and survival, and synaptic plasticity both during development and in adulthood. In order to develop low molecular weight agonists of FGFR, seven peptides, termed hexafins, corresponding to the beta6-beta7 loop region of the FGF 1, 2, 3, 8, 9, 10, and 17, were synthesized. This region shares a homologous amino acid sequence with the FG-loop region of the second fibronectin Type III module of the neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) that binds to the FGFR. Hexafins were shown by surface plasmon resonance to bind to FGFR1-IIIc-Ig2-3 and FGFR2-IIIb-Ig2-3. The heparin analog sucrose octasulfate inhibited hexafin binding to FGFR1-IIIc-Ig2-3 indicating overlapping binding sites. Hexafin-binding to FGFR1-IIIc resulted in receptor phosphorylation, but inhibited FGF1-induced FGFR1 phosphorylation, indicating that hexafins act as partial agonists. Hexafin2, 3, 8, 10, and 17 (but not 1 or 9) induced neurite outgrowth from cerebellar granule neurons (CGNs), an effect that was abolished by two inhibitors of FGFR, SU5402 and inositol hexaphosphate (IP6) and a diacylglycerol lipase inhibitor, RHC-80267. The neuritogenic effects of selected hexafins could also be inhibited by FGF1 which by itself did not induce neurite outgrowth. Moreover, hexafin1, 3, 9, 10, and 17 (but not 2 or 8) promoted survival of CGNs induced to undergo apoptosis. Thus, selected hexafins induced neuronal differentiation and survival, making them promising pharmacological tools for the study of functional FGFR regulation in development of the nervous system.
Although young infants have repeatedly demonstrated successful numerosity discrimination across large sets when the number of items in the sets changes twofold (E. M. Brannon, S. Abbott, &amp; D. J. Lutz, 2004; J. N. Wood &amp; E. S. Spelke, 2005; F. Xu &amp; E. S. Spelke, 2000), they consistently fail to discriminate a twofold change in number when one set is large and the other is small (&lt;4 items; F. Feigenson, S. Carey, &amp; M. Hauser, 2002; F. Xu, 2003). It has been theorized that this failure reflects an incompatibility in representational systems for small and large sets. The authors investigated the ability of 7-month-old infants to compare small and large sets over a variety of conditions. Results reveal that infants can successfully discriminate small from large sets when given a fourfold change, but not a twofold change, in number. The implications of these results are discussed in light of current theories of number representation.

Heterozygous mutations of KCNA1, the gene encoding potassium channel Kv1.1 subunits, cause episodic ataxia type 1 (EA1), which is characterized by paroxysmal cerebellar incoordination and interictal myokymia. Some mutations are also associated with epilepsy. Although Kv1.1-containing potassium channels play important roles in neuronal excitability and neurotransmitter release, it is not known how mutations associated with different clinical features affect the input-output relationships of individual neurons. We transduced rat hippocampal neurons, which were cultured on glial micro-islands, with lentiviruses expressing wild-type or mutant human KCNA1, and injected either depolarizing currents to evoke action potentials or depolarizing voltage commands to evoke autaptic currents. alpha-Dendrotoxin and tetraethylammonium allowed a pharmacological dissection of potassium currents underlying excitability and neurotransmission. Overexpression of wild-type Kv1.1 decreased both neuronal excitability and neurotransmitter release. By contrast, the C-terminus-truncated R417stop mutant, which is associated with severe drug-resistant EA1, had the opposite effect: increased excitability and release probability. Another mutant, T226R, which is associated with EA1 that is complicated by contractures and epilepsy, had no detectable effect on neuronal excitability; however, in common with R417stop, it markedly enhanced neurotransmitter release. The results provide direct evidence that EA1 mutations increase neurotransmitter release, and provide an insight into mechanisms underlying the phenotypic differences that are associated with different mutations.
As part of a larger follow-up study, 75 students were diagnosed with dyslexia at 10 years of age. At the end of secondary school, grades for the whole cohort of 16-year olds were examined. At age 23 the whole study group responded to a questionnaire and the subgroup with dyslexia who responded to this questionnaire were invited to come for testing and interviews. The persistence of dyslexia into young adulthood and educational levels were examined. The results showed that almost all students still suffered dyslexia and showed lower decoding ability. However, they only showed slightly lower educational attainment levels compared with a representative sample of half the cohort (n=530) they were part of.
Phosphorylation of respiratory chain components has emerged as a mode of regulation of mitochondrial energy metabolism, but its mechanisms are still largely unexplored. A recently discovered intramitochondrial signalling pathway links CO(2) generated by the Krebs cycle with the respiratory chain, through the action of a mitochondrial soluble adenylyl cyclase (mt-sAC). Cytochrome oxidase (COX), whose deficiency causes a number of fatal metabolic disorders, is a key mitochondrial enzyme activated by mt-sAC. We have now discovered that the mt-sAC pathway modulates mitochondrial biogenesis in a reactive oxygen species dependent manner, in cultured cells and in animals with COX deficiency. We show that upregulation of mt-sAC normalizes reactive oxygen species production and mitochondrial biogenesis, thereby restoring mitochondrial function. This is the first example of manipulation of a mitochondrial signalling pathway to achieve a direct positive modulation of COX, with clear implications for the development of novel approaches to treat mitochondrial diseases.
Alternative splicing events from tandem donor sites result in mRNA variants coding for additional amino acids in the DNA binding domain of both the glucocorticoid (GR) and mineralocorticoid (MR) receptors. We now show that expression of both splice variants is extensively conserved in mammalian species, providing strong evidence for their functional significance. An exception to the conservation of the MR tandem splice site (an A at position +5 of the MR+12 donor site in the mouse) was predicted to decrease U1 small nuclear RNA binding. In accord with this prediction, we were unable to detect the MR+12 variant in this species. The one exception to the conservation of the GR tandem splice site, an A at position +3 of the platypus GRgamma donor site that was predicted to enhance binding of U1 snRNA, was unexpectedly associated with decreased expression of the variant from the endogenous gene as well as a minigene. An intronic pyrimidine motif present in both GR and MR genes was found to be critical for usage of the downstream donor site, and overexpression of TIA1/TIAL1 RNA binding proteins, which are known to bind such motifs, led to a marked increase in the proportion of GRgamma and MR+12. These results provide striking evidence for conservation of a complex splicing mechanism that involves processes other than stochastic spliceosome binding and identify a mechanism that would allow regulation of variant expression.
Automobile exhaust constituents contribute significantly to air pollution in urban areas and compressed natural gas (CNG) is considered one of the most promising fuel alternatives for the future. CNG-powered four-stroke engine auto-rickshaws are ubiquitous in South Asian cities as taxi and for commercial transportation. Automotive exhaust contains several toxins, which are overwhelmingly toxic to the processes of wound healing. By utilizing the in vivo mouse model of wound healing, this report analyzes the effects of CNG-powered four-stroke auto-rickshaws smoke solution (4SARSS) on different events of wound healing; dermal matrix regeneration, re-epithelialization and neovascularization. A total of 72 adult mice, divided in eight groups were exposed to 4SARSS for 12 days. A highly significant reduction (P&lt;0.001) in wound closure was observed among all 4SARSS treated groups, at each time point of the experiment. An immature development in both the neoepidermis and the neodermis was observed among all 4SARSS treated wounds with defective re-epithelialization, dermal matrix regeneration and maturation of collagen bundles. Abbott curve, angular spectrum, 3D surface topographies, and histological investigations of wounds explicated highly significant activation (P&lt;0.001) of delayed-neovascularization among 4SARSS treated wounds. All these annotations advocate excessive toxicity of emission from CNG-powered auto-rickshaws to the process of wound healing and people occupationally exposed to this toxic emissions may suffer varying degree of delayed wound healing.

Using an adaptation of Grober and Buschke's procedure, we assessed verbal and visuospatial learning abilities in 16 children after left or right anteromesial temporal resection and 16 healthy controls to evaluate material-specific memory deficits. All children had relatively well-preserved verbal and spatial learning capacities after unilateral temporal resection. Children who had left temporal resection showed impaired verbal memory performance despite semantic control by cued recall. No memory deficits with visual material were detected in children who underwent right anteromesial temporal resection. Grober and Buschke's procedure appears relevant for the detection of verbal memory disorders in children with left-sided temporal resection.
Living Well with Epilepsy II called for further attention to stigma and its impact on people with epilepsy. In response, the South Carolina Health Outcomes Project on Epilepsy (SC HOPE) is examining the relationship between socioeconomic status, epilepsy severity, health care utilization, and quality of life in persons diagnosed with epilepsy. The current analysis quantifies perceived stigma reported by adults with epilepsy in relation to demographic, seizure-related, health, and psychosocial factors. It was found that reported levels of stigma were associated with interactions of seizure worry and employment status, self-efficacy and social support, and quality care and age at seizure onset. This information may be used to target and develop evidence-based interventions for adults with epilepsy at high risk for perceived stigma, as well as to inform epilepsy research in self-management.
Seizures are linked to many neuroplastic changes within hippocampal circuits, including alterations in neurogenesis and dendritic growth in the dentate gyrus. How do brief seizures cause the long-term plastic changes in the hippocampus that are associated with recurrent epilepsy? Recent experiments by Ma and colleagues provide insights. They demonstrate an epigenetic mechanism for long-lasting neuroplastic changes that is both activity-dependent and brain region-specific. Focusing on Gadd45b, a DNA excision repair gene, they show it is up-regulated after electroconvulsive seizures or glutamate dependent activation of NMDA receptors. Gadd45b demethylates DNA regulatory elements in promoters of genes encoding fibroblast growth factor 1 and brain-derived neurotrophic factor, increasing the expression of these genes within granule neurons of the dentate gyrus. These changes in growth factor expression promote neurogenesis in the subgranular zone and dendritic growth in the granule cell layer of the dentate gyrus. Further regional and temporal differences in the proliferation of astrocytes and microglia after seizures were demonstrated by two additional studies. Together this work highlights how activity-dependent epigenetic modifications to DNA can alter gene expression with remarkable regional and cell type specificity.
Abnormal connectivity might be involved in the pathophysiology of Tuberous Sclerosis Complex (TSC). We used twin-coil Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation protocol to investigate connectivity between posterior parietal cortex (PPC) and motor cortex (M1) in TSC patients. In comparison with healthy subjects and TSC patients treated with antiepileptic drugs, non-medicated TSC patients exhibited abnormal excitability of PPC-M1 connection. Such altered connectivity might play a role in TSC epileptic phenotype.
In this article we suggest a working definition for the concept of &quot;neuropsychotherapy&quot; encompassing three areas: the identification of mediators and targets of psychotherapeutic effects, the determination of new therapeutic routes using neurotechnology, and the design of psychotherapeutic interventions based on neuroscientific knowledge. We review neuroimaging studies of the psychotherapy of depression and discuss some of the methodological limitations inherent in functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI) and common fallacies perpetrated in interpreting fMRI studies. Finally, we discuss some neuroethical issues related to this new and active field of research. In sum, we argue that neuroscience harbors great potential and add-on value for improving psychotherapeutic practice and research if applied properly.
Pervasive refusal syndrome (PRS) is a rare child psychiatric disorder characterized by pervasive refusal, active/angry resistance to help and social withdrawal leading to an endangered state. Little has been written about PRS. A literature search yielded only 15 relevant articles, all published between 1991 and 2006. This article presents a critical review of the published literature, illustrated by a case report of an 11-year-old girl. PRS most often affects girls (75%). The mean age of the known population is 10.5 years. A premorbid high-achieving, perfectionist, conscientious personality seems to play an important role in the aetiology of PRS, as can a psychiatric history of parents or child and environmental stressors. PRS shows a symptom overlap with many other psychiatric disorders. However, none of the current DSM diagnoses can account for the full range of symptoms seen in PRS, and the active/angry resistance can be considered as the main distinguishing feature. Treatment should be multidisciplinary and characterized by patience, gentle encouragement and tender loving care. Hospitalization, ideally in a child and adolescent psychiatric unit, is almost always required. Although the recovery process is painfully slow (average duration of therapy 12.8 months), most children recover fully (complete recovery in 67% of known cases). In our opinion, it is important to increase knowledge of PRS, not only because of its disabling, potential life-threatening character, but also because there is hope for recovery through suitable treatment. We therefore propose an incorporation of PRS into the DSM and ICD classifications. However, an adaptation of the current diagnostic criteria is needed. We also consider PRS closely related to regression, which is why we introduce a new concept: &quot;the refusal-withdrawal-regression spectrum&quot;.
To examine the inter-rater reliability and stability of autism spectrum disorder (ASD) diagnoses made at a very early age in children identified through a screening procedure around 14 months of age. In a prospective design, preschoolers were recruited from a screening study for ASD. The inter-rater reliability of the diagnosis of ASD was measured through an independent assessment of a randomly selected subsample of 38 patients by two other psychiatrists. The diagnoses at 23 months and 42 months of 131 patients, based on the clinical assessment and the diagnostic classifications of standardised instruments, were compared to evaluate stability of the diagnosis of ASD. Inter-rater reliability on a diagnosis of ASD versus non-ASD at 23 months was 87% with a weighted kappa of 0.74 (SE 0.11). The stability of the different diagnoses in the autism spectrum was 63% for autistic disorder, 54% for pervasive developmental disorder, not otherwise specified (PDD-NOS), and 91% for the whole category of ASD. Most diagnostic changes at 42 months were within the autism spectrum from autistic disorder to PDD-NOS and were mainly due to diminished symptom severity. Children who moved outside the ASD category at 42 months made significantly larger gains in cognitive and language skills than children with a stable ASD diagnosis. In conclusion, the inter-rater reliability and stability of the diagnoses of ASD established at 23 months in this population-based sample of very young children are good.

The cerebellum is involved in the generation of essential tremor (ET) and cerebellar timing function is altered in patients with ET showing an increased variability of rhythmic hand movements. Using a sensor-engineered glove, we evaluated motor behaviour during repetitive finger tapping movements in 15 patients with ET and in 11 age- and gender-matched normal subjects. In addition, we investigated whether, in patients with ET, an inhibitory repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (1 Hz-rTMS) over lateral cerebellum was able to change timing properties and motor behaviour. Patients with ET showed a longer touch duration (TD) and a lower inter tapping interval (ITI) than normal subjects. The temporal variability of the movement (coefficient of variation of ITI) was increased in patients with ET. Neither clinical rating scale or tremor measurements correlated with any parameter of motor performance in the ET group. 1 Hz-rTMS over ipsilateral lateral cerebellum transiently affected the performance of patients with ET, by reducing TD values and normalizing ITI values. After 1 Hz-rTMS, the coefficient of variation of ITI was restored to values similar to those of normal subjects. We postulate that the strategy to increase TD, probably adopted to allow a better perception of movement, can affect ITI and its variability. The results support the idea that the cerebellum plays a central role in the selection of motor strategy of rhythmic finger movements, particularly in terms of temporal organization of movement.
Orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) is critical for reversal learning. Reversal deficits are typically demonstrated in complex settings that combine Pavlovian and instrumental learning. Yet recent work has implicated the OFC specifically in behaviors guided by cues and the features of the specific outcomes they predict. To test whether the OFC is important for reversing such Pavlovian associations in the absence of confounding instrumental requirements, we trained rats on a simple Pavlovian task in which two auditory cues were presented, one paired with a food pellet reward and the other presented without reward. After learning, we reversed the cue-outcome associations. For half the rats, OFC was inactivated prior to each reversal session. Inactivation of OFC impaired the ability of the rats to reverse conditioned responding. This deficit reflected the inability of inactivated rats to develop normal responding for the previously unrewarded cue; inactivation of OFC had no impact on the ability of the rats to inhibit responding to the previously rewarded cue. These data show that OFC is critical to reversal of Pavlovian responding, and that the role of OFC in this behavior cannot be explained as a simple deficit in response inhibition. Furthermore, the contrast between the normal inhibition of responding, reported here, and impaired inhibition of responding during Pavlovian over-expectation, reported previously, suggests the novel hypothesis that OFC may be particularly critical for learning (or behavior) when it requires the subject to generate predictions about outcomes by bringing together or integrating disparate pieces of associative information.
In spines on basal dendrites of layer 2/3 pyramidal neurons in somatosensory barrel cortex, calcium transients evoked by back-propagating action potentials (bAPs) were investigated (i) along the length of the basal dendrite, (ii) with postnatal development and (iii) with sensory deprivation during postnatal development. Layer 2/3 pyramidal neurons were investigated at three different ages. At all ages [postnatal day (P)8, P14, P21] the bAP-evoked calcium transient amplitude increased with distance from the soma with a peak at around 50 microm, followed by a gradual decline in amplitude. The effect of sensory deprivation on the bAP-evoked calcium was investigated using two different protocols. When all whiskers on one side of the rat snout were trimmed daily from P8 to P20-24 there was no difference in the bAP-evoked calcium transient between cells in the contralateral hemisphere, lacking sensory input from the whisker, and cells in the ipsilateral barrel cortex, with intact whisker activation. When, however, only the D-row whiskers on one side were trimmed the distribution of bAP-evoked calcium transients in spines was shifted towards larger amplitudes in cells located in the deprived D-column. In conclusion, (i) the bAP-evoked calcium transient gradient along the dendrite length is established at P8, (ii) the calcium transient increases in amplitude with age and (iii) this increase is enhanced in layer 2/3 pyramidal neurons located in a sensory-deprived barrel column that is bordered by non-deprived barrel columns.
Current models of recognition memory performance postulate that there are two fundamentally distinct retrieval processes, i.e. recollection and familiarity. This view has been challenged and little is known from human research about the functional connectivity of the brain areas involved in these processes. In our study we used a Remember-Know procedure to assess the functional connectivity of brain regions under recognition memory in 30 healthy adults. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging, we analysed the blood oxygen level-dependent responses during correct Remember, correct Know, correct Rejection and missed responses of the subjects during recognition of non-emotional nouns. One activation cluster was found in the left precuneus associated with both recollection and familiarity answers. To acquire information about the way in which activity in one brain region modulates activity in another brain region in response to the active task, we performed a psychophysiological interaction analysis with the left precuneus as a seed region. This analysis revealed functionally distinct networks of brain areas underlying recollection and familiarity. Furthermore, we discuss the differential involvement of the hippocampus in a recollection network as compared with a familiarity network. In summary, our results further strengthen the assumptions of a dual-process view of recognition memory [e.g. H. Eichenbaum et al. (2007) Annual Review of Neuroscience, 30, 123-152; A.P. Yonelinas (2001) Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society London B Biological Sciences, 356, 1363-1374] and add empirical findings about the functional interconnectivity of brain regions supporting either recollection or familiarity.
Abstract Neurons with enhanced intrinsic growth capabilities can elongate their axons into non-permissive territories, but the mechanisms that enable the outgrowing processes to overcome environmental inhibition are largely unknown. To address this issue, we examined adult mouse Purkinje cells that overexpress the axonal growth-associated protein GAP-43. After injury, these neurons exhibit sprouting along the intracortical neuritic course and at the severed stump in the white matter. To determine whether GAP-43-overexpressing Purkinje cells are responsive to extrinsic inhibitory cues, we investigated the content and subcellular localization of major receptors for myelin-associated inhibitory proteins, PlexinB1 and the Nogo receptor (NgR) with the related co-receptors LINGO-1 and p75. Expression of these molecules, estimated by measuring perikaryal immunostaining intensity and Western blot, was not different in wild-type or transgenic mice, and it was not overtly modified after axotomy. Following injury, however, the content of PlexinB1 was significantly reduced in GAP-43-overexpressing neurites. Furthermore, in the same axons the distribution of both PlexinB1 and NgR was altered, being inverse to that of GAP-43. Labelling for the two receptors was conspicuously reduced on the axonal surface and it was almost undetectable in the outgrowing sprouts, which showed strong GAP-43 immunoreactivity. These observations indicate that although GAP-43 overexpression does not modify the expression of receptors for myelin-associated inhibitory factors, it interferes with their subcellular localization and exposure on the neuritic membrane. Therefore, GAP-43 promotes axon growth by multiple synergistic mechanisms that potentiate the intrinsic motility of the elongating processes, while reducing their sensitivity to environmental inhibition.
Circadian clocks enable the organisms to anticipate predictable cycling events in the environment. The mechanisms of the main circadian clock, localized in the suprachiasmatic nuclei of the hypothalamus, involve intracellular autoregulatory transcriptional loops of specific genes, called clock genes. In the suprachiasmatic clock, circadian oscillations of clock genes are primarily reset by light, thus allowing the organisms to be in phase with the light-dark cycle. Another circadian timing system is dedicated to preparing the organisms for the ongoing meal or food availability: the so-called food-entrainable system, characterized by food-anticipatory processes depending on a circadian clock whose location in the brain is not yet identified with certainty. Here we review the current knowledge on food anticipation in mice lacking clock genes or feeding-related genes. The food-entrainable clockwork in the brain is currently thought to be made of transcriptional loops partly divergent from those described in the light-entrainable suprachiasmatic nuclei. Possible confounding effects associated with behavioral screening of meal anticipation in mutant mice are also discussed.
Evidence suggests that the genes involved in brain lipid homeostasis are of particular relevance for Alzheimer's disease (AD) etiology. Among these genes, that encoding paraoxonase 1 (PON1) has gained newfound interest from a public health perspective, as recent studies have suggested that PON1 L55M and Q192R genetic variants might affect individual susceptibility to environmental events, such as exposure to cholinesterase inhibitors. Cholinesterase inhibitor therapy being the treatment of choice for patients with mild to moderate AD, we sought to answer two main questions: (i) are these genetic variants associated with increased AD risk, earlier age of onset/death, or shorter AD duration; and (ii) do they affect the neuropathological hallmarks of AD? This genetic study used a large cohort of clinical and autopsy-confirmed AD cases and age-matched, cognitively intact controls from the Douglas Hospital Brain Bank, Quebec, Canada (n = 1066). The evidence presented here suggests multiple gender-specific effects of PON1 polymorphisms on AD etiopathology. The L55M Met allele exerts an AD risk-enhancing effect only in men (P &lt; 0.001), whereas both men and women carrying the M55M/Q192Q genotype exhibit increased survival (2.5 years, P &lt; 0.05) and later age of onset (1.5 years, P &lt; 0.05). These genetic variants are also individually and significantly associated, sometimes in opposite directions for both genders, with beta-amyloid levels (P &lt; 0.001), senile plaque accumulation (P &lt; 0.001) and choline acetyltransferase activity (P &lt; 0.05) in, respectively, two of two, five of six, and three of six brain areas. These results suggest an involvement of the PON1 gene in AD etiopathology and responses to treatment.
The Syrian hamster (Mesocricetus auratus) is a widely used species for the study of biological clock synchronization and photoperiodism. The serotoninergic system arising from the median (MnR) and the dorsal raph (DR) is a major actor in circadian clock synchronization. This serotoninergic system is also associated with functions and behaviours influenced by seasonal changes. The aim of the present study was to assess the influence of photoperiod on the daily functioning of the MnR and DR serotoninergic system. The morphology of both raph nuclei was analysed in hamsters kept under long and short photoperiod by immunocytochemical detection of two markers of the serotoninergic system, serotonin and tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH, the rate-limiting enzyme of serotonin synthesis). The morphological analysis revealed a fairly complex morphological organization of the DR and MnR along their caudo-rostral extent. This morphological organisation was similar in the two photoperiods. However, quantification of several markers of serotonin (5-HT) synthesis in the DR and MnR revealed a time-dependent functioning of serotoninergic cells that was locally influenced by photoperiod. In particular, the significant daily variations of tph2-mRNA and TPH levels in the rostral MnR, and of the 5-HT/5-HIAA (5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid) ratio within the suprachiasmatic nuclei, were abolished under short photoperiod. The results are discussed with regard to the known physiological role of the serotoninergic system on the biological clock.
Neural representations of even temporally unstructured stimuli can show complex temporal dynamics. In many systems, neuronal population codes show 'progressive differentiation', whereby population responses to different stimuli grow further apart during a stimulus presentation. Here we analysed the response of auditory cortical populations in rats to extended tones. At onset (up to 300 ms), tone responses involved strong excitation of a large number of neurons; during sustained responses (after 500 ms) overall firing rate decreased, but most cells still showed statistically significant rate modulation. Population vector trajectories evoked by different tone frequencies expanded rapidly along an initially similar trajectory in the first tens of milliseconds after tone onset, later diverging to smaller amplitude fixed points corresponding to sustained responses. The angular difference between onset and sustained responses to the same tone was greater than between different tones in the same stimulus epoch. No clear orthogonalization of responses was found with time, and predictability of the stimulus from population activity also decreased during this period compared with onset. The question of whether population activity grew more or less sparse with time depended on the precise mathematical sense given to this term. We conclude that auditory cortical population responses to tones differ from those reported in many other systems, with progressive differentiation not seen for sustained stimuli. Sustained acoustic stimuli are typically not behaviorally salient: we hypothesize that the dynamics we observe may instead allow an animal to maintain a representation of such sounds, at low energetic cost.


This study examined long-term effects of a tailored behavioural treatment protocol (TBT), as compared with an exercise based physical therapy protocol (EBT). One-hundred and twenty-two patients who, due to persistent musculoskeletal pain, consulted physical therapists in primary care were originally randomized to either of the two conditions. Follow-up assessments two-year post-treatment were completed by 65 participants. According to per-protocol analyses, short-term effects were maintained in both groups for the primary outcome, pain-related disability. The TBT-group reported lower disability levels compared with the EBT-group. Intention-to-treat analyses (ITT) conveyed similar results. Secondary outcomes of pain intensity, pain control, and functional self-efficacy were maintained over the 2-year post-treatment, but previous group differences were levelled out according to the most conservative method of ITT. Fear of movement/(re)injury increased in the EBT-group, and EBT participants reported higher fear of movement/(re)injury two years post-treatment compared to TBT. The study supports tailoring of treatments in concordance with patients' needs and preferences of activity goals and functional behavioural analyses including predictors of pain-related disability, for successful immediate outcomes and their maintenance in the long run. Exercise-based treatments resulted in somewhat smaller immediate treatment effects but had similar maintenance of effects over the 2-year follow-up period.
Acute tryptophan depletion (ATD) is extensively used to investigate the implication of serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine; 5-HT) in the onset and treatment of depression and cognitive disorders. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is strongly linked to the 5-HT system and plays an essential role in mood and memory processes. The present study investigated the effects of ATD upon BDNF in serum, hippocampus and prefrontal cortex in the rat to further explore the underlying mechanism of ATD. ATD significantly decreased peripheral tryptophan (TRP) levels and moderately interrupted 5-HT metabolism 4h after administration of the nutritional mixture. Although no direct effects of ATD upon serum or brain BDNF concentrations were found, a stress-mediated, decrease in BDNF was observed in the prefrontal cortex. Moreover, brain TRP levels correlated positively with BDNF in both the prefrontal cortex and hippocampus. Thus, BDNF-mediated mechanisms due to ATD and/or its application stress might underlie ATD-induced neurochemical and behavioural alterations.
Social isolation from weaning in rats produces behavioural and hippocampal structural changes at adulthood. Here, rats were group or isolation reared for eight-weeks. Following the initial four-week period of rearing, fluoxetine (10 mg/kg i.p.) was administered for 28 days. Changes in recognition memory, hippocampal monoamines, and cytoskeletal microtubules were investigated. Isolation-rearing for four- or eight-weeks produced recognition memory deficits that were not reversed by fluoxetine. Eight-weeks of isolation decreased alpha-tubulin acetylation (Acet-Tub) and the tyrosinated/detyrosinated alpha-tubulin ratio (Tyr/Glu-Tub), suggesting major alterations in microtubule dynamics and neuronal plasticity. In grouped rats, fluoxetine decreased Acet-Tub without changes in Tyr/Glu-Tub. In isolates, fluoxetine did not affect Acet-Tub but increased Tyr/Glu-Tub. Finally, fluoxetine altered serotonin metabolism in grouped, but not in isolated animals. Therefore, isolation-rearing changes the hippocampal responses of the serotonergic and microtubular system to fluoxetine. These findings show that early-life experience induces behavioural changes paralleled by alterations in cytoskeletal and neurochemical functions.

To account for sensorimotor synchronization, the information processing and the dynamical systems perspectives have developed different classes of models. While the former has focused on cycle-to-cycle correction of the timing errors, the latter deals with a continuous, state-dependent within-cycle coupling between the oscillating limb and the metronome. The purpose of the present study was to investigate the extent to which the two modeling frameworks partially capture the same behavior or, instead, account for different aspects of synchronization. A comparative two-level analysis (time intervals and movement trajectories) of synchronized tapping and synchronized oscillation data revealed distinct patterns of results with regard to (1) the relationship between the (a)symmetry of movement cycles and the achievement of timing goals, and (2) the sequential or within-cycle organization of synchronization processes. Our results support the idea that movement trajectories contribute to the achievement of synchronized movement timing in two different ways as a function of the (dis)continuous nature of movement. We suggest that the two modeling frameworks indeed account for different synchronization processes involved in the process of keeping time with the beat.
The neurophysiologic model of Parkinson's disease predicts nigrostriatal dopamine depletion leads to increased inhibitory basal ganglia output resulting in frontal neocortical hypoactivity. The nature of this hypoactivation is not well understood and modeled predominantly by a unilateral representation. Intracortical microstimulation (ICMS) was used to probe topographic movement representations of the left forelimb motor area 2 weeks following sham, unilateral left hemisphere or bilateral intrastriatal 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) infusion and under acute dopamine receptor antagonism with haloperidol in non-lesioned rats. 6-OHDA infusions induced a significant loss of substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) dopamine neurons. Bilateral SNc lesions and haloperidol significantly reduced map area which was preserved in unilateral lesions. All lesion conditions and haloperidol induced significant map reorganization, characterized by increased representation of distal forelimb movements. Results suggest basal ganglia dopamine deficiency can affect the topographic organization of sensorimotor neocortex and lead to significant reduction in the size of motor representations. We conclude that the neurophysiologic model is supported but that bilateral loss of dopamine is required to see a reduction in the size of motor maps.
In the present study, we examined whether activation of p-38alpha MAPK modulates mechanical allodynia and neuronal hyperexcitability, and if propentofylline (PPF, a glial modulator) modulates specifically localized activated p-38alpha MAPK expression in caudal regions remote from a low thoracic hemisection injury in rats. T13 spinal hemisection produces bilateral mechanical allodynia in hindpaws with evoked (in response to mechanical stimuli) neuronal hyperexcitability in lumbar spinal wide dynamic range (WDR) neurons compared to sham controls. The mechanical allodynia and the evoked activity of WDR neurons is attenuated by intrathecal and topical administration of SB203580, an inhibitor of p-38 MAPK activation, dose dependently (p&lt;0.05); however, the spontaneous activity showed no significant differences compared to sham controls. After T13 spinal hemisection, significantly increased phosphorylated (activated form) p-38alpha MAPK expression was present in both superficial and deep dorsal horn neurons as well as in microglia, but not in astrocytes, in the lumbar spinal cord compared to sham controls (p&lt;0.05). Intrathecal application of PPF significantly attenuated the expression of phosphorylated p-38alpha MAPK in superficial dorsal horn neurons (10 mM) and in microglia (1 and 10 mM) in the lumbar spinal cord compared to the hemisection group (p&lt;0.05). In conclusion, our present data demonstrate that activated neuronal and microglial, but not astrocytic, p-38alpha MAPK contributes to the maintenance of neuronal hyperexcitability in caudal regions following spinal cord injury.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a neurodegenerative disease characterized by demyelination/remyelination episodes that ultimately fail. Chemokines and their receptors have been implicated in both myelination and remyelination failure. Chemokines regulate migration, proliferation and differentiation of immune and neural cells during development and pathology. Previous studies have demonstrated that the absence of the chemokine receptor CXCR2 results in both disruption of early oligodendrocyte development and long-term structural alterations in myelination. Histological studies suggest that CXCL1, the primary ligand for CXCR2, is upregulated around the peripheral areas of demyelination suggesting that this receptor/ligand combination modulates responses to injury. Here we show that in focal LPC-induced demyelinating lesions, localized inhibition of CXCR2 signaling reduced lesion size and enhanced remyelination while systemic treatments were relatively less effective. Treatment of spinal cord cultures with CXCR2 antagonists reduced CXCL1 induced A2B5+ cell proliferation and increased differentiation of myelin producing cells. More critically, treatment of myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein peptide 35-55-induced EAE mice, an animal model of multiple sclerosis, with small molecule antagonists against CXCR2 results in increased functionality, decreased lesion load, and enhanced remyelination. Our findings demonstrate the importance of antagonizing CXCR2 in enhancing myelin repair by reducing lesion load and functionality in models of multiple sclerosis and thus providing a therapeutic target for demyelinating diseases.
The development of non-dopaminergic therapies for Parkinson's disease (PD) has attracted much interest in recent years. Among new classes of drugs, adenosine A(2A) antagonists have emerged as the best candidates. BIIB014, preladenant and ST-1535 are new adenosine A(2A) antagonists currently in Phase I and II clinical trials for evaluation of their efficacy in patients with PD. All these compounds have been proven safe and well tolerated. Moreover, results from Phase II trials also demonstrate that BIIB014 and preladenant are effective in reducing the waking time spent in OFF state in patients at the late stage of PD treated with L-DOPA. BIIB014 is also efficacious as monotherapy in patients at the early stage of PD. Finally, ST-1535, at this time, displays a very promising potential in experimental models of PD and a safe profile in clinical studies. This review summarizes pharmacological data available on these three A(2A) antagonists, their effects in animal models of PD and their profiles in clinical trials.
The need for disease-modifying drugs for Alzheimer's disease has become increasingly important owing to escalating disease prevalence and the associated socio-economic burden. Until recently, reducing brain amyloid accumulation has been the main therapeutic focus; however, increasing evidence suggests that targeting abnormal tau phosphorylation could be beneficial. Tau is phosphorylated by several protein kinases and this is balanced by dephosphorylation by protein phosphatases. Phosphorylation at specific sites can influence the physiological functions of tau, including its role in binding to and stabilizing the neuronal cytoskeleton. aberrant phosphorylation of tau could render it susceptible to potentially pathogenic alterations, including conformational changes, proteolytic cleavage and aggregation. While strategies that reduce tau phosphorylation in transgenic models of disease have been promising, our understanding of the mechanisms through which tau becomes abnormally phosphorylated in disease is lacking.
Genetic and biological studies provide strong support for the hypothesis that accumulation of beta amyloid peptide (Abeta) contributes to the etiology of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Growing evidence indicates that oligomeric soluble Abeta plays an important role in the development of synaptic dysfunction and the impairment of cognitive function in AD. The receptor for advanced glycation end products (RAGE), a multiligand receptor in the immunoglobulin superfamily, acts as a cell surface binding site for Abeta and mediates alternations in the phosphorylation state of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPKs). Recent results have shown that MAPKs are involved in neurodegenerative processes. In particular, changes in the phosphorylation state of various MAPKs by Abeta lead to synaptic dysfunction and cognitive decline, as well as development of inflammatory responses in AD. The present review summarizes the evidence justifying a novel therapeutic approach focused on inhibition of RAGE signaling in order to arrest or halt the development of neuronal dysfunction in AD.
The glucocorticoid-regulated protein annexin A1 is a potent inhibitor of hormone exocytosis in the neuroendocrine system, acting in a paracrine/juxtacrine manner. The signaling mechanism employed by annexin A1 in this process is uncertain, although we have recently presented evidence for a role of the formyl peptide receptor in vivo. We sought to characterize the mechanism of action of annexin A1 on exocytosis using the release of adrenocorticotrophin from the corticotroph-like cell line AtT20 as an in vitro model system. Through the comparison of adrenocorticotrophin release from cells expressing either wild-type annexin A1 or mutant forms, we show a critical involvement of phosphorylation on serine 27 and 45 in the translocation of the protein to the membrane and its inhibitory action on exocytosis. Moreover, we show, for the first time, that annexin A1-dependent inhibition of adrenocorticotrophin release involves the enhancement of actin polymerization to prevent exocytosis via formyl peptide receptor and Rho kinase signaling pathways. This finding has significant implications for the inhibitory actions of annexin A1 on exocytosis in other endocrine and immune contexts.
The recent discovery of the genetic causes for Parkinson's disease (PD) is fruitful; however, the continuing revelation of PD-related genes is rapidly outpacing the functional characterization of the gene products. Although the discovery of multiple PD-related genes places PD as one of the most complex multigenetic diseases of the brain, it will undoubtedly facilitate the unfolding of a central pathogenic pathway and an understanding of the etiology of PD. Recent findings of pathogenic mutations in leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) (PARK8) that are linked to the most common familial forms and some sporadic forms of PD provide a unique opportunity to gain insight into the pathogenesis of PD. Despite rapid growth in biochemical, structural and in vitro cell culture studies of LRRK2, the in vivo characterizations of LRRK2 function generally fall short and are largely limited to invertebrates. The investigation of LRRK2 or homologs of LRRK2 in nonmammalian models provides important clues with respect to the cellular functions of LRRK2, but an elucidation of the physiology and pathophysiology of LRRK2 relevant to PD would still depend on mammalian models established by multiple genetic approaches, followed by rigorous examination of the models for pathological process. This minireview summarizes previous studies of genes for ROCO and LRRK2 homologs in slime mold, nematode worms and fruit flies. It also discusses the results obtained from available mouse models of LRRK2 that begin to provide information for understanding LRRK2-mediated pathogenesis in PD.
FE65 is a neural adaptor protein known to interact with a number of proteins, including Alzheimer's amyloid beta-protein precursor (APP). Although several different functions have been proposed for FE65, its primary physiological role remains unclear. We previously showed that APP can liberate FE65 from the membrane as a result of APP phosphorylation, and that the liberated FE65 translocates into the nuclei of osmotically stressed cells. Within the nucleus, FE65 formed a patched structure at the nuclear matrix, which facilitated the induction of gammaH2AX [Nakaya T, Kawai T &amp; Suzuki T (2008) J Biol Chem283, 19119-19131]. Here, we report that the tumor suppressor p53 is colocalized with FE65 in the nuclear patches and is stabilized by FE65 in sorbitol-treated cells. In FE65 knockdown cells, protein levels of p53 targeted to the nuclear matrix were rapidly decreased through the proteasome degradation pathway after sorbitol treatment, as compared with control cells. These results suggest that the translocation of FE65 to the nuclear matrix, along with the formation of nuclear patches, is required for the stabilization of p53 by its suppression of the proteasome degradation pathway, thus facilitating the subsequent induction of gammaH2AX in osmotically stressed cells.
Endogenous DNA damage induced by hydrolysis, reactive oxygen species and alkylation modifies DNA bases and the structure of the DNA duplex. Numerous mechanisms have evolved to protect cells from these deleterious effects. Base excision repair is the major pathway for removing base lesions. However, several mechanisms of direct base damage reversal, involving enzymes such as transferases, photolyases and oxidative demethylases, are specialized to remove certain types of photoproducts and alkylated bases. Mismatch excision repair corrects for misincorporation of bases by replicative DNA polymerases. The determination of the 3D structure and visualization of DNA repair proteins and their interactions with damaged DNA have considerably aided our understanding of the molecular basis for DNA base lesion repair and genome stability. Here, we review the structural biochemistry of base lesion recognition and initiation of one-step direct reversal (DR) of damage as well as the multistep pathways of base excision repair (BER), nucleotide incision repair (NIR) and mismatch repair (MMR).
Serotonin is well known for its role in affection, but less known for its role in cognition. The serotonin transporter (SERT) has an essential role in serotonergic neurotransmission as it determines the magnitude and duration of the serotonin signal in the synaptic cleft. There is evidence to suggest that homozygous SERT knockout rats (SERT(-/-)), as well as humans with the short SERT allele, show stronger cognitive effects than wild-type control rats (SERT(+/+)) and humans with the long SERT allele after acute tryptophan depletion. In rats, SERT genotype is known to affect brain serotonin levels, with SERT(-/-) rats having lower intracellular basal serotonin levels than wild-type rats in several brain areas. In the present study, it was investigated whether SERT genotype affects memory performance in an object recognition task with different inter-trial intervals. SERT(-/-), heterozygous SERT knockout (SERT(+/-)) and SERT(+/+) rats were tested in an object recognition test applying an inter-trial interval of 2, 4 and 8 h. SERT(-/-) and SERT(+/-) rats showed impaired object memory with an 8 h inter-trial interval, whereas SERT(+/+) rats showed intact object memory with this inter-trial interval. Although brain serotonin levels cannot fully explain the SERT genotype effect on object memory in rats, these results do indicate that serotonin is an important player in object memory in rats, and that lower intracellular serotonin levels lead to enhanced memory loss. Given its resemblance with the human SERT-linked polymorphic region and propensity to develop depression-like symptoms, our findings may contribute to further understanding of mechanisms underlying cognitive deficits in depression.
Improved prevention and treatment of drug addiction will require deeper understanding of genetic factors contributing to susceptibility to excessive drug use. Intravenous operant self-administration methods have greatly advanced understanding of behavioral traits related to addiction. However, these methods are not suitable for large-scale genetic experiments in mice. Selective breeding of mice can aggregate 'addiction alleles' in a model that has the potential to identify coordinated effects of multiple genes. We produced mouse lines that orally self-administer high (MAHDR) or low (MALDR) amounts of methamphetamine, representing the first demonstration of selective breeding for self-administration of any psychostimulant drug. Conditioned place preference and taste aversion results indicate that MAHDR mice are relatively more sensitive to the rewarding effects and less sensitive to the aversive effects of methamphetamine, compared to MALDR mice. These results validate the oral route of self-administration for investigation of the motivational effects of methamphetamine and provide a viable alternative to intravenous self-administration procedures. Gene expression results for a subset of genes relevant to addiction-related processes suggest differential regulation by methamphetamine of apoptosis and immune pathways in the nucleus accumbens of MAHDR and MALDR mice. In each line, methamphetamine reduced an allostatic state by bringing gene expression back toward 'normal' levels. Genes differentially expressed in the drug-na ve state, including Slc6a4 (serotonin transporter), Htr3a (serotonin receptor 3A), Rela [nuclear factor kappaB (NFkappaB)] and Fos (cFos), represent candidates whose expression levels may predict methamphetamine consumption and susceptibility to methamphetamine reward and aversion.
Fear extinction is impaired in psychiatric disorders such as post-traumatic stress disorder and schizophrenia, which have a major genetic component. However, the genetic factors underlying individual variability in fear extinction remain to be determined. By comparing a panel of inbred mouse strains, we recently identified a strain, 129S1/SvImJ (129S1), that exhibits a profound and selective deficit in Pavlovian fear extinction, and associated abnormalities in functional activation of a key prefrontal-amygdala circuit, as compared with C57BL/6J. The first aim of the present study was to assess fear extinction across multiple 129 substrains representing the strain's four different genetic lineages (parental, steel, teratoma and contaminated). Results showed that 129P1/ReJ, 129P3/J, 129T2/SvEmsJ and 129X1/SvJ exhibited poor fear extinction, relative to C57BL/6J, while 129S1 showed evidence of fear incubation. On the basis of these results, the second aim was to further characterize the nature and specificity of the extinction phenotype in 129S1, as an exemplar of the 129 substrains. Results showed that the extinction deficit in 129S1 was neither the result of a failure to habituate to a sensitized fear response nor an artifact of a fear response to (unconditioned) tone per se. A stronger conditioning protocol (i.e. five x higher intensity shocks) produced an increase in fear expression in 129S1, relative to C57BL/6J, due to rapid rise in freezing during tone presentation. Taken together, these data show that impaired fear extinction is a phenotypic feature common across 129 substrains, and provide preliminary evidence that impaired fear extinction in 129S1 may reflect a pro-fear incubation-like process.
The very limited ability to regenerate axons after injury in the mature mammalian central nervous system (CNS) has been partly attributed to the growth restrictive nature of CNS myelin. Oligodendrocyte myelin glycoprotein (OMgp) was identified as a major myelin-derived inhibitor of axon growth. However, its role in axon regeneration in vivo is poorly understood. Here we describe the generation and molecular characterization of an OMgp allelic series. With a single gene targeting event and Cre/FLP mediated recombination, we generated an OMgp null allele with a LacZ reporter, one without a reporter gene, and an OMgp conditional allele. This allelic series will aid in the study of OMgp in adult CNS axon regeneration using mouse models of spinal cord injury. The conditional allele will overcome developmental compensation when employed with an inducible Cre, and allows for the study of temporal and tissue/cell type-specific roles of OMgp in CNS injury-induced axonal plasticity.
The Mpv17l protein has two isoforms, M-LPL and M-LPS, which both regulate the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and protect against mitochondrial oxidative stress and apoptosis. M-LPL is ubiquitously expressed, while M-LPS is expressed mostly in the kidney of aged animals. We identified a variety of transcripts of the Mpv17l gene that could encode novel isoforms by mapping expressed sequence tags on the mouse M-LP genomic locus. We analysed the expression and evolutionary conservation of a novel Mpv17l transcript (mpv17l-002) that is predicted to encode a new protein, termed M-LP2. The isoform M-LP2 has the full length of M-LPS plus six amino acids at the end of its amino terminus, which could be encoded by an alternative 5'-flanking sequence. We show that the mRNA of M-LP2 has a different pattern of expression than the mRNA of M-LPS, and sequences of both transcripts are conserved in the rodent genome; however, neither of these isoforms is detected in the human genome. These observations suggest that the functions of certain M-LP isoforms are tissue- and species-specific, implying that their potential involvement in ROS metabolism may be redundant or may be complemented by other members of the Mpv17 family.
Macrophages are critical cells in mediating the pathology of neurodegenerative disorders and enhancement of neuronal outward potassium (K(+)) current has implicated in neuronal apoptosis. To understand how activated macrophages induce neuronal dysfunction and injury, we studied the effects of lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated human monocytes-derived macrophage (MDM) on neuronal outward delayed rectifier K(+) current (I(K)) and resultant change on neuronal viability in primary rat hippocampal neuronal culture. Bath application of LPS-stimulated MDM-conditioned media (MCM) enhanced neuronal I(K) in a concentration-dependent manner, whereas non-stimulated MCM failed to alter neuronal I(K). The enhancement of neuronal I(K) was repeated in a macrophage-neuronal co-culture system. The link of stimulated MCM (MCM(+))-associated enhancement of I(K) to MCM(+)-induced neuronal injury, as detected by PI/DAPI (propidium iodide/4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindol) staining and MTT assay, was demonstrated by experimental results showing that addition of I(K) blocker tetraethylammonium to the culture protected hippocampal neurons from MCM(+)-associated challenge. Further investigation revealed elevated levels of K(v) 1.3 and K(v) 1.5 channel expression in hippocampal neurons after addition of MCM(+) to the culture. These results suggest that during brain inflammation macrophages, through their capacity of releasing bioactive molecules, induce neuronal injury by enhancing neuronal I(K) and that modulation of K(v) channels is a new approach to neuroprotection.
The purpose of this study was to investigate whether insulin, fibroblast growth factor (FGF), and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathways protect retinal neurons against excitotoxicity and regulate the proliferation of Mller glia. We found that intraocular injections of insulin or FGF2 had variable effects upon the phosphorylation of ERK1/2, p38 MAPK, and CREB, and the expression of immediate early genes, cFos and Egr1. Accumulations of pERK1/2, p38 MAPK, pCREB, cFos and Egr1 in response to insulin or FGF2 were confined to Mller glia, whereas retinal neurons did not seem to respond to growth factors. Unlike FGF2, insulin stimulated microglia-like cells to upregulate the intermediate filament transitin and lysosomal membrane glycoprotein (LMG). With microglia-like cells and Mller glia stimulated by insulin or FGF2 there were profound effects upon numbers of dying neurons in response to excitotoxic damage. Although FGF2 significantly reduced numbers of dying neurons, insulin significantly increased numbers of dying neurons. In addition to neuroprotective affects, FGF2 also &quot;primed&quot; the Mller glia to proliferate following retinal damage, whereas insulin had no effect upon glial proliferation. Further, we found that FGF receptor isoform 1 (FGFR1) and FGFR3 were prominently expressed in the retina, whereas the insulin receptor and FGFR2 are not expressed, or are expressed at very low levels. We conclude that MAPK-signaling through FGF receptors stimulates Mller glia to become more neuroprotective and progenitor-like, whereas insulin acting on Mller and microglia-like cells through unidentified receptors had the opposite effect.

A collaborative of Ontario-based long-term care associations, researchers, clinicians and educators representing various education initiatives related to dementia care and challenging behaviours used existing research evidence on adult learning principles, knowledge transfer and performance improvement to develop an evidence-based approach to support practice change and improvement in long-term care. The collaborative was led by the two provincial long-term care associations with no external funds to support its activities. This effort illustrates how people with common challenges, visions and goals can work together to share their intellectual and physical resources to address pervasive problems.
Theta oscillations (4-12 Hz) are associated with learning and memory and are found in the hippocampus and the entorhinal cortex (EC). The spatio-temporal organization of rhythmic activity in the hippocampal-EC complex was investigated in vitro. The voltage sensitive absorption dye NK3630 was used to record the changes in aggregated membrane voltage simultaneously from the neuronal networks involved. Oscillatory activity at 7.0 Hz (range, 5.8-8.2) was induced in the slice with the muscarinic agonist carbachol (75-100 microM) in the presence of bicuculline (5 microM). Time relations between all recording sites were analyzed using cross-correlation functions which revealed systematic phase shifts in the theta oscillation recorded from the different entorhinal and hippocampal subregions. These phase shifts could be interpreted as propagation delays. The oscillation propagates over the slice in a characteristic spatio-temporal sequence, where the entorhinal cortex leads, followed by the subiculum and then the dentate gyrus (DG), to finally reach the CA3 and the CA1 area. The delay from dentate gyrus to the CA3 area was 12.4 +/- 1.1 ms (mean +/- s.e.m.) and from the CA3 to the CA1 region it was 10.9 +/- 1.9 ms. The propagation delays between the hippocampal subregions resemble the latencies of electrically evoked responses in the same subregions. Removing the entorhinal cortex from the slice changed the spatiotemporal pattern into a more clustered pattern with higher local synchrony. We conclude that in the slice, carbachol-induced theta oscillations are initiated in the entorhinal cortex. The EC could serve to control the information flow through the neuronal network in the subregions of the hippocampus by synchronizing and/or entraining their responses to external inputs.
Sex hormones have actions in brain regions important for emotion, including the amygdala and prefrontal cortex. Previous studies have shown that cyclic sex hormones and hormone therapy after menopause modify responses to emotional events. Thus, this study examined whether hormone therapy modified emotion-induced brain activity in older women. Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), behavioral ratings (valence and arousal), and recognition memory were used to assess responses to emotionally laden scenes in older women currently using hormone therapy (HT) and women not currently using hormone therapy (NONE). We hypothesized that hormones would affect the amount or persistence of emotion-induced brain activity in the amygdala and ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (VLPFC). However, hormone therapy did not affect brain activity with the exception that NONE women showed a modest increase over time in amygdala activity to positive scenes. Hormone therapy did not affect behavioral ratings or memory for emotional scenes. The results were similar when women were regrouped based on whether they had ever used hormone therapy versus had never used hormone therapy. These results suggest that hormone therapy does not modify emotion-induced brain activity, or its persistence, in older women.
The ability of steroid hormones to rapidly influence cell physiology through nongenomic mechanisms raises the possibility that these molecules may play a role in the dynamic regulation of social behavior, particularly in species in which social stimuli can rapidly influence circulating steroid levels. We therefore tested if testosterone (T), which increases in male goldfish in response to sexual stimuli, can rapidly influence approach responses towards females. Injections of T stimulated approach responses towards the visual cues of females 30-45 min after the injection but did not stimulate approach responses towards stimulus males or affect general activity, indicating that the effect is stimulus-specific and not a secondary consequence of increased arousal. Estradiol produced the same effect 30-45 min and even 10-25 min after administration, and treatment with the aromatase inhibitor fadrozole blocked exogenous T's behavioral effect, indicating that T's rapid stimulation of visual approach responses depends on aromatization. We suggest that T surges induced by sexual stimuli, including preovulatory pheromones, rapidly prime males to mate by increasing sensitivity within visual pathways that guide approach responses towards females and/or by increasing the motivation to approach potential mates through actions within traditional limbic circuits.

The ability of functional MRI to acquire data from multiple brain areas has spurred developments not only in voxel-by-voxel analyses, but also in multivariate techniques critical to quantifying the interactions between brain areas. As the number of multivariate techniques multiplies, however, few studies in any modality have directly compared different connectivity measures, and fewer still have done so in the context of well-characterized neural systems. To focus specifically on the temporal dimension of interactions between brain regions, we compared Granger causality and coherency (Sun et al., 2004, 2005: Neuroimage 21:647-658, Neuroimage 28:227-237) in a well-studied motor system (1) to gain further insight into the convergent and divergent results expected from each technique, and (2) to investigate the leading and lagging influences between motor areas as subjects performed a motor task in which they produced different learned series of eight button presses. We found that these analyses gave convergent but not identical results: both techniques, for example, suggested an anterior-to-posterior temporal gradient of activity from supplemental motor area through premotor and motor cortices to the posterior parietal cortex, but the techniques were differentially sensitive to the coupling strength between areas. We also found practical reasons that might argue for the use of one technique over another in different experimental situations. Ultimately, the ideal approach to fMRI data analysis is likely to involve a complementary combination of methods, possibly including both Granger causality and coherency.
Neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses (NCLs; Batten disease) are collectively the most frequent autosomal-recessive neurodegenerative disease of childhood, but the underlying cellular and molecular mechanisms remain unclear. Several lines of evidence have highlighted the important role that non-somatic compartments of neurons (axons and synapses) play in the instigation and progression of NCL pathogenesis. Here, we report a progressive breakdown of axons and synapses in the brains of two different mouse models of NCL: Ppt1(-/-) model of infantile NCL and Cln6(nclf) model of variant late-infantile NCL. Synaptic pathology was evident in the thalamus and cortex of these mice, but occurred much earlier within the thalamus. Quantitative comparisons of expression levels for a subset of proteins previously implicated in regulation of axonal and synaptic vulnerability revealed changes in proteins involved with synaptic function/stability and cell-cycle regulation in both strains of NCL mice. Protein expression changes were present at pre/early-symptomatic stages, occurring in advance of morphologically detectable synaptic or axonal pathology and again displayed regional selectivity, occurring first within the thalamus and only later in the cortex. Although significant differences in individual protein expression profiles existed between the two NCL models studied, 2 of the 15 proteins examined (VDAC1 and Pttg1) displayed robust and significant changes at pre/early-symptomatic time-points in both models. Our study demonstrates that synapses and axons are important early pathological targets in the NCLs and has identified two proteins, VDAC1 and Pttg1, with the potential for use as in vivo biomarkers of pre/early-symptomatic axonal and synaptic vulnerability in the NCLs.

Hypertension, a major risk factor for stroke, is associated with altered arterial anatomy and function; however, the limited resolution of current imaging techniques has restricted the in vivo study of microvascular changes in the brain. In this report, we quantitatively examined the lenticulostriate arteries in hypertensive patients using ultrahigh-field 7T MRI. We compared the number of stems and branches, curvature, and tortuosity of the lenticulostriate arteries by 3D time-of-flight magnetic resonance angiography among 20 hypertensive patients (mean age: 46.6+/-9.1 years) and 20 age-matched healthy subjects (mean age: 47.7+/-8.1 years). The average numbers of stems and branches in hypertensive patients were significantly less than those of healthy subjects (P&lt;0.002). However, this difference was abolished in older volunteers (&gt;45 years old), whereas the difference between young hypertensive patients (&lt; or = 45 years old) and age-matched healthy controls was augmented by 55% for stems and 91% for branches (P=0.001). In comparison, there were no differences in the average curvature and tortuosity of the lenticulostriate arteries and no significant difference when corrected for smoking (P=0.064). In conclusion, our results showed that there was a substantial difference in the lenticulostriate arteries of hypertensive patients compared with healthy individuals when observed in vivo by ultrahigh-resolution 7T magnetic resonance angiography, and the difference was considerable in young subjects.
The calculation and visualization of temporal and phase information in the brain, such as during cognitive processes and epileptiform activity, is an important tool in EEG-based studies of physiological brain activation. To this end, we present a technique that estimates the phase and time offsets between different channels in EEG recordings of seizure activity. The offset information is visually combined with amplitude information to emphasize the most significant signal features. The estimates of phase and time offset are derived from the S-transform, a time-frequency representation that is similar to a windowed Fourier transform, but with a wavelet-like, scalable window. The phase offsets are obtained from the differences between phase spectra of S-transforms of different traces, and the time offsets are then obtained from the frequency-domain gradients of the phase offsets. This is analogous to the link between frequency &quot;phase ramping&quot; and time translation in ordinary Fourier analysis. In this paper, we present a synthetic example to help describe the method, and then show ictal EEG recordings from two human subjects. The differences between the recording times of spike-wave discharges at different electrodes exhibit behavior that is strongly dependent on time and frequency.
Cross-modal sensory integration between the auditory and visual systems has long been a topic of interest in cognitive neuroscience, but spatiotemporal cortical interdependence under audiovisual stimulation is still poorly understood. In this letter, parametric spectral analysis, specifically partial directed coherence (PDC), is used to study the cortical connective causal-interdependence network under audiovisual cognitive processes within the time window of the N1 component, i.e., 96--145 ms poststimulus in the event-related potential (ERP). A total of 13 subjects (age: 22.9+/-0.8 years; male/female = 9/4) performed an audiovisual recognition task. Multichannel EEG signals were analyzed using an adaptive multivariate autoregressive model to identify causal influences between different cortical areas. Three different cortical connective networks were detected, and by comparing the cortical PDC network in the early cognitive process of audiovisual (VA) perception with that in unimodal situations (V or A), it was found that the left temporal cortex (TC) might be responsible for audiovisual integration. Such electrophysiological findings were highly consistent with previous functional neuroimaging results. Moreover, the results presented here show the dynamics of lateral causal influences during audiovisual integration.
Neurobiology investigates how anatomical and physiological relationships in the nervous system mediate behavior. Molecular genetic techniques, applied to species such as the common fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster, have proven to be an important tool in this research. Large databases of transgenic specimens are being built and need to be analyzed to establish models of neural information processing. In this paper we present an approach for the exploration and analysis of neural circuits based on such a database. We have designed and implemented BrainGazer, a system which integrates visualization techniques for volume data acquired through confocal microscopy as well as annotated anatomical structures with an intuitive approach for accessing the available information. We focus on the ability to visually query the data based on semantic as well as spatial relationships. Additionally, we present visualization techniques for the concurrent depiction of neurobiological volume data and geometric objects which aim to reduce visual clutter. The described system is the result of an ongoing interdisciplinary collaboration between neurobiologists and visualization researchers.
Confocal microscopy is widely used in neurobiology for studying the three-dimensional structure of the nervous system. Confocal image data are often multi-channel, with each channel resulting from a different fluorescent dye or fluorescent protein; one channel may have dense data, while another has sparse; and there are often structures at several spatial scales: subneuronal domains, neurons, and large groups of neurons (brain regions). Even qualitative analysis can therefore require visualization using techniques and parameters fine-tuned to a particular dataset. Despite the plethora of volume rendering techniques that have been available for many years, the techniques standardly used in neurobiological research are somewhat rudimentary, such as looking at image slices or maximal intensity projections. Thus there is a real demand from neurobiologists, and biologists in general, for a flexible visualization tool that allows interactive visualization of multi-channel confocal data, with rapid fine-tuning of parameters to reveal the three-dimensional relationships of structures of interest. Together with neurobiologists, we have designed such a tool, choosing visualization methods to suit the characteristics of confocal data and a typical biologist's workflow. We use interactive volume rendering with intuitive settings for multidimensional transfer functions, multiple render modes and multi-views for multi-channel volume data, and embedding of polygon data into volume data for rendering and editing. As an example, we apply this tool to visualize confocal microscopy datasets of the developing zebrafish visual system.
Opisthotonus is known to occur in tetanus, rabies, cerebral malaria, neurosyphilis, acute cerebral injury and other medical conditions. Opisthotonus, so far, has not been reported in any major psychiatric disorder. Authors report a case of recurrent opisthotonus presenting concurrently with other catatonic signs which showed dramatic response to combination of lorazepam and electroconvulsive therapy (ECT). Clinicians should consider the possibility of catatonia in the differential diagnosis of opisthotonus since catatonia can be treated easily with benzodiazepines and ECT.
Adverse early experience impairs adult learning and memory. Previously, we showed that neonatal maternal separation impaired eyeblink conditioning in adult male rats. This impairment was correlated with increases in glucocorticoid receptor expression in the posterior region of the cerebellar interpositus nucleus, a key structure in the neural circuitry controlling eyeblink conditioning. To begin to establish how separation results in altered glucocorticoid receptor expression in adulthood, we assessed the developmental pattern of glucocorticoid receptor expression in the interpositus nucleus in controls versus rats that had undergone maternal separation for 1h per day on postnatal days 2-14. Rat pups were exposed to either standard rearing (control) or maternal separation and glucocorticoid receptor expression was assessed at postnatal day 15, postnatal day 21, and adulthood. In control males, glucocorticoid receptor expression in the interpositus nucleus declined between postnatal days 15 and 21, then increased into adulthood. On postnatal day 15, there was less glucocorticoid receptor expression in the interpositus nucleus in males that were maternally separated than in controls. However, neonatal separation significantly attenuated the normal decline in the third postnatal week, resulting in significantly greater glucocorticoid receptor expression in the interpositus in separated males than in control rats at postnatal day 21. The developmental pattern of glucocorticoid receptor expression was not altered by maternal separation in female rats. Thus, maternal separation may impair learning and memory in adult males by altering normal developmental changes in glucocorticoid receptor expression.


The development of forensic psychiatric risk assessments is discussed from a clinical point of view using the example of Sweden. A central task in forensic psychiatry has traditionally been to identify dangerous, mentally disordered subjects considered to be prone to commit violent acts. Over time, &quot;dangerousness&quot; has been reworded into &quot;risk&quot;. Nevertheless, such assessments have generally been based on the psychiatric factors characterising the individual patient, while group interaction, situational factors, or social and cultural circumstances, such as the availability of alcohol and drugs, have been largely overlooked. That risk assessments have a focused on people with a diagnosis of &quot;mental disorder&quot; and been used as grounds for coercive measures and integrity violations has somehow been accepted as a matter of course in the public and political debate. Even the basic question whether offenders with a mental disorder are really more prone to criminal recidivism than other offenders seems to have been treated light-handedly and dealt with merely by epidemiological comparisons between groups of persons with broad ranges of psychosocial vulnerability and the general population. Legal texts, instructions and guidelines from the authorities in charge are often vague and general, while actors in the judicial system seem to put their trust in psychiatric opinions. The exchange of professional opinions, general public expectations, and judicial decision processes poses a huge risk for misunderstandings based on divergent expectations and uses of terminology.
The assumption that mental disorder is a cause of crime is the foundation of forensic psychiatry, but conceptual, epistemological, and empirical analyses show that neither mental nor crime, or the causation implied, are clear-cut concepts. &quot;Mental&quot; denotes heterogeneous aspects of a person such as inner experiences, cognitive abilities, and behaviour patterns described in a non-physical vocabulary. In psychology and psychiatry, mental describes law-bound, caused aspects of human functioning that are predictable and generalizable. Problems defined as mental disorders are end-points of dimensional inter-individual differences rather than natural categories. Deficits in cognitive faculties, such as attention, verbal understanding, impulse control, and reality assessment, may be susceptibility factors that relate to behaviours (such as crimes) by increasing the probability (risk) for a negative behaviour or constitute causes in the sense of INUS conditions (Insufficient but Non-redundant parts of Unnecessary but Sufficient conditions). Attributing causes to complex behaviours such as crimes is not an unbiased process, and mental disorders will attract disproportionate attention when it comes to explanations of behaviours that we wish to distance ourselves from. Only by rigorous interpretation of what psychiatry actually can inform us about, using empirical analyses of quantified aggressive antisocial behaviours and their possible explanatory factors, can we gain a clearer notion of the relationship between mental disorder and crime.
Neuregulin 1 (Nrg1) has been widely recognized as a candidate gene for schizophrenia. This study therefore investigated mice heterozygous for a mutation in the transmembrane domain of this trophic factor (Nrg1+/- mice) in a number of behavioural test systems with relevance to schizophrenia, including psychotropic drug-induced locomotor hyperactivity and prepulse inhibition (PPI) of startle. Baseline locomotor activity in the open field or in photocell cages was slightly, but significantly enhanced in Nrg1+/- mice compared to wild-type littermate controls at age 12-16 wk, but not at age 6 months. The ability of amphetamine, phencyclidine (PCP) or MK-801 to induce locomotor hyperactivity was not significantly different between the genotypes. There was no difference in baseline PPI, startle or startle habituation and there was no difference in the effect of apomorphine, amphetamine or MK-801 on any of these parameters. Only treatment with the 5-HT1A receptor agonist 8-hydroxy-dipropylaminotetralin (8-OH-DPAT) showed a differential effect between genotypes, with a disruption of PPI occurring in Nrg1+/- mice compared to no effect in wild-type controls. This treatment also induced a significant reduction of startle which could have influenced the result. The density of dopamine D2 receptors in the forebrain and of 5-HT1A receptors in the hippocampus and raphe nuclei was not different between Nrg1+/- mice and controls. These studies add to the knowledge about behavioural effects in this mouse model of impaired Nrg1 function and suggest that a number of the behavioural tests with relevance to schizophrenia are normal in these mice.
There are many parallels between the neural regulation of seasonal breeding in birds and puberty in primates, but most studies of the regulation of puberty in vertebrates involve the use of rodents. The findings from rodent studies are often perceived as being typical of mammals and therefore pertinent to human reproductive biology and in many cases, rodent models have a great deal to offer in terms of an understanding of the regulation of puberty and reproductive biology. However, knowledge available from comparative work perhaps highlights mechanistic similarities that may not exist between rodent and primate systems. In this short review, we highlight some of the advantages of studying avian reproductive biology in this regard. We discuss disparities between rodent puberty and primate puberty, and similarities between primates and birds. Thus, understanding the mechanisms regulating avian puberty and seasonal breeding might in some cases provide greater insight into the mechanistic control of puberty in nonrodent mammals. We also describe in detail the neuroendocrine regulation of reproduction in birds and aim to provoke discussion of the possible roles of thyroid hormones and multiple forms of gonadotropin-releasing hormone in avian and mammalian reproduction.
Circadian rhythms impact a variety of behavioral and physiological functions contributing to longevity and successful reproduction. In their natural environments, individuals of a species are faced with a multitude of challenges and the coordination of internal processes and behavior with external pressures has been hypothesized to be an important target of natural selection. Several lines of evidence from cyanobacteria, Drosophila, and plants provide strong support for an important role of the circadian clock in survival and reproductive success. Similarly in mammals, disruptions in circadian function markedly impact reproduction and lifespan. The present review discusses research outlining the proximate and ultimate mechanisms responsible for the central and peripheral control of the reproductive axis. Because precise temporal coordination of the endocrine system is particularly crucial for reproduction by females, the present overview focuses on the role of circadian timing in this sex.


We used discrete choice conjoint analysis to model the ways 645 children's mental health (CMH) professionals preferred to provide information to parents seeking CMH services. Participants completed 20 choice tasks presenting experimentally varied combinations of the study's 14 4-level CMH information transfer attributes. Latent class analysis revealed three segments. Open Access professionals (32.2%) preferred that intake workers automatically provide all parents with CMH information. They preferred information prepared by professional organizations and located at accessible settings such as public schools. They responded favorably to the internet as a source of information for parents. Controlled Access professionals (22.2%) preferred information that was approved and recommended by a child's therapist, prepared by an experienced clinician, and located at hospitals and CMH clinics. Process Sensitive professionals (45.6%) showed a stronger preference for active learning materials with parenting groups and therapist &quot;coaching&quot; calls supporting the knowledge transfer process. Simulations suggested that realizing the benefits of CMH information requires the development of knowledge transfer strategies that align the preferences of professionals with those of the families they serve.


In order to be relevant in our 'scientific' times, it is necessary that we psychoanalysts situate our ideas in thoughtful and respectful relationship to neighbouring disciplines such as genetics, cultural studies, and neuro-anatomy. In this paper I suggest that, although psychoanalysis still continues to have valuable contributions to make to the understanding of human sexual experience and behaviour, in order to make these contributions relevant we must tune in with openness to the challenges posed by the unfolding discoveries in the other disciplines that grapple with the arena of human sexuality. I will suggest ways in which research on sexual desire and gender identity may be assimilated into psychoanalytic thinking and give some examples of its use in analytic practice.
Preparations of the plant Acorus calamus (calamus or sweet flag) (A. calamus) are available via internet trade and marketed as being hallucinogenic. In 2003-2006, the Swedish Poisons Information Centre received inquiries about 30 clinical cases of intentional intoxication with A. calamus products. The present investigation aimed to identify alpha- and beta-asarone, considered active components of A. calamus, and metabolites thereof in urine samples collected in seven of these cases. To further aid the identification of asarone biotransformation products, a calamus oil preparation was incubated with the fungus Cunninghamella elegans, which is used as a microbial model of mammalian drug metabolism. Using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) analysis in selected ion monitoring mode, alpha-asarone was detected in five urine samples at concentrations ranging between approximately 11 and 1150 microg/L and beta-asarone in four of those at approximately 22-220 microg/L. A previously identified asarone metabolite, trans-2,4,5-trimethoxycinnamic acid (trans-TMC), was detected in the fungus broth by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry whereas cis-TMC was tentatively identified in the human urine samples. Using GC-MS, a hydroxylated asarone metabolite was identified both in fungus broth and urine samples. However, this study demonstrated no evidence for the presence of 2,4,5-trimethoxyamphetamine, claimed as a hallucinogenic component of A. calamus. The main clinical symptom reported by the patients was prolonged vomiting that sometimes lasted more than 15 h.
We investigated the relationship of discrepancies between VIQ and NVIQ (IQ split) to autism symptoms and adaptive behavior in a sample of high-functioning (mean FSIQ = 98.5) school-age children with autism spectrum disorders divided into three groups: discrepantly high VIQ (n = 18); discrepantly high NVIQ (n = 24); and equivalent VIQ and NVIQ (n = 36). Discrepantly high VIQ and NVIQ were associated with autism social symptoms but not communication symptoms or repetitive behaviors. Higher VIQ and NVIQ were associated with better adaptive communication but not socialization or Daily Living Skills. IQ discrepancy may be an important phenotypic marker in autism. Although better verbal abilities are associated with better functional outcomes in autism, discrepantly high VIQ in high-functioning children may also be associated with social difficulties.
Increased motivation towards social stimuli in Williams syndrome (WS) led us to hypothesize that a face's human status would have greater impact than face's orientation on WS' face processing abilities. Twenty-nine individuals with WS were asked to categorize facial emotion expressions in real, human cartoon and non-human cartoon faces presented upright and inverted. When compared to both chronological and mental age-matched controls, WS participants were able to categorize emotions from human, but not from non-human faces. The use of different perceptual strategies to process human and non-human faces could not explain this dissociation. Rather, the findings suggest an increased sensitivity to socially relevant cues, such as human facial features, possibly related to the hallmark feature of WS-hypersociability.
Hydrogen sulfide (H(2)S) has been recognized as a smooth muscle relaxant. Cystathionine gamma-lyase, which is localized to smooth muscle, is thought to be the major H(2)S-producing enzyme in the thoracic aorta. Here we show that 3-mercaptopyruvate sulfurtransferase (3MST) and cysteine aminotransferase (CAT) are localized to vascular endothelium in the thoracic aorta and produce H(2)S. Both 3MST and CAT were localized to endothelium. Lysates of vascular endothelial cells produced H(2)S from cysteine and alpha-ketoglutarate. The present study provides a new insight into the production and release of H(2)S as a smooth muscle relaxant from vascular endothelium.
Functional near-infrared spectroscopy has the potential to easily detect cerebral functional hemodynamics. However, in practical fNIRS measurements, a subject's physical or systemic physiological activities often cause undesirable artifacts. Such activities can be evoked even by task execution. In this case, observed artifacts may correlate strongly with the task sequence, and it is difficult to eliminate them by conventional signal filtering techniques. We present a theoretical analysis and Monte Carlo simulations of layered media in which both scattering and absorption changes occur, and show that a multidistance probe arrangement is effective in removing artifacts and extracting functional hemodynamics. The probe arrangement is determined based on simulation results. Artifacts induced by nonfunctional tasks (body tilting, head nodding, and breath holding) are clearly observed when a conventional method is used; such artifacts are appreciably reduced by the proposed method. Signals evoked by single-sided finger movements are observed at both hemispheres when we use a conventional method. On the other hand, localized signals at the primary motor area are observed by the proposed method. A statistically significant increase in oxygenated hemoglobin and decrease in deoxygenated hemoglobin are simultaneously observed at the contralateral primary motor area.
We developed a two-photon microscope optimized for physiologically manipulating single neurons through their postsynaptic receptors. The optical layout fulfills the stringent design criteria required for high-speed, high-resolution imaging in scattering brain tissue with minimal photodamage. We detail the practical compensation of spectral and temporal dispersion inherent in fast laser beam scanning with acousto-optic deflectors, as well as a set of biological protocols for visualizing nearly diffraction-limited structures and delivering physiological synaptic stimuli. The microscope clearly resolves dendritic spines and evokes electrophysiological transients in single neurons that are similar to endogenous responses. This system enables the study of multisynaptic integration and will assist our understanding of single neuron function and dendritic computation.
The performance of near-infrared spectroscopy is sometimes degraded by the systemic physiological interference in the extracerebral layer. There is some systemic interference, which is highly correlated with the functional response evoked by a task execution. This kind of interference is difficult to remove by using ordinary techniques. A multidistance measurement method is one of the possible solutions for this problem. The multidistance measurement method requires estimation parameters derived from partial pathlength values of tissue layers to calculate an absorption coefficient change from a temporal absorbance change. Because partial path lengths are difficult to obtain, experimentally, we estimated them by a Monte Carlo simulation based on a five-layered slab model of a human adult head. Model parameters such as thickness and the transport scattering coefficient of each layer depend on a subject and a measurement position; thus, we assumed that these parameters obey normal distributions around standard parameter values. We determined the estimation parameters that provide a good separation performance in average for the model parameter distribution. The obtained weighting is robust to model parameter deviation and provides smaller errors on average compared to the parameters, which are determined without considering parameter distribution.
The use of nanoparticles in stem cell research is relatively recent, although very significant in the last 5 years with the publication of about 400 papers. The recent advances in the preparation of some nanomaterials, growing awareness of material science and tissue engineering researchers regarding the potential of stem cells for regenerative medicine, and advances in stem cell biology have contributed towards the boost of this research field in the last few years. Most of the research has been focused in the development of new nanoparticles for stem cell imaging; however, these nanoparticles have several potential applications such as intracellular drug carriers to control stem cell differentiation and biosensors to monitor in real time the intracellular levels of relevant biomolecules/enzymes. This review examines recent advances in the use of nanoparticles for stem cell tracking, differentiation and biosensing. We further discuss their utility and the potential concerns regarding their cytotoxicity.
T-type Ca(2+) currents have been detected in cells from the external muscular layers of gastrointestinal smooth muscles and appear to contribute to the generation of pacemaker potentials in interstitial cells of Cajal from those tissues. However, the Ca(2+) channel alpha subunit responsible for these currents has not been determined. We established that the alpha subunit of the alpha(1H) Ca(2+) channel is expressed in single myocytes and interstitial cells of Cajal using reverse transcription and polymerase chain reaction from whole tissue, laser capture microdissected tissue and single cells isolated from the mouse jejunum. Whole-cell voltage clamp recordings demonstrated that a nifedipine and Cd(2+) resistant, mibefradil-sensitive current is present in myocytes dissociated from the jejunum. Electrical recordings from the circular muscle layer demonstrated that mibefradil reduced the frequency and initial rate of rise of the electrical slow wave. Gene targeted knockout of both alleles of the cacna1h gene, which encodes the alpha(1H) Ca(2+) channel subunit, resulted in embryonic lethality because of death of the homozygous knockouts prior to E13.5 days in utero. We conclude that a channel with the pharmacological and molecular characteristics of the alpha(1H) Ca(2+) channel subunit is expressed in interstitial cells of Cajal and myocytes from the mouse jejunum, and that ionic conductances through the alpha(1H) Ca(2+) channel contribute to the upstroke of the pacemaker potential. Furthermore, the survival of mice that do not express the alpha(1H) Ca(2+) channel protein is dependent on the genetic background and targeting approach used to generate the knockout mice.
Apolipoprotein E (ApoE), a cholesterol transporter and an immunomodulator, is brain protective after experimental stroke and implicated in brain repair. Here, we study the involvement of ApoE in the restoration of brain function after experimental stroke, by using animal housing conditions that differentially improve recovery after occlusion of the middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO). We found that after MCAO the ApoE levels increased in the injured hemisphere over a 30 days recovery period. The exception was a proximal narrow peri-infarct rim, in which ApoE was solely localized in S100beta(+)/glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) negative reactive astrocytes at 4 to 7 days of recovery. Enriched housing after MCAO caused a marked decrease in ApoE levels compared with standard housing conditions, particularly in the ApoE/S100beta(+) reactive astrocytes. In addition, the levels of interleukin 1beta were lower in animals housed in an enriched environment. We propose that during the subacute phase after experimental stroke a zone for tissue reorganization with low cellular ApoE levels is formed. We conclude that the strong sensori-motor stimulation provided by enriched housing conditions mitigates the inflammatory response after stroke decreasing the level of ApoE that may contribute to the observed improvement of functional recovery.
The ventral medulla oblongata is critical for cardiorespiratory regulation. Here we review previous literature relating to sites within the ventral medulla that have been identified as having a 'cardiovascular' or 'respiratory' function. Together with the maps generated here, of sites from which cardiovascular and respiratory responses were evoked by glutamate microinjection, specific 'cardiovascular' regions have been defined and delineated. Commonly investigated regions, including the vasopressor rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM) and vasodepressor caudal ventrolateral medulla (CVLM), or areas only described by others, such as the medullary cerebral vasodilator area, are included for completeness. Emphasis is given to the caudal medulla, where three pressor regions, the caudal pressor area (CPA), the intermediate pressor area (IPA) and the medullo-cervical pressor area (MCPA), caudal to the vasodepressor CVLM were defined in the original data provided. The IPA is most responsive under pentobarbitone rather than urethane anaesthesia clearly delineating it from both the rostrally located CPA and the caudally located MCPA. The description of these multiple pressor areas appears to clarify the confusion that surrounds the identification of the 'CPA'. Also noted is a vasopressor region adjacent to the vasodepressor CVLM. Apart from the well described ventral respiratory column, a region medial to the pre-Btzinger is described, from which increases in both phrenic nerve frequency and amplitude were evoked. Limitations associated with the technique of glutamate microinjection to define functionally specific regions are discussed. Particular effort has been made to define and delineate the regions with respect to ventrally located anatomical landmarks rather than the commonly used ventral surface or dorsal landmarks such as the obex or calamus scriptorius that may vary with the brain orientation or histological processing. This should ensure that a region can easily be defined by all investigators. Study of defined regions will help expedite the identification of the role of the multiple cell groups with diverse neurotransmitter complements that exist even within each of the regions described, in coordinating the delivery of oxygenated blood to the tissues.
Sympathetic preganglionic neurons (SPN) are critical links in the sympathetic neural circuitry that controls every organ in the body. All sympathetic outflow to the periphery comes from SPN, which send their axons from thoracic and upper lumbar spinal segments to innervate post-ganglionic neurons in sympathetic ganglia and chromaffin cells in the adrenal medulla. Despite over 30 years of study, we still do not have a sufficiently detailed understanding of the synaptic circuits through which these important neurons receive information from other central sites. We know that there is direct synaptic input to SPN from both supraspinal and intraspinal neurons, but not sensory neurons. Ultrastructural studies support functional evidence that amino acids are the primary fast-acting transmitters controlling SPN activity and indicate that an amino acid transmitter occurs in every synaptic input to an SPN. In addition, axons that synapse on SPN contain neuropeptides and monoamines, which would co-exist with and be released with the amino acids. Receptors and transporters for transmitters have also been localized in SPN inputs. Light and electron microscopic observations suggest that there are qualitative and/or quantitative differences in the neurochemical types and origins of axons, which provide synaptic input to SPN that supply different targets or have different functions. However, more research is required before it can be confirmed that SPN receive projection- or function-specific patterns of innervation. This information is likely to be important if we are to understand how the central nervous system differentially regulates sympathetic outflow to different target tissues.



Cognitive reserve theory helps to explain the neuropsychological expression of neurologic disease (e.g., Alzheimer's disease; Stern, 2006). Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a neurologic disease characterized by information processing inefficiency and verbal learning and memory deficits. The current study is the first to investigate whether higher cognitive reserve moderates the relationship between MS and cognitive functioning. A word-reading proxy of premorbid intelligence was used to estimate cognitive reserve for 58 persons with MS and 43 healthy controls. Dependent measures of simple processing efficiency, complex information processing efficiency, and verbal learning and memory were administered. There were significant Group x Cognitive Reserve interactions for complex information processing efficiency and verbal learning and memory, such that persons with MS demonstrated deficits relative to controls at lower, but not higher, levels of reserve. No such interaction was found for simple processing efficiency. The protective influence of higher cognitive reserve against disease-related cognitive deficits is discussed.
We report a 57-year-old man with intraparenchymal pneumocephalus caused by ethmoid sinus osteoma. He had a history of severe allergic rhinitis, which caused him to frequently blow his nose, and he was referred to our hospital with headache and mild left hemiparesis. CT scans revealed a large volume of intraparenchymal air entrapped in the right frontal lobe related to an osteoma in the ethmoid sinus. The osteoma eroded the upper wall of the sinus and extended into the anterior cranial fossa. At operation, we observed that the osteoma had protruded intracranially through the skull base, disrupted the dura and extended into the frontal lobe. To our knowledge, this is the first report of a patient with intraparenchymal pneumocephalus caused by an ethmoid sinus osteoma.
We report a 14-year-old girl with a delayed diagnosis of stroke, highlighting one of the most significant obstacles to offering acute thrombolytic therapies in teenagers and children. Feasibility of treatment is further limited by a lack of dosage and safety data in the paediatric population. Improved community awareness and more rapid recognition of stroke may reduce lag time to diagnosis.

Phantom limb sensations may be linked to motor activities in the deafferented cortices of amputees, with artificial visual feedback of an amputated limb leading to enhanced phantom sensations. The present study was designed to verify if cortical motor activity related to an amputated limb can be triggered by visual input using an objective behavioral measure and with a neurophysiological correlate. Trauma amputees and normally limbed subjects showed superior performance in a mirror-drawing task when the mirror was placed sagittally (giving visual feedback of the amputated/inactive limb) compared with when it was placed frontally. Measurement of lateralized movement-related brain potentials showed that, under the lateral mirror condition, contralateral motor activity of the viewed hand was observed in both normal subjects and trauma amputees. In contrast, this activity was not observed in subjects with congenital limb absence. These findings suggest that, in traumatic amputees, motor enhancement due to visualization of the movements of the missing limb reflects the effectiveness of motor commands to the missing limb, strengthening the hypothesis of the functional survival of deafferented cortical motor areas.
The ability to select an appropriate motor response by resolving competition among alternative responses plays a major role in cognitive performance. fMRI studies suggest that the development of this skill is related to the maturation of the frontal cortex that underlies the improvement of motor inhibition abilities. However, fMRI cannot characterize the temporal properties of motor response competition and motor activation in general. We studied the development of the time course of resolving motor response competition. To this end, we used the lateralized readiness potential (LRP), an ERP measure, for tracking correct and incorrect motor cortex activation in children in real time. Fourteen children and 14 adults took part in an animal-size Stroop task where they selected between two animals, presented simultaneously on the computer screen, which was larger in real life. In the incongruent condition, the LRP detected stronger and longer lasting incorrect response activation in children than in adults. LRP results could explain behavioral congruency effects, the generally longer RT in children than in adults and the larger congruency effect in children than in adults. In contrast, the peak latency of ERP waves, usually associated with stimulus processing speed, could explain neither of the above effects. We conclude that the development of resolving motor response competition, relying on motor inhibition skills, is a crucial factor in child development. Our study demonstrates that the LRP is an excellent tool for studying motor activation in children.
As literate adults, we appreciate numerical values as abstract entities that can be represented by a numeral, a word, a number of lines on a scorecard, or a sequence of chimes from a clock. This abstract, notation-independent appreciation of numbers develops gradually over the first several years of life. Here, using functional magnetic resonance imaging, we examine the brain mechanisms that 6- and 7-year-old children and adults recruit to solve numerical comparisons across different notation systems. The data reveal that when young children compare numerical values in symbolic and nonsymbolic notations, they invoke the same network of brain regions as adults including occipito-temporal and parietal cortex. However, children also recruit inferior frontal cortex during these numerical tasks to a much greater degree than adults. Our data lend additional support to an emerging consensus from adult neuroimaging, nonhuman primate neurophysiology, and computational modeling studies that a core neural system integrates notation-independent numerical representations throughout development but, early in development, higher-order brain mechanisms mediate this process.
In order to understand how emotional state influences the listener's physiological response to speech, subjects looked at emotion-evoking pictures while 32-channel EEG evoked responses (ERPs) to an unchanging auditory stimulus (&quot;danny&quot;) were collected. The pictures were selected from the International Affective Picture System database. They were rated by participants and differed in valence (positive, negative, neutral), but not in dominance and arousal. Effects of viewing negative emotion pictures were seen as early as 20 msec (p = .006). An analysis of the global field power highlighted a time period of interest (30.4-129.0 msec) where the effects of emotion are likely to be the most robust. At the cortical level, the responses differed significantly depending on the valence ratings the subjects provided for the visual stimuli, which divided them into the high valence intensity group and the low valence intensity group. The high valence intensity group exhibited a clear divergent bivalent effect of emotion (ERPs at Cz during viewing neutral pictures subtracted from ERPs during viewing positive or negative pictures) in the time period of interest (r(Phi) = .534, p &lt; .01). Moreover, group differences emerged in the pattern of global activation during this time period. Although both groups demonstrated a significant effect of emotion (ANOVA, p = .004 and .006, low valence intensity and high valence intensity, respectively), the high valence intensity group exhibited a much larger effect. Whereas the low valence intensity group exhibited its smaller effect predominantly in frontal areas, the larger effect in the high valence intensity group was found globally, especially in the left temporal areas, with the largest divergent bivalent effects (ANOVA, p &lt; .00001) in high valence intensity subjects around the midline. Thus, divergent bivalent effects were observed between 30 and 130 msec, and were dependent on the subject's subjective state, whereas the effects at 20 msec were evident only for negative emotion, independent of the subject's behavioral responses. Taken together, it appears that emotion can affect auditory function early in the sensory processing stream.
Conflict-related cognitive processes are critical for adapting to sudden environmental changes that confront the individual with inconsistent or ambiguous information. Thus, these processes play a crucial role to cope with daily life. Generally, conflicts tend to accumulate especially in complex and threatening situations. Therefore, the question arises how conflict-related cognitive processes are modulated by the close succession of conflicts. In the present study, we investigated the effect of interactions between different types of conflict on performance as well as on electrophysiological parameters. A task-irrelevant auditory stimulus and a task-relevant visual stimulus were presented successively. The auditory stimulus consisted of a standard or deviant tone, followed by a congruent or incongruent Stroop stimulus. After standard prestimuli, performance deteriorated for incongruent compared to congruent Stroop stimuli, which were accompanied by a widespread negativity for incongruent versus congruent stimuli in the event-related potentials (ERPs). However, after deviant prestimuli, performance was better for incongruent than for congruent Stroop stimuli and an additional early negativity in the ERP emerged with a fronto-central maximum. Our data show that deviant auditory prestimuli facilitate specifically the processing of stimulus-related conflict, providing evidence for a conflict-priming effect.
The crayfish swimmeret system undergoes transitions between a silent state and an active state. In the silent state, no patterned firing occurs in swimmeret motor neurons. In the active state, bursts of spikes in power stroke motor neurons alternate periodically with bursts of spikes in return stroke motor neurons. In preparations of the isolated crayfish central nervous system (CNS), the temporal structures of motor patterns expressed in the active state are similar to those expressed by the intact animal. These transitions can occur spontaneously, in response to stimulation of command neurons, or in response to application of neuromodulators and transmitter analogues. We used single-electrode voltage clamp of power-stroke exciter and return-stroke exciter motor neurons to study changes in membrane currents during spontaneous transitions and during transitions caused by bath-application of carbachol or octopamine (OA). Spontaneous transitions from silence to activity were marked by the appearance of a standing inward current and periodic outward currents in both types of motor neurons. Bath-application of carbachol also led to the development of these currents and activation of the system. Using low Ca(2+)-high Mg(2+) saline to block synaptic transmission, we found that the carbachol-induced inward current included a direct response by the motor neuron and an indirect component. Spontaneous transitions from activity to silence were marked by disappearance of the standing inward current and the periodic outward currents. Bath-application of OA led promptly to the disappearance of both currents, and silenced the system. OA also acted directly on both types of motor neurons to cause a hyperpolarizing outward current that would contribute to silencing the system.
Prions are infectious agents resulting from the conversion of a normal cellular protein, PrP(C), to a misfolded species, PrP(Sc). Iatrogenic transmission of prions is known from surgical procedures involving stainless steel materials. Here, it was shown that stainless steel containing nickel and molybdenum binds PrP(Sc) more efficiently and transmits infection to cells in culture to a higher degree than if these elements are not present. Furthermore, both nickel and molybdenum alone adsorbed PrP(Sc), and nickel powder could be used to extract PrP(Sc) from dilute solutions, thus providing a simple approach to concentration of PrP(Sc). The fact that nickel and molybdenum in steel alloys increased the binding affinity, and bound infectivity, of PrP(Sc) is an important issue to consider in the manufacture of surgical instruments and abattoir tools.
The relationship between engagement in pleasant activities as rated by the patient and as rated by the caregiver from the patient's perspective was examined using structural equation modeling in a sample of patients (N = 277) diagnosed with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease. The two activity participation ratings were only moderately related to one another. Furthermore, depression was the only significant predictor of the patient-rated activity participation, whereas severity of depression, degree of personality change, level of dependence, and cognition were all significant predictors of caregiver-rated activity participation. These findings suggest that caregivers consider a wider range of variables when evaluating the patient's engagement in activities than does the patient. Predictors of patient-rated activity participation did not differ as a function of age or cognition.
Micro RNAs (miRNAs) represent a family of small ribonucleic acids (RNAs) that are post-transcriptional regulators of messenger RNA (mRNA) complexity. Brain cells maintain distinct populations of miRNAs that support physiologically normal patterns of expression, however, certain miRNA abundances are significantly altered in neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease (AD). Here we provide evidence in human neural (HN) cells of an aluminum-sulfate- and reactive oxygen species (ROS)-mediated up-regulation of an NF-kappaB-sensitive miRNA-146a that down-regulates the expression of complement factor H (CFH), an important repressor of inflammation. This NF-kappaB-miRNA-146a-CFH signaling circuit is known to be similarly affected by Abeta42 peptides and in AD brain. These aluminum-sulfate-inducible events were not observed in parallel experiments using iron-, magnesium-, or zinc-sulfate-stressed HN cells. An NF-kappaB-containing miRNA-146a-promoter-luciferase reporter construct transfected into HN cells showed significant up-regulation of miRNA-146a after aluminum-sulfate treatment that corresponded to decreased CFH gene expression. These data suggest that (1) as in AD brain, NF-kappaB-sensitive, miRNA-146a-mediated, modulation of CFH gene expression may contribute to inflammatory responses in aluminum-stressed HN cells, and (2) underscores the potential of nanomolar aluminum to drive genotoxic mechanisms characteristic of neurodegenerative disease processes.
Survivors of severe traumatic brain injury (TBI) often demonstrate impairments in the cognitive control functions of detecting response conflict and signaling for recruitment of cognitive resources to appropriately adjust performance. These cognitive control functions can be measured using conflict adaptation effects, wherein manifestations of conflict detection and processing are reduced following high- relative to low-conflict trials. Event-related potentials (ERPs) were collected while 18 survivors of severe traumatic brain injury (TBI) and 21 demographically matched control participants performed a modified Stroop task. The incongruent-minus-congruent trial Stroop effect for trials preceded by incongruent (high conflict) and congruent (low conflict) trials were compared for behavioral (response time [RT] and error rate) and ERP reflections of cognitive control. Behavioral data showed a reduction in the Stroop effect for both control and TBI participant RTs when preceded by incongruent trials. The magnitude of these effects did not differentiate control and TBI participants. ERP data revealed a centro-parietal conflict slow potential (conflict SP) that differentiated incongruent from congruent trials. Planned comparisons showed a decreased amplitude conflict SP when ERPs were preceded by incongruent trials in control, but not TBI participants. Results indicate subtle TBI-related impairments in conflict resolution mechanisms in the context of intact RT-related conflict adaptation.
Research has indicated that there may be age-related and Alzheimer's disease (AD) -related reductions in regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in the brain. This study explored differences in age- and AD-related rCBF patterns in the context of cognitive aging using a multivariate approach to the analysis of H215O PET data. First, an rCBF covariance pattern that distinguishes between a group of younger and older adults was identified. Individual subject's expression of the identified age-related pattern was significantly correlated with their performance on tests of memory, even after controlling for the effect of age. This finding suggests that subject expression of the covariance pattern explained additional variation in performance on the memory tasks. The age-related covariance pattern was then compared to an AD-related covariance pattern. There was little evidence that the two covariance patterns were similar, and the age-related pattern did a poor job of differentiating between cognitively-healthy older adults and those with probable AD. The findings from this study are consistent with the multifactorial nature of cognitive aging.
Emotional processes are enhanced in aging, such that aging is characterized by superior emotional regulation. This article provides a brief review of the neural bases supporting this effect with a focus on functional neuroimaging studies of perception and episodic memory. The most consistent finding across these studies is that older adults show an alteration in the recruitment of the amygdala, but greater recruitment of the frontal cortex. These Fronto-amygdalar Age-related Differences in Emotion (FADE) may reflect emotional regulation strategies mediated by frontal brain regions that dampen emotion-related activations in the amygdala.


Trauma-related attentional bias is suggested to play a role in maintaining posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Although being burn injured is a traumatic event for many patients, there are no prospective studies investigating attentional bias. The aims were to assess burn-specific attentional bias 1 year after burn, and its associations with risk factors for PTSD and symptoms of PTSD. A total of 38 adult patients with burns were assessed with a structured clinical interview and a Swedish version of the Impact of Event Scale-Revised up to 1-year after burn. The Emotional Stroop Task was used to assess attentional bias 1 year after burn. In total 29 participants displayed burn-specific attentional bias. This group had more previous life events, perceived life threat, larger burns, and higher PTSD symptom severity. In conclusion, the majority of the patients had burn-specific attentional bias 1 year after burn and this was related to symptoms of PTSD.


Although the risk for most cancers appears to be relatively low in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD), skin cancers and melanomas occur more frequently in the PD population as compared to controls. This article summarizes the findings of cohort studies on skin cancer in Parkinson's disease. Given that melanoma may precede use of L-dopa, the increased risk of melanoma for PD patients cannot be attributed to L-dopa. On the basis of these observations it may be reasonable to recommend that all patients with PD, whether treated with L-dopa or not, should undergo regular dermatological screening for neoplastic or pre-neoplastic skin lesions, especially melanoma.
In Parkinson's disease, impaired function of mitochondrial complex I is involved in selective degeneration of dopamine neurons in the substantia nigra. Mitochondria are now considered to play an active role in neuronal death process through activating &quot;intrinsic&quot; apoptotic signaling, in addition to production of reactive oxygen species. This paper presents our recent findings on new functions of mitochondria in regulation of their redox state and function through reversible &quot;S-glutathionylation&quot;, a mixed disulfide binding between sulfhydryl groups of GSH and protein cysteine in complex I subunits. Type A monoamine oxidase (MAO-A) localized at the mitochondrial outer membrane is a binding site of neurotoxins leading to apoptosis. Rasagiline and (-)deprenyl, type B MAO inhibitors of propagylamine-derivatives, bind to MAO-A to protect neuronal cells against apoptosis through induction of pro-survival Bcl-2 and neurotrophic factors. This review discusses the new role of mitochondria in regulation of neuronal cell death of neurodegenerative disorders.
Transactive response DNA-binding protein 43 (TDP-43) forms abnormal ubiquitinated and phosphorylated inclusions in brain tissues from patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and frontotemporal lobar degeneration. TDP-43 is a DNA/RNA-binding protein involved in RNA processing, such as transcription, pre-mRNA splicing, mRNA stabilization and transport to dendrites. We found that in response to oxidative stress and to environmental insults of different types TDP-43 is capable to assemble into stress granules (SGs), ribonucleoprotein complexes where protein synthesis is temporarily arrested. We demonstrated that a specific aminoacidic interval (216-315) in the C-terminal region and the RNA-recognition motif 1 domain are both implicated in TDP-43 participation in SGs as their deletion prevented the recruitment of TDP-43 into SGs. Our data show that TDP-43 is a specific component of SGs and not of processing bodies, although we proved that TDP-43 is not necessary for SG formation, and its gene silencing does not impair cell survival during stress. The analysis of spinal cord tissue from ALS patients showed that SG markers are not entrapped in TDP-43 pathological inclusions. Although SGs were not evident in ALS brains, we speculate that an altered control of mRNA translation in stressful conditions may trigger motor neuron degeneration at early stages of the disease.
Peroxynitrite is a potent oxidant that contributes to tissue damage in neurodegenerative disorders. We have previously reported that treatment of rat brain synaptosomes with peroxynitrite induced post-translational modifications in pre- and post-synaptic proteins and stimulated soluble N-ethylmaleimide sensitive fusion proteins attachment receptor complex formation and endogenous glutamate release. In this study we show that, following peroxynitrite treatment, the synaptic vesicle protein synaptophysin (SYP) can be both phosphorylated and nitrated in a dose-dependent manner. We found that tyrosine-phosphorylated, but not tyrosine-nitrated, SYP bound to the src tyrosine kinase and enhanced its catalytic activity. These effects were mediated by direct and specific binding of the SYP cytoplasmic C-terminal tail with the src homology 2 domain. Using mass spectrometry analysis, we mapped the SYP C-terminal tail tyrosine residues modified by peroxynitrite and found one nitration site at Tyr250 and two phosphorylation sites at Tyr263 and Tyr273. We suggest that peroxynitrite-mediated modifications of SYP may be relevant in modulating src signalling of synaptic terminal in pathophysiological conditions.
NMDA receptors play dual and opposing roles in neuronal survival by mediating the activity-dependent neurotrophic signaling and excitotoxic cell death via synaptic and extrasynaptic receptors, respectively. In this study, we demonstrate that the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR), also known as the dioxin receptor, is involved in the expression and the opposing activities of NMDA receptors. In primary cultured cortical neurons, we found that NMDA excitotoxicity is significantly enhanced by an AhR agonist 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin, and AhR knockdown with small interfering RNA significantly reduces NMDA excitotoxicity. AhR knockdown also significantly reduces NMDA-increases intracellular calcium concentration, NMDA receptor expression and surface presentation, and moderately decreases the NMDA receptor-mediated spontaneous as well as miniature excitatory post-synaptic currents. However, AhR knockdown significantly enhances the bath NMDA application- but not synaptic NMDA receptor-induced brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) gene expression, and activating AhR reduces the bath NMDA-induced BDNF expression. Furthermore, AhR knockdown reveals the calcium dependency of NMDA-induced BDNF expression and the binding activity of cAMP-responsive element binding protein (CREB) and its calcium-dependent coactivator CREB binding protein (CBP) to the BDNF promoter upon NMDA treatment. Together, our results suggest that AhR opposingly regulates NMDA receptor-mediated excitotoxicity and neurotrophism possibly by differentially regulating the expression of synaptic and extrasynaptic NMDA receptors.
Snake pre-synaptic phospholipase A(2) neurotoxins paralyse the neuromuscular junction by releasing phospholipid hydrolysis products that alter curvature and permeability of the pre-synaptic membrane. Here, we report results deriving from the first chemical analysis of the action of these neurotoxic phospholipases in neurons, made possible by the use of high sensitivity mass spectrometry. The time-course of the phospholipase A(2) activity (PLA(2)) hydrolysis of notexin, beta-bungarotoxin, taipoxin and textilotoxin acting in cultured neurons was determined. At variance from their enzymatic activities in vitro, these neurotoxins display comparable kinetics of lysophospholipid release in neurons, reconciling the large discrepancy between their in vivo toxicities and their in vitro enzymatic activities. The ratios of the lyso derivatives of phosphatidyl choline, ethanolamine and serine obtained here together with the known distribution of these phospholipids among cell membranes, suggest that most PLA(2) hydrolysis takes place on the cell surface. Although these toxins were recently shown to enter neurons, their intracellular hydrolytic action and the activation of intracellular PLA(2)s appear to contribute little, if any, to the phospholipid hydrolysis measured here.
Novel measures of coding based on interspike intervals were used to characterise the rhythms of single unit activity in the supraoptic nucleus during the day/night cycle in urethane-anaesthetised rats in vivo. Both continuously firing and phasic cells showed significant (P &lt; 0.001) diurnal rhythms of spike frequency and in the irregularity of firing, as quantified by the log interval entropy (ENT). Comparison of rhythms in log interval ENT showed that the amplitude of the rhythms was greater for the continuously firing cells than for the phasic cells (P = 0.002). Rhythms persisted after hypertonic stimulation or pinealectomy and both treatments reduced the amplitude significantly only for the continuously firing cell group. By contrast, the mesor (i.e. mid-point of the rhythm) was reduced only for the phasic cell group. A similar analysis applied to the activity of cells of the suprachiasmatic nucleus showed that, after pinealectomy, there was a significant rhythm in ENT (P &lt; 0.001) but not firing rate; however, the amplitude of the rhythm in ENT was attenuated (P = 0.047). Diurnal changes in the electrical activity of supraoptic cells are consistent with previously reported circadian changes in magnocellular neuropeptide release. Differences between continuous and phasic cell groups in the effects of osmotic stimulation on rhythmic activity indicate that the two cell types differ in their coding of osmolality and zeitgeber time information. The different effects of pinealectomy on the supraoptic and suprachiasmatic nuclei suggest that removal of endogenous melatonin unmasks a difference in circadian coding between the two nuclei.
The frontal assessment battery (FAB) is a bedside cognitive scale designed to measure executive functions. Huntington's disease (HD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by motor, behavioral, and cognitive dysfunction. The aim of this study was to check the validity of the FAB for the evaluation of cognitive impairment in patients with HD. Forty-one patients diagnosed with HD and 53 healthy controls matched by education, sex and age were evaluated with a validated Brazilian version of the UHDRS, the VFT, the SDMT, the SIT, the MMSE, and the FAB. The diagnosis of HD was made by DNA analysis. FAB scores were lower in patients than in the controls (p &lt; 0.001) and had significant correlations with the VFT (r = 0.79; p &lt; 0.05), the SDMT (r = 0.80; p &lt; 0.05), the SIT (r = 0.72; p &lt; 0.05), the MMSE (r = 0.83; p &lt; 0.05), the FCS (r = 0.79; p &lt; 0.05) and the motor section of the UHDRS (r = -0.80; p &lt; 0.05). The FAB differentiated between HD patients in the initial and later stages of the disease. The one-year longitudinal evaluation revealed a global trend toward a worsening in the second score of the FAB. The results demonstrate that the FAB presents good internal consistency and also convergent and discriminative validity; therefore it is a useful scale to assess executive functions and to evaluate cognitive impairment in patients with HD.
MR diffusion/perfusion mismatch may help identify patients for acute stroke treatment, but mixed results from clinical trials suggest that further evaluation of the mismatch concept is required. To work effectively, mismatch should predict prognosis on arrival at hospital. We assessed mismatch duration and associations with functional outcome in acute stroke. We recruited consecutive patients with acute stroke, recorded baseline clinical variables, performed MR diffusion and perfusion imaging and assessed 3-month functional outcome. We assessed practicalities, agreement between mismatch on mean transit time (MTT) or cerebral blood flow (CBF) maps, visually and with lesion volume, and the relationship of each to functional outcome. Of 82 patients starting imaging, 14 (17%) failed perfusion imaging. Overall, 42% had mismatch (56% at &lt;6 h; 41% at 12-24 h; 23% at 24-48 h). Agreement for mismatch by visual versus volume assessment was fair using MTT (kappa 0.59, 95% CI 0.34-0.84) but poor using CBF (kappa 0.24, 95% CI 0.01-0.48). Mismatch by either definition was not associated with functional outcome, even when the analysis was restricted to just those with mismatch. Visual estimation is a reasonable proxy for mismatch volume on MTT but not CBF. Perfusion is more difficult for acute stroke patients than diffusion imaging. Mismatch is present in many patients beyond 12 h after stroke. Mismatch alone does not distinguish patients with good and poor prognosis; both can do well or poorly. Other factors, e.g. reperfusion, may influence outcome more strongly, even in patients without mismatch.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neurodegenerative disorder that causes loss of motor neurons. A pathological hallmark of ALS is the presence of ubiquitinated TAR DNA binding protein (TDP-43) inclusions in the cytoplasm of affected cells. Rare pathogenic mutations within the gene TARDBP that encode TDP-43 were recently reported in ALS but their functional consequences are unknown. To further investigate the pathogenic role of TDP-43 in ALS, a mutation analysis of TARDBP was performed in an Australian cohort of 74 sporadic and 30 familial ALS cases. A novel familial ALS mutation in TDP-43 was identified that substitutes a highly conserved residue (G294V) and is predicted to disrupt the glycine rich domain in the C terminus, a region that plays a role in RNA binding and is required for the exon skipping activity of TDP-43.


We describe novel transactivation response DNA-binding protein of 43 kd (TDP-43)-positive structures in the brains of patients with frontotemporal lobar degeneration with ubiquitin-positive inclusions and familial Lewy body disease. The TDP-43 immunohistochemistry revealed small round structures closely associated with small blood vessels. By immunoelectron microscopy, these TDP-43-positive structures were unmyelinated cell processes located adjacent to and sometimes enclosed by the capillary basal lamina. Some processes protruded from outside of the vascular basal lamina to a position beneath the basal lamina. The processes contained 10- to 17-nm-diameter straight filaments or filaments coated with granular material similar to those described in neurites in frontotemporal lobar degeneration with ubiquitin-positive inclusions and other disorders. In some of the abnormal structures, electron-dense material formed paracrystalline arrays composed of TDP-43. The inclusions were variably positive by immunostaining for the small heat shock protein alphaB-crystallin and less often glial fibrillary acidic protein. Bundles of astrocytic glial fibrils characteristic of reactive astrocytes were often found in proximity, but glial fibrils were negative for TDP-43. These data suggest that these processes are astrocytic end-feet with abnormal TDP-43 fibrillary inclusions. The significance of this novel TDP-43 microvasculopathy on blood-brain barrier integrity warrants further investigation.
It is well established that the sensorimotor state of one limb can influence another limb and therefore bilateral somatosensory inputs make an important contribution to interlimb coordination patterns. However, the relative contribution of interlimb pathways for modifying muscle activation patterns in terms of phasing is less clear. Here we studied adaptation of muscle activity phasing to the relative angular positions of limbs using a split-crank ergometer, where the cranks could be decoupled to allow different spatial angular position relationships. Twenty neurologically healthy individuals performed the specified pedaling tasks at different relative angular positions while surface electromyographic (EMG) signals were recorded bilaterally from eight lower extremity muscles. During each experiment, the relative angular crank positions were altered by increasing or decreasing their difference by randomly ordered increments of 30 degrees over the complete cycle [0 degrees (in phase pedaling); 30, 60, 90, 120, 150, and 180 degrees (standard pedaling); and 210, 240, 270, 300, and 330 degrees out of phase pedaling]. We found that manipulating the relative angular positions of limbs in a pedaling task caused muscle activity phasing changes that were either delayed or advanced, dependent on the relative spatial position of the two cranks and this relationship is well-explained by a sine curve. Further, we observed that the magnitude of phasing changes in biarticular muscles (like rectus femoris) was significantly greater than those of uniarticular muscles (like vastus medialis). These results are important because they provide new evidence that muscle phasing can be systematically influenced by interlimb pathways.
Manipulations of vagal activity are used to treat medical pathologies, but the underlying CNS changes caused by these treatments are not well understood. Furthermore, heart and lung transplant as well as treatments for many gastrointestinal disorders result in section of the vagus nerve (vagotomy). Following unilateral vagotomy under isoflurane anesthesia of Sprague-Dawley rats, electrophysiological properties were recorded with whole cell patch techniques in horizontal brain stem slices. Vagotomy significantly reduced the median amplitude of evoked excitatory postsynaptic currents (evEPSCs; -121; n = 43) in the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS) when compared with controls (-157 pA; n = 66; P &lt; 0.05) but had no significant effect on the passive properties or on the average amplitude or frequency of miniature EPSCs. The degree of synaptic failure exhibited during a 50-Hz train of stimuli was used to define two separate classes of synapses: &quot;low failure&quot; and &quot;high failure&quot; (HF); failure rates &lt;5 and &gt; or =5%, respectively. HF synapses had significantly smaller median evEPSCs (-88 vs. -184 pA; P &lt; 0.05). After vagotomy, the percentage of HF synapses nearly doubled to 56% (n = 24/43) when compared with controls (30%; n = 20/66). Additionally, the overall percentage of failures after the second to fifth stimuli significantly increased by at least twofold. These results suggest that vagotomy causes a decrease in synaptic efficacy by both increasing the overall percentage of synaptic failures and shifting the population of NTS synapses toward more HF transmission. In addition, the alterations due to vagotomy are likely to be presynaptic in nature.
Because eye movements are a fundamental tool for spatial exploration, we hypothesized that the neural bases of these movements in humans should be under right cerebral dominance, as already described for spatial attention. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging in 27 right-handed participants who alternated central fixation with either large or small visually guided saccades (VGS), equally performed in both directions. Hemispheric functional asymmetry was analyzed to identify whether brain regions showing VGS activation elicited hemispheric asymmetries. Hemispheric anatomical asymmetry was also estimated to assess its influence on the VGS functional lateralization. Right asymmetrical activations of a saccadic/attentional system were observed in the lateral frontal eye fields (FEF), the anterior part of the intraparietal sulcus (aIPS), the posterior third of the superior temporal sulcus (STS), the occipitotemporal junction (MT/V5 area), the middle occipital gyrus, and medially along the calcarine fissure (V1). The present rightward functional asymmetries were not related to differences in gray matter (GM) density/sulci positions between right and left hemispheres in the precentral, intraparietal, superior temporal, and extrastriate regions. Only V1 asymmetries were explained for almost 20% of the variance by a difference in the position of the right and left calcarine fissures. Left asymmetrical activations of a saccadic motor system were observed in the medial FEF and in the motor strip eye field along the Rolando sulcus. They were not explained by GM asymmetries. We suggest that the leftward saccadic motor asymmetry is part of a general dominance of the left motor cortex in right-handers, which must include an effect of sighting dominance. Our results demonstrate that, although bilateral by nature, the brain network involved in the execution of VGSs, irrespective of their direction, presented specific right and left asymmetries that were not related to anatomical differences in sulci positions.
Humans often have to modify the timing and/or type of their planned actions on the basis of new sensory information. In the present experiments, participants planned to make a right index finger keypress 3 s after a warning stimulus but on some trials were interrupted by a temporally unpredictable auditory tone prompting the same action (experiment 1) or a different action (experiment 2). In experiment 1, by comparing the reaction time (RT) to tones presented at different stages of the preparatory period to RT in a simple reaction time condition, we determined the cost of switching from an internally generated mode of response production to an externally triggered mode in situations requiring only a change in when an action is made (i.e., when the tone prompts the action at a different time from the intended time of action). Results showed that the cost occurred for interruption tones delivered 200 ms after a warning stimulus and remained relatively stable throughout most of the preparatory period with a reduction in the magnitude of the cost during the last 200 ms prior to the intended time of movement. In experiment 2, which included conditions requiring a change in both when and what action is produced on the tone, results show a larger cost when the switched to action is different from the action being prepared. We discuss our results in the light of neurophysiological experiments on motor preparation and suggest that intending to act is accompanied by a general inhibitory mechanism preventing premature motor output and a specific excitatory process pertaining to the intended movement. Interactions between these two mechanisms could account for our behavioral results.
Although considerable research indicates that reaching movements rely on knowledge of the arm's mechanical properties and environment to anticipate and counter predictable loads, far less research has examined whether this degree of sophistication is present for on-line corrections during reaching. Here we examine the R2/3 response to mechanical perturbations (45-100 ms, also called the long-latency reflex), which is highly flexible and includes the fastest possible contribution from primary motor cortex, a key neural substrate for self-initiated action. Torque perturbations were occasionally and unexpectedly applied to the subject's shoulder and/or elbow in the course of performing reaching movements. Critically, these perturbations would evoke different patterns of feedback corrections from a shoulder extensor muscle if it countered only the local shoulder displacement relative to unperturbed motion or accounted for the mechanical interactions between the shoulder and elbow joints and countered the underlying shoulder torque. Our results show that the earliest response (R1: 20-45 ms) reflected local shoulder displacement, whereas the R2/3 response (45-100 ms) reflected knowledge of multijoint dynamics. Moreover, the same pattern of feedback occurred whether the shoulder muscle helped initiate the movement (during its agonist phase) or helped terminate the movement (during its antagonist phase). These results contribute to the accumulating evidence that highly sophisticated feedback control underlies motor behavior and are consistent with a shared neural substrate, such as primary motor cortex, for feedforward and feedback control.
Functional neuroimaging studies have identified itch-related brain regions. However, no study has investigated the temporal aspect of itch-related brain processing. Here this issue was investigated using electrically evoked itch in ten healthy adults. Itch stimuli were applied to the left wrist and brain activity was measured using magnetoencephalography (MEG) and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). In the MEG experiment, the magnetic responses evoked by the itch stimuli were observed in the contralateral and ipsilateral frontotemporal regions. The dipoles associated with the magnetic responses were mainly located in the contralateral (nine subjects) and ipsilateral (eight subjects) secondary somatosensory cortex (SII)/insula, which were also activated by the itch stimuli in the fMRI experiment. We also observed an itch-related magnetic response in the posterior part of the centroparietal region in six subjects. MEG and fMRI data showed that the magnetic response in this region was mainly associated with itch-related activation of the precuneus. The latency was significantly longer in the ipsilateral than that in the contralateral SII/insula, suggesting the difference to be associated with transmission in the callosal fibers. The timing of activation of the precuneus was between those of the contralateral and ipsilateral SII/insula. Other sources were located in the premotor, primary motor, and anterior cingulate cortices (one subject each). This study is the first to demonstrate part of the time course of itch-related brain processing. Combining methods with high temporal and spatial resolution (e.g., MEG and fMRI) would be useful to investigate the temporal aspect of the brain mechanism of itch.
Lo and colleagues have recently described a recurrent network model of inhibitory control of saccadic eye movements based on neurophysiological observations in the frontal eye field (FEF) and superior colliculus (SC) of rhesus monkeys. This model emphasizes the proactive, inhibition-based, tonic neuronal activity that prevents the eye from moving in a countermanding paradigm. In this review I discuss the model with respect to existing literature that the authors did not mention, suggesting that proactive inhibitory control extends far beyond saccadic control and provides an interesting framework to interpret several attentional and movement disorders in humans.
Activity in the human motion complex (hMT(+)/V5) is related to the perception of motion, be it either real surface motion or an illusion of motion such as apparent motion (AM) or motion aftereffect (MAE). It is a long-lasting debate whether illusory motion-related activations in hMT(+) represent the motion itself or attention to it. We have asked whether hMT(+) responses to MAEs are present when shifts in arousal are suppressed and attention is focused on concurrent motion versus nonmotion features. Significant enhancement of hMT(+) activity was observed during MAEs when attention was focused either on concurrent spatial angle or color features. This observation was confirmed by direct comparison of adapting (MAE inducing) versus nonadapting conditions. In contrast, this effect was diminished when subjects had to report on concomitant speed changes of superimposed AM. The same finding was observed for concomitant orthogonal real motion (RM), suggesting that selective attention to concurrent illusory or real motion was interfering with the saliency of MAE signals in hMT(+). We conclude that MAE-related changes in the global activity of hMT(+) are present provided selective attention is not focused on an interfering feature such as concurrent motion. Accordingly, there is a genuine MAE-related motion signal in hMT(+) that is neither explained by shifts in arousal nor by selective attention.
The molecular mechanisms by which extracellular guidance cues regulate axonal morphology are not fully understood. Recent findings suggest that increased activity of the protein kinase Akt promotes dendritic branching and elongation in hippocampal neurons. We tested whether expression of constitutively active Akt (CA-Akt) in primary sensory neurons would promote axonal branching and whether targeting CA-Akt to lipid rafts, common sites of Akt function, would differentially regulate axonal morphology. Biolistic transduction of sensory neurons induced a rapid expression of CA-Akt, resulting in increased axonal branching, cell hypertrophy, and growth cone expansion. Additionally, we found that targeting of CA-Akt to lipid rafts significantly potentiated growth cone expansion compared with expression of CA-Akt throughout the neuron. Because lipid rafts are concentrated within the growth cone, this finding suggests that signaling of expansion is likely regulated locally. We found that CA-Akt-mediated growth cone expansion, but not axonal branching, was attenuated by coexpression of dominant-negative Rac1. In contrast, blockade of mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) prevented axonal branching and hypertrophy in response to CA-Akt, but not growth cone expansion. These data indicate that Akt activity can regulate growth cone expansion via localized Rac1 signaling and regulate axonal branching and soma size via activation of mTOR.
Rundown is ubiquitously seen in response to repetitive activation of receptor or ion channels as a use-dependent down-regulation through various mechanisms. In contrast to AMPA receptors, gamma-aminobutyric acid type A receptor (GABA(A)R) are believed to display no rapid use-dependent down-regulation. We report here a rapid use-dependent down-regulation of GABA(A)R in primary sensory neurons of rat mesencephalic trigeminal nucleus (MTN), which express synaptic GABA(A)Rs in addition to extrasynaptic ones, unlike other primary sensory neurons. When muscimol was repetitively puff-applied to an MTN neuron every 2 min before, during, and after the muscimol bath application for 5 min, both the GABA(A) responses obtained under both current- and voltage-clamp conditions were almost completely depressed during the bath application. However, the former and latter GABA(A) responses recovered to 26% +/- 7% and 36% +/- 7% of their control amplitudes, respectively, 15 min after washout of the bath-applied muscimol. By contrast, when examined in the presence of chelerythrine, a protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitor, together with a stringent chelation of intracellular Ca(2+), the puff responses were almost completely recovered, whereas those were recovered to 40-60% of the control by either chelerythrine or EGTA alone. A phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibitor (PI3K), wortmannin, which blocks various signal transductions, including vesicular trafficking, significantly enhanced the rundown of the puff responses examined every 2 min. These findings indicate that the rundown of GABA(A) response in MTN neurons is mediated by the use-dependent down-regulation of GABA(A)R, which is reversed by PKC inhibition together with intracellular Ca(2+) chelation, while being facilitated by PI3K inhibition.
The traditional notion that injured neurons are unable to regenerate in the adult mammalian brain and spinal cord has long been a concern. This view has led to methodology designed to overcome this problem, most recently by advancements in tissue engineering. Here, neural precursor cells (NPCs) and the Nogo receptor antibody (NgR-Ab) or poly-L-lysine (PLL) were tested in concert with hyaluronic acid hydrogel scaffolds (HA). In particular, we wished to optimize viability and differentiation of NPCs within HA hydrogel scaffolds. Our results show that HA hydrogels can be modified physically or chemically to improve NPCs attachment on the scaffolding doped with NgR-Ab or PLL. Both the HA hydrogels and their modifications support the viability of NPCs. NPCs were also able to differentiate into neurons and glial cells on HA hydrogels, although this was affected by the different modifications. Immunofluorescence showed that fewer beta-III-tubulin antibody and antineurofilament antibody-positive cells were found on HA-PLL hydrogel compared with HA or HA NgR-Ab hydrogels. This indicates that the PLL-modified HA hydrogels may inhibit differentiation of NPCs, whereas modification by NgR-Ab had no such effect. Finally, the NgR-Ab-modified HA scaffold can be used as not only a NPC delivery system but also a bioactive factor transportation system for CNS repair.
Neurofibrillary tangles and amyloid plaques are considered to be hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD), and the toxic effects of amyloid-beta peptide (A beta) lead to activation of stress-related signaling and neuronal loss. The small heat shock protein Hsp27 is reported to be increased in AD brains and to accumulate in plaques, but whether this represents a potentially protective response to stress or is part of the disease process is not known. We hypothesized that increased expression of Hsp27 in neurons can promote neuronal survival and stabilize the cytoskeleton in the face of A beta exposure. By using neonatal rat cortical neurons, we investigated the potential role of Hsp27 in neuronal cultures in the presence or absence of A beta. We initially tested whether a heat stress (HS) would be sufficient to induce endogenous Hsp27 expression. HS not only did not result in neuronal Hsp27 up-regulation but made the cells more vulnerable to A beta exposure. We then used cDNA transfection to overexpress EGFP-Hsp27 (or the empty vector) in cultures and then assessed neuronal survival and growth. Transfected neurons appeared healthy and had robust neuritic outgrowth. A beta treatment induced significant cell death by 48-72 hr in nontransfected and empty-vector-expressing cultures. In contrast, cultures expressing Hsp27 did not display significant apoptosis. Our results show that Hsp27-expressing neurons were selectively protected against the deleterious effects of A beta treatment; neuronal degeneration was prevented, and A beta-induced alterations in mitochondrial size were attenuated. We also demonstrate that Hsp27 expression can enhance neurite growth in cortical neurons compared with control vector-transfected cells. Overall, our study provides new evidence that Hsp27 can provide a protective influence in primary cortical neurons in the face of toxic concentrations of amyloid.

Richard Lower (1631-1691), an anatomist and physician, was born in St. Tudy, Cornwall, England, and became an avid follower of William Harvey and a pupil to Sir Thomas Willis. Unfortunately, little is written of his contributions to the study of the nervous system despite his successful medical career and his regard as one of the most significant English physiologists of the 17th century. Lower was best known for his remarkable studies within the cardiovascular and respiratory disciplines. However, although not as well documented and thus often overlooked, Lower produced noteworthy advancements within the field of neuroscience such as studying the hindbrain innervation of the heart, CSF formation and circulation, cranial nerve function, and the structural sources of seizures. Some have even attributed the results of Willis' anatomical and physiological studies to Lower rather than to Willis himself. Lower has not received the recognition he is owed as a highly skilled and trained anatomist and physician. In this paper, the neurological contributions, with a brief mention of challenges, delivered during the 17th century by this influential historical physician will be highlighted with an emphasis on the impact each contribution made.

To identify a viable cell source with potential neuroprotective effects, we studied amnion-derived multipotent progenitor (AMP) cells in a rat model of penetrating ballistic-like brain injury (PBBI). AMP cells were labeled with fluorescent dye PKH26 and injected in rats immediately following right hemispheric PBBI or sham PBBI surgery by ipsilateral i.c.v. administration. At 2 weeks post-injury, severe necrosis developed along the PBBI tract and axonal degeneration was prominent along the corpus callosum (cc) and in the ipsilateral thalamus. Injected AMP cells first entered the subventricular zone (SVZ) in both sham and PBBI rats. Further AMP cell migration along the cc only occurred in PBBI animals. No significant difference in injury volume was observed across all treatment groups. In contrast, treatment with AMP cells significantly attenuated axonal degeneration in both the thalamus and the cc. Interestingly, PKH26-labeled AMP cells were detected only in the SVZ and the cc (in parallel with the axonal degeneration), but not in the thalamus. None of the labeled AMP cells appeared to express neural differentiation, as evidenced by the lack of double labeling with nestin, S-100, GFAP, and MAP-2 immunostaining. In conclusion, AMP cell migration was specifically induced by PBBI and requires SVZ homing, yet the neuroprotective effect of intracerebral ventrical treatment using AMP cells was not limited to the area where the cells were present. This suggests that the attenuation of the secondary brain injury following PBBI was likely to be mediated by mechanisms other than cell replacement, possibly through delivery or sustained secretion of neurotrophic factors.
Reorganization of brain function in people with CNS damage has been identified as one of the fundamental mechanisms involved in the recovery of sensorimotor function. Spinal cord injury (SCI) brain mapping studies during motor tasks aim for assessing the reorganization and preservation of brain networks involved in motor control. Revealing the activation of cortical and subcortical brain areas in people with SCI can indicate principal patterns of brain reorganization when the neurotrauma is distal to the brain. This review assessed brain activation after SCI in terms of intensity, volume, and somatotopic localization, as well as preservation of activation during attempted and/or imagined movements. Twenty-five studies meeting the inclusion criteria could be identified in Medline (1980 to January 2008). Relevant characteristics of studies (level of lesion, time after injury, motor task) and mapping techniques varied widely. Changes in brain activation were found in both cortical and subcortical areas of individuals with SCI. In addition, several studies described a shift in the region of brain activation. These patterns appeared to be dynamic and influenced by the level, completeness, and time after injury, as well as extent of clinical recovery. In addition, several aspects of reorganization of brain function following SCI resembled those reported in stroke. This review demonstrates that brain networks involved in different demands of motor control remain responsive even in chronic paralysis. These findings imply that therapeutic strategies aimed at restoring spinal cord function, even in people with chronic SCI, can build on preserved competent brain control.
Here we investigated the incidence of cortical spreading depolarizations (spreading depression and peri-infarct depolarization) after traumatic brain injury (TBI) and their relationship to systemic physiologic values during neurointensive care. Subdural electrode strips were placed on peri-contusional cortex in 32 patients who underwent surgical treatment for TBI. Prospective electrocorticography was performed during neurointensive care with retrospective analysis of hourly nursing chart data. Recordings were 84 hr (median) per patient and 2,503 hr in total. In 17 patients (53%), 280 spreading depolarizations (spreading depressions and peri-infarct depolarizations) were observed. Depolarizations occurred in a bimodal pattern with peak incidence on days 1 and 7. The probability of a depolarization occurring increased significantly as a function of declining mean arterial pressure (MAP; R(2) = 0.78; p &lt; 0.001) and cerebral perfusion pressure (R(2) = 0.85; p &lt; 0.01), and increasing core temperature (R(2) = 0.44; p &lt; 0.05). Depolarization probability was 7% for MAP values of &gt;100 mm Hg but 33% for MAP of &lt; or =70 mm Hg. Temperatures of &lt; or =38.4 degrees C were associated with a 21% depolarization risk, compared to 63% for &gt;38.4 degrees C. Intracranial pressures were higher in patients with depolarizations (18.3 +/- 9.3 vs. 13.5 +/- 6.7 mm Hg; p &lt; 0.001). We conclude that depolarization phenomena are a common cortical pathology in TBI. Their association with lower perfusion levels and higher temperatures suggests that the labile balance of energy supply and demand is an important determinant of their occurrence. Monitoring of depolarizations might serve as a functional measure to guide therapeutic efforts and their blockade may provide an additional line of defense against the effects of secondary insults.
Accumulating data suggest that matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) may be important mediators in the pathophysiology of acute brain injury after trauma or stroke. Here, we test the hypothesis that the endogenous tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase (TIMP-1) is neuroprotective in vitro and in vivo. For in vitro studies, primary cortical neuronal cultures were subjected to hypoxia and reoxygenation. Treatment with recombinant TIMP-1 protein significantly decreased neuronal death. In vivo studies in models of brain trauma and stroke supported these cell culture results. After controlled cortical impact, 24-h MMP-9 levels were significantly reduced in transgenic mice overexpressing TIMP-1 compared to wild-type mice. And at 7 days post-trauma, brain lesion volumes were also significantly decreased by TIMP-1 overexpression as well. In a model of transient 2-h focal cerebral ischemia, MMP-9 levels were lower in TIMP-1 transgenic mice compared with wild-types. Correspondingly, blood-brain barrier leakage was ameliorated by TIMP-1 overexpression, and 24-h infarction volumes were also reduced. Taken together, these cell culture and in vivo data provide initial proof-of-principle that TIMP-1 is neuroprotective against traumatic and ischemic brain injury in mice.
Kersten [Vision Res. 27, 1029 (1987)] reported that absolute efficiency for the detection of static, one-dimensional bandpass noise was high and approximately constant for stimulus bandwidths ranging from 1 to 6 octaves. This result implies that human observers integrated information efficiently across a wide range of spatial frequency. One interpretation of this result--and similar results obtained with auditory stimuli [J. Acoust. Soc. Am. 32, 121 (1960)]--is that human observers, like ideal observers, can detect stimuli using an internal filter that has an adjustable bandwidth. The current experiments replicate Kersten's findings, extend them to the case where observers are uncertain about stimulus bandwidth, and use the classification image technique to estimate the filter used to detect noise stimuli that differ in bandwidth. Our results suggest that observers do not adjust channel bandwidth to match the stimulus and that detection thresholds are consistent with the predictions of a multiple-channel model.
Existing observer models developed for studies with the external noise paradigm are strictly applicable only to target detection or identification/discrimination of orthogonal target(s). We elaborated the perceptual template model (PTM) to account for contrast thresholds in identifying nonorthogonal targets. Full contrast psychometric functions were measured in an orientation identification task with four orientation differences across a wide range of external noise levels. We showed that observer performance can be modeled by the elaborated PTM with two templates that correspond to the two stimulus categories. Sampling efficiencies of the human observers were also estimated. The elaborated PTM provides a theoretical framework for characterizing joint feature and contrast sensitivity of human observers.
A major open problem in systems neuroscience is to understand the relationship between behavior and the detailed spiking properties of neural populations. We assess how faithfully velocity information can be decoded from a population of spiking model retinal neurons whose spatiotemporal receptive fields and ensemble spike train dynamics are closely matched to real data. We describe how to compute the optimal Bayesian estimate of image velocity given the population spike train response and show that, in the case of global translation of an image with known intensity profile, on average the spike train ensemble signals speed with a fractional standard deviation of about 2% across a specific set of stimulus conditions. We further show how to compute the Bayesian velocity estimate in the case where we only have some a priori information about the (naturalistic) spatial correlation structure of the image but do not know the image explicitly. As expected, the performance of the Bayesian decoder is shown to be less accurate with decreasing prior image information. There turns out to be a close mathematical connection between a biologically plausible &quot;motion energy&quot; method for decoding the velocity and the Bayesian decoder in the case that the image is not known. Simulations using the motion energy method and the Bayesian decoder with unknown image reveal that they result in fractional standard deviations of 10% and 6%, respectively, across the same set of stimulus conditions. Estimation performance is rather insensitive to the details of the precise receptive field location, correlated activity between cells, and spike timing.
3-tert-Butyl-7-(5-methylisoxazol-3-yl)-2-(1-methyl-1H-1,2,4-triazol-5-ylmethoxy)-pyrazolo[1,5-d][1,2,4]triazine (MRK-016) is a pyrazolotriazine with an affinity of between 0.8 and 1.5 nM for the benzodiazepine binding site of native rat brain and recombinant human alpha1-, alpha2-, alpha3-, and alpha5-containing GABA(A) receptors. It has inverse agonist efficacy selective for the alpha5 subtype, and this alpha5 inverse agonism is greater than that of the prototypic alpha5-selective compound 3-(5-methylisoxazol-3-yl)-6-[(1-methyl-1,2,3-triazol-4-hdyl)methyloxy]-1,2,4-triazolo[3,4-a]phthalazine (alpha5IA). Consistent with its greater alpha5 inverse agonism, MRK-016 increased long-term potentiation in mouse hippocampal slices to a greater extent than alpha5IA. MRK-016 gave good receptor occupancy after oral dosing in rats, with the dose required to produce 50% occupancy being 0.39 mg/kg and a corresponding rat plasma EC(50) value of 15 ng/ml that was similar to the rhesus monkey plasma EC(50) value of 21 ng/ml obtained using [(11)C]flumazenil positron emission tomography. In normal rats, MRK-016 enhanced cognitive performance in the delayed matching-to-position version of the Morris water maze but was not anxiogenic, and in mice it was not proconvulsant and did not produce kindling. MRK-016 had a short half-life in rat, dog, and rhesus monkey (0.3-0.5 h) but had a much lower rate of turnover in human compared with rat, dog, or rhesus monkey hepatocytes. Accordingly, in human, MRK-016 had a longer half-life than in preclinical species ( approximately 3.5 h). Although it was well tolerated in young males, with a maximal tolerated single dose of 5 mg corresponding to an estimated occupancy in the region of 75%, MRK-016 was poorly tolerated in elderly subjects, even at a dose of 0.5 mg, which, along with its variable human pharmacokinetics, precluded its further development.
3,4-Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) is a substituted phenethylamine more commonly known as the drug of abuse &quot;ecstasy.&quot; The acute and persistent neurochemical effects of MDMA in the mice are distinct from those in other species. MDMA shares biological effects with both amphetamine-type stimulants and mescaline-type hallucinogens, which may be attributable to distinct effects of its two enantiomers, both of which are active in vivo. In this regard, among the substituted phenethylamines, R(-)-enantiomers tend to have hallucinogen-like effects, whereas S(+)-enantiomers tend to have stimulant-like effects. In the present study, mice were trained to discriminate S(+)- or R(-)-MDMA from vehicle. Drug substitution tests were then undertaken with the structurally similar phenethylamine dopamine/norepinephrine releaser S(+)-amphetamine, the structurally dissimilar tropane nonselective monoamine reuptake inhibitor cocaine, the structurally similar phenethylamine 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)(2A) agonist 2,5-dimethoxy-4-(n)-propylthiophenethylamine (2C-T-7), and the structurally dissimilar mixed action tryptamine 5-HT(2A) agonist/monoamine reuptake inhibitor N,N-dipropyltryptamine (DPT). S(+)-amphetamine fully substituted in the S(+)-MDMA-treated animals but did not substitute for the R(-)-MDMA cue. 2C-T-7 fully substituted in the R(-)-MDMA-trained animals but did not substitute for the S(+)-MDMA cue. Cocaine and DPT substituted for both training drugs, but whereas cocaine was more potent in S(+)-MDMA-trained mice, DPT was more potent in R(-)-MDMA-trained mice. These data suggest that qualitative differences in the discriminative stimulus effects of each stereoisomer of MDMA exist in mice and further our understanding of the complex nature of the interoceptive effects of MDMA.
N-Methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists that are highly selective for specific NMDA receptor 2 (NR2) subunits have several potential therapeutic applications; however, to date, only NR2B-selective antagonists have been described. Whereas most glutamate binding site antagonists display a common pattern of NR2 selectivity, NR2A &gt; NR2B &gt; NR2C &gt; NR2D (high to low affinity), (2S*,3R*)-1-(phenanthrene-2-carbonyl)piperazine-2,3-dicarboxylic acid (PPDA) has a low selectivity for NR2C- and NR2D-containing NMDA receptors. A series of PPDA derivatives were synthesized and then tested at recombinant NMDA receptors expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes. In addition, the optical isomers of PPDA were resolved; the (-) isomer displayed a 50- to 80-fold greater potency than the (+) isomer. Replacement of the phenanthrene moiety of PPDA with naphthalene or anthracene did not improve selectivity. However, phenylazobenzoyl (UBP125) or phenylethynylbenzoyl (UBP128) substitution significantly improved selectivity for NR2B-, NR2C-, and NR2D-containing receptors over NR2A-containing NMDA receptors. Phenanthrene attachment at the 3 position [(2R*,3S*)-1-(phenanthrene-3-carbonyl)piperazine-2,3-dicarboxylic acid (UBP141); (2R*,3S*)-1-(9-bromophenanthrene-3-carbonyl)piperazine-2,3-dicarboxylic acid (UBP145); (2R*,3S*)-1-(9-chlorophenanthrene-3-carbonyl)piperazine-2,3-dicarboxylic acid (UBP160); and (2R*,3S*)-1-(9-iodophenanthrene-3-carbonyl)piperazine-2,3-dicarboxylic acid (UBP161)] displayed improved NR2D selectivity. UBP141 and its 9-brominated homolog (UBP145) both display a 7- to 10- fold selectivity for NR2D-containing receptors over NR2B- or NR2A-containing receptors. Schild analysis indicates that these two compounds are competitive glutamate binding site antagonists. Consistent with a physiological role for NR2D-containing receptors in the hippocampus, UBP141 (5 muM) displayed greater selectivity than PPDA for inhibiting the slow-decaying component of the NMDA receptor-mediated CA3-CA1 synaptic response in rat hippocampal slices. UBP125, UBP128, UBP141, and UBP145 may be useful tools for determining the function of NMDA receptor subtypes.
The presenilin containing gamma-secretase complex is responsible for the regulated intramembraneous proteolysis of the amyloid precursor protein (APP), the Notch receptor, and a multitude of other substrates. gamma-Secretase catalyzes the final step in the generation of Abeta(40) and Abeta(42) peptides from APP. Amyloid beta-peptides (Abeta peptides) aggregate to form neurotoxic oligomers, senile plaques, and congophilic angiopathy, some of the cardinal pathologies associated with Alzheimer's disease. Although inhibition of this protease acting on APP may result in potentially therapeutic reductions of neurotoxic Abeta peptides, nonselective inhibition of the enzyme may cause severe adverse events as a result of impaired Notch receptor processing. Here, we report the preclinical pharmacological profile of GSI-953 (begacestat), a novel thiophene sulfonamide gamma-secretase inhibitor (GSI) that selectively inhibits cleavage of APP over Notch. This GSI inhibits Abeta production with low nanomolar potency in cellular and cell-free assays of gamma-secretase function, and displaces a tritiated analog of GSI-953 from enriched gamma-secretase enzyme complexes with similar potency. Cellular assays of Notch cleavage reveal that this compound is approximately 16-fold selective for the inhibition of APP cleavage. In the human APP-overexpressing Tg2576 transgenic mouse, treatment with this orally active compound results in a robust reduction in brain, plasma, and cerebral spinal fluid Abeta levels, and a reversal of contextual fear-conditioning deficits that are correlated with Abeta load. In healthy human volunteers, oral administration of a single dose of GSI-953 produces dose-dependent changes in plasma Abeta levels, confirming pharmacodynamic activity of GSI-953 in humans.
Following several recent reports that suggest that dual cAMP and cGMP phosphodiesterase 10A (PDE10A) inhibitors may present a novel mechanism to treat positive symptoms of schizophrenia, we sought to extend the preclinical characterization of two such compounds, papaverine [1-(3,4-dimethoxybenzyl)-6,7-dimethoxyisoquinoline] and MP-10 [2-{[4-(1-methyl-4-pyridin-4-yl-1H-pyrazol-3-yl)phenoxy]methyl}quinoline], in a variety of in vivo and in vitro assays. Both of these compounds were active in a range of antipsychotic models, antagonizing apomorphine-induced climbing in mice, inhibiting conditioned avoidance responding in both rats and mice, and blocking N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist-induced deficits in prepulse inhibition of acoustic startle response in rats, while improving baseline sensory gating in mice, all of which strengthen previously reported observations. These compounds also demonstrated activity in several assays intended to probe negative symptoms and cognitive deficits, two disease domains that are underserved by current treatments, with both compounds showing an ability to increase sociality in BALB/cJ mice in the social approach/social avoidance assay, enhance social odor recognition in mice and, in the case of papaverine, improve novel object recognition in rats. Biochemical characterization of these compounds has shown that PDE10A inhibitors modulate both the dopamine D1-direct and D2-indirect striatal pathways and regulate the phosphorylation status of a panel of glutamate receptor subunits in the striatum. It is striking that PDE10A inhibition increased the phosphorylation of the (+/-)-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-proprionic acid receptor GluR1 subunit at residue serine 845 at the cell surface. Together, our results suggest that PDE10A inhibitors alleviate both dopaminergic and glutamatergic dysfunction thought to underlie schizophrenia, which may contribute to the broad-spectrum efficacy.
Chronic abuse of methamphetamine leads to cognitive dysfunction and high rates of relapse, paralleled by significant changes of brain dopamine and serotonin neurotransmission. Previously, we found that rats with extended access to methamphetamine self-administration displayed enhanced methamphetamine-primed reinstatement of drug-seeking and cognitive deficits relative to limited access animals. The present study investigated whether extended access to methamphetamine self-administration produced abnormalities in dopamine and serotonin systems in rat forebrain. Rats self-administered methamphetamine (0.02-mg/i.v. infusion) during daily 1-h sessions for 7 to 10 days, followed by either short- (1-h) or long-access (6-h) self-administration for 12 to 14 days. Lever responding was extinguished for 2 weeks before either reinstatement testing or rapid decapitation and tissue dissection. Tissue levels of monoamine transporters and markers of methamphetamine-induced toxicity were analyzed in several forebrain areas. Long-access methamphetamine self-administration resulted in escalation of daily drug intake ( approximately 7 mg/kg/day) and enhanced drug-primed reinstatement compared with the short-access group. Furthermore, long-, but not short-access to self-administered methamphetamine resulted in persistent decreases in dopamine transporter (DAT) protein levels in the prefrontal cortex and dorsal striatum. In contrast, only minor alterations in the tissue levels of dopamine or its metabolites were found, and no changes in markers specific for dopamine terminals or glial cell activation were detected. Our findings suggest that persistent methamphetamine seeking is associated with region-selective changes in DAT levels without accompanying monoaminergic neurotoxicity. Greater understanding of the neuroadaptations underlying persistent methamphetamine seeking and cognitive deficits could yield targets suitable for future therapeutic interventions.

Cholinergic innervation of the prefrontal cortex is critically involved in arousal, learning and memory. Dysfunction of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors and their downstream signalling pathways has been identified in mental retardation. To assess the role played by the muscarinic receptors at the hippocampal-frontal cortex synapses, an important relay in information storage, we used a newly developed frontal slice preparation in which hippocampal afferent fibres are preserved. Transient activation of muscarinic receptors by carbachol results in a long-lasting depression of synaptic efficacy at the hippocampal but not cortical pathways or local circuitry. On the basis of a combination of electrophysiological, pharmacological and anatomical results, this input-specific muscarinic modulation can be partially attributed to the M2 subtype of muscarinic receptors, possibly through a combination of pre- and postsynaptic mechanisms.
Choline has been used widely as an agonist for the investigation of gain-of-function mutants of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor. It is useful because it behaves like a partial agonist. The efficacy of choline is difficult to measure because choline blocks the channel at concentrations about four times lower than those that activate it. We have fitted activation mechanisms to single-channel activity elicited from HEK-expressed human recombinant muscle nicotinic receptors by choline and by tetramethylammonium (TMA). Channel block by the agonist was incorporated into the mechanisms that were fitted, and block was found not to be selective for the open state. The results also suggest that channel block is very fast and that the channel can shut almost as fast as normal when the blocker was bound. Single-channel data are compatible with a mechanism in which choline is actually a full agonist, its maximum response being limited only by channel block. However, they are also compatible with a mechanism incorporating a pre-opening conformation change ('flip') in which choline is a genuine partial agonist. The latter explanation is favoured by concentration jump experiments, and by the fact that only this mechanism fits the TMA data. We propose that choline, like TMA, is a partial agonist because it is very ineffective (approximately 600-fold less than acetylcholine) at eliciting the initial, pre-opening conformation change. Once flipping has occurred, all agonists, even choline, open the channel with similar efficiency.
Development of the cortical map is experience dependent, with different critical periods in different cortical layers. Previous work in rodent barrel cortex indicates that sensory deprivation leads to changes in synaptic transmission and plasticity in layer 2/3 and 4. Here, we studied the impact of sensory deprivation on the intrinsic properties of layer 5 pyramidal neurons located in rat barrel cortex using simultaneous somatic and dendritic recording. Sensory deprivation was achieved by clipping all the whiskers on one side of the snout. Loss of sensory input did not change somatic active and resting membrane properties, and did not influence dendritic action potential (AP) backpropagation. In contrast, sensory deprivation led to an increase in the percentage of layer 5 pyramidal neurons showing burst firing. This was associated with a reduction in the threshold for generation of dendritic calcium spikes during high-frequency AP trains. Cell-attached recordings were used to assess changes in the properties and expression of dendritic HCN channels. These experiments indicated that sensory deprivation caused a decrease in HCN channel density in distal regions of the apical dendrite. To assess the contribution of HCN down-regulation on the observed increase in dendritic excitability following sensory deprivation, we investigated the impact of blocking HCN channels. Block of HCN channels removed differences in dendritic calcium electrogenesis between control and deprived neurons. In conclusion, these observations indicate that sensory loss leads to increased dendritic excitability of cortical layer 5 pyramidal neurons. Furthermore, they suggest that increased dendritic calcium electrogenesis following sensory deprivation is mediated in part via down-regulation of dendritic HCN channels.
The inference of interaction structures in multidimensional time series is a major challenge not only in neuroscience but in many fields of research. To gather information about the connectivity in a network from measured data, several parametric as well as non-parametric approaches have been proposed and widely examined. Today a lot of interest is focused on the evolution of the network connectivity in time which might contain information about ongoing tasks in the brain or possible dynamic dysfunctions. Therefore an extension of the current approaches towards time-resolved analysis techniques is desired. We present a parametric approach for time variant analysis, test its performance for simulated data, and apply it to real-world data.
In behavior methods to quantify neuropathic pain, visual observations of limb-withdrawal reflexes to stimuli are not always clear-cut, so this method is partly subjective. Our current data suggest that measurement of electrophysiological EMG magnitudes enables more reliable and objective assessment for quantifying nocifensive behaviors related to neuropathic pain.
We tested the hypothesis that melatonin regulates formation of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) in the brain and thereby protects animals from dopaminergic neurotoxicity and the development of parkinsonism in animals. Employing a ferrous-ascorbate-dopamine (FAD) hydroxyl radical ((*)OH) generating system, in the present study we demonstrate a dose-dependent attenuation of 6-OHDA generation by melatonin in vitro. Intra-median forebrain bundle infusion of FAD caused significant depletion of striatal dopamine (DA), which was blocked by melatonin. Per-oral administration of l-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) for 7 days caused a dose-dependent increase in the formation of 6-OHDA in the mouse striatum, which was increased synergistically by the systemic administration of the parkinsonian neurotoxin, 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) on the 7th day of L-DOPA treatment. Melatonin treatment significantly attenuated both the L-DOPA and MPTP-induced increases in the levels of striatal 6-OHDA, and protected against striatal DA depletion caused by the neurotoxin. These observations suggest a novel mode of melatonin-induced dopaminergic neuroprotection in two models of Parkinson's disease, and suggest the possible therapeutic use of this well-known antioxidant indoleamine neurohormone in parkinsonism.
It was previously shown that pinealectomy causes delayed loss of pyramidal neurons in rat hippocampal layers CA1/3 and that this is reversed by melatonin supplementation. Here, we used immunohistologic detection of doublecortin, a protein expressed in newborn neurons, to determine if melatonin supplementation promotes neurogenesis after pinealectomy. It was found that melatonin supplementation significantly increased the number of doublecortin immunoreactive neurons in the dentate gyrus over the postsurgical intervals of 2, 4, 6, 8, 10 and 17 months. The increase was most evident at 6 months postsurgery and thereafter, and was apparent despite a severe decline in doublecortin-labeled cells over the 17 month postsurgical interval in all groups of rats. Doublecortin immunoreactive cells were not observed in the pyramidal layer itself. These results indicate that melatonin promotes neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus of pinealectomized rats. However, it is equivocal that these newborn neurons migrate to the pyramidal layer and account for the reappearance of neurons at this location in these rats. This study provides further evidence for a role of melatonin in promoting neurogenesis, adding another role to its already remarkably pleiotropic profile. The scope and significance of this newly discovered role remains to be determined.
We examined the effects of mechanical load on transcripts of a set of cell wall related genes that are implicated in the formation of supporting tissues, by applying a 50 mg strip of aluminum foil to the inflorescence stem of Arabidopsis thaliana, a weight roughly half the fresh weight of the stem. Transcript levels of 12 of the 15 genes examined were increased by load application, as were the levels of some transcription factors that regulate secondary wall formation. These findings support the involvement of a load-sensing system in regulation of supporting tissue formation via transcriptional regulation of cell wall related genes.

Several reports have linked, among other aspects, the role of an opioid system in respiratory physiology with underlying mechanisms of panic attacks. The involvement of the opioid system in experimental panic is to be further probed. This study aimed to determine whether opioid blockade would increase panic-related symptomatology on provocation with 35% CO2 inhaled by healthy volunteers. Participants in a double-blind, randomised crossover design orally received either 50 mg of naltrexone or placebo. Most subjects undertook a double inhalation of 35% CO2 one hour after pre-medication, and a separate group did so after five hours. The reactivity to CO2 and the symptoms elicited by naltrexone alone were measured. Among other findings, naltrexone pre-medication alone elicited significant increments in panic-related symptoms. Responses to CO2 were not significantly different between conditions in either group. These preliminary findings suggest that exposure to opioid blockade alone can potentially elicit symptoms that resemble panic, however, without modifying the response to experimental panic provocation with 35% CO2.






Stroke is the third-leading cause of death in the United States, Canada, Europe, and Japan. According to the American Heart Association and the American Stroke Association, 750,000 new strokes occur each year, resulting in 200,000 deaths (or 1 of every 16 deaths) per year in the United States alone. Endovascular therapy for patients with acute ischemic stroke is an area of intense investigation. The American Stroke Association has given a qualified endorsement of intra-arterial (IA) thrombolysis in selected patients. IA thrombolysis has been studied in 2 randomized trials and numerous case series. Although 2 devices have been granted FDA 3 approval with an indication for mechanical stroke thrombectomy, none of these devices has demonstrated efficacy in improving patient outcomes. This report defines what constitutes adequate training to perform neuroendovascular procedures in patients with acute ischemic stroke and identifies the performance standards that should be adopted to assess outcomes. These guidelines have been written and approved by multiple neuroscience societies that historically have been directly involved in the medical, surgical, and endovascular care of patients with acute stroke, including the Neurovascular Coalition and its participating societies: the Society of NeuroInterventional Surgery; American Academy of Neurology; American Association of Neurological Surgeons, Cerebrovascular Section; and Society of Vascular &amp; Interventional Neurology.


Theiler's murine encephalomyelitis virus (TMEV)-induced immune-mediated demyelinating disease in susceptible mouse strains has been extensively investigated as a relevant model for human multiple sclerosis. Previous investigations of antiviral T-cell responses focus on immune responses to viral capsid proteins, while virtually nothing is reported on immune responses to nonstructural proteins. In this study, we have identified noncapsid regions recognized by CD4(+) T cells from TMEV-infected mice using an overlapping peptide library. Interestingly, a greater number of CD4(+) T cells recognizing an epitope (3D(21-36)) of the 3D viral RNA polymerase, in contrast to capsid epitopes, were detected in the CNS of TMEV-infected SJL mice, whereas only a minor population of CD4(+) T cells from infected C57BL/6 mice recognized this region. The effects of preimmunization and tolerization with these epitopes on the development of demyelinating disease indicated that capsid-specific CD4(+) T cells are protective during the early stages of viral infection, whereas 3D(21-36)-specific CD4(+) T cells exacerbate disease development. Therefore, protective versus pathogenic CD4(+) T-cell responses directed to TMEV appear to be epitope dependent, and the differences in CD4(+) T-cell responses to these epitopes between susceptible and resistant mice may play an important role in the resistance or susceptibility to virally induced demyelinating disease.
Polyomaviruses are a growing family of small DNA viruses with a narrow tropism for both the host species and the cell type in which they productively replicate. Species host range may be constrained by requirements for precise molecular interactions between the viral T antigen, host replication proteins, including DNA polymerase, and the viral origin of replication, which are required for viral DNA replication. Cell type specificity involves, at least in part, transcription factors that are necessary for viral gene expression and restricted in their tissue distribution. In the case of the human polyomaviruses, BK virus (BKV) replication occurs in the tubular epithelial cells of the kidney, causing nephropathy in kidney allograft recipients, while JC virus (JCV) replication occurs in the glial cells of the central nervous system, where it causes progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy. Three new human polyomaviruses have recently been discovered: MCV was found in Merkel cell carcinoma samples, while Karolinska Institute Virus and Washington University Virus were isolated from the respiratory tract. We discuss control mechanisms for gene expression in primate polyomaviruses, including simian vacuolating virus 40, BKV, and JCV. These mechanisms include not only modulation of promoter activities by transcription factor binding but also enhancer rearrangements, restriction of DNA methylation, alternate early mRNA splicing, cis-acting elements in the late mRNA leader sequence, and the production of viral microRNA.
Sources of hepatic glycogen synthesis during an oral glucose tolerance test were evaluated in six healthy subjects by enrichment of a 75-g glucose load with 6.67% [U-(13)C]glucose and 3.33% [U-(2)H(7)]glucose and analysis of plasma glucose and hepatic uridine diphosphate-glucose enrichments (sampled as urinary menthol glucuronide) by (2)H and (13)C nuclear magnetic resonance. The direct pathway contribution, as estimated from the dilution of [U-(13)C]glucose between plasma glucose and glucuronide, was unexpectedly low (36 +/- 5%). With [U-(2)H(7)]glucose, direct pathway estimates based on the dilution of position 3 (2)H-enrichment between plasma glucose and glucuronide were significantly higher (51 +/- 6%, P = 0.05). These differences reflect the exchange of the carbon 4, 5, and 6 moiety of fructose-6-phosphate and glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate catalyzed by transaldolase. As further evidence of this exchange, (2)H-enrichments in glucuronide positions 4 and 5 were inferior to those of position 3. From the difference in glucuronide positions 5 and 3 enrichments, the fraction of direct pathway carbons that experienced transaldolase exchange was estimated at 21 +/- 4%. In conclusion, the direct pathway contributes only half of hepatic glycogen synthesis during an oral glucose tolerance test. Glucose tracers labeled in positions 4, 5, or 6 will give significant underestimates of direct pathway activity because of transaldolase exchange.


The articles published in the journal Cell Transplantation - The Regenerative Medicine Journal over the last two years reveal the recent and future cutting-edge research in the fields of regenerative and transplantation medicine. 437 articles were published from 2007 to 2008, a 17% increase compared to the 373 articles in 2006-2007. Neuroscience was still the most common section in both the number of articles and the percentage of all manuscripts published. The increasing interest and rapid advance in bioengineering technology is highlighted by tissue engineering and bioartificial organs being ranked second again. For a similar reason, the methods and new technologies section increased significantly compared to the last period. Articles focusing on the transplantation of stem cell lineages encompassed almost 20% of all articles published. By contrast, the non-stem cell transplantation group which is made up primarily of islet cells, followed by biomaterials and fetal neural tissue, etc. comprised less than 15%. Transplantation of cells pre-treated with medicine or gene transfection to prolong graft survival or promote differentiation into the needed phenotype, was prevalent in the transplantation articles regardless of the kind of cells used. Meanwhile, the majority of non-transplantation-based articles were related to new devices for various purposes, characterization of unknown cells, medicines, cell preparation and/or optimization for transplantation (e.g. isolation and culture), and disease pathology.&lt;br /&gt;
The intensity and valence of 30 emotion terms, 30 events typical of those emotions, and 30 autobiographical memories cued by those emotions were each rated by different groups of 40 undergraduates. A vector model gave a consistently better account of the data than a circumplex model, both overall and in the absence of high-intensity, neutral valence stimuli. The Positive Activation - Negative Activation (PANA) model could be tested at high levels of activation, where it is identical to the vector model. The results replicated when ratings of arousal were used instead of ratings of intensity for the events and autobiographical memories. A reanalysis of word norms gave further support for the vector and PANA models by demonstrating that neutral valence, high-arousal ratings resulted from the averaging of individual positive and negative valence ratings. Thus, compared to a circumplex model, vector and PANA models provided overall better fits.
Non-ionic surfactants have been proposed as dual action anti-viral and spermicidal agents to tackle viral infections, namely HIV. Given very promising in vitro results, nonoxynol-9 has been widely used. However, toxic effects were reported, paradoxically increasing the incidence of transmission of HIV/Sexually Transmitted Diseases in vivo. Thus, there has been a growing interest in identifying and evaluating a new generation of accessible and easy-to-use molecules with simultaneous spermicidal and microbicide action. Different biochemical compounds and mechanisms of action are currently being studied. This article reviews the diverse strategies and mechanisms of action of these novel compounds, as well the necessary systematic studies needed to evaluate their possible toxicity.
Meningiomas, one of the most common human brain tumors, are derived from arachnoidal cells associated with brain meninges, are usually benign, and are frequently associated with neurofibromatosis type 2. Here, we define a typical human meningioma microRNA (miRNA) profile and characterize the effects of one downregulated miRNA, miR-200a, on tumor growth. Elevated levels of miR-200a inhibited meningioma cell growth in culture and in a tumor model in vivo. Upregulation of miR-200a decreased the expression of transcription factors ZEB1 and SIP1, with consequent increased expression of E-cadherin, an adhesion protein associated with cell differentiation. Downregulation of miR-200a in meningiomas and arachnoidal cells resulted in increased expression of beta-catenin and cyclin D1 involved in cell proliferation. miR-200a was found to directly target beta-catenin mRNA, thereby inhibiting its translation and blocking Wnt/beta-catenin signaling, which is frequently involved in cancer. A direct correlation was found between the downregulation of miR-200a and the upregulation of beta-catenin in human meningioma samples. Thus, miR-200a appears to act as a multifunctional tumor suppressor miRNA in meningiomas through effects on the E-cadherin and Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathways. This reveals a previously unrecognized signaling cascade involved in meningioma tumor development and highlights a novel molecular interaction between miR-200a and Wnt signaling, thereby providing insights into novel therapies for meningiomas.
Rett syndrome (RTT) is an autism spectrum disorder that results from mutations in the transcriptional regulator methyl-CpG binding protein 2 (MECP2). In the present work, we demonstrate that MeCP2 deficiency disrupts the establishment of neural connections before synaptogenesis. Using both in vitro and in vivo approaches, we identify dynamic alterations in the expression of class 3 semaphorins that are accompanied by defects in axonal fasciculation, guidance, and targeting with MeCP2 deficiency. Olfactory axons from Mecp2 mutant mice display aberrant repulsion when co-cultured with mutant olfactory bulb explants. This defect is restored when mutant olfactory axons are co-cultured with wild type olfactory bulbs. Thus, a non-cell autonomous mechanism involving Semaphorin 3F function may underlie abnormalities in the establishment of connectivity with Mecp2 mutation. These findings have broad implications for the role of MECP2 in neurodevelopment and RTT, given the critical role of the semaphorins in the formation of neural circuits.
Schizophrenia is widely acknowledged as being a syndrome, consisting of an undefined number of diseases probably with differing pathologies. Although studying a syndrome makes the identification of an underlying pathology more difficult; neuroimaging, neuropsychopharmacological and post-mortem brain studies all implicate muscarinic acetylcholine receptors (CHRM) in the pathology of the disorder. We have established that the CHRM1 is selectively decreased in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex of subjects with schizophrenia. To expand this finding, we wanted to ascertain whether decreased cortical CHRMs might (1) define a subgroup of schizophrenia and/or (2) be related to CHRM1 genotype. We assessed cortical [(3)H]pirenzepine binding and sequenced the CHRM1 in 80 subjects with schizophrenia and 74 age sex-matched control subjects. Kernel density estimation showed that [(3)H]pirenzepine binding in BA9 divided the schizophrenia, but not control, cohort into two distinct populations. One of the schizophrenia cohorts, comprising 26% of all subjects with the disorder, had a 74% reduction in mean cortical [(3)H]pirenzepine binding compared to controls. We suggest that these individuals make up 'muscarinic receptor-deficit schizophrenia' (MRDS). The MRDS could not be separated from other subjects with schizophrenia by CHRM1 sequence, gender, age, suicide, duration of illness or any particular drug treatment. Being able to define a subgroup within schizophrenia using a central biological parameter is a pivotal step towards understanding the biochemistry underlying at least one form of the disorder and may represent a biomarker that can be used in neuroimaging.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) gene transfer is being developed as a treatment for Parkinson's disease (PD). Due to the potential for side effects, external transgene regulation should enhance this strategy's safety profile. Here, we demonstrate dynamic control during long-term expression of GDNF using a recombinant adeno-associated virus (rAAV)-based bicistronic tetracycline (tet)-off construct. Nigrostriatal GDNF overexpression induces body weight alterations in rodents, enabling longitudinal in vivo tracking of GDNF expression after nigral vector delivery. Regulated GDNF expression was highly sensitive to dietary doxycycline (DOX), displaying undetectable striatal GDNF levels at serum DOX levels below those required for antimicrobial activity. However, in the absence of DOX, striatal GDNF levels exceeded levels required for efficacy in PD models. We also demonstrate the absence of a series of known GDNF-associated side effects when using direct intrastriatal vector delivery. Therefore, this single rAAV vector system meets most of the requirements for an experimental reagent for treatment of PD.
We describe three patients suffering from a very active form of relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (MS), who experienced severe disease worsening, associated with a marked increase in brain inflammation, a few days after the first administration of natalizumab. In line with preclinical studies, our observations suggest that natalizumab, when administered during active disease phases, may worsen disease evolution possibly by modifying the regulatory network in the brain. We suggest that relapsing-remitting MS patients having had a recent relapse should be treated with natalizumab only after achieving complete clinical and radiological remission.
Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is a devastating muscle disorder that is characterized by progressive muscle necrosis, fibrosis, and fatty infiltration. To examine the temporospatial pathological changes, a noninvasive evaluation method such as magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is needed. The aim of this study was to precisely assess muscle necrosis and inflammation based on a sequence of T2-weighted imaging (T2WI), gadolinium-enhanced imaging, and selective fat suppression, chemical shift selective T2-weighted imaging (CHESS-T2WI), on a 3.0-Tesla MRI unit in 3-month-old and 7-year-old dogs with canine X-linked muscular dystrophy (CXMD(J)), a suitable animal model for DMD. The results show that CHESS-T2WI was more sensitive and useful from the early to late stages of CXMD(J) than T2WI or contrast enhancement imaging in the evaluation of muscle necrosis, because these latter sequences can be influenced by fatty infiltration or interstitial connective tissues.
Nerve guides seeded with Schwann cells (SCs) promote axonal regeneration in peripheral nerve lesions. We examined the applicability of bioluminescent imaging (BLI) for monitoring the fate of SCs in nerve guides after implantation. Rat SCs were transfected with the firefly luciferase (Fluc) gene and subsequently seeded in nerve guides, which were implanted subcutaneously in rats. In vivo bioluminescence of transfected SCs (Fluc-SCs) was assessed with a BLI system. Scans were validated ex vivo using immunocytochemistry and electron microscopy. We found that BLI enables longitudinal in vivo monitoring of Fluc-SCs, given that proper access of luciferin to the cells is assured.
Neurons in vitro are different from any other cell types in their sensitivity and complexity. Growing, differentiating, transfecting, and recording from single neurons and neuronal networks all present particular challenges. Some of the difficulties arise from the small scale of cellular structures, and have already seen substantial advances due to nanotechnology, particularly highly fluorescent semiconductor nanoparticles. Other issues have less obvious solutions, but the complex and often surprising way that novel nanomaterials react with cells have suggested some revolutionary approaches. We review some of the ways nanomaterials and nanostructures can contribute to in vitro neuroscience, with a particular focus on emphasizing techniques that are widely accessible to many laboratories and on providing references to protocols and methods. The issues of nanotoxicology of greatest interest to cultured neurons are discussed. Finally, we present some future trends and challenges in nano-neuroscience.
Lipids and several specialized proteins are thought to be able to sense the curvature of membranes (MC). Here we used quantitative fluorescence microscopy to measure curvature-selective binding of amphipathic motifs on single liposomes 50-700 nm in diameter. Our results revealed that sensing is predominantly mediated by a higher density of binding sites on curved membranes instead of higher affinity. We proposed a model based on curvature-induced defects in lipid packing that related these findings to lipid sorting and accurately predicted the existence of a new ubiquitous class of curvature sensors: membrane-anchored proteins. The fact that unrelated structural motifs such as alpha-helices and alkyl chains sense MC led us to propose that MC sensing is a generic property of curved membranes rather than a property of the anchoring molecules. We therefore anticipate that MC will promote the redistribution of proteins that are anchored in membranes through other types of hydrophobic moieties.
Mammalian sterile 20-like kinase-3b (Mst3b, encoded by Stk24), regulates axon outgrowth in embryonic cortical neurons in culture, but its role in vivo and in neural repair is unknown. Here we show that Mst3b mediates the axon-promoting effects of trophic factors in mature rat retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) and dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons, and is essential for axon regeneration in vivo. Reducing Mst3b levels using short hairpin RNA prevented RGCs and DRG neurons from regenerating axons in response to growth factors in culture, as did expression of a kinase-dead Mst3b mutant. Conversely, expression of constitutively active Mst3b enabled both types of neurons to extend axons without growth factors. In vivo, RGCs lacking Mst3b failed to regenerate injured axons when stimulated by intraocular inflammation. DRG neurons regenerating axons in vivo showed elevated Mst3b activity, and reducing Mst3b expression attenuated regeneration and p42/44 MAPK activation. Thus, Mst3b regulates axon regeneration in both CNS and PNS neurons.
Flexible links between sensory stimuli and behavioral responses underlie many cognitive processes. One process that contributes to flexible decision-making is categorization. Some categories are innate or overlearned, but, in many cases, category boundaries represent flexible decision criteria that can shift on the fly to adapt to changes in the environment. The ability to shift category boundaries allows decision-making to adapt to changing circumstances. We found that monkeys were able to switch rapidly between two category boundaries when classifying the speed of a moving dot pattern and that neurons in monkey frontal eye field (FEF) changed their activity when the boundary changed. The responses of a subpopulation of FEF neurons that were sensitive to both stimulus and boundary speed were used to classify the stimuli as accurately as the monkeys' performance.
The basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor Olig1 promotes oligodendrocyte maturation and is required for myelin repair. We characterized an Olig1-regulated G protein-coupled receptor, GPR17, whose function is to oppose the action of Olig1. Gpr17 was restricted to oligodendrocyte lineage cells, but was downregulated during the peak period of myelination and in adulthood. Transgenic mice with sustained Gpr17 expression in oligodendrocytes exhibited stereotypic features of myelinating disorders in the CNS. Gpr17 overexpression inhibited oligodendrocyte differentiation and maturation both in vivo and in vitro. Conversely, Gpr17 knockout mice showed early onset of oligodendrocyte myelination. The opposing action of Gpr17 on oligodendrocyte maturation reflects, at least partially, upregulation and nuclear translocation of the potent oligodendrocyte differentiation inhibitors ID2/4. Collectively, these findings suggest that GPR17 orchestrates the transition between immature and myelinating oligodendrocytes via an ID protein-mediated negative regulation and may serve as a potential therapeutic target for CNS myelin repair.
When presented with multiple stimuli, animals generally choose to respond only to one input. The neuronal mechanisms determining such behavioral choices are poorly understood. We found that the medicinal leech had greatly diminished responses to moderate mechanosensory input as it fed. Feeding dominated other responses by suppressing transmitter release from mechanosensory neurons onto all of their neuronal targets. The effects of feeding on synaptic transmission could be mimicked by serotonin. Furthermore, the serotonin antagonist mianserin blocked feeding-induced decreases in synaptic transmission. These results indicate that feeding predominates behaviors by using serotonin at an early stage of sensory processing, namely on presynaptic terminals of mechanosensory neurons.
The nucleus basalis of the basal forebrain is an essential component of the neuromodulatory system controlling the behavioral state of an animal and it is thought to be important in regulating arousal and attention. However, the effect of nucleus basalis activation on sensory processing remains poorly understood. Using polytrode recording in rat visual cortex, we found that nucleus basalis stimulation caused prominent decorrelation between neurons and marked improvement in the reliability of neuronal responses to natural scenes. The decorrelation depended on local activation of cortical muscarinic acetylcholine receptors, whereas the increased reliability involved distributed neural circuits, as evidenced by nucleus basalis-induced changes in thalamic responses. Further analysis showed that the decorrelation and increased reliability improved cortical representation of natural stimuli in a complementary manner. Thus, the basal forebrain neuromodulatory circuit, which is known to be activated during aroused and attentive states, acts through both local and distributed mechanisms to improve sensory coding.
The development of the brain requires the exquisite coordination of progenitor proliferation and differentiation to achieve complex circuit assembly. It has been suggested that glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK-3) acts as an integrating molecule for multiple proliferation and differentiation signals because of its essential role in the RTK, Wnt and Shh signaling pathways. We created conditional mutations that deleted both the alpha and beta forms of GSK-3 in mouse neural progenitors. GSK-3 deletion resulted in massive hyperproliferation of neural progenitors along the entire neuraxis. Generation of both intermediate neural progenitors and postmitotic neurons was markedly suppressed. These effects were associated with the dysregulation of beta-catenin, Sonic Hedgehog, Notch and fibroblast growth factor signaling. Our results indicate that GSK-3 signaling is an essential mediator of homeostatic controls that regulate neural progenitors during mammalian brain development.
When our actions conflict with our prior attitudes, we often change our attitudes to be more consistent with our actions. This phenomenon, known as cognitive dissonance, is considered to be one of the most influential theories in psychology. However, the neural basis of this phenomenon is unknown. Using a Solomon four-group design, we scanned participants with functional MRI while they argued that the uncomfortable scanner environment was nevertheless a pleasant experience. We found that cognitive dissonance engaged the dorsal anterior cingulate cortex and anterior insula; furthermore, we found that the activation of these regions tightly predicted participants' subsequent attitude change. These effects were not observed in a control group. Our findings elucidate the neural representation of cognitive dissonance, and support the role of the anterior cingulate cortex in detecting cognitive conflict and the neural prediction of attitude change.
Neuroscience addresses questions that, if resolved, will reveal aspects of our individuality. Therefore neuroscientific knowledge is not solely constrained within laboratories, but readily captures the attention of the public at large. Ideas, concepts and images in neuroscience widely circulate in culture and are portrayed in literature, film, works of art, the mass media and commercial products, therefore shaping social values and consumer practices. The interaction between art and science offers an opportunity to make the scientific community and the public aware of the social and ethical implications of the scientific advances in neuroscience.
The mammalian heart expresses at least five phosphodiesterases (PDE1-5). Catecholamines produce surges of inotropically relevant cAMP through beta(1)-adrenoceptor stimulation. cAMP is mainly hydrolysed by PDE3 and/or PDE4 thereby blunting contractility. Basal sinoatrial beating rate in mouse, rat, piglet and rabbit sinoatrial cells is reduced by PDE3 and/or PDE4 through hydrolysis of cAMP. However, in rodents, the tachycardia elicited by catecholamines through production of cAMP by beta-adrenoceptor activation is not controlled by PDE3 and PDE4, despite a blunting effect of PDE3 or/and PDE4 on basal sinoatrial beating, but it is unknown whether PDE3 limits catecholamine-evoked tachycardia in the rabbit. Since rabbit sinoatrial cells are an important model for pacemaker research, we investigated whether the positive chronotropic effects of (-)-noradrenaline on spontaneously beating right atria of the rabbit are potentiated by inhibition of PDE3 with cilostamide (300 nM). We also studied the sinoatrial effects of the PDE4 inhibitor rolipram (10 microM) and its influence on the responses to (-)-noradrenaline. For comparison, we investigated the influence of cilostamide and rolipram on the positive inotropic responses to (-)-noradrenaline on rabbit left atria and right ventricular papillary muscles. Cilostamide and concurrent cilostamide + rolipram, but not rolipram alone, increased sinoatrial rate by 15% and 31% of the effect of (-)-isoprenaline (200 microM) but the PDE inhibitors did not significantly change the chronotropic potency of (-)-noradrenaline. In contrast in papillary muscle, the positive inotropic effects of (-)-noradrenaline were potentiated 2.4-, 2.6- and 44-fold by cilostamide, rolipram and concurrent cilostamide + rolipram, respectively. In left atrium, the positive inotropic effects of (-)-noradrenaline were marginally potentiated by cilostamide, as well as potentiated 2.7- and 32-fold by rolipram and by concurrent cilostamide and rolipram respectively. To compare the influence of PDE1-5 on basal sinoatrial rate and (-)-noradrenaline-evoked tachycardia, we investigated on rat right atria the effects of selective inhibitors. The PDE4 inhibitor rolipram and non-selective inhibitor isobutyl-methylxanthine caused tachycardia with -logEC(50)s of 7.2 and 5.0 and E(max) of 18% and 102% of (-)-isoprenaline, respectively. Rolipram did not change the chronotropic potency of (-)-noradrenaline. At high concentrations (10-30 microM), the PDE1, PDE3 and PDE5 inhibitors 8-methoxymethyl-3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine, cilostamide and sildenafil, respectively, caused marginal tachycardia but did not significantly change the chronotropic potency of (-)-noradrenaline. The PDE2-selective inhibitor erythro-9-[2-hydroxy-3-nonyl]adenine caused marginal bradycardia at 30 microM and tended to reduce the chronotropic potency of (-)-noradrenaline. Rabbit PDE3 reduces basal sinoatrial rate. Although PDE4 only marginally reduces rate, under conditions of PDE3 inhibition, it further reduces sinoatrial rate. Both PDE3 and PDE4 control atrial and ventricular positive inotropic effects of (-)-noradrenaline. In contrast, neither PDE3 nor PDE4 limit the sinoatrial tachycardia induced by (-)-noradrenaline. In the rat, only PDE4, but not PDE1, PDE2, PDE3 and PDE5, reduces basal sinoatrial rate. None of the five rat PDEs limits the (-)-noradrenaline-evoked tachycardia. Taken together, these results confirm and expand evidence for our proposal that the cAMP-compartment modulating basal sinoatrial rate, controlled by PDE3 and/or PDE4, is different from the PDE-resistant cAMP compartment involved in beta(1)-adrenoceptor-mediated sinoatrial tachycardia.
In our previous study [Koike, Y., Hirose, H., Sakurai, Y., Iijima T., (2006). Prediction of arm trajectory from a small number of neuron activities in the primary motor cortex. Neuroscience Research, 55, 146-153], we succeeded in reconstructing muscle activities from the offline combination of single neuron activities recorded in a serial manner in the primary motor cortex of a monkey and in reconstructing the joint angles from the reconstructed muscle activities during a movement condition using an artificial neural network. However, the joint angles during a static condition were not reconstructed. The difficulties of reconstruction under both static and movement conditions mainly arise due to muscle properties such as the velocity-tension relationship and the length-tension relationship. In this study, in order to overcome the limitations due to these muscle properties, we divided an artificial neural network into two networks: one for movement control and the other for posture control. We also trained the gating network to switch between the two neural networks. As a result, the gating network switched the modules properly, and the accuracy of the estimated angles improved compared to the case of using only one artificial neural network.
Brain-machine interfaces (BMIs) have the potential to improve the quality of life for individuals with disabilities. We engaged in the development of neural mind-reading techniques for cognitive BMIs to provide a readout of decision processes. We trained 2 monkeys on go/no-go tasks, and monitored the activity of groups of neurons in their mid-brain superior colliculus (SC). We designed a virtual decision function (VDF) reflecting the continuous progress of binary decisions on a single-trial basis, and applied it to the ensemble activity of SC neurons. Post hoc analyses using the VDF predicted the cue location as well as the monkey's motor choice (go or no-go) soon after the presentation of the cue. These results suggest that our neural mind-reading techniques have the potential to provide rapid real-time control of communication support devices.
Recent improvements in cortically-controlled brain-machine interfaces (BMIs) have raised hopes that such technologies may improve the quality of life of severely motor-disabled patients. However, current generation BMIs do not perform up to their potential due to the neglect of the full range of sensory feedback in their strategies for training and control. Here we confirm that neurons in the primary motor cortex (MI) encode sensory information and demonstrate a significant heterogeneity in their responses with respect to the type of sensory modality available to the subject about a reaching task. We further show using mutual information and directional tuning analyses that the presence of multi-sensory feedback (i.e. vision and proprioception) during replay of movements evokes neural responses in MI that are almost indistinguishable from those responses measured during overt movement. Finally, we suggest how these playback-evoked responses may be used to improve BMI performance.
Microglia clear amyloid beta (Abeta) after immunization. The interaction of Abeta with the microglial cell surface also results in cytokine expression. Soluble oligomers and protofibrils of Abeta may be more neurotoxic than Abeta fibrils. We investigated the effects of oligomeric, protofibrillar and fibrillar Abeta40 and Abeta42 peptides on uptake and IL-1alpha expression by primary microglia. Abeta peptide assemblies were extensively characterized. Primary microglial cells were exposed to different Abeta40 and Abeta42 assemblies and IL-1alpha expression was quantified. To study uptake, microglial cells were exposed to different assemblies of Cy3-labeled Abeta. We found that Abeta42 and Abeta40 oligomers and fibrils induced IL-1alpha expression, but protofibrils did not. We also observed that all forms of Abeta42 (oligomer, protofibril and fibril) and Abeta40 fibrils were taken up by the microglial cells. These results demonstrate that microglial cells can take up non-fibrillar Abeta and that oligomeric peptide induces an inflammatory response. The uptake of oligomeric and protofibrillar Abeta by microglia merits further investigation as a potential means for removing these neurotoxic species from the brain.
Functional MRI has demonstrated differences in response to memory performance based on risk for Alzheimer's disease (AD). The current study compared blood oxygen level dependent (BOLD) functional MRI response with arterial spin labeling (ASL) perfusion response during an associative encoding task and resting perfusion signal in different risk groups for AD. Thirteen individuals with a positive family history of AD and at least one copy of the apolipoprotien E epsilon4 (APOE4) gene (high risk) were compared to ten individuals without these risk factors (low risk). In the medial temporal lobes (MTLs) the high risk group had an elevated level of resting perfusion, and demonstrated decreased fractional BOLD and perfusion responses to the encoding task. However, there was no difference in the absolute cerebral blood flow during the task. These data demonstrate that individuals with increased risk for Alzheimer's disease have elevated MTL resting cerebral blood flow, which significantly influences apparent differences in BOLD activations. BOLD activations should be interpreted with caution, and do not necessarily reflect differences in neuronal activation.
Different presynaptic neuromodulation systems have been explored as possible targets to manage neurodegenerative diseases. However, most studies used young adult animals whereas neurodegenerative diseases are prevalent in the elderly. Thus, we now explored by Western blot analysis how the density of different presynaptic markers and receptors changes with aging in rat hippocampal synaptosomes (purified nerve terminals). Compared to synaptosomal membranes from 2-month-old rats, the density of presynaptic proteins (synaptophysin or SNAP-25) decreased at 18-24 months. In parallel, markers of glutamatergic terminals (vGluT1 or vGluT2) and cholinergic terminal markers (vAChT) constantly decreased with aging from 12 to 18 months onwards, whereas the densities of GABAergic (vGAT) only decreased after 24 months. Inhibitory A(1) and CB(1) receptor density tended to decrease with aging, whereas facilitatory mGluR5 and P2Y1 receptor density was roughly constant and facilitatory A(2A) receptor density increased at 18-24 months. Thus aging causes an imbalance of excitatory versus inhibitory nerve terminal markers and causes a predominant decrease of inhibitory rather than facilitatory presynaptic modulation systems.
The activity of a key mitochondrial tricarboxylic acid cycle enzyme, alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase complex (KGDHC), declines in many neurodegenerative diseases. KGDHC consists of three subunits. The dihydrolipoyl succinyl transferase (DLST) component is unique to KGDHC. DLST(+/-) mice showed reduced mRNA and protein levels and decreased brain mitochondrial KGDHC activity. Neurotoxic effects of mitochondrial toxins were exacerbated in DLST(+/-) mice. MPTP produced a significantly greater reduction of striatal dopamine and tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta of DLST(+/-) mice. DLST deficiency enhanced the severity of lipid peroxidation in the substantia nigra after MPTP treatment. Striatal lesions induced by either malonate or 3-nitropropionic acid (3-NP) were significantly larger in DLST(+/-) mice than in wildtype controls. DLST deficiency enhanced the 3-NP inhibition of mitochondria enzymes, and 3-NP induced protein and DNA oxidations. These observations support the hypothesis that reductions in KGDHC may impair the adaptability of the brain and contribute to the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases.
Viral infections of the CNS and their accompanying inflammation can cause long-term neurological effects, including increased risk for seizures. To examine the effects of CNS inflammation, we infused polyinosinic:polycytidylic acid, intracerebroventricularly to mimic a viral CNS infection in 14 day-old rats. This caused fever and an increase in the pro-inflammatory cytokine, interleukin (IL)-1beta in the brain. As young adults, these animals were more susceptible to lithium-pilocarpine and pentylenetetrazol-induced seizures and showed memory deficits in fear conditioning. Whereas there was no alteration in adult hippocampal cytokine levels, we found a marked increase in NMDA (NR2A and C) and AMPA (GluR1) glutamate receptor subunit mRNA expression. The increase in seizure susceptibility, glutamate receptor subunits, and hippocampal IL-1beta levels were suppressed by neonatal systemic minocycline. Thus, a novel model of viral CNS inflammation reveals pathophysiological relationships between brain cytokines, glutamate receptors, behaviour and seizures, which can be attenuated by anti-inflammatory agents like minocycline.
Evidence of dysregulation of the CREB/CRE transcriptional pathway in animal models of Huntington's disease (HD) suggests that strategies designed to augment CRE-mediated transcription may be of therapeutic value. Here, we investigated the consequences of CREB activation and repression in chemical and transgenic mouse models of HD. In the 3-nitropropionic acid (3-NP) model, CREB phospho-activation in the striatum was potently repressed within the neurotoxic &quot;core&quot; region prior to cell death. Conversely, marked expression of phospho-CREB, as well the CREB-regulated cytoprotective gene Bcl-2, was detected in the &quot;penumbral&quot; region. To examine potential contributory roles for the CREB/CRE transcriptional pathway in striatal degeneration, we used both CREB loss- (A-CREB) and gain- (VP16-CREB) of-function transgenic mouse strains. 3-NP-induced striatal lesion size and motor dysfunction were significantly increased in A-CREB mice compared to controls. Conversely, striatal damage and motor deficits were diminished in VP16-CREB mice. Furthermore, transgenic A-CREB significantly accelerated motor impairment in the YAC128 mouse model of HD. Together, these results indicate that CREB functionality is lost during the early stages of striatal cell stress and that the repression of CREB-mediated transcription contributes to the pathogenic process.
The definition of episodic memory includes the concept of mental time travel: the ability to re-experience a previously experienced trajectory through continuous dimensions of space and time, and to recall specific events or stimuli along this trajectory. Lesions of the hippocampus and entorhinal cortex impair human episodic memory function and impair rat performance in tasks that could be solved by retrieval of trajectories. Recent physiological data suggests a novel model for encoding and retrieval of trajectories, and for associating specific stimuli with specific positions along the trajectory. During encoding in the model, external input drives the activity of head direction cells. Entorhinal grid cells integrate the head direction input to update an internal representation of location, and drive hippocampal place cells. Trajectories are encoded by Hebbian modification of excitatory synaptic connections between hippocampal place cells and head direction cells driven by external action. Associations are also formed between hippocampal cells and sensory stimuli. During retrieval, a sensory input cue activates hippocampal cells that drive head direction activity via previously modified synapses. Persistent spiking of head direction cells maintains the direction and speed of the action, updating the activity of entorhinal grid cells that thereby further update place cell activity. Additional cells, termed arc length cells, provide coding of trajectory segments based on the one-dimensional arc length from the context of prior actions or states, overcoming ambiguity where the overlap of trajectory segments causes multiple head directions to be associated with one place. These mechanisms allow retrieval of complex, self-crossing trajectories as continuous curves through space and time.
Adult workers of some social insect species show dramatic behavioral changes as they pass through a sequence of task specializations. In the paper wasp, Polybia aequatorialis, female workers begin adult life within the nest tending brood, progress to maintaining and defending the nest exterior, and ultimately leave the nest to forage. The mushroom body (MB) calyx neuropil increases in volume as workers progress from in-nest to foraging tasks. In other social Hymenoptera (bees and ants), MB Kenyon cell dendrites, axons and synapses change with the transition to foraging, but these neuronal effects had not been studied in wasps. Furthermore, the on-nest worker of Polybia wasps, an intermediate task specialization not identified in bees or ants, provides the opportunity to study pre-foraging worker class transitions. We asked whether Kenyon cell dendritic arborization varies with the task specialization of Polybia workers observed in the field near Monteverde, Costa Rica. Golgi-impregnated arbors in the lip and collar calyces, which receive a predominance of olfactory and visual input, respectively, were quantified using Sholl's concentric circles and a novel application of virtual spherical probes. Arbors of the lip varied in a manner reminiscent of honeybees, with foragers having the largest and in-nest workers having the smallest arbors. In contrast, arbors of the collar were largest in foragers but smallest in on-nest workers. Thus, progression through task specializations in P. aequatorialis involves subregion specific dendritic growth and regression in the MB neuropil. These results may reflect the sensitivity of Kenyon cell dendritic structure to specialization dependent social and sensory experience.
We tested the hypothesis that dopamine contributes significantly to the hydroxyl radical (OH)-induced striatal neurotoxicity caused by 3-nitropropionic acid (3-NP) in a rat model of Huntington's disease. Dopamine (10-100 microM) or 3-NP (10-1000 microM) individually caused a significant increase in the generation of hydroxyl radical (OH) in the mitochondria, which was synergistically enhanced when the lowest dose of the neurotoxin (10 microM) and dopamine (100 microM) were present together. Similarly, systemic administration of l-DOPA (100-250 mg/kg) and a low dose of 3-NP (10 mg/kg) potentiated OH generation in the striatum, and the rats exhibited significant decrease in stride length, a direct indication of neuropathology. The pathology was also evident in striatal sections subjected to NeuN immunohistochemistry. The significant changes in stride length, the production of striatal OH and neuropathological features due to administration of a toxic dose of 3-NP (20 mg/kg) were significantly attenuated by treating the rats with tyrosine hydroxylase inhibitor alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine prior to 3-NP administration. These results strongly implicate a major contributory role of striatal dopamine in increased generation of OH, which leads to striatal neurodegeneration and accompanied behavioral changes, in 3-NP model of Huntington's disease.
This paper describes modifications of the standard methods for obtaining a soluble nuclear fraction from embryonic brain tissue. The main improvements are: (1) the inclusion of a low speed centrifugation step to prevent the appearance of high density contaminants, (2) a sucrose density gradient to remove perinuclear mitochondria and ER membranes and (3) a protein extraction approach which significantly enhances protein yield. To demonstrate the effectiveness of the method, pellets were analyzed by light and electron microscopy and purity of the soluble extracts was immunologically tested. Finally, to illustrate the applicability of this approach, the induction of the transcription factor HIF-1 (hypoxia-inducible factor-1) was assessed by Western blot using soluble nuclear fractions and by immuno-electron microscopy using purified nuclear fractions, both obtained from the optic lobes of chick embryos. In conclusion, the procedure presently described appears to be reliable and convenient for obtaining a pure soluble nuclear fraction from a discrete amount of embryonic brain tissue.
Increased cholinergic stimulation and accelerated gastrointestinal (GI) transit may be produced by direct stimulation of the acetylcholine (ACh) receptor with an appropriate agonist by increased release of ACh from cholinergic nerve terminals or by a decreased removal or breakdown of ACh within cholinergic synapses. The acetylcholinesterase inhibitor, neostigmine, and the 5-HT(4) receptor partial agonist tegaserod, are two agents with known prokinetic activity which work by different mechanisms that result in increased levels of ACh at cholinergic synapses innervating intestinal smooth muscle. Here, we aimed to investigate the potential synergistic effect on colonic transit that may occur with concomitant use of these two agents. Colonic transit was indirectly assessed in rats via measurements of fecal pellet output every 30 min for 2.5 h following administration of neostigmine (0.003-0.1 mg kg(-1), i.p.), tegaserod (0.01-1.0 mg kg(-1), i.p.), or a combination of both compounds. When administered alone, neostigmine or tegaserod caused a dose-dependent increase in fecal pellet output. In combination, low doses of the two agents which did not produce statistically significant effects alone, compared to the vehicle, caused a significant increase in fecal pellet output. Combinations of higher doses of neostigmine and tegaserod did not display synergy. In summary, when combined at low doses, neostigmine and tegaserod produce synergistic effects manifested by a statistically significant increase in the expulsion of fecal pellets. A combination of an anticholinesterase agent with a 5-HT(4) receptor agonist may prove to be a useful therapeutic approach to treat conditions associated with slow GI transit.
When participants in a gambling game are given feedback as to whether they won or lost the previous bet, a series of stereotypical brain electrical responses can be observed in the electroencephalogram (EEG) and the stimulus-locked Event-Related Potential (ERP). These include the Feedback-Related Mediofrontal Negativity (FRN), a posterior P300, and a feedback-induced increase in power at the theta (4 to 8 Hz) band over frontal scalp. Although the generators of the FRN and P300 have been studied previously, little is known about the generator of feedback-induced theta. We employed a gambling game in which participants chose either high-risk/high-reward or low-risk/low-reward bets to investigate these feedback-related responses. The FRN was not modulated by the riskiness of the bet, but both P300 and feedback-induced theta were of greater amplitude following high- relative to low-risk bets. Using a bilateral multi-source Beamformer approach, we localized the induced theta-band responses following wins and losses to partially overlapping regions in the right medial frontal cortex, possibly including the Anterior Cingulate. Using a dipole-fitting approach, we found that the generators of feedback-induced theta are anatomically distinct from those of the FRN and P300.
Pittsburgh compound B or [11C]PIB is an amyloid imaging agent which shows a clear differentiation between subjects with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and controls. However the observed signal difference in other forms of dementia such as dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) is smaller, and mild cognitively impaired (MCI) subjects and some healthy elderly normals may show intermediate levels of [11C]PIB binding. The cerebellum, a commonly used reference region for non-specific tracer uptake in [11C]PIB studies in AD may not be valid in Prion disorders or monogenic forms of AD. The aim of this work was to: 1-compare methods for generating parametric maps of [11C]PIB retention in tissue using a plasma input function in respect of their ability to discriminate between AD subjects and controls and 2-estimate the test-retest reproducibility in AD subjects. 12 AD subjects (5 of which underwent a repeat scan within 6 weeks) and 10 control subjects had 90 minute [11C]PIB dynamic PET scans, and arterial plasma input functions were measured. Parametric maps were generated with graphical analysis of reversible binding (Logan plot), irreversible binding (Patlak plot), and spectral analysis. Between group differentiation was calculated using Student's t-test and comparisons between different methods were made using p values. Reproducibility was assessed by intraclass correlation coefficients (ICC). We found that the 75 min value of the impulse response function showed the best group differentiation and had a higher ICC than volume of distribution maps generated from Logan and spectral analysis. Patlak analysis of [11C]PIB binding was the least reproducible.
The ability to select and integrate relevant information in the presence of competing irrelevant information can be enhanced by advance information to direct attention and guide response selection. Attentional preparation can reduce perceptual and response conflict, yet little is known about the neural source of conflict resolution, whether it is resolved by modulating neural responses for perceptual selection to emphasize task-relevant information or for action selection to inhibit pre-potent responses to interfering information. We manipulated perceptual information that either matched or did not match the relevant color feature of an upcoming Stroop stimulus and recorded hemodynamic brain responses to these events. Longer reaction times to incongruent than congruent color-word Stroop stimuli indicated conflict; however, conflict was even greater when a color cue correctly predicted the Stroop target's color (match) than when it did not (nonmatch). A predominantly anterior network was activated for Stroop-match and a predominantly posterior network was activated for Stroop-nonmatch. Thus, when a stimulus feature did not match the expected feature, a perceptually-driven posterior attention system was engaged, whereas when interfering, automatically-processed semantic information required inhibition of pre-potent responses, an action-driven anterior control system was engaged. These findings show a double dissociation of anterior and posterior cortical systems engaging in different types of control for perceptually-driven and action-driven conflict resolution.
Synonymous and antonymous relationships among words may reflect the organization and/or processing in the mental lexicon and its implementation in the brain. In this study, functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) is employed to compare brain activities during generation of synonyms (SYN) and antonyms (ANT) prompted by the same words. Both SYN and ANT, when compared with reading nonwords (NW), activated a region in the left middle frontal gyrus (BA 46). Neighboring this region, there was a dissociation observed in that the ANT activation extended more anteriorly and laterally to the SYN activation. The activations in the left middle frontal gyrus may be related to mental processes that are shared in the SYN and ANT generations, such as engaging semantically related parts of mental lexicon for the word search, whereas the distinct activations unique for either SYN or ANT generation may reflect the additional component of antonym retrieval, namely, reversing the polarity of semantic relationship in one crucial dimension. These findings suggest that specific components in the semantic processing, such as the polarity reversal for antonym generation and the similarity assessment for synonyms, are separately and systematically laid out in the left-frontal cortex.
Data on clinical teratogenicity are at best derived from carefully conducted observational studies, whereas randomized, controlled trials have no place in this research area. We can only expect level B recommendations and lower. New relevant information has become available during the last 5 years on pregnancy outcomes with 3 of the most frequently used AEDs: carbamazepine, valproate, and lamotrigine. It seems that birth defect rates with arbamazepine monotherapy are lower than previously thought. In some large studies rates are only marginally increased compared with different control populations. More recent data do not suggest adverse effects of carbamazepine on cognitive development. The overall prevalence of malformations in association with lamotrigine exposure seems to be similar to that of carbamazepine. The only available prospective study on cognition does not indicate any adverse effects of lamotrigine. Malformation rates with valproate have consistently been found to be 2 to 3 times higher compared with carbamazepine or lamotrigine. More limited data also suggest adverse effects of high doses of valproate on cognitive development of the exposed child. For newer generation AEDs other than lamotrigine, data are still too limited to determine the risks for birth defects and are nonexisting with respect to possible adverse effects on cognitive development. Doses are important, and evidence is lacking for higher risks with valproate compared with other AEDs if doses are less than 800 to 1000 mg/d. Confounding factors contribute to some of the apparent differences between AEDs in pregnancy outcomes, and more data are needed, particularly concerning cognitive outcomes and specific birth defects. Based on these observations, valproate should not be a first-line AED for women who are considering pregnancy. In this situation this drug is best avoided if other effective but safer AEDs can be found for each individual woman's seizure disorder. Based on pregnancy outcome data, carbamazepine seems comparatively safe and a reasonable first-line choice in localization-related epilepsy. Alternatives are less clear in idiopathic generalized epilepsies. Lamotrigine seems comparatively safe, but its use in pregnancy is complicated by pharmacokinetic changes and risks of breakthrough seizures. The experience with use of levetiracetam and topiramate during pregnancy is still insufficient. Any attempt to change drugs should be completed and evaluated before conception; withdrawals or other major changes should be avoided during pregnancy. These conclusions are largely in line with the recently published report of the Quality Standards Subcommittee and Therapeutics and Technology Subcommittee of the American Academy of Neurology and the American Epilepsy Society.
A 59-year old man developed perioperative stroke following left carotid endarterectomy seconday to thrombosis at the endarterectomy site. Transcranial Doppler ultrasonography revealed very frequent microembolization in the left middle cerebral artery territory. The patient was successfully treated with intravenous abciximab with complete neurological recovery.


The nearly absent ability of the neurons to regenerate or multiply has prompted neuroscientists to search for the mean to replace damaged or dead cells. The failed attempts using adult tissue, initiated nearly a century ago, ultimately brought rays of hope when developing fetal neurons were used for transplantation in 1970s. The initial excitement was tempered by limited success and ethical issues. But these efforts unequivocally established the feasibility of successful neural transplantation provided appropriate tissue was available. The ability to derive embryonic stem cells with their totipotent potential by Thomson in 1998 rekindled the interest in their use for replacement therapy for damaged brain tissue. The present review surveys the current status of this promising field of stem cell research especially in respect to their therapeutic potentials for purposes of neural transplantation. A brief account is provided of the ongoing Indian efforts in this direction.
We report an under recognized magnetic resonance postcontrast and fluid-attenuated inversion recovery sequence finding characteristic of adult Moyamoya disease in a young woman who presented with new onset headache and a history of migraine. The imaging finding of the &quot;ivy sign&quot; is presented, along with a brief discussion of the pathophysiology of this radiologic presentation of adult Moyamoya disease.
Caveolin-3, the myocyte-specific isoform of caveolins, is preferentially expressed in skeletal, cardiac and smooth muscles. Mutations in the CAV3 gene cause clinically heterogeneous neuromuscular disorders, including rippling muscle disease, or cardiopathies. The same mutation may lead to different phenotypes, but cardiac and muscle involvement rarely coexists suggesting that the molecular network acting with caveolin-3 in skeletal muscle and heart may differ. Here we describe an Italian family (a father and his two sons) with clinical and neurophysiological features of rippling muscle disease and heart involvement characterized by atrio-ventricular conduction defects and dilated cardiomyopathy. Muscle biopsy showed loss of caveolin-3 immunosignal. Molecular studies identified the p.A46V mutation in CAV3 previously reported in a German family with autosomal dominant rippling muscle disease and sudden death in few individuals. We suggest that cardiac dysfunction in myopathic patients with CAV3 mutations may be underestimated and recommend a more thorough evaluation for the presence of cardiomyopathy and potentially lethal arrhythmias.
Cells that express the NG2 chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan and platelet-derived growth factor receptor alpha (NG2 glia) are widespread in the adult human cerebral cortex and white matter and represent 10-15% of non-neuronal cells. The morphology and distribution of NG2 glia are similar to, but distinct from, both microglia and astrocytes. They are present as early as 17 weeks gestation and persist throughout life. NG2 glia can be detected in a variety of human central nervous system (CNS) diseases, of which multiple sclerosis is the best studied. NG2 glia show morphological changes in the presence of pathology and can show expression of the Ki-67 proliferation antigen. The antigenic profile and morphology of NG2 glia in human tissues are consistent with an oligodendrocyte progenitor function that has been well established in rodent models. Most antibodies to NG2 do not stain formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissues. Advances in our understanding of NG2 glia in human tissues will require the development of more robust markers for their detection in routinely processed human specimens.
Previous research revealed that the basal ganglia play a critical role in category learning [Ell, S. W., Marchant, N. L., &amp; Ivry, R. B. (2006). Focal putamen lesions impair learning in rule-based, but not information-integration categorization tasks. Neuropsychologia, 44(10), 1737-1751; Maddox, W. T. &amp; Filoteo, J. V. (2007). Modeling visual attention and category learning in amnesiacs, striatal-damaged patients and normal aging. In Advances in Clinical-cognitive science: formal modeling and assessment of processes and symptoms (pp. 113-146). Washington DC: American Psychological Association] but less is known about the specific role of prefrontal cortical (PFC) regions in category learning. The current study examined rule-based (RB) and information-integration (II) category learning in 13 patients with damage primarily to ventral PFC regions. After 600 learning trials with feedback, patients were significantly less accurate than matched controls on both RB and II learning. Model-based analysis identified subgroups of patients whose impaired performance in each task was due to the use of sub-optimal learning strategies. Those patients impaired at either II or RB learning, performed significantly worse on the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test, a test of abstract rule formation and the ability to shift and maintain rules. Lesion analysis pointed to damage in a fairly circumscribed region of ventral medial prefrontal cortex as common to the impaired group of patients and those patients without ventral PFC damage mostly performed normally. These results provide further evidence that the ventromedial prefrontal cortex is critically important for the ability to monitor and integrate feedback in order to select and maintain optimal learning strategies.
We investigated whether unilateral medial temporal lobe (MTL) damage disrupts associative reinstatement, which represents the gain in item memory when the studied associative information is reinstated at retrieval. We were interested to see whether associative reinstatement relies on the same relational binding operations that support other types of associative memory (associative identification and recollection) thought to be subserved by the MTL. In addition, we examined whether such damage affects the different types of associative memory to a greater extent than item memory and item familiarity, and whether a different pattern is seen in patients with language dominant relative to non-dominant temporal lobe resection when the studied material consists of verbal information. To do so, we used a word pair recognition paradigm composed of two tasks: (1) a pair recognition task that provides measures of associative reinstatement and item memory, and (2) an associative identification recognition task that provides a measure of associative identification memory. Estimates of item familiarity and recollection were derived from performance on both tasks using a variant of the process-dissociation procedure. Our results showed that associative reinstatement, like other types of associative memory measures, was impaired in patients with unilateral resection, irrespective of the side of damage. Item familiarity, however, was impaired solely following language dominant resection. The lack of a laterality effect in our relational measures was likely due to using an encoding task that promoted formation of both verbal and visual associations, whereas item-based familiarity could rely exclusively on verbal operations. We propose that associative reinstatement provides a sensitive measure of relational memory that is less dependent on strategic processing and therefore more appropriate for evaluating MTL function in patients.
In the neuropsychological case series approach, tasks are administered that tap different cognitive domains, and differences within rather than across individuals are the basis for theorising; each individual is effectively their own control. This approach is a mainstay of cognitive neuropsychology, and is particularly suited to the study of populations with heterogeneous deficits. However it has very rarely been applied to the study of cognitive differences in autism spectrum disorder (ASD). Here, we investigate whether this approach can yield information beyond that given by the typical group study method, when applied to an ASD population. Twenty-one high-functioning adult ASD participants and 22 IQ, age, and gender-matched control participants were administered a large battery of neuropsychological tests that would represent a typical neuropsychological assessment for neurological patients in the United Kingdom. The data were analysed using both group and single-case study methods. The group analysis revealed a limited number of deficits, principally on tests with a large executive function component, with no impairment in more routine abilities such as basic attending, language and perception. Single-case study analysis proved more fruitful revealing evidence of considerable variation in abilities both between and within ASD participants. Both sub-normal and supra-normal performance were observed, with the most defining feature of the ASD group being this variability. We conclude that the use of group-level analysis alone in the study of cognitive deficits in ASD risks missing cognitive characteristics that may be vitally important both theoretically and clinically, and even may be misleading because of averaging artifact.
To investigate the role of the basal ganglia in integrating voluntary and reflexive behaviour, the current study examined the ability of patients with Parkinson's disease to voluntarily control oculomotor reflexes. We measured the size of the fixation offset effect (the reduction in saccadic reaction time when a fixation point is removed) during a block of pro- and a block of anti-saccades. Healthy controls showed the expected reduction of the FOE during the anti-saccades, which results from efforts to suppress reflexive eye movements (a preparatory set characterized by increased internal control and reduced external control). However, there was no reduction of the FOE in the anti-saccade task in Parkinson's patients, indicating that they are impaired in exerting control over oculomotor reflexes.
The relationship between attention and awareness is complex, because both concepts can be understood in different ways. Here we review our recent series of experiments which have tracked the independent contributions of different types of visual attention and awareness to electrophysiological brain responses, and then we report a new experiment focusing on spatial attention, nonspatial selection of objects, and visual consciousness at the same time. The results indicate that the earliest electrophysiological correlate of consciousness, assumed to correlate with &quot;phenomenal consciousness&quot;, was dependent on spatial attention, suggesting that spatial attention is a prerequisite for the internal representations of space that provide the medium for phenomenal experience. The correlate of phenomenal consciousness emerged independent of nonspatial selection of objects, but its later part was modified by it. By contrast, the correlate of access to later conscious processing stages (&quot;reflective consciousness&quot;) that take the selected contents of phenomenal consciousness as input for conceptual thought and working memory, was dependent on both spatial attention and nonspatial selection. These results imply that one should distinguish between different types of attention and different forms of awareness, when describing the relationship between attention and awareness.
Understanding the interaction between the configural and part-based systems in face recognition is the major aim of this study. Specifically, we established whether configural representation of faces contribute to aspects of face recognition that depend on part-based processes, such as identifying inverted or fractured faces. Using face recognition tasks that require part-based or configural processing, we compared the results of CK--a man who has object agnosia and alexia [Moscovitch, M., Winocur, G., &amp; Behrmann, M. (1997). What is special about face recognition? Nineteen experiments on a person with visual object agnosia and dyslexia but normal face recognition. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 9(5), 555-604] but normal upright face recognition, to those of DC--a man who has prosopagnosia but normal object recognition. CK was normal at recognizing faces if configural processing was sufficient, but poor at recognizing faces that were modified so as to alter their gestalt, and require part-based processing (Moscovitch et al.). DC was impaired at recognizing upright faces and his performance declined in all tasks involving recognition of modified faces, including those that depend on part-based and on configural processing. Nevertheless, DC was normal on tasks involving perception of generic faces and face imagery. These results show that although configural face perception can proceed without part-based processing, the reverse is not the case. Our results suggest that the configural system is always necessary for face recognition, and appears to support what remains of face identification even in prosopagnosic people who have an intact part-based system.
This study investigated time, numerosity and space processing in a patient (CB) with a right hemisphere lesion. We tested whether these magnitude dimensions share a common magnitude system or whether they are processed by dimension-specific magnitude systems. Five experimental tasks were used: Tasks 1-3 assessed time and numerosity independently and time and numerosity jointly. Tasks 4 and 5 investigated space processing independently and space and numbers jointly. Patient CB was impaired at estimating time and at discriminating between temporal intervals, his errors being underestimations. In contrast, his ability to process numbers and space was normal. A unidirectional interaction between numbers and time was found in both the patient and the control subjects. Strikingly, small numbers were perceived as lasting shorter and large numbers as lasting longer. In contrast, number processing was not affected by time, i.e. short durations did not result in perceiving fewer numbers and long durations in perceiving more numbers. Numbers and space also interacted, with small numbers answered faster when presented on the left side of space, and the reverse for large numbers. Our results demonstrate that time processing can be selectively impaired. This suggests that mechanisms specific for time processing may be partially independent from those involved in processing numbers and space. However, the interaction between numbers and time and between numbers and space also suggests that although independent, there maybe some overlap between time, numbers and space. These data suggest a partly shared mechanism between time, numbers and space which may be involved in magnitude processing or may be recruited to perform cognitive operations on magnitude dimensions.
The existence of midline retinal nasotemporal overlap in humans is controversial. Here we used the Poffenberger paradigm and monocular vision to assess the existence of a midline retinal area projecting to both hemispheres and of a possible differential contribution of the two hemiretinae. When brief visual stimuli were presented at 1 degrees eccentricity they were responded to equally quickly with either hand while at 6 degrees the hand on the same side as the stimulated hemifield was consistently faster than the contralateral hand. This pattern of results is consistent with a nasotemporal overlap at 1 degrees and a complete lateralization at 6 degrees . Both hemiretinae contribute to the overlap area which can be considered as responsible for foveal sparing in hemianopic patients.
Conditioned fear memory, once formed through fear conditioning, is modulated by reexposure of individuals to a conditioned stimulus. The reexposure reactivates the fear memory, which induces reconsolidation of the memory first, and then extinction of the fear response. Both attenuating the former and facilitating the latter are effective in reducing the fear response, and these findings are potentially translatable to the enhancement of exposure therapy for complex anxiety disorders. Currently, there is no drug that is established to modulate either reconsolidation or extinction selectively, which are thought to be independent processes. Here, we report that an extinction-facilitating AMPA potentiator, 4-[2-(phenylsulfonylamino)ethylthio]-2,6-difluoro-phenoxyacetamide (PEPA), does not act on the reconsolidation of fear memory formed by contextual fear conditioning in mice. The freezing rates observed in contextually conditioned mice following short reexposure (3 min) to the context were not influenced by intraperitoneal or intra-amygdala administration of PEPA. The same short reexposure to the context enhanced freezing responses in mice that were similarly administered D-cycloserine (DCS), a drug that facilitates both extinction and reconsolidation, and this enhancement of freezing responses in mice intraperitoneally administered DCS was abolished by propranolol, a drug that suppresses reconsolidation. At the same doses used in the short reexposure experiments, PEPA and DCS facilitated extinction of the fear response induced by long reexposure to the context and suppressed reinstatement of the conditioned fear memory. PEPA and DCS did not affect reextinction. These results suggest that PEPA acts on extinction of contextual fear memory without having detectable influences on its reconsolidation.
The widespread use of tobacco and alcohol among adolescents might be related to the ability of nicotine and ethanol to facilitate social interactions. To investigate the neurobehavioral mechanisms underlying the prosocial effects of nicotine and ethanol, we focused on social play behavior, the most characteristic social activity in adolescent rats. Social play behavior is rewarding, and it is modulated through opioid, cannabinoid and dopaminergic neurotransmission, which are also involved in the reinforcing properties of nicotine and ethanol. We found that nicotine and ethanol increased social play, without affecting locomotion or social exploration. Their effects depended on the level of social activity of the partner, and were comparable in familiar and unfamiliar environments. At doses that increased social play, nicotine and ethanol had no anxiolytic effects in the elevated plus-maze. By contrast, the prototypical anxiolytic drug diazepam reduced social play at doses that reduced anxiety. The effects of nicotine on social play were blocked by the opioid receptor antagonist naloxone, the CB(1) cannabinoid receptor antagonist SR141716A, and the dopamine receptor antagonist alpha-flupenthixol. The effects of ethanol were blocked by SR141716A and alpha-flupenthixol, but not by naloxone. Combined administration of subeffective doses of nicotine and ethanol only modestly enhanced social play. These results show that the facilitatory effects of nicotine and ethanol on social play are behaviorally specific and mediated through neurotransmitter systems involved in positive emotions and motivation, through partially dissociable mechanisms. Furthermore, the stimulating effects of nicotine and ethanol on social play behavior are independent of their anxiolytic-like properties.
Benztropine (BZT) analogs, a family of high-affinity dopamine transporter ligands, are molecules that exhibit pharmacological and behavioral characteristics predictive of significant therapeutic potential in cocaine addiction. Here, we examined in mice the effects of 3 alpha-[bis(4'-fluorophenyl)metoxy]-tropane (AHN-1055) on motor activity, conditioned place preference (CPP) and c-Fos expression in the striatum. AHN-1055 produced mild attenuation of spontaneous locomotor activity at a low dose (1 mg/kg) and weak stimulation at a higher dose (10 mg/kg). In parallel, the BZT analog significantly increased c-Fos expression in the dorsolateral caudoputamen at the high dose, whereas producing marginal decreases at low and moderate doses (1, 3 mg/kg) in both dorsal and ventral striatum. Interaction assays showed that cocaine's ability to stimulate locomotor activity was decreased by AHN-1055 treatment, but not by treatment with D-amphetamine. Such reduced ability did not result from an increase in stereotyped behavior. Another dopamine uptake inhibitor, nomifensine, decreased cocaine-induced locomotor activity but evoked by itself intense motor stereotypies. Remarkably, the BZT analog dose-dependently blocked cocaine-induced CPP without producing CPP when given alone, and blocked in conditioned mice cocaine-stimulated early-gene activation in the nucleus accumbens and dorsomedial striatum. These observations provide evidence that AHN-1055 does not behave as a classical psychomotor stimulant and that some of its properties, including attenuation of cocaine-induced striatal c-Fos expression, locomotor stimulation, and CPP, support its candidacy, and that of structurally related molecules, as possible pharmacotherapies in cocaine addiction.
The hippocampus is a region of the mammalian brain that has been extensively studied due to its role in many forms of memory. To better understand hippocampal function, significant attention has focused upon the cellular distribution of ligand-gated ion channels. Despite strong cholinergic innervation from the basal forebrain and a dense expression of nicotinic acetylchoine receptors (nAChRs), the cellular distribution of subunits forming these receptors has received little attention. We used organotypic hippocampal slice cultures (OHSCs) to study native alpha7 subunits, which, unlike other nAChR subunits, form a homomeric receptor. Cell-surface biotinylation, cross-linking of surface proteins, and sub-cellular fractionation all revealed a very limited presence of the subunit at the plasma membrane. In contrast, subunits of other receptors displayed significant surface expression. Notably, subunits in adult hippocampal tissue were distributed in a fashion similar to that observed in OHSCs. To monitor alpha7 subunits contained in functional nAChRs, a colourimetric assay using alpha-bungarotoxin (a specific alpha7 nAChR antagonist) was developed, and revealed a majority of binding at the cell surface. To change alpha7 subunit distribution, OHSCs were treated with compounds known to affect other ionotropic receptors-insulin, genistein, and elevated external K(+); however, neither subunit surface expression nor antagonist binding was affected. Our data reveal that hippocampal neurons possess a large internal population of alpha7 subunits under basal conditions, which persists during stimuli affecting tyrosine phosphorylation or neuronal activity. The nature of the internal pool of alpha7 subunits remains to be determined, but should have important implications for hippocampal activity.
Recently, we reported our web-accessible digital brain atlas of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) at http://marmoset-brain.org:2008. Using digital images obtained during construction of this website, we developed stand-alone software for navigation of electrodes or injection needles for stereotaxic electrophysiological or anatomical experiments in vivo. This software enables us to draw lines on exchangeable section images, measure the length and angle of lines, superimpose a stereotaxic reference grid on the image, and send the image to the system clipboard. The software, Stereo Navi 2.0, is freely available at our brain atlas website.




1-Methyl-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline (1MeTIQ) is an endogenous compound that is constantly present in the brain, and that exhibits neuroprotective activity. Our earlier study has suggested that 1MeTIQ may play a crucial physiological role in the mammalian brain as an endogenous regulator of dopaminergic activity. It is well known that central nervous system stimulants such as: amphetamine, cocaine, phencyclidine, and selective NMDA receptor antagonists, e.g., MK-801 produce neuropsychotoxicity (psychosis, addiction) that is indistinguishable from paranoid type schizophrenia. In rodents, phencyclidine and MK-801 are often used to evoke schizophrenia-like behavioral abnormalities which are inhibited by neuroleptics. The present study was designed to further investigate potential antipsychotic properties of 1MeTIQ by using both behavioral and neurochemical studies in the rat. We investigated the influence of 1MeTIQ (25 and 50 mg/kg ip) on locomotor hyperactivity, disruptions of prepulse inhibition (PPI), and working memory impairment induced by the NMDA receptor antagonist, MK-801 (0.2-0.3 mg/kg ip). In addition in the biochemical study, we analyzed the effect of 1MeTIQ on the changes in dopamine metabolism in different brain structures and in extraneuronal release of dopamine and glutamate in the rat frontal cortex, produced by MK-801. The concentration of dopamine (DA) and its metabolites: 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC), 3-methoxytyramine (3-MT), and homovanillic acid (HVA), as well as the extraneuronal concentration of dopamine and glutamate were established by HPLC. MK-801 (0.25 mg/kg ip) evoked significant disruptions of PPI and working memory impairment, and co-administration of 1MeTIQ at two investigated doses of 25 and 50 mg/kg ip did not antagonize these effects. On the other hand hyperactivity evoked by MK-801 as well as a rise in dopamine metabolism in specific brain structures and glutamate release in the frontal cortex was completely antagonized by pretreatment with 1MeTIQ. If the hyperlocomotion elicited by acutely administered MK-801 is a valid model of at least some aspects of schizophrenia, these results indicate that 1MeTIQ will show efficacy in treating this condition. In conclusions, the present study suggests that 1MeTIQ, an endogenous neuroprotective compound, exhibits also antipsychotic-like efficacy in some animal tests, and may be useful in clinical practice as a psychosis-attenuating drug in schizophrenic patients. However, 1MeTIQ did not attenuate sensorimotor gating deficit or working memory impairment evoked by MK-801 which may be served as a model of negative symptoms of schizophrenia.
Neuropsychopharmacological research in the post genomic (genomic sequence) era has been developing rapidly through the use of novel techniques including DNA chips. We have applied these techniques to investigate the anti-tumor effect of NSAIDs, isolate novel genes specifically expressed in rheumatoid arthritis, and analyze gene expression profiles in mesenchymal stem cells. Recently, we have developed a novel system of quantitative PCR for detection of BDNF mRNA isoforms. By using this system, we identified the exon-specific mode of expression in acute and chronic pain. In addition, we have made gene expression profiles of KO mice of beta2 subunits in acetylcholine receptors.
Neural stem/progenitor cells (NSCs/NPCs) give rise to neurons, astrocytes, and oligodendrocytes. It has become apparent that intracellular epigenetic modification including DNA methylation, in concert with extracellular cues such as cytokine signaling, is deeply involved in specifiying the fate of NSCs/NPCs by defining cell-type specific gene expression. However, it is still unclear how differentiated neural cells retain their specific attributes by repressing cellular properties characteristic of other lineages. In previous work, we have shown that methyl-CpG binding protein transcriptional repressors (MBDs), which were expressed predominantly in neurons in the central nervous system, inhibited astrocyte-specific gene expression by binding to highly methylated regions of their target genes. Here we report that oligodendrocytes, which do not express MBDs, can transdifferentiate into astrocytes both in vitro (cytokine stimulation) and in vive (ischemic injury) through the activation of the JAK/STAT signaling pathway. These findings suggest that differentiation plasticity in neural cells is regulated by cell-intrinsic epigenetic mechanisms in collaboration with ambient cell-extrinsic cues.
Cyclin dependent kinases (cdks) regulate cell cycle progression and transcription. We report here that the transcriptional co-activator PCAF directly interacts with cdk2. This interaction is mainly produced during S and G(2)/M phases of the cell cycle. As a consequence of this association, PCAF inhibits the activity of cyclin/cdk2 complexes. This effect is specific for cdk2 because PCAF does not inhibit either cyclin D3/cdk6 or cyclin B/cdk1 activities. The inhibition is neither competitive with ATP, nor with the substrate histone H1 suggesting that somehow PCAF disturbs cyclin/cdk2 complexes. We also demonstrate that overexpression of PCAF in the cells inhibits cdk2 activity and arrests cell cycle progression at S and G(2)/M. This blockade is dependent on cdk2 because it is rescued by the simultaneous overexpression of this kinase. Moreover, we also observed that PCAF acetylates cdk2 at lysine 33. As this lysine is essential for the interaction with ATP, acetylation of this residue inhibits cdk2 activity. Thus, we report here that PCAF inhibits cyclin/cdk2 activity by two different mechanisms: (i) by somehow affecting cyclin/cdk2 interaction and (ii) by acetylating K33 at the catalytic pocket of cdk2. These findings identify a previously unknown mechanism that regulates cdk2 activity.
Epidemiological data reveal parallel trends of decreasing sleep duration and increases in metabolic disorders such as obesity, diabetes and hypertension. There is growing evidence that these trends are mechanistically related. The seasonal expression of the thrifty genotype provides a conceptual framework to connect circadian and circannual rhythms, sleep and metabolism. Experimental studies have shown sleep deprivation to decrease leptin, increase ghrelin, increase appetite, compromise insulin sensitivity and raise blood pressure. Habitually short sleep durations could lead to insulin resistance by increasing sympathetic nervous system activity, raising evening cortisol levels and decreasing cerebral glucose utilization that over time could compromise beta-cell function and lead to diabetes. Prolonged short sleep durations could lead to hypertension through raised 24-h blood pressure and increased salt retention resulting in structural adaptations and the entrainment of the cardiovascular system to operate at an elevated pressure equilibrium. Cross-sectional and longitudinal epidemiological studies have shown associations between short sleep duration and obesity, diabetes and hypertension. If metabolic changes resulting from sleep restriction function to increase body weight, insulin resistance and blood pressure then interventions designed to increase the amount and improve the quality of sleep could serve as treatments and as primary preventative measures for metabolic disorders.


Adrenomedullin (AM), a member of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) family, has been demonstrated to be a pronociceptive mediator [28]. This study was undertaken to investigate the role of AM in a model of complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA)-induced inflammatory pain. Injection of CFA, but not of saline, in the unilateral hindpaw produced an increase in the expression of AM-like immunoreactivity (AM-IR) in laminae I-II of the spinal cord as well as in small- and medium-sized dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons at 48 h. The content of AM in DRG on the side ipsilateral to CFA injection started to increase at 4 h and remained at high levels at 24 and 48 h. The selective antagonist of AM receptors, AM(22-52), administered intrathecally (i.t.) 24 h after CFA injection inhibited inflammation-associated hyperalgesia in a dose-dependent manner (2, 5 and 10 nmol). Impressively, this anti-hyperalgesic effect lasted for at least 24 h. I.t. administration of AM(22-52) (10 nmol) also reversed CFA-induced increase in AM-IR in the spinal dorsal horn and DRG. Furthermore, blockade of AM receptors abolished CFA-induced changes in the expression and content of CGRP-like immunoreactivity in these regions. Taken together, our results suggest that the upregulation of AM in DRG neurons contributes to the development of inflammatory pain, and this effect is mediated, at least in part, by enhancing the expression and release of CGRP. Blocking AM receptor downstream signaling effects using antagonists has the potential of relieving pain following the induction of inflammation.
Change in facial expression over a fixed time after a noxious stimulus is the key measure used to calculate pain scores in preterm and newborn infants. We hypothesised that the latency of facial motor responses would be longer in the youngest premature infants and that behavioural scoring methods of pain may need to take this into account. One hundred and seventy-two clinically required heel lances were performed in 95 infants from 25 to 44 weeks postmenstrual age (PMA). Sixty-four percentage of the heel lances evoked a change in facial expression. Change in facial expression was observed in infants across the whole age range from 25 weeks PMA and the latency to the facial expression response ranged from 1 to 17s. Latency to facial expression change was dependent on the infants' PMA at the time of the heel lance. Infants below 32 weeks PMA had a significantly longer latency to change in facial expression than older infants (54% increase in infants below 32 weeks; p &lt; 0.001). Sleep state and presence of brain damage (IVH grades 1-4) did not significantly increase the latency (p &gt; 0.05 for each variable). Intravenous morphine at the time of the heel lance significantly increased the latency to facial expression response (p &lt; 0.001) but the analysis shows that latency is highly dependent on PMA independent of morphine administration. These findings highlight developmental changes underlying infant behaviour that are critically important if pain scores are to be correctly interpreted.
Deep-brain stimulation (DBS) of the posterior hypothalamus has been shown to be clinically effective for drug-resistant chronic cluster headache, but the underlying mechanism is still not understood. The hypothalamus as an important centre of homeostasis is connected among others to the trigeminal system via the trigeminohypothalamic tract. We aimed to elucidate whether hypothalamic stimulation affects thermal sensation and pain perception only in the clinically affected region (the first trigeminal branch) or in other regions as well. Thus, we examined three groups: chronic cluster headache patients with unilateral DBS of the posterior hypothalamus (n = 11), chronic cluster headache patients without DBS (n = 15) and healthy controls (n = 29). Perception and pain thresholds for hot and cold stimuli were determined bilaterally in all subjects supraorbitally, at the forearm, and in the lower leg. In DBS patients, thresholds were determined with the stimulator activated and inactivated. Cold pain thresholds at the first trigeminal branch were increased on the stimulated side in the DBS group compared to healthy subjects (p = .015). The DBS group also had higher cold detection thresholds compared to non-implanted cluster headache patients (p &lt; .05). Short-term interruption of stimulation did not induce any changes in DBS patients. Clinically relevant differences were found neither between non-stimulated cluster headache patients and healthy controls nor between the affected and the non-affected sides in the chronic cluster headache patients without DBS. These results support the notion that neurostimulation of the posterior hypothalamus is specific for cluster headache and only affects certain aspects of pain sensation.

The postsurgical medication policy was reviewed for 109 children (age at surgery, 0-16 years) who had epilepsy surgery between 1991 and 2005. Intervals between surgery and both start (n = 84) and completion (n = 68) of withdrawal of antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) were calculated and analyzed in relation to demographic and epilepsy variables and to recurrent seizures. Postoperative seizure freedom was associated with completeness of surgical resection, defined as complete removal of the cortical region exhibiting ictal or interictal abnormalities on intracranial electroencephalography and lesion on magnetic resonance imaging (P = 0.008). Etiology seemed to be related, but numbers were too small for statistical analysis. In 24 children (22%), seizures recurred postoperatively, and in 19 of these 24 children the AEDs were never withdrawn. Two of the five children in whom seizures recurred after medication withdrawal regained seizure freedom. Mean interval from surgery to start of drug withdrawal was 1.71 years (n = 84), and 2.86 years (n = 68) from surgery to complete withdrawal. Seizure recurrence seemed not associated with withdrawal decisions. Timing of seizure relapse was identical in children still on AEDs and in those who stopped. Eight children with early discontinuation (0.6 years from surgery to start of withdrawal and 0.8 years to complete withdrawal) had no seizure recurrence. Long-term continuation of AEDs is probably not indicated in children with complete resection of the epileptogenic zone. The optimal timing needs to be further explored.

Biological, psychological, and social processes interact over a lifetime to influence health and vulnerability to disease. Those interested in studying and understanding how and why racial/ethnic and social disparities emerge need to focus on the intersection of these processes. Recent work exploring molecular epigenetic mechanisms of gene expression (in humans as well and other mammalian systems) has provided evidence demonstrating that the genome is subject to regulation by surrounding contexts (eg, cytoplasmic, cellular, organismic, social). The developing stress axis is exquisitely sensitive to regulation by social forces represented at the level of the epigenome. Old assumptions about an inert genome are simply incorrect. Epigenetic processes may provide the missing link that will allow us to understand how social and political conditions, along with individual subjective experiences, can directly alter gene expression and thereby contribute to observed social inequalities in health. Developmental neurogenomics may provide the direct link between the biological and social/psychological worlds. These biological mechanisms of plasticity (at the level of gene expression and regulation) may play a profound role in how we conceptualize health inequalities by informing our concepts regarding the somatization or embodiment of social inequalities.
Melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH), a neuropeptide secreted by a limited number of neurons within the tuberal hypothalamus, has been drawn in the field of sleep only fairly recently in 2003. Since then, growing experimental evidence indicates that MCH may play a crucial role in the homeostatic regulation of paradoxical sleep (PS). MCH-expressing neurons fire specifically during PS. When injected icv MCH induces a 200% increase in PS quantities in rats and the lack of MCH induces a decrease in sleep quantities in transgenic mice. Here, we review recent studies suggesting a role for MCH in the regulation of the sleep-wake cycle, in particular PS, including insights on (1) the specific activity of MCH neurons during PS; (2) how they might be controlled across the sleep-wake cycle; (3) how they might modulate PS; (4) and finally whether MCH might take part in the expression of some symptoms observed in primary sleep disorders.

Recent evidence indicates that group II metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluR2 and mGluR3) may play a role in the pathology of cocaine addiction. The purpose of the current study was to determine the effects of the mGluR2/3 agonist, LY379268, on cocaine-induced changes in DA neurochemistry in nonhuman primates. Furthermore, the current study aimed to determine if changes in DA neurochemistry would correlate with LY379268-induced changes in the behavioral effects of cocaine. In vivo microdialysis was conducted in conscious squirrel monkeys (n=4) in order to monitor cocaine-induced changes in extracellular DA in the caudate nucleus. Separate groups of subjects were trained on a fixed-interval schedule of stimulus termination (n=4) or a second-order schedule of cocaine self-administration (n=5) to characterize the behavioral-stimulant and reinforcing effects, respectively. LY379268 significantly attenuated cocaine-induced increases in DA. LY379268 also significantly attenuated cocaine-induced behavioral-stimulant effects following a short pretreatment time, but not following a longer pretreatment time. Cocaine self-administration was significantly attenuated but only at an intermediate pretreatment dose of LY379268. Moreover, reinstatement of previously extinguished cocaine self-administration was not significantly attenuated by LY379268. Hence, drug interactions on neurochemistry did not correlate well with behavioral measures.
Early onset of alcohol consumption increases the risk for the development of dependence. Whether adolescent consumption of other highly palatable solutions may also affect alcohol drinking in adulthood is not known. The purpose of this study was to determine the effects of adolescent consumption of four solutions: water, sucrose, sucrose-milk and milk on ethanol drinking in adult rats. Rats had limited access to one of the four solutions from day PND 29 to PND 51 and were subsequently trained to consume ethanol (E) using a sucrose (S) fade-out procedure. Adolescent consumption of sucrose and sucrose-milk solutions increased intake of 2.5% E when it was combined with 10% S but it had no effect on the drinking of 10% E alone. Adolescent consumption of milk and sucrose-milk significantly decreased the intake of 10% E when it was combined with 10% S, and milk significantly reduced 10% E consumption alone and when it was combined with 5% S. Adolescent exposure to the sucrose-milk and sucrose solutions was also found to increase sucrose and sucrose-milk consumption. Our findings suggest adolescent exposure to sucrose increases, whereas, exposure to milk reduces ethanol consumption in adult rats. Our results may provide a new theoretical approach to the early prevention of alcoholism.
Although our lab, as well as several others, has demonstrated a role for corticosterone in cocaine self-administration, there are no studies of the central dynamics of this hormone over the course of a behavioral session when rats are self-administering cocaine or receiving passive injections. The assay of corticosterone in microdialysates collected during such sessions allows for determinations of changes in brain corticosterone during drug-taking behavior. By using the combination of microdialysis in terminal fields for the mesocorticolimbic dopaminergic system and the yoked-triad model, one can distinguish between the direct cocaine-induced activation of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis from the activation of the HPA axis related to drug-taking. In these experiments, we measured corticosterone in microdialysis samples collected from probes aimed at the medial prefrontal cortex, nucleus accumbens and basolateral amygdala in rats self-administering cocaine and receiving identical, passive infusions of cocaine or saline. While corticosterone was increased in all three brain regions in rats receiving cocaine, medial prefrontal cortex corticosterone was increased significantly more in rats receiving non-contingent infusions of the drug compared to rats self-administering cocaine. The results of these experiments demonstrate that control over drug delivery can affect the influence of a hormonal input on the functional characteristics of specific anatomical projections of the central nervous system. These results also provide evidence of the role steroid hormones play in shaping the functional activity of the brain.
The objective of the current study was to determine the origin of the slow spike and wave discharges (SSWD) in the transgenic mouse with postnatal over-expression of the GABA(B) receptor subunit R1a (GABA(B)R1a(tg)), a mutant animal with a characteristic phenotype consisting of atypical absence seizures and cognitive dysfunction. Using simultaneous electrocorticographic (ECoG) recordings from cortical and depth electrodes in freely moving GABA(B)R1a(tg) mice, we showed that the SSWD in this model of atypical absence seizures arise exclusively from midline thalamus (MT), reticular nucleus of the thalamus (nRT), and the CA1 region of the hippocampus. Lesioning of the MT and nRT with ibotenic acid abolished SSWD. Microinjection of the GABA(B) receptor agonist, (-) baclofen, into MT and nRT exacerbated, and the GABA(B)R antagonist, CGP 35348 abolished, SSWD in the GABA(B)R1a(tg) mice. These data suggest that the nRT and MT are necessary for the generation of SSWD in the GABA(B)R1a(tg) model of atypical absence seizures, and indicate that GABA(B)R-mediated mechanisms within thalamus are necessary for the genesis of SSWD in atypical absence seizures. A putative cortico-thalamo-hippocampal circuit is proposed to explain the unique electrographic findings, ictal behavior, pharmacology, and impairment of cognition that characterize atypical absence seizures.
To address the development of early anxiety disorders across the lifespan, the High USV line of rats was bred based on rates of infant ultrasonic vocalization in the 40-50 kHz range of predominant frequencies (USV) to maternal separation at postnatal day (P) 10. In this study, rates of USV in High line infants (pups: Postnatal Day 11+/-1) were compared to those of randomly-bred controls in response to EPIX compound PRX-00023, a unique serotonin (5-HT) agonist, acting exclusively at the 5-HT1A receptor, or buspirone, a nonspecific 5HT1A agonist. After testing, pups were examined for sedation and other drug-related effects. The results indicated that all doses of buspirone reduced USV rates in isolation, consistent with other reports. PRX-00023 significantly reduced USV rates at the lowest doses (0.01-0.05 mg/kg). None of the PRX-00023 doses produced sedation, whereas all but the lowest dose of buspirone (0.1 mg/kg) produced sedation effects. The results suggest that this compound alleviates infantile anxiety-like behavior with great specificity in rats bred for high anxiety/depressive phenotypes by selectively targeting 5-HT1A receptors, possibly by both pre- and post-synaptic mechanisms.
Addiction is a chronic relapsing brain disease and treatment of relapse to drug-seeking is considered the most challenging part of treating addictive disorders. Relapse can be modeled in laboratory animals using reinstatement paradigms, whereby behavioral responding for a drug is extinguished and then reinstated by different trigger factors, such as environmental cues or stress. In this review, we first describe currently used animal models of relapse, different relapse triggering factors, and the validity of this model to assess relapse in humans. We further summarize the growing body of pharmacological interventions that have shown some promise in treating relapse to psychostimulant addiction. Moreover, we present an overview on the drugs tested in cocaine or methamphetamine addicts and examine the overlap of existing preclinical and clinical data. Finally, based on recent advances in our understanding of the neurobiology of relapse and published preclinical data, we highlight the most promising areas for future anti-relapse medication development.
Beta-amyloid (Abeta)-induced neurotoxicity is considered to be mediated through the formation of reactive oxygen species (ROS). In this study, the protective effects of Poria cocos water extract (PCW) against Abeta1-42-induced cell death were investigated using rat pheochromocytoma (PC12) cells. Exposure of PC12 cells to the Abeta1-42 (20 microM) for 48h resulted in neuronal cell death, whereas pretreatment with PCW at the concentration range of 5-125 microg/ml reduced Abeta1-42-induced cell death. In addition, PC12 cells treated with Abeta1-42 exhibited increased accumulation of intracellular oxidative damages and underwent apoptotic death as determined by characteristic morphological alterations and positive in situ terminal end-labeling (TUNEL staining). However, PCW attenuated Abeta1-42-induced cytotoxicity, apoptotic features, and accumulation of intracellular oxidative damage. Moreover, PCW (5 to 125 microg/ml) decreased expression of apoptotic protein Bax and activity of caspase-3, but enhanced expression of anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2. These results suggest that PCW may protect cells through suppressing the oxidative stress and the apoptosis induced by Abeta1-42, implying that PCW may be potential natural agents for Alzheimer's diseases.
Dr Winstein is recognized for her outstanding achievements in research, administration, and education. She has been dedicated to finding solutions to the problems that physical therapists face in the clinic and improving the lives of patients with neurological disorders, significantly in the area of motor learning and rehabilitation of patients poststroke. Internationally recognized as a leader for her research in the area of motor learning and neuroscience, Dr Winstein has had great success in funded research in particular, which is considered unusual for the physical therapy profession. She has received 25 research awards, cumulatively totaling more than $15 million. Dr Winstein is a member of the Research and Neurology sections of the American Physical Therapy Association. She has served as a guest editor for Physical Therapy and co-chaired the program committee for III STEP, a conference sponsored by the Neurology and Pediatric sections in 2005. Between 2002 and 2005, she was instrumental in helping to establish and direct the first clinical research network in physical therapy (PTClinResNet), funded in part through a grant from the Foundation for Physical Therapy. She has given more than 100 invited presentations over the course of her career, both nationally and internationally. Dr Winstein's record of publication is further proof of the impact of her contributions to the science of motor control and learning for neurorehabilitation. She has authored 55 publications in peer-reviewed journals, with 18 as first author, and 73 published abstracts. She has authored 10 chapters in refereed volumes, another 5 in non-refereed texts, and 6 invited commentaries. In her 36-year career, Dr Winstein has been honored with some of the most prestigious awards in the physical therapy profession, including the Research Award from the Neurology Section, the Eugene Michels New Investigator Award, the Marian Williams Award for Research, and the John Maley Lecture Award. She was elected a Catherine Worthingham Fellow in 2003.

How dietary restriction (DR) increases lifespan and decreases disease burden are questions of major interest in biomedical research. Here we report that hypothalamic expression of CREB-binding protein (CBP) and CBP-binding partner Special AT-rich sequence binding protein 1 (SATB-1) is highly correlated with lifespan across five strains of mice, and expression of these genes decreases with age and diabetes in mice. Furthermore, in Caenorhabditis elegans, cbp-1 is induced by bacterial dilution DR (bDR) and the daf-2 mutation, and cbp-1 RNAi specifically in adults completely blocks lifespan extension by three distinct protocols of DR, partially blocks lifespan extension by the daf-2 mutation but not of cold, and blocks delay of other age-related pathologies by bDR. Inhibiting the C. elegans ortholog of SATB-1 and CBP-binding partners daf-16 and hsf-1 also attenuates lifespan extension by bDR, but not other protocols of DR. In a transgenic Abeta42 model of Alzheimer's disease, cbp-1 RNAi prevents protective effects of bDR and accelerates Abeta42-related pathology. Furthermore, consistent with the function of CBP as a histone acetyltransferase, drugs that enhance histone acetylation increase lifespan and reduce Abeta42-related pathology, protective effects completely blocked by cbp-1 RNAi. Other factors implicated in lifespan extension are also CBP-binding partners, suggesting that CBP constitutes a common factor in the modulation of lifespan and disease burden by DR and the insulin/IGF1 signaling pathway.
What role does attention play in ensuring the temporal precision of visual perception? Behavioural studies have investigated feature selection and binding in time using fleeting sequences of stimuli in the Rapid Serial Visual Presentation (RSVP) paradigm, and found that temporal accuracy is reduced when attentional control is diminished. To reduce the efficacy of attentional deployment, these studies have employed the Attentional Blink (AB) phenomenon. In this article, we use electroencephalography (EEG) to directly investigate the temporal dynamics of conscious perception. Specifically, employing a combination of experimental analysis and neural network modelling, we test the hypothesis that the availability of attention reduces temporal jitter in the latency between a target's visual onset and its consolidation into working memory. We perform time-frequency analysis on data from an AB study to compare the EEG trials underlying the P3 ERPs (Event-related Potential) evoked by targets seen outside vs. inside the AB time window. We find visual differences in phase-sorted ERPimages and statistical differences in the variance of the P3 phase distributions. These results argue for increased variation in the latency of conscious perception during the AB. This experimental analysis is complemented by a theoretical exploration of temporal attention and target processing. Using activation traces from the Neural-ST(2) model, we generate virtual ERPs and virtual ERPimages. These are compared to their human counterparts to propose an explanation of how target consolidation in the context of the AB influences the temporal variability of selective attention. The AB provides us with a suitable phenomenon with which to investigate the interplay between attention and perception. The combination of experimental and theoretical elucidation in this article contributes to converging evidence for the notion that the AB reflects a reduction in the temporal acuity of selective attention and the timeliness of perception.

Impulse control disorders (ICDs) are a heterogeneous group of conditions involving repetitive, excessive and compulsive activities that interfere with life functioning. Examples are pathological gambling, compulsive shopping and hypersexuality. Over the last decade, ICDs have become increasingly recognised as being associated with Parkinson disease (PD), with the literature highlighting a link between dopamine replacement therapy and the development of ICDs. Patients who develop ICDs in the context of compulsive anti-Parkinsonian drug use are described as having dopamine dysregulation syndrome (DDS), which is associated with repetitive complex stereotyped behaviours called punding. Case-control and observational studies have further noted that patients with PD who develop ICDs are more likely to have younger-onset PD, a history of alcohol dependence, novelty-seeking personality traits and psychiatric comorbidities. The pathophysiology of underlying mechanisms is not fully understood, but recent evidence suggests that dopaminergic drugs, particularly dopamine agonists, coupled with changes in reward pathways involving the ventral striatal and related circuitry, may play a role. Neuroimaging studies using positron emission tomography and functional MRI have provided valuable information in this area: patients with DDS have been found to show enhanced dopamine release in the ventral striatum, suggesting functional abnormalities in the mesolimbic networks. Management of ICDs in patients with PD can be challenging, as they may not be aware of a change in their behaviour or may conceal their symptoms to avoid embarrassment. Currently, there is no clear evidence of an optimal treatment. Management is based on a careful balance of dopaminergic drugs with control of the aberrant behaviour, supported by psychological interventions. This review aims to summarise the current literature on ICDs, their phenomenology, epidemiology, clinical features, pathophysiology and management.
Nutrition can affect the brain throughout the life cycle, with profound implications for mental health and degenerative disease. Many aspects of nutrition, from entire diets to specific nutrients, affect brain structure and function. The present short review focuses on recent insights into the role of nutrition in cognition and mental health and is divided into four main sections. First, the importance of nutritional balance and nutrient interactions to brain health are considered by reference to the Mediterranean diet, energy balance, fatty acids and trace elements. Many factors modulate the effects of nutrition on brain health and inconsistencies between studies can be explained in part by differences in early environment and genetic variability. Thus, these two factors are considered in the second and third parts of the present review. Finally, recent findings on mechanisms underlying the actions of nutrition on the brain are considered. These mechanisms involve changes in neurotrophic factors, neural pathways and brain plasticity. Advances in understanding the critical role of nutrition in brain health will help to fulfil the potential of nutrition to optimise brain function, prevent dysfunction and treat disease.
Over recent decades, the development of specialised techniques such as patch clamping and site-directed mutagenesis have established the contribution of neuronal ion channel dysfunction to the pathophysiology of common neurological conditions including epilepsy, multiple sclerosis, spinal cord injury, peripheral neuropathy, episodic ataxia, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and neuropathic pain. Recently, these insights from in vitro studies have been translated into the clinical realm. In keeping with this progress, novel clinical axonal excitability techniques have been developed to provide information related to the activity of a variety of ion channels, energy-dependent pumps and ion exchange processes activated during impulse conduction in peripheral axons. These non-invasive techniques have been extensively applied to the study of the biophysical properties of human peripheral nerves in vivo and have provided important insights into axonal ion channel function in health and disease. This review will provide a translational perspective, focusing on an overview of the investigational method, the clinical utility in assessing the biophysical basis of ectopic symptom generation in peripheral nerve disease and a review of the major findings of excitability studies in acquired and inherited neurological disease states.
