Zebrafish is becoming an increasingly popular model in the field of visual neuroscience. Although the absorption spectra of its cone photopigments have been described, the cone action spectra were still unknown. In this study we report the action spectra of the four types of zebrafish cone photoreceptors, determined by measuring voltage responses upon light stimulation using whole cell patch clamp recordings. A generic template of photopigment absorption spectra was fit to the resulting action spectra in order to establish the maximum absorption wavelength, the A2-based photopigment contribution and the size of the -wave of each cone-type. Although in general there is close correspondence between zebrafish cone action- and absorbance spectra, our data suggest that in the case of MWS- and LWS-cones there is appreciable contribution of A2-based photopigments and that the -wave for these cones is smaller than expected based on the absorption spectra.
Several experimental studies in the literature have shown that even when performing purely kinesthetic tasks, such as reaching for a kinesthetically felt target with a hidden hand, the brain reconstructs a visual representation of the movement. In our previous studies, however, we did not observe any role of a visual representation of the movement in a purely kinesthetic task. This apparent contradiction could be related to a fundamental difference between the studied tasks. In our study subjects used the same hand to both feel the target and to perform the movement, whereas in most other studies, pointing to a kinesthetic target consisted of pointing with one hand to the finger of the other, or to some other body part. We hypothesize, therefore, that it is the necessity of performing inter-limb transformations that induces a visual representation of purely kinesthetic tasks. To test this hypothesis we asked subjects to perform the same purely kinesthetic task in two conditions: INTRA and INTER. In the former they used the right hand to both perceive the target and to reproduce its orientation. In the latter, subjects perceived the target with the left hand and responded with the right. To quantify the use of a visual representation of the movement we measured deviations induced by an imperceptible conflict that was generated between visual and kinesthetic reference frames. Our hypothesis was confirmed by the observed deviations of responses due to the conflict in the INTER, but not in the INTRA, condition. To reconcile these observations with recent theories of sensori-motor integration based on maximum likelihood estimation, we propose here a new model formulation that explicitly considers the effects of covariance between sensory signals that are directly available and internal representations that are 'reconstructed' from those inputs through sensori-motor transformations.
Transfer of type-1 helper T-conditioned (Th1-conditioned) cells promotes functional recovery with enhanced axonal remodeling after spinal cord injury (SCI). This study explored the molecular mechanisms underlying the beneficial effects of pro-inflammatory Th1-conditioned cells after SCI. The effect of Th1-conditioned cells from interferon- (ifn-) knockout mice (ifn-(-/-) Th1 cells) on the recovery after SCI was reduced. Transfer of Th1-conditioned cells led to the activation of microglia (MG) and macrophages (Ms), with interleukin 10 (IL-10) upregulation. This upregulation of IL-10 was reduced when ifn-(-/-) Th1 cells were transferred. Intrathecal neutralization of IL-10 in the spinal cord attenuated the effects of Th1-conditioned cells. Further, IL-10 is robustly secreted from Th1-conditioned cells in an ifn--dependent manner. Th1-conditioned cells from interleukin 10 knockout (il-10(-/-)) mice had no effects on recovery from SCI. These findings demonstrate that ifn--dependent secretion of IL-10 from Th1 cells, as well as native MG/Ms, is required for the promotion of motor recovery after SCI.
New spinal cord injury (SCI) cases are frequently due to non-traumatic causes, including vascular disorders. To develop mechanism-based neuroprotective strategies for acute SCI requires full understanding of the early pathophysiological changes to prevent disability and paralysis. The aim of our study was to identify the molecular and cellular mechanisms of cell death triggered by a pathological medium (PM) mimicking ischemia in the rat spinal cord in vitro. We previously showed that extracellular Mg(2+) (1mM) worsened PM-induced damage and inhibited locomotor function. The present study indicated that 1h of PM+Mg(2+) application induced delayed pyknosis chiefly in the spinal white matter via overactivation of poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase 1 (PARP1), suggesting cell death mediated by the process of parthanatos that was largely suppressed by pharmacological block of PARP-1. Gray matter damage was less intense and concentrated in dorsal horn neurons and motoneurons that became immunoreactive for the mitochondrial apoptosis-inducing factor (the intracellular effector of parthanatos) translocated into the nucleus to induce chromatin condensation and DNA fragmentation. Immunoreactivity to TRPM ion channels believed to be involved in ischemic brain damage was also investigated. TRPM2 channel expression was enhanced 24h later in dorsal horn and motoneurons, whereas TRPM7 channel expression concomitantly decreased. Conversely, TRPM7 expression was found earlier (3h) in white matter cells, whereas TRPM2 remained undetectable. Simulating acute ischemic-like damage in vitro in the presence of Mg(2+) showed how, during the first 24h, this divalent cation unveiled differential vulnerability of white matter cells and motoneurons, with distinct changes in their TRPM expression.
Perinatal brain damage underlies an important share of motor and neurodevelopmental disabilities, such as cerebral palsy, cognitive impairment, visual dysfunction and epilepsy. Clinical, epidemiological, and experimental studies have revealed that factors such as inflammation, excitotoxicity and oxidative stress contribute considerably to both white and grey matter injury in the immature brain. A member of the death associated protein kinase (DAPk) family, DAPk1, has been implicated in cerebral ischemic damage, whereby DAPk1 potentiates NMDA receptor-mediated excitotoxicity through interaction with the NR2BR subunit. DAPk1 also mediate a range of activities from autophagy, membrane blebbing and DNA fragmentation ultimately leading to cell death. DAPk mRNA levels are particularly highly expressed in the developing brain and thus, we hypothesize that DAPk1 may play a role in perinatal brain injury. In addition to reviewing current knowledge, we present new aspects of the molecular structure of DAPk domains, and relate these findings to interacting partners of DAPk1, DAPk-regulation in NMDA-induced cerebral injury and novel approaches to blocking the injurious effects of DAPk1.
This video publication explains in detail the experimental protocol of the resident-intruder paradigm in rats. This test is a standardized method to measure offensive aggression and defensive behavior in a semi natural setting. The most important behavioral elements performed by the resident and the intruder are demonstrated in the video and illustrated using artistic drawings. The use of the resident intruder paradigm for acute and chronic social stress experiments is explained as well. Finally, some brief tests and criteria are presented to distinguish aggression from its more violent and pathological forms.
Drosophila larval locomotion is a splendid model system in developmental and physiological neuroscience, by virtue of the genetic accessibility of the underlying neuronal components in the circuits(1-6). Application of optogenetics(7,8) in the larval neural circuit allows us to manipulate neuronal activity in spatially and temporally patterned ways(9-13). Typically, specimens are broadly illuminated with a mercury lamp or LED, so specificity of the target neurons is controlled by binary gene expression systems such as the Gal4-UAS system(14,15). In this work, to improve the spatial resolution to &quot;sub-genetic resolution&quot;, we locally illuminated a subset of neurons in the ventral nerve cord using lasers implemented in a conventional confocal microscope. While monitoring the motion of the body wall of the semi-intact larvae, we interactively activated or inhibited neural activity with channelrhodopsin(16,17) or halorhodopsin(18-20), respectively. By spatially and temporally restricted illumination of the neural tissue, we can manipulate the activity of specific neurons in the circuit at a specific phase of behavior. This method is useful for studying the relationship between the activities of a local neural assembly in the ventral nerve cord and the spatiotemporal pattern of motor output.
The human brain is a complex system whose topological organization can be represented using connectomics. Recent studies have shown that human connectomes can be constructed using various neuroimaging technologies and further characterized using sophisticated analytic strategies, such as graph theory. These methods reveal the intriguing topological architectures of human brain networks in healthy populations and explore the changes throughout normal development and aging and under various pathological conditions. However, given the huge complexity of this methodology, toolboxes for graph-based network visualization are still lacking. Here, using MATLAB with a graphical user interface (GUI), we developed a graph-theoretical network visualization toolbox, called BrainNet Viewer, to illustrate human connectomes as ball-and-stick models. Within this toolbox, several combinations of defined files with connectome information can be loaded to display different combinations of brain surface, nodes and edges. In addition, display properties, such as the color and size of network elements or the layout of the figure, can be adjusted within a comprehensive but easy-to-use settings panel. Moreover, BrainNet Viewer draws the brain surface, nodes and edges in sequence and displays brain networks in multiple views, as required by the user. The figure can be manipulated with certain interaction functions to display more detailed information. Furthermore, the figures can be exported as commonly used image file formats or demonstration video for further use. BrainNet Viewer helps researchers to visualize brain networks in an easy, flexible and quick manner, and this software is freely available on the NITRC website (www.nitrc.org/projects/bnv/).
Methamphetamine (METH) is a highly addictive psychostimulant with no therapeutics registered to assist addicts in discontinuing use. Glutamatergic dysfunction has been implicated in the development and maintenance of addiction. We sought to assess the involvement of the metabotropic glutamate 5 receptor (mGlu5) in behaviours relevant to METH addiction because this receptor has been implicated in the actions of other drugs of abuse, including alcohol, cocaine and opiates. mGlu5 knockout (KO) mice were tested in intravenous self-administration, conditioned place preference and locomotor sensitization. Self-administration of sucrose was used to assess the response of KO mice to a natural reward. Acquisition and maintenance of self-administration, as well as the motivation to self-administer METH was intact in mGlu5 KO mice. Importantly, mGlu5 KO mice required more extinction sessions to extinguish the operant response for METH, and exhibited an enhanced propensity to reinstate operant responding following exposure to drug-associated cues. This phenotype was not present when KO mice were tested in an equivalent paradigm assessing operant responding for sucrose. Development of conditioned place preference and locomotor sensitization were intact in KO mice; however, conditioned hyperactivity to the context previously paired with drug was elevated in KO mice. These data demonstrate a role for mGlu5 in the extinction and reinstatement of METH-seeking, and suggests a role for mGlu5 in regulating contextual salience.
Personality characteristics, e.g. aggressiveness, have long been associated with an increased risk of cardiac disease. However, the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. In this study we used a rodent model for characterizing cardiac autonomic modulation in rats that differ widely in their level of aggressive behavior. To reach this goal, high-aggressive (HA, n=10) and non-aggressive (NA, n=10) rats were selected from a population (n=121) of adult male Wild-type Groningen rats on the basis of their latency time to attack (ALT, s) a male intruder in a resident-intruder test lasting 600 s. In order to obtain information on their cardiac autonomic modulation, ECG recordings were subsequently obtained via radiotelemetry at rest, during stressful stimuli and under autonomic pharmacological manipulations, and analyzed by means of time- and frequency-domain indexes of heart rate variability. During resting conditions, HA rats (ALT&lt;90 s) displayed reduced heart rate variability, mostly in terms of lower vagal modulation compared to NA rats (ALT&gt;600 s). Exposure to stressful stimuli (i.e. restraint and psychosocial stress) provoked similar tachycardic responses between the two groups. However, under stress conditions HA rats displayed a reduced vagal antagonism and an increased incidence of tachyarrhythmias compared to NA rats. In addition, beta-adrenergic pharmacological stimulation induced a much larger incidence of ventricular tachyarrhythmias in HA rats compared to NA counterparts. These findings are consistent with the view that high levels of aggressive behavior in rats are associated to signs of cardiac autonomic impairment and increased arrhythmogenic susceptibility that may predict vulnerability to cardiac morbidity and mortality.
The present study asks when infants are able to selectively anticipate the goals of observed actions, and how this ability relates to infants' own abilities to produce those specific actions. Using eye-tracking technology to measure on-line anticipation, 6-, 8- and 10-month-old infants and a control group of adults were tested while observing an adult reach with a whole hand grasp, a precision grasp or a closed fist towards one of two different sized objects. The same infants were also given a comparable action production task. All infants showed proactive gaze to the whole hand grasps, with increased degrees of proactivity in the older groups. Gaze proactivity to the precision grasps, however, was present from 8 months of age. Moreover, the infants' ability in performing precision grasping strongly predicted their ability in using the actor's hand shape cues to differentially anticipate the goal of the observed action, even when age was partialled out. The results are discussed in terms of the specificity of action anticipation, and the fine-grained relationship between action production and action perception.
Despite that a wealth of evidence links striatal dopamine to individual reward learning performance in non-social environments, the neurochemical underpinnings of such learning during social interaction are unknown. Here, we show that the administration of 300 mg of the dopamine precursor L-DOPA to 200 healthy male subjects influences learning about a partners' prosocial preferences in a novel social interaction task, which is akin to a repeated trust game. We found learning to be modulated by a well-established genetic marker of striatal dopamine levels, the 40-bp variable number tandem repeats polymorphism of the dopamine transporter (DAT1 polymorphism). In particular, we found that L-DOPA improves learning in 10/10R genoype subjects, who are assumed to have lower endogenous striatal dopamine levels and impairs learning in 9/10R genotype subjects, who are assumed to have higher endogenous dopamine levels. These findings provide first evidence for a critical role of dopamine in learning whether an interaction partner has a prosocial or a selfish personality. The applied pharmacogenetic approach may open doors to new ways of studying psychiatric disorders such as psychosis, which is characterized by distorted perceptions of others' prosocial attitudes.
Multivariate neural data provide the basis for assessing interactions in brain networks. Among myriad connectivity measures, Granger causality (GC) has proven to be statistically intuitive, easy to implement, and generate meaningful results. Although its application to functional MRI (fMRI) data is increasing, several factors have been identified that appear to hinder its neural interpretability: (a) latency differences in hemodynamic response function (HRF) across different brain regions, (b) low-sampling rates, and (c) noise. Recognizing that in basic and clinical neuroscience, it is often the change of a dependent variable (e.g., GC) between experimental conditions and between normal and pathology that is of interest, we address the question of whether there exist systematic relationships between GC at the fMRI level and that at the neural level. Simulated neural signals were convolved with a canonical HRF, down-sampled, and noise-added to generate simulated fMRI data. As the coupling parameters in the model were varied, fMRI GC and neural GC were calculated, and their relationship examined. Three main results were found: (1) GC following HRF convolution is a monotonically increasing function of neural GC; (2) this monotonicity can be reliably detected as a positive correlation when realistic fMRI temporal resolution and noise level were used; and (3) although the detectability of monotonicity declined due to the presence of HRF latency differences, substantial recovery of detectability occurred after correcting for latency differences. These results suggest that Granger causality is a viable technique for analyzing fMRI data when the questions are appropriately formulated.
Using a well-established model of binge-like ethanol treatment of rat pups on postnatal days (PD) 4-9, we found that maturation of GABAA receptor (GABAAR) miniature postsynaptic currents (mPSCs) was substantially blunted for medial septum/diagonal band (MS/DB) neurons in brain slices on PD 11-16. Ethanol reduced mPSC amplitude, frequency, and decay kinetics, while attenuating or exaggerating allosteric actions of zolpidem and allopregnanolone, respectively. The impact of ethanol in vivo was long lasting as most changes in MS/DB GABAAR mPSCs were still observed as late as PD 60-85. Maturing MS/DB neurons in nave brain slices PD 4-16 showed increasing mPSC frequency, decay kinetics, and zolpidem sensitivity that were nearly identical to our earlier findings in cultured septal neurons (DuBois et al., 2004, 2006). These rapidly developing mPSC parameters continued to mature through the first month of life then stabilized throughout the remainder of the lifespan. Finally, equivalent ethanol-induced alterations in GABAAR mPSC signaling were present in MS/DB neurons from both male and female animals. Previously, we showed ethanol treatment of cultured embryonic day 20 septal neurons distorts the maturation of GABAAR mPSCs predicting that early stages of GABAergic transmission in MS/DB neurons are vulnerable to intoxication injury (DuBois et al., 2004, 2006). Since the overall character, timing, and magnitude of GABAergic mPSC developmental- and ethanol-induced changes in the in vivo model so closely mirror chronologically equivalent adaptations in cultured septal neurons, this suggests that such parallel models of ethanol impairment of GABAergic synaptic development in vivo and in vitro should be useful for translational studies exploring the efficacy and mechanism of action of potential therapeutic interventions from the cellular to whole animal level.



Prostatic acid phosphatase (PAP) and ecto-5'-nucleotidase (NT5E) hydrolyze extracellular AMP to adenosine in dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurons and in the dorsal spinal cord. Previously, we found that adenosine production was reduced, but not eliminated, in Pap//Nt5e/ double knock-out (dKO) mice, suggesting that a third AMP ectonucleotidase was present in these tissues. Here, we found that tissue-nonspecific alkaline phosphatase (TNAP, encoded by the Alpl gene) is expressed and functional in DRG neurons and spinal neurons. Using a cell-based assay, we found that TNAP rapidly hydrolyzed extracellular AMP and activated adenosine receptors. This activity was eliminated by MLS-0038949, a selective pharmacological inhibitor of TNAP. In addition, MLS-0038949 eliminated AMP hydrolysis in DRG and spinal lamina II of dKO mice. Using fast-scan-cyclic voltammetry, we found that adenosine was rapidly produced from AMP in spinal cord slices from dKO mice, but virtually no adenosine was produced in spinal cord slices from dKO mice treated with MLS-0038949. Last, we found that AMP inhibited excitatory neurotransmission via adenosine A1 receptor activation in spinal cord slices from wild-type, Pap/, Nt5e/, and dKO mice, but failed to inhibit neurotransmission in slices from dKO mice treated with MLS-0038949. These data suggest that triple elimination of TNAP, PAP, and NT5E is required to block AMP hydrolysis to adenosine in DRG neurons and dorsal spinal cord. Moreover, our data reveal that TNAP, PAP, and NT5E are the main AMP ectonucleotidases in primary somatosensory neurons and regulate physiology by metabolizing extracellular purine nucleotides.
Brain fluctuations at rest are not random but are structured in spatial patterns of correlated activity across different brain areas. The question of how resting-state functional connectivity (FC) emerges from the brain's anatomical connections has motivated several experimental and computational studies to understand structure-function relationships. However, the mechanistic origin of resting state is obscured by large-scale models' complexity, and a close structure-function relation is still an open problem. Thus, a realistic but simple enough description of relevant brain dynamics is needed. Here, we derived a dynamic mean field model that consistently summarizes the realistic dynamics of a detailed spiking and conductance-based synaptic large-scale network, in which connectivity is constrained by diffusion imaging data from human subjects. The dynamic mean field approximates the ensemble dynamics, whose temporal evolution is dominated by the longest time scale of the system. With this reduction, we demonstrated that FC emerges as structured linear fluctuations around a stable low firing activity state close to destabilization. Moreover, the model can be further and crucially simplified into a set of motion equations for statistical moments, providing a direct analytical link between anatomical structure, neural network dynamics, and FC. Our study suggests that FC arises from noise propagation and dynamical slowing down of fluctuations in an anatomically constrained dynamical system. Altogether, the reduction from spiking models to statistical moments presented here provides a new framework to explicitly understand the building up of FC through neuronal dynamics underpinned by anatomical connections and to drive hypotheses in task-evoked studies and for clinical applications.
Strong evidence exists for a key role of the human ventral occipitotemporal cortex (vOT) in reading, yet there have been conflicting reports about the specificity of this area in orthographic versus nonorthographic processing. We suggest that the inconsistencies in the literature can be explained by the method used to identify regions that respond to words. Here we provide evidence that the &quot;visual word form area&quot; (VWFA) shows word selectivity when identified at the individual subject level, but that intersubject variability in the location and size of the VWFA causes this selectivity to be washed out if defining the VWFA at the group level or based on coordinates from the literature. Our findings confirm the existence of a word-selective region in vOT while providing an explanation for why other studies have found a lack of word specificity in vOT.
Protein phosphatase-1 (PP1) activity is important for many calcium-dependent neuronal functions including Hebbian synaptic plasticity and learning and memory. PP1 activity is necessary for the induction of long-term depression, whereas downregulation of PP1 activity is required for the normal induction of long-term potentiation. However, how PP1 is activated is not clear. Moreover, it is not known whether PP1 plays a role in homeostatic synaptic scaling, another form of synaptic plasticity which functions to reset the neuronal firing rate in response to chronic neuronal activity perturbations. In this study, we found that PP1 inhibitor-2 (I-2) is phosphorylated at serine 43 (S43) in rat and mouse cortical neurons in response to bicuculine application. Expression of I-2 phosphorylation-blocking mutant I-2 (S43A) blocked the dephosphorylation of GluA2 at serine 880, AMPA receptor trafficking, and synaptic downscaling induced by bicuculline application. Our data suggest that the phosphorylation of I-2 at S43 appears to be mediated by L-type calcium channels and calcium/calmodulin-dependent myosin light-chain kinase. Our work thus reveals a novel calcium-induced PP1 activation pathway critical for homeostatic synaptic plasticity.
Hierarchical predictive coding suggests that attention in humans emerges from increased precision in probabilistic inference, whereas expectation biases attention in favor of contextually anticipated stimuli. We test these notions within auditory perception by independently manipulating top-down expectation and attentional precision alongside bottom-up stimulus predictability. Our findings support an integrative interpretation of commonly observed electrophysiological signatures of neurodynamics, namely mismatch negativity (MMN), P300, and contingent negative variation (CNV), as manifestations along successive levels of predictive complexity. Early first-level processing indexed by the MMN was sensitive to stimulus predictability: here, attentional precision enhanced early responses, but explicit top-down expectation diminished it. This pattern was in contrast to later, second-level processing indexed by the P300: although sensitive to the degree of predictability, responses at this level were contingent on attentional engagement and in fact sharpened by top-down expectation. At the highest level, the drift of the CNV was a fine-grained marker of top-down expectation itself. Source reconstruction of high-density EEG, supported by intracranial recordings, implicated temporal and frontal regions differentially active at early and late levels. The cortical generators of the CNV suggested that it might be involved in facilitating the consolidation of context-salient stimuli into conscious perception. These results provide convergent empirical support to promising recent accounts of attention and expectation in predictive coding.
In layer 5 neocortical pyramidal neurons, backpropagating action potentials (bAPs) firing at rates above a critical frequency (CF) induce supralinear Ca influx and regenerative potentials in apical dendrites. Paired temporally with an EPSP, this Ca influx can result in synaptic plasticity. We studied the actions of neuropeptide Y (NPY), an abundant neocortical neuropeptide, on Ca influx in layer 5 pyramidal neurons of somatosensory neocortex in Sprague Dawley and Wistar rats, using a combination of somatic and dendritic intracellular recordings and simultaneous Ca imaging. Ca influx induced by trains of bAPs above a neuron's CF was inhibited by NPY, acting only at the distal dendrite, via Y receptors. NPY does not affect evoked synaptic glutamate release, paired synaptic facilitation, or synaptic rundown in longer trains. Extracellular Cs did not prevent NPY's postsynaptic effects, suggesting it does not act via either G-protein-activated inwardly rectifying K conductance (G(IRK)) or hyperpolarization-activated, cyclic nucleotide-gated channels. NPY application suppresses the induction of the long-term depression (LTD) normally caused by pairing 100 EPSPs with bursts of 2 bAPs evoked at a supracritical frequency. These findings suggest that distal dendritic Ca influx is necessary for LTD induction, and selective inhibition of this distal dendritic Ca influx by NPY can thus regulate synaptic plasticity in layer 5 pyramidal neurons.
Olfactory ensheathing cells (OECs) have neuro-restorative properties in animal models for spinal cord injury, stroke, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Here we used a multistep screening approach to discover genes specifically contributing to the regeneration-promoting properties of OECs. Microarray screening of the injured olfactory pathway and of cultured OECs identified 102 genes that were subsequently functionally characterized in cocultures of OECs and primary dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons. Selective siRNA-mediated knockdown of 16 genes in OECs (ADAMTS1, BM385941, FZD1, GFRA1, LEPRE1, NCAM1, NID2, NRP1, MSLN, RND1, S100A9, SCARB2, SERPINI1, SERPINF1, TGFB2, and VAV1) significantly reduced outgrowth of cocultured DRG neurons, indicating that endogenous expression of these genes in OECs supports neurite extension of DRG neurons. In a gain-of-function screen for 18 genes, six (CX3CL1, FZD1, LEPRE1, S100A9, SCARB2, and SERPINI1) enhanced and one (TIMP2) inhibited neurite growth. The most potent hit in both the loss- and gain-of-function screens was SCARB2, a protein that promotes cholesterol secretion. Transplants of fibroblasts that were genetically modified to overexpress SCARB2 significantly increased the number of regenerating DRG axons that grew toward the center of a spinal cord lesion in rats. We conclude that expression of SCARB2 enhances regenerative sprouting and that SCARB2 contributes to OEC-mediated neuronal repair.
In the brainstem, the auditory system diverges into two pathways that process different sound localization cues, interaural time differences (ITDs) and level differences (ILDs). We investigated the site where ILD is detected in the auditory system of barn owls, the posterior part of the lateral lemniscus (LLDp). This structure is equivalent to the lateral superior olive in mammals. The LLDp is unique in that it is the first place of binaural convergence in the brainstem where monaural excitatory and inhibitory inputs converge. Using binaurally uncorrelated noise and a generalized linear model, we were able to estimate the spectrotemporal tuning of excitatory and inhibitory inputs to these cells. We show that the response of LLDp neurons is highly locked to the stimulus envelope. Our data demonstrate that spectrotemporally tuned, temporally delayed inhibition enhances the reliability of envelope locking by modulating the gain of LLDp neurons' responses. The dependence of gain modulation on ILD shown here constitutes a means for space-dependent coding of stimulus identity by the initial stages of the auditory pathway.
Growing axons navigate a complex environment as they respond to attractive and repellent guidance cues. Axons can modulate their responses to cues through a G-protein-coupled, cAMP-dependent signaling pathway. To examine the role of G-protein signaling in axon guidance in vivo, we used the GAL4/UAS system to drive expression of dominant-negative heterotrimeric G-proteins (DNG) in retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) of embryonic zebrafish. Retinal axons normally cross at the ventral midline and project to the contralateral tectum. Expression of DNG(S) in RGCs causes retinal axons to misproject to the ipsilateral tectum. These errors resemble misprojections in adcy1, adcy8, nrp1a, sema3D, or sema3E morphant embryos, as well as in sema3D mutant embryos. nrp1a is expressed in RGCs as their axons extend toward and across the midline. sema3D and sema3E are expressed adjacent to the chiasm, suggesting that they facilitate retinal midline crossing. We demonstrate synergistic induction of ipsilateral misprojections between adcy8 knockdown and transgenic DNG(S) expression, adcy8 and nrp1a morphants, or nrp1a morphants and transgenic DNG(S) expression. Using qPCR analysis, we show that either transgenic DNG(S)-expressing embryos or adcy8 morphant embryos have decreased levels of nrp1a and nrp1b mRNA. Ipsilateral misprojections in adcy8 morphants are corrected by the expression of an nrp1a rescue construct expressed in RGCs. These findings are consistent with the idea that elevated cAMP levels promote Neuropilin1a expression in RGCs, increasing the sensitivity of retinal axons to Sema3D, Sema3E, or other neuropilin ligands at the midline, and consequently facilitate retinal axon crossing in the chiasm.
Some personality traits, including novelty seeking, are good predictors of vulnerability to stress-related mood disorders in both humans and rodents. While high-novelty-seeking rats [high responders (HRs)] are vulnerable to the induction of depressive-like symptoms by social defeat stress, low-novelty-seeking rats [low responders (LRs)] are not. Here, we show that such individual differences are critically regulated by hippocampal BDNF. While LR animals exhibited an increase in BDNF levels following social defeat, HR individuals did not. This difference in hippocampal BDNF expression promoted the vulnerability of HR and the resilience of LR rats. Indeed, preventing activation of BDNF signaling by infusing the BDNF scavenger TrkB-Fc into the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus of LR rats led to social defeat-induced social avoidance, whereas its activation in HR rats by the TrkB agonist 7,8-dihydroxyflavone promoted social approach. Along with the changes in BDNF expression following defeat, we report in LR animals a downregulation of the inactive BDNF receptor TrkB.T1, associated with an activation of CREB through Akt-mediated signaling, but not MSK1-mediated signaling. In HR animals, none of these molecules were affected by social defeat. Importantly, the BDNF upregulation involved an epigenetically controlled transcription of bdnf exon VI, associated with a coherent regulation of relevant epigenetic factors. Altogether, our data support the importance of hippocampal BDNF regulation in response to stressful events. Moreover, we identify a specific and adaptive regulation of bdnf exon VI in the hippocampus as a critical regulator of stress resilience, and strengthen the importance of epigenetic factors in mediating stress-induced adaptive and maladaptive responses in different individuals.
The ventromedial prefrontal cortex (vmPFC) plays a critical role in processing appetitive stimuli. Recent investigations have shown that reward value signals in the vmPFC can be altered by emotion regulation processes; however, to what extent the processing of positive emotion relies on neural regions implicated in reward processing is unclear. Here, we investigated the effects of emotion regulation on the valuation of emotionally evocative images. Two independent experimental samples of human participants performed a cognitive reappraisal task while undergoing fMRI. The experience of positive emotions activated the vmPFC, whereas the regulation of positive emotions led to relative decreases in vmPFC activation. During the experience of positive emotions, vmPFC activation tracked participants' own subjective ratings of the valence of stimuli. Furthermore, vmPFC activation also tracked normative valence ratings of the stimuli when participants were asked to experience their emotions, but not when asked to regulate them. A separate analysis of the predictive power of vmPFC on behavior indicated that even after accounting for normative stimulus ratings and condition, increased signal in the vmPFC was associated with more positive valence ratings. These results suggest that the vmPFC encodes a domain-general value signal that tracks the value of not only external rewards, but also emotional stimuli.
Emotionally arousing pictures induce increased activation of visual pathways relative to emotionally neutral images. A predominant model for the preferential processing and attention to emotional stimuli posits that the amygdala modulates sensory pathways through its projections to visual cortices. However, recent behavioral studies have found intact perceptual facilitation of emotional stimuli in individuals with amygdala damage. To determine the importance of the amygdala to modulations in visual processing, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging to examine visual cortical blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) signal in response to emotionally salient and neutral images in a sample of human patients with unilateral medial temporal lobe resection that included the amygdala. Adults with right (n = 13) or left (n = 5) medial temporal lobe resections were compared with demographically matched healthy control participants (n = 16). In the control participants, both aversive and erotic images produced robust BOLD signal increases in bilateral primary and secondary visual cortices relative to neutral images. Similarly, all patients with amygdala resections showed enhanced visual cortical activations to erotic images both ipsilateral and contralateral to the lesion site. All but one of the amygdala resection patients showed similar enhancements to aversive stimuli and there were no significant group differences in visual cortex BOLD responses in patients compared with controls for either aversive or erotic images. Our results indicate that neither the right nor left amygdala is necessary for the heightened visual cortex BOLD responses observed during emotional stimulus presentation. These data challenge an amygdalo-centric model of emotional modulation and suggest that non-amygdalar processes contribute to the emotional modulation of sensory pathways.
It is well established that behavioral sensitization to cocaine is accompanied by increased spine density and AMPA receptor (AMPAR) transmission in the nucleus accumbens (NAc), but two major questions remain unanswered. Are these adaptations mechanistically coupled? And, given that they can be dissociated from locomotor sensitization, what is their functional significance? We tested the hypothesis that the guanine-nucleotide exchange factor Kalirin-7 (Kal-7) couples cocaine-induced AMPAR and spine upregulation and that these adaptations underlie sensitization of cocaine's incentive-motivational properties-the properties that make it &quot;wanted.&quot; Rats received eight daily injections of saline or cocaine. On withdrawal day 14, we found that Kal-7 levels and activation of its downstream effectors Rac-1 and PAK were increased in the NAc of cocaine-sensitized rats. Furthermore, AMPAR surface expression and spine density were increased, as expected. To determine whether these changes require Kal-7, a lentiviral vector expressing Kal-7 shRNA was injected into the NAc core before cocaine exposure. Knocking down Kal-7 abolished the AMPAR and spine upregulation normally seen during cocaine withdrawal. Despite the absence of these adaptations, rats with reduced Kal-7 levels developed locomotor sensitization. However, incentive sensitization, which was assessed by how rapidly rats learned to self-administer a threshold dose of cocaine, was severely impaired. These results identify a signaling pathway coordinating AMPAR and spine upregulation during cocaine withdrawal, demonstrate that locomotor and incentive sensitization involve divergent mechanisms, and link enhanced excitatory transmission in the NAc to incentive sensitization.

In a recent letter to the editor (Patient Saf. Surg. 2013, 7:17), Weiss and Moramarco made the claim that surgical correction of idiopathic scoliosis is not supported based on the available literature citing no medical indication and high complication rates as compared to non-operative management. In this letter we show that there is a role for surgical treatment as the only predictable option to obtain correction of a curve and that the risk of complications with newer instrumentation does not approach 50% as cited by Weiss and Moramarco. We share the opinion with Weiss and Moramarco that a decision for surgery is not one to be made lightly, and should include options of purely observation, bracing, as well as surgery depending on the potential progression profile and conversations with the child and parents.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) importantly regulates learning and memory and supports the survival of injured neurons. Reduced BDNF levels have been detected in the brains of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients but the exact role of BDNF in the pathophysiology of the disorder remains obscure. We have recently shown that reduced signaling of BDNF receptor TrkB aggravates memory impairment in APPswe/PS1dE9 (APdE9) mice, a model of AD. The present study examined the influence of Bdnf gene deficiency (heterozygous knockout) on spatial learning, spontaneous exploratory activity and motor coordination/balance in middle-aged male and female APdE9 mice. We also studied brain BDNF protein levels in APdE9 mice in different ages showing progressive amyloid pathology. Both APdE9 and Bdnf mutations impaired spatial learning in males and showed a similar trend in females. Importantly, the effect was additive, so that double mutant mice performed the worst. However, APdE9 and Bdnf mutations influenced spontaneous locomotion in contrasting ways, such that locomotor hyperactivity observed in APdE9 mice was normalized by Bdnf deficiency. Obesity associated with Bdnf deficiency did not account for the reduced hyperactivity in double mutant mice. Bdnf deficiency did not alter amyloid plaque formation in APdE9 mice. Before plaque formation (3 months), BDNF protein levels where either reduced (female) or unaltered (male) in the APdE9 mouse cortex. Unexpectedly, this was followed by an age-dependent increase in mature BDNF protein. Bdnf mRNA and phospho-TrkB levels remained unaltered in the cortical tissue samples of middle-aged APdE9 mice. Immunohistological studies revealed increased BDNF immunoreactivity around amyloid plaques indicating that the plaques may sequester BDNF protein and prevent it from activating TrkB. If similar BDNF accumulation happens in human AD brains, it would suggest that functional BDNF levels in the AD brains are even lower than reported, which could partially contribute to learning and memory problems of AD patients.

Recently, many lines of investigation in neuroscience and statistical physics have converged to raise the hypothesis that the underlying pattern of neuronal activation which results in electroencephalography (EEG) signals is nonlinear, with self-affine dynamics, while scalp-recorded EEG signals themselves are nonstationary. Therefore, traditional methods of EEG analysis may miss many properties inherent in such signals. Similarly, fractal analysis of EEG signals has shown scaling behaviors that may not be consistent with pure monofractal processes. In this study, we hypothesized that scalp-recorded human EEG signals may be better modeled as an underlying multifractal process. We utilized the Physionet online database, a publicly available database of human EEG signals as a standardized reference database for this study. Herein, we report the use of multifractal detrended fluctuation analysis on human EEG signals derived from waking and different sleep stages, and show evidence that supports the use of multifractal methods. Next, we compare multifractal detrended fluctuation analysis to a previously published multifractal technique, wavelet transform modulus maxima, using EEG signals from waking and sleep, and demonstrate that multifractal detrended fluctuation analysis has lower indices of variability. Finally, we report a preliminary investigation into the use of multifractal detrended fluctuation analysis as a pattern classification technique on human EEG signals from waking and different sleep stages, and demonstrate its potential utility for automatic classification of different states of consciousness. Therefore, multifractal detrended fluctuation analysis may be a useful pattern classification technique to distinguish among different states of brain function.
Independent navigation for blind individuals can be extremely difficult due to the inability to recognise and avoid obstacles. Assistive techniques such as white canes, guide dogs, and sensory substitution provide a degree of situational awareness by relying on touch or hearing but as yet there are no techniques that attempt to make use of any residual vision that the individual is likely to retain. Residual vision can restricted to the awareness of the orientation of a light source, and hence any information presented on a wearable display would have to limited and unambiguous. For improved situational awareness, i.e. for the detection of obstacles, displaying the size and position of nearby objects, rather than including finer surface details may be sufficient. To test whether a depth-based display could be used to navigate a small obstacle course, we built a real-time head-mounted display with a depth camera and software to detect the distance to nearby objects. Distance was represented as brightness on a low-resolution display positioned close to the eyes without the benefit focussing optics. A set of sighted participants were monitored as they learned to use this display to navigate the course. All were able to do so, and time and velocity rapidly improved with practise with no increase in the number of collisions. In a second experiment a cohort of severely sight-impaired individuals of varying aetiologies performed a search task using a similar low-resolution head-mounted display. The majority of participants were able to use the display to respond to objects in their central and peripheral fields at a similar rate to sighted controls. We conclude that the skill to use a depth-based display for obstacle avoidance can be rapidly acquired and the simplified nature of the display may appropriate for the development of an aid for sight-impaired individuals.
In 1942, Walls described the concept of a 'nocturnal bottleneck' in placental mammals, where these species could survive only by avoiding daytime activity during times in which dinosaurs were the dominant taxon. Walls based this concept of a longer episode of nocturnality in early eutherian mammals by comparing the visual systems of reptiles, birds and all three extant taxa of the mammalian lineage, namely the monotremes, marsupials (now included in the metatherians) and placentals (included in the eutherians). This review describes the status of what has become known as the nocturnal bottleneck hypothesis, giving an overview of the chronobiological patterns of activity. We review the ecological plausibility that the activity patterns of (early) eutherian mammals were restricted to the night, based on arguments relating to endothermia, energy balance, foraging and predation, taking into account recent palaeontological information. We also assess genes, relating to light detection (visual and non-visual systems) and the photolyase DNA protection system that were lost in the eutherian mammalian lineage. Our conclusion presently is that arguments in favour of the nocturnal bottleneck hypothesis in eutherians prevail.
Properties of the circadian and annual timing systems are expected to vary systematically with latitude on the basis of different annual light and temperature patterns at higher latitudes, creating specific selection pressures. We review literature with respect to latitudinal clines in circadian phenotypes as well as in polymorphisms of circadian clock genes and their possible association with annual timing. The use of latitudinal (and altitudinal) clines in identifying selective forces acting on biological rhythms is discussed, and we evaluate how these studies can reveal novel molecular and physiological components of these rhythms.


Nestin-Cre mice have a significant metabolic phenotype that is hard to discern from current literature. Indeed, the Cre-lox system has numerous problems that can affect physiological parameters, and these are missed when the correct control strains are not used. Despite the increasing use of the Cre-lox system, these issues were not visible to the scientific community previously and may have affected published work. This makes it important to highlight the issues and raise awareness of the pitfalls of the Cre-lox system. Therefore, this perspective will discuss the impact of CNS and peripheral &quot;off-target&quot; Cre recombination on metabolic systems and describe the development of new approaches to obviate the difficulties.


The complex, interacting influences on eating behavior and energy expenditure prevent elucidation of the causal role of any single factor in the current obesity epidemic. However, greater variety in the food supply, particularly in the form of highly palatable, energy-dense foods, has likely made a contribution. This study was undertaken to test the hypothesis that greater dietary variety is associated with greater caloric intake within individual meals consumed by free-feeding, socially-housed female rhesus monkeys. Meal patterns were assessed during two, two-week dietary phases. One phase consisted of a choice between a standard chow diet and a highly palatable diet (HPD). The other phase consisted of access to the chow only. Food intake for each subject was recorded continuously using previously validated, automated feeders, and a meal was defined based on a minimum kilocalorie requirement and a minimum inter-meal interval. During the choice condition, animals electively consumed mixed meals that incorporated both diets as well as other meals that consisted exclusively of a single diet - chow-only or HPD-only. Animals consumed the most calories per meal when the meal was comprised of both the chow and HPD, which differed in caloric density, flavor, and texture. Interestingly, however, there was no significant difference in the amount of calories consumed as HPD-only meals in the choice condition compared to meals in the chow-only, no choice condition, suggesting consumption of a single food during a meal, regardless of palatability, provides a constant sensory experience that may lead to more rapid habituation and subsequent meal cessation. Additionally, during the dietary choice condition, animals consumed fewer calories in the form of chow-only meals. Thus, the present results suggest that limiting dietary variety, regardless of palatability, may be a useful strategy for weight loss in overweight and obese individuals by reducing caloric intake within individual meals.
The biological function of the prion protein, which is intimately involved in the onset of prion diseases, remains unclear. To understand whether the prion protein could play a role in animal behavior, a battery of tests was applied to young and aged mice that express, or not, the prion protein. In contrast to the similar results obtained in all young animals, we found that aged mice lacking the prion protein reacted to new and stressful environments differently than their wild-type counterparts. This may suggest that, upon aging, the absence of the prion protein results in altered neural processing at the basis of adaptation to new situations.
In an effort to address inconsistencies in the literature, we tested a cross-species estrogen withdrawal model of postpartum depression (PPD) with a series of rodent experiments and a prospective, naturalistic human study. All rats were ovariectomized prior to experimentation. The first rat experiment examined the effects of low- and high-dose estradiol administration and withdrawal on lateral-hypothalamic self-stimulation, a behavioral index of anhedonia, in experimental (n=7) and vehicle-only control animals (n=7). The second rat experiment examined the effects of high-dose estradiol withdrawal on activity and immobility during the forced swim test, an index of behavioral despair, in a separate group of experimental (n=8) and vehicle-only control animals (n=8). In the human study, women with (n=8) and without (n=12) a history of PPD completed mood ratings and collected saliva samples (to assess estradiol levels) daily during the third trimester of pregnancy through 10 days postpartum. The presence of PPD was assessed at one month postpartum. In the animal studies, rats in the estradiol withdrawal group demonstrated significantly greater immobility and less swimming than controls. Estradiol withdrawal resulted in reduced responding for electrical stimulation (multiple intensities) relative to estradiol administration. In the human study, there was no significant association between estradiol and negative affect among women with or without a history of PPD. However, there was a correlation between daily estradiol levels and negative affect in the women with incident PPD at one month postpartum. Despite important cross-species differences, both the rat and human studies provided evidence of the effects of estradiol on perinatal depressive symptoms.
The medial septum which is extensively connected to the hippocampus is involved in cholinergic theta oscillation control as well as the anxiety related disorders. In the present study, we aimed to investigate the possible involvement of the medial septum cholinoceptors in the nicotine-induced anxiogenic-like behaviors in rats, using the elevated plus-maze (EPM) test. Intraperitoneal administration of nicotine at 0.6 and 0.8 mg/kg, decreased the open-arms time percentage (%OAT) and open-arms entries percentage (%OAE); indicating an anxiogenic-like response. Intra-medial septum microinjection of mecamylamine, a nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) antagonist at the doses of 1-4 g/rat, increased %OAT (4 g/rat), suggesting an anxiolytic-like effect. This however, did not alter the anxiogenic-like response induced by the effective dose of nicotine (0.6 mg/kg). Moreover, co-administration of the subthreshold dose of mecamylamine (2 g/rat) plus nicotine at the dose of 0.5 or 0.6 mg/kg, increased or decreased the anxiolytic-like behaviors, respectively. On the other hand, sole intra-medial septum infusion of atropine, a muscarinic acetylcholine receptor (mAChR) antagonist, induced an anxiolytic (0.05 g/rat) and anxiogenic (0.25 g/rat)-like effects, respectively. The dose of 0.05 g/rat however, blocked the nicotine response. Furthermore, intra-medial septum microinjection of the highest dose of mecamylamine (4 g/rat) plus nicotine (0.6 mg/kg) decreased the locomotor activity, while other treatments had no effect on this parameter. Our results suggested that, nicotine-induced anxiogenic-like behaviors may be mediated via the activation of cholinoceptors and possibly other receptor mechanism(s) in the medial septum.
This study investigated associations among young adults' hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis activity, autonomic nervous system activity, and subjective stress in response to interpersonal conflict to better characterize coordination across stress systems. Seven saliva samples were collected from 199 young adult opposite-sex couples before, during, and after they discussed an unresolved relationship conflict. Samples were later assayed for cortisol and alpha-amylase (sAA). Couples rated anticipatory stress prior to the conflict and perceived stress immediately following the task. Growth curve modeling was used to examine two possible levels of within-person coordination across physiological systems: alignment between cortisol and sAA responses throughout the sampling period (&quot;matched phase coordination&quot;), and association between overall levels of cortisol and sAA in response to conflict (&quot;average level coordination&quot;). Whereas both partners showed the former type of coordination, only women showed the latter type. Positive anticipation of the stressor predicted stronger cortisol-sAA matched phase coordination for women. Pre-task ratings related to women's sAA, and post-task ratings related to both partners' cortisol responses. Implications for a multisystem interpretation of normal and pathological responses to daily stress are discussed.
Turtles are one of the least explored clades regarding endocranial anatomy with few available descriptions of the brain and inner ear of extant representatives. In addition, the paleoneurology of extinct turtles is poorly known and based on only a few natural cranial endocasts. The main goal of this study is to provide for the first time a detailed description of the neuroanatomy of an extinct turtle, the Late Jurassic Plesiochelysetalloni, including internal carotid circulation, cranial endocast and inner ear, based on the first digital 3D reconstruction using micro CT scans. The general shape of the cranial endocast of P. etalloni is tubular, with poorly marked cephalic and pontine flexures. Anteriorly, the olfactory bulbs are clearly differentiated suggesting larger bulbs than in any other described extinct or extant turtle, and indicating a higher capacity of olfaction in this taxon. The morphology of the inner ear of P. etalloni is comparable to that of extant turtles and resembles those of slow-moving terrestrial vertebrates, with markedly low, short and robust semicircular canals, and a reduced lagena. In P. etalloni the arterial pattern is similar to that found in extant cryptodires, where all the internal carotid branches are protected by bone. As the knowledge of paleoneurology in turtles is scarce and the application of modern techniques such as 3D reconstructions based on CT scans is almost unexplored in this clade, we hope this paper will trigger similar investigations of this type in other turtle taxa.
Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are zinc dependent endopeptidases that can be released from neurons in an activity dependent manner to play a role in varied forms of learning and memory. MMP inhibitors impair hippocampal long term potentiation (LTP), spatial memory, and behavioral correlates of drug addiction. Since MMPs are thought to influence LTP through a 1 integrin dependent mechanism, it has been suggested that these enzymes cleave specific substrates to generate integrin binding ligands. In previously published work, we have shown that neuronal activity stimulates rapid MMP dependent shedding of intercellular adhesion molecule-5 (ICAM-5), a synaptic adhesion molecule expressed on dendrites of the telencephalon. We have also shown that the ICAM-5 ectodomain can interact with 1 integrins to stimulate integrin dependent phosphorylation of cofilin, an event that occurs with dendritic spine maturation and LTP. In the current study, we investigate the potential for the ICAM-5 ectodomain to stimulate changes in -amino-3-hydroxyl-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-propionate receptor (AMPAR) dependent glutamatergic transmission. Single cell recordings show that the ICAM-5 ectodomain stimulates an increase in the frequency, but not the amplitude, of AMPA mini excitatory post synaptic currents (mEPSCs). With biotinylation and precipitation assays, we also show that the ICAM-5 ectodomain stimulates an increase in membrane levels of GluA1, but not GluA2, AMPAR subunits. In addition, we observe an ICAM-5 associated increase in GluA1 phosphorylation at serine 845. Concomitantly, ICAM-5 affects an increase in GluA1 surface staining along dendrites without affecting an increase in dendritic spine number. Together these data are consistent with the possibility that soluble ICAM-5 increases glutamatergic transmission and that post-synaptic changes, including increased phosphorylation and dendritic insertion of GluA1, could contribute. We suggest that future studies are warranted to determine whether ICAM-5 is one of a select group of synaptic CAMs whose shedding contributes to MMP dependent effects on learning and memory.
Slow oscillations are a hallmark of slow wave sleep. They provide a temporal framework for a variety of phasic events to occur and interact during sleep, including the expression of high-frequency oscillations and the discharge of neurons across the entire brain. Evidence shows that the emergence of distinct high-frequency oscillations during slow oscillations facilitates the communication among brain regions whose activity was correlated during the preceding waking period. While the frequencies of oscillations involved in such interactions have been identified, their dynamics and the correlations between them require further investigation. Here we analyzed the structure and dynamics of these signals in anesthetized rats. We show that spindles and gamma oscillations coexist but have distinct temporal dynamics across the slow oscillation cycle. Furthermore, we observed that spindles and gamma are functionally coupled to the slow oscillations and between each other. Following the activation of ascending pathways from the brainstem by means of a carbachol injection in the pedunculopontine nucleus, we were able to modify the gain in the gamma oscillations that are independent of the spindles while the spindle amplitude was reduced. Furthermore, carbachol produced a decoupling of the gamma oscillations that are dependent on the spindles but with no effect on their amplitude. None of the changes in the high-frequency oscillations affected the onset or shape of the slow oscillations, suggesting that slow oscillations occur independently of the phasic events that coexist with them. Our results provide novel insights into the regulation, dynamics and homeostasis of cortical slow oscillations.
The striatum is predominantly composed of medium spiny neurons (MSNs) that send their axons along two parallel pathways known as the direct and indirect pathways. MSNs from the direct pathway express high levels of D1 dopamine receptors, while MSNs from the indirect pathway express high levels of D2 dopamine receptors. There has been much debate over the extent of colocalization of these two major dopamine receptors in MSNs of adult animals. In addition, the ontogeny of the segregation process has never been investigated. In this paper, we crossed bacterial artificial chromosome drd1a-tdTomato and drd2-GFP reporter transgenic mice to characterize these models and estimate D1-D2 co-expression in the developing striatum as well as in striatal primary cultures. We show that segregation is already extensive at E18 and that the degree of co-expression further decreases at P0 and P14. Finally, we also demonstrate that cultured MSNs maintain their very high degree of D1-D2 reporter protein segregation, thus validating them as a relevant in vitro model.
Synaptic loss is the cardinal feature linking neuropathology to cognitive decline in Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, the mechanism of synaptic damage remains incompletely understood. Here, using FRET-based glutamate sensor imaging, we show that amyloid- peptide (A) engages 7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors to induce release of astrocytic glutamate, which in turn activates extrasynaptic NMDA receptors (eNMDARs) on neurons. In hippocampal autapses, this eNMDAR activity is followed by reduction in evoked and miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (mEPSCs). Decreased mEPSC frequency may reflect early synaptic injury because of concurrent eNMDAR-mediated NO production, tau phosphorylation, and caspase-3 activation, each of which is implicated in spine loss. In hippocampal slices, oligomeric A induces eNMDAR-mediated synaptic depression. In AD-transgenic mice compared with wild type, whole-cell recordings revealed excessive tonic eNMDAR activity accompanied by eNMDAR-sensitive loss of mEPSCs. Importantly, the improved NMDAR antagonist NitroMemantine, which selectively inhibits extrasynaptic over physiological synaptic NMDAR activity, protects synapses from A-induced damage both in vitro and in vivo.
Mitochondrial Ca(2+) homeostasis is fundamental to regulation of mitochondrial membrane potential, ATP production, and cellular Ca(2+) homeostasis. It has been known for decades that isolated mitochondria can take up Ca(2+) from the extramitochondrial solution, but the molecular identity of the Ca(2+) channels involved in this action is largely unknown. Here, we show that a fraction of canonical transient receptor potential 3 (TRPC3) channels is localized to mitochondria, a significant fraction of mitochondrial Ca(2+) uptake that relies on extramitochondrial Ca(2+) concentration is TRPC3-dependent, and the up- and down-regulation of TRPC3 expression in the cell influences the mitochondrial membrane potential. Our findings suggest that TRPC3 channels contribute to mitochondrial Ca(2+) uptake. We anticipate our observations may provide insights into the mechanisms of mitochondrial Ca(2+) uptake and advance understanding of the physiological role of TRPC3.

Diabetic foot ulcers (DFUs) are a chronic, non-healing complication of diabetes that lead to high hospital costs and, in extreme cases, to amputation. Diabetic neuropathy, peripheral vascular disease, abnormal cellular and cytokine/chemokine activity are among the main factors that hinder diabetic wound repair. DFUs represent a current and important challenge in the development of novel and efficient wound dressings. In general, an ideal wound dressing should provide a moist wound environment, offer protection from secondary infections, remove wound exudate and promote tissue regeneration. However, no existing dressing fulfills all the requirements associated with DFU treatment and the choice of the correct dressing depends on the wound type and stage, injury extension, patient condition and the tissues involved. Currently, there are different types of commercially available wound dressings that can be used for DFU treatment which differ on their application modes, materials, shape and on the methods employed for production. Dressing materials can include natural, modified and synthetic polymers, as well as their mixtures or combinations, processed in the form of films, foams, hydrocolloids and hydrogels. Moreover, wound dressings may be employed as medicated systems, through the delivery of healing enhancers and therapeutic substances (drugs, growth factors, peptides, stem cells and/or other bioactive substances). This work reviews the state of the art and the most recent advances in the development of wound dressings for DFU treatment. Special emphasis is given to systems employing new polymeric biomaterials, and to the latest and innovative therapeutic strategies and delivery approaches.
Hepatic encephalopathy (HE) is a neuropsychiatric disorder occurring as a consequence of both acute and chronic liver failure. Advanced HE is generally accompanied with extrapyramidal symptoms including rigidity and tremor, which may reflect alterations of the dopaminergic system. Recently we reported a beneficial effect of the neuroactive steroid dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHEAS) in cirrhotic rats, however the mechanisms of such an effect by DHEAS were not addressed. In the present study, we describe the changes of the dopaminergic system occurring in the cirrhotic rats and concomitantly we investigated the effect of DHEAS on this system in Sprague-Dawley rats using the expression of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) as a neuronal marker. Rats were submitted to bile duct ligation (BDL) surgery and TH immunohistochemistry was assessed in the Substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc), striatum, ventral tegmental area (VTA) and the cortex. TH immunoreactivity showed a significant diminution in both SNc and VTA concomitantly with the cortical and the striatal outputs in the BDL rats vs. controls. Three daily injections of 5mg/kg of DHEAS to BDL rats significantly normalized TH expression decrease in both SNc and VTA as well as dopaminergic projections to the striatum and the cortex of BDL rats. The present data support an involvement of the dopaminergic system in mild HE and a possible beneficial effect of the neurosteroid DHEAS as a potential pharmacological treatment of mild HE.
Abstract available from the publisher.



Frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) has been subdivided based on the main pathology found in the brains of affected individuals. When the primary pathology is aggregated, hyperphosphorylated tau, the pathological diagnosis is FTLD-tau. When the primary pathology is cytoplasmic and/or nuclear aggregates of phosphorylated TAR-DNA-binding protein (TDP-43), the pathological diagnosis is FTLD-TDP. Notably, TDP-43 pathology can also occur in conjunction with a number of neurodegenerative disorders; however, unknown environmental and genetic factors may regulate this TDP-43 pathology. Using transgenic mouse models of several diseases of the central nervous system, we explored whether a primary proteinopathy might secondarily drive TDP-43 proteinopathy. We found abnormal, cytoplasmic accumulation of phosphorylated TDP-43 specifically in two tau transgenic models, but TDP-43 pathology was absent in mouse models of A deposition, -synucleinopathy or Huntington's disease. Though tau pathology showed considerable overlap with cytoplasmic, phosphorylated TDP-43, tau pathology generally preceded TDP-43 pathology. Biochemical analysis confirmed the presence of TDP-43 abnormalities in the tau mice, which showed increased levels of high molecular weight, soluble TDP-43 and insoluble full-length and ~35kD TDP-43. These data demonstrate that the neurodegenerative cascade associated with a primary tauopathy in tau transgenic mice can also promote TDP-43 abnormalities. These findings provide the first in vivo models to understand how TDP-43 pathology may arise as a secondary consequence of a primary proteinopathy.
Spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy (SBMA) is an inherited neuromuscular disease caused by expansion of a polyglutamine (polyQ) tract in the androgen receptor (AR). SBMA is triggered by the interaction between polyQ-AR and its natural ligands, testosterone and dihydrotestosterone (DHT). SBMA is characterized by the loss of lower motor neurons and skeletal muscle fasciculations, weakness, and atrophy. To test the hypothesis that the interaction between polyQ-AR and androgens exerts cell-autonomous toxicity in skeletal muscle, we characterized the process of myogenesis and polyQ-AR expression in DHT-treated satellite cells obtained from SBMA patients and age-matched healthy control subjects. Treatment with androgens increased the size and number of myonuclei in myotubes from control subjects, but not from SBMA patients. Myotubes from SBMA patients had a reduced number of nuclei, suggesting impaired myotube fusion and altered contractile structures. The lack of anabolic effects of androgens on myotubes from SBMA patients was not due to defects in myoblast proliferation, differentiation or apoptosis. DHT treatment of myotubes from SBMA patients increased nuclear accumulation of polyQ-AR and decreased the expression of interleukin-4 (IL-4) when compared to myotubes from control subjects. Following DHT treatment, exposure of myotubes from SBMA patients with IL-4 treatment rescued myonuclear number and size to control levels. This supports the hypothesis that androgens alter the fusion process in SBMA myogenesis. In conclusion, these results provide evidence of an androgen-dependent impairment of myogenesis in SBMA that could contribute to disease pathogenesis.

Most drugs acting on the cell surface receptors are membrane permeable and thus able to engage their target proteins in different subcellular compartments. However, these drugs' effects on cell surface receptors have historically been studied on the plasma membrane alone. Increasing evidence suggests that small molecules may also modulate their targeted receptors through membrane trafficking or organelle-localized signaling inside the cell. These additional modes of interaction have been reported for functionally diverse ligands of GPCRs, ion channels, and transporters. Such intracellular drug-target engagements affect cell surface expression. Concurrent intracellular and cell surface signaling may also increase the complexity and therapeutic opportunities of small molecule modulation. Here we discuss examples of ligand-receptor interactions that are present in both intra- and extracellular sites, and the potential therapeutic opportunities presented by this phenomenon.


The present study examined the hypothesis whether non-target languages are inhibited during multilingual language production by examining the n-2 language repetition cost. In two experiments, Uighur-Chinese-English trilinguals named Arabic digits in one of their three languages according to a visually presented cue. Significant n-2 repetition costs were obtained in both experiments, which indicate that inhibition exists during multilingual word production. In addition, in Experiment 1, it was also found that the n-2 repetition cost was reduced when cues were highly compatible with the task, which means non-target languages are less inhibited. In Experiment 2, the n-2 repetition cost was increased at a shorter CSI. Taken together, these results indicate that inhibition of non-target languages occurs during multilingual language production, and that efficiency of establishing the target language task schema has an effect on the inhibitory control process.

The treatment of cocaine addiction remains a challenge. The dopamine replacement approach in cocaine addiction involves the use of a competing dopaminergic agonist that might suppress withdrawal and drug craving in abstinent individuals. Although it has long been postulated that such an approach may be therapeutically successful, preclinical or clinical evidence showing its effectiveness to prevent relapse is scant. We used in rats a procedure that involved substitution of the N-substituted benztropine analog 3-[bis(4'-fluorophenyl)methoxy]-tropane (AHN-1055), a long-acting dopamine uptake inhibitor (DUI), for cocaine. Maintenance treatment was self-administered. After extinction, reinstatement of drug seeking was induced by cocaine priming. We measured the contents of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), c-Fos and Fas-associated death domain (FADD) proteins in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) following reinstatement. DUI, but not amphetamine, substitution led to extinction of active lever presses, as did saline substitution. DUI substitution significantly reduced cocaine-induced reinstatement of drug-seeking behavior, which was strongly elicited after saline substitution. Rats passively yoked to DUI also showed reduced cocaine-primed reinstatement. Reductions in drug seeking during reinstatement were matched by downward shifts in the contents of BDNF, c-Fos and FADD proteins in the mPFC, which were elevated in relapsing rats. These data indicate that DUI substitution not only leads to extinction of self-administration behavior but also prevents reinstatement of drug seeking induced by cocaine re-exposure. Thus, DUI substitution therapy using compounds with low abuse potential, even if received passively in the context previously paired with drug taking, may provide an effective treatment for stimulant addiction.







Winning an aggressive encounter enhances the probability of winning future contests. This phenomenon, known as the winner effect, has been well studied across vertebrate species. While numerous animal models have been developed to study the winner effect in the laboratory setting, large variation in experimental design, choice of species, and housing conditions have resulted in conflicting reports on the behavioral outcomes. The Syrian hamster (Mesocricetus auratus) presents as a novel species with face validity to study the effects of repeated fighting on subsequent agonistic encounters. After a 14-day training period, &quot;trained fighter&quot; hamsters displayed elevated fighting behaviors characterized by more intense and severe displays of aggression along with increased displays of dominant postures compared to nave residents with no prior social experience. To determine whether these phenotypic changes in fighting behavior reflect alterations in neurochemistry, brains of aggressive and nave hamsters were examined for changes in dopaminergic innervation in key regions known to control social and motivational behavior. Interestingly, changes in tyrosine hydroxylase, the rate limiting enzyme for dopamine production, were observed in brain regions within the social decision-making network. These increases in aggression observed after repeated winning may reflect a learned behavior resulting from increases in neurotransmitter activity which serve to reinforce the behavior. The data implicate the presence of a winner effect in hamsters and provide evidence for a neural mechanism underlying the changes in aggressive behavior after repeated agonistic encounters.

Day and colleagues have presented the first data showing that the behavioral effects of low to moderate prenatal alcohol exposure seen in childhood and adolescence persist into adulthood. Using the Achenbach Adult Self-Report, they found dose-dependent effects of prenatal exposure on internalizing, externalizing, and attention problems that persist in young adults and, thus, appear to be permanent. To date, few studies have attempted to identify thresholds at which prenatal alcohol exposure is harmful, although the animal literature suggests that even 1 to 2 binge episodes can result in adverse effects in the offspring. Four prospective longitudinal studies have reported adverse effects at what can be characterized as moderate exposure levels based on NIAAA criteria, but moderate drinking women often concentrate their alcohol use on 1 to 2 days per week, thereby engaging in binge drinking. In this study, binge drinking was not a strong predictor of adverse outcome when average daily dose was held constant, a conclusion that the authors note runs &quot;counter to studies that have reported that binge drinking has a greater effect.&quot; This inconsistency may be due to the difficulty of allocating variance that is shared (overlapping) between average daily dose and binge drinking (i.e., dose/occasion). Data from laboratory animal studies, in which dosage can be manipulated experimentally, demonstrate that a higher dose per occasion, the key feature of binge drinking, leads to more severe adverse effects. Day and colleagues' findings of adverse effects at low levels of exposure provides clear evidence that there is no safe level of drinking during pregnancy and that, even at low levels, drinking results in irreversible behavioral impairment. On the other hand, given the evidence from the animal and most human studies, it is important for all women who drink during pregnancy, even at light to moderate levels, to recognize that minimizing their intake per occasion and refraining from binge drinking can reduce risk to the fetus.


Certain preparations of Alzheimer-associated amyloid beta (A) exhibit rapid (within minutes) synaptotoxicity when applied to hippocampal slices or neuronal cell cultures, or when injected into the central nervous system of rodents. In addition, it is well known that some elderly people have brain amyloidosis without showing signs of cognitive impairment or neurodegeneration beyond the age norm. Biomarkers, reviewed extensively in a recent Perspectives article in Alzheimer's &amp; Dementia, suggest that amyloid-positive individuals are at higher risk of Alzheimer's disease than similarly aged individuals without evidence of brain amyloidosis, provided they live long enough. But how can the brain resist amyloid pathology for many years? Here, we expand on recent biomarker studies suggesting that A build-up and toxicity may occur in two phases. We hypothesize that the first phase may involve an autocatalytic build-up of a nontoxic A reservoir, tentatively named the A(Cat) pool, and that gain of toxicity may require brain incubation of A in the water-deprived plaque milieu over years to produce modified forms of the protein that are truly neurotoxic (A(Tox)). We argue for the need to describe the molecular natures of A(Cat) and A(Tox) in greater detail as a means to gain success in anti-A disease-modifying drug development.





Syncytiotrophoblast is the multinucleated epithelium of the placenta. Although many nuclei are dispersed within the syncytioplasm, others are aggregated into specializations referred to as true and false syncytial knots, and syncytial sprouts. Nuclei within true knots display highly condensed chromatin and are thought to be aged and effete. True knots increase in frequency with gestational age. Excessive formation (Tenney-Parker change) is associated with placental pathology, and a knotting index is used to assess severity. However, this index is potentially confounded by the creation of artifactual appearances (false knots) through tangential sectioning. In addition, knots must be distinguished from syncytial sprouts, which are markers of trophoblast proliferation. Here, we distinguish between sprouts, true knots, and false knots using serial sections and perform IHC for proliferating cell nuclear antigen, upstream binding factor, RNA polymerase II, and 8-oxo-deoxyguanosine as markers of recent incorporation, transcriptional activity, and oxidative damage. Villous explants were exposed to hydrogen peroxide to test the relationship between transcriptional activity and oxidative damage. Sprouts and false knots were found to contain recently incorporated and transcriptionally active nuclei. By contrast, most nuclei within true knots are negative for transcriptional markers but positive for 8-oxo-deoxyguanosine. In vitro, we observed a negative correlation between transcriptional activity and oxidative damage. These findings demonstrate that true knots contain effete damaged nuclei and provide IHC markers for their identification.
Frontotemporal dementia and parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17 (FTDP-17) is a neurodegenerative disorder caused by mutations in the tau gene. Many mutations identified in FTDP-17 have been shown to affect tau exon 10 splicing in vitro, which presumably causes pathologic imbalances in exon 10(-) [3-repeat (3R)] and exon 10(+) [4-repeat (4R)] tau expression and leads to intracellular inclusions of hyperphosphorylated tau in patient brains. However, no reports have investigated this theory using model mice with a tau intronic mutation. Herein, we generated new transgenic mice harboring the tau intron 10 +16C  T mutation. We prepared a transgene construct containing intronic sequences required for exon 10 splicing in the longest tau isoform cDNA. Although mice bearing the construct without the intronic mutation showed normal developmental changes of the tau isoform from 3R tau to equal amounts of 3R and 4R tau, mice with the mutation showed much higher levels of 4R tau at the adult stage. 4R tau was selectively recovered in insoluble brain fractions in their old age. Furthermore, these mice displayed abnormal tau phosphorylation, synapse loss and dysfunction, memory impairment, glial activation, tangle formation, and neuronal loss in an age-dependent manner. These findings provide the first evidence in a mouse model that a tau intronic mutation-induced imbalance of 3R and 4R tau could be a cause of tauopathy.
Increased intestinal permeability is often associated with epithelial inflammation, leaky gut, or other pathological conditions in the gastrointestinal tract. We recently found that melatonin decreases basal duodenal mucosal permeability, suggesting a mucosal protective mode of action of this agent. The aim of the present study was to elucidate the effects of melatonin on ethanol-, wine-, and HCl-induced changes of duodenal mucosal paracellular permeability and motility. Rats were anesthetized with thiobarbiturate and a ~30-mm segment of the proximal duodenum was perfused in situ. Effects on duodenal mucosal paracellular permeability, assessed by measuring the blood-to-lumen clearance of Cr-EDTA, motility, and morphology, were investigated. Perfusing the duodenal segment with ethanol (10 or 15% alcohol by volume), red wine, or HCl (25-100 mM) induced concentration-dependent increases in paracellular permeability. Luminal ethanol and wine increased, whereas HCl transiently decreased duodenal motility. Administration of melatonin significantly reduced ethanol- and wine-induced increases in permeability by a mechanism abolished by the nicotinic receptor antagonists hexamethonium (iv) or mecamylamine (luminally). Signs of mucosal injury (edema and beginning of desquamation of the epithelium) in response to ethanol exposure were seen only in a few villi, an effect that was histologically not changed by melatonin. Melatonin did not affect HCl-induced increases in mucosal permeability or decreases in motility. Our results show that melatonin reduces ethanol- and wine-induced increases in duodenal paracellular permeability partly via an enteric inhibitory nicotinic-receptor dependent neural pathway. In addition, melatonin inhibits ethanol-induced increases in duodenal motor activity. These results suggest that melatonin may serve important gastrointestinal barrier functions.
Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) and dim light at night (dLAN) have both been independently associated with alterations in mood and cognition. We aimed to determine whether dLAN would interact with intermittent hypoxia (IH), a condition characteristic of OSA, to alter the behavioral, cognitive, and affective responses. Adult male mice were housed in either standard lighting conditions (14:10-h light-dark cycle; 150 lux:0 lux) or dLAN (150 lux:5 lux). Mice were then exposed to IH (15 cycles/h, 8 h/day, FiO2 nadir of 5%) for 3 wk, then tested in assays of affective and cognitive responses; brains were collected for dendritic morphology and PCR analysis. Exposure to dLAN and IH increased anxiety-like behaviors, as assessed in the open field, elevated plus maze, and the light/dark box. dLAN and IH increased depressive-like behaviors in the forced swim test. IH impaired learning and memory performance in the passive avoidance task; however, no differences were observed in spatial working memory, as assessed by y-maze or object recognition. IH combined with dLAN decreased cell body area in the CA1 and CA3 regions of the hippocampus. Overall, IH decreased apical spine density in the CA3, whereas dLAN decreased spine density in the CA1 of the hippocampus. TNF- gene expression was not altered by IH or lighting condition, whereas VEGF expression was increased by dLAN. The combination of IH and dLAN provokes negative effects on hippocampal dendritic morphology, affect, and cognition, suggesting that limiting nighttime exposure to light in combination with other established treatments may be of benefit to patients with OSA.

The development of strategies capable to promote nervous system plasticity in adulthood is nowadays an important aim in neuroscience to improve not only cognitive abilities but also to ameliorate pathological dysfunctions. Several studies have demonstrated that adult neurogenesis is regulated by many physiological and pathological stimuli at almost every stage, from proliferation of neuronal precursors until integration and activation of newly formed neurons in the preexisting network. We review the process of generating functional neurons from precursors in the adult brain and its implications in intellectual disability disorders.
In recent years, it has become clear that there is an extensive cross-talk between the nervous and the immune system. Somewhat surprisingly, the immune cells themselves do express components of the neuronal neurotransmitters systems. What role the neurotransmitters, their ion channels, receptors and transporters have in immune function and regulation is an emerging field of study. Several recent studies have shown that the immune system is capable of synthesizing and releasing the classical neurotransmitter GABA (-aminobutyric acid). GABA has a number of effects on the immune cells such as activation or suppression of cytokine secretion, modification of cell proliferation and GABA can even affect migration of the cells. The immune cells encounter GABA when released by the immune cells themselves or when the immune cells enter the brain. In addition, GABA can also be found in tissues like the lymph nodes, the islets of Langerhans and GABA is in high enough concentration in blood to activate, e.g., GABA-A channels. GABA appears to have a role in autoimmune diseases like multiple sclerosis, type 1 diabetes, and rheumatoid arthritis and may modulate the immune response to infections. In the near future, it will be important to work out what specific effects GABA has on the function of the different types of immune cells and determine the underlying mechanisms. In this review, we discuss some of the recent findings revealing the role of GABA as an immunomodulator.
Pressure-assisted digestion of proteins, also known as pressure cycling technology (PCT), using a Barocycler NEP 2320 was compared with the conventional method using atmospheric pressure. Our objective was to demonstrate that PCT provides more controlled enzymatic digestion of proteins than prolonged digestion at atmospheric pressure ranging from 18 to 24 h. More controlled digestion would be beneficial for studies of highly posttranslationally modified protein such as histones. For the comparison of these two techniques, recombinant and native histone H4 were used as model proteins. PCT was optimized for pressure and time, and it was found to be most effective at 15 kpsi for 120 min of incubation. In conclusion, the PCT method was found to be much faster than using atmospheric pressure. PCT was also found to allow for unambiguous control of digestion parameters and to provide a high yield of sequence coverage compared with atmospheric pressure.
Using the double immunostaining method, the glia limitans on the surfaces of mouse and monkey brain and spinal cord were studied systematically. The results showed that the superficial glia limitans of mouse brain and spinal cord comprise a layer of surface astrocytes, while the glia limitans of monkey comprise a layer of foot-plates from marginal regions as described in histology and neuroscience textbooks. These surface astrocytes first appear at embryonic day (E)16 in spinal cord and at E17 on the ventral surface of the brain. At postnatal day (P)1, a layer of astrocytes covered the outermost regions of the spinal cord. At P10, the layer of astrocytes also covered the brain surface. The highest proliferation rates of surface astrocytes were found at E17 in the spinal cord and at E18 in the forebrain.
Inner ear structures are compared among three major genera of the deep-sea fish family Melamphaidae (bigscales and ridgeheads). Substantial interspecific variation is found in the saccular otoliths, including the presence of a unique otolithic &quot;spur&quot; in the genera Melamphaes and Poromitra. The variation in the saccular otolith is correlated with an increase in the number of hair bundle orientation groups on the sensory epithelia from the genera Scopelogadus to Poromitra to Melamphaes. The diverse structural variations found in the saccule may reflect the evolutionary history of these species. The sensory hair cell bundles in this family have the most variable shapes yet encountered in fish ears. In the saccule, most of the hair bundles are 15-20 m high, an exceptional height for fish otolithic end organs. These bundles have large numbers of stereovilli, including some that reach the length of the kinocilium. In the utricle, the striolar region separates into two unusually shaped areas that have not been described in any other vertebrates. The brains in all species have a relatively small olfactory bulb and optic tectum, as well as an enlarged posterior cerebellar region that is likely to be involved in inner ear and lateral line (octavolateral) functions. Data from melamphaids support the hypothesis that specialized anatomical structures are found in the ears of some (if not most) deep-sea fishes, presumably enhancing their hearing sensitivity.
The total number of anatomy teaching hours has declined in medical courses worldwide. Conversely, face-to-face teaching in undergraduate neuroanatomy at Macquarie University increased by 50% in 2011. Our aim was to investigate whether this influenced student performance and overall satisfaction with the course. One hundred eighty-one students consented to participate in this study. A questionnaire was administered to rate the course, and final grades from the old and new unit cohorts were compared. The old and new unit cohorts did not differ in their final grades (P = 0.249). However, the new unit cohort rated their knowledge of the material higher compared to the old unit cohort (P = 0.013), and reported higher levels of satisfaction with the course (P &lt; 0.001). In an era in which teaching time for anatomy has been reduced at tertiary institutions, and there is much lamenting of the effect this will have, there is a paucity of literature on whether the decrease really influences neuroanatomical knowledge. This is the first study, to the best of our knowledge, to show that an increase in total face-to-face teaching hours does not improve student grades, but does increase student satisfaction with the course.

Variation in methods and measures, resulting in past dispute over the existence of population handedness in nonhuman great apes, has impeded progress into the origins of human right-handedness and how it relates to the human hallmark of language. Pooling evidence from behavioral studies, neuroimaging and neuroanatomy, we evaluate data on manual and cerebral laterality in humans and other apes engaged in a range of manipulative tasks and in gestural communication. A simplistic human/animal partition is no longer tenable, and we review four (nonexclusive) possible drivers for the origin of population-level right-handedness: skilled manipulative activity, as in tool use; communicative gestures; organizational complexity of action, in particular hierarchical structure; and the role of intentionality in goal-directed action. Fully testing these hypotheses will require developmental and evolutionary evidence as well as modern neuroimaging data.

Lumbar puncture in the presence of an intracranial tumor with raised intracranial pressure is known to have catastrophic consequences due to herniation of intracranial contents through the tentorial hiatus or foramen magnum. There are relatively few case reports about the same sequence of events when lumbar puncture is performed below the level of a complete spinal block. The mechanism of such deterioration is also subject to conjecture as the spinal cord (unlike the uncus or cerebellar tonsils) is tethered by the dentate ligament and roots on either side, and is hence less mobile. We present one such case of spinal coning and review the available literature.
Spinal arteriovenous fistulas are rare entities. They often present with congestive myelopathy but are infrequently diagnosed as the cause of the patients' symptoms. Only one such case has been described previously in Indian literature. We describe one such case who presented to us after a gap of 3 years since symptom onset and following a failed laminectomy where the cause was later diagnosed to be an intradural fistula in the filum terminale fed by the anterior spinal artery and review the available literature.
With increasing usage of thrombolysis in the treatment of acute ischemic strokes within 4.5- hour window, it is becoming more important to recognize stroke mimics. Though the incidence of stroke mimics being thrombolysed is less than 3%, it is essential to diagnose them so as to avoid wrong thrombolytic treatment which carries potential complications of bleeding. We describe the case of a 17 year old girl with acute lymphoblastic leukemia, who developed stroke like episodes on two consecutive challenges with a chemotherapeutic regime which included intravenous and intrathecal methotrexate. She had MRI changes consistent with acute ischemic stroke on both occasions. Her deficits recovered completely and spontaneously, as did the MRI changes. She did not have any further episodes when methotrexate was excluded from the chemotherapeutic regime.

We report a case of striatal toe in an adolescent with an infarct in lentiform nucleus and briefly discuss its differential diagnoses.
The dominantly inherited ataxias, also known as Spino-cerebellar ataxias (SCAs), are rapidly expanding entities. New mutations are being identified at remarkable regularity. Recent awareness of molecular abnormalities in SCAs has addressed some of the long sought questions, but gaps in knowledge still exist. Three major categories of SCAs, according to molecular mechanisms, have evolved over recent few years: Polyglutamate expansion ataxia, non-coding zone repeat ataxia, and ataxia due to conventional mutation. Using the fulcrum of these mechanisms, the article provides an update of SCAs. Shared and specific clinical features, genetic abnormalities, and possible links between molecular abnormalities and cerebellar degeneration have been discussed. Emphasis has been placed on the mechanisms of polyglutamate toxicity.





We describe a case of shibari, a double hanging sexual asphyxia practice, which ended fatally for one of the two women involved. We present the autopsy findings and a psychiatric and psychometric evaluation of the surviving participant. The survivor had a borderline personality disorder, had suffered sexual abuse as a child, and had a history of illicit substance consumption, self-harm behavior, and sexual dysregulation. This case study raises doubts regarding the safety measures adopted by participants in masochistic practices and the engagement of people with psychiatric disorders in these extremely dangerous games. Further case studies of living participants in such games are likely to shed light on this practice and facilitate treatment.

Living technology aims to help people expand their experiences in everyday life. The environment offers people ways to interact with it, which we call affordances. Living technology is a design for new affordances. When we experience something new, we remember it by the way we perceive and interact with it. Recent studies in neuroscience have led to the idea of a default mode network, which is a baseline activity of a brain system. The autonomy of artificial life must be understood as a sort of default mode that self-organizes its baseline activity, preparing for its external inputs and its interaction with humans. I thus propose a method for creating a suitable default mode as a design principle for living technology. I built a machine called the mind time machine (MTM), which runs continuously for 10 h per day and receives visual data from its environment using 15 video cameras. The MTM receives and edits the video inputs while it self-organizes the momentary now. Its base program is a neural network that includes chaotic dynamics inside the system and a meta-network that consists of video feedback systems. Using this system as the hardware and a default mode network as a conceptual framework, I describe the system's autonomous behavior. Using the MTM as a testing ground, I propose a design principle for living technology.
Several studies of dual-task performance have demonstrated Task 2 to Task 1 response priming (backward compatibility effects), indicating some degree of parallel response computation for concurrent tasks and suggesting that the well-established response selection bottleneck (RSB) model may be incomplete. However, the RSB might be considered to remain informationally intact if this early parallel Task 2 response information does not persist across the attentional shift between tasks to contribute to overt Task 2 performance. We used an adapted psychological refractory period paradigm with an additional early transient Task 2 stimulus to examine whether response information generated for Task 2 in parallel with overt Task 1 response selection could persist across the bottleneck to influence eventual overt Task 2 performance. After controlling for potential indirect effects of Task 1 processing stage variability propagating onto Task 2 reaction time via locus of slack effects, we observed reliable and consistent effects of early Task 2 response information facilitating Task 2 reaction times. These effects were observed only when the responses to both tasks of the dual-task pair were compatible, under both univalent and bivalent response mappings across tasks. These findings may represent evidence of a variably sensitive response gating or suppression mechanism in dual-task performance and support the idea that backward response compatibility effects represent transient informational influences on central response codes, rather than later postbottleneck response execution processes.
What is the best account to explain the object-based attentional benefit-that is, the spread of attention within an attended object or prioritization of search across possible target locations within an attended object? Using a task in which the location of the target was known with certainty, in the present study we systematically manipulated the type (letters or bites) and the presentation time (long or short) of the target and flankers in order to test the effects of target-object integration and target presentation time on object-based attention. The results showed that an object-based effect could appear when the target was a bite, no matter whether the target presentation time was long or short; but when the target was a letter, an object-based effect was only observed when the target presentation time was short enough. These findings provide additional evidence supporting the argument of attentional spreading in object-based attention. However, this spreading is moderated jointly by target-object integration and the target presentation time.
This study was designed to develop a simple and effective model of tail nerve block without general anaesthesia and surgical incision, to assist in exploring and studying new local anaesthetics. Tail nerves of adult, male Sprague-Dawley rats were blocked by injecting 1% lidocaine and 0.5% bupivacaine, respectively. To evaluate the tail nerve block model, the effects of tail nerve blocks induced by two classical local anaesthetics were assessed and compared by recording disappearance and recovery time of thermal and mechanical nociception. The results showed that thermal and mechanical nociception of the tail disappeared after application of local anaesthetics but were unchanged by normal saline. No abnormal results were found in both the 3-day observation period and the pathological study, and pain thresholds of all rats recovered fully. We have thus developed an easily operated, reliable and reversible model of tail nerve block for conscious rats that can be used to evaluate efficacy, safety and pharmacokinetics of new local anaesthetics and additives.
The antagonism of 5-HT7 receptors may contribute to the antidepressant and procognitive actions of the atypical antipsychotic drug, amisulpride. It has been previously demonstrated that the selective 5-HT7 receptor antagonist reversed restraint stress-induced cognitive impairments in a rat model of frontal-dependent attentional set-shifting task (ASST). Therefore, the first aim of the present study was to assess the effectiveness of amisulpride against stress-evoked cognitive inflexibility. The second goal was to elucidate whether the pro-cognitive effect of amisulpride could be due to the compound's action at 5-HT7 receptors. Rats repeatedly exposed (1 h daily for 7 days) to restraint stress demonstrated impaired performance on the extra-dimensional (ED) set-shifting stage of the ASST. Amisulpride (3 mg/kg) given to stressed rats 30 min before testing reversed this restraint-induced cognitive inflexibility and improved ED performance of the unstressed control group. The 5-HT7 receptor agonist, AS19 (10 mg/kg), abolished the pro-cognitive efficacy of amisulpride (3 mg/kg). The present study suggests that the antagonism of 5-HT7 receptors may contribute to the mechanisms underlining the pro-cognitive action of amisulpride. These results may have therapeutic implications in frontal-like deficits associated with stress-related disorders.
The immediate early gene c-fos and a number of neuropeptides have been widely used to help delineate the neural circuitry of innate fear to predator odors. The present study used in situ hybridization techniques to examine the expression of the immediate early gene transcription factors c-fos and egr-1, and the neuropeptides corticotropin-releasing hormone (crh) and enkephalin (enk) following exposure to the predator odor 2,5-dihydro-2,4,5-trimethylthiazoline (TMT). Rats were exposed to water (H2O), TMT, or the irritating odor butyric acid (BA) and freezing was used to measure fear behavior. Changes in gene expression were analyzed in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST), paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN), and central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA). Animals froze more to TMT than BA and H2O, and more to BA than H2O. Compared to H2O and BA, c-fos and egr-1 were elevated within the BNST, PVN, and CeA in rats exposed to TMT, but not the mPFC. Crh was also elevated in rats exposed to TMT within the CeA and PVN, but not the BNST or mPFC. Enk was elevated within the PVN in TMT and BA exposed rats compared to H2O exposure. These data indicate that exposure to the predator odor TMT induces similar expression patterns for c-fos and egr-1, but different patterns for crh and enk, with partial overlap of the immediate-early genes and neuropeptides within specific brain regions.
&quot;Directed forgetting&quot; is a method and a phenomenon used to investigate whether organisms can control memory with instructions to forget, and to remember. We examined directed forgetting phenomenon in rats, using a modified radial maze task. In the delay-interposed radial maze task, a 120-min delay followed four correct choices, during which rats were placed in either a white or black box, that signaled whether a second-half performance will be required (remember (R)-trial), or not (forget (F)-trial) after the delay. R- and F-trials were repeated 5 times each, followed by a &quot;probe test,&quot; in which the second-half performance was conducted, although the F-cue was presented during the delay period. Rats made more errors in the probe test than in the R-trial. These results demonstrate the &quot;directed forgetting&quot; phenomenon in a radial maze task in rats, and suggest that rats can indeed control previously acquired spatial information, even situations with a long retention interval interposed. Although the mechanism by which presentation of the &quot;forget-cue&quot; influences rats' information processing remains unclear, several brain regions, including the medial prefrontal cortex and the hippocampal CA3 area, were shown to be more activated in the &quot;remember&quot;-cued trial than in the &quot;forget&quot;-cued trial, suggesting that these areas are potentially related to the &quot;directed forgetting&quot; phenomenon of spatial information demonstrated in the study.
Oxysterols possess anti-proliferative properties that may be used with much effect in the treatment of cancer. We have demonstrated previously that 7 beta-hydroxycholesterol (7b-HC) provokes both metabolic stress, as witnessed by AMPK activation, and changes in lipid raft composition in C6 glioblastoma cells. These observations suggested that glycolysis might have been changed. Here we will show that 7b-HC increases cell cycle time and that it changes the affinity of pyruvate kinase to its substrate, phosphoenol pyruvate. The latter effect is mimicked by glutamine withdrawal.
Oxysterols have been shown to interfere with proliferation and cause the death of many cancer cell types, such as leukaemia, glioblastoma, colon, breast and prostate cancer cells, while they have little or no effect on senescent cells. The mechanisms by which oxysterols may influence proliferation are manifold: they control the transcription and the turnover of the key enzyme in cholesterol synthesis, 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl CoA reductase, by binding to Insig-1, Insig-2 and liver X receptors. Oxysterols are thought to be generated in proportion to the rate of cholesterol synthesis. Although there is no consensus about the mechanism by which these oxysterols are generated in vivo, it clearly has to be ubiquitous. The 25- and the 27-cholesterol hydroxylases, present in almost all tissues, are possible candidates. Cholesterol uptake from lipoproteins, intracellular vesicle transport and lipid transfer are also modified by oxysterols. Oxysterols interfere with ERK, hedgehog and wnt pathways of proliferation and differentiation. When administered in vitro to cancer cell lines, oxysterols invariably both slow down proliferation and provoke cell death. Perhaps is it sufficient to stop proliferation of a cancer to provoke its eradication. Therefore, the two facets of oxysterol action that seem important for cancer treatment, cytostaticity and cytotoxicity, will be discussed.
Advantage has been taken of the relative promiscuity of commonly used inhibitors of protein kinase CK2 to develop compounds that can be exploited for the selective inhibition of druggable kinases other than CK2 itself. Here we summarize data obtained by altering the scaffold of CK2 inhibitors to give rise to novel selective inhibitors of DYRK1A and to a powerful cell permeable dual inhibitor of PIM1 and CK2. In the former case one of the new compounds, C624 (naphto [1,2-b]benzofuran-5,9-diol) displays a potency comparable to that of the first-in-class DYRK1A inhibitor, harmine, lacking however the drawback of drastically inhibiting monoamine oxidase-A (MAO-A) as harmine does. On the other hand the promiscuous CK2 inhibitor 4,5,6,7-tetrabromo-1H-benzimidazole (TBI,TBBz) has been derivatized with a sugar moiety to generate a 1-(-D-2'-deoxyribofuranosyl)-4,5,6,7-tetrabromo-1H-benzimidazole (TDB) compound which inhibits PIM1 and CK2 with comparably high efficacy (IC50 values&lt;100nM) and remarkable selectivity. TDB, unlike other dual PIM1/CK2 inhibitors described in the literature is readily cell permeable and displays a cytotoxic effect on cancer cells consistent with concomitant inhibition of both its onco-kinase targets. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Inhibitors of Protein Kinases (2012).
Voltage-gated calcium channels consist of the main pore-forming 1 subunit, together, except in the case of the T-type channels, with  and 2 and sometimes  subunits, which are collectively termed auxiliary or accessory subunits. This review will concentrate on the properties and role of the 2 subunits of these channels. These proteins are largely extracellular, membrane-associated proteins which influence the trafficking, localization, and biophysical properties of the channels. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Calcium channels.
Voltage-gated Ca channels (VGCCs) are voltage sensors that convert membrane depolarizations into Ca signals. In the chromaffin cells of the adrenal medulla, the Ca signals driven by VGCCs regulate catecholamine secretion, vesicle retrievals, action potential shape and firing frequency. Among the VGCC-types expressed in these cells (N-, L-, P/Q-, R- and T-types), the two L-type isoforms, Ca(v)1.2 and Ca(v)1.3, control key activities due to their particular activation-inactivation gating and high-density of expression in rodents and humans. The two isoforms are also effectively modulated by G protein-coupled receptor pathways delimited in membrane micro-domains and by the cAMP/PKA and NO/cGMP/PKG phosphorylation pathways which induce prominent Ca current changes if opposingly regulated. The two L-type isoforms shape the action potential and directly participate to vesicle exocytosis and endocytosis. The low-threshold of activation and slow rate of inactivation of Ca(v)1.3 confer to this channel the unique property of carrying sufficient inward current at subthreshold potentials able to activate BK and SK channels which set the resting potential, the action potential shape, the cell firing mode and the degree of spike frequency adaptation during spontaneous firing or sustained depolarizations. These properties help chromaffin cells to optimally adapt when switching from normal to stress-mimicking conditions. Here, we will review past and recent findings on cAMP- and cGMP-mediated modulations of Ca(v)1.2 and Ca(v)1.3 and the role that these channels play in the control of chromaffin cell firing. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Calcium channels.
Neuronal voltage-gated calcium channels generate rapid, transient intracellular calcium signals in response to membrane depolarization. Neuronal Ca(V) channels regulate a range of cellular functions and are implicated in a variety of neurological and psychiatric diseases including epilepsy, Parkinson's disease, chronic pain, schizophrenia, and bipolar disorder. Each mammalian Cacna1 gene has the potential to generate tens to thousands of Ca(V) channels by alternative pre-mRNA splicing, a process that adds fine granulation to the pool of Ca(V) channel structures and functions. The precise composition of Ca(V) channel splice isoform mRNAs expressed in each cell are controlled by cell-specific splicing factors. The activity of splicing factors are in turn regulated by molecules that encode various cellular features, including cell-type, activity, metabolic states, developmental state, and other factors. The cellular and behavioral consequences of individual sites of Ca(V) splice isoforms are being elucidated, as are the cell-specific splicing factors that control splice isoform selection. Altered patterns of alternative splicing of Ca(V) pre-mRNAs can alter behavior in subtle but measurable ways, with the potential to influence drug efficacy and disease severity. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Calcium channels.

Serum concentrations of environmental pollutants have been positively correlated with diabetes and metabolic syndrome in epidemiologic studies. In turn, abnormal mitochondrial function has been associated with the diseases. The relationships between these variables, however, have not been studied. We developed novel cell-based aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) agonist bioassay system without solvent extraction process and analyzed whether low-dose circulating AhR ligands in human serum are associated with parameters of metabolic syndrome and mitochondrial function. Serum AhR ligand activities were measured as serum 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin equivalent (sTCDDeq) in pM using 10 L human sera from 97 Korean participants (47 with glucose intolerance and 50 matched controls, average age of 46.6  9.9 years, 53 male and 45 female). sTCDDeq were higher in participants with glucose intolerance than normal controls and were positively associated (P &lt; 0.01) with obesity, blood pressure, serum triglyceride, and fasting glucose, but not with HDL-cholesterol. Body mass index was in a positive linear relationship with serum AhR ligands in healthy participants. When myoblast cells were incubated with human sera, ATP generating power of mitochondria became impaired in an AhR ligand concentration-dependent manner. Our results support that circulating AhR ligands may directly reduce mitochondrial function in tissues, leading to weight gain, glucose intolerance, and metabolic syndrome. Our rapid cell-based assay using minute volume of human serum may provide one of the best monitoring systems for circulating AhR ligands, good clinical biomarkers for the progress of disease and therapeutic efficacy.

Although a variety of nanoparticles (NPs) functionalized with amphotericin B, an antifungal agent widely used in the clinic, have been studied in the last years their cytotoxicity profile remains elusive. Here we show that human endothelial cells take up high amounts of silica nanoparticles (SNPs) conjugated with amphotericin B (AmB) (SNP-AmB) (65.4  12.4 pg of Si per cell) through macropinocytosis while human fibroblasts internalize relatively low amounts (2.3  0.4 pg of Si per cell) because of their low capacity for macropinocytosis. We further show that concentrations of SNP-AmB and SNP up to 400 g/mL do not substantially affect fibroblasts. In contrast, endothelial cells are sensitive to low concentrations of NPs (above 10 g/mL), in particular to SNP-AmB. This is because of their capacity to internalize high concentration of NPs and high sensitivity of their membrane to the effects of AmB. Low-moderate concentrations of SNP-AmB (up to 100 g/mL) induce the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS), LDH release, high expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines and chemokines (IL-8, IL-6, G-CSF, CCL4, IL-1 and CSF2) and high expression of heat shock proteins (HSPs) at gene and protein levels. High concentrations of SNP-AmB (above 100 g/mL) disturb membrane integrity and kill rapidly human cells (60% after 5 h). This effect is higher in SNP-AmB than in SNP.
Development of SAR in an N-acyl-N'-arylpiperazine series of negative allosteric modulators of mGlu1 using a functional cell-based assay is described in this Letter. Characterization of selected compounds in protein binding assays was used to aid in selecting VU0469650 for further profiling in ancillary pharmacology assays and pharmacokinetic studies. VU0469650 demonstrated an excellent selectivity profile and good exposure in both plasma and brain samples following intraperitoneal dosing in rats.
Factor VIII (FVIII) is the blood coagulation protein which when defective or deficient causes for hemophilia A, a severe hereditary bleeding disorder. Activated FVIII (FVIIIa) is the cofactor to the serine protease factor IXa (FIXa) within the membrane-bound Tenase complex, responsible for amplifying its proteolytic activity more than 100,000 times, necessary for normal clot formation. FVIII is composed of two noncovalently linked peptide chains: a light chain (LC) holding the membrane interaction sites and a heavy chain (HC) holding the main FIXa interaction sites. The interplay between the light and heavy chains (HCs) in the membrane-bound state is critical for the biological efficiency of FVIII. Here, we present our cryo-electron microscopy (EM) and structure analysis studies of human FVIII-LC, when helically assembled onto negatively charged single lipid bilayer nanotubes. The resolved FVIII-LC membrane-bound structure supports aspects of our previously proposed FVIII structure from membrane-bound two-dimensional (2D) crystals, such as only the C2 domain interacts directly with the membrane. The LC is oriented differently in the FVIII membrane-bound helical and 2D crystal structures based on EM data, and the existing X-ray structures. This flexibility of the FVIII-LC domain organization in different states is discussed in the light of the FVIIIa-FIXa complex assembly and function.  2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Biopolymers 99: 448-459, 2013.
Cori Bargmann's studies of olfaction and her work on the connections between neural circuits, genes, and behavior caught our attention. Curious to know more, BioTechniques contacted her to find out about the ambition, character, and motivation that led to her success.
The process of systematic review has shone a light on the methodology of randomized controlled trials. Notably, a range of potential biases hinders the interpretation of chronic pain trials. These include a consistent bias favouring active over placebo in trials that are small and of short duration. The use of the 'last observation carried forward' imputation method is known to inflate results, often generating statistically significance when adverse event withdrawals are high; in clinical practice terms, this is the wrong answer. Patients want outcomes of low pain scores, large reductions in pain and relief from associated symptoms, with improvements in ability to function and in quality of life. Some patients achieve this, but many do not. The distribution of benefit is skewed and the use of average pain scores, or change in pain, can be misleading compared with responder analysis in which withdrawal is regarded as non-response. Historically, chronic pain trials have had a simple classic or a crossover design. They have been small and short, and used inappropriate imputation and outcomes unconnected to the experiences of most patients. While these designs are useful for answering some questions, they may be insensitive for many interventions. Newer designs, like enriched enrolment randomized withdrawal (EERW) trials or clinical effectiveness trials, are potentially more interesting and informative.
Understanding the neurochemical basis for cognitive function is one of the major goals of neuroscience, with a potential impact on the diagnosis, prevention and treatment of a range of psychiatric and neurological disorders. In this review, the focus will be on a biochemical pathway that remains under-recognized in its implications for brain function, even though it can be responsible for moderating the activity of two neurotransmitters fundamentally involved in cognition - glutamate and acetylcholine. Since this pathway - the kynurenine pathway of tryptophan metabolism - is induced by immunological activation and stress, it also stands in a unique position to mediate the effects of environmental factors on cognition and behaviour. Targeting the pathway for new drug development could, therefore, be of value not only for the treatment of existing psychiatric conditions, but also for preventing the development of cognitive disorders in response to environmental pressures.
Degenerative dementia is mainly caused by Alzheimer's disease and/or cerebrovascular abnormalities. Disturbance of the intracellular calcium homeostasis is central to the pathophysiology of neurodegeneration. In Alzheimer's disease, enhanced calcium load may be brought about by extracellular accumulation of amyloid-. Recent studies suggest that soluble forms facilitate influx through calcium-conducting ion channels in the plasma membrane, leading to excitotoxic neurodegeneration. Calcium channel blockade attenuates amyloid--induced neuronal decline in vitro and is neuroprotective in animal models. Vascular dementia, on the other hand, is caused by cerebral hypoperfusion and may benefit from calcium channel blockade due to relaxation of the cerebral vasculature. Several calcium channel blockers have been tested in clinical trials of dementia and the outcome is heterogeneous. Nimodipine as well as nilvadipine prevent cognitive decline in some trials, whereas other calcium channel blockers failed. In trials with a positive outcome, BP reduction did not seem to play a role in preventing dementia, indicating a direct protecting effect on neurons. An optimization of calcium channel blockers for the treatment of dementia may involve an increase of selectivity for presynaptic calcium channels and an improvement of the affinity to the inactivated state. Novel low molecular weight compounds suitable for proof-of-concept studies are now available.




Neuregulin 1 acts as an axonal signal that regulates multiple aspects of Schwann cell development including the survival and migration of Schwann cell precursors, the ensheathment of axons and subsequent elaboration of the myelin sheath. To examine the role of this factor in remyelination and repair following nerve injury, we ablated neuregulin 1 in the adult nervous system using a tamoxifen inducible Cre recombinase transgenic mouse system. The loss of neuregulin 1 impaired remyelination after nerve crush, but did not affect Schwann cell proliferation associated with Wallerian degeneration or axon regeneration or the clearance of myelin debris by macrophages. Myelination changes were most marked at 10 days after injury but still apparent at 2 months post-crush. Transcriptional analysis demonstrated reduced expression of myelin-related genes during nerve repair in animals lacking neuregulin 1. We also studied repair over a prolonged time course in a more severe injury model, sciatic nerve transection and reanastamosis. In the neuregulin 1 mutant mice, remyelination was again impaired 2 months after nerve transection and reanastamosis. However, by 3 months post-injury axons lacking neuregulin 1 were effectively remyelinated and virtually indistinguishable from control. Neuregulin 1 signalling is therefore an important factor in nerve repair regulating the rate of remyelination and functional recovery at early phases following injury. In contrast to development, however, the determination of myelination fate following nerve injury is not dependent on axonal neuregulin 1 expression. In the early phase following injury, axonal neuregulin 1 therefore promotes nerve repair, but at late stages other signalling pathways appear to compensate.
Machado-Joseph disease or spinocerebellar ataxia type 3, the most common dominantly-inherited spinocerebellar ataxia, results from translation of the polyglutamine-expanded and aggregation prone ataxin 3 protein. Clinical manifestations include cerebellar ataxia and pyramidal signs and there is no therapy to delay disease progression. Beclin 1, an autophagy-related protein and essential gene for cell survival, is decreased in several neurodegenerative disorders. This study aimed at evaluating if lentiviral-mediated beclin 1 overexpression would rescue motor and neuropathological impairments when administered to pre- and post-symptomatic lentiviral-based and transgenic mouse models of Machado-Joseph disease. Beclin 1-mediated significant improvements in motor coordination, balance and gait with beclin 1-treated mice equilibrating longer periods in the Rotarod and presenting longer and narrower footprints. Furthermore, in agreement with the improvements observed in motor function beclin 1 overexpression prevented neuronal dysfunction and neurodegeneration, decreasing formation of polyglutamine-expanded aggregates, preserving Purkinje cell arborization and immunoreactivity for neuronal markers. These data show that overexpression of beclin 1 in the mouse cerebellum is able to rescue and hinder the progression of motor deficits when administered to pre- and post-symptomatic stages of the disease.
Deficits in sleep and circadian organization have been identified as common early features in patients with Huntington's disease that correlate with symptom severity and may be instrumental in disease progression. Studies in Huntington's disease gene carriers suggest that alterations in the electroencephalogram may reflect underlying neuronal dysfunction that is present in the premanifest stage. We conducted a longitudinal characterization of sleep/wake and electroencephalographic activity in the R6/2 mouse model of Huntington's disease to determine whether analogous electroencephalographic 'signatures' could be identified early in disease progression. R6/2 and wild-type mice were implanted for electroencephalographic recordings along with telemetry for the continuous recording of activity and body temperature. Diurnal patterns of activity and core body temperature were progressively disrupted in R6/2 mice, with a large reduction in the amplitude of these rhythms apparent by 13 weeks of age. The diurnal variation in sleep/wake states was gradually attenuated as sleep became more fragmented and total sleep time was reduced relative to wild-type mice. These genotypic differences were augmented at 17 weeks and evident across the entire 24-h period. Quantitative electroencephalogram analysis revealed anomalous increases in high beta and gamma activity (25-60 Hz) in all sleep/wake states in R6/2 mice, along with increases in theta activity during both non-rapid eye movement and rapid eye movement sleep and a reduction of delta power in non-rapid eye movement sleep. These dramatic alterations in quantitative electroencephalographic measures were apparent from our earliest recording (9 weeks), before any major differences in diurnal physiology or sleep/wake behaviour occurred. In addition, the homeostatic response to sleep deprivation was greatly attenuated with disease progression. These findings demonstrate the sensitivity of quantitative electroencephalographic analysis to identify early pathophysiological alterations in the R6/2 model of Huntington's disease and suggest longitudinal studies in other preclinical Huntington's disease models are needed to determine the generality of these observations as a potential adjunct in therapeutic development.
Sleep disturbances in Huntington's disease may be deleterious to the cognitive performance, affective behaviour, and general well-being of patients, but a comprehensive description of the progression of changes in sleep and electroencephalogram in Huntington's disease has never been conducted. Here we studied sleep and electroencephalogram disturbances in a transgenic mouse model of Huntington's disease (R6/2 mice). We implanted 10 R6/2 mice and five wild-type littermates with electromyography electrodes, frontofrontal and frontoparietal electroencephalogram electrodes and then recorded sleep/wake behaviour at presymptomatic, symptomatic and late stages of the disease. In addition to sleep-wake scoring, we performed a spectral analysis of the sleep electroencephalogram. We found that sleep and electroencephalogram were already significantly disrupted in R6/2 mice at 9 weeks of age (presymptomatic stage). By the time they were symptomatic, R6/2 mice were unable to maintain long periods of wakefulness and had an increased propensity for rapid eye movement sleep. In addition, the peak frequency of theta rhythm was shifted progressively from 7 Hz to 6 Hz during rapid eye movement sleep, whereas slow wave activity decreased gradually during non-rapid eye movement sleep. Finally, as the disease progressed, an abnormal electroencephalogram gamma activity (30-40 Hz) emerged in R6/2 mice irrespective of sleep states. This is reminiscent of the increased gamma power described in schizophrenic patients during sleep and events of psychosis. Gaining a better understanding of sleep and electroencephalogram changes in patients with Huntington's disease should be a priority, since it will enable clinicians to initiate appropriate investigations and to instigate treatments that could dramatically improve patients' quality of life.
Dystonia is a common movement disorder seen by neurologists in clinic. Genetic forms of the disease are important to recognize clinically and also provide valuable information about possible pathogenic mechanisms within the wider disorder. In the past few years, with the advent of new sequencing technologies, there has been a step change in the pace of discovery in the field of dystonia genetics. In just over a year, four new genes have been shown to cause primary dystonia (CIZ1, ANO3, TUBB4A and GNAL), PRRT2 has been identified as the cause of paroxysmal kinesigenic dystonia and other genes, such as SLC30A10 and ATP1A3, have been linked to more complicated forms of dystonia or new phenotypes. In this review, we provide an overview of the current state of knowledge regarding genetic forms of dystonia-related to both new and well-known genes alike-and incorporating genetic, clinical and molecular information. We discuss the mechanistic insights provided by the study of the genetic causes of dystonia and provide a helpful clinical algorithm to aid clinicians in correctly predicting the genetic basis of various forms of dystonia.
Primary dystonia is thought to be a disorder of the basal ganglia because the symptoms resemble those of patients who have anatomical lesions in the same regions of the brain (secondary dystonia). However, these two groups of patients respond differently to therapy suggesting differences in pathophysiological mechanisms. Pathophysiological deficits in primary dystonia are well characterized and include reduced inhibition at many levels of the motor system and increased plasticity, while emerging evidence suggests additional cerebellar deficits. We compared electrophysiological features of primary and secondary dystonia, using transcranial magnetic stimulation of motor cortex and eye blink classical conditioning paradigm, to test whether dystonia symptoms share the same underlying mechanism. Eleven patients with hemidystonia caused by basal ganglia or thalamic lesions were tested over both hemispheres, corresponding to affected and non-affected side and compared with 10 patients with primary segmental dystonia with arm involvement and 10 healthy participants of similar age. We measured resting motor threshold, active motor threshold, input/output curve, short interval intracortical inhibition and cortical silent period. Plasticity was probed using an excitatory paired associative stimulation protocol. In secondary dystonia cerebellar-dependent conditioning was measured using delayed eye blink classical conditioning paradigm and results were compared with the data of patients with primary dystonia obtained previously. We found no difference in motor thresholds, input/output curves or cortical silent period between patients with secondary and primary dystonia or healthy controls. In secondary dystonia short interval intracortical inhibition was reduced on the affected side, whereas it was normal on the non-affected side. Patients with secondary dystonia had a normal response to the plasticity protocol on both the affected and non-affected side and normal eye blink classical conditioning that was not different from healthy participants. In contrast, patients with primary dystonia showed increased cortical plasticity and reduced eye blink classical conditioning. Normal motor cortex plasticity in secondary dystonia demonstrates that abnormally enhanced cortical plasticity is not required for clinical expression of dystonia, and normal eye blink conditioning suggests an absence of functional cerebellar involvement in this form of dystonia. Reduced short interval intracortical inhibition on the side of the lesion may result from abnormal basal ganglia output or may be a consequence of maintaining an abnormal dystonic posture. Dystonia appears to be a motor symptom that can reflect different pathophysiological states triggered by a variety of insults.
-Synuclein levels are critical to Parkinson's disease pathogenesis. Wild-type -synuclein is degraded partly by chaperone-mediated autophagy, and aberrant -synuclein may act as an inhibitor of the pathway. To address whether the induction of chaperone-mediated autophagy may represent a potential therapy against -synuclein-induced neurotoxicity, we overexpressed lysosomal-associated membrane protein 2a, the rate-limiting step of chaperone-mediated autophagy, in human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells, rat primary cortical neurons in vitro, and nigral dopaminergic neurons in vivo. Overexpression of the lysosomal-associated membrane protein 2a in cellular systems led to upregulation of chaperone-mediated autophagy, decreased -synuclein turnover, and selective protection against adenoviral-mediated wild-type -synuclein neurotoxicity. Protection was observed even when the steady-state levels of -synuclein were unchanged, suggesting that it occurred through the attenuation of -synuclein-mediated dysfunction of chaperone-mediated autophagy. Overexpression of the lysosomal receptor through the nigral injection of recombinant adeno-associated virus vectors effectively ameliorated -synuclein-induced dopaminergic neurodegeneration by increasing the survival of neurons located in the substantia nigra as well as the axon terminals located in the striatum, which was associated with a reduction in total -synuclein levels and related aberrant species. We conclude that induction of chaperone-mediated autophagy may provide a novel therapeutic strategy in Parkinson's disease and related synucleinopathies through two different mechanisms: amelioration of dysfunction of chaperone-mediated autophagy and lowering of -synuclein levels.
The number of Schwann cells is fitted to axonal length in peripheral nerves. This relationship is lost when tumorigenic stimuli induce uncontrolled Schwann cell proliferation, generating tumours such us neurofibromas and schwannomas. Schwann cells also re-enter the cell cycle following nerve injury during the process of Wallerian degeneration. In both cases proliferation is finally arrested. We show that in neurofibroma, the induction of Jmjd3 (jumonji domain containing 3, histone lysine demethylase) removes trimethyl groups on lysine-27 of histone-H3 and epigenetically activates the Ink4a/Arf-locus, forcing Schwann cells towards replicative senescence. Remarkably, blocking this mechanism allows unrestricted proliferation, inducing malignant transformation of neurofibromas. Interestingly, our data suggest that in injured nerves, Schwann cells epigenetically activate the same locus to switch off proliferation and enter the senescence programme. Indeed, when this pathway is genetically blocked, Schwann cells fail to drop out of the cell cycle and continue to proliferate. We postulate that the Ink4a/Arf-locus is expressed as part of a physiological response that prevents uncontrolled proliferation of the de-differentiated Schwann cell generated during nerve regeneration, a response that is also activated to avoid overproliferation after tumorigenic stimuli in the peripheral nervous system.
Although magnetic resonance imaging is a standard investigation in neurodegenerative disease, sensitive and specific markers for the underlying histopathological diagnosis are largely lacking. This report presents evidence to indicate that corticobasal degeneration and progressive supranuclear palsy, in particular, might be identifiable at a single subject level with diffusion tensor imaging. Patients with clinical diagnoses of Alzheimer's disease, semantic dementia and non-fluent primary progressive aphasia (n = 9 each) were contrasted with control subjects (n = 26) with the diffusion tensor imaging measures: fractional anisotropy, axial and radial diffusivity. At 1 year follow-up, all participants with non-fluent primary progressive aphasia had evolved either corticobasal degeneration (n = 5) or progressive supranuclear palsy (n = 4). The corticobasal degeneration/progressive supranuclear palsy set showed white matter abnormalities involving the entire cerebrum. Individual maps were similar to the group level results, even in the most minimally impaired patients. Fractional anisotropy was consistently the most sensitive metric. In Alzheimer's disease and semantic dementia, by contrast, group level and individual analyses revealed limited areas of abnormality centred on the posterior cingulate and rostral temporal lobes, respectively. In both groups radial diffusivity was the most sensitive metric. Scrutiny of the standard scores for each group's most sensitive metric revealed that, although the values for every patient with corticobasal degeneration or progressive supranuclear palsy fell outside 95% of the normal mean, none of the other two groups' members had values outside this range. Further underscoring the hypothesis that this finding relates specifically to a diffuse pathological process in the white matter of the tauopathies, and is not merely a function of disease severity, a grey matter analysis consisting of group level voxel-based morphometry revealed only focal areas of atrophy in all three groups. Consistent with past reports for the respective clinical syndromes, these were centred on the left frontal operculum and caudate nucleus in non-fluent primary progressive aphasia (the corticobasal degeneration/progressive supranuclear palsy set), anterior temporal lobes in semantic dementia, and hippocampus and posterior cingulate gyrus in Alzheimer's disease. Detection of this extensive white matter lesion in corticobasal degeneration and progressive supranuclear palsy-a pathologically proven feature of these conditions--in single subjects with diffusion tensor imaging appears to have strong diagnostic marker potential for these diseases.
The voxel-based morphometry (VBM) technique using brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) objectively maps gray matter loss on a voxel-by-voxel basis after anatomic standardization. In patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD), reductions of gray matter volume, mainly in the medial temporal structures, have been reported; however, inhomogeneity and geometric distortion of the field intensity hampers the reproducibility of MRI. In the present study, we developed a novel computed tomography (CT)-based VBM method and used this technique to detect volume loss in AD patients as compared with normal controls. The results were compared with MRI-based VBM using the same subjects. Pittsburgh Compound B ((11)C-PIB) positron emission tomography (PET)/CT was performed and two experts in neuro-nuclear medicine judged whether regional amyloid  load was consistent with a diagnosis of AD. Before the injection of (11)C-PIB, high-quality CT scans were obtained using the same PET/CT equipment. MRI was performed within a mean interval of 25.1  8.2 days before the PET/CT scan. Using statistical parametric mapping 8 (SPM8), the extracted gray matter images from CT and MRI were spatially normalized using a gray matter template and smoothed using a Gaussian kernel. Group comparisons were performed using SPM8 between five (11)C-PIB-positive patients with probable AD and seven (11)C-PIB-negative age-matched controls with normal cognition. Gray matter volumes in the bilateral medial temporal areas were reduced in the AD group as compared with the cognitively normal group in both CT-based VBM (in the left; P &lt; 0.0001, cluster size 2776 and in the right; P &lt; 0.0001, cluster size 630) and MRI-based VBM (in the left; P &lt; 0.0001, cluster size 381 and in the right, P &lt; 0.0001, cluster size 421). This newly developed CT-based VBM technique can detect significant atrophy in the entorhinal cortex in probable AD patients as previously reported using MRI-based VBM. However, CT-VBM was more sensitive and revealed larger areas of significant atrophy than MR-VBM.
Pathological events are well characterized in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) mouse models, but review of the literature fails to identify a specific initiating event that precipitates disease pathology. There is now growing consensus in the field that axon and synapses are first cellular sites of degeneration, but controversy exists over whether axon and synapse loss is initiated autonomously at those sites or by pathology in the cell body, in nonneuronal cells or even in nonmotoneurons (MNs). Previous studies have identified pathological events in the mutant superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) models involving spinal cord, peripheral axons, neuromuscular junctions (NMJs), or muscle; however, few studies have systematically examined pathogenesis at multiple sites in the same study. We have performed ultrastructural examination of both central and peripheral components of the neuromuscular system in the SOD1(G93A) mouse model of ALS. Twenty percent of MNs undergo degeneration by P60, but NMJ innervation in fast fatigable muscles is reduced by 40% by P30. Gait alterations and muscle weakness were also found at P30. There was no change in axonal transport prior to initial NMJ denervation. Mitochondrial morphological changes are observed at P7 and become more prominent with disease progression. At P30 there was a significant decrease in excitatory axo-dendritic and axo-somatic synapses with an increase in C-type axo-somatic synapses. Our study examined early pathology in both peripheral and central neuromuscular system. The muscle denervation is associated with functional motor deficits and begins during the first postnatal month in SOD1(G93A) mice. Physiological dysfunction and pathology in the mitochondria of synapses and MN soma and dendrites occur, and disease onset in these animals begins more than 2 months earlier than originally thought. This information may be valuable for designing preclinical trials that are more likely to impact disease onset and progression.
This study examined the effects of linguistic task demands on the neuroanatomical localization of the neural response related to automatic semantic processing of concrete German nouns combining the associative priming paradigm with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). To clarify the functional role of the inferior frontal gyrus (IFG) for semantic processing with respect to semantic decision making compared to semantic processing per se, we used a linguistic task that involved either a binary decision process (i.e., semantic categorization; Experiment 1) or not (i.e., silently thinking about a word's meaning; Experiment 2). We observed associative priming effects indicated as neural suppression in bilateral superior temporal gyri (STG), anterior cingulate cortex (ACC), occipito-temporal brain areas, and in medial frontal brain areas independently of the linguistic task. Inferior parietal brain areas were more active for silently thinking about a word's meaning compared to semantic categorization. A conjunction analysis of linguistic task revealed that both tasks activated the same left-lateralized occipito-temporo-frontal network including the IFG. Contrasting neural associative priming effects across linguistic task demands, we found a significant interaction in the right IFG. The present fMRI data give rise to the assumption that activation of the left inferior frontal gyrus (LIFG) in the semantic domain might be important for semantic processing in general and not only for semantic decision making. These findings contrast with a recent study regarding the role of the LIFG for binary decision making in the lexical domain (Wright et al. 2011).
Charcot first described amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) in 1869; however, its causes remain largely unknown and effective, long-term treatment strategies are not available. The first mouse model of ALS was developed after the identification of mutations in the superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) gene in 1993, and accordingly most of our knowledge of the etiology and pathogenesis of the disease comes from studies carried out using this animal model. Although numerous preclinical trials have been conducted in the mutant SOD1 mouse models, the results have been disappointing because they did not positively translate to clinical trials. One explanation may be that current understanding of when and where pathogenesis begins is insufficient to accurately guide preclinical trials. Further characterization of these early events may provide insight into disease onset, help in the discovery of presymptomatic diagnostic disease markers, and identify novel therapeutic targets. Here, we describe the rationale, approach, and methods for our extensive analysis of early changes that included an ultrastructural examination of central and peripheral components of the neuromuscular system in the SOD1(G93A) mouse and correlated these alterations with early muscle denervation, motor dysfunction, and motoneuron death. We also provide a discussion of published work to review what is known regarding early pathology in the SOD1 mouse model of ALS. The significance of this work is that we have examined early pathology simultaneously in both the spinal cord and peripheral neuromuscular system, and the results are presented in the companion paper (Part II, Results and Discussion). Our results provide evidence as to why a thorough characterization of animal models throughout the life span is critical for a strong foundation to design preclinical trials that may produce meaningful results.
Copolymer (Cop)-1, also known as glatiramer acetate, is an active compound of Copaxone, a drug widely used by patients with multiple sclerosis (MS). Copaxone functions in MS through two mechanisms of action, namely immunomodulation and neuroprotection. Because the immune system is suppressed or altered in depressed individuals, and since depression is often associated with neurological conditions, we were interested in examining whether the neuroprotective effect of Copaxone persists under conditions of stress-induced depressive behavior. We exposed mice to unpredictable chronic mild stress for 4 weeks and then treated them with three doses of Copaxone at 3-day intervals, with the last dose given immediately before the mice underwent a crush injury to the optic nerve. Whereas nonstressed mice exhibited a strong neuroprotective response after Copaxone treatment, this effect was completely absent in mice that underwent chronic mild stress. Interestingly, when Copaxone was combined with Prozac, the neuroprotective effect of Copaxone was regained, suggesting that chronic mild stress interferes with the neuroprotective effect of Copaxone. These results may shed a light on mechanism of action of Copaxone and lead to new combined therapies for neurodegenerative and neuroinflammatory disorders.
An impaired ability to regulate the activation of microglia by fractalkine (CX3CL1) leads to persistent neuroinflammation and behavioral alterations following lipopolysaccharide (LPS) challenge. While these responses are usually transient, LPS injection caused prolonged depressive-like behavior in fractalkine receptor deficient mice (CX3CR1(-/-)) that was associated with exaggerated microglial activation and induction of the tryptophan (TRP) degrading enzyme indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase (IDO). IDO activation and subsequent generation of neuroactive kynurenine metabolites may have a pivotal role in the development of depression. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to determine the extent to which LPS-induced depressive-like behavior in CX3CR1(-/-) mice was dependent on IDO activation. CX3CR1(-/-) mice were implanted prior to LPS challenge with a slow release pellet of 1-methyl-tryptophan (1-MT), a competitive inhibitor of IDO. Here we show that the depressive-like behavior evident in CX3CR1(-/-) mice 72 h after LPS injection was abrogated by inhibition of IDO. LPS also decreased body weight and locomotor activity in CX3CR1(-/-) mice, but these effects were independent of 1-MT. Consistent with the increased metabolism of TRP by IDO, the ratio of 3-hydroxykynurenine (3-HK) to TRP was increased in the brain 72 h after LPS. Increased serotonin (5-HT) turnover was also evident in the brain. The LPS-associated increases in both 3-HK:TRP and 5-HIAA:5-HT ratios were prevented by the inhibition of IDO. Last, IDO blockade attenuated microglial activation in the prefrontal cortex and hippocampus 72 h after LPS. Collectively these data indicate that LPS-induced IDO activation contributes to persistent microglial activation and depressive-like behavior in CX3CR1(-/-) mice.
A role for pro-inflammatory cytokines and their neuroinflammatory signaling cascades in depressive pathology has increasingly gained acceptance. In this regard, several lines of evidence suggested that interleukin-1 (IL-1) and tumor necrosis factor- (TNF-) can provoke neurochemical and hormonal changes akin to those associated with psychological stressors, and that these cytokines also induce sickness behaviors that resemble some of the neurovegetative features of depression. Similarly, human depressed patients often display marked changes of pro-inflammatory cytokine levels and immune cell activity. Perhaps more germane in the analysis of the cytokine-depression connection, reports of humans undergoing interferon- (IFN-) treatment for certain cancers or viral infections have indicated that the pro-inflammatory cytokine caused signs of major depression in a substantial subset of those treated. In the present investigation, we demonstrated that acute or repeated infusion of IFN- into the lateral ventricles provoked depressive-like behavior and concomitant changes in serotonin (5-HT) and mRNA expression of particular 5-HT receptors and pro-inflammatory cytokines. These actions were less evident following administration directly into the prefrontal cortex and not apparent at all when administered to the dorsal raphe nucleus. The data are discussed in relation to the induction of depression elicited by IFN-, and are presented in the context of a mini-review that highlights potential mechanisms through which the cytokine might act to promote psychomotor and affective disturbances and interact with stressors.
Maternal infection is a risk factor for autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and schizophrenia (SZ). Indeed, modeling this risk factor in mice through maternal immune activation (MIA) causes ASD- and SZ-like neuropathologies and behaviors in the offspring. Although MIA upregulates pro-inflammatory cytokines in the fetal brain, whether MIA leads to long-lasting changes in brain cytokines during postnatal development remains unknown. Here, we tested this possibility by measuring protein levels of 23 cytokines in the blood and three brain regions from offspring of poly(I:C)- and saline-injected mice at five postnatal ages using multiplex arrays. Most cytokines examined are present in sera and brains throughout development. MIA induces changes in the levels of many cytokines in the brains and sera of offspring in a region- and age-specific manner. These MIA-induced changes follow a few, unexpected and distinct patterns. In frontal and cingulate cortices, several, mostly pro-inflammatory, cytokines are elevated at birth, followed by decreases during periods of synaptogenesis and plasticity, and increases again in the adult. Cytokines are also altered in postnatal hippocampus, but in a pattern distinct from the other regions. The MIA-induced changes in brain cytokines do not correlate with changes in serum cytokines from the same animals. Finally, these MIA-induced cytokine changes are not accompanied by breaches in the blood-brain barrier, immune cell infiltration or increases in microglial density. Together, these data indicate that MIA leads to long-lasting, region-specific changes in brain cytokines in offspring-similar to those reported for ASD and SZ-that may alter CNS development and behavior.
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is often associated with a detail-oriented perception and overselective attention in visual tasks, such as visual search and crowding. These results were obtained manipulating exclusively the spatial properties of the stimuli: few is known about the spatio-temporal dynamics of visual processing in ASD. In this study we employed an attentional masking (AM) paradigm comparing children with ASD and IQ-matched typically developing (TD) controls. The AM effect refers to an impaired identification of a target followed by a competitive masking object at different proximities in space and time. We found that ASD and TD groups did not differ in the AM effect provoked by the competitive object displayed in the same position of the target. In contrast, children with ASD showed a deeper and prolonged interference than the TD group when the masking object was displayed in the lateral position. These psychophysical results suggest that the inefficient attentional selection in ASD depends on the spatio-temporal interaction between competitive visual objects. These evidence are discussed in the light of the ASD altered neural connectivity hypothesis and the reentrant theory of perception.
Recent reports have implicated tau-tubulin kinase 1 (TTBK1) in the pathological phosphorylation of tau that occurs in Alzheimer's disease (AD). The present study was undertaken to provide an extensive characterization of TTBK1mRNA and protein expression in human brain from AD cases and non-demented controls so as to better understand the disease relevance of this novel kinase. In situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry revealed abundant expression of TTBK1 in the somatodendritic compartment of cortical and hippocampal neurons of both AD cases and controls. TTBK1 immunoreactivity appeared to vary with the level of phospho-tau staining, and was strong in the somatodendritic compartment of apparently healthy hippocampal neurons as well as in pre-tangle neurons where it co-localized with diffuse phospho-Ser422 tau staining. Ser422 was confirmed as a TTBK1 substrate in vitro, and an antibody towards the site, in addition to labeling AT8-positive neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs), neuritic plaques and neuropil threads, also labeled a small population of neurons that were unlabeled with AT8. These data suggest a role for TTBK1 in pre-tangle formation prior to the formation of fibrillar tau and strengthen the idea that tau is phosphorylated at Ser422 at an early/intermediate stage in NFT formation.


A new and weak memory trace undergoes consolidation to gain resistance against interfering stimuli. When an encoded memory is recalled, it becomes labile and another round of consolidation, or reconsolidation, is required to restore its stability. Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) is a non-invasive method of altering cortical excitability. The aim of this study was to examine the effects of tDCS on the reconsolidation of long-term verbal memory. Participants (n=15) memorized words in the encoding session, then reactivated the memory of the words 3h later using an old-new recognition task under anodal, cathodal and sham stimulation to the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC). Finally, after another 5h, they performed another round of the old-new recognition task and rated their confidence. Anodal tDCS during the second session resulted in significantly more words recognized in the third session as compared to cathodal and sham stimulation. Cathodal tDCS did not affect the recognition performance compared to sham stimulation. These results cannot be attributed to differences in response times and confidence ratings, as they were comparable in all conditions. In order to study whether the activation of a memory was crucial for the enhancing effects of anodal tDCS, a group of controls (n=15) did not perform the recognition task in the second session but still underwent stimulation. Contrary to the main group, anodal stimulation did not enhance the memory performance for the control group. This result suggests that anodal tDCS over the left DLPFC can enhance the reconsolidation of long-term memory only when the memory has been reactivated.
Subject-specific four-layer boundary element method (BEM) electrical forward head models for four participants, generated from magnetic resonance (MR) head images using NFT ( www.sccn.ucsd.edu/wiki/NFT ), were used to simulate electroencephalographic (EEG) scalp potentials at 256 recorded electrode positions produced by single current dipoles of a 3-D grid in brain space. Locations of these dipoles were then estimated using gradient descent within five template head models fit to the electrode positions. These were: a spherical model, three-layer and four-layer BEM head models based on the Montreal Neurological Institute (MNI) template head image, and these BEM models warped to the recorded electrode positions. Smallest localization errors (4.1-6.2mm, medians) were obtained using the electrode-position warped four-layer BEM models, with largest localization errors (~20mm) for most basal brain locations. When we increased the brain-to-skull conductivity ratio assumed in the template model scalp projections from the simulated value (25:1) to a higher value (80:1) used in earlier studies, the estimated dipole locations moved outwards (12.4mm, median). We also investigated the effects of errors in co-registering the electrode positions, of reducing electrode counts, and of adding a fifth, isotropic white matter layer to one individual head model. Results show that when individual subject MR head images are not available to construct subject-specific head models, accurate EEG source localization should employ a four- or five-layer BEM template head model incorporating an accurate skull conductivity estimate and warped to 64 or more accurately 3-D measured and co-registered electrode positions.
A key question in neuroscience is how memory is selectively allocated to neural networks in the brain. This question remains a significant research challenge, in both rodent models and humans alike, because of the inherent difficulty in tracking and deciphering large, highly dimensional neuronal ensembles that support memory (i.e., the engram). In a previous study we showed that consolidation of a new fear memory is allocated to a common topography of amygdala neurons. When a consolidated memory is retrieved, it may enter a labile state, requiring reconsolidation for it to persist. What is not known is whether the original spatial allocation of a consolidated memory changes during reconsolidation. Knowledge about the spatial allocation of a memory, during consolidation and reconsolidation, provides fundamental insight into its core physical structure (i.e., the engram). Using design-based stereology, we operationally define reconsolidation by showing a nearly identical quantity of neurons in the dorsolateral amygdala (LAd) that expressed a plasticity-related protein, phosphorylated mitogen-activated protein kinase, following both memory acquisition and retrieval. Next, we confirm that Pavlovian fear conditioning recruits a stable, topographically organized population of activated neurons in the LAd. When the stored fear memory was briefly reactivated in the presence of the relevant conditioned stimulus, a similar topography of activated neurons was uncovered. In addition, we found evidence for activated neurons allocated to new regions of the LAd. These findings provide the first insight into the spatial allocation of a fear engram in the LAd, during its consolidation and reconsolidation phase.
Impulsivity is a complex behaviour composed of different domains encompassing behavioural dis-inhibition, risky decision-making and delay discounting abnormalities. To investigate regional brain correlates between levels of individual impulsivity and grey matter volume, we performed voxel-based morphometric correlation analysis in 34 young, healthy subjects using impulsivity scores measured with Barratt Impulsivity Scale-11 and computerized Kirby's delay discounting task. The VBM analysis showed that impulsivity appears to be reliant on a network of cortical (medial prefrontal cortex and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex) and subcortical (ventral striatum) structures emphasizing the importance of brain networks associated with reward related decision-making in daily life as morphological biomarkers for impulsivity in a normal healthy population. While our results in healthy volunteers may not directly extend to pathological conditions, they provide an insight into the mechanisms of impulsive behaviour in patients with abnormalities in prefrontal/frontal-striatal connections, such as in drug abuse, pathological gambling, ADHD and Parkinson's disease.
The auditory magnetic event-related fields (ERF) qualitatively change through the child development, reflecting maturation of auditory cortical areas. Clicks presented with long inter-stimulus interval produce distinct ERF components, and may appear useful to characterize immature EFR morphology in children. The present study is aimed to investigate morphology of the auditory ERFs in school-age children, as well as lateralization and repetition suppression of ERF components evoked by the clicks. School-age children and adults passively listened to pairs of click presented to the right ear, left ear or binaurally, with 8-11s intervals between the pairs and a 1s interval within a pair. Adults demonstrated a typical P50m/N100m response. Unlike adults, children had two distinct components preceding the N100m-P50m (at ~65ms) and P100m (at ~100ms). The P100m dominated the child ERF, and was most prominent in response to binaural stimulation. The N100m in children was less developed than in adults and partly overlapped in time with the P100m, especially in response to monaural clicks. Strong repetition suppression was observed for P50m both in children and adults, P100m in children and N100m in adults. Both children and adults demonstrated ERF amplitude and/or latency right hemispheric advantage effects that may reflect right hemisphere dominance for preattentive arousal processes. Our results contribute to the knowledge concerning development of auditory processing and its lateralization in children and have implications for investigation of the auditory evoked fields in developmental disorders.

Few studies have provided information on the prevalence of vertebral fractures (VFs) and their risk factors in hemodialysis patients. A multicenter, cross-sectional, observational study was carried out to assess the prevalence of VFs and vascular calcifications (VCs) in 387 hemodialysis patients (mean age 64.2  14.1 years, 63 % males) and in a control group of 51 osteoporotic subjects. Biochemical tests included 25(OH) vitamin D, bone Gla protein (total and undercarboxylated), and total matrix Gla protein. Vertebral quantitative morphometry was carried out centrally for the detection of VF, defined as reduction by 20 % of one of the vertebral body dimensions. In the same radiograph, aortic and iliac VC scores were calculated. Prevalence of VF was 55.3 % in hemodialysis patients and 51.0 % in the control group. Multivariate analysis disclosed that male gender (59.8 vs. 47.6 %, p = 0.02; OR = 1.78, 95 % CI 1.15-2.75) and age (mean  SD 66.7  13.1 vs. 61.0  14.7 years, p &lt; 0.001; OR = 1.03, 95 % CI 1.01-1.05) were significantly associated with VF. The prevalence of aortic VC was significantly higher in hemodialysis patients than in controls (80.6 vs. 68.4 %, p = 0.001). The factors with the strongest association with VC, apart from atrial fibrillation, were serum 25(OH)vitamin D levels below 29 ng/mL for aortic VC (OR = 1.85, 95 % CI 1.04-3.29) and VF both for aortic (OR = 1.77, 95 % CI 1.00-3.14) and iliac (OR = 1.96, 95 % CI 1.27-3.04) VC. In conclusion, the prevalence of VF, especially in males, and VC, in both genders, is high in hemodialysis patients. VF is associated with VC. Vitamin D deficiency is also associated with VC. Further longitudinal studies are warranted to investigate fractures in renal patients.
Atrial fibrillation (AF) is an important cause of ischemic stroke, especially in older individuals. Strokes attributed to AF are often large and result in a high rate of fatality. The new oral anticoagulants offer advantages over warfarin in terms of dosing, pharmacokinetic characteristics, and lower rates of intracranial hemorrhage, but pose new management questions for physicians treating these patients. The management of acute stroke is not modified by the presence of AF, but is unique with respect to management of anticoagulation in the hyperacute and acute phases. We will review and discuss acute treatment options in anticoagulated patients with ischemic stroke, anticoagulation discontinuation, and timing of initiation with old and new oral anticoagulants, and managing intracranial hemorrhage in anticoagulated patients. We will end by briefly discussing investigations of stroke patients with suspected cardioembolic stroke.



Although Scandinavian neuroscience has a proud history, its status during the Nazi era has been overlooked. In fact, prominent neuroscientists in German-occupied Denmark and Norway, as well as in neutral Sweden, were directly affected. Mogens Fog, Poul Thygesen (Denmark) and Haakon Sthre (Norway) were resistance fighters, tortured by the Gestapo: Thygesen was imprisoned in concentration camps and Sthre executed. Jan Jansen (Norway), another neuroscientist resistor, escaped to Sweden, returning under disguise to continue fighting. Fritz Buchthal (Denmark) was one of almost 8000 Jews escaping deportation by fleeing from Copenhagen to Sweden. In contrast, Carl Vrnet (Denmark) became a collaborator, conducting inhuman experiments in Buchenwald concentration camp, and Herman Lundborg (Sweden) and Thorleif strem (Norway) advanced racial hygiene in order to maintain the &quot;superior genetic pool of the Nordic race.&quot; Compared to other Nazi-occupied countries, there was a high ratio of resistance fighters to collaborators and victims among the neuroscientists in Scandinavia.
In 1665 the Danish scholar Niels Stensen (1638-1686) reached Paris, where he pronounced a discourse on brain anatomy that was to orient neuroscientists for years to come. In his lecture, Stensen rejected ancient speculations about animal spirits and criticized Ren Descartes and his followers who, despite a poor knowledge of brain anatomy, elaborated complex models to explain the multifaceted function of what he considered the principal organ of the human mind. He advocated the need for studying the brain through a comparative, developmental and pathological convergent approach and called for appropriate dissection methods and accurate illustrations. His own careful anatomical studies permitted him to precisely depict many brain structures. After pioneering works in paleontology and geology, he devoted himself to theology. In 1677 Stensen converted from Lutheranism to Catholicism and, while working relentlessly as a bishop and apostolic vicar in Northern Europe, he died in self-imposed poverty at age 48.
In Part 2, we discuss the challenges of keeping up with the 'literature,' evidence-based medicine (EBM) in emerging economies and the Neurosciences, and two recent approaches to classifying evidence. We conclude by summarizing information from Parts 1 and 2 which suggest the need to critically re-appraise core elements of the EBM paradigm: (1) the hierarchical ranking of evidence, (2) randomized controlled trials or systematic reviews as the gold standard for all clinical questions or situations, (3) the statistical tests that have become integral to the 'measurements' for analyzing evidence, and (4) re-incorporating a role for evidence from basic sciences and pathophysiology. An understanding of how cognitive processes influence clinical decisions is also necessary to improve evidence-based practice. Emerging economies may have to modify the design and conduct of clinical research to their settings. Like all paradigms, EBM must keep improving with input from the grassroots to remain beneficial.


Stroke is a significant medical emergency and occurs frequently in patients receiving renal replacement therapy. In 2005, the Registered Nurses Association of Ontario (RNAO) published Nursing Best Practice Guidelines for Stroke, highlighting the necessity and expectation that all nurses, regardless of specialty, are able to perform an abbreviated neurological assessment, identify the symptoms of stroke, and respond to these as a medical emergency. This article highlights the significance of neurovascular disease in persons who receive renal replacement therapy, and serves as an educational review for dialysis nurses to increase their neurological functional assessment skills. The outlined abbreviated neurological assessment parallels the Canadian Neurological Scale, and is based on the practice recommendations published in the RNAO Nursing Best Practice Guidelines in 2005.
PTP interacts with F3/contactin to form a membrane-spanning co-receptor complex to transduce extracellular signals to Fyn tyrosine kinase. As both F3 and Fyn regulate myelination, we investigated a role for PTP in this process. Here, we report that both oligodendrocytes and neurons express PTP that evenly distributes along myelinated axons of the spinal cord. The ablation of PTP in vivo leads to early formation of transverse bands that are mainly constituted by F3 and Caspr along the axoglial interface. Notably, PTP deficiency facilitates abnormal myelination and pronouncedly increases the number of non-landed oligodendrocyte loops at shortened paranodes in the spinal cord. Small axons, which are normally less myelinated, have thick myelin sheaths in the spinal cord of PTP-null animals. Thus, PTP may be involved in the formation of axoglial junctions and ensheathment in small axons during myelination of the spinal cord.
Dramatic morphogenetic processes underpin nearly every step of nervous system development, from initial neuronal migration and axon guidance to synaptogenesis. Underlying this morphogenesis are dynamic rearrangements of cytoskeletal architecture. Here we discuss the roles of the actin cytoskeleton in the development of presynaptic terminals, from the elaboration of terminal arbors to the recruitment of presynaptic vesicles and active zone components. The studies discussed here underscore the importance of actin regulation at every step in neuronal circuit assembly.
Reelin is an extracellular matrix molecule that is involved in the normal development of the cerebellar lamination, Bergmann glial fibres alignment, Purkinje cell monolayer arrangement and granule cell migration. In this study, we have examined the effects of maternal exposure of deltamethrin (DLT), a type II pyrethroid insecticide, on the structural and functional development of rat cerebellum during postnatal life. DLT (0.75 mg/kg body weight, intraperitoneally dissolved in dimethylsulphoxide) was administered in timed pregnant rats during two different gestational time periods, i.e. gestational days of 7-10 and 11-14, respectively. In DLT exposed rats, a significant overexpression of reelin was observed in the cells of the external granule cell layer (EGL) and internal granule cell layer along with an ectopic expression of reelin in the EGL as well as in the migrating granule cells just below the EGL, revealing an arrest of granule cell migration in this zone. Mis-orientation and hypertrophy of the Bergmann glial fibres further hampered the journey of the granule cells to their final destination. Possibly reelin overexpression also caused misalignment of the Purkinje cells and inhibited the neurite growth leading to a significant decrease in the spine density, main dendritic length and width of the dendritic arbour. Thus, it is proposed that the DLT exerts its neurotoxic effects possibly via the intracellular accumulation and low release of reelin leading to an impaired granule cell and Purkinje cell migration, inhibition of neurite outgrowth and reduced spine density. Such impaired cerebellar development leads to motor coordination deficits.
Aging is an inevitable process that occurs in the whole body system accompanying with many functional and morphological changes. Inflammation is known as one of age-related factors, and inflammatory changes could enhance mortality risk. In this study, we compared immunoreactivities of inflammatory cytokines, such as interleukin (IL)-2 (a pro-inflammatory cytokine), its receptor (IL-2R), IL-4 (an anti-inflammatory cytokine), and its receptor (IL-4R) in the cervical and lumbar spinal cord of young adult (2-3 years old) and aged (10-12 years old) beagle dogs using immunohistochemistry and western blotting. IL-2 and IL-2R-immunoreactive nerve cells were found throughout the gray matter of the cervical and lumbar spinal cord of young adult and aged dogs. In the spinal cord neurons of the aged dog, immunoreactivity and protein levels were apparently increased compared with those in the young adult dog. Change patterns of IL-4- and IL-4R-immunoreactive cells and their protein levels were also similar to those in IL-2 and IL-2R; however, IL-4 and IL-4R immunoreactivity in the periphery of the neuronal cytoplasm in the aged dog was much stronger than that in the young adult dog. These results indicate that the increase of inflammatory cytokines and their receptors in the aged spinal cord might be related to maintaining a balance of inflammatory reaction in the spinal cord during normal aging.
Given the current limitation of therapeutic approach for ischemic stroke, a leading cause of disability and mortality in the developed countries, to develop new therapeutic strategies for this devastating disease is urgently necessary. As a serine/threonine kinase, mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) activation can mediate broad biological activities that include protein synthesis, cytoskeleton organization, and cell survival. mTOR functions through mTORC1 and mTORC2 complexes and their multiple downstream substrates, such as eukaryotic initiation factor 4E-binding protein 1, p70 ribosomal S6 kinase, sterol regulatory element-binding protein 1, hypoxia inducible factor-1, and signal transducer and activator transcription 3, Yin Ying 1, Akt, protein kinase c-alpha, Rho GTPase, serum-and gucocorticoid-induced protein kinase 1, etc. Specially, the role of mTOR in the central nervous system has been attracting considerable attention. Based on the ability of mTOR to prevent neuronal apoptosis, inhibit autophagic cell death, promote neurogenesis, and improve angiogenesis, mTOR may acquire the capability of limiting the ischemic neuronal death and promoting the neurological recovery. Consequently, to regulate the activity of mTOR holds a potential as a novel therapeutic strategy for ischemic stroke.

Hearing and feeling both rely upon the transduction of physical events into frequency-based neural codes, suggesting that the auditory system may be intimately related to the somatosensory system. Here, we provide evidence that the neural substrates for audition and somatosensation are anatomically linked. Using diffusion tensor imaging with both deterministic and probabilistic tractography to measure white matter connectivity, we show that there are extensive ipsilateral connections between the primary auditory cortex and the primary and secondary somatosensory regions in the human cerebral cortex. We further show that these cross-modal connections are exaggerated between the auditory and secondary somatosensory cortex in the lesioned hemisphere of a patient (SR) with acquired auditory-tactile synesthesia, in whom sounds alone produce bodily sensations. These results provide an anatomical basis for multisensory interactions between audition and somatosensation and suggest that cross-talk between these regions may explain why some sounds, such as nails screeching down a chalkboard or an audible mosquito, can induce feelings of touch, especially on the contralesional body surface of patient SR.
Endocannabinoids (eCBs) play a prominent role in regulating synaptic signaling throughout the brain. In layer 2/3 of the neocortex, eCB-mediated suppression of GABA release results in an enhanced excitability of pyramidal neurons (PNs). The eCB system is also involved in spike timing-dependent plasticity that is dependent on backpropagating action potentials (bAPs). Dendritic backpropagation plays an important role in many aspects of neuronal function, and can be modulated by intrinsic dendritic conductances as well as by synaptic inputs. The present studies explored a role for the eCB system in modulating backpropagation in PN dendrites. Using dendritic calcium imaging and somatic patch clamp recordings from mouse somatosensory cortical slices, we found that activation of type 1 cannabinoid receptors potentiated bAP-induced calcium transients in apical dendrites of layer 2/3 but not layer 5 PNs. This effect was mediated by suppression of GABAergic transmission, because it was prevented by a GABAA receptor antagonist and was correlated with cannabinoid suppression of inhibitory synaptic activity. Finally, we found that activity-dependent eCB release during depolarization-induced suppression of inhibition enhanced bAP-induced dendritic calcium transients. Taken together, these results point to a potentially important role for the eCB system in regulating dendritic backpropagation in layer 2/3 PNs.
Mental paper folding is a complex measure of visuospatial ability involving a coordinated sequence of mental transformations and is often considered a measure of mental ability. The literature is inconclusive regarding the precise neural architecture that underlies performance. We combined the administration of the Armed Forces Qualification Test boxes subtest measuring mental paper folding ability, with a voxel-based lesion symptom mapping approach to identify brain regions associated with impaired mental paper folding ability. Using a large sample of subjects with penetrating traumatic brain injury and defined lesions studied over 2 time points, roughly 15 and 35 years post-injury, enabled us to answer the causal questions regarding mental paper folding impairment. Our results revealed that brain injury significantly exacerbates the decline of performance on mental paper folding tasks over time. Our study adds novel neuropsychological and neuroimaging support for parietal lobe involvement; specifically the right inferior parietal lobule (Broadmann's Area [BA] 40) and the left parahippocampal region (BAs 19, 36). Both areas were consistently associated with mental paper folding performance and demonstrate that the right parietal lobe and the left parahippocampal gyrus play an integral role in mental paper folding tasks.
Prior expectations influence the way incoming stimuli are processed. A standard, validated way of manipulating prior expectations is to bias participants to perceive a stimulus by instructing them to look out for this type of stimulus. Here, we investigated the influence of prior expectations on the processing of incoming stimuli (emotional faces) in adolescence. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging, we assessed activity and functional connectivity in 13 adolescents and 13 healthy adults (matched for gender and intelligence quotient), while they were presented with sequences of emotional faces (happy, fearful, or angry). A specific instruction at the start of each sequence instructed the participants to look out for fearful or angry faces in the subsequent sequence. Both groups responded more accurately and with shorter reaction times (RTs) to faces that were congruent with the instruction. For anger, this bias was lower in the adolescents (for RTs), and adults demonstrated greater activation than adolescents in the ventro-medial prefrontal cortex (vMPFC) and greater functional connectivity between the vMPFC and the thalamus when the face was congruent with the instruction. Our results demonstrate that the influence of prior expectations (in the form of an instruction) on the subsequent processing of face stimuli is still developing in the adolescent brain.
The development of social emotions such as compassion is crucial for successful social interactions as well as for the maintenance of mental and physical health, especially when confronted with distressing life events. Yet, the neural mechanisms supporting the training of these emotions are poorly understood. To study affective plasticity in healthy adults, we measured functional neural and subjective responses to witnessing the distress of others in a newly developed task (Socio-affective Video Task). Participants' initial empathic responses to the task were accompanied by negative affect and activations in the anterior insula and anterior medial cingulate cortex--a core neural network underlying empathy for pain. Whereas participants reacted with negative affect before training, compassion training increased positive affective experiences, even in response to witnessing others in distress. On the neural level, we observed that, compared with a memory control group, compassion training elicited activity in a neural network including the medial orbitofrontal cortex, putamen, pallidum, and ventral tegmental area--brain regions previously associated with positive affect and affiliation. Taken together, these findings suggest that the deliberate cultivation of compassion offers a new coping strategy that fosters positive affect even when confronted with the distress of others.
In this combined structural and functional MRI developmental study, we tested 48 participants aged 7-37 years on 3 simple face-processing tasks (identity, expression, and gaze task), which were designed to yield very similar performance levels across the entire age range. The same participants then carried out 3 more difficult out-of-scanner tasks, which provided in-depth measures of changes in performance. For our analysis we adopted a novel, systematic approach that allowed us to differentiate age- from performance-related changes in the BOLD response in the 3 tasks, and compared these effects to concomitant changes in brain structure. The processing of all face aspects activated the core face-network across the age range, as well as additional and partially separable regions. Small task-specific activations in posterior regions were found to increase with age and were distinct from more widespread activations that varied as a function of individual task performance (but not of age). Our results demonstrate that activity during face-processing changes with age, and these effects are still observed when controlling for changes associated with differences in task performance. Moreover, we found that changes in white and gray matter volume were associated with changes in activation with age and performance in the out-of-scanner tasks.
The after-effects of repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) are highly variable between individuals. Because different populations of cortical neurons are stimulated more easily or are more excitable in different people at different times, the variability may not be due to differences between individuals in the plasticity of cortical synapses, but may instead be due to individual differences in the recruitment of cortical neurons. In this study, we examined the effects of rTMS in 56 healthy volunteers. The responses to excitatory and inhibitory theta burst stimulation (TBS) protocols were highly variable between individuals. Surprisingly, the TBS effect was highly correlated with the latency of motor-evoked potentials (MEPs) evoked by TMS pulses that induced an anterior-posterior (AP) directed current across the central sulcus. Finally, we devised a new plasticity protocol using closely timed pairs of oppositely directed TMS current pulses across the central sulcus. Again, the after-effects were related to the latency of MEPs evoked by AP current. Our results are consistent with the idea that variation in response to rTMS plasticity probing protocols is strongly influenced by which interneuron networks are recruited by the TMS pulse.
Rodent whisker sensation occurs both actively, as whiskers move rhythmically across objects, and in a passive mode in which externally applied deflections are sensed by static, non-moving whiskers. Passive whisker stimuli are robustly encoded in the somatosensory (S1) cortex, and provide a potentially powerful means of studying cortical processing. However, whether S1 contributes to passive sensation is debated. We developed 2 new behavioral tasks to assay passive whisker sensation in freely moving rats: Detection of unilateral whisker deflections and discrimination of right versus left whisker deflections. Stimuli were simple, simultaneous multi-whisker deflections. Local muscimol inactivation of S1 reversibly and robustly abolished sensory performance on these tasks. Thus, S1 is required for the detection and discrimination of simple stimuli by passive whiskers, in addition to its known role in active whisker sensation.
Maladaptive dopaminergic mediation of reward processing in humans is thought to underlie multiple neuropsychiatric disorders, including addiction, Parkinson's disease, and schizophrenia. Mechanisms responsible for the development of such disorders may depend on individual differences in neural signaling within large-scale cortico-subcortical circuitry. Using a combination of functional neuroimaging and pharmacological challenges in healthy volunteers, we identified opposing dopamine agonistic and antagonistic neuromodulatory effects on distributed functional interactions between specific subcortical regions and corresponding neocortical &quot;resting-state&quot; networks, known to be involved in distinct aspects of cognition and reward processing. We found that, relative to a placebo, levodopa and haloperidol challenges, respectively, increased or decreased the functional connectivity between (1) the midbrain and a &quot;default mode&quot; network, (2) the right caudate and a right-lateralized frontoparietal network, and (3) the ventral striatum and a fronto-insular network. Further, we found drug-specific associations between brain circuitry reactivity to dopamine modulation and individual differences in trait impulsivity, revealing dissociable drug-personality interaction effects across distinct dopamine-dependent cortico-subcortical networks. Our findings identify possible systems underlying pathogenesis and treatment efficacy in disorders of dopamine deficiency.
One central goal in cognitive neuroscience of learning and memory is to characterize the neural processes that lead to long-lasting episodic memory. In addition to the stronger frontoparietal activity, greater category- or item-specific cortical representation during encoding, as measured by pattern similarity (PS), is also associated with better subsequent episodic memory. Nevertheless, it is unknown whether frontoparietal activity and cortical PS reflect distinct mechanisms. To address this issue, we reanalyzed previous data (Xue G, Dong Q, Chen C, Lu ZL, Mumford JA, Poldrack RA. 2010. Greater neural pattern similarity across repetitions is associated with better memory. Science. 330:97, Experiment 3) using a novel approach based on combined activation-based and information-based analyses. The results showed that across items, stronger frontoparietal activity was associated with greater PS in distributed brain regions, including those where the PS was predictive of better subsequent memory. Nevertheless, the item-specific PS was still associated with later episodic memory after controlling the effect of frontoparietal activity. Our results suggest that one possible mechanism of frontoparietal activity on episodic memory encoding is via enhancing PS, resulting in more unique and consistent input to the medial temporal lobe. In addition, they suggest that PS might index additional processes, such as pattern reinstatement as a result of study-phase retrieval, that contribute to episodic memory encoding.
Olfactory dysfunction in neurodegenerative conditions such as Parkinson's syndrome and Alzheimer's disease can hallmark disease onset. We hypothesized that patients with diabetes mellitus, a condition featuring peripheral and central neurodegeneration, would have decreased olfaction abilities. We examined participants with diabetic peripheral neuropathy, participants with diabetes without diabetic peripheral neuropathy, and control participants in blinded fashion using standardized Sniffin' Sticks. Diabetic peripheral neuropathy severity was quantified using the Utah Early Neuropathy Scale. Further subcategorization of diabetic peripheral neuropathy based on presence of neuropathic pain was performed with Douleur Neuropathique 4 Questionnaires. Participants with diabetes had decreased olfactory sensitivity, impaired olfactory discrimination abilities, and reduced odor identification skills when compared with controls. However, loss of olfaction ability was, at least partially, attributed to presence of neuropathic pain on subcategory assessment, although pain severity was not associated with dysfunction. Those participants with diabetes without diabetic peripheral neuropathy and those with diabetic peripheral neuropathy without neuropathic pain had similar olfactory function as controls in general. The presence of neuropathic pain, associated with limited attention and concentration, may explain at least a portion of the olfactory dysfunction witnessed in the diabetic patient population.

Postoperative spinal wound dehiscence is a significant complication following the posterior midline approach. It is postulated that this approach disrupts the vasculature supplying the paraspinal muscles and overlying skin. Although the spinal vasculature has been investigated previously, the smaller arterioles have not been described in the context of the posterior midline approach. Eight cadaveric neck and posterior torso specimens were dissected after injection with a radio-opaque lead oxide mixture and subsequent radiographs taken were analyzed. The deep cervical, vertebral, superficial cervical, and occipital arteries consistently supplied the cervical paraspinal muscles. The latter two arteries also vascularized the overlying skin. The deep cervical arteries were found to be located lateral to the C3 to C6 vertebrae, vulnerable to damage with the posterior approach. In the thoracic region, the superior and posterior intercostal arteries consistently supplied the spinal muscles. In all specimens, two small anastomotic vessels posterior to the laminae were found connecting the intercostal artery perforators. Both the arterial perforators and their anastomotic channels were situated in the surgical field and susceptible to damage with the posterior approach. It is likely that the disruption in spinal vasculature contributes to the multifactorial problem of wound dehiscence with the posterior midline approach.
A new nonlinear technique for analysis of brain dynamics called spatiotemporal analysis of relative convergence (STARC) of electroencephalograms (EEGs) is introduced, based on the relative convergence of EEGs of different loci. This technique shows how many times EEGs of each loci pair converge together, which in turn is used as an indicator to determine the different neuronal regions involved in performing the same task. A higher STARC value indicates that more regions are recruited to perform the same task. The STARC methodology was used to reveal sex difference pathophysiology and brain dynamics, using EEG data from 11 male and 11 female adults with major depressive disorder (MDD). The results show significant differences in relative convergences of EEGs of intraleft temporal and frontoleft temporal lobes at  band, between male and female patients.
Extended periods of complete darkness have long been used among other early experiential manipulations to explore the role of visual experience in the development of the visual pathways. In the last decade, short periods of darkness have been used to facilitate the imposition of different or conflicting visual input each day to explore the manner by which processes of perinatal development controlled by gene action are refined subsequently by visual experience. Very recently, periods of complete darkness of intermediate length (10 days) have been shown to promote very fast recovery from amblyopia induced by prior monocular deprivation (MD). When imposed immediately after a period of MD, in certain circumstances, darkness appears to insulate against the development of amblyopia. It is proposed that complete darkness may reverse maturation of many of the so-called braking molecules in the visual cortex, so that it reverts to a more juvenile state.


Over the past year huge advances have been made in our ability to determine the genetic aetiology of many neurological diseases through the utilisation of next generation sequencing platforms. This technology is, on a daily basis, providing new breakthroughs in neurological disease. The aim of this article is to clearly describe the technological platforms, methods of data analysis, established breakthroughs, and potential future clinical and research applications of this innovative and exciting technique which has relevance to all those working within clinical neuroscience.











The atypical antipsychotic agents are felt by many to have a lower risk of inducing the development of dyskinetic movements than the conventional antipsychotic agents agents such as haloperidol and fluphenazine. However, that does not mean that treatment with the atypical antipsychotic agents carries no risk of developing dyskinesias. To the contrary, all of the atypical antipsychotic agents, including aripiprazole, have been associated with the induction of dyskinetic movements. We will present the case of a patient who developed a covert dyskinesia that manifested shortly after the discontinuation of aripiprazole. We will review the use of aripiprazole and the adverse effects most commonly associated with its use. We will also discuss the risk factors associated with the development of tardive dyskinesia and review the different clinical variations (withdrawal dyskinesia, covert dyskinesia, tardive diskinesia) of medication-induced dyskinesias.

Although dystonia has traditionally been regarded as a basal ganglia dysfunction, recent provocative evidence has emerged of cerebellar involvement in the pathophysiology of this enigmatic disease. This review synthesizes the data suggesting that the cerebellum plays an important role in dystonia etiology, from neuroanatomical research of complex networks showing that the cerebellum is connected to a wide range of other central nervous system structures involved in movement control to animal models indicating that signs of dystonia are due to cerebellum dysfunction and completely disappear after cerebellectomy, and finally to clinical observations in secondary dystonia patients with various types of cerebellar lesions. We propose that dystonia is a large-scale dysfunction, involving not only cortico-basal ganglia-thalamo-cortical pathways, but the cortico-ponto-cerebello-thalamo-cortical loop as well. Even in the absence of traditional &quot;cerebellar signs&quot; in most dystonia patients, there are more subtle indications of cerebellar dysfunction. It is clear that as long as the cerebellum's role in dystonia genesis remains unexamined, it will be difficult to significantly improve the current standards of dystonia treatment or to provide curative treatment.


Executive control development typically has been conceptualized to result from quantitative changes in the efficiency of the underlying processes. In contrast, the present study addressed the possibility of qualitative change with age by examining how children and adults detect task switches. Participants in three age groups (5- and 10-year-old children, young adults) completed two conditions of a cued task-switching paradigm where task cues were presented either in isolation or in conjunction with transition cues. Five-year-olds performed better with transition cues, whereas the reverse effect was observed at age 10 and with adults. Unlike 5-year-olds who detect switches after semantically processing cues, older participants strategically detect switches based on perceptual processing only. Age-related qualitative changes promote increasingly optimal adjustment of executive resources with age.
The classic gavagai problem exemplifies the difficulty to identify the referent of a novel word uttered in a foreign language. Here, we consider the reverse problem: identifying the referential part of a label. Assuming &quot;gavagai&quot; indicates a rabbit in a foreign language, it may very well mean &quot;a rabbit&quot; or &quot;that rabbit&quot;. How can a learner know whether rabbit is actually said &quot;vagai&quot;, &quot;gava&quot; or &quot;gavagai&quot;? Here, we report evidence suggesting that infants can identify potential function words on the basis of their high frequency and avoid considering them when associating labels and referents. In three experiments, 17-month-old infants were first exposed to an artificial speech stream where frequent and infrequent syllables alternated (e.g.,  gibuvokugifevodegita). Infants then saw a novel object and heard the repetition of a bisyllabic label consisting of one frequent and one infrequent syllable (e.g., vomu). The frequent syllable was the initial syllable of the label in Experiment 1 and the final in Experiments 2 and 3. We then presented infants with both the previous and now familiar object and a novel object. We asked whether infants would be more likely to orient first towards the familiar object when hearing a label with a new frequent and the previous infrequent syllables (e.g., gimu), or when hearing a label with a new infrequent and the previous frequent syllables (e.g., vona). Results suggest that the infrequent syllable was associated more strongly with the object, than the frequent one, only when the perceived position of the frequent syllable was constant all along the experiment.
Microglia are the primary immune cells in the brain. Under pathological conditions, they become activated and participate in scavenging, inflammation and tissue repair in response to brain injury. While the function and underlying mechanism of activated microglia have been intensively studied in the past decades, physiological functions of resting microglia remain largely underestimated. In our recent work, by simultaneously monitoring both the motility of resting microglial processes and the activity of surrounding neurons in intact zebrafish optic tectum, we examined the interaction between resting microglia and neurons. Local increase in neuronal activity attracts resting microglial processes and drives them to contact neurons with high levels of activity. This process is mediated by neuronal release of &quot;find-me&quot; signals such as ATP via pannexin-1 hemichannels and requires small Rho GTPase Rac in microglia. Reciprocally, the microglia-neuron contact reduces both the spontaneous and visually evoked activities of contacted neurons. We here summarize and explain the key results in the context of our previous work.
Neurotrophic factors (NTFs) are a heterogeneous group of extracellular signaling molecules that play critical roles in the development, maintenance, modulation and plasticity of the central and peripheral nervous systems. A subset of these factors, including members of three multigene families-the neurotrophins, neuropoetic cytokines and the glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor ligands-are particularly important for development and regulation of neurons involved in respiratory control. Here, we review the functional biology of these NTFs and their receptors, as well as their roles in regulating survival, maturation, synaptic strength and plasticity in respiratory control pathways. In addition, we highlight recent progress in identifying the role of abnormal NTF signaling in the molecular pathogenesis of respiratory dysfunction in Rett syndrome and in the development of potential new NTF-targeted therapeutic strategies.

To elucidate the relationships between alexithymia, suicide ideation and serum lipid levels in drug-nave adult outpatients with a DSM-IV diagnosis of Panic Disorder (PD), 72 patients were evaluated. Measures were the Panic Attack and Anticipatory Anxiety Scale, the Toronto Alexithymia Scale (TAS-20), the Scale of Suicide Ideation (SSI) and the Montgomery sberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS). Alexithymic patients showed higher scores on all rating scales and altered serum lipid levels than non-alexithymics. In the hierarchical regression model, the presence of lower HDL-C and higher VLDL-C levels and Difficulty in Identifying Feelings dimension of TAS-20 were associated with higher suicide ideation. In conclusion, alexithymic individuals with PD may show a cholesterol dysregulation that may be linked to suicide ideation. The authors discuss study limitations and future research needs.
This study examined whether the relationship between low effortful control (EC), general psychopathology and interpersonal maladjustment previously reported among children extends to adulthood. Two hundred and forty undergraduate students were assessed using the EC scale of the Adult Temperament Questionnaire, the General Severity Index of the Brief Symptom Inventory (BSI-GSI) and the interpersonal distress index of the Inventory of Interpersonal Problems-Short Circumplex (IIP-distress). Both the BSI-GSI and the IIP-distress scores were related to low levels of EC. Furthermore, interpersonal distress mediated the association between low EC and greater psychopathology severity. These results suggest that deficits in regulatory temperament among adults may be associated with experiencing greater psychopathology distress, and that this relationship may be explained by an impairment in interpersonal adjustment. Such preliminary findings may constitute a useful starting point for investigating this hypothesis among clinical populations.



Anosognosia for hemiplegia (AHP) is defined as a lack of awareness for motor incapacity after a brain lesion. The causes of AHP still remain poorly understood. Many associations and dissociations with other deficits have been highlighted but no specific cognitive or neurological impairment has been identified as a unique causative factor. We hypothesized that a failure to update beliefs about current state might be a crucial component of AHP. Here, we report results from a new test that are compatible with this view. We examined anosognosic and nosognosic brain-damaged patients, as well as healthy controls, on a task where they had to guess a target word based on successive clues, with increasing informative content. After each clue, participants had to propose a word solution and rated their confidence. Compared to other participants, anosognosic patients were abnormally overconfident in their responses, even when information from the clues was insufficient. Furthermore, when presented with new clues incongruent with their previous response, they often stuck to their former &quot;false&quot; beliefs instead of modifying them. This impairment was unrelated to global deficits in reasoning or memory, and all patients eventually identified the correct solution of riddles after the last, fully informative, clue. These results suggest that a deficit in the generation and adjustment of beliefs may be a key factor contributing to the occurrence and persistence of anosognosia, when associated with concomitant losses in motor, proprioceptive, and/or attentional functions. Patients may remain unaware of their deficit partly because they cannot &quot;update&quot; their beliefs about current state.
Patients with semantic dementia (SD) have significant impairments in naming and comprehension, but demonstrate relatively intact attention, everyday memory, and visuospatial skills. Given these preserved skills, attempts have been made to help re-build vocabulary in SD patients, with promising results. Such reports, however, are generally based upon only one or two cases and have employed variable retraining methods. It is thus unclear which elements of practice are crucial to success. Over two studies, we assessed four patients undergoing a word training program, who ranged in severity from mild to severe impairments to semantic knowledge. All four participants showed significant improvements in their ability to name trained items, with no changes in untrained items over the same time period. Improvements were evident within 3 weeks of practice, and could be established from a simple, repetitive practice of word-picture pairing, carried out at the participant's home. Strong effect sizes of the treatment were found in patients with severe deficits. Maintenance of learning was observed on some follow-up assessments, although continued practice is likely to be needed to sustain naming performance. Incorporating generation tasks into the practice may be assistive, but was not essential to success. These data support the utility of implementing simple home-practice programs even for patients with significant language deficits.
Apart from tics, echopraxia or echophenomena (EP), i.e., automatic imitation of observed movements, are common in patients with Gilles de la Tourette syndrome (TS). The supplementary motor area (SMA) has been shown to be overactive before the onset of tics in these patients, and it is possible that this area might also play a key role in the generation of echopraxia. We wondered whether EP can also be evoked in healthy controls (HC) by modifying neural activity of this cortical region. To this end, we modulated activity of the SMA in 30 HC by repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) in an attempt to induce EP. We used both 5 Hz (which can temporarily increase neural activity) and 1 Hz (which disrupts or reduces cortical activity) rTMS. Video clips were presented to 30 HC before and after stimulation. Each clip showed one single movement, either a tic of a TS patient or a spontaneous movement of a HC. During the whole presentation, participants were videotaped in order to detect EP. Video films of participants' responses were rated by two independent raters with respect to EP frequency. Our results reveal an increase of EP following 5 Hz stimulation but no effect following 1 Hz stimulation. This finding implies that the SMA is a relay mediating EP.
Number and space are spontaneously linked in human cognition and have been metaphorically described as a 'mental number line'. In number-space synesthetes (NSS), numbers are visualized in specific spatial arrays, in an idiosyncratic and explicit manner. Here we tested whether the numerical-spatial association that characterizes NSS has the potential to affect individual's actions when the number is not a task-relevant feature. We used a Simon task that implies stimulus-response matching. Task-irrelevant Arabic numerals (1, 4, 6, 9) appeared simultaneously at the same location as a colored target. A group of 15 age-matched controls and 4 NSS completed a 22 within-subjects design consisting of Simon (compatible and incompatible) and number-space (congruent and incongruent) trials. Mean reaction time (RT) and RT cumulative distribution functions across Simon and number-space conditions for both NSS and controls were analyzed. Relative to controls, synesthetes' RTs were overall affected by the number-space mapping. Moreover, synesthetes' Simon effects occurred at later response times. These results provide strong evidence that numbers are cognitively represented as action codes and that the strength of the association shapes the impact of the numerical representation on individuals' actions.
Viral encephalitis causes an altered level of consciousness, which may be associated with fever, seizures, focal deficits, CSF pleocytosis, and abnormal neuroimaging. Potential pathogens include HSV, VZV, enterovirus, and in some regions, arboviruses. Autoimmune (eg, anti-NMDA receptor) and paraneoplastic encephalitis are responsible for some cases where no pathogen is identified. Indications for ICU admission include coma, status epilepticus and respiratory failure. Timely initiation of anti-viral therapy is crucial while relevant molecular and serological test results are being performed. Supportive care should be directed at the prevention and treatment of cerebral edema and other physiological derangements which may contribute to secondary neurological injury.

In acute ischemic stroke, time is brain. Current guidelines recommend that the time from arrival at hospital to initiation of administration of tissue plasminogen activator, also known as the door-to-needle (DTN) time, should be 60 min or less. However, DTN times in practice usually exceed this recommended time. The median DTN times from the American Heart Association/American Stroke Association Get With The Guidelines-Stroke program and the multinational Safe Implementation of Treatment in Stroke International Stroke Thrombolysis Register are 75 min and 65 min, respectively. Prehospital factors associated with delays include patient-related factors such as poor recognition of stroke symptoms, poor use of emergency medical services, and complex psychosocial factors. Accurate recognition of stroke symptoms at a dispatcher and paramedic level is associated with shorter onset-to-arrival times. Prenotification of regional stroke centers by paramedics is strongly associated with shorter DTN times. In-hospital delays resulting in prolonged DTN times can be attenuated by having well-defined rapid triage pathways, defined stroke teams, single-call stroke team activation, established code stroke protocols, rapid access to diagnostic imaging, and laboratory services. In this review we summarize factors associated with prolonged DTN times and processes that allow faster onset-to-treatment times. Recent developments in the field are highlighted.
Epileptic encephalopathy with continuous spikes and waves during slow sleep (EECSWSS) is an age-related childhood condition characterized by epilepsy, cognitive or behavioral impairment, and electroencephalographic abnormality of continuous spike-wave discharges during slow sleep. Continuous spikes and waves during slow sleep (or electrical status epilepticus during sleep) is an electrographic pattern characterized by nearly continuous spike-wave discharges during non-REM sleep, with a frequency of 1.5-3 Hz and usually diffuse and bilateral in distribution. Most authors consider EECSWSS as wide spectrum of epileptic conditions of different origin associated with heterogeneous clinical manifestations and neuropsychological impairment of different severity in close temporal concordance with the appearance of the electroencephalographic pattern of electrical status epilepticus during sleep. The long-term prognosis of this condition is overall poor owing to the persistence of neuropsychological impairment. Therefore, early recognition and effective therapy are necessary to improve long-term prognosis.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common neurodegenerative disorder to date, with no curative or preventive therapy. Histopathological hallmarks of AD include deposition of -amyloid plaques and formation of neurofibrillary tangles. Extent studies on pathology of the disease have made important discoveries regarding mechanism of disease and potential therapeutic targets. Many cellular changes including oxidative stress, disruption of Ca2+ homeostasis, inflammation, metabolic disturbances, and accumulation of unfolded/misfolded proteins can lead to programmed cell death in AD. Despite intensive research, only five approved drugs are available for the management of AD. Hence, there is a need to look at alternative therapies. Use of natural products and culinary herbs in medicine has gained popularity in recent years. Several natural substances with neuroprotective effects have been widely studied. Most of these compounds have remarkable antioxidant properties and act mainly by scavenging free radical species. Some of them increase cell survival and improve cognition by directly affecting amyloidogenesis and programmed cell death pathways. Further studies on these natural products and their mechanism of action, parallel with the use of novel pharmaceutical drug design and delivery techniques, enable us to offer an addition to conventional medicine. This review discussed some natural products with potential neuroprotective properties against A with respect to their mechanism of action.
Curcumin (diferuloylmethane), a polyphenol extracted from the plant Curcuma longa, is widely used in Southeast Asia, China and India in food preparation and for medicinal purposes. Since the second half of the last century, this traditional medicine has attracted the attention of scientists from multiple disciplines to elucidate its pharmacological properties. Of significant interest is curcumin's role to treat neurodegenerative diseases including Alzheimer's disease (AD), and Parkinson's disease (PD) and malignancy. These diseases all share an inflammatory basis, involving increased cellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation and oxidative damage to lipids, nucleic acids and proteins. The therapeutic benefits of curcumin for these neurodegenerative diseases appear multifactorial via regulation of transcription factors, cytokines and enzymes associated with (Nuclear factor kappa beta) NFB activity. This review describes the historical use of curcumin in medicine, its chemistry, stability and biological activities, including curcumin's anti-cancer, anti-microbial, anti-oxidant, and anti-inflammatory properties. The review further discusses the pharmacology of curcumin and provides new perspectives on its therapeutic potential and limitations. Especially, the review focuses in detail on the effectiveness of curcumin and its mechanism of actions in treating neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases and brain malignancies.

As prescriptions for stimulant medication to treat ADHD have increased, so have concerns about the nonmedical use and diversion of stimulant medication, especially among college students. There is also growing concern about young adults feigning ADHD in order to receive a prescription for stimulant medication. This paper summarizes recent research on the nonmedical use and diversion of stimulant medication with a focus on the prevalence of these behaviors, motivations for nonmedical use, factors associated with nonmedical use, and the consequences of such use. Research on the medical misuse of prescribed medication and malingering to obtain a diagnosis of ADHD is also discussed.
We used event-related potentials (ERPs) to compare auditory word recognition in children with specific language impairment (SLI group; N=14) to a group of typically developing children (TD group; N=14). Subjects were presented with pictures of items and heard auditory words that either matched or mismatched the pictures. Mismatches overlapped expected words in word-onset (cohort mismatches; see: DOLL, hear: dog), rhyme (CONE -bone), or were unrelated (SHELL -mug). In match trials, the SLI group showed a different pattern of N100 responses to auditory stimuli compared to the TD group, indicative of early auditory processing differences in SLI. However, the phonological mapping negativity (PMN) response to mismatching items was comparable across groups, suggesting that just like TD children, children with SLI are capable of establishing phonological expectations and detecting violations of these expectations in an online fashion. Perhaps most importantly, we observed a lack of attenuation of the N400 for rhyming words in the SLI group, which suggests that either these children were not as sensitive to rhyme similarity as their typically developing peers, or did not suppress lexical alternatives to the same extent. These findings help shed light on the underlying deficits responsible for SLI.
Mental imagery-based interventions are receiving increasing interest for the treatment of psychological disorders in adults. This is based on evidence that mental imagery potently influences the experience of emotion in non-clinical samples, and that a number of psychological disorders are marked by syndrome-specific, distressing abnormalities in mental imagery. During childhood and adolescence, neurocognitive development impacting mental imagery processes may moderate its relationship with clinically-relevant emotional symptoms at a number of potential loci. Crucially, these changes could impact vulnerability to distressing mental imagery and the efficacy of mental imagery-based clinical interventions. This review synthesises evidence pertaining to developmental changes in the role and content of mental imagery, and in the cognitive sub-processes required to generate and sustain mental images. Subsequently, we discuss implications for understanding the developmental relationship between mental imagery, emotion and psychopathology. Translational cognitive neuroscience research investigating the content, emotional impact and neurocognitive substrates of mental imagery across development may reveal insights into trajectories of vulnerability to symptoms of a number of psychological disorders. If proper consideration is given to developmental factors, techniques based on mental imagery may be valuable as part of a treatment armoury for child and adolescent clinical populations and those at risk of emotional disorders.
The transition from late adolescence to young adulthood is marked by anatomical maturation of various brain regions. In parallel, defining life changes take place, such as entrance into college. Up till now research has not focused on functional brain differences during this particular developmental stage. The current cross-sectional fMRI study investigates age differences in cognitive control by comparing late adolescents, 18-19 years old, with young adults, 23-25 years old. Seventy-four male and female medical students carried out a combined cognitive and emotional Stroop task. Overall, lateral frontoparietal and medial parietal activation was observed during cognitive interference resolution. Young adults showed stronger activation in the dorsomedial prefrontal cortex, left inferior frontal gyrus, left middle temporal gyrus and middle cingulate, compared to late adolescents. During emotional interference resolution, the left precentral and postcentral gyrus were involved across age and sex. The dorsomedial prefrontal cortex and precuneus were activated more in young adults than in late adolescents. No sex-related differences were found in this homogeneous sample. The results suggest that the neural bases of cognitive control continue to change between late adolescence and young adulthood.
We studied three forms of dyadic communication involving theory of mind (ToM) in 82 children with traumatic brain injury (TBI) and 61 children with orthopedic injury (OI): Cognitive (concerned with false belief), Affective (concerned with expressing socially deceptive facial expressions), and Conative (concerned with influencing another's thoughts or feelings). We analyzed the pattern of brain lesions in the TBI group and conducted voxel-based morphometry for all participants in five large-scale functional brain networks, and related lesion and volumetric data to ToM outcomes. Children with TBI exhibited difficulty with Cognitive, Affective, and Conative ToM. The perturbation threshold for Cognitive ToM is higher than that for Affective and Conative ToM, in that Severe TBI disturbs Cognitive ToM but even Mild-Moderate TBI disrupt Affective and Conative ToM. Childhood TBI was associated with damage to all five large-scale brain networks. Lesions in the Mirror Neuron Empathy network predicted lower Conative ToM involving ironic criticism and empathic praise. Conative ToM was significantly and positively related to the package of Default Mode, Central Executive, and Mirror Neuron Empathy networks and, more specifically, to two hubs of the Default Mode Network, the posterior cingulate/retrosplenial cortex and the hippocampal formation, including entorhinal cortex and parahippocampal cortex.


In order to characterize the short- and long-term effects of repeated stressor exposure during adolescence, and to compare the effects of using two sources of cat odor as stressor stimuli, male and female adolescent rats (postnatal day (PND)  38-46) were exposed on five occasions to either a control stimulus, a cloth stimulus containing cat hair/dander, or a section of cat collar previously worn by a cat. Relative to control stimulus exposure, activity was suppressed and defensive behavior enhanced during exposure to either cat odor stimulus (most pervasively in rats exposed to the collar). Only cloth-exposed rats showed elevated levels of corticosterone (CORT), and only after repeated stressor exposure, but interestingly, rats exposed to the collar stimulus during adolescence continued to show increased behavioral indices of anxiety in adulthood. In this group, the time an individual spent in physical contact with a cagemate during the final adolescent exposure was negatively related to stress-induced CORT output in adulthood, which suggests that greater use of social support during adolescent stress may facilitate adult behavioral coping, without necessitating increased CORT release. These findings demonstrate that adolescent male and female rats respond defensively to cat odor stimuli across repeated exposures and that exposure to such stressors during adolescence can augment adult anxiety-like behavior in similar stressful conditions. These findings also suggest a potential role for social behavior during adolescent stressor exposure in mediating long-term outcomes.
This study examined performance on transitive inference problems in children with developmental dyscalculia (DD), typically developing controls matched on IQ, working memory and reading skills, and in children with outstanding mathematical abilities. Whereas mainstream approaches currently consider DD as a domain-specific deficit, we hypothesized that the development of mathematical skills is closely related to the development of logical abilities, a domain-general skill. In particular, we expected a close link between mathematical skills and the ability to reason independently of one's beliefs. Our results showed that this was indeed the case, with children with DD performing more poorly than controls, and high maths ability children showing outstanding skills in logical reasoning about belief-laden problems. Nevertheless, all groups performed poorly on structurally equivalent problems with belief-neutral content. This is in line with suggestions that abstract reasoning skills (i.e. the ability to reason about content without real-life referents) develops later than the ability to reason about belief-inconsistent fantasy content.A video abstract of this article can be viewed at http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=90DWY3O4xx8.
During vertebrate gastrulation, Wnt/planar cell polarity (PCP) signaling orchestrates polarized cell behaviors underlying convergence and extension (C&amp;E) movements to narrow embryonic tissues mediolaterally and lengthen them anteroposteriorly. Here, we have identified Gpr125, an adhesion G protein-coupled receptor, as a novel modulator of the Wnt/PCP signaling system. Excess Gpr125 impaired C&amp;E movements and the underlying cell and molecular polarities. Reduced Gpr125 function exacerbated the C&amp;E and facial branchiomotor neuron (FBMN) migration defects of embryos with reduced Wnt/PCP signaling. At the molecular level, Gpr125 recruited Dishevelled to the cell membrane, a prerequisite for Wnt/PCP activation. Moreover, Gpr125 and Dvl mutually clustered one another to form discrete membrane subdomains, and the Gpr125 intracellular domain directly interacted with Dvl in pull-down assays. Intriguingly, Dvl and Gpr125 were able to recruit a subset of PCP components into membrane subdomains, suggesting that Gpr125 may modulate the composition of Wnt/PCP membrane complexes. Our study reveals a role for Gpr125 in PCP-mediated processes and provides mechanistic insight into Wnt/PCP signaling.
To develop a functional nervous system, axons must initially navigate through a complex environment, directed by guidance ligands and receptors. These receptors must link to intracellular signaling cascades to direct axon pathfinding decisions. The Abelson tyrosine kinase (Abl) plays a crucial role in multiple Drosophila axon guidance pathways during development, though the mechanism by which Abl elicits a diverse set of guidance outputs is currently unknown. We identified Abl in a genetic screen for genes that contribute to Netrin-dependent axon guidance in midline-crossing (commissural) neurons. We find that Abl interacts both physically and genetically with the Netrin receptor Frazzled, and that disrupting this interaction prevents Abl from promoting midline axon crossing. Moreover, we find that Abl exerts its diverse activities through at least two different mechanisms: (1) a partly kinase-independent, structural function in midline attraction through its C-terminal F-actin binding domain (FABD) and (2) a kinase-dependent inhibition of repulsive guidance pathways that does not require the Abl C terminus. Abl also regulates motor axon pathfinding through a non-overlapping set of functional domains. These results highlight how a multifunctional kinase can trigger diverse axon guidance outcomes through the use of distinct structural motifs.
FGF signaling plays a pivotal role in eye development. Previous studies using in vitro chick models and systemic zebrafish mutants have suggested that FGF signaling is required for the patterning and specification of the optic vesicle, but due to a lack of genetic models, its role in mammalian retinal development remains elusive. In this study, we show that specific deletion of Fgfr1 and Fgfr2 in the optic vesicle disrupts ERK signaling, which results in optic disc and nerve dysgenesis and, ultimately, ocular coloboma. Defective FGF signaling does not abrogate Shh or BMP signaling, nor does it affect axial patterning of the optic vesicle. Instead, FGF signaling regulates Mitf and Pax2 in coordinating the closure of the optic fissure and optic disc specification, which is necessary for the outgrowth of the optic nerve. Genetic evidence further supports that the formation of an Frs2-Shp2 complex and its recruitment to FGF receptors are crucial for downstream ERK signaling in this process, whereas constitutively active Ras signaling can rescue ocular coloboma in the FGF signaling mutants. Our results thus reveal a previously unappreciated role of FGF-Frs2-Shp2-Ras-ERK signaling axis in preventing ocular coloboma. These findings suggest that components of FGF signaling pathway may be novel targets in the diagnosis of and the therapeutic interventions for congenital ocular anomalies.
The evolution of joints, which afford skeletal mobility, was instrumental in vertebrate success. Here, we explore the molecular genetics and cell biology that govern jaw joint development. Genetic manipulation experiments in zebrafish demonstrate that functional loss, or gain, of the homeobox-containing gene barx1 produces gain, or loss, of joints, respectively. Ectopic joints in barx1 mutant animals are present in every pharyngeal segment, and are associated with disrupted attachment of bone, muscles and teeth. We find that ectopic joints develop at the expense of cartilage. Time-lapse experiments suggest that barx1 controls the skeletal precursor cell choice between differentiating into cartilage versus joint cells. We discovered that barx1 functions in this choice, in part, by regulating the transcription factor hand2. We further show that hand2 feeds back to negatively regulate barx1 expression. We consider the possibility that changes in barx1 function in early vertebrates were among the key innovations fostering the evolution of skeletal joints.
Considerable progress has been made recently toward understanding the processes of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) damage and repair. However, a paucity of information still exists regarding the physiological effects of persistent mtDNA damage. This is due, in part, to experimental difficulties associated with targeting mtDNA for damage, while sparing nuclear DNA. Here, we characterize two systems designed for targeted mtDNA damage based on the inducible (Tet-ON) mitochondrial expression of the bacterial enzyme, exonuclease III, and the human enzyme, uracil-N-glyosylase containing the Y147A mutation. In both systems, damage was accompanied by degradation of mtDNA, which was detectable by 6h after induction of mutant uracil-N-glycosylase and by 12h after induction of exoIII. Unexpectedly, increases in the steady-state levels of single-strand lesions, which led to degradation, were small in absolute terms indicating that both abasic sites and single-strand gaps may be poorly tolerated in mtDNA. mtDNA degradation was accompanied by the loss of expression of mtDNA-encoded COX2. After withdrawal of the inducer, recovery from mtDNA depletion occurred faster in the system expressing exonuclease III, but in both systems reduced mtDNA levels persisted longer than 144h after doxycycline withdrawal. mtDNA degradation was followed by reduction and loss of respiration, decreased membrane potential, reduced cell viability, reduced intrinsic reactive oxygen species production, slowed proliferation, and changes in mitochondrial morphology (fragmentation of the mitochondrial network, rounding and &quot;foaming&quot; of the mitochondria). The mutagenic effects of abasic sites in mtDNA were low, which indicates that damaged mtDNA molecules may be degraded if not rapidly repaired. This study establishes, for the first time, that mtDNA degradation can be a direct and immediate consequence of persistent mtDNA damage and that increased ROS production is not an invariant consequence of mtDNA damage.


This article provides an overview of the prevalence, pathogenesis and diagnosis of, and treatment strategies for, depression in cancer patients. Untreated depression can increase the burden of oncology symptoms and worsen the cancer prognosis through the relationship between mood and immunity. The issues to consider when treating a patient with cancer who has depression include when to introduce pharmacotherapy, the criteria for choosing an antidepressant, and the necessary caution regarding side effects and drug interactions. The choice of an antidepressant is a complex decision that has to balance previous pharmacological experiences, different clusters of target symptoms, pharmacological interactions, and objective and subjective risks of side effects, with the aim of tailoring a strategy for each patient.

Methylmercury (MeHg) is a toxic metal that has been frequently linked to neurochemical alterations, brain lesions, neurobehavioral changes, and reproductive impairments in wild and captive birds. Much less is known about the effects of MeHg on the developing avian brain and resulting effects on hatchling behavior. The objective of this work was to use air cell injection studies to investigate the effect of in ovo MeHg exposure on brain pathology and four neurochemical biomarkers (N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor, -aminobutyric acid (GABA) receptor, glutamine synthetase (GS) and glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD)) that have previously been studied in wild birds, and on hatchling righting response, balance, and startle response. In a series of six studies, we exposed white leghorn chicken and Japanese quail embryos to methylmercury chloride (MeHgCl) (range: 0-6.4g/g egg) via egg injection on embryonic day (ED) 0 and measured receptor levels and enzyme activity at different stages of embryonic (days 11, 14, and 19 in chicken; day 15 in quail) and hatchling (day 1 and day 7) development, and in whole brain or discrete brain regions (cerebrum, cerebellum, optic lobe). We assessed neurobehaviors on post hatch (PH) days 1 and 7. Despite accumulating relatively high levels of Hg in the brain, embryos and hatchlings did not consistently display neurochemical changes consistent with those seen in wild birds and laboratory mammals. Hatchlings also did not demonstrate behavioral alterations. Pathology did not indicate a difference in occurrence and types of lesions between control and dosed birds. These findings suggest that in ovo MeHg exposure alone may not be responsible for neurological impacts in bird. This work draws attention to factors, such as age and species, that may influence responses to MeHg in birds.
Primordial germ cells (PGCs) and somatic cells originate from postimplantation epiblast cells in mice. As pluripotency is lost upon differentiation of somatic lineages, a naive epigenome and the pluripotency network are re-established during PGC development. Here we demonstrate that Prdm14 contributes not only to PGC specification, but also to naive pluripotency in embryonic stem (ES) cells by repressing the DNA methylation machinery and fibroblast growth factor (FGF) signalling. This indicates a critical role for Prdm14 in programming PGCs and promoting pluripotency in ES cells.
The impact of acute stress on inflammatory signaling within the central nervous system is of interest because these factors influence neuroendocrine function both directly and indirectly. Exposure to certain stressors increases expression of the proinflammatory cytokine, Il-1 in the hypothalamus. Increased IL-1 is reciprocally regulated by norepinephrine (stimulatory) and corticosterone (inhibitory), yet neural pathways underlying increased IL-1 have not been clarified. These experiments explored the impact of bilateral lesions of the ventral noradrenergic bundle (VNAB) on IL-1 expression in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN) after foot shock. Adult male Sprague Dawley rats received bilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of the VNAB (VNABx) and were exposed to intermittent foot shock. VNABx depleted approximately 64% of norepinephrine in the PVN and attenuated the IL-1 response produced by foot shock. However, characterization of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal response, a crucial prerequisite for interpreting the effect of VNABx on IL-1 expression, revealed a profound dissociation between ACTH and corticosterone. Specifically, VNABx blocked the intronic CRH response in the PVN and the increase in plasma ACTH, whereas corticosterone was unaffected at all time points examined. Additionally, foot shock led to a rapid and profound increase in cyclooxygenase-2 and IL-1 expression within the adrenal glands, whereas more subtle effects were observed in the pituitary gland. Together the findings were the 1) demonstration that exposure to acute stress increased expression of inflammatory factors more broadly throughout the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis; 2) implication of a modest role for norepinephrine-containing fibers of the VNAB as an upstream regulator of PVN IL-1; and 3) suggestion of an ACTH-independent mechanism controlling the release of corticosterone in VNABx rats.

Knowledge about long-term psychosocial outcome of temporal lobe resection (TLR) for epilepsy is limited. The aims of this study were to describe vocational outcome 10 years after TLR and to analyze the effect on the vocational situation by seizures, laterality of resection, verbal memory, and mood. Fifty-one patients were prospectively followed 10 years after TLR. Psychosocial and neuropsychological data were ascertained at baseline and 10 years after surgery and at corresponding time points for 23 controls. Fewer patients worked 10 years post-operatively compared with controls (TLR patients: 61% and controls: 96%). However, seizure-free patients were more likely to retain employment (71%) than patients who had seizures (41%). The odds of working full-time were 9.5 times higher for patients with seizure freedom than for those with continuing seizures. There were no associations between working at 10 years and side of resection or mood, and impairment of verbal memory did not have an influence on vocational outcome.

Cannabidiol is a nonpsychoactive member of phytocannabinoids that produces various pharmacological effects that are not mediated through putative CB1/CB2 cannabinoid receptors and their related effectors. In this study, we examined the effect of the i.c.v. administration of potassium BK channel blocker paxilline alone and in combination with cannabidiol in protection against pentylenetetrazol (PTZ)- and maximal electroshock (MES)-induced seizure in mice. In the PTZ-induced seizure model, i.c.v. administration of cannabidiol caused a significant increase in seizure threshold compared with the control group. Moreover, while i.c.v. administration of various doses of paxilline did not produce significant change in the PTZ-induced seizure threshold in mice, coadministration of cannabidiol and paxilline attenuated the antiseizure effect of cannabidiol in PTZ-induced tonic seizures. In the MES model of seizure, both cannabidiol and paxilline per se produced significant increase in percent protection against electroshock-induced seizure. However, coadministration of cannabidiol and paxilline did not produce significant interaction in their antiseizure effect in the MES test. The results of the present study showed a protective effect of cannabidiol in both PTZ and MES models of seizure. These results suggested a BK channel-mediated antiseizure action of cannabidiol in PTZ model of seizure. However, such an interaction might not exist in MES-induced convulsion.
Traditionally, subcortical structures such as the cerebellum are supposed to exert a modulatory effect on epileptic seizures, rather than being the primary seizure generator. We report a 14-month old girl presenting, since birth, with seizures symptomatic of a right cerebellar dysplasia, manifested as paroxystic contralateral hemifacial spasm and ipsilateral facial weakness. Multimodal imaging was used to investigate both anatomical landmarks related to the cerebellar lesion and mechanisms underlying seizure generation. Electric source imaging (ESI) supported the hypothesis of a right cerebellar epileptogenic generator in concordance with nuclear imaging findings; subsequently validated by intra-operative intralesional recordings. Diffusion spectrum imaging-related tractography (DSI) showed severe cerebellar structural abnormalities confirmed by histological examination. We suggest that hemispheric cerebellar lesions in cases like this are likely to cause epilepsy via an effect on the facial nuclei through ipsilateral and contralateral aberrant connections.

It has been suggested that loss of the astrocytic water channel aquaporin-4 (AQP4) from perivascular endfeet in sclerotic hippocampi contributes to increased seizure propensity in human mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (MTLE). Whether this loss occurs prior to or as a consequence of epilepsy development remains to be resolved. In the present study, we investigated whether the expression and distribution of AQP4 was altered prior to (i.e., in the latent phase) or after the onset of chronic epileptic seizures (i.e., in the chronic phase) in the kainate (KA) model of MTLE. Immunogold electron microscopic analysis revealed that AQP4 density in adluminal endfoot membranes was reduced in KA treated rats already in the latent phase, while the AQP4 density in the abluminal endfoot membrane was stable or slightly increased. The decrease in adluminal AQP4 immunogold labeling was accompanied by a reduction in the density of AQP4's anchoring protein alpha-syntrophin. The latent and chronic phases were associated with an upregulation of the M1 isoform of AQP4, as judged by semi-quantitative Western blot analysis. Taken together, the findings in this model suggest that a mislocalization of AQP4--reflecting a loss of astrocyte polarization--is an integral part of the epileptogenic process.
This retrospective study aimed to evaluate the efficacy of the Esteem() middle ear implant in sensorineural hearing loss (SNHL) of different degree as well as to compare it with that obtained with conventional hearing aids. Fifteen out of 30 adults patients who received an Esteem() middle ear device for rehabilitation of sensorineural hearing loss met the primary eligibility criterion of prior, continuous use of conventional hearing aids. Study population included moderate-to-severe SNHL (8 patients) and severe-to-profound SNHL (7 patients). Audiometric measurements included free-field pure-tone and speech audiometry in Esteem()-aided, HA-aided, and baseline threshold. For speech audiometry, speech reception threshold (SRT) and word recognition score (WRS) were assessed. Subjective benefit was evaluated by Client Oriented Scale of Improvement (COSI) questionnaire. In all the subjects, SRT and WRS showed improvement both with conventional HA and Esteem() in respect to the unaided situation. Although not statistically significant, a slight prevalence of the Esteem() performances was recorded both audiometrically and as subjective satisfaction score. The Esteem() middle ear device demonstrated appreciable benefit for rehabilitation of SNHL of different degree, comparable to what can be achieved by conventional hearing aids. In addition, this rehabilitative process may enable also individuals presenting with severe-to-profound SNHL to achieve remarkable functional outcomes.
Previous studies suggest a different regulation of the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis (HPA-axis) with lower diurnal cortisol levels, especially in the morning, in children with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) compared with controls. Since exposure to foetal and childhood psychosocial adversity has been associated with both ADHD and HPA-axis functioning, such exposures may explain these low cortisol levels in ADHD via early programming of the HPA-axis. Thus, our main aim was to retrospectively study foetal and early childhood exposures to psychosocial adversity in children with ADHD and to relate these exposures to cortisol levels. Saliva samples were collected during a regular weekday in children, 6-17 years old, with clinically confirmed ADHD (n = 197) and non-affected comparisons (n = 221) for radioimmunoassay analysis of cortisol. Parental rating scales were used for categorising subtypes of ADHD and degree of exposure to adversity. Children with ADHD had more reports of at least one rated foetal adversity (p = 0.041) and childhood adversity (p &lt; 0.001) than comparisons. The association between low morning cortisol levels and ADHD-symptoms remained when analyses were adjusted for adversities, age, sex, sampling time and symptoms of oppositional defiant disorder. No relation was found between exposures to foetal/childhood adversity and cortisol levels except for a positive relation between childhood adversity and cortisol morning increase in children with ADHD. The hypothesis that early adversity may influence the HPA-axis, leading to lower cortisol levels in children with ADHD, was not supported by our findings.
This study investigated the changes in muscular activity and tissue oxygenation while lifting and lowering a load of 20, 40, 60 or 80 % of one repetition maximum (1RM) with elbow flexor muscles until failure. The surface electromyogram (EMG) was recorded in biceps brachii (BB), brachioradialis (BRD) and triceps brachii (TB). For BB, a tissue oxygenation index (TOI) and a normalized total hemoglobin index (nTHI) were recorded by near-infrared spectroscopy. The number of repetitions decreased with the increase in load (P &lt; 0.001), and the four loading conditions induced a decrease in MVC force immediately after failure (P &lt; 0.001). The average of rectified EMG amplitude (aEMG) of elbow flexors increased for all loads during muscle shortening (SHO) and lengthening (LEN) phases of the movement (P &lt; 0.05), except for the 80 % load during LEN phase. At failure, the aEMG was greater during the SHO than the LEN phase (P &lt; 0.05), except for the 20 % load. TOI decreased for all loads and phases (P &lt; 0.05) but less (P &lt; 0.01) for the 20 % than 60 and 80 % loads (P &lt; 0.01), and for LEN compared with SHO phase. At failure, TOI was negatively associated with aEMG during the SHO (r(2) = 0.99) and LEN (r(2) = 0.82) phases, while TOI and aEMG were positively associated with load magnitude (r(2) &gt; 0.90) in both movement phases. This study emphasizes the influence of load magnitude and movement phase (SHO and LEN) on neuromuscular and oxydative adjustments during movements that involve lifting and lowering a load until failure.
Experiments performed in orbit on the central nervous system have focused on the control of posture, eye movements, spatial orientation, as well as cognitive processes, such as three-dimensional visual perception and mental representation of space. Brain activity has also been recorded during and immediately after space flight for evaluating the changes in brain structure activation during tasks involving perception, attention, memory, decision, and action. Recent ground-based studies brought evidence that the inputs from the neurovestibular system also participate in orthostatic intolerance. It is, therefore, important to revisit the flight data of neuroscience studies in the light of new models of integrative physiology. The outcomes of this exercise will increase our knowledge on the adaptation of body functions to changing gravitational environment, vestibular disorders, aging, and our approach towards more effective countermeasures during human space flight and planetary exploration.
Ovarian cancer is associated with limited overall survival, due to problems in early detection and therapy. Membrane ion channels have been proposed to play a significant, concerted role in the cancer process, from initial proliferation to metastasis, and promise to be early, functional biomarkers. We review the evidence for ion channel and aquaporin expression and functioning in human ovarian cancer cells and tissues. In vitro, K(+) channels, mainly voltage-gated, including Ca(2+)-activated channels, have been found to control the cell cycle, as in other cancers. Voltage-gated, volume-regulated and intracellular Cl(-) channels have been detected in vitro and in vivo and shown to be involved in proliferation, adhesion and invasion. Evidence for 'transient receptor potential', voltage-gated sodium and calcium channels, which have been shown to contribute to pathogenesis of other carcinomas, is also emerging in ovarian cancer. Aquaporins may be involved in cell growth, migration and formation of ascites via increased water permeability of micro-vessels. It is concluded that functional expression of ion channels and their regulation by steroid hormones and growth factors are an integral part of ovarian cancer development and progression. Furthermore, ion channels may be involved in multidrug resistance, commonly associated with treatment of ovarian cancer. We propose that ion channel studies can facilitate our understanding of the pathobiology of ovarian cancer and, ultimately, can serve as viable novel targets for its clinical management.
A large-scale sequencing screen of X-linked synaptic genes in individuals with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) or schizophrenia (SCZ), two common neurodevelopmental disorders, identified many variants most of which have no easily predictable effect on gene function. In this report, we evaluated the impact of these rare missense and silent variants on gene splicing. For this purpose, we used complementary in silico analyses, in vitro minigene-based assays and RNA prepared from lymphoblastoid cells derived from patients with these mutations. Our goal was to identify the variants which might either create or disrupt an acceptor splice site, a donor splice site or an exonic splicing enhancer, thus leading to aberrant splicing that could be involved in the pathogenesis of ASD or SCZ. We identified truncating mutations in distinct X-linked gamma-aminobutyric acid A (GABAA) receptor subunit-encoding genes, GABRQ and GABRA3, in two different families. Furthermore, missense and silent variants in nuclear RNA export factor 5 and histone deacetylase 6 were shown to partially disrupt the protein. While genes from the GABAergic pathway have previously been thought to be involved in the pathophysiology of ASD, this is the first report of ASD patients with truncating mutations in GABA receptors genes.





A key feature of early visual cortical regions is that they contain discretely organized retinotopic maps. Titration of these maps must occur through experience, and the fidelity of their spatial tuning will depend on the consistency and accuracy of the eye movement system. Anomalies in fixation patterns and the ballistics of eye movements are well documented in autism spectrum disorder (ASD), with off-center fixations a hallmark of the phenotype. We hypothesized that these atypicalities might affect the development of visuo-spatial maps and specifically that peripheral inputs might receive altered processing in ASD. Using high-density recordings of visual evoked potentials (VEPs) and a novel system-identification approach known as VESPA (visual evoked spread spectrum analysis), we assessed sensory responses to centrally and peripherally presented stimuli. Additionally, input luminance was varied to bias responsiveness to the magnocellular system, given previous suggestions of magnocellular-specific deficits in ASD. Participants were 22 ASD children (7-17years of age) and 31 age- and performance-IQ-matched neurotypical controls. Both VEP and VESPA responses to central presentations were indistinguishable between groups. In contrast, peripheral presentations resulted in significantly greater early VEP and VESPA amplitudes in the ASD cohort. We found no evidence that anomalous enhancement was restricted to magnocellular-biased responses. The extent of peripheral response enhancement was related to the severity of stereotyped behaviors and restricted interests, cardinal symptoms of ASD. The current results point to differential visuo-spatial cortical mapping in ASD, shedding light on the consequences of peculiarities in gaze and stereotyped visual behaviors often reported by clinicians working with this population.
Short-term information retention is crucial for information processing in the brain. It has long been suggested that the hippocampal CA3 region is able to support short-term information retention through persistent neural firing. Theoretical studies have shown that this persistent firing can be supported by abundant excitatory recurrent connections in CA3. However, it remains unclear whether individual cells can support persistent firing. In this study, using in vitro whole-cell patch-clamp recordings in a rat hippocampal slice preparation, we show that hippocampal CA3 pyramidal cells support persistent firing under perfusion of the cholinergic agonist carbachol (10 m). Furthermore, in contrast to earlier theoretical studies, this persistent firing is independent of ionotropic glutamatergic synaptic transmission and is supported by the calcium-activated non-selective cationic current. Because cholinergic receptor activation is crucial for short-term memory tasks, persistent firing in individual cells may support short-term information retention in the hippocampal CA3 region.
In contrast to mammals, adult zebrafish recover locomotor function after spinal cord injury, in part due to the capacity of the central nervous system to repair severed connections. To identify molecular cues that underlie regeneration, we conducted mRNA expression profiling and found that syntenin-a expression is upregulated in the adult zebrafish spinal cord caudal to the lesion site after injury. Syntenin is a scaffolding protein involved in mammalian cell adhesion and movement, axonal outgrowth, establishment of cell polarity, and protein trafficking. It could thus be expected to be involved in supporting regeneration in fish. Syntenin-a mRNA and protein are expressed in neurons, glia and newly generated neural cells, and upregulated caudal to the lesion site on days 6 and 11 following spinal cord injury. Treatment of spinal cord-injured fish with two different antisense morpholinos to knock down syntenin-a expression resulted in significant inhibition of locomotor recovery at 5 and 6 weeks after injury, when compared to control morpholino-treated fish. Knock-down of syntenin-a reduced regrowth of descending axons from brainstem neurons into the spinal cord caudal to the lesion site. These observations indicate that syntenin-a is involved in regeneration after traumatic insult to the central nervous system of adult zebrafish, potentially leading to novel insights into the cellular and molecular mechanisms that require activation in the regeneration-deficient mammalian central nervous system.
Nearly all species engage in a variety of intraspecific social interactions, and there is evidence that these interactions are rewarding. Less is known, however, about the factors that influence social reward. Using the conditioned place preference paradigm, we tested whether social interactions are rewarding for male Syrian hamsters. We also tested whether social stimuli increase neural activation in the ventral tegmental area (VTA), a component of the mesolimbic reward system, and how individual differences in social behavior and experience influence neural activation. In the present study, we found that hamsters developed a conditioned place preference for social interactions, but the effects were significantly stronger in dominant animals compared with subordinates. The number of Fos-immunoreactive cells in the VTA was significantly higher in hamsters that had engaged in a direct social encounter compared with hamsters exposed to a caged stimulus hamster or controls. Interestingly, socially experienced males had more Fos-immunoreactive cells in the VTA than socially naive males after exposure to a social stimulus. Surprisingly, the amount of Fos immunoreactivity in the VTA induced by a social stimulus was correlated with the amount of aggressive/dominance behaviors that had been observed during interactions that had occurred 2 months earlier. Our results indicate that social interactions between males are rewarding, and that social dominance increases the reward value. Social interactions stimulate the mesolimbic reward system, and social experience enhances its response to novel social stimuli and may produce long-term changes in the neural mechanisms that mediate the maintenance of dominance over long periods of time.
Animal physiological and human psychophysical studies suggest that an early step in visual processing involves the detection and identification of features such as lines and edges, by neural mechanisms with even- and odd-symmetric receptive fields. Functional imaging studies also demonstrate mechanisms with even- and odd-receptive fields in early visual areas, in response to luminance-modulated stimuli. In this study we measured fMRI BOLD responses to 2-D stimuli composed of only even or only odd symmetric features, and to an amplitude-matched random noise control, modulated in red-green equiluminant colour contrast. All these stimuli had identical power but different phase spectra, either highly congruent (even or odd symmetry stimuli) or random (noise). At equiluminance, V1 BOLD activity showed no preference between congruent- and random-phase stimuli, as well as no preference between even and odd symmetric stimuli. Areas higher in the visual hierarchy, both along the dorsal pathway (caudal part of the intraparietal sulcus, dorsal LO and V3A) and the ventral pathway (V4), responded preferentially to odd symmetry over even symmetry stimuli, and to congruent over random phase stimuli. Interestingly, V1 showed an equal increase in BOLD activity at each alternation between stimuli of different symmetry, suggesting the existence of specialised mechanisms for the detection of edges and lines such as even- and odd-chromatic receptive fields. Overall the results indicate a high selectivity of colour-selective neurons to spatial phase along both the dorsal and the ventral pathways in humans.
Deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the subthalamic nucleus is increasingly being employed as a treatment for parkinsonian symptoms, including tremor. The present studies used tremulous jaw movements, a pharmacological model of tremor in rodents, to investigate the tremorolytic effects of subthalamic DBS in rats. Subthalamic DBS reduced the tremulous jaw movements induced by the dopamine D2 family antagonist pimozide and the D1 family antagonist ecopipam, as well as the cholinomimetics pilocarpine and galantamine. The ability of DBS to suppress tremulous jaw movements was dependent on the neuroanatomical locus being stimulated (subthalamic nucleus vs. a striatal control site), as well as the frequency and intensity of stimulation used. Importantly, administration of the adenosine A2A receptor antagonist MSX-3 reduced the frequency and intensity parameters needed to attenuate tremulous jaw movements. These results have implications for the clinical use of DBS, and future studies should determine whether adenosine A2A antagonism could be used to enhance the tremorolytic efficacy of subthalamic DBS at low frequencies and intensities in human patients.
Mechanotransduction is the basis of several sensory modalities, including touch, hearing, proprioception and gravity sensation. Despite its importance to sensory processing and behavior, the molecular mechanisms underlying mechanotransduction remain to be fully understood. In particular, the identity of the ion channels serving mechanotransduction is still unknown in many species. Drosophila melanogaster nompC (no mechanoreceptor potential C) has been shown to be essential for mechanotransduction in flies, yet there is no direct evidence demonstrating that NOMPC is indeed a mechanotransducing ion channel in Drosophila. To dissect the functional roles of NOMPC in mechanotransduction, we found that NOMPC-dependent transient adapting mechanoreceptor current (MRC) in the external bristle sensory organ was also chloride dependent. However, this chloride-dependent current was not necessary for spike generation. Furthermore, ectopic expression of wild-type NOMPC conferred mechanosensitivity on the interneurons in the antennal lobe (AL) and cation-mediated inward mechanocurrent was recorded, while a point mutation in the putative selective filter region of NOMPC failed to produce the mechanocurrent in the AL interneurons. These functional studies imply that NOMPC is likely to be a crucial component of mechanotransducers that accounts for mechanotransductions in mechanosensory neurons of Drosophila.
Although microglia is recognised as the cell-mediating innate immunity in the brain, emerging evidence suggests a role of microglia in synaptic communication and modulation. The ability of microglia to move in the neuropil and contact synapses is crucial for such a function. However, the frequency of microglial contact with synapses is not known. Microglia motility is regulated by actin polymerisation and its interaction with ionising calcium-binding adaptor protein 1 (Iba1). In order to move and make contact with synapses, delicate microglial processes should contain high levels of actin and Iba1. To study this we refined an electron microscopic postembedding immunogold method enabling us to identify and quantitatively study different microglial constituents in intact brain tissue. We show that Iba1 and actin were colocalised at high densities in delicate processes in the rat frontal cortex, and that these delicate processes of microglia contact synaptic elements. About 3.5% of the synapses received direct contact from microglia. There was a marked inverse correlation between the densities of Iba1/actin gold particles and the area of the microglial processes, suggesting that the most delicate processes possess the machinery to provide movement in the neuropil. The low frequency of microglia interaction with synaptic elements suggests that microglia have a limited role in overall regulation of synaptic activity.
Eyeblink classical conditioning (EBCC) is a cerebellum-dependent paradigm of associative motor learning, and abnormal EBCC is a neurophysiological indicator of cerebellar dysfunction. We have previously demonstrated impaired EBCC in patients with primary dystonia, but it remains uncertain if this represents actual cerebellar pathology or reflects a functional cerebellar disruption. We examined this further by: (1) studying acquisition and retention of EBCC in a second session in eight patients with cervical dystonia (CD) who had a first session 7-10days earlier; and (2) by investigating the potential of continuous theta burst stimulation (cTBS) over the right cerebellar hemisphere to modify a first-ever EBCC session in 11 patients with CD. EBCC data of eight healthy controls previously studied were used for additional between-group comparisons. We observed an improvement of EBCC in a second session in patients with CD, which is in contrast to patients with proven cerebellar pathology who do not show further improvement of EBCC in additional sessions. We also found that cerebellar cTBS paradoxically normalized EBCC in patients with CD, while we previously showed that it disrupts EBCC in healthy volunteers. Combined, these two experiments are in keeping with a functional and reversible disruption of the cerebellum in dystonia, a phenomenon that is probably secondary to either cerebellar compensation or to cerebellar recruitment in the abnormal sensorimotor network.

The variable number of tandem repeat polymorphism in the 3'-untranslated region of the dopamine transporter gene (DAT) may influence the variability of the therapeutic response to methylphenidate (MPH) in Attention Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD). For this reason we evaluated the neuropsychological functioning after a prolonged period of MPH treatment and after a specific time from MPH suspension. Relationship between DAT VNTR genotypes and neurocognitive response to MPH was analyzed in a sample of 108 drug-naive ADHD patients. The performance of children with ADHD on measures of working memory, inhibition and planning was assessed at 4, 8 and 24 weeks and at 8 weeks after MPH withdrawal. Patients with 9/9 genotype evidenced an improvement in response inhibition and working memory only at 4 weeks of treatment, in planning at 24 weeks of therapy and after 8 weeks of MPH suspension. Patients with 9/10 showed an improvement in response inhibition at 4, 8 and 24 weeks of treatment, in planning at 24 weeks and after 8 weeks of MPH suspension. Patients with 10/10 evidenced an improvement in response inhibition and working memory at 4, 8 and 24 weeks of treatment and in planning at 4, 8 and 24 weeks of treatment and after 8 weeks of suspension. These results indicate that the 9/9 ADHD genotype has a different response at 24 weeks treatment with MPH. 10/10 DAT allele seems to be associated with an increased expression level of the dopamine transporter and seems to mediate the MPH treatment response in ADHD patients.

The objective of this study was to examine exercise effects on global brain volume, hippocampal volume, and cortical thickness in schizophrenia patients and healthy controls. Irrespective of diagnosis and intervention, associations between brain changes and cardiorespiratory fitness improvement were examined. Sixty-three schizophrenia patients and fifty-five healthy controls participated in this randomised controlled trial. Global brain volumes, hippocampal volume, and cortical thickness were estimated from 3-Tesla MRI scans. Cardiorespiratory fitness was assessed with a cardiopulmonary ergometer test. Subjects were assigned exercise therapy or occupational therapy (patients) and exercise therapy or life-as-usual (healthy controls) for six months 2h weekly. Exercise therapy effects were analysed for subjects who were compliant at least 50% of sessions offered. Significantly smaller baseline cerebral (grey) matter, and larger third ventricle volumes, and thinner cortex in most areas of the brain were found in patients versus controls. Exercise therapy did not affect global brain and hippocampal volume or cortical thickness in patients and controls. Cardiorespiratory fitness improvement was related to increased cerebral matter volume and lateral and third ventricle volume decrease in patients and to thickening in the left hemisphere in large areas of the frontal, temporal and cingulate cortex irrespective of diagnosis. One to 2h of exercise therapy did not elicit significant brain volume changes in patients or controls. However, cardiorespiratory fitness improvement attenuated brain volume changes in schizophrenia patients and increased thickness in large areas of the left cortex in both schizophrenia patients and healthy controls.
Diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) allows the study of white matter (WM) structure. Literature suggests that WM structure could be altered in obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) proportional to the severity of the disease. Heterogeneity of brain imaging methods, of the studied samples, and of drug treatments make localization, nature, and severity of the WM abnormalities unclear. We applied Tract-Based Spatial Statistics (TBSS) of DTI measures to compare fractional anisotropy (FA), mean, axial, and radial diffusivity of the WM skeleton in a group of 40 consecutively admitted inpatients affected by severe OCD (18 drug-naive, and 22 with an ongoing drug treatment) and 41 unrelated healthy volunteers from the general population. Data were analyzed accounting for the effects of multiple comparisons, and of age, sex, and education as nuisance covariates. Compared to controls, OCD patients showed a widespread reduction of FA with a concurrent increase of mean and radial diffusivity. In no brain areas patients had higher FA or lower diffusivity values than controls. These differences were observed in drug-treated patients compared to drug-naive patients and healthy controls, which in turn did not differ among themselves in any DTI measure. Reduced FA with increased mean and radial diffusivity suggests significant changes in myelination of WM tracts, without axonal loss. Drug treatments could modify the structure of cell membranes and myelin sheaths by influencing cellular lipogenesis, cholesterol homeostasis, autophagy, oligodendrocyte differentiation and remyelination. Changes of DTI measures in drug-treated OCD patients could reflect pathophysiological underpinnings of OCD, or a yet unexplored part of the mechanism of action of drugs.
Schizophrenia (SZ) is a complex psychiatric disorder with a large genetic burden and an estimated hereditability of 80%. A large number of neuroanatomical and psychopharmacological studies suggest a central role of the endocannabinoid (eCB) system in the susceptibility of the disease. To further investigate this hypothesis, we performed an association study with genes codifying for key elements of the eCB system in a sample of 170 schizophrenic patients and 350 healthy controls of Italian ancestry. A total of 57 Tag SNPs (tSNPs) were selected using HapMap CEU population SNP database spanning the following genes: cannabinoid receptor 1 (CNR1), peroxisome proliferator activator receptor- (PPARA), fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH) and N-acyl phosphatidylethanolamine phospholipase D (NAPE-PLD). Seven out of the 32 tSNPs within PPARA (rs4253765, rs4263776, rs6007662, rs1800206, rs4253763, rs6008197 and rs4253655) and 3 out of 12 tSNPs within CNR1 (rs1049353, rs7766029 and rs806366) were nominally associated with SZ (uncorrected p&lt;0.05). The same pattern of association was observed in the genotype analysis, with rs4253765 showing the highest level of significance (uncorrected p=210(-3)). None of these associations survived after permutation test. Our findings suggest a potential role for PPARA in the susceptibility to SZ, but further studies on larger independent samples are warranted in order to clarify the involvement of this gene in the pathophysiology of SZ.
Introduction: both human and animal studies have shown a somewhat complex COMT-by-sex interaction effect on brain function and dysfunction. A functional variation in the gene coding for the catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) enzyme, which metabolizes dopamine and noradrenaline, has been related to executive and emotional functions, and to sex dimorphism. Aim: to investigate if COMT Val158Met genotype influences startle response in pregnant women, given their physiologically elevated estradiol levels. Methods: seventy-three pregnant women were assessed in gestational week 38 for acoustic startle response, measured by electromyography of the blink reflex, during control condition, positive and negative anticipation stimuli, and pleasant and unpleasant image stimuli. A blood sample was taken for measurement of estradiol levels and genetic analysis. Results: the results indicated a COMT Val158Met effect on startle response across all conditions (main effect of genotype, F(2,70=3.58), p=0.033), where Val/Val women displayed higher startle magnitudes than Val/Met carriers (Cohen's d=0.71). No significant difference by genotype was found in affective modulation. The findings also suggested an estrogen dose-dependent effect of COMT Val158Met on startle reflex. Among women with higher pregnancy-induced estradiol levels, Val/Val carriers had markedly higher startle response across conditions than heterozygotes (Cohen's d=1.36; F(4,21=11.07); p=0.003), while this effect was not present in women with estradiol levels under the median concentration. Conclusions: the observed effect of COMT Val158Met by estradiol on overall startle response is likely to be due to a variable noradrenergic transmission depending on COMT activity in a possible interaction with estradiol.
Obsessive-compulsive and related disorders (O-CRDs) are highly disabling psychiatric illnesses of early-onset. They are responsible for considerable morbidity and socioeconomic burden. Existing treatments are usually only partially successful and there is an urgent need to understand the aetiological factors and neurobiological bases of the disorders in order to develop new and more effective strategies for prevention, early detection and effective treatment. Emerging data from the neurosciences supports the reconceptualisation of obsessive-compulsive disorder as a spectrum disorder, related to but different from the anxiety disorders and closely aligned with other less well understood psychiatric disorders characterised by compulsive acts such as body dysmorphic disorder, trichotillomania, skin-picking disorder, hoarding disorder; and possibly extending to tic disorders and other neurodevelopmental disorders such as autism. A new, O-CRDs research network, supported by the Networks Initiative of the European College of Neuropsychopharmacology and comprising leading figures in preclinical and clinical research, has been established. It aims to provide a European perspective on the current debate around internationally-accepted diagnostic criteria and treatment strategies for O-CRDs. Its objectives include; (1) identifying the key outstanding research questions that depend upon cross-centre collaborative investigation, (2) setting a research agenda that is likely to produce an impact on health-outcomes, and (3) strengthening existing projects and collaborative enterprises with these objectives in mind. This paper reviews some of these critical research priorities. By establishing shared multinational databases, collaborative research networks, multicentre studies and joint publications, it is hoped that progress will be achieved.

Operant escape from nociceptive thermal stimulation of 13 Long-Evans rats was compared before and after lateral spinal hemisection, to determine whether this lesion configuration provides an appropriate preclinical model of the hyperalgesia that can be associated with human spinal cord injury. Escape from 44C and from 47C stimulation was not affected following sham spinal surgery but was significantly reduced over 20weeks of postoperative testing following lateral spinal hemisection. This result is opposite to previous reports of enhanced reflex withdrawal in response to thermal stimulation of rats following lateral spinal hemisection. In addition, the latency of reflexive lick/guard responses to 44C was increased and the duration of lick/guard responding was decreased in the present study (hyporeflexia). Thus, previous assessments of simple withdrawal reflexes have described a hyperreflexia following lateral spinal hemisection that was not replicated by lick/guard testing, and postoperative escape responding revealed hypoalgesia rather than the increased pain sensitivity expected in a model of chronic pain.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) allows an in vivo assessment of the rate of muscle relaxation during a voluntary contraction. It is unknown if this method can be applied to lower limb muscles, and the effect of stimulus intensity on relaxation rate has not been investigated in any muscle group. The present study sought to address these unknowns. A secondary aim was to test the sensitivity of the method to a change in muscle length by comparing the relaxation rate of the plantar flexor muscles with the gastrocnemius at short and long lengths. Seven subjects performed 21 maximal voluntary isometric contractions (MVCs) of the dorsiflexors (DF) and plantar flexors with a knee angle of either 90 or 180 (PF90 and PF180, respectively). TMS intensity ranged from 40 to 100% stimulator output in intervals of 10%. Relaxation rates increased with stimulus intensity but were equivalent to maximal output at 50 (DF and PF90) or 60% (PF180). MVC torque was greater, and the rate of relaxation was faster for PF180 compared to PF90. The main findings are that TMS can be used to measure relaxation rates of lower limb muscles, and these rates are robust provided the stimulus intensity is above a critical threshold. The dependency of plantar flexor relaxation rate on the length of the fast-twitch gastrocnemius fibers reinforces published temperature and fatigue data which show that the method is sensitive to the contractile properties of the muscle fibers which are actively contributing to torque production.
The ability to predict accurately the weights of objects is essential for skilled and dexterous manipulation. A potentially important source of information about object weight is through the observation of other people lifting objects. Here, we tested the hypothesis that when watching an actor lift an object, people naturally learn the object's weight and use this information to scale forces when they subsequently lift the object themselves. Participants repeatedly lifted an object in turn with an actor. Object weight unpredictably changed between 2 and 7N every 5th to 9th of the actor's lifts, and the weight lifted by the participant always matched that previously lifted by the actor. Even though the participants were uninformed about the structure of the experiment, they appropriately adapted their lifting force in the first trial after a weight change. Thus, participants updated their internal representation about the object's weight, for use in action, when watching a single lift performed by the actor. This ability presumably involves the comparison of predicted and actual sensory information related to actor's actions, a comparison process that is also fundamental in action.
In our ability to selectively inhibit a subset of concurrent response tendencies, referred to as selective response inhibition, stopping-interference (SI) effects have been found and attributed to global inhibitory processes. In the standard stop-signal paradigm, the stop signal might not only signal stopping but also produce other effects simply by virtue of being an additional signal. Therefore, we investigated whether previously observed SI effects reflect not only selective response inhibition but also other effects caused by the appearance of the stop signal. In Experiment 1, we controlled for the possible extra influences of the stop signal and still found SI effects, allowing a more confident attribution of SI effects to global inhibitory processes. Furthermore, the extra signal affected the motor system, as revealed by a reduction in SI effects on response force after the improved control. Using the lateralized readiness potential, Experiment 2 showed that the extra signal affected relatively central motor processing. The findings thus advance our knowledge about the distinction between signal-related and motor-inhibitory effects in stop-signal tasks.
This study explored the influence of an external support at the thoracic and pelvic level of the trunk on the success of reaching, postural stability and reaching kinematics while infants reached for a toy. Seventeen infants (4-6months) were clustered into two groups according to their trunk control assessed with the Segmental Assessment of Trunk Control. Major differences were seen between groups with pelvic support, whereas with thoracic support, all infants showed similar quality reaching behaviors. With the external pelvic support, infants who had acquired trunk control in the lumbar region were more accurate in their reaching movements (less movement time, improved straightness of reach, less movement units and increased path length per movement unit) and were more stable (decreased trunk and head displacement) during a reach than infants who had only acquired trunk control in the thoracic region. These results support the hypothesis that trunk control influences the quality of reaching behavior.
Interaction with objects in the environment typically requires integrating information concerning the object location with the position and size of body parts. The former information is coded in a multisensory representation of the space around the body, a representation of peripersonal space (PPS), whereas the latter is enabled by an online, constantly updated, action-orientated multisensory representation of the body (BR). Using a tool to act upon relatively distant objects extends PPS representation. This effect has been interpreted as indicating that tools can be incorporated into BR. However, empirical data showing that tool-use simultaneously affects PPS representation and BR are lacking. To study this issue, we assessed the extent of PPS representation by means of an audio-tactile interaction task and BR by means of a tactile distance perception task and a body-landmarks localisation task, before and after using a 1-m-long tool to reach far objects. Tool-use extended the representation of PPS along the tool axis and concurrently shaped BR; after tool-use, subjects perceived their forearm narrower and longer compared to before tool-use, a shape more similar to the one of the tool. Tool-use was necessary to induce these effects, since a pointing task did not affect PPS and BR. These results show that a brief training with a tool induces plastic changes both to the perceived dimensions of the body part acting upon the tool and to the space around it, suggesting a strong overlap between peripersonal space and body representation.

A summary of the Eleventh International Symposium on the Neurobiology and Neuroendocrinology of Aging that was held in July 29-August 3 in Bregenz, Austria, is presented. Sixteen of the speakers who presented at the conference submitted review papers covering the topic of their presentation as well as an overview of their respective fields and are included in this special issue. The abstracts from each poster presentation are also included at the end of the special issue.
Complex interactions link psychological stress and aging - stress generally promotes aging processes, and conversely, aging can contribute to stress dysregulation. Stress and aging have remarkably similar effects on brain. Both induce neuroinflammation and alter neuronal metabolism and activity, which to varying extents are causally-linked to the development of stress and aging pathology. As such, induction of one or more of these brain disturbances by either stress or aging could predispose for the development of dysfunction in the other. Notably, peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor  (PPAR) is expressed in brain regions that regulate both stress and aging (e.g., hippocampus) and can act to prevent the consequences of aging and stress on the brain. In addition, PPAR agonists reduce the physiological stress response itself. Thus, PPAR may represent a critical mechanistic link between brain aging and stress that could hold therapeutic potential for the prevention and treatment of age-related cognitive and mood disorders.
Neocortical neurons can be classified in four major electrophysiological types according to their pattern of discharge: regular-spiking (RS), intrinsically-bursting (IB), fast-rhythmic-bursting (FRB), and fast-spiking (FS). Previously, we have shown that these firing patterns are not fixed and can change as a function of membrane potential and states of vigilance. Other studies have reported that extracellular calcium concentration ([Ca(2+)]o) fluctuates as a function of the phase of the cortical slow oscillation. In the present study we investigated how spontaneous and induced changes in [Ca(2+)]o affect the properties of action potentials (APs) and firing patterns in cortical neurons in vivo. Intracellular recordings were performed in cats anesthetized with ketamine-xylazine during spontaneous [Ca(2+)]o fluctuation and while changing [Ca(2+)]o with reverse microdialysis. When [Ca(2+)]o fluctuated spontaneously according to the phase of the slow oscillation, we found an increase of the firing threshold and a decrease of the afterhyperpolarization (AHP) amplitude during the depolarizing (active, up) phase of the slow oscillation and some neurons also changed their firing pattern as compared with the hyperpolarizing (silent, down) phase. Induced changes in [Ca(2+)]o significantly affected the AP properties in all neurons. The AHP amplitude was increased in high calcium conditions and decreased in low calcium conditions, in particular the earliest components. Modulation of spike AHP resulted in notable modulation of intrinsic firing pattern and some RS neurons revealed burst firing when [Ca(2+)]o was decreased. We also found an increase in AHP amplitude in high [Ca(2+)]o with in vitro preparation. We suggest that during spontaneous network oscillations in vivo, the dynamic changes of firing patterns depend partially on fluctuations of the [Ca(2+)]o.
Since the first descriptions of sensorimotor rhythms by Berger (1929) and by Jasper and Penfield (1949), the potential role of beta oscillations (~13-30 Hz) in the brain has been intensely investigated. We start this review by showing that experimental studies in humans and monkeys have reached a consensus on the facts that sensorimotor beta power is low during movement, transiently increases after movement end (the &quot;beta rebound&quot;) and tonically increases during object grasping. Recently, a new surge of studies exploiting more complex sensorimotor tasks including multiple events, such as instructed delay tasks, reveal novel characteristics of beta oscillatory activity. We therefore proceed by critically reviewing also this literature to understand whether modulations of beta oscillations in task epochs other than those during and after movement are consistent across studies, and whether they can be reconciled with a role for beta oscillations in sensorimotor transmission. We indeed find that there are additional processes that also strongly affect sensorimotor beta oscillations, such as visual cue anticipation and processing, fitting with the view that beta oscillations reflect heightened sensorimotor transmission beyond somatosensation. However, there are differences among studies, which may be interpreted more readily if we assume multiple processes, whose effects on the overall measured beta power overlap in time. We conclude that beta oscillations observed in sensorimotor cortex may serve large-scale communication between sensorimotor and other areas and the periphery.
The human sensorimotor cortex demonstrates a variety of oscillatory activity that is strongly modulated by movement and somatosensory input. Studies using scalp EEG and intracranial electrical recordings have provided much of our current knowledge regarding the frequency and temporal specificity of these sensorimotor rhythms and their relationship to various movement parameters, however with limitations in identifying the underlying neural sources, and the variety of motor behaviors that can be studied, respectively. Magnetoencephalography (MEG) recordings, combined with spatial filtering source reconstruction methods, provide an ideal non-invasive method for the localization of sensorimotor rhythms and for describing their precise time course during a variety of motor tasks. This review describes the application of MEG to the study of oscillatory activity in the human sensorimotor cortex, including advances in localization techniques and recent contributions of MEG to our understanding of the functional role of these oscillations in both adult and developmental populations.
Metabolites of the commonly used imidazole fungicide prochloraz are androgen receptor antagonists. They have been shown to block androgen-driven development and compromise reproductive function. We tested the effect of prochloraz on cognitive behavior following exposure to this fungicide during the perinatal period. Pregnant Wistar rats were administered a 200 mg/kg dose of prochloraz on gestational day (GD) 7, GD11, and GD15. The social recognition test (SRT) was performed on 7-week-old male rat offspring. We found an increase in pregnancy length and a significantly reduced pup weight on PND15 and PND40 but no effect of prenatal prochloraz exposure on social investigation or acquisition of social-olfactory memory.

Studies have shown that there are several factors that predict nonadherence among patients with mood disorders. The aim of the present review is to identify the predictors of nonadherence among these patients. A careful review of the literature was conducted investigating several potential predictors of nonadherence among patients with mood disorders. A total of 217 relevant articles from peer-reviewed journals were considered, and articles that met our inclusion criteria (n = 54) were selected for this review. The authors identified several predictors of nonadherence among patients with mood disorders including younger age (below 40 years old), comorbidity with substance use and personality disorders, patients' beliefs, poor insight, illness severity, treatment-related side effects, specific features of the disease and a poor therapeutic alliance. Substance use disorder and illness severity are significant predictors of nonadherence especially in patients with bipolar disorder; whereas, treatment side effects are of primary importance for depressive disorder. The authors could not carry out a meta-analysis given that the studies considered in this review assessed patients at different time points and included different measurements of nonadherence. Moreover, articles cited in this review may reflect the authors' choice, and the authors did not investigate the adherence to a specific class of drugs commonly used in the management of mood disorders. Given the high social, clinical and economic impact of nonadherence among patients who are affected by mood disorders, it is critical to recognize patients at high risk of nonadherence in order to inform future strategies to examine and improve adherence to treatment. Further research is needed to clarify this issue.
Epidemiological studies show that maternal viral infection during pregnancy plays a key role in the etiology of neurodevelopmental disorders, such as schizophrenia and autism. Prenatal maternal immune activation and peripubertal psychological stress are key environmental risk factors for neurodevelopmental disorders. Viral mimic polyriboinosinic-polyribocytidylic acid is known to act as a Toll-like receptor-3 agonist. Polyriboinosinic-polyribocytidylic acid has been typically used to establish this rodent model of prenatal immune activation. Recently, Giovanoli et al. reported on a new neurodevelopmental model of schizophrenia based on combined prenatal immune activation and peripubertal stress. In this report, we place these findings into context and discuss their significance.
In mammals, melatonin is the pivotal messenger synchronizing biological functions, notably reproductive activity, with annual daylength changes. Recently, two major findings clarified melatonin's mode of action. First, melatonin controls the production of thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) by the pars tuberalis of the adenohypophysis. This TSH regulates local thyroid hormone availability in the mediobasal hypothalamus. Second, the RF-amides kisspeptin and RFRP-3, recently discovered regulators of the gonadotropic axis, are involved in the melatonin control of reproduction. This study aims to establish a mechanistic link between the melatonin-driven TSH and the RF-amide control of reproduction. We treated short-day-adapted male Djungarian and Syrian hamsters with a chronic central infusion of TSH. In both hamster species, the central administration of 5 mIU/d TSH for 4 to 6 wk restored the summer phenotype of both testicular activity and kisspeptin and RFRP expression. Vehicle treated hamsters remain sexually inactive. Furthermore, the TSH treatment increased the body weight of lean short-day-adapted Djungarian hamsters and reduced hypothalamic somatostatin expression to the summer phenotype. In summary, our study demonstrates the pivotal role of melatonin-driven TSH for the seasonal regulation of reproduction and body weight, and uncovers the neuropeptides relaying this signal within the hypothalamus.
We investigate the hypothesis that oxidative damage of the cerebral vascular barrier interface (the blood-brain barrier, BBB) causes the development of mild traumatic brain injury (TBI) during a primary blast-wave spectrum. The underlying biochemical and cellular mechanisms of this vascular layer-structure injury are examined in a novel animal model of shock tube. We first established that low-frequency (123kPa) single or repeated shock wave causes BBB/brain injury through biochemical activation by an acute mechanical force that occurs 6-24h after the exposure. This biochemical damage of the cerebral vasculature is initiated by the induction of the free radical-generating enzymes NADPH oxidase 1 and inducible nitric oxide synthase. Induction of these enzymes by shock-wave exposure paralleled the signatures of oxidative and nitrosative damage (4-HNE/3-NT) and reduction of the BBB tight-junction (TJ) proteins occludin, claudin-5, and zonula occluden 1 in the brain microvessels. In parallel with TJ protein disruption, the perivascular unit was significantly diminished by single or repeated shock-wave exposure coinciding with the kinetic profile. Loosening of the vasculature and perivascular unit was mediated by oxidative stress-induced activation of matrix metalloproteinases and fluid channel aquaporin-4, promoting vascular fluid cavitation/edema, enhanced leakiness of the BBB, and progression of neuroinflammation. The BBB leakiness and neuroinflammation were functionally demonstrated in an in vivo model by enhanced permeativity of Evans blue and sodium fluorescein low-molecular-weight tracers and the infiltration of immune cells across the BBB. The detection of brain cell proteins neuron-specific enolase and S100 in the blood samples validated the neuroastroglial injury in shock-wave TBI. Our hypothesis that cerebral vascular injury occurs before the development of neurological disorders in mild TBI was further confirmed by the activation of caspase-3 and cell apoptosis mostly around the perivascular region. Thus, induction of oxidative stress and activation of matrix metalloproteinases by shock wave underlie the mechanisms of cerebral vascular BBB leakage and neuroinflammation.
At the beginning of the 1990s, as part of work being done for a master's degree thesis in physics, an important observation of hippocampal degeneration in Alzheimer's disease was made in Pavia. However this result was never published in a full scientific paper. This case gives an idea of how an isolated observation can, in the right setting, develop into a real scientific achievement.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is a flexible and widely available neuroimaging technique. Structural MRI and diffusion MRI, in particular, provide information about connectivity between brain regions which may be combined to obtain a picture of entire neural networks, or the so-called connectome. In this review we outline the principles of MR-based connectivity analysis, discuss what relevant information it can provide for clinical and non-clinical neuroscience research, and outline some of the outstanding needs which future work will aim to meet.
One of the most fascinating challenges in neuroscience is the reconstruction of the connectivity map of the brain. Recent years have seen a rapid expansion in the field of connectomics, whose aim is to trace this map and understand its relationship with neural computation. Many different approaches, ranging from electron and optical microscopy to magnetic resonance imaging, have been proposed to address the connectomics challenge on various spatial scales and in different species. Here, we review the main technological advances in the microscopy techniques applied to connectomics, highlighting the potential and limitations of the different methods. Finally, we briefly discuss the role of connectomics in the Human Brain Project, the Future and Emerging Technologies (FET) Flagship recently approved by the European Commission.
Although twenty-first century neuroscience is a major scientific enterprise, advances in basic research have not yet translated into benefits for society. In this paper, I outline seven fundamental challenges that need to be overcome. First, neuroscience has to become &quot;big science&quot; - we need big teams with the resources and competences to tackle the big problems. Second, we need to create interlinked sets of data providing a complete picture of single areas of the brain at their different levels of organization with &quot;rungs&quot; linking the descriptions for humans and other species. Such &quot;data ladders&quot; will help us to meet the third challenge - the development of efficient predictive tools, enabling us to drastically increase the information we can extract from expensive experiments. The fourth challenge goes one step further: we have to develop novel hardware and software sufficiently powerful to simulate the brain. In the future, supercomputer-based brain simulation will enable us to make in silico manipulations and recordings, which are currently completely impossible in the lab. The fifth and sixth challenges are translational. On the one hand we need to develop new ways of classifying and simulating brain disease, leading to better diagnosis and more effective drug discovery. On the other, we have to exploit our knowledge to build new brain-inspired technologies, with potentially huge benefits for industry and for society. This leads to the seventh challenge. Neuroscience can indeed deliver huge benefits but we have to be aware of widespread social concern about our work. We need to recognize the fears that exist, lay them to rest, and actively build public support for neuroscience research. We have to set goals for ourselves that the public can recognize and share. And then we have to deliver on our promises. Only in this way, will we receive the support and funding we need.

Successful animal reproduction depends on multiple physiological and behavioral processes that take place in a timely and orderly manner in both mating partners. It is not only necessary that all relevant processes are well coordinated, they also need to be adjusted to external factors of abiotic and biotic nature (e.g. population density, mating partner availability). Therefore, it is not surprising that several hormonal factors play a crucial role in the regulation of animal reproductive physiology. In insects (the largest class of animals on planet Earth), lipophilic hormones, such as ecdysteroids and juvenile hormones, as well as several neuropeptides take part in this complex regulation. While some peptides can affect reproduction via an indirect action (e.g. by influencing secretion of juvenile hormone), others exert their regulatory activity by directly targeting the reproductive system. In addition to insect peptides with proven activities, several others were suggested to also play a role in the regulation of reproductive physiology. Because of the long evolutionary history of many insect orders, it is not always clear to what extent functional data obtained in a given species can be extrapolated to other insect taxa. In this paper, we will review the current knowledge concerning the neuropeptidergic regulation of insect reproduction and situate it in a more general physiological context.
The melanocortin 2 receptor (MC2R) accessory proteins, MRAP, along with its homolog, MRAP2, are two among a growing number of G protein-coupled receptor accessory proteins that have been identified in recent years. These proteins interact directly with MC2R and are essential for trafficking of this receptor from the endoplasmic reticulum to the cell surface, where it mediates the effects of ACTH. lthough earlier studies have identified MRAP and MRAP2 subtypes in distant species, an overall evolutionary analysis of these families is still missing. Here, we performed a comprehensive evolutionary analysis of the MRAP and MRAP2 homologs based on whole genome sequences. We systematically mined and analyzed the genomes of metazoans to identify these genes. Overall, we identified 70 sequences of MRAP and MRAP2 from 44 species belonging to several vertebrate lineages, including at least 40 new sequences previously not reported in the literature. Herein, we provide evidence that MRAP2 is likely to be the ancestor of the MRAP family because MRAP2-like protein, but not MRAP, was identified in Petromyzon marinus (sea lamprey), which belong to an ancient basal vertebrate lineage. Later in vertebrate evolution, MRAP2 duplicated and gave rise to MRAP in an event before the emergence of actinopterygii (ray-finned fishes). However, we observed losses of MRAP in sarcopterygii (lobe-finned fish), amphibians and reptiles while both subtypes are present in chicken and most mammals studied. Synteny analysis showed a conserved synteny within same lineages and an inversion of gene order between lineages. An evolutionary rate shift analysis indicated that these genes were under high purifying selection. Overall, this study provides a comprehensive analysis of the evolution and gene repertoire of MRAP and MRAP2.
Piracetam is a cognitive-enhancing agent that is used for the treatment of cognitive impairments of various etiologies. Little is known about its side effect profile, especially in those with psychiatric illness. We herewith present two cases with cognitive impairment who had contrasting responses to piracetam. One of them with organic amnestic syndrome had significant improvement, whereas the other who had an organic personality change as well as a family history of mental illness had significant worsening of behavioral problems after piracetam was introduced. This report highlights the need for caution in the use of piracetam, especially in those with past or family history of psychiatric illness.
Peripheral neuropathic pain is one of the most common and debilitating complications of diabetes. Several genes have been shown to be effective in reducing neuropathic pain in animal models of diabetes after transfer to the dorsal root ganglion using replication-defective herpes simplex virus (HSV)1-based vectors, yet there has never been a comparative analysis of their efficacy. We compared four different HSV1-based vectors engineered to produce one of two opioid receptor agonists (enkephalin or endomorphin), or one of two isoforms of glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD65 or GAD67), alone and in combination, in the streptozotocin-induced diabetic rat and mouse models. Our results indicate that a single subcutaneous hindpaw inoculation of vectors expressing GAD65 or GAD67 reduced diabetes-induced mechanical allodynia to a degree that was greater than daily injections of gabapentin in rats. Diabetic mice that developed thermal hyperalgesia also responded to GAD65 or endomorphin gene delivery. The results suggest that either GAD65 or GAD67 vectors are the most effective in the treatment of diabetic pain. The vector combinations, GAD67+endomorphin, GAD67+enkephalin or endomorphin+enkephalin also produced a significant antinociceptive effect but the combination did not appear to be superior to single gene treatment. These findings provide further justification for the clinical development of antinociceptive gene therapies for the treatment of diabetic peripheral neuropathies.
Relaxin-3 is a neuropeptide that is abundantly expressed by discrete brainstem neuron populations that broadly innervate forebrain areas rich in the relaxin-3 G-protein-coupled-receptor, RXFP3. Acute and subchronic central administration of synthetic relaxin-3 or an RXFP3-selective agonist peptide, R3/I5, increase feeding and body weight in rats. Intrahypothalamic injection of relaxin-3 also increases feeding. In this study, we developed a recombinant adeno-associated virus 1/2 (rAAV1/2) vector that drives expression and constitutive secretion of bioactive R3/I5 and assessed the effect of intrahypothalamic injections on daily food intake and body weight gain in adult male rats over 8 weeks. In vitro testing revealed that the vector rAAV1/2-fibronectin (FIB)-R3/I5 directs the constitutive secretion of bioactive R3/I5 peptide. Bilateral injection of rAAV1/2-FIB-R3/I5 vector into the paraventricular nucleus produced an increase in daily food intake and body weight gain (P&lt;0.01, ~23%, respectively), relative to control treatment. In a separate cohort of rats, quantitative polymerase chain reaction analysis of hypothalamic mRNA revealed strong expression of R3/I5 transgene at 3 months post-rAAV1/2-FIB-R3/I5 infusion. Levels of mRNA transcripts for the relaxin-3 receptor RXFP3, the hypothalamic 'feeding' peptides neuropeptide Y, AgRP and POMC, and the reproductive hormone, GnRH, were all similar to control, whereas vasopressin and oxytocin (OT) mRNA levels were reduced by ~25% (P=0.051) and ~50% (P&lt;0.005), respectively, in rAAV1/2-FIB-R3/I5-treated rats (at 12 weeks, n=9/8 rats per group). These data demonstrate for the first time that R3/I5 is effective in modulating feeding in the rat by chronic hypothalamic RXFP3 activation and suggest a potential underlying mechanism involving altered OT signalling. Importantly, there was no desensitization of the feeding response over the treatment period and no apparent deleterious health effects, indicating that targeting the relaxin-3-RXFP3 system may be an effective long-term therapy for eating disorders.
Cortical-striatal circuit dysfunction in mental illness may enhance addiction vulnerability. Neonatal ventral hippocampal lesions (NVHL) model this dual diagnosis causality by producing a schizophrenia syndrome with enhanced responsiveness to addictive drugs. Rat genome-wide microarrays containing &gt;24000 probesets were used to examine separate and co-occurring effects of NVHLs and cocaine sensitization (15mg/kg/day5days) on gene expression within medial prefrontal cortex (MPFC), nucleus accumbens (NAC), and caudate-putamen (CAPU). Two weeks after NVHLs robustly amplified cocaine behavioral sensitization, brains were harvested for genes of interest defined as those altered at P&lt;0.001 by NVHL or cocaine effects or interactions. Among 135 genes so impacted, NVHLs altered twofold more than cocaine, with half of all changes in the NAC. Although no genes were changed in the same direction by both NVHL and cocaine history, the anatomy and directionality of significant changes suggested synergy on the neural circuit level generative of compounded behavioral phenotypes: NVHL predominantly downregulated expression in MPFC and NAC while NVHL and cocaine history mostly upregulated CAPU expression. From 75 named genes altered by NVHL or cocaine, 27 had expression levels that correlated significantly with degree of behavioral sensitization, including 11 downregulated by NVHL in MPFC/NAC, and 10 upregulated by NVHL or cocaine in CAPU. These findings suggest that structural and functional impoverishment of prefrontal-cortical-accumbens circuits in mental illness is associated with abnormal striatal plasticity compounding with that in addictive disease. Polygenetic interactions impacting neuronal signaling and morphology within these networks likely contribute to addiction vulnerability in mental illness.
Genetic variants in GABRA2 have previously been shown to be associated with alcohol measures, electroencephalography (EEG)  waves and impulsiveness-related traits. Impulsiveness is a behavioral risk factor for alcohol and other substance abuse. Here, we tested association between 11 variants in GABRA2 with NEO-impulsiveness and problem drinking. Our sample of 295 unrelated adult subjects was from a community of families with at least one male with DSM-IV alcohol use diagnosis, and from a socioeconomically comparable control group. Ten GABRA2 SNPs (single-nucleotide polymorphisms) were associated with the NEO-impulsiveness (P&lt;0.03). The alleles associated with higher impulsiveness correspond to the minor alleles identified in previous alcohol dependence studies. All ten SNPs are in linkage disequilibrium (LD) with each other and represent one effect on impulsiveness. Four SNPs and the corresponding haplotype from intron 3 to intron 4 were also associated with Lifetime Alcohol Problems Score (LAPS, P&lt;0.03) (not corrected for multiple testing). Impulsiveness partially mediates (22.6% average) this relation between GABRA2 and LAPS. Our results suggest that GABRA2 variation in the region between introns 3 and 4 is associated with impulsiveness and this effect partially influences the development of alcohol problems, but a direct effect of GABRA2 on problem drinking remains. A potential functional SNP rs279827, located next to a splice site, is located in the most significant region for both impulsiveness and LAPS. The high degree of LD among nine of these SNPs and the conditional analyses we have performed suggest that all variants represent one signal.
The neuropeptide galanin has been implicated in the regulation of appetitive and consummatory behaviors. Prior studies have shown that direct injection of galanin into the hypothalamus results in increased release of dopamine (DA) in the nucleus accumbens (NAcc), and parallel increases in food and alcohol consumption. These studies are consistent with a role of hypothalamic galanin in regulating reward system reactivity. In humans, a common functional haplotype (GAL5.1) within a remote enhancer region upstream of the galanin gene (GAL) affects promoter activity and galanin expression in hypothalamic neurons in vitro. Given the effects of hypothalamic galanin on NAcc DA release and the effects of the GAL5.1 haplotype on GAL expression, we examined the impact of this functional genetic variation on human reward-related ventral striatum (VS) reactivity. Using an imaging genetics strategy in Caucasian individuals (N=138, 72 women) participating in the ongoing Duke Neurogenetics Study, we report a significant gender-by-genotype interaction (right hemisphere: F1,134 =8.08, P=0.005; left hemisphere: F1,134 =5.39, P=0.022), such that homozygosity for the GG haplotype, which predicts greater GAL expression, is associated with relatively increased VS reactivity in women (n=50, right hemisphere: P=0.015; left hemisphere: P=0.060), but not in men (N=49, P-values&gt;0.10). Furthermore, these differences in VS reactivity correlated positively with differences in alcohol use, such that VS reactivity mediated a gender-specific association between GAL5.1 haplotype and problem drinking. Our current results support those in animal models implicating galanin signaling in neural pathways associated with appetitive and consummatory behaviors of relevance for understanding risk for substance use and abuse.


Inflammation is a common component of acute injuries of the central nervous system (CNS) such as ischemia, and degenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease. Glial cells play important roles in local CNS inflammation, and an understanding of the roles for microRNAs in glial reactivity in injury and disease settings may therefore lead to the development of novel therapeutic interventions. Here, we show that the miR-181 family is developmentally regulated and present in high amounts in astrocytes compared to neurons. Overexpression of miR-181c in cultured astrocytes results in increased cell death when exposed to lipopolysaccharide (LPS). We show that miR-181 expression is altered by exposure to LPS, a model of inflammation, in both wild-type and transgenic mice lacking both receptors for the inflammatory cytokine TNF-. Knockdown of miR-181 enhanced LPS-induced production of pro-inflammatory cytokines (TNF-, IL-6, IL-1, IL-8) and HMGB1, while overexpression of miR-181 resulted in a significant increase in the expression of the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10. To assess the effects of miR-181 on the astrocyte transcriptome, we performed gene array and pathway analysis on astrocytes with reduced levels of miR-181b/c. To examine the pool of potential miR-181 targets, we employed a biotin pull-down of miR-181c and gene array analysis. We validated the mRNAs encoding MeCP2 and X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis as targets of miR-181. These findings suggest that miR-181 plays important roles in the molecular responses of astrocytes in inflammatory settings. Further understanding of the role of miR-181 in inflammatory events and CNS injury could lead to novel approaches for the treatment of CNS disorders with an inflammatory component.
In the developing and mature central nervous system, NG2 expressing cells comprise a population of cycling oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs) that differentiate into mature, myelinating oligodendrocytes (OLGs). OPCs are also characterized by high motility and respond to injury by migrating into the lesioned area to support remyelination. K(+) currents in OPCs are developmentally regulated during differentiation. However, the mechanisms regulating these currents at different stages of oligodendrocyte lineage are poorly understood. Here we show that, in cultured primary OPCs, the purinergic G-protein coupled receptor GPR17, that has recently emerged as a key player in oligodendrogliogenesis, crucially regulates K(+) currents. Specifically, receptor stimulation by its agonist UDP-glucose enhances delayed rectifier K(+) currents without affecting transient K(+) conductances. This effect was observed in a subpopulation of OPCs and immature pre-OLGs whereas it was absent in mature OLGs, in line with GPR17 expression, that peaks at intermediate phases of oligodendrocyte differentiation and is thereafter downregulated to allow terminal maturation. The effect of UDP-glucose on K(+) currents is concentration-dependent, blocked by the GPR17 antagonists MRS2179 and cangrelor, and sensitive to the K(+) channel blocker tetraethyl-ammonium, which also inhibits oligodendrocyte maturation. We propose that stimulation of K(+) currents is responsible for GPR17-induced oligodendrocyte differentiation. Moreover, we demonstrate, for the first time, that GPR17 activation stimulates OPC migration, suggesting an important role for this receptor after brain injury. Our data indicate that modulation of GPR17 may represent a strategy to potentiate the post-traumatic response of OPCs under demyelinating conditions, such as multiple sclerosis, stroke, and brain trauma.
Glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-positive astrocytes with radial processes [radial glia (RG)-like cells] in the postnatal dentate gyrus share many of the characteristics of embryonic radial glia and appear to act as precursor cells for adult dentate neurogenesis, a process important for pattern separation and hippocampus-dependent learning. Although much work has delineated the mechanisms underlying activity-neurogenesis coupling via gamma-amino butyric acid (GABA)ergic neurotransmission on GFAP-negative transient-amplifying cells and neuroblasts, little is known regarding the effects of neurotransmitters on RG-like cells. Conflicting evidence exists for both GABA and glutamate receptors on these cells. Here, using GFAP reporter mice, we show that the somatic membrane of RG-like cells carries GABAA receptors and glutamate transporters but not ionotropic glutamate receptors, whereas 2-amino-3-(hydroxyl-5-methylisoxazole-4-yl) propionic acid (AMPA) and GABAA receptors are expressed on the processes of these cells. Almost all RG-like cells expressed the GluA2 subunit, which restricts the Ca(2+) permeability of AMPA receptors. The glial GABAA receptors mainly comprised 2/4, 1, and 1/3. The selective presence of AMPA receptors on the radial processes may be important for sensing and responding to local activity-driven glutamate release and supports the concept that RG-like astrocytes are composed of functional and structural domains.
Recently, technological advances have led neuroscientists to develop a new and more sophisticated framework. It shifts the focus of study from the activity of specific brain regions to how networks of brain regions activate in concurrent patterns. In this article, two experts in brain science explain important discoveries that have been made about four key networks: the default network, which is engaged in introspection and in imagining a different time, place, or reality; the reward network, which activates in response to pleasure; the affect network, which plays a central role in emotions; and the control network, which is involved in understanding consequences, impulse control, and selective attention. These discoveries hold major implications for managers. In particular, they shed light on: the best way to generate &quot;Eureka!&quot; thinking. What motivates employees. Whether you should trust your gut and listen to your emotions in decision making. The opportunities and pitfalls of multitasking. These insights are just the beginning, say the authors, who believe that a hugely productive dialogue between neuroscience and business will develop as more findings emerge.

Cluster headache pain is very intense, usually increases in intensity very rapidly from onset, and attacks are often frequent. These clinical features result in significant therapeutic challenges. The most effective pharmacological treatment options for acute cluster attack include subcutaneous sumatriptan, 100% oxygen, and intranasal zolmitriptan. Subcutaneous or intramuscular dihydroergotamine and intranasal sumatriptan are additional options. Transitional therapy is applicable mainly for patients with high-frequency (&gt;2 attacks per day) episodic cluster headache, and options include short courses of high-dose oral corticosteroids, dihydroergotamine, and occipital nerve blocks with local anesthetic and steroids. Prophylactic therapy is important both for episodic and chronic cluster headache, and the main options are verapamil and lithium. Verapamil is drug of first choice but may cause cardiac arrhythmias, and periodic electrocardiograms (EKGs) during dose escalation are important. Many other drugs are also in current use, but there is an insufficient evidence base to recommend them.

Results from developmental and phylogenetic studies have converged to facilitate insight into two important steps in vertebrate evolution: (1) the ontogenetic origin of articulating elements of the buccal skeleton, i.e., jaws, and (2) the later origins of middle ear impedance-matching systems that convey air-borne sound to the inner ear fluids. Middle ear ossicles and other skeletal elements of the viscerocranium (i.e., gill suspensory arches and jaw bones) share a common origin both phylogenetically and ontogenetically. The intention of this brief overview of middle-ear development is to emphasize the intimate connection between evolution and embryogenesis. Examples of developmental situations are discussed in which cells of different provenance, such as neural crest, mesoderm or endoderm, gather together and reciprocal interactions finally determine cell fate. Effects of targeted mutagenesis on middle ear development are described to illustrate how the alteration of molecularly-controlled morphogenetic programs led to phylogenetic modifications of skeletal development. Ontogenetic plasticity has enabled the diversification of jaw elements as well as middle ear structures during evolution. This article is part of a special issue entitled &quot;MEMRO 2012&quot;.
The middle ear apparatus varies considerably among living mammals. Body size, phylogeny and acoustic environment all play roles in shaping ear structure and function, but experimental studies aimed ultimately at improving our understanding of human hearing can sometimes overlook these important species differences. This review focuses on three groups of mammals, bringing together anatomical, zoological and physiological information in order to highlight unusual features of their middle ears and attempt to interpret their function. &quot;Microtype&quot; ears, found in species such as mice and bats, are associated with high-frequency hearing. The orbicular apophysis, the focus of some recent developmental studies on mouse ears, is characteristic of microtype mallei but is not found in humans or other &quot;freely mobile&quot; species. The apophysis increases ossicular inertia about the anatomical axis of rotation: its adaptive purpose in a high-frequency ear is still not clear. Subterranean mammals have convergently evolved a &quot;freely mobile&quot; ossicular morphology which appears to favour lower-frequency sound transmission. More unusual features found in some of these animals include acoustically coupled middle ear cavities, the loss of middle ear muscles and hypertrophied ossicles which are believed to subserve a form of inertial bone conduction. Middle ears of the rodent group Ctenohystrica (which includes guinea pigs and chinchillas, important models in hearing research) show some striking characteristics which together comprise a unique type of auditory apparatus requiring a classification of its own, referred to here as the &quot;Ctenohystrica type&quot;. These characteristics include a distinctive malleus morphology, fusion of the malleus and incus, reduction or loss of the stapedius muscle, a synovial stapedio-vestibular articulation and, in chinchillas, enormously expanded middle ear cavities. These characteristics may be functionally linked and associated with the excellent low-frequency hearing found in these animals. The application of new experimental and imaging data into increasingly sophisticated models continues to improve our understanding of middle ear function. However, a more rigorous comparative approach and a better appreciation of the complex patterns of convergent and divergent evolution reflected in the middle ear structures of living mammals are also needed, in order to put findings from different species into the appropriate context. This article is part of a special issue entitled &quot;MEMRO 2012&quot;.
Recently, age-related hippocampal (HP) volume loss could be associated with a decrease in general fluid intelligence (gF). In the present study we investigated whether and how extensive musical training modulates human HP volume and gF performance. Previously, some studies demonstrated positive effects of musical training on higher cognitive functions such as learning and memory, associated with neural adaptations beyond the auditory domain. In order to detect possible associations between musical training and gF, we bilaterally segmented the HP formation and assessed the individual gF performance of people with different levels of musical expertise. Multiple regression analyses revealed that HP volume predicts gF in musicians but not in nonmusicians; in particular, bilaterally enhanced HP volume is associated with increased gF exclusively in musically trained people (amateurs and experts). This result suggests that musical training facilitates the recruitment of cognitive resources, which are essential for gF and linked to HP functioning. Musical training, even at a moderate level of intensity, can thus be considered as a potential strategy to decelerate age-related effects of cognitive decline.
Epigenetic processes, such as histone acetylation, are critical regulators of learning and memory processes. In the present study, we investigated whether training in either a spatial or a cued water maze task undergoes selective changes of histone H3 and H4 acetylation within the hippocampus and the dorsal striatum of C57BL/6 mice. We also attempted to provide new insights into the relationships between deregulation in histone acetylation and age-associated memory deficits. In young mice, spatial training increased acetylation of histones H3 and H4 selectively in the dorsal hippocampal CA1 region and the dentate gyrus (DG) whereas cued training significantly enhanced acetylation of both histones selectively in the dorsal striatum. Our data also revealed age-related differences in histone acetylation within the hippocampus and striatum according to task demands. Specifically, age-related spatial memory deficits were associated with opposite changes of H3 (increase) and H4 (decrease) acetylation in CA1 and DG. After cued learning, both histone acetylation levels were reduced in the striatum of aged mice compared with corresponding young-adults but remained well above those of cage-controls. Collectively, our findings suggest an important role for histone acetylation in regulating the relative contributions of the hippocampus and striatum to learning spatial and cued memory tasks.
Hippocampal damage causes profound yet circumscribed memory impairment across diverse stimulus types and testing formats. Here, within a single test format involving a single class of stimuli, we identified different performance errors to better characterize the specifics of the underlying deficit. The task involved study and reconstruction of object arrays across brief retention intervals. The most striking feature of patients' with hippocampal damage performance was that they tended to reverse the relative positions of item pairs within arrays of any size, effectively &quot;swapping&quot; pairs of objects. These &quot;swap errors&quot; were the primary error type in amnesia, almost never occurred in healthy comparison participants, and actually contributed to poor performance on more traditional metrics (such as distance between studied and reconstructed location). Patients made swap errors even in trials involving only a single pair of objects. The selectivity and severity of this particular deficit creates serious challenges for theories of memory and hippocampus.
As a response to central nervous system injury, astrocytes become reactive. Two cellular hallmarks of reactive gliosis are hypertrophy of astrocyte processes and upregulation of intermediate filament (nanofilament) proteins glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), vimentin, nestin, and synemin. Astrocytes in mice devoid of GFAP and vimentin (GFAP (-/-) Vim (-/-)) do not form cytoplasmic intermediate filaments. GFAP (-/-) Vim (-/-) mice develop larger infarcts after ischemic stroke (Li et al. in J Cereb Blood Flow Metab 28(3):468-481, 2008). Here, we attempted to analyze the underlying mechanisms using oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD), an in vitro ischemia model, examining a potential link between astrocyte intermediate filaments and reactive oxygen species (ROS). We observed a reorganization of the intermediate filament network in astrocytes exposed to OGD. ROS accumulation was higher in GFAP (-/-) Vim (-/-) than wild-type astrocytes when exposed to OGD followed by reperfusion or when exposed to hydrogen peroxide. These results indicate that the elimination of ROS is impaired in the absence of the intermediate filament system. Compared to wild-type astrocytes, GFAP (-/-) Vim (-/-) astrocytes exposed to OGD and reperfusion exhibited increased cell death and conferred lower degree of protection to cocultured neurons. We conclude that the astrocyte intermediate filament system is important for the cell response to oxidative stress induced by OGD followed by reperfusion.
Spiritual care is an essential component in nursing practice and strongly influenced by the sociocultural context. This article aimed to elucidate the meaning of nurses' experiences of giving spiritual care in southeast of Iran. A phenomenological hermeneutic approach influenced by Ricoeur was used. Eleven staff nurses who were currently working in the 3 major hospitals under the umbrella of the Kerman University of Medical Sciences were interviewed. The meaning of spiritual care was comprehensively understood as meeting patient as a unique being. This can be divided into 3 themes: meeting patient as a being in relationship, meeting patient as a cultural being, and meeting patient as a religious being. The results in this study suggest that education about spirituality and spiritual care should be included in the continuous and in-service education of registered nurses. Spiritual and cultural assessment criteria should be included in this education to improve the provision of holistic care.
This article is part of a Special Issue &quot;Puberty and Adolescence&quot;. The pubertal period is a time of change in an animal's response to stress, and it is a second period of sexual differentiation of the brain. Recently, it was discovered that particular stressors during the prolonged pubertal period of female mice result in enduring changes in behavioral responsiveness of the brain to estradiol and progesterone. Depending on the behavior, pubertal immune challenge or shipping from suppliers may decrease, eliminate, or even reverse the effects of estradiol. Pubertal immune challenge results in changes in the number of estrogen receptor-immunoreactive cells in key brain areas suggesting a cellular mechanism for this remodeling of the brain's response to hormones. A hypothesis is put forward that predicts that particular adverse experiences in girls may cause long-term alterations in the brain's response to estradiol and/or progesterone via activation of the immune system. This could lead to mood disorders or altered response to any behavior influenced by estradiol in humans.
This article is part of a Special Issue &quot;Puberty and Adolescence&quot;. Adolescence is characterized by a variety of behavioral alterations, including elevations in novelty-seeking and experimentation with alcohol and other drugs of abuse. Some adolescent-typical neurobehavioral alterations may depend upon pubertal rises in gonadal hormones, whereas others may be unrelated to puberty. Using a variety of approaches, studies in laboratory animals have not revealed clear relationships between pubertal-related changes and adolescent- or adult-typical behaviors that are not strongly sexually dimorphic. Data reviewed suggest surprisingly modest influences of gonadal hormones on alcohol intake, alcohol preference and novelty-directed behaviors. Gonadectomy in males (but not females) increased ethanol intake in adulthood following surgery either pre-pubertally or in adulthood, with these increases in intake largely reversed by testosterone replacement in adulthood, supporting an activational role of androgens in moderating ethanol intake in males. In contrast, neither pre-pubertal nor adult gonadectomy influenced sensitivity to the social inhibitory or aversive effects of ethanol when indexed via conditioned taste aversions, although gonadectomy at either age altered the microstructure of social behavior of both males and females. Unexpectedly, the pre-pubertal surgical manipulation process itself was found to increase later ethanol intake, decrease sensitivity to ethanol's social inhibitory effects, attenuate novelty-directed behavior and lower social motivation, with gonadal hormones being necessary for these long-lasting effects of early surgical perturbations.
This article is part of a Special Issue &quot;Puberty and Adolescence&quot;. There is increasing evidence that puberty plays an important role in the structural and functional brain development seen in adolescence, but little is known of the pubertal influence on changes in functional connectivity. We explored how pubertal indicators (salivary concentrations of testosterone, oestradiol and DHEA; pubertal stage; menarcheal status) relate to functional connectivity between components of a mentalising network identified to be engaged in social emotion processing by our prior work, using psychophysiological interaction (PPI) analysis. Female adolescents aged 11 to 13years were scanned whilst silently reading scenarios designed to evoke either social emotions (guilt and embarrassment) or basic emotions (disgust and fear), of which only social compared to basic emotions require the representation of another person's mental states. Pubertal stage and menarcheal status were used to assign participants to pre/early or mid/late puberty groups. We found increased functional connectivity between the dorsomedial prefrontal cortex (DMPFC) and the right posterior superior temporal sulcus (pSTS) and right temporo-parietal junction (TPJ) during social relative to basic emotion processing. Moreover, increasing oestradiol concentrations were associated with increased functional connectivity between the DMPFC and the right TPJ during social relative to basic emotion processing, independent of age. Our analysis of the PPI data by phenotypic pubertal status showed that more advanced puberty stage was associated with enhanced functional connectivity between the DMPFC and the left anterior temporal cortex (ATC) during social relative to basic emotion processing, also independent of age. Our results suggest increased functional maturation of the social brain network with the advancement of puberty in girls.
This article is part of a Special Issue &quot;Puberty and Adolescence&quot;. Sexual differentiation is the process by which the nervous system becomes structurally and functionally dissimilar in females and males. In mammals, this process has been thought to occur during prenatal and early postnatal development, when a transient increase in testosterone secretion masculinizes and defeminizes the developing male nervous system. Decades of research have led to the views that structural sexual dimorphisms created during perinatal development are passively maintained throughout life, and that ovarian hormones do not play an active role in feminization of the nervous system. Furthermore, perinatal testosterone was thought to determine sex differences in neuron number by regulating cell death and cell survival, and not by regulating cell proliferation. As investigations of neural development during adolescence became more prominent in the late 20th century and revealed the extent of brain remodeling during this time, each of these tenets has been challenged and modified. Here we review evidence from the animal literature that 1) the brain is further sexually differentiated during puberty and adolescence; 2) ovarian hormones play an active role in the feminization of the brain during puberty; and 3) hormonally modulated, sex-specific addition of new neurons and glial cells, as well as loss of neurons, contribute to sexual differentiation of hypothalamic, limbic, and cortical regions during adolescence. This architectural remodeling during the adolescent phase of sexual differentiation of the brain may underlie the known sex differences in vulnerability to addiction and psychiatric disorders that emerge during this developmental period.
This article is part of a Special Issue &quot;Puberty and Adolescence&quot;. Puberty is a major developmental milestone controlled by the interaction of genetic factors and environmental cues of mostly metabolic and circadian nature. An increased pulsatile release of the decapeptide gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) from hypothalamic neurosecretory neurons is required for both the initiation and progression of the pubertal process. This increase is brought about by coordinated changes that occur in neuronal and glial networks associated with GnRH neurons. These changes ultimately result in increased neuronal and glial stimulatory inputs to the GnRH neuronal network and a reduction of transsynaptic inhibitory influences. While some of the major players controlling pubertal GnRH secretion have been identified using gene-centric approaches, much less is known about the system-wide control of the overall process. Because the pubertal activation of GnRH release involves a diversity of cellular phenotypes, and a myriad of intracellular and cell-to-cell signaling molecules, it appears that the overall process is controlled by a highly coordinated and interactive regulatory system involving hundreds, if not thousands, of gene products. In this article we will discuss emerging evidence suggesting that these genes are arranged as functionally connected networks organized, both internally and across sub-networks, in a hierarchical fashion. According to this concept, the core of these networks is composed of transcriptional regulators that, by directing expression of downstream subordinate genes, provide both stability and coordination to the cellular networks involved in initiating the pubertal process. The integrative response of these gene networks to external inputs is postulated to be coordinated by epigenetic mechanisms.
This article is part of a Special Issue &quot;Puberty and Adolescence&quot;. Many endocrine changes are associated with pubertal and adolescent development. One such change is the responsiveness of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis to physical and/or psychological stressors. Recent human and non-human animal studies have shown that hormonal stress reactivity increases significantly throughout puberty and adolescence. Specifically, exposure to various stressors results in greater adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) and glucocorticoid responses in peripubertal compared to adult animals. This review will focus on how stress reactivity changes throughout puberty and adolescence, as well as potential mechanisms that mediate these changes in stress responsiveness. Though the implications of these pubertal shifts in stress responsiveness are not fully understood, the significant increase in stress-related mental and physical dysfunctions during this stage of development highlights the importance of studying pubertal and adolescent maturation of HPA function and its reactivity to stress.
This article is part of a Special Issue &quot;Puberty and Adolescence&quot;. Puberty is a critical period for brain maturation that is highly dependent on gonadal sex hormones. Modifications in the gonadal steroid environment, via the use of anabolic androgenic steroids (AAS), have been shown to affect brain development and behavior. Studies in both humans and animal models indicate that AAS exposure during adolescence alters normal brain remodeling, including structural changes and neurotransmitter function. The most commonly reported behavioral effect is an increase in aggression. Evidence has been presented to identify factors that influence the effect of AAS on the expression of aggression. The chemical composition of the AAS plays a major role in determining whether aggression is displayed, with testosterone being the most effective. The hormonal context, the environmental context, physical provocation and the perceived threat during the social encounter have all been found to influence the expression of aggression and sexual behavior. All of these factors point toward an altered behavioral state that includes an increased readiness to respond to a social encounter with heightened vigilance and enhanced motivation. This AAS-induced state may be defined as emboldenment. The evidence suggests that the use of AAS during this critical period of development may increase the risk for maladaptive behaviors along with neurological disorders.
Knowledge about the principles that govern large-scale neural representations of objects is central to a systematic understanding of object recognition. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and multivariate pattern classification to investigate two such candidate principles: category preference and location encoding. The former designates the preferential activation of distinct cortical regions by a specific category of objects. The latter refers to information about where in the visual field a particular object is located. Participants viewed exemplars of three object categories (faces, bodies, and scenes) that were presented left or right of fixation. The analysis of fMRI activation patterns revealed the following. Category-selective regions retained their preference to the same categories in a manner tolerant to changes in object location. However, category preference was not absolute: category-selective regions also contained location-tolerant information about nonpreferred categories. Furthermore, location information was present throughout high-level ventral visual cortex and was distributed systematically across the cortical surface. We found more location information in lateral-occipital cortex than in ventral-temporal cortex. Our results provide a systematic account of the extent to which the principles of category preference and location encoding determine the representation of objects in the high-level ventral visual cortex.
The reduction of neural activity in response to repeated stimuli, repetition suppression, is one of the most robust experience-related cortical dynamics known to cognitive neuroscience. Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies during episodic memory encoding have demonstrated repetition suppression in the hippocampus and this reduction has been linked to successful memory formation. An emerging body of functional imaging evidence suggests that the posteromedial cortex, in addition to the medial temporal lobes, may have a pivotal role in successful episodic memory. This area typically deactivates during initial memory encoding, but its functional changes in response to repetitive encoding remain poorly specified. Here, we investigate the repetition-related changes in the posteromedial cortex as well as the hippocampus while the participants underwent an fMRI experiment involving repetitive encoding of face-name pairs. During the first encoding trial of face-name pairs, significant activation in the hippocampus was observed. The second and third encoding trials demonstrated a repetition suppression effect in the hippocampus, indicated by a stepwise decrease of activation. In contrast, the posteromedial cortex demonstrated significant deactivation during the initial encoding trial of face-name pairs. The second and third encoding trials demonstrated a stepwise decrease of deactivation, repetition enhancement, with activity at or above baseline levels in the final encoding trial. These findings demonstrate that hippocampus repetition suppression as well as posteromedial repetition enhancement is related to successful encoding processes and are discussed in relation to the default mode hypothesis as well as potential implications for understanding late-life amnestic disorders.
Central core disease is a myopathy often arising from mutations in the type 1 ryanodine receptor (RYR1) gene, encoding the sarcoplasmic reticulum calcium release channel RyR1. No treatment is currently available for this disease. We studied the pathological situation of a severely affected child with two recessive mutations, which resulted in a massive reduction in the amount of RyR1. The paternal mutation induced the inclusion of a new in-frame pseudo-exon in RyR1 mRNA that resulted in the insertion of additional amino acids leading to the instability of the protein. We hypothesized that skipping this additional exon would be sufficient to restore RyR1 expression and to normalize calcium releases. We therefore developed U7-AON lentiviral vectors to force exon skipping on affected primary muscle cells. The efficiency of the exon skipping was evaluated at the mRNA level, at the protein level, and at the functional level using calcium imaging. In these affected cells, we observed a decreased inclusion of the pseudo-exon, an increased RyR1 protein expression, and a restoration of calcium releases of normal amplitude either upon direct RyR1 stimulation or in response to membrane depolarization. This study is the first demonstration of the potential of exon-skipping strategy for the therapy of central core disease, from the molecular to the functional level.
Mutations in the gene encoding Fused in Sarcoma (FUS) cause amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), a fatal neurodegenerative disorder. FUS is a predominantly nuclear DNA- and RNA-binding protein that is involved in RNA processing. Large FUS-immunoreactive inclusions fill the perikaryon of surviving motor neurons of ALS patients carrying mutations at post-mortem. This sequestration of FUS is predicted to disrupt RNA processing and initiate neurodegeneration. Here, we demonstrate that C-terminal ALS mutations disrupt the nuclear localizing signal (NLS) of FUS resulting in cytoplasmic accumulation in transfected cells and patient fibroblasts. FUS mislocalization is rescued by the addition of the wild-type FUS NLS to mutant proteins. We also show that oxidative stress recruits mutant FUS to cytoplasmic stress granules where it is able to bind and sequester wild-type FUS. While FUS interacts with itself directly by protein-protein interaction, the recruitment of FUS to stress granules and interaction with PABP are RNA dependent. These findings support a two-hit hypothesis, whereby cytoplasmic mislocalization of FUS protein, followed by cellular stress, contributes to the formation of cytoplasmic aggregates that may sequester FUS, disrupt RNA processing and initiate motor neuron degeneration.
Proper function of the motor unit is dependent upon the correct development of dendrites and axons. The infant/childhood onset motoneuron disease spinal muscular atrophy (SMA), caused by low levels of the survival motor neuron (SMN) protein, is characterized by muscle denervation and paralysis. Although different SMA models have shown neuromuscular junction defects and/or motor axon defects, a comprehensive analysis of motoneuron development in vivo under conditions of low SMN will give insight into why the motor unit becomes dysfunctional. We have generated genetic mutants in zebrafish expressing low levels of SMN from the earliest stages of development. Analysis of motoneurons in these mutants revealed motor axons were often shorter and had fewer branches. We also found that motoneurons had significantly fewer dendritic branches and those present were shorter. Analysis of motor axon filopodial dynamics in live embryos revealed that mutants had fewer filopodia and their average half-life was shorter. To determine when SMN was needed to rescue motoneuron development, SMN was conditionally induced in smn mutants during embryonic stages. Only when SMN was added back soon after motoneurons were born, could later motor axon development be rescued. Importantly, analysis of motor behavior revealed that animals with motor axon defects had significant deficits in motor output. We also show that SMN is required earlier for motoneuron development than for survival. These data support that SMN is needed early in development of motoneuron dendrites and axons to develop normally and that this is essential for proper connectivity and movement.
Abnormal metabolism of the tau protein is central to the pathogenesis of a number of dementias, including Alzheimer's disease. Aberrant alternative splicing of exon 10 in the tau pre-mRNA resulting in an imbalance of tau isoforms is one of the molecular causes of the inherited tauopathy, FTDP-17. We showed previously in heterologous systems that exon 10 inclusion in tau mRNA could be modulated by spliceosome-mediated RNA trans-splicing (SMaRT). Here, we evaluated the potential of trans-splicing RNA reprogramming to correct tau mis-splicing in differentiated neurons in a mouse model of tau mis-splicing, the htau transgenic mouse line, expressing the human MAPT gene in a null mouse Mapt background. Trans-splicing molecules designed to increase exon 10 inclusion were delivered to neurons using lentiviral vectors. We demonstrate reprogramming of tau transcripts at the RNA level after transduction of cultured neurons or after direct delivery and long-term expression of viral vectors into the brain of htau mice in vivo. Tau RNA trans-splicing resulted in an increase in exon 10 inclusion in the mature tau mRNA. Importantly, we also show that the trans-spliced product is translated into a full-length chimeric tau protein. These results validate the potential of SMaRT to correct tau mis-splicing and provide a framework for its therapeutic application to neurodegenerative conditions linked to aberrant RNA processing.

One of the changes seen in electroencephalography (EEG) data preceding human voluntary movement is a cortical potential called readiness potential (RP). Detection of this potential can benefit researchers in clinical neurosciences for rehabilitation of malfunctioning brain and those working on brain-computer interfacing to develop a suitable mechanism to detect the intention of movement. Here, a constrained blind source extraction (CBSE) is attempted for detection of RP. A suitable constraint is defined and applied. The results are also compared with those of the traditional blind source separation in terms of true positive rate, false positive rate, and computation time. The results show that the CBSE approach in overall has superior performance.
The default mode network (DMN) is a network of brain regions that are active during rest and suppressed during a cognitively demanding task. Previous studies have shown that the DMN can be altered by development, aging, disorder, cognitive tasks and offline training. However, it's unclear whether activity in the DMN can be altered by real-time training. Recently, real-time functional magnetic resonance imaging (rtfMRI), as a novel neurofeedback technique, has been applied to train subjects to voluntarily control activities in specific brain regions. In the current study, it was found that by using rtfMRI to guide training, subjects were able to learn to decrease activity in the posterior cingulate cortex (PCC), which is a &quot;key hub&quot; in the DMN, using motor imagery strategy. After the real-time training, activity in the medial prefrontral cortex/ anterior cingulate cortex (MPFC/ACC) of the resting state DMN was decreased. By contrast, the control group without neurofeedback produced increased activity in the MPFC/ACC of the DMN during the post-training resting state. These findings suggest that this rtfMRI technique has great potential to be used in the regulation of the DMN and may be a novel approach for studying functional plasticity of the cortex.
Event related potentials (ERPs) represent a noninvasive and widely available means to analyze neural correlates of sensory and cognitive processing. Recent developments in neural and cognitive engineering proposed completely new application fields of this well-established measurement technique when using an advanced single-trial processing. We have recently shown that 2-D diffusion filtering methods from image processing can be used for the denoising of ERP single-trials in matrix representations, also called ERP images. In contrast to conventional 1-D transient ERP denoising techniques, the 2-D restoration of ERP images allows for an integration of regularities over multiple stimulations into the denoising process. Advanced anisotropic image restoration methods may require directional information for the ERP denoising process. This is especially true if there is a lack of a priori knowledge about possible traces in ERP images. However due to the use of event related experimental paradigms, ERP images are characterized by a high degree of self-similarity over the individual trials. In this paper, we propose the simple and easy to apply nonlocal means method for ERP image denoising in order to exploit this self-similarity rather than focusing on the edge-based extraction of directional information. Using measured and simulated ERP data, we compare our method to conventional approaches in ERP denoising. It is concluded that the self-similarity in ERP images can be exploited for single-trial ERP denoising by the proposed approach. This method might be promising for a variety of evoked and event-related potential applications, including nonstationary paradigms such as changing exogeneous stimulus characteristics or endogenous states during the experiment. As presented, the proposed approach is for the a posteriori denoising of single-trial sequences.
This manuscript considers the following &quot;graph classification&quot; question: Given a collection of graphs and associated classes, how can one predict the class of a newly observed graph? To address this question, we propose a statistical model for graph/class pairs. This model naturally leads to a set of estimators to identify the class-conditional signal, or &quot;signal-subgraph,&quot; defined as the collection of edges that are probabilistically different between the classes. The estimators admit classifiers which are asymptotically optimal and efficient, but which differ by their assumption about the &quot;coherency&quot; of the signal-subgraph (coherency is the extent to which the signal-edges &quot;stick together&quot; around a common subset of vertices). Via simulation, the best estimator is shown to be not just a function of the coherency of the model, but also the number of training samples. These estimators are employed to address a contemporary neuroscience question: Can we classify &quot;connectomes&quot; (brain-graphs) according to sex? The answer is yes, and significantly better than all benchmark algorithms considered. Synthetic data analysis demonstrates that even when the model is correct, given the relatively small number of training samples, the estimated signal-subgraph should be taken with a grain of salt. We conclude by discussing several possible extensions.






















The aim of this prospective observational study was to verify the tolerability and safety profile of risperidone in a sample of antipsychotic-naive children/adolescent patients having a different psychiatric diagnosis. Twenty-two (mean age of 123.2) antipsychotic-naive patients who started therapy with risperidone were recruited. The assessment involved anthropometric data (weight, height, BMI, BMI z-score and BMI percentile), cardiovascular parameters (blood pressure and QTc interval) and blood tests (levels of glucose, triglycerides, total cholesterol, glutamic oxaloacetic and pyruvic transaminases, -glutamyl transferase, prolactin, free triiodothyronine, free thyroxine, thyroid-stimulating hormone, thyroglobulin, antithyroid peroxidase and antithyroglobulin). After an average follow-up of 6 months of risperidone therapy, a statistically significant increase in weight and body composition was observed. Furthermore, an increase in serum levels of prolactin was observed in 50% of patients. No other significant changes in metabolic and cardiovascular parameters were found. Although an increase in these parameters was detected, it remained in the normal range. This study suggests the use of specific protocols for monitoring children/adolescents treated with second-generation antipsychotics to manage the metabolic long-term complications and progression to more severe disease states.



Osteoarthritis (OA) is a chronic degenerative joint disorder characterized by destruction of the articular cartilage, subchondral bone alterations and synovitis. Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are expressed in joint tissues of patients with osteoarthritis (OA). The objective of this study was to define the steady state levels of two different MMPs to provide more insight into the role of MMPs in cartilage destruction in OA. We investigated the expression of gelatinases through immunohistochemistry Our results show that high levels of MMP-2 and MMP-9 are present in OA and suggest that once these MMPs are fully activated they may contribute to the cartilage destruction in OA.

Cannabidiol (CBD), the main non-psychotomimetic component of the plant Cannabis sativa, exerts therapeutically promising effects on human mental health such as inhibition of psychosis, anxiety and depression. However, the mechanistic bases of CBD action are unclear. Here we investigate the potential involvement of hippocampal neurogenesis in the anxiolytic effect of CBD in mice subjected to 14d chronic unpredictable stress (CUS). Repeated administration of CBD (30mg/kg i.p., 2h after each daily stressor) increased hippocampal progenitor proliferation and neurogenesis in wild-type mice. Ganciclovir administration to GFAP-thymidine kinase (GFAP-TK) transgenic mice, which express thymidine kinase in adult neural progenitor cells, abrogated CBD-induced hippocampal neurogenesis. CBD administration prevented the anxiogenic effect of CUS in wild type but not in GFAP-TK mice as evidenced in the novelty suppressed feeding test and the elevated plus maze. This anxiolytic effect of CBD involved the participation of the CB1 cannabinoid receptor, as CBD administration increased hippocampal anandamide levels and administration of the CB1-selective antagonist AM251 prevented CBD actions. Studies conducted with hippocampal progenitor cells in culture showed that CBD promotes progenitor proliferation and cell cycle progression and mimics the proliferative effect of CB1 and CB2 cannabinoid receptor activation. Moreover, antagonists of these two receptors or endocannabinoid depletion by fatty acid amide hydrolase overexpression prevented CBD-induced cell proliferation. These findings support that the anxiolytic effect of chronic CBD administration in stressed mice depends on its proneurogenic action in the adult hippocampus by facilitating endocannabinoid-mediated signalling.
Subcortical dopamine system dysregulation has been suggested to underlie the positive symptoms of schizophrenia. Recent preclinical investigations and human imaging studies have proposed that the augmented dopamine system function observed in schizophrenia patients may be secondary to aberrant hippocampal activity. Thus, we posit that the hippocampus represents a novel therapeutic target for the treatment of schizophrenia. Here we provide evidence of the effectiveness of a unique approach aimed at decreasing hippocampal function in a rodent model of schizophrenia. Specifically, in a rodent model of schizophrenia, we demonstrate that ventral hippocampal (vHipp) deep brain stimulation (DBS) can normalize aberrant dopamine neuron activity and behaviours associated with positive symptoms. In addition, we provide evidence that this approach may also be effective in restoring deficits in cognitive function, often left unaltered by conventional antipsychotic medications. Therefore, we have provided initial preclinical evidence demonstrating the feasibility of hippocampal DBS as a potential novel approach for the treatment of schizophrenia.
Developmental changes in responsiveness of rat spiral ganglion neurons (SGNs) to neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) were examined using an explant culture system. Spiral ganglion (SG) explants at embryonic Day 18 (E18), postnatal Day 0 (P0), P5, P10 and P20 were cultured with the addition of either NT-3 or BDNF at various concentrations (0.1-100 ng/ml) and analyzed the dose-response characteristics of three parameters: SGN survival, the number of neurites emanating from the explants and the length of neurite extension. In E18 cultures, SGN survival and neurite number were enhanced more strongly by NT-3 than by the BDNF. As the explants became more mature, the effects of NT-3 decreased, whereas those of BDNF increased, peaking at P0. Although the intrinsic capacity of SGNs to produce and extend neurites declined considerably by P20, they still retained the capacity to respond to both NT-3 and BDNF. These temporal patterns in responsiveness of SGNs to neurotrophins correspond well to the expression pattern of the two neurotrophins in cochlear sensory epithelium in vivo and also correlate with the time course of developmental events in SGNs such as cell death and the establishment of mature hair cell innervation patterns.

Serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) is an important neuroactive and morphogenetic molecule in several metazoan phyla, including flatworms. Serotoninergic nervous system studies are incomplete and 5-HT function/s are unknown in Echinococcus spp., the flatworm parasites that cause hydatid disease. In the present work, we searched for genes of the serotoninergic pathway and performed immunocytochemical and functional analyses of 5-HT in Echinococcus spp. Bioinformatic analysis using the recently available Echinococcus multilocularis and Echinococcus granulosus genomes suggests the presence of genes encoding enzymes, receptors and transporters participating in 5-HT synthesis, sensing and transport in these parasites. However, some components of the pathway could not be identified, suggesting loss or divergence of parasite homologous genes. The serotoninergic neuroanatomy study performed by confocal scanning laser microscopy on different E. granulosus stages showed an increasing level of complexity when the protoscolex develops towards the adult stage and a progressive diminution when the parasite develops towards the metacestode stage. The role of 5-HT as a neurotransmitter in E. granulosus was evaluated by determining the effect of this substance on protoscolex motility. The addition of 5-HT to protoscoleces induced a significant increase in motility for short time periods. Preincubation with 100 M citalopram, a known 5-HT transporter inhibitor, abolished the 5-HT-induced increase in motility, indicating that the effect could be mediated by a 5-HT transporter. Incubation of protoscoleces with 5-HT for time periods of several days induced a progressive differentiation towards the metacestode stage. The results indicate that 5-HT could have nervous and prenervous roles during Echinococcus spp. development. Taking into account the important roles of 5-HT in parasite biology and the divergence of 5-HT pathway genes with respect to human counterparts, the serotoninergic system could be considered as an amenable drug target against hydatid disease.
The objective of the current study was to determine long-term test-retest reliability of the P3 NoGo wave as well as two independent components (IC P3 NoGo early and IC P3 NoGo late) decomposed from this wave by independent component analysis (ICA). For this purpose 19-channel EEG was recorded during a cued visual Go/NoGo task. First, spatial filters of the two independent components (ICs) were obtained by application of ICA to ERPs of 102 healthy adults. Second, in 26 individuals, ERPs were recorded from the same task a second time 6-18 months after the first recording. Statistical analyses were performed on both the P3 NoGo waves and the activation curves of the two ICs from both recordings. Amplitude and latency were estimated by &quot;peak&quot; and &quot;fractional area&quot; (FA) methods for both the P3 NoGo wave and ICs. Intraclass correlations (ICC) for latency were excellent (ICC&gt;.90) for both the P3 NoGo wave and the two ICs when measured with the FA method, and good (ICC&gt;.75) for amplitude measured by both methods (FA or peak). We conclude that the long-term stability of P3 NoGo wave and the two IC makes them well suited for reliable assessment of cognitive control function in research and clinic.
Recent progress in cognitive neuroscience suggests that alpha activity may reflect selective cortical inhibition involved in signal amplification, rather than neural idling. Unfortunately, these theoretical advances remain largely ignored in affective neuroscience. To address this limitation the present paper proposes a novel research avenue aimed at using alpha to elucidate cortical inhibitory mechanisms involved in affective processes. The proposal is illustrated by developing inhibitory accounts of affective attention and affective tuning phenomena. The emergent predictions were tested using event-related perturbations from 73 students evaluating affective and nonaffective aspects of five types of emotional images. The results revealed that upper alpha power was increased by affective content in general and aversive stimuli in particular from 350 ms at posterior and from 575 ms at central sites. The evaluation task interacted with affective content only at a liberal statistical significance level in late posterior alpha. These results are generally in line with the proposed inhibitory accounts of affective attention and tuning, although the evidence is preliminary rather than conclusive. As confirmation of functional origins of alpha in affect remains beyond the scope of a single study, this paper aims to inspire further extrapolation of the inhibitory account of alpha within affective neuroscience.

Circadian changes in visual sensitivity have been observed in a wide range of species, vertebrates, and invertebrates, but the processes impacted and the underlying mechanisms largely are unexplored. Among arthropods, effects of circadian signals on vision have been examined in most detail in the lateral compound eye (LE) of the American horseshoe crab, Limulus polyphemus, a chelicerate arthropod. As a consequence of processes influenced by a central circadian clock, Limulus can see at night nearly as well as they do during the day. The effects of the clock on horseshoe crab LE retinas are diverse and include changes in structure, gene expression, and rhabdom biochemistry. An examination of the known effects of circadian rhythms on LEs shows that the effects have three important outcomes: an increase in visual sensitivity at night, a rapid decrease in visual sensitivity at dawn, and maintenance of eyes in a relatively low state of sensitivity during the day, even in the dark. All three outcomes may be critically important for species' survival. Specific effects of circadian rhythms on vision will certainly vary with species and according to life styles. Studies of the circadian regulation of Limulus vision have revealed that these effects can be extremely diverse and profound and suggest that circadian clocks can play a critical role in the ability of animals to adapt to the dramatic daily changes in ambient illumination.

Nitro-containing heteroaromatic derivatives structurally related to nitroimidazole (Metronidazole) are being extensively evaluated against Helicobacter pylori isolates. On the other hand, 1,3,4-thiadiazole derivatives have also demonstrated promising antibacterial potential. In present study, we evaluated anti-H. pylori activity of novel hybrid molecules bearing nitroaryl and 1,3,4-thiadiazole moieties. Anti-H. pylori activity of novel 5-(5-nitroaryl)-1,3,4-thiadiazole derivatives bearing different bulky alkylthio side chains at C-2 position of thiadiazole ring, were assessed against three different metronidazole resistant H. pylori isolates by paper disk diffusion method. Most of the compounds demonstrated moderate to strong inhibitory response especially at 25 g/disk. The structure-activity relationship study of the compounds demonstrated that introduction of different alkylthio moieties at C-2 position of thiadiazole ring; alter the inhibitory activity which is mainly dependent on the type of C-5 attached nitrohetercyclic ring. The promising compound of this scaffold, bearing 1-methyl-5-nitroimidazole moiety at C-5 and -methylbenzylthio side chain at C-2 position of thiadiazole ring, showed strong inhibitory response against metronidazole resistant H. pylori isolates at 12.5 g/disk (the inhibition zone diameter at all evaluated concentrations (12.5- 100 g/disk) is &gt;50 mm). Novel 5-(5-nitroaryl)-1,3,4-thiadiazole scaffold bearing different C-2 attached thio-pendant moieties with promising anti-H. pylori potential were identified. Among different nitroheterocycles, 5-nitrofuran and 5-nitroimidazole moieties were preferable for the substitution at C-5 position of 1,3,4-thiadiazole ring. Introduction of different alkylthio side chains at C-2 position of central ring alter the inhibitory activity which is mainly dependent on the type of C-5 attached nitrohetercyclic ring.
The aim of the present study was to investigate the clinical usefulness of a semi-structured diagnostic parent interview, i.e., the Kiddie-Disruptive Behavior Disorder Schedule (K-DBDS), in preschool children. For Oppositional Defiant Disorder (ODD), to define symptoms two coding methods were compared, i.e., one based on the threshold &quot;often&quot; and the other based on the frequency of behaviors in combination with the presence of clinical concern. For Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD), to define symptoms, two coding methods were compared, i.e., one with and one without consideration of pervasiveness across contexts. Participants were referred preschool children with externalizing behavioral problems (N=193; 83% male) and typically developing (TD) children (N=58; 71% male). The referred children were given a diagnosis of either ODD/CD (N=39), or ADHD (N=58) or comorbid ODD/CD+ADHD (N=57) or no diagnosis (N=39) based on best-estimate diagnosis. Receiver Operating Characteristic curve analyses showed that a cutoff score of four ODD symptoms using &quot;often&quot; as the threshold for frequency of behaviors led to a sensitivity of 87% and a specificity of 93%; the coding method which included the frequency of behaviors yielded a sensitivity of 56% and a specificity of 100%. For ADHD, a clinical cutoff score of five symptoms without the pervasiveness criterion yielded a sensitivity of 83% and a specificity of 98%; when the pervasiveness criterion was included sensitivity was 77% and specificity 98%. In the clinical assessment of ODD and ADHD in preschool children, the K-DBDS may be used with ODD symptom definition based on the threshold &quot;often&quot; and ADHD pervasiveness across contexts not included.
Flattening the fundamental frequency (F0) contours of Mandarin Chinese sentences reduces their intelligibility in noise but not in quiet. It is unclear, however, how the absence of primary acoustic cue for lexical tones might be compensated with the top-down information of sentence context. In this study, speech intelligibility was evaluated when participants listened to sentences and word lists with or without F0 variations in quiet and noise. The results showed that sentence context partially explained the unchanged intelligibility of monotonous Chinese sentences in quiet and further indicate that F0 variations and sentence context act in concert during speech comprehension.
Although stimulus-frequency otoacoustic emissions (SFOAEs) offer compelling advantages as noninvasive probes of cochlear function, they remain underutilized compared to other evoked emission types, such as distortion-products (DPOAEs), whose measurement methods are less complex and time-consuming. Motivated by similar advances in the measurement of DPOAEs, this paper develops and characterizes a more efficient SFOAE measurement paradigm based on swept tones. In contrast to standard SFOAE measurement methods, in which the emissions are measured in the sinusoidal steady-state using discrete tones of well defined frequency, the swept-tone method sweeps rapidly across frequency (typically at rates of 1Hz/ms or greater) using a chirp-like stimulus. Measurements obtained using both swept- and discrete-tone methods in an interleaved suppression paradigm demonstrate that the two methods of measuring SFOAEs yield nearly equivalent results, the differences between them being comparable to the run-to-run variability encountered using either method alone. The match appears robust to variations in measurement parameters, such as sweep rate and direction. The near equivalence of the SFOAEs obtained using the two measurement methods enables the interpretation of swept-tone SFOAEs within existing theoretical frameworks. Furthermore, the data demonstrate that SFOAE phase-gradient delays-including their large and irregular fluctuations across frequency-reflect actual physical time delays at different frequencies, showing that the physical emission latency, not merely the phase gradient, is inherently irregular.


The goal of this study was to determine if exposure to sensorimotor adaptation training improved head stabilization in older adults. Sixteen participants, age 66-81 yr, were assigned at random to the control group (n = 8) or the experimental group (n = 8). Both groups first completed 6 trials of walking a foam pathway consisting of a moveable platform that induced a lateral perturbation during walking. Head-in-space and trunk-in-space angular velocities were collected. Participants from both groups then trained twice per week for 4 wk. Both groups walked on a treadmill for 20 min. The control group viewed a static scene. The experimental group viewed a rotating visual scene that provided a perceptual-motor mismatch. After training, both groups were retested on the perturbation pathway test. The experimental group used a movement strategy that preserved head stabilization compared with the controls (p &lt; .05). This training effect was not retained after 4 wk.


Many physiological and molecular processes are strongly rhythmic and profoundly influenced by sleep. The continuing effort of biological, medical, and veterinary science to understand the temporal organization of cellular, physiological, behavioral and cognitive function holds great promise for the improvement of the welfare of animals and human beings. As a result, attending veterinarians and IACUC are often charged with the responsibility of evaluating experiments on such rhythms or the effects of sleep (or its deprivation) in vertebrate animals. To produce interpretable data, animals used in such research must often be maintained in carefully controlled (often constant) conditions with minimal disruption. The lighting environment must be strictly controlled, frequent changes of cages and bedding are undesirable, and daily visual checks are often not possible. Thus deviations from the standard housing procedures specified in the Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals are often necessary. This report reviews requirements for experiments on biological rhythms and sleep and discusses how scientific considerations can be reconciled with the recommendations of the Guide.

Although more schools are offering mental health programs, few studies have involved the school community in research to improve their successful implementation. In this community-partnered study, focus groups were conducted with school staff and parents to explore issues related to community engagement and feasibility of a mental health intervention for elementary school students exposed to trauma. Four educator focus groups, including 23 participants, and 2 parent focus groups, consisting of 9 Spanish-speaking and 7 English-speaking parents were conducted. Participants discussed facilitators and barriers to successful implementation of the program. Participants identified the importance of pre-implementation parent education, raising awareness of the impact of student mental health among educators, maintaining ongoing communication during the intervention, and addressing logistical concerns. Participants described clear considerations for parent and educator engagement, both at the pre-implementation phase and during implementation of the program. Implications for next steps of this community-partnered approach are described.
In previous studies, we have found that extracellular guanosine can stimulate endogenous progenitor/stem cell proliferation in the spinal cord following chronic injury and in the subventricular zone of the brains of rats afflicted with Parkinson's Disease. In this study, using neural stem cells isolated from one-day old rats, we found that guanosine could stimulate neural stem cell proliferation, and that the proliferation was not due to the guanosine metabolism mechanism since guanine, which is interconverted by an ecto-purine nucleoside phosphorylase from guanosine, has no stimulating effect on the proliferation of neural stem cells. We determined that second messenger cAMP was involved in the pathway as results showed that 100 microM guanosine stimulated cAMP accumulation. Using western blot analysis, we found that 100 microM guanosine can activate the phosphorylation of CREB without changing the total amount of CREB. In conclusion, guanosine can stimulate neural stem cell proliferation, and the cAMP-CREB pathway is involved in this biological effect.
The TrkA-PathHunter cell-based assay was used in high-throughput screening (HTS) to identify compounds that inhibit nerve growth factor (NGF)/TrkA signaling. The assay was conducted in a 384-well format, and typical Z' values during HTS ranged from 0.3 to 0.8. The reproducibility of IC50 values was good, and the use of cryopreserved cells was well tolerated, as judged by assay parameters such as Z' and S/B and by comparison of IC50 values obtained with cells in culture. During hit deconvolution, TrkA-kinase inhibitors were identified with ATP-competitive as well as non-ATP-competitive mechanisms of action. Furthermore, other mechanisms of action such as NGF and TrkA antagonists were also identified. Because of the different molecular mechanisms identified, it is possible that subsequent optimization work to increase affinity and selectivity might lead to compounds that could have a better chance to evoke clinical efficacy without the adverse effects observed for nonselective TrkA inhibitors.
Globoid cell leukodystrophy (GLD) or Krabbe disease is a lysosomal storage disorder caused by genetic defects in the expression and activity of galactosylceramidase, a key enzyme in the catabolism of myelin-enriched sphingolipids. While there are several histologic, biochemical, and functional studies on GLD, correlations between morphologic and biochemical alterations in central nervous system (CNS) tissues during disease progression are lacking. Here, we combined immunohistochemistry and metabolic analysis using (1)H and (13)C magnetic resonance (MR) spectra of spinal cord, cerebellum, and forebrain to investigate glial-neuronal metabolic interactions and dysfunction in a GLD murine model that recapitulates the human pathology. In order to assess the temporal- and region-dependent disease progression and the potential metabolic correlates, we investigated CNS tissues at mildly symptomatic and fully symptomatic stages of the disease. When compared with age-matched controls, GLD mice showed glucose hypometabolism, alterations in neurotransmitter content, N-acetylaspartate, N-acetylaspartylglutamate, and osmolytes levels. Notably, age- and region-dependent patterns of metabolic disturbances were in close agreement with the progression of astrogliosis, microglia activation, apoptosis, and neurodegeneration. We suggest that MR spectroscopy could be used in vivo to monitor disease progression, as well as ex vivo and in vivo to provide criteria for the outcome of experimental therapies.
Although certain metabolic characteristics such as interictal glucose hypometabolism are well established for temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE), its pathogenesis still remains unclear. Here, we performed a comprehensive study of brain metabolism in a mouse model of TLE, induced by pilocarpine-status epilepticus (SE). To investigate glucose metabolism, we injected mice 3.5-4 weeks after SE with [1,2-(13)C]glucose before microwave fixation of the head. Using (1)H and (13)C nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy, gas chromatography-mass spectrometry and high-pressure liquid chromatography, we quantified metabolites and (13)C labeling in extracts of cortex and hippocampal formation (HF). Hippocampal levels of glutamate, glutathione and alanine were decreased in pilocarpine-SE mice compared with controls. Moreover, the contents of N-acetyl aspartate, succinate and reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (phosphate) NAD(P)H were decreased in HF indicating impairment of mitochondrial function. In addition, the reduction in (13)C enrichment of hippocampal citrate and malate suggests decreased tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle turnover in this region. In cortex, we found reduced (13)C labeling of glutamate, glutamine and aspartate via the pyruvate carboxylation and pyruvate dehydrogenation pathways, suggesting slower turnover of these amino acids and/or the TCA cycle. In conclusion, mitochondrial metabolic dysfunction and altered amino-acid metabolism is found in both cortex and HF in this epilepsy model.
Retinal microvascular changes can be visualized noninvasively and have been associated with cognitive decline and brain changes in relation to aging and vascular disease. We systematically reviewed studies, published between 1990 and November 2012, on the association between retinal microvascular changes and dementia, cognitive functioning, and brain imaging abnormalities, in the context of aging and vascular risk factors. In cross-sectional studies (k=26), retinal microvascular changes were associated with the presence of dementia (range of odds ratios (ORs) 1.17;5.57), with modest decrements in cognitive functioning in nondemented people (effect sizes -0.25;0.03), and with brain imaging abnormalities, including atrophy and vascular lesions (ORs 0.94;2.95). Longitudinal studies were more sparse (k=9) and showed no consistent associations between retinal microvascular changes and dementia or cognitive dysfunctioning 3 to 15 years later (ORs and hazard ratios 0.77;1.55). However, there were indications of prospective associations with brain imaging abnormalities ((ORs) 0.81;3.19). In conclusion, particularly in cross-sectional studies there is a correlation between retinal microvascular changes and dementia, cognitive impairment, and brain imaging abnormalities. Associations are strongest for more severe retinal microvascular abnormalities. Retinal microvascular abnormalities may offer an important window on the brain for etiological studies.
A metabolite corrected arterial input function is a prerequisite for quantification of positron emission tomography (PET) data by compartmental analysis. This quantitative approach is also necessary for radioligands without suitable reference regions in brain. The measurement is laborious and requires cannulation of a peripheral artery, a procedure that can be associated with patient discomfort and potential adverse events. A non invasive procedure for obtaining the arterial input function is thus preferable. In this study, we present a novel method to obtain image-derived input functions (IDIFs). The method is based on calculation of the Pearson correlation coefficient between the time-activity curves of voxel pairs in the PET image to localize voxels displaying blood-like behavior. The method was evaluated using data obtained in human studies with the radioligands [(11)C]flumazenil and [(11)C]AZ10419369, and its performance was compared with three previously published methods. The distribution volumes (VT) obtained using IDIFs were compared with those obtained using traditional arterial measurements. Overall, the agreement in VT was good (3% difference) for input functions obtained using the pairwise correlation approach. This approach performed similarly or even better than the other methods, and could be considered in applied clinical studies. Applications to other radioligands are needed for further verification.
Glial cells constitute a large percentage of cells in the nervous system. During recent years, a large number of studies have critically attributed to glia a new role which no longer reflects the long-held view that glia constitute solely a silent and passive supportive scaffolding for brain cells. Indeed, it has been hypothesized that glia, partnering neurons, have a much more actively participating role in brain function. Alteration of intraglial ionic homeostasis in response to ischemic injury has a crucial role in inducing and maintaining glial responses in the ischemic brain. Therefore, glial transporters as potential candidates in stroke intervention are becoming promising targets to enhance an effective and additional therapy for brain ischemia. In this review, we will describe in detail the role played by ionic transporters in influencing astrocyte, microglia, and oligodendrocyte activity and the implications that these transporters have in the progression of ischemic lesion.
Blood-brain barrier (BBB) dysfunction in acute liver failure (ALF) results in increased BBB permeability that often precludes the patients from obtaining a life-saving liver transplantation. It remains controversial whether matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) from the injured liver contributes to the deregulation of BBB function in ALF. We selectively upregulated a physiologic inhibitor of MMP-9 (TIMP-1) with a single intracerebroventricular injection of TIMP-1 cDNA plasmids at 48 and 72hours, or with pegylated-TIMP-1 protein. Acute liver failure was induced with tumor necrosis factor- and D-(+)-galactosamine in mice. Permeability of BBB was assessed with sodium fluorescein (NaF) extravasation. We found a significant increase in TIMP-1 within the central nervous system (CNS) after the administration of TIMP-1 cDNA plasmids and that increased TIMP-1 within the CNS resulted in an attenuation of BBB permeability, a reduction in activation of epidermal growth factor receptor and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase signals, and a restoration of the tight junction protein occludin in mice with experimental ALF. Pegylated TIMP-1 provided similar protection against BBB permeability in mice with ALF. Our results provided a proof of principle that MMP-9 contributes to the BBB dysfunction in ALF and suggests a potential therapeutic role of TIMP-1 in ALF.
White matter ischemia is difficult to quantify histologically. Myelin-associated glycoprotein (MAG) is highly susceptible to ischemia, being expressed only adaxonally, far from the oligodendrocyte cell body. Myelin-basic protein (MBP) and proteolipid protein (PLP) are expressed throughout the myelin sheath. We compared MAG, MBP, and PLP levels in parietal white matter homogenates from 17 vascular dementia (VaD), 49 Alzheimer's disease (AD), and 33 control brains, after assessing the post-mortem stability of these proteins. Small vessel disease (SVD) and cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) severity had been assessed in paraffin sections. The concentration of MAG remained stable post-mortem, declined with increasing SVD, and was significantly lower in VaD than controls. The concentration of MBP fell progressively post-mortem, limiting its diagnostic utility in this context. Proteolipid protein was stable post-mortem and increased significantly with SVD severity. The MAG/PLP ratio declined significantly with SVD and CAA severity. The MAG and PLP levels and MAG/PLP did not differ significantly between AD and control brains. We validated the utility of MAG and MAG/PLP measurements on analysis of 74 frontal white matter samples from an Oxford cohort in which SVD had previously been scored. MAG concentration and the MAG/PLP ratio are useful post-mortem measures of ante-mortem white matter ischemia.
Alternating hemiplegia of childhood is a rare, predominantly sporadic disorder. Diagnosis is clinical, and little is known about genetics. Glucose transporter 1 deficiency syndrome shares with alternating hemiplegia of childhood paroxysmal and nonparoxysmal symptoms. The aim of the study was to investigate glucose transporter 1 mutations in 30 Italian patients. Genetic material was analyzed by DNA amplification and glucose transporter 1 region sequencing. Mutational analysis findings of the SLC2A1 gene were negative in all patients. The pattern of movement disorders was reviewed. Interictal dystonia and multiple paroxysmal events were typical of alternating hemiplegia of childhood. In conclusion, alternating hemiplegia of childhood is a heterogeneous clinical condition, and although glucose transporter 1 deficiency can represent an undiagnosed cause of this disorder, mutational analysis is not routinely recommended. Alternatively, a careful clinical analysis and the 3-O-methyl-D-glucose uptake test can allow prompt identification of a subgroup of patients with alternating hemiplegia of childhood treatable with a ketogenic diet.
Understanding the true nature of an individual, be it a child or an adult, a male or a female, is almost an impossible task. The vast abyss like behaviour of a human mind is virtually unfathomable. Yet, with the advent of neurosciences, it can be said that we, as the medical fraternity, have been in a position to decipher a considerable part of the human mind. This review accepts the fact that religion and theology have extreme reverence and respect. Yet, when it comes to extraordinary beliefs, phenomena, unimaginable feats and emotional deviations of the human mind, especially those which involve deep faiths and beliefs, comprehensive neuroscientific explanations from the emerging data, with the aid of elaborate neuroimaging, have proved to be extremely rational and logical. This review did make an attempt to untangle some facets of spirituality and to make rational explanations of the same. It was an attempt to understand the function of the mind (as an abstract) and the brain, on the spiritual experiences and sudden enlightments, the experience of togetherness with the universe, and to understand the phenomena of trance and an altered state of consciousness, which is better referred as the emerging science of neurotheology.

Based on the Corticosteroid Randomisation after Significant Head Injury (CRASH) trial database, a prognosis calculator has been developed for the prediction of outcome in an individual patient with a head injury. In 47 patients with severe traumatic brain injury (sTBI) prospectively treated using an intracranial pressure (ICP) targeted therapy, the individual prognosis for mortality at 14 days and unfavourable outcome at 6 months was calculated and compared with the actual outcome. An overestimation of the risk of mortality and unfavourable outcome was found. The mean risk for mortality and unfavourable outcome were estimated to be 44.632.5% (95% confidence interval [CI], 35.1-54.2%) and 69.323.7% (95% CI, 62.3-76.2%). The actual outcome was 4.3% and 42.6% respectively. The absolute risk reduction (ARR) for mortality was 33.1% and for unfavourable outcome 29.8%. A logistic fit for outcome at 6 months shows a statistically significant difference (p&lt;0.01). A receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis shows an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.691. The CRASH prognosis calculator overestimates the risk of mortality and unfavourable outcome in patients with sTBI treated with an ICP-targeted therapy based on the Lund concept. We do not advocate the use of the calculator for treatment decisions in individual patients. We further conclude that patients with blunt sTBI admitted within 8 hours of trauma should be treated regardless of their clinical status as long as the initial cerebral perfusion pressure is &gt;10 mmHg.
Methotrexate (MTX), a folate antagonist, is widely used to treat hematological malignancies. Although it is known to cause myelopathy, little is known about the pathophysiology and natural history of this myelopathy. We describe a 42-year-old woman with acute lymphoblastic leukemia who was treated with chemotherapy consisting of intrathecal MTX who developed a progressive myelopathy. The myelopathy mimicked, radiologically, subacute combined degeneration (SACD) of the spinal cord. This myelopathy mimicking SACD could be explained by the folate antagonism of MTX. The progressive clinical signs and serial MRI in this patient further our understanding of the natural progression of this myelopathy.
High-voltage electrical burns can cause immediate and long-term neurological and cerebrovascular injuries. The authors present a 21-year-old man who developed an intracranial arteriovenous fistula secondary to high-voltage electrical injury. CT angiography demonstrated a left supraclinoid internal carotid artery (ICA)-inferior petrosal sinus (IPS) fistula. A subsequent angiogram revealed an irregularity of the cavernous and supraclinoid ICA with stenosis involving the supraclinoid segment and a fistulous connection between the ICA and IPS distal to the ophthalmic take-off and proximal to the anterior choroidal artery. The patient underwent a decompressive hemicraniectomy and clip-wrapping of his ICA pseudoaneurysm with successful obliteration of the fistulous connection. To our knowledge, this is the first report of an intracranial arteriovenous fistula secondary to an electrical burn injury.


We used electrophysiology to determine the time course and distribution of neural activation during an English word rhyme task in hearing and congenitally deaf adults. Behavioral performance by hearing participants was at ceiling and their ERP data replicated two robust effects repeatedly observed in the literature. First, a sustained negativity, termed the contingent negative variation, was elicited following the first stimulus word. This negativity was asymmetric, being more negative over the left than right sites. The second effect we replicated in hearing participants was an enhanced negativity (N450) to nonrhyming second stimulus words. This was largest over medial, parietal regions of the right hemisphere. Accuracy on the rhyme task by the deaf group as a whole was above chance level, yet significantly poorer than hearing participants. We examined only ERP data from deaf participants who performed the task above chance level (n = 9). We observed indications of subtle differences in ERP responses between deaf and hearing groups. However, overall the patterns in the deaf group were very similar to that in the hearing group. Deaf participants, just as hearing participants, showed greater negativity to nonrhyming than rhyming words. Furthermore the onset latency of this effect was the same as that observed in hearing participants. Overall, the neural processes supporting explicit phonological judgments are very similar in deaf and hearing people, despite differences in the modality of spoken language experience. This supports the suggestion that phonological processing is to a large degree amodal or supramodal.
The loss of cognitive function in Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients is strongly correlated with the loss of neurons in various regions of the brain. We have created a new fluorescent bigenic mouse model of AD by crossing &quot;H-line&quot; yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) mice with the 5xFAD mouse model, which we call the 5XY mouse model. The 5xFAD mouse has been shown to have significant loss of L5 pyramidal neurons by 12 months of age. These neurons are transgenically labeled with YFP in the 5XY mouse, which enable longitudinal imaging of structural changes. In the 5XY mice, we observed an appearance of axonal dystrophies, with two distinct morphologies in the early stages of the disease progression. Simple swelling dystrophies are transient in nature and are not directly associated with amyloid plaques. Rosette dystrophies are more complex structures that remained stable throughout all imaging sessions, and always surrounded an amyloid plaque. Plaque growth was followed over 4 weeks, and significant growth was seen between weekly imaging sessions. In addition to axonal dystrophy appearance and plaque growth, we were able to follow spine stability in 4-month old 5XY mice, which revealed no significant loss of spines. 5XY mice also showed a striking shrinkage of the neocortex at older ages (12-14 months). The 5XY mouse model may be a valuable tool for studying specific events in the degeneration of the neocortex, and may suggest new avenues for therapeutic intervention.
The loss of cognitive function in Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients is strongly correlated with the loss of neurons in various regions of the brain. We have created a new fluorescent bigenic mouse model of AD by crossing &quot;H-line&quot; yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) mice with the 5xFAD mouse model, which we call the 5XY mouse model. The 5xFAD mouse has been shown to have significant loss of L5 pyramidal neurons by 12 months of age. These neurons are transgenically labeled with YFP in the 5XY mouse, which enable longitudinal imaging of structural changes. In the 5XY mice, we observed an appearance of axonal dystrophies, with two distinct morphologies in the early stages of the disease progression. Simple swelling dystrophies are transient in nature and are not directly associated with amyloid plaques. Rosette dystrophies are more complex structures that remained stable throughout all imaging sessions, and always surrounded an amyloid plaque. Plaque growth was followed over 4 weeks, and significant growth was seen between weekly imaging sessions. In addition to axonal dystrophy appearance and plaque growth, we were able to follow spine stability in 4-month old 5XY mice, which revealed no significant loss of spines. 5XY mice also showed a striking shrinkage of the neocortex at older ages (12-14 months). The 5XY mouse model may be a valuable tool for studying specific events in the degeneration of the neocortex, and may suggest new avenues for therapeutic intervention.
The noradrenergic locus coeruleus (LC) regulates arousal, memory, sympathetic nervous system activity, and pain. Forebrain projections to LC have been characterized in rat, cat, and primates, but not systematically in mouse. We surveyed mouse forebrain LC-projecting neurons by examining retrogradely labeled cells following LC iontophoresis of Fluoro-Gold and anterograde LC labeling after forebrain injection of biotinylated dextran amine or viral tracer. Similar to other species, the central amygdalar nucleus (CAmy), anterior hypothalamus, paraventricular nucleus, and posterior lateral hypothalamic area (PLH) provide major LC inputs. By using mice expressing green fluorescent protein in -aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic neurons, we found that more than one-third of LC-projecting CAmy and PLH neurons are GABAergic. LC colocalization of biotinylated dextran amine, following CAmy or PLH injection, with either green fluorescent protein or glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD)65/67 immunoreactivity confirmed these GABAergic projections. CAmy injection of adeno-associated virus encoding channelrhodopsin-2-Venus showed similar fiber labeling and association with GAD65/67-immunoreactive (ir) and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-ir neurons. CAmy and PLH projections were densest in a pericoerulear zone, but many fibers entered the LC proper. Close apposition between CAmy GABAergic projections and TH-ir processes suggests that CAmy GABAergic neurons may directly inhibit noradrenergic principal neurons. Direct LC neuron targeting was confirmed by anterograde transneuronal labeling of LC TH-ir neurons following CAmy or PLH injection of a herpes virus that expresses red fluorescent protein following activation by Cre recombinase in mice that express Cre recombinase in GABAergic neurons. This description of GABAergic projections from the CAmy and PLH to the LC clarifies important forebrain sources of inhibitory control of central nervous system noradrenergic activity.
Astrocytes in the posterodorsal portion of the medial amygdala (MePD) are sexually dimorphic in adult rats: males have more astrocytes in the right MePD and more elaborate processes in the left MePD than do females. Functional androgen receptors (ARs) are required for masculinization of MePD astrocytes, as these measures are demasculinized in adult males carrying the testicular feminization mutation (Tfm) of the AR gene, which renders AR dysfunctional. We now report that the number of astrocytes is already sexually dimorphic in the right MePD of juvenile 25-day-old (P25) rats. Because Tfm males have as many astrocytes as wild-type males at this age, this prepubertal sexual dimorphism is independent of ARs. After P25, astrocyte number increases in the MePD of all groups, but activation of ARs augments this increase in the right MePD, where more astrocytes are added in males than in Tfm males. Consequently, by adulthood, females and Tfm males have equivalent numbers of astrocytes in the right MePD. Sexual dimorphism in astrocyte arbor complexity in the left MePD arises after P25, and is entirely AR-dependent. Thus, masculinization of MePD astrocytes is a result of both AR-independent processes before the juvenile period and AR-dependent processes afterward.
Nonmammalian vertebrates have a remarkable capacity to regenerate brain tissue in response to central nervous system (CNS) injury. Nevertheless, it is not clear whether animals recover lost function after injury or whether injury-induced cell proliferation mediates recovery. We address these questions using the visual system and visually-guided behavior in Xenopus laevis tadpoles. We established a reproducible means to produce a unilateral focal injury to optic tectal neurons without damaging retinotectal axons. We then assayed a tectally-mediated visual avoidance behavior to evaluate behavioral impairment and recovery. Focal ablation of part of the optic tectum prevents the visual avoidance response to moving stimuli. Animals recover the behavior over the week following injury. Injury induces a burst of proliferation of tectal progenitor cells based on phospho-histone H3 immunolabeling and experiments showing that Musashi-immunoreactive tectal progenitors incorporate the thymidine analog chlorodeoxyuridine after injury. Pulse chase experiments indicate that the newly-generated cells differentiate into N--tubulin-immunoreactive neurons. Furthermore, in vivo time-lapse imaging shows that Sox2-expressing neural progenitors divide in response to injury and generate neurons with elaborate dendritic arbors. These experiments indicate that new neurons are generated in response to injury. To test if neurogenesis is necessary for recovery from injury, we blocked cell proliferation in vivo and found that recovery of the visual avoidance behavior is inhibited by drugs that block cell proliferation. Moreover, behavioral recovery is facilitated by changes in visual experience that increase tectal progenitor cell proliferation. Our data indicate that neurogenesis in the optic tectum is critical for recovery of visually-guided behavior after injury.




Electroreception is an ancient vertebrate sense with a fascinating evolutionary history involving multiple losses as well as independent evolution at least twice within teleosts. We review the phylogenetic distribution of electroreception and the morphology and innervation of electroreceptors in different vertebrate groups. We summarise recent work from our laboratory that has confirmed the homology of ampullary electroreceptors in non-teleost jawed vertebrates by showing, in conjunction with previously published work, that these are derived embryonically from lateral line placodes. Finally, we review hypotheses to explain the distribution of electroreception within teleosts, including the hypothesis that teleost ampullary and tuberous electroreceptors evolved via the modification of mechanosensory hair cells in lateral line neuromasts. We conclude that further experimental work on teleost electroreceptor development is needed to test such hypotheses.
The ghost knifefishes (family Apteronotidae) are one of the most successful and diverse families of electric fish. Like other weakly electric fish, apteronotids produce electric organ discharges (EODs) that function in electrolocation and communication. This review highlights the diversity in the structure, function and sexual dimorphism of electrocommunication signals within and across apteronotid species. EOD frequency (EODf) and waveform vary as a function of species, sex and/or social rank. Sex differences in EODf are evolutionarily labile; apteronotid species express every pattern of sexual dimorphism in EODf (males&gt;females; males&lt;females; males=females). The direction and magnitude of sex differences in EODf are correlated across species and populations with the responsiveness of EODf to androgens and/or estrogens, which suggests that sex differences evolve through gains and/or losses of hormone sensitivity. During social interactions, apteronotids also modulate their EODs to produce motivational signals known as chirps. Chirp structure differs markedly across species, and many species produce two or more discrete chirp types with potentially different functions. The structure of chirps is sexually dimorphic in all apteronotid species, and chirping is influenced by gonadal steroids and by neuromodulators. Encoding of chirps by the electrosensory system depends on the social context created by the interactions of the EODs of signalers and receivers. Electrosensory systems may thus influence the evolution of signal structure and function, and neuromodulators may coordinately shape the production and reception of electrocommunication signals depending on social context.
This first cross-country twin study of individual differences in reading growth from post-kindergarten to post-second grade analyzed data from 487 twin pairs from the United States, 267 twin pairs from Australia, and 280 twin pairs from Scandinavia. Data from two reading measures were fit to biometric latent growth models. Individual differences for the reading measures at post-kindergarten in the United States and Australia were due primarily to genetic influences and to both genetic and shared environmental influences in Scandinavia. In contrast, individual differences in growth generally had large genetic influences in all countries. These results suggest that genetic influences are largely responsible for individual differences in early reading development. In addition, the timing of the start of formal literacy instruction may affect the etiology of individual differences in early reading development but have only limited influence on the etiology of individual differences in growth.
In four experiments rats were conditioned to an auditory conditioned stimulus (conditioned stimulus; CS) that was paired with food, and learning about the CS was compared across two conditions in which the mean duration of the CS was equated. In one, the CS was of a single, fixed duration on every trial, and in the other the CS duration was drawn from an exponential distribution, and hence changed from trial to trial. Higher rates of conditioned responding to the fixed than to the variable stimulus were observed, in both between- (Experiment 1) and within-subject designs (Experiments 2 and 3). Moreover, this difference was maintained when stimuli trained with fixed or variable durations were tested under identical conditions (i.e., with equal numbers of fixed and variable duration trials)-suggesting that the difference could not be attributed to performance effects (Experiment 3). In order to estimate the speed of acquisition of conditioned responding, the scaled cumulative distribution of a Weibull function was fitted to the trial-by-trial response rates for each rat. In the within-subject experiments specific differences in the pattern of acquisition to fixed and variable CS were shown; a somewhat different pattern was found when intertrial interval (ITI) was manipulated (Experiment 4). The implications of these findings for theories of conditioning and timing are discussed.
Mutations in the GJB2 gene, which encodes Cx26, are the most common cause of sensorineural deafness. In syndromic cases, such as keratitis-ichthyosis-deafness (KID) syndrome, in which deafness is accompanied by corneal inflammation and hyperkeratotic skin, aberrant hemichannel function has emerged as the leading contributing factor. We found that D50N, the most frequent mutation associated with KID syndrome, produces multiple aberrant hemichannel properties, including loss of inhibition by extracellular Ca(2+), decreased unitary conductance, increased open hemichannel current rectification and voltage-shifted activation. We demonstrate that D50 is a pore-lining residue and that negative charge at this position strongly influences open hemichannel properties. Examination of two putative intersubunit interactions involving D50 suggested by the Cx26 crystal structure, K61-D50 and Q48-D50, showed no evidence of a K61-D50 interaction in hemichannels. However, our data suggest that Q48 and D50 interact and disruption of this interaction shifts hemichannel activation positive along the voltage axis. Additional shifts in activation by extracellular Ca(2+) remained in the absence of a D50-Q48 interaction but required an Asp or Glu at position 50, suggesting a separate electrostatic mechanism that critically involves this position. In gap junction (GJ) channels, D50 substitutions produced loss of function, whereas K61 substitutions functioned as GJ channels but not as hemichannels. These data demonstrate that D50 exerts effects on Cx26 hemichannel and GJ channel function as a result of its dual role as a pore residue and a component of an intersubunit complex in the extracellular region of the hemichannel. Differences in the effects of substitutions in GJ channels and hemichannels suggest that perturbations in structure occur upon hemichannel docking that significantly impact function. Collectively, these data provide insight into Cx26 structure-function and the underlying bases for the phenotypes associated with KID syndrome patients carrying the D50N mutation.
We discuss the comments on our article &quot;Sleep quality, arousal and pain thresholds in migraineurs. A blinded controlled polysomnographic study&quot; published in JHP 2013 Feb 14;14(1):12. We hypothesize that migraineurs need more sleep than healthy controls and more sleep than they manage to achieve. Some migraineurs probably have a decreased ability to process incoming stimuli. Increased spontaneous pain may follow either sleep restriction or sleep disturbance. A comparison of migraineurs with attack onset related to sleep, migraineurs with attack onset not related to sleep and controls will be reported in another paper.
While numerous historiographical works have been written to shed light on Freud's early theoretical education in biology, physiology, and medicine and on the influence of that education on psychoanalysis, this paper approaches Freud's basic comprehension of science and methodology by focusing on his early research practice in physiology and neuranatomy. This practice, taking place in the specific context of Ernst Brcke's physiological laboratory in Vienna, was deeply concerned with problems of visuality and the revelation of hidden organic structures by use of proper preparation techniques and optical instruments. The paper explores the connection between such visualizing practices, shaped by a physiological context as they were, and Freud's later convictions of the scientific status of psychoanalysis and the function of its method as means to unveil the concealed structure of the &quot;psychical apparatus&quot;.

Hypoglycaemia is characterized by decreased blood glucose levels and is associated with different pathologies (e.g. diabetes, inborn errors of metabolism). Depending on its severity, it might affect cognitive functions, including impaired judgment and decreased memory capacity, which have been linked to alterations of brain energy metabolism. Glucose is the major cerebral energy substrate in the adult brain and supports the complex metabolic interactions between neurons and astrocytes, which are essential for synaptic activity. Therefore, hypoglycaemia disturbs cerebral metabolism and, consequently, neuronal function. Despite the high vulnerability of neurons to hypoglycaemia, important neurochemical changes enabling these cells to prolong their resistance to hypoglycaemia have been described. This review aims at providing an overview over the main metabolic effects of hypoglycaemia on neurons, covering in vitro and in vivo findings. Recent studies provided evidence that non-glucose substrates including pyruvate, glycogen, ketone bodies, glutamate, glutamine, and aspartate, are metabolized by neurons in the absence of glucose and contribute to prolong neuronal function and delay ATP depletion during hypoglycaemia. One of the pathways likely implicated in the process is the pyruvate recycling pathway, which allows for the full oxidation of glutamate and glutamine. The operation of this pathway in neurons, particularly after hypoglycaemia, has been re-confirmed recently using metabolic modelling tools (i.e. Metabolic Flux Analysis), which allow for a detailed investigation of cellular metabolism in cultured cells. Overall, the knowledge summarized herein might be used for the development of potential therapies targeting neuronal protection in patients vulnerable to hypoglycaemic episodes.
The responses of olive fly (Bactrocera oleae) antennal and palpal olfactory receptors to odors emitted by Pseudomonas putida bacterial filtrate and to volatiles from a host plant were evaluated using electrophysiological and behavioral bioassays. Morphological identification of olfactory receptors was also performed. The third antennal segment (flagellum) bears four types of multiporous sensilla: trichoid, short basiconica, clavate and grooved. Maxillary palps have mechanosensory bristles and multiporous basiconica sensilla. In wind-tunnel bioassays, olive fly responses to volatiles emitted by bacterial filtrate were higher than those to culture medium. Bacterial filtrate was more attractive than ammonium carbonate or a mixture of ethyl acetate and acetic acid in ethanol. GC-MS of bacterial filtrate identified some of the chemicals produced by bacterial activity, including methyl thiolacetate, ammonia, 2-pentanone, 2-heptanone, ethyl tiglate and methyl thiocyanate. Electrophysiological investigations proved that antennal sensilla are responsive to bacterial filtrate odor, methyl thiolacetate, olive leaves and olives, as well as to -pinene, while acetic acid elicited an inhibitory response. Electropalpgrams recorded a specific response to bacterial filtrate by mated males and females, as well as a dose-dependent response relationship to methyl thiolacetate by mated females. The identification of new active volatile compounds in the semiochemical system of the olive fly is promising for the development of innovative control strategies in area-wide management.
Blood-sucking insects use olfactory cues in a variety of behavioral contexts, including host-seeking and aggregation. In triatomines, which are obligated blood-feeders, it has been shown that the response to CO2, a host-associated olfactory cue used almost universally by blood-sucking insects, is modulated by hunger. Host-finding is a particularly dangerous task for these insects, as their hosts are also their potential predators. Here we investigated whether olfactory responses to host-derived volatiles other than CO2 (nonanal, -pinene and (-)-limonene), attractive odorant mixtures (yeast volatiles), and aggregation pheromones (present in feces) are also modulated by starvation in the blood-sucking bug Rhodnius prolixus. For this, the responses of both non-starved and starved insects were individually tested at the beginning of the scotophase using a dual-choice &quot;T-shaped&quot; olfactometer, in which one of its arms presented odor-laden air and the other arm presented odorless air. We found that the response of non-starved insects toward host-odorants and odorant mixtures was odor-dependent: insects preferred the odor-laden arm of the maze when tested with -pinene, the odorless arm of the maze when tested with (-)-limonene, and distributed at random when tested with yeast volatiles or nonanal. In contrast, starved insects significantly preferred the odor-laden arm of the maze when tested with host-odorants or yeast volatiles. When tested with aggregation be, while starved insects preferred the odorless arm of the maze; insects that were even more starved (8-9 weeks post-ecdysis) significantly preferred the odor-laden arm of the maze. We postulate that this odor- and starvation-dependent modulation of sensory responses has a high adaptive value, as it minimizes the costs and risks associated with the associated behaviors. The possible physiological mechanisms underlying these modulatory effects are discussed.
Altered brain connectivity accompanies autism spectrum disorders (ASD), but the relationship between connectivity and intellectual abilities, which often differs within ASD, and between ASD and typically developing (TD) children, is not understood. Here, diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) was used to explore the relationship between white matter integrity and non-verbal intelligence quotients (IQ) in children with ASD and in age- and gender-matched TD children. Tract-based spatial statistical analyses (TBSS) of DTI fractional anisotropy (FA) revealed altered relationships between white matter and IQ. Different relationships were found using within-group analyses, where regions of significant (p &lt; .05, corrected) correlations in ASD overlapped minimally with regions of FA-IQ correlations in TD subjects. An additional between-groups analysis revealed significant correlation differences in widespread cortical and subcortical areas. These preliminary findings suggest altered brain connectivity may underlie some differences in intellectual abilities of ASD, and should be investigated further in larger samples as a function of development.
Fetal asphyctic preconditioning, induced by a brief episode of experimental hypoxia-ischemia, offers neuroprotection to a subsequent more severe asphyctic insult at birth. Extensive cell stress and apoptosis are important contributing factors of damage in the asphyctic neonatal brain. Because ceramide acts as a second messenger for multiple apoptotic stimuli, including hypoxia/ischemia, we sought to investigate the possible involvement of the ceramide pathway in endogenous neuroprotection induced by fetal asphyctic preconditioning. Global fetal asphyxia was induced in rats by clamping both uterine and ovarian vasculature for 30 min. Fetal asphyxia resulted in acute changes in brain ceramide/sphingomyelin metabolic enzymes, ceramide synthase 1, 2, and 5, acid sphingomyelinase, sphingosine-1-phosphate phosphatase, and the ceramide transporter. This observation correlated with an increase in neuronal apoptosis and in astrocyte number. After birth, ceramide and sphingomyelin levels remained high in fetal asphyxia brains, suggesting that a long-term regulation of the ceramide pathway may be involved in the mechanism of tolerance to a subsequent, otherwise lethal, asphyctic event.
Specific control of group IVA cytosolic phospholipase A2 (cPLA2 or PLA2G4A) expression modulates arachidonic acid production, thus tightly regulating the downstream effects of pro- and anti-inflammatory eicosanoids. The significance of this pathway in human disease is apparent in a range of pathologies from inflammation to tumorigenesis. While much of the regulation of cPLA2 has focused on posttranslational phosphorylation of the protein, studies on transcriptional regulation of this gene have focused only on proximal promoter regions. We have identified a DNase I hypersensitive site encompassing a 5' distal enhancer element containing a highly conserved consensus AP-1 site involved in transcriptional activation of cPLA2 by interleukin (IL)-1. Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP), knockdown, knockout, and overexpression analyses have shown that c-Jun acts both in a negative and positive regulatory role. Transcriptional activation of cPLA2 occurs through the phosphorylation of c-Jun in conjunction with increased association of C/EBP with the distal novel enhancer. The association of C/EBP with the transcriptional activation complex does not require an obvious DNA binding site. These data provide new and important contributions to the understanding of cPLA2 regulation at the transcriptional level, with implications for eicosanoid metabolism, cellular signaling, and disease pathogenesis.
Growth-fragmentation equations arise in many different contexts, ranging from cell division, protein polymerization, neurosciences etc. Direct observation of temporal dynamics being often difficult, it is of main interest to develop theoretical and numerical methods to recover reaction rates and parameters of the equation from indirect observation of the solution. Following the work done in Perthame and Zubelli (Inverse Probl 23:1037-1052, 2007) and Doumic et al. (2009) for the specific case of the cell division equation, we address here the general question of recovering the fragmentation rate of the equation from the observation of the time-asymptotic solution, when the fragmentation kernel and the growth rates are fully general. We give both theoretical results and numerical methods, and discuss the remaining issues.
Astrocytes are the most abundant glial cell type in the brain. Impairment in astrocyte functions can critically influence neuronal survival and leads to neurodegeneration. Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common neurodegenerative disorder, characterized by motor dysfunction that results from progressive neuronal loss. Astrocytic dysfunction was demonstrated in human samples and in experimental models of PD. Mutations in DJ-1 (PARK7) leading to loss of functional protein cause familial PD and enhance sensitivity to oxidative insults. Recently, an increase in DJ-1's expression was found in reactive astrocytes in various neurodegenerative disorders. Here we show that lack of DJ-1 attenuates astrocytes' ability to support neuronal cells, thereby leading to accelerated neuronal damage. DJ-1 knockout mice demonstrated increased vulnerability in vivo to 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) hemiparkinsonian PD model. Astrocytes isolated from DJ-1 knockout mice showed an inferior ability to protect human neuroblastoma cells against 6-OHDA insult both by co-culture and through their conditioned media, as compared to wild-type astrocytes. DJ-1 knockout astrocytes showed blunted ability to increase the expression of cellular protective mechanisms against oxidative stress mediated via Nrf-2 and HO-1 in response to exposure to 6-OHDA. These experiments demonstrated that lack of DJ-1 impairs astrocyte-mediated neuroprotection.
Imbalanced lipid metabolism and increase in the ceramide-to-S1P ratio in the brain have been postulated to play a role in amyloidogenesis, neuroinflammatory reactions, and neuronal apoptosis in Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology. FTY720, the immunomodulatory sphingosine 1-phosphate (S1P) analog, has recently gained interest because of its CNS-directed effects. In addition to its immunomodulatory functions in multiple sclerosis, FTY720 possesses anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective roles in different cerebral ischemia models. In the present study, we examined the effects of FTY720 in a rat model of AD. Memory deficit was induced by bilateral intrahippocampus injection of beta-amyloid peptide (A(42)) and examined through the Morris water maze test. The extent of histological injury in the hippocampus and the activation of caspase-3 were determined respectively by Nissl staining and Western blotting. Chronic daily administration of FTY720 (1 mg/kg, i.p., 14 days) significantly attenuated the A(42)-induced learning and memory impairment and prevented the hippocampus neuronal damage as well as caspase-3 activation. These data show for the first time that FTY720 has a beneficial effect in restoring memory loss in A(42)-induced neurotoxicity and also suggest that S1P receptors and signaling pathways may provide a potential target for the treatment of AD.
Spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy (SBMA), also known as Kennedy's disease, is a genetically inherited neuromuscular disorder characterized by loss of lower motor neurons in the brainstem and spinal cord and skeletal muscle fasciculation, weakness, and atrophy. SBMA is caused by expansion of a polyglutamine (polyQ) tract in the gene coding for the androgen receptor (AR). PolyQ expansions cause at least eight other neurological disorders, which are collectively known as polyQ diseases. SBMA is unique in the family of polyQ diseases in that the disease manifests fully in male individuals only. The sex specificity of SBMA is the result of the interaction between mutant AR and its natural ligand, testosterone. Here, we will discuss emerging therapeutic perspectives for SBMA in light of recent findings regarding disease pathogenesis.
Inducers of mitochondrial biogenesis are widely under investigation for use in a novel therapeutic approach in neurodegenerative disorders. The ability of Gemfibrozil, a fibrate, is investigated for the first time to modulate mitochondrial pro-survival factors involved in the mitochondrial biogenesis signaling pathway, including peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor coactivator-1 (PGC-1), nuclear respiratory factor (NRF-1), and mitochondrial transcription factor A (TFAM) in the brain. Gemfibozil is clinically administered to control hyperlipidemia. It secondarily prevents cardiovascular events such as cardiac arrest in susceptible patients. In this study, pretreatment of animals with gemfibrozil prior to ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) resulted in a sexually dimorphic outcome. While the expression of NRF-1 and TFAM were induced in gemfibrozil-pretreated met-estrous females, they were suppressed in males. Gemfibrozil also proved to be neuroprotective in met-estrous females, as it inhibited caspase-dependent apoptosis while in males it led to hippocampal neurodegeneration via activation of both the caspase-dependent and caspase-independent apoptosis. In the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPKs) pathway, gemfibrozil pretreatment induced the expression of extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERK1/2) in met-estrous females and reduced it in males. These findings correlatively point to the sexual-dimorphic effects of gemfibrozil in global cerebral I/R context by affecting important factors involved in the mitochondrial biogenesis, MAPKs, and apoptotic cell death pathways.

Leptin, a hormone that regulates appetite and energy expenditure, is increased in obese individuals, although these individuals often exhibit leptin resistance. Obesity is characterized by sleep/wake disturbances, such as excessive daytime sleepiness, increased REM sleep, increased nighttime arousals, and decreased percentage of total sleep time. Several studies have shown that short sleep duration is highly correlated with decreased leptin levels in both animal and human models. Arousal and rapid eye movement (REM) sleep are regulated by the cholinergic arm of the reticular activating system, the pedunculopontine nucleus (PPN). The goal of this project was to determine the role of leptin in the PPN, and thus in obesity-related sleep disorders. Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings were conducted on PPN neurons in 9- to 17-day-old rat brainstem slices. Leptin decreased action potential (AP) amplitude, AP frequency, and h-current (I(H)). These findings suggest that leptin causes a blockade of Na channels. Therefore, we conducted an experiment to test the effects of leptin on Na conductance. To determine the average voltage dependence of this conductance, results from each cell were equally weighted by expressing conductance as a fraction of the maximum conductance in each cell. I Na amplitude was decreased in a dose-dependent manner, suggesting a direct effect of leptin on these channels. The average decrease in Na conductance by leptin was ~40 %. We hypothesize that leptin normally decreases activity in the PPN by reducing I(H) and I(Na) currents, and that in states of leptin dysregulation (i.e., leptin resistance) this effect may be blunted, therefore causing increased arousal and REM sleep drive, and ultimately leading to sleep-related disorders.
A low-affinity Ca/H-antiport was described in the membrane of mammalian brain synaptic vesicles. Electrophysiological studies showed that this antiport contributes to the extreme brevity of excitation-release coupling in rapid synapses. Synaptotagmin-1, a vesicular protein interacting with membranes upon low-affinity Ca-binding, plays a major role in excitation-release coupling, by synchronizing calcium entry with fast neurotransmitter release. Here, we report that synaptotagmin-1 is necessary for expression of the vesicular Ca/H-antiport. We measured Ca/H-antiport activity in vesicles and granules of pheochromocytoma PC12 cells by three methods: (i) Ca-induced dissipation of the vesicular H-gradient; (ii) bafilomycin-sensitive calcium accumulation and (iii) pH-jump-induced calcium accumulation. The results were congruent and highly significant: Ca/H-antiport activity is detectable only in acidic organelles expressing functional synaptotagmin-1. In contrast, synaptotagmin-1-deficient cells--and cells where transgenically encoded synaptotagmin-1 was acutely photo-inactivated--were devoid of any Ca/H-antiport activity. Therefore, in addition to its previously described functions, synaptotagmin-1 is involved in a rapid vesicular Ca sequestration through a Ca/H antiport.
ATP-gated P2X3 receptors of sensory ganglion neurons are important transducers of painful stimuli and are modulated by extracellular algogenic substances, via changes in the receptor phosphorylation state. The present study investigated the role of calcium/calmodulin-dependent serine protein kinase (CASK) in interacting and controlling P2X3 receptor expression and function in mouse trigeminal ganglia. Most ganglion neurons in situ or in culture co-expressed P2X3 and CASK. CASK was immunoprecipitated with P2X3 receptors from trigeminal ganglia and from P2X3/CASK-cotransfected human embryonic kidney (HEK) cells. Recombinant P2X3/CASK expression in HEK cells increased serine phosphorylation of P2X3 receptors, typically associated with receptor upregulation. CASK deletion mutants also enhanced P2X3 subunit expression. After silencing CASK, cell surface P2X3 receptor expression was decreased, which is consistent with depressed P2X3 currents. The reduction in P2X3 expression levels was reversed by the proteasomal inhibitor MG-132. Moreover, neuronal CASK/P2X3 interaction was up-regulated by nerve growth factor (NGF) signaling and down-regulated by P2X3 agonist-induced desensitization. These data suggest a novel interaction between CASK and P2X3 receptors with positive outcome for receptor stability and function. As CASK-mediated control of P2X3 receptors was dependent on the receptor activation state, CASK represents an intracellular gateway to regulate purinergic nociceptive signaling.
Reprogramming of toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) by brief ischemia or lipopolysacharide (LPS) contributes to superintending tolerance against destructive ischemia in brain. However, beneficial roles of TLR4 signaling in ischemic retina are not well known. This study demonstrated that preconditioning with LPS 48h prior to the retinal ischemia prevents the cellular damage in morphology with hematoxylin and eosin (H&amp;E) staining and functions of retina with electroretinogram (ERG), while post-ischemia treatment deteriorated it. The preventive effects of LPS preconditioning showed the cell type-specificity of retinal cells. There was complete rescue of ganglion cells, partial rescue of bipolar and photoreceptor cells or no rescue of amacrine cells, respectively. LPS treatment caused the proliferation and migration of retinal microglia and its preconditioning prevented the ischemia-induced microglial activation. Preventive actions from cell damages following LPS preconditioning prior to retinal ischemia were abolished in TLR4 knock-out mice, and by pre-treatments with anti-TLR4 antibody or minocycline, a microglia inhibitor, which themselves had no effects on the retinal ischemia-induced damages or microglia activation. Thus, this study revealed that TLR4 mediates the LPS preconditioning-induced preventive effects through microglial activation in the retinal ischemia model.
Recent developments in fluorescence far-field microscopy such as STED microscopy have accomplished observation of the living cell with a spatial resolution far below the diffraction limit. Here, we briefly review the current approaches to super-resolution optical microscopy and present the implementation of STED microscopy for novel insights into live cell mechanisms, with a focus on neurobiology and plasma membrane dynamics.
Despite intensive studies of the secretase-mediated processing of the amyloid precursor protein (APP) to form the amyloid -peptide (A), in relation to Alzheimer's disease (AD), no new therapeutic agents have reached the clinics based on reducing A levels through the use of secretase inhibitors or immunotherapy. Furthermore, the normal neuronal functions of APP and its various metabolites still remain under-investigated and unclear. Here, we highlight emerging areas of APP function that may provide new insights into synaptic development, cognition, and gene regulation. By modulating expression levels of endogenous APP in primary cortical neurons, the frequency and amplitude of calcium oscillations is modified, implying a key role for APP in maintaining neuronal calcium homeostasis essential for synaptic transmission. Disruption of this homeostatic mechanism predisposes to aging and AD. Synaptic spine loss is a feature of neurogeneration resulting in learning and memory deficits, and emerging evidence indicates a role for APP, probably mediated via one or more of its metabolites, in spine structure and functions. The intracellular domain of APP (AICD) has also emerged as a key epigenetic regulator of gene expression controlling a diverse range of genes, including APP itself, the amyloid-degrading enzyme neprilysin, and aquaporin-1. A fuller understanding of the physiological and pathological actions of APP and its metabolic network could provide new opportunities for therapeutic intervention in AD.
TAR DNA-binding protein 43 (TDP-43) has emerged as an important contributor to amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and frontotemporal lobar degeneration. To understand the physiological roles of TDP-43 in the complex translational regulation mechanisms, we exposed cultured cells to oxidative stress induced by sodium arsenite (ARS) for different periods of time, leading to non-lethal or sublethal injury. Polysome profile analysis revealed that ARS-induced stress caused the association of TDP-43 with stalled ribosomes via binding to mRNA, which was not found under the steady-state condition. When the cells were exposed to short-term/non-lethal stress, TDP-43 associating with ribosomes localized to stress granules (SGs); this association was transient because it was immediately dissolved by the removal of the stress. In contrast, when the cells were exposed to long-term/sublethal stress, TDP-43 was excluded from SGs and shifted to the heavy fractions independent of any binding to mRNA. In these severely stressed cells, biochemical alterations of TDP-43, such as increased insolubility and disulfide bond formation, were irreversible. TDP-43 was finally phosphorylated via the ARS-induced c-jun N-terminal kinase pathway. In TDP-43-silenced cells, stalled mRNA and poly (A)(+) RNA stability was disturbed and cytotoxicity increased under sublethal stress. Thus, TDP-43 associates with stalled ribosomes and contributes to cell survival during cellular stress.
Delta-like 1 homologue (DLK1), also known as preadipocyte factor-1, fetal antigen 1 or pG2, is a transmembrane protein belonging to the epidermal growth factor-like superfamily. The protein becomes soluble and biologically active after cleavage of the tumour necrosis factor--converting enzyme. DLK1 is involved in the differentiation of several cell types, including adipocytes. Lack of the dlk1 gene in mice results in adiposity and a polymorphism within the gene encoding DLK1 has been associated with obesity. The dlk1 gene is expressed in restricted areas of the central nervous system with an enrichment of cell bodies expressing DLK1 mRNA in the hypothalamus. Goat and rabbit antisera to DLK1 were used to study the cellular localisation and chemical identity of DLK1-immunoreactive neuronal cell bodies in rat hypothalamus. DLK1 immunoreactivity was demonstrated in the cell bodies of the suprachiasmatic, supraoptic, paraventricular, arcuate nuclei and in the lateral hypothalamus. At the subcellular level, DLK1 immunoreactivity was observed in the cell soma and dendrites, although not in axonal fibres or nerve terminals. Double-labelling of sections from the lateral hypothalamic/perifornical area of colchicine-treated rats (a treatment that increases the content of immunoreactive material in the cell soma) showed that DLK1 was present in the virually all orexin- and dynorphin-containing neurones. By contrast, DLK1 was not demonstrated in any melanin-concentrating hormone or cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript-containing neurones of the lateral hypothalamic/perifornical area. The presence of DLK1 in a population of lateral hypothalamic neurones suggests a functional role for DLK1 in orexin/hypocretin/dynorphin neurones.


Pontocerebellar hypoplasia (PCH) type 1 is characterized by the co-occurrence of spinal anterior horn involvement and hypoplasia of the cerebellum and pons. EXOSC3 has been recently defined as a major cause of PCH type 1. Three different phenotypes showing variable severity have been reported. We identified a homozygous mutation [c.395A &gt; C/p.D132A] in EXOSC3 in four patients with muscle hypotonia, developmental delay, spinal anterior horn involvement, and prolonged survival, consistent with the &quot;mild PCH1 phenotype&quot;. Interestingly, isolated cerebellar hypoplasia limited to the hemispheres or involving both hemispheres and vermis was the main neuroradiologic finding, whereas the pontine volume was in the normal range for age. These findings strongly suggest that analysis of the EXOSC3 gene should be recommended also in patients with spinal anterior horn involvement and isolated cerebellar hypoplasia.
The goal of this study is to define the clinical features, pathogenesis and key investigation findings of fasciculation anxiety syndrome in clinicians (FASICS). Twenty consecutive clinicians presenting with fasciculations were prospectively assessed with serial clinical and neurophysiological evaluations. Clinicians with fasciculations formed three groups: 70 % of clinicians experienced symptomatic fasciculations and anxiety about the possibility of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), termed FASICS; a further 15 % of clinicians experienced fasciculations associated with cramps and consistent with cramp-fasciculation syndrome (CFS). The final 15 % of clinicians presented with fasciculations associated with sensory symptoms or muscle weakness and were diagnosed with neuropathy (10 %) and ALS (5 %). In FASICS, fasciculations most often involved the lower limbs, without evidence of muscle weakness on clinical examination. Exercise, stress, fatigue and caffeine consumption were identified as common exacerbating factors. Neurophysiological studies confirmed normal nerve conduction studies and the presence of simple fasciculations, without acute denervation or neurogenic motor unit changes. Antibodies to voltage-gated potassium channels were assayed in each clinician and were not detected, and systemic autoantibodies were detected only in clinicians with features of CFS. FASICS is a disorder common among physicians presenting for evaluation of fasciculations. The present study delineates the diagnostic features of FASICS and contrasts the clinical presentation with other causes of fasciculations in clinicians.
To study prevalence, specific patterns and response to treatment of tremor in dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), in comparison with other tremulous disorders prevalence, qualitative and quantitative features of tremor were studied in an incident cohort of 67 dopaminergic treatment naive DLB, 111 Parkinson's Disease (PD) and 34 Essential Tremor (ET) patients. Tremulous DLB patients (tDLB) were compared with tremulous PD (tPD) and ET patients and followed for 2 years. Double blind placebo-controlled acute drug challenge with L-Dopa and alcohol was performed in all ET, 24 tDLB and 27 tPD. Effects of dopaminergic chronic treatment in all tDLB and tPD patients and primidone in 8 tDLB were also assessed. Tremor occurred in 44.76 % of DLB patients. The tDLB patients presented a complex pattern of mixed tremors, characterized by rest and postural/action tremor, including walking tremor and standing overflow in 50 % tDLB. Standing tremor with overflow was characteristic of tDLB (p &lt; 0.001). Head tremor was more frequent in tDLB than tPD and ET (p = 0.001). The tDLB tremors were reduced by acute and chronic dopaminergic treatments (p &lt; 0.01) but not by alcohol or primidone. Tremor occurs commonly in DLB patients with a complex mixed tremor pattern which shows a significant response to acute and chronic dopaminergic treatments. Recognizing that there is a clinical category of tremulous DLB may help the differential diagnosis of tremors.
Studies of the relationship between Alzheimer's disease (AD) and single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) T/C in intron 2 of the cholesterol-24S-hydroxylase gene (CYP46A1) have reported inconsistent results. To confirm the association between the CYP46A1 T/C polymorphism and AD risk, a meta-analysis containing 4,875 AD cases and 4,874 controls from 21 case-control studies was performed. There were 16 studies involving Europeans, four studies with Asians and one study with Africans. The combined results of overall analysis showed that the CYP46A1 T/C polymorphism increased the risk of AD significantly in recessive model [CC versus CT + TT, odds ratio (OR) = 1.20, 95 % confidence interval (CI) = 1.04-1.38, p = 0.01]. On subgroup analysis by ethnicity, similarly significant differences in recessive model were also found in Europeans. Another analysis of the synergistic effect of the CYP46A1 T/C polymorphism and the 4 allele of the apolipoprotein E gene (APOE 4) was performed in eight studies with available stratified information. The results revealed that the presence of APOE 4 allele could strengthen the effect of CC genotype on AD risk, and the reverse was also true. In conclusion, our meta-analysis has successfully proved that CC genotype of the CYP46A1 T/C polymorphism could increase the risk of AD, and this effect would be weakened in APOE 4 non-carriers and strengthened in APOE 4 carriers.
In multiple sclerosis (MS), physical and cognitive deficits not only reflect structural damage, but also functional imbalance in and between brain networks. Resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) allows one to investigate intrinsic, synchronized brain activity across the whole brain, and to measure the degree of functional correlation between different cortical regions. This review describes the major findings obtained in MS patients at different clinical stages using resting state fMRI, and discusses how the use of fMRI techniques may improve our ability to identify novel biomarkers useful in the context of the diagnostic work-up, establishing prognosis and monitoring treatment.







Epigenetic alterations alone or in combination with genetic mechanisms play a key role in brain tumorigenesis. Glioblastoma is one of the most common, lethal and poor clinical outcome primary brain tumors with extraordinarily miscellaneous epigenetic alterations profile. The aim of this study was to investigate new potential prognostic epigenetic markers such as AREG, HOXA11, hMLH1, NDRG2, NTPX2 and Tes genes promoter methylation, frequency and value for patients outcome. We examined the promoter methylation status using methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction in 100 glioblastoma tissue samples. The value for clinical outcome was calculated using Kaplan-Meier estimation with log-rank test. DNA promoter methylation was frequent event appearing more than 45 % for gene. AREG and HOXA11 methylation status was significantly associated with patient age. HOXA11 showed the tendency to be associated with patient outcome in glioblastomas. AREG gene promoter methylation showed significant correlation with poor patient outcome. AREG methylation remained significantly associated with patient survival in a Cox multivariate model including MGMT promoter methylation status. This study of new epigenetic targets has shown considerably high level of analyzed genes promoter methylation variability in glioblastoma tissue. AREG gene might be valuable marker for glioblastoma patient survival prognosis, however further analysis is needed to clarify the independence and appropriateness of the marker.
Correlations among neurons are supposed to play an important role in computation and information coding in the nervous system. Empirically, functional interactions between neurons are most commonly assessed by cross-correlation functions. Recent studies have suggested that pairwise correlations may indeed be sufficient to capture most of the information present in neural interactions. Many applications of correlation functions, however, implicitly tend to assume that the underlying processes are stationary. This assumption will usually fail for real neurons recorded in vivo since their activity during behavioral tasks is heavily influenced by stimulus-, movement-, or cognition-related processes as well as by more general processes like slow oscillations or changes in state of alertness. To address the problem of nonstationarity, we introduce a method for assessing stationarity empirically and then &quot;slicing&quot; spike trains into stationary segments according to the statistical definition of weak-sense stationarity. We examine pairwise Pearson cross-correlations (PCCs) under both stationary and nonstationary conditions and identify another source of covariance that can be differentiated from the covariance of the spike times and emerges as a consequence of residual nonstationarities after the slicing process: the covariance of the firing rates defined on each segment. Based on this, a correction of the PCC is introduced that accounts for the effect of segmentation. We probe these methods both on simulated data sets and on in vivo recordings from the prefrontal cortex of behaving rats. Rather than for removing nonstationarities, the present method may also be used for detecting significant events in spike trains.
Electrical stimulation has been delivered to the basal ganglia (BG) to treat intractable symptoms of a variety of clinical disorders. However, it is still unknown how such treatments improve behavioral symptoms. A difficulty of this problem is that artificial signals created by electrical stimulation interact with intrinsic signals before influencing behavior, thereby making it important to understand how such interactions between artificial and intrinsic signals occur. We addressed this issue by analyzing the effects of electrical stimulation under the following two behavioral conditions that induce different states of intrinsic signals: 1) subjects behave spontaneously without task demands; and 2) subjects perform a behavioral paradigm purposefully. We analyzed saccadic eye movements in monkeys while delivering microstimulation to the head and body of the caudate nucleus, a major input stage of the oculomotor BG. When monkeys generated spontaneous saccades, caudate microstimulation biased saccade vector endpoints toward the contralateral direction of stimulation sites. However, when caudate microstimulation was delivered during a purposive prosaccade (look toward a visual stimulus) or an antisaccade (look away from a stimulus) paradigm, it created overall ipsilateral biases by suppressing contralateral saccades more strongly than ipsilateral saccades. These results suggest that the impact of BG electrical stimulation changes dynamically depending on the state of intrinsic signals that vary under a variety of behavioral demands in everyday life.
Human volitional actions are preceded by preparatory processes, a critical mental process of cognitive control for future behavior. Volitional action preparation is regulated by large-scale neural circuits including the cerebral cortex and the basal ganglia. Because volitional action preparation is a covert process, the network dynamics of such neural circuits have been examined by neuroimaging and recording event-related potentials. Here, we examined whether such covert processes can be measured by the overt responses of fixational saccades (including microsaccades), the largest miniature eye movements that occur during eye fixation. We analyzed fixational saccades while adult humans maintained fixation on a central visual stimulus as they prepared to generate a volitional saccade in response to peripheral stimulus appearance. We used the antisaccade paradigm, in which subjects generate a saccade toward the opposite direction of a peripheral stimulus. Appropriate antisaccade performance requires the following two aspects of volitional control: 1) facilitation of saccades away from the stimulus and 2) suppression of inappropriate saccades toward the stimulus. We found that fixational saccades that occurred before stimulus appearance reflected the dual preparatory states of saccade facilitation and suppression and correlated with behavioral outcome (i.e., whether subjects succeeded or failed to cancel inappropriate saccades toward the stimulus). Moreover, fixational saccades explained a large proportion of individual differences in behavioral performance (poor/excellent) across subjects. These results suggest that fixational saccades predict the outcome of future volitional actions and may be used as a potential biomarker to detect people with difficulties in volitional action preparation.
The insular cortex (IC) is widely believed to be an important forebrain structure involved in cognitive and sensory processes such as memory and pain. However, little work has been performed at the cellular level to investigate the synaptic basis of IC-related brain functions. To bridge the gap, the present study was designed to characterize the basic synaptic mechanisms for insular long-term potentiation (LTP). Using a 64-channel recording system, we found that an enduring form of late-phase LTP (L-LTP) could be reliably recorded for at least 3 h in different layers of IC slices after theta burst stimulation. The induction of insular LTP is protein synthesis dependent and requires activation of both GluN2A and GluN2B subunits of the NMDA receptor, L-type voltage-gated calcium channels, and metabotropic glutamate receptor 1. The paired-pulse facilitation ratio was unaffected by insular L-LTP induction, and expression of insular L-LTP required the recruitment of postsynaptic calcium-permeable AMPA receptors. Our results provide the first in vitro report of long-term multichannel recordings of L-LTP in the IC in adult mice and suggest its potential important roles in insula-related memory and chronic pain.
Recent advances in fluorescent confocal microscopy and voltage-sensitive and Ca(2+) dyes have vastly improved our ability to image neuronal circuits. However, existing confocal systems are not fast enough or too noisy for many live-cell functional imaging studies. Here, we describe and demonstrate the function of a novel, nonscanning confocal microscopy module. The optics, which are designed to fit the standard camera port of the Olympus BX51WI epifluorescent microscope, achieve a high signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) at high temporal resolution, making this configuration ideal for functional imaging of neuronal activities such as the voltage-sensitive dye (VSD) imaging. The optics employ fixed 100-  100-pinhole arrays at the back focal plane (optical conjugation plane), above the tube lens of a usual upright microscope. The excitation light travels through these pinholes, and the fluorescence signal, emitted from subject, passes through corresponding pinholes before exciting the photodiodes of the imager: a 100-  100-pixel metal-oxide semiconductor (MOS)-type pixel imager with each pixel corresponding to a single 100-  100-m photodiode. This design eliminated the need for a scanning device; therefore, acquisition rate of the imager (maximum rate of 10 kHz) is the only factor limiting acquisition speed. We tested the application of the system for VSD and Ca(2+) imaging of evoked neuronal responses on electrical stimuli in rat hippocampal slices. The results indicate that, at least for these applications, the new microscope maintains a high SNR at image acquisition rates of 0.3 ms per frame.
Substance P is endogenously released within the locomotor network of the adult lamprey, accelerates the burst frequency of fictive locomotion, and reduces the reciprocal inhibition. Previous studies have shown that dopamine, serotonin, and GABA regulate calcium channels, which control neurotransmitter release, action potential duration, and slow afterhyperpolarization (sAHP). Here we examine the effect of substance P on calcium channels in motoneurons and commissural interneurons using whole cell patch clamp in the lamprey spinal cord. This study analyzed the effects of substance P on calcium currents activated in voltage clamp. We examined the calcium-dependent sAHP in current clamp, to determine the involvement of three calcium channel subtypes modulated by substance P. The effects of substance P on membrane potential and during N-methyl-d-aspartic acid (NMDA) induced oscillations were also analyzed. Depolarizing voltage steps induced inward calcium currents. Substance P reduced the currents carried by calcium by 61% in commissural interneurons and by 31% in motoneurons. Using specific calcium channel antagonists, we show that substance P reduces the sAHP primarily by inhibiting N-type (Ca(V)2.2) channels. Substance P depolarized both motoneurons and commissural interneurons, and we present evidence that this occurs due to an increased input resistance. We also explored the effects of substance P on NMDA-induced oscillations in tetrodotoxin and found it caused a frequency increase. Thus the reduction of calcium entry by substance P and the accompanying decrease of the sAHP amplitude, combined with substance P potentiation of currents activated by NMDA, may both contribute to the increase in fictive locomotion frequency.
Although piano playing is a highly skilled task, basic features of motor pattern generation may be shared across tasks involving fine movements, such as handling coins, fingering food, or using a touch screen. The scripted and sequential nature of piano playing offered the opportunity to quantify the neuromuscular basis of coarticulation, i.e., the manner in which the muscle activation for one sequential element is altered to facilitate production of the preceding and subsequent elements. Ten pianists were asked to play selected pieces with the right hand at a uniform tempo. Key-press times were recorded along with the electromyographic (EMG) activity from seven channels: thumb flexor and abductor muscles, a flexor for each finger, and the four-finger extensor muscle. For the thumb and index finger, principal components of EMG waveforms revealed highly consistent variations in the shape of the flexor bursts, depending on the type of sequence in which a particular central key press was embedded. For all digits, the duration of the central EMG burst scaled, along with slight variations across subjects in the duration of the interkeystroke intervals. Even within a narrow time frame (about 100 ms) centered on the central EMG burst, the exact balance of EMG amplitudes across multiple muscles depended on the nature of the preceding and subsequent key presses. This fails to support the idea of fixed burst patterns executed in sequential phases and instead provides evidence for neuromuscular coarticulation throughout the time course of a hand movement sequence.
Sensory systems need to tease out stimulation-evoked activity against a noisy background. In the olfactory system, the odor response profile of an olfactory sensory neuron (OSN) is dependent on the type of odorant receptor it expresses. OSNs also exhibit spontaneous activity, which plays a role in establishing proper synaptic connections and may also increase the sensitivity of the cells. However, where the spontaneous activity originates and whether it informs sensory-evoked activity remain unclear. We addressed these questions by examining patch-clamp recordings of genetically labeled mouse OSNs with defined odorant receptors in intact olfactory epithelia. We show that OSNs expressing different odorant receptors had significantly different rates of basal activity. Additionally, OSNs expressing an inactive mutant I7 receptor completely lacked spontaneous activity, despite being able to fire action potentials in response to current injection. This finding strongly suggests that the spontaneous firing of an OSN originates from the spontaneous activation of its G protein-coupled odorant receptor. Moreover, OSNs expressing the same receptor displayed considerable variation in their spontaneous activity, and the variation was broadened upon odor stimulation. Interestingly, there is no significant correlation between the spontaneous and sensory-evoked activity in these neurons. This study reveals that the odorant receptor type determines the spontaneous firing rate of OSNs, but the basal activity does not correlate with the activity induced by near-saturated odor stimulation. The implications of these findings on olfactory information processing are discussed.
Appropriate control of muscle contraction requires integration of command signals with sensory feedback. Sensorimotor integration is often studied under conditions in which muscle force is controlled with visual feedback. While it is known that alteration of visual feedback can influence task performance, the underlying changes in neural drive to the muscles are not well understood. In this study, we characterize the frequency content of force fluctuations and neural drive when production of muscle force is target guided versus self guided. In the self-guided condition, subjects performed isometric contractions of the first dorsal interosseous (FDI) muscle while slowly and randomly varying their force level. Subjects received visual feedback of their own force in order to keep contractions between 6% and 10% of maximum voluntary contraction (MVC). In the target-guided condition, subjects used a display of their previously generated force as a target to track over time. During target tracking, force tremor increased significantly in the 3-5 and 7-9 Hz ranges, compared with self-guided contractions. The underlying changes in neural drive were assessed by coherence analysis of FDI motor unit activity. During target-guided force production, pairs of simultaneously recorded motor units showed less coherent activity in the 3-5 Hz frequency range but greater coherence in the 7-9 Hz range than in the self-guided contractions. These results show that the frequency content of common synaptic input to motoneurons is altered when force production is visually guided. We propose that a change in stretch-reflex gain could provide a potential mechanism for the observed changes in force tremor and motor unit coherence.
Perception of relevant visual object features can be modulated by the preparation of an action toward it (&quot;action-modulated perception&quot;). For instance, the perception of the orientation of a book can be enhanced when preparing to grasp it (but not when pointing to it). However, the underlying neuronal mechanisms are poorly understood. We argue that brain areas controlling arm movements are involved in establishing this effect through top-down feedback to early visual areas, similar to the neuronal mechanisms linking visual attention and eye movements. To investigate this involvement, we applied transcranial magnetic stimulation to a grasping motor area, the left anterior intraparietal sulcus (aIPS), during grasping or pointing preparation. Concurrently, an orientation change detection task was performed. As a control area, the vertex was stimulated. We found that stimulation of aIPS selectively modulates orientation sensitivity during action preparation compared with control stimulation (vertex), negating the increased orientation sensitivity with grasping preparation over pointing preparation. We argue that aIPS is a critical part of the mechanism underlying perceptual modulations during action preparation. The present results and recent literature suggest that this action-modulated perception for hand movements is implemented through a cortical feedback connection between aIPS and early visual areas.
Two-Photon Processor (TPP) is a versatile, ready-to-use, and freely available software package in MATLAB to process data from in vivo two-photon calcium imaging. TPP includes routines to search for cell bodies in full-frame (Search for Neural Cells Accelerated; SeNeCA) and line-scan acquisition, routines for calcium signal calculations, filtering, spike-mining, and routines to construct parametric fields. Searching for somata in artificial in vivo data, our algorithm achieved better performance than human annotators. SeNeCA copes well with uneven background brightness and in-plane motion artifacts, the major problems in simple segmentation methods. In the fast mode, artificial in vivo images with a resolution of 256  256 pixels containing  100 neurons can be processed at a rate up to 175 frames per second (tested on Intel i7, 8 threads, magnetic hard disk drive). This speed of a segmentation algorithm could bring new possibilities into the field of in vivo optophysiology. With such a short latency (down to 5-6 ms on an ordinary personal computer) and using some contemporary optogenetic tools, it will allow experiments in which a control program can continuously evaluate the occurrence of a particular spatial pattern of activity (a possible correlate of memory or cognition) and subsequently inhibit/stimulate the entire area of the circuit or inhibit/stimulate a different part of the neuronal system. TPP will be freely available on our public web site. Similar all-in-one and freely available software has not yet been published.
Several studies have shown that the transmission of afferent inputs from the periphery to the somatosensory cortex is attenuated during the preparation of voluntary movements. In the present study, we tested whether sensory attenuation is also observed during the preparation of a voluntary step. It would appear dysfunctional to suppress somatosensory information, which is considered to be of the utmost importance for gait preparation. In this context, we predict that the somatosensory information is facilitated during gait preparation. To test this prediction, we recorded cortical somatosensory potentials (SEPs) evoked by bilateral lower limb vibration (i.e., proprioceptive inputs) during the preparation phase of a voluntary right-foot stepping movement (i.e., stepping condition). The subjects were also asked to remain still during and after the vibration as a control condition (i.e., static condition). The amplitude and timing of the early arrival of afferent inflow to the somatosensory cortices (i.e., P1-N1) were not significantly different between the static and stepping conditions. However, a large sustained negativity (i.e., late SEP) developed after the P1-N1 component, which was larger when subjects were preparing a step compared with standing. To determine whether this facilitation of proprioceptive inputs was related to gravitational equilibrium constraints, we performed the same experiment in microgravity. In the absence of equilibrium constraints, both the P1-N1 and late SEPs did not significantly differ between the static and stepping conditions. These observations provide neurophysiological evidence that the brain exerts a dynamic control over the transmission of the afferent signal according to their current relevance during movement preparation.
We investigate adaptation under a reaching task with an acceleration-based force field perturbation designed to alter the nominal straight hand trajectory in a potentially benign manner: pushing the hand off course in one direction before subsequently restoring towards the target. In this particular task, an explicit strategy to reduce motor effort requires a distinct deviation from the nominal rectilinear hand trajectory. Rather, our results display a clear directional preference during learning, as subjects adapted perturbed curved trajectories towards their initial baselines. We model this behavior using the framework of stochastic optimal control theory and an objective function that trades off the discordant requirements of 1) target accuracy, 2) motor effort, and 3) kinematic invariance. Our work addresses the underlying objective of a reaching movement, and we suggest that robustness, particularly against internal model uncertainly, is as essential to the reaching task as terminal accuracy and energy efficiency.
A fundamental question in neuroscience is how neurons perform precise operations despite inherent variability. This question also applies to neuromorphic engineering, where low-power microchips emulate the brain using large populations of diverse silicon neurons. Biological neurons in the auditory pathway display precise spike timing, critical for sound localization and interpretation of complex waveforms such as speech, even though they are a heterogeneous population. Silicon neurons are also heterogeneous, due to a key design constraint in neuromorphic engineering: smaller transistors offer lower power consumption and more neurons per unit area of silicon, but also more variability between transistors and thus between silicon neurons. Utilizing this variability in a neuromorphic model of the auditory brain stem with 1,080 silicon neurons, we found that a low-voltage-activated potassium conductance (g(KL)) enables precise spike timing via two mechanisms: statically reducing the resting membrane time constant and dynamically suppressing late synaptic inputs. The relative contribution of these two mechanisms is unknown because blocking g(KL) in vitro eliminates dynamic adaptation but also lengthens the membrane time constant. We replaced g(KL) with a static leak in silico to recover the short membrane time constant and found that silicon neurons could mimic the spike-time precision of their biological counterparts, but only over a narrow range of stimulus intensities and biophysical parameters. The dynamics of g(KL) were required for precise spike timing robust to stimulus variation across a heterogeneous population of silicon neurons, thus explaining how neural and neuromorphic systems may perform precise operations despite inherent variability.
Dopamine neurons of the ventral tegmental area (VTA) signal the occurrence of a reward-predicting conditioned stimulus (CS) with a subsecond duration increase in post-CS firing rate. Important theories about reward-prediction error and reward expectancy have been informed by the substantial number of studies that have examined post-CS phasic VTA neuron activity. On the other hand, the role of VTA neurons in anticipation of a reward-predicting CS and analysis of prestimulus spike rate rarely has been studied. We recorded from the VTA in rats during the 3-choice reaction time task, which has a fixed-duration prestimulus period and a difficult-to-detect stimulus. Use of a stimulus that was difficult to detect led to behavioral errors, which allowed us to compare VTA activity between trials with correct and incorrect stimulus-guided choices. We found a sustained increase in firing rate of both putative dopamine and GABA neurons during the pre-CS period of correct and incorrect trials. The poststimulus phasic response, however, was absent on incorrect trials, suggesting that the stimulus-evoked phasic response of dopamine neurons may relate to stimulus detection. The prestimulus activation of VTA neurons may modulate cortical systems that represent internal states of stimulus expectation and provide a mechanism for dopamine neurotransmission to influence preparatory attention to an expected stimulus.
Anterior communicating artery aneurysm rarely presents with symptoms of compression of anterior visual pathways. We report a case of 65 years old man, who had complete loss of vision in right eye and temporal hemianopsia in left eye due to giant anterior communicating artery aneurysm.




An intradural somatic-to-autonomic anastomosis, or Xiao procedure, has been described to create a &quot;skin-CNS-bladder&quot; reflex that improves bladder and bowel function in patients with neurogenic bladder and bowel dysfunction. The authors present their experience with a 10-year-old boy with chronic neurogenic bladder and bowel dysfunction related to spinal cord injury who underwent the Xiao procedure. After undergoing a left L-5 ventral root to left S2-3 intradural anastomosis, the patient reported that his bladder and bowel dysfunction improved between 6 and 12 months. Two years after the procedure, however, he reported that there was no change in his bladder or bowel dysfunction as compared with his condition prior to the procedure. Frequent, systematic multidisciplinary evaluations produced conflicting data. Electrophysiological and histological evaluation of the previously performed anastomosis during surgical reexploration 3 years after the Xiao procedure revealed that the anastomosis was in anatomical continuity but neuroma formation had prevented reinnervation. Nerve action potentials were not demonstrable across the anastomosis, and stimulation of the nerve above and below the anastomosis created no bladder or perineal contractions. This is the first clinical report on the outcome of the Xiao procedure in a child with spinal cord injury outside of China. It is impossible to draw broad conclusions about the efficacy of the procedure based on a single patient with no demonstrable benefit. However, future studies should carefully interpret transient improvements in bladder function, urodynamic findings, and the patient's ability to void in response to scratching after the Xiao procedure. The authors' experience with the featured patient, in whom reinnervation could not be demonstrated, suggests that such changes could be related to factors other than the establishment of a skin-CNS-bladder reflex as a result of a somatic-to-autonomic anastomosis.
Although the consequences of traumatic brain injury (TBI) and its treatment have been improved, there is still a substantial lack of understanding the mechanisms. Numerical simulation of the impact can throw further lights on site and mechanism of action. A finite element model of the human head and brain tissue was used to simulate TBI. The consequences of gradually increased kinetic energy transfer was analyzed by evaluating the impact intracranial pressure (ICP), strain level, and their potential influences on binding forces in folded protein structures. The gradually increased kinetic energy was found to have the potential to break apart bonds of Van der Waals in all impacts and hydrogen bonds at simulated impacts from 6m/s and higher, thereby superseding the energy in folded protein structures. Further, impacts below 6m/s showed none or very slight increase in impact ICP and strain levels, whereas impacts of 6m/s or higher showed a gradual increase of the impact ICP and strain levels reaching over 1000KPa and over 30%, respectively. The present simulation study shows that the free kinetic energy transfer, impact ICP, and strain levels all have the potential to initiate cytotoxic brain tissue edema by unfolding protein structures. The definition of mild, moderate, and severe TBI should thus be looked upon as the same condition and separated only by a gradual severity of impact.



The ovarian cycle affects susceptibility to behavioral and neurologic conditions. The molecular mechanisms underlying these changes are poorly understood. Deficits in cyclical fluctuations in steroid hormones and receptor plasticity play a central role in physiologic and pathophysiologic menstrual conditions. It has been suggested that synaptic GABA(A) receptors mediate phasic inhibition in the hippocampus and extrasynaptic receptors mediate tonic inhibition in the dentate gyrus. Here we report a novel role of extrasynaptic -containing GABA(A) receptors as crucial mediators of the estrous cycle-related changes in neuronal excitability in mice, with hippocampus subfield specificity. In molecular and immunofluorescence studies, a significant increase occurred in -subunit, but not 4- and 2-subunits, in the dentate gyrus during diestrus. However, -subunit upregulation was not evident in the CA1 region. The -subunit expression was undiminished by age and ovariectomy and in mice lacking progesterone receptors, but it was significantly reduced by finasteride, a neurosteroid synthesis inhibitor. Electrophysiologic studies confirmed greater potentiation of GABA currents by progesterone-derived neurosteroid allopregnanolone in dissociated dentate gyrus granule cells in diestrus than in CA1 pyramidal cells. The baseline conductance and allopregnanolone potentiation of tonic currents in dentate granule cells from hippocampal slices were higher than in CA1 pyramidal cells. In behavioral studies, susceptibility to hippocampus kindling epileptogenesis was lower in mice during diestrus. These results demonstrate the estrous cycle-related plasticity of neurosteroid-sensitive, -containing GABA(A) receptors that mediate tonic inhibition and seizure susceptibility. These findings may provide novel insight on molecular cascades of menstrual disorders like catamenial epilepsy, premenstrual syndrome, and migraine.

Glycine receptors mediate fast synaptic inhibition in spinal cord and brainstem. Two  subunits are present in adult neurones, 1, which forms most of the synaptic glycine receptors, and 3. The physiological role of 3 is not known, despite the fact that 3 expression is concentrated in areas involved in nociceptive processing, such as the superficial dorsal horn. In the present study, we characterized the kinetic properties of rat homomeric 3 glycine receptors heterologously expressed in HEK293 cells. We analysed steady state single channel activity at a range of different glycine concentrations by fitting kinetic schemes and found that 3 channels resemble 1 receptors in their high maximum open probability (99.1% cf. 98% for 1), but differ in that maximum open probability is reached when all five binding sites are occupied by glycine (cf. three out of five sites for 1). 3 activation was best described by kinetic schemes that allow the channel to open also when partially liganded and that contain more than the minimum number of shut states, either as desensitized distal states (Jones and Westbrook scheme) or as pre-open gating intermediates (flip scheme). We recorded also synaptic-like 3 currents elicited by the rapid application of 1 ms pulses of high concentration glycine to outside-out patches. These currents had fast deactivation, with a time constant of decay of 9 ms. Thus, if native synaptic currents can be mediated by 3 glycine receptors, they are likely to be very close in their kinetics to 1-mediated synaptic events.
The neuromuscular junction is known as a strong and reliable synapse. It is strong because it releases an excess of chemical transmitter, beyond what is required to bring the postsynaptic muscle cell to threshold. Because the synapse can sustain suprathreshold muscle activation during short trains of action potentials, it is also reliable. The presynaptic mechanisms that lead to reliability during short trains of activity have only recently been elucidated. It appears that there are relatively few calcium channels in individual active zones, that channels open with a low probability during action potential stimulation and that even if channels open the resulting calcium flux only rarely triggers vesicle fusion. Thus, each synaptic vesicle may only associate with a small number of calcium channels, forming an unreliable single vesicle release site. Strength and reliability of the neuromuscular junction emerge as a result of its assembly from thousands of these unreliable single vesicle release sites. Hence, these synapses are strong while at the same time only releasing a small subset of available docked vesicles during each action potential, thus conserving transmitter release resources. This prevents significant depression during short trains of action potential activity and confers reliability.
The covalent attachment of the 76 amino acid peptide ubiquitin to target proteins is a rapid and reversible modification that regulates protein stability, activity and localization. As such, it is a potent mechanism for sculpting the synapse. Recent studies from two genetic model organisms, Caenorhabditis elegans and Drosophila, have provided mounting evidence that ubiquitin-mediated pathways play important roles in controlling the presynaptic size, synaptic elimination and stabilization, synaptic transmission, postsynaptic receptor abundance, axonal degeneration and regeneration. While the data supporting the requirement of ubiquitination/deubiquitination for normal synaptic development and repair are compelling, detailed analyses of signalling events up- and downstream of these ubiquitin modifications are often challenging. This article summarizes the related research conducted in worms and flies and provides insight into the fundamental questions facing this field.
Voltage-gated K(+) (KV) channels play critical roles in shaping neuronal signals. KV channels distributed in the perisomatic regions and thick dendrites of cortical pyramidal neurons have been extensively studied. However, the properties and regulation of KV channels distributed in the thin axons remain unknown. In this study, by performing somatic and axonal patch-clamp recordings from layer 5 pyramidal neurons of prefrontal cortical slices, we showed that the rapidly inactivating A-currents mediated the transient K(+) currents evoked by action potential (AP) waveform command (KAP) at the soma, whereas the rapidly activating but slowly inactivating KV1-mediated D-currents dominated the KAP at the axon. In addition, activation of D1-like receptors for dopamine decreased the axonal K(+) currents, as a result of an increase in the activity of cAMP-PKA pathway. In contrast, activation of D2-like receptors showed an opposite effect on the axonal K(+) currents. Further experiments demonstrated that functional D1-like receptors were expressed at the main axon trunk and their activation could broaden the waveforms of axonal APs. Together, these results show that axonal KV channels were subjected to dopamine modulation, and this modulation could regulate the waveforms of propagating APs at the axon, suggesting an important role of dopaminergic modulation of axonal KV channels in regulating neuronal signalling.
Striatal fast spiking interneurons (FSIs) modulate output of the striatum by synchronizing medium-sized spiny neurons (MSNs). Recent studies have broadened our understanding of FSIs, showing that they are implicated in severe motor disorders such as parkinsonism, dystonia and Tourette syndrome. FSIs are the only striatal neurons to express the calcium-binding protein parvalbumin (PV). This selective expression of PV raises questions about the functional role of this Ca(2+) buffer in controlling FSI Ca(2+) dynamics and, consequently, FSI spiking mode and neurotransmission. To study the functional involvement of FSIs in striatal microcircuit activity and the role of PV in FSI function, we performed perforated patch recordings on enhanced green fluorescent protein-expressing FSIs in brain slices from control and PV-/- mice. Our results revealed that PV-/- FSIs fired more regularly and were more excitable than control FSIs by a mechanism in which Ca(2+) buffering is linked to spiking activity as a result of the activation of small conductance Ca(2+)-dependent K(+) channels. A modelling approach of striatal FSIs supports our experimental results. Furthermore, PV deletion modified frequency-specific short-term plasticity at inhibitory FSI to MSN synapses. Our results therefore reinforce the hypothesis that in FSIs, PV is crucial for fine-tuning of the temporal responses of the FSI network and for the orchestration of MSN populations. This, in turn, may play a direct role in the generation and pathology-related worsening of motor rhythms.
The main aim of the study was to examine the effects of transcranial polarization on neurons in two descending motor systems, rubro- and reticulospinal. Anodal DC current was applied through an electrode in contact with the skull over the contralateral sensori-motor cortex, against an electrode placed between the skull and the ipsilateral temporal muscles in deeply anaesthetized cats. Its effects were estimated from changes in descending volleys evoked by electrical stimuli applied in the red nucleus (RN), medial longitudinal fascicle (MLF; to reticulospinal fibres) and the pyramidal tract (PT; to corticospinal or corticoreticular fibres). The descending volleys were recorded from the surface of the spinal cord at a cervical level. Rubrospinal neurones were activated either directly or indirectly, via interpositorubral fibres. Reticulospinal neurons were likewise activated directly and indirectly, via other reticulospinal or corticospinal fibres. Transcranial polarization facilitated transsynaptic activation of both rubrospinal and reticulospinal neurons, shortening the latency of the indirect descending volleys and/or increasing them, Direct activation of descending axons was much less affected. The facilitation of all subcortical neurons examined was potentiated by repeated applications of transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) and outlasted the polarization by at least 1-2 h, replicating tDCS effects on indirect activation of cortical neurons. The results indicate that the beneficial effects of tDCS on motor performance in humans may be due to more efficient activation of not only cortical but also subcortical neuronal systems. Combined actions of tDCS on cortical and subcortical neurones might thus further improve recovery of motor functions during rehabilitation after central injuries. 249/250.
Aside from rare counterexamples (e.g. the starburst amacrine cell in retina), neurons are polarized into two compartments, dendrites and axon, which are linked at the cell body. This structural polarization carries an underlying molecular definition and maps into a general functional polarization whereby inputs are collected by the dendrites and cell body, and output is distributed via the axon. Explanations of how the polarized structure arises invariably coalesce around somatic polarity, defined by the roving location of the microtubule organizing centre, or centrosome, the Golgi apparatus, associated endosomes and the nucleus during early development. In some neurons, proper positioning of these structures can determine the sites for axon and dendrite elongation, and support processes that underlie cell migration. We briefly review these events as a basis to propose a new role for polarized arrangement of somatic organelles as a potential determinant for patterned innervation of the cell body membrane. We cite an example from preliminary studies of synaptogenesis at the calyx of Held, a large nerve terminal that selectively innervates the cell body of its postsynaptic partner, and suggest other neural systems in which polarity mechanisms may guide initial synapse formation onto the somatic surface.
Emulsified isoflurane (EIso) preconditioning can induce cardioprotection. We investigated whether EIso application after ischemia protects hearts against reperfusion injury and whether it is mediated by the inhibition of apoptosis. Rats were subjected to 30-min coronary occlusion followed by 180-min reperfusion. At the onset of reperfusion, rats were intravenously administered saline (sham, control group), 30% intralipid (IL group) or 2mlkg(-1) EIso (EIso group) for 30min. After reperfusion, infarct sizes, myocardial apoptosis and expression of Bcl-2, Bax and caspase-3 proteins were determined. Hemodynamic parameters were not different among groups. Compared with control and intralipid group, EIso limited infarct size, inhibited apoptosis, increased the expression of Bcl-2, decreased the expression of Bax, cleaved caspase-3, and enhanced Bcl-2/Bax ratio. EIso protects hearts against reperfusion injury when administered at the onset of reperfusion, which may be mediated by the inhibition of apoptosis via modulation of the expression of pro- and anti-apoptotic proteins.
An examination of top-cited articles is a tool that can be used to identify and monitor outstanding scientific research. The goal of this study was to identify and analyze the characteristics of the 100 top-cited articles published in international journals dedicated to psychiatry. The Science Citation Index Expanded provided by the Thomson Reuters Institute for Scientific Information Web of Knowledge was searched in December, 2011, and 128 journals were identified in the subject category &quot;Psychiatry.&quot; Each journal was searched on the Web of Science under &quot;Publication Name&quot; and the results were sorted by category &quot;Times Cited.&quot; The 100 top-cited articles were recorded, and the list was analyzed with regard to journals, number of citations, authors, year, institution, and country of origin. The original research articles of the 100 top-cited articles were classified into one of five categories: scale/measurement, descriptive/epidemiology, mechanism, management, and imaging. The 100 top-cited articles were cited between 26,578 and 781 times; they were published between 1957 and 2005, with the largest number (35) published in the 1990s. The articles appeared in 24 journals, with more than half published in the Archives of General Psychiatry (56), followed by the American Journal of Psychiatry (6), and Psychological Medicine (6). Articles that dealt with the development, application, or validity of measurements led the list of top-cited psychiatric publications (43) and had a significantly higher number of citations compared with the rest of the articles. The time and language of publication, field of study, country of origin, and journal in which the paper appeared are possible determinants of the likelihood of citation and impact.


Ketamine is a non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist that is Food and Drug Administration-approved in the United States for anesthesia due to its sedative effects with low risk of severe respiratory depression. Subanesthetic dose intravenous ketamine has rapidly acting antidepressant effects in treatment-resistant unipolar and bipolar depression. We recently reported an open-label trial of ketamine in 10 subjects with treatment-refractory obsessive-compulsive disorder, seven of whom had active comorbid depression. Although ketamine had no sustained anti-obsessive effect, four of the seven subjects with comorbid depression experienced an acute antidepressant effect. However, we unexpectedly observed delayed-onset dysphoria, worsening anxiety and suicidal thinking in two of the three subjects with obsessive-compulsive disorder and extensive psychiatric comorbidity but minimal depressive symptoms at the start of infusion. The implications of these adverse neuropsychiatric effects in two patients with similar psychiatric comorbidity are discussed. We conclude that there remains insufficient data on therapeutic ketamine in the presence of comorbid psychiatric disorders to promote its off-label use in a non-research milieu.




A recent observational study of &gt;20,000 patients with recent ischemic stroke suggested that systolic blood pressure (SBP) maintained in a low-normal range may be associated with increased risk of recurrent stroke, especially within the first 6 months after the first stroke. Using a distinct cohort, the current study aimed to independently evaluate the relationship between low-normal SBP levels and risk of recurrent stroke through analysis of a trial dataset involving 3680 patients with recent noncardioembolic ischemic stroke aged  35 years recruited from 56 centers between September 1996 and May 2003 and followed for 2 years. Subjects were categorized based on their mean in-trial SBP value as low-normal (&lt;120 mm Hg), high-normal (120 to &lt;140 mm Hg), or high (&gt;140 mm Hg). The primary outcome was stroke. Multivariate analyses used competing-risks Cox regression models. The rate of recurrent stroke was 9.1% in the low-normal group, 6.7% in the high-normal group, and 10% in the high group. The difference in recurrent stroke rate between the low-normal and high-normal groups was more prominent within the first 6 months (low-normal, 4.5%; high-normal, 2.5%; high, 3.4%) than after 6 months (low-normal, 4.6%; high-normal, 4.2%; high, 6.6%). Over the study period, compared with the high-normal group, the risk of the primary outcome trended higher in the low-normal group (adjusted hazard ratio, 1.47; 95% confidence interval, 0.94-2.29; P = .09) and was higher in the high group (adjusted hazard ratio, 1.39; 95% confidence interval, 1.08-1.79; P = .01). These results support the recently described pattern of increased risk of recurrent stroke in patients with low-normal SBP levels, especially within the first 6 months after first stroke. However, this study likely was not sufficiently powered to detect more than a strong statistical trend underlying this relationship.

The endocrine cytokine leptin is mainly secreted by white adipose tissue and plasma leptin levels positively correlate with body fat mass. Via its action on neurons in the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus (ARC), leptin regulates body weight by stimulating energy expenditure and inhibiting food intake. The main signaling pathway of the leptin receptor is the JAK2-STAT3 pathway. A recent publication of Huang et al. in Nature Neuroscience shows that leptin's hypothalamic signaling via JAK2 requires the kinase ROCK1 (Rho-associated coiled-coil-containing protein kinase 1). ROCK1 directly phosphorylates JAK2, and this phosphorylation is required for the JAK2-STAT3 pathway of the leptin receptor. Gene deletion of ROCK1 in ARC neurons targeted by leptin makes these neurons less sensitive to leptin. This is reflected by a pronounced weight gain with hyperphagia, reduced locomotor activity, and increased fat accumulation. In this article we comment on the article of Huang et al. While the mechanism of ROCK1 activation in the neurons remains uncharacterized for the moment, a literature survey suggests that the interplay between ROCK1 and a JAK kinase may be a common theme for receptors that function via a JAK2 and even for other members of the JAK kinase family.







Ethical research practices are a key component of scientific integrity and of public support for research. Hibernation research presents specific ethical issues in regard to animal welfare. In this article, the authors apply the '3Rs' principles of humane experimental technique (replacement, reduction and refinement) to hibernation research. They provide recommendations for hibernation researchers and suggest future directions for addressing issues specific to hibernation research. They discuss the use of appropriate behavioral and physiological monitoring procedures, the development of species-specific brain atlases for placement of brain probes, the provision of environmental enrichment and the management of studies involving pharmacological induction of torpor. Addressing these issues in hibernation research will lead to improvements in research outcomes and in welfare of hibernating species.
Chronic cough is a common symptom that can be a daunting challenge for clinicians since treatment of the underlying cause does not always provide adequate relief, an obvious cause can remain elusive, and current antitussives have fairly poor efficacy and undesirable side-effects. Patients with chronic cough typically describe a range of sensory symptoms suggestive of upper-airway and laryngeal neural dysfunction. Additionally, patients often report cough triggered by low-level physical and chemical stimuli, which is suggestive of cough-reflex hyperresponsiveness. Pathophysiological mechanisms underlying peripheral and central augmentation of the afferent cough pathways have been identified, and compelling evidence exists for a neuropathy of vagal sensory nerves after upper-respiratory viral infections or exposure to allergic and non-allergic irritants. In this Personal View, we argue that chronic cough is a neuropathic disorder that arises from neural damage caused by a range of inflammatory, infective, and allergic factors. In support of this idea, we discuss evidence of successful treatment of chronic cough with agents used for treatment of neuropathic pain, such as gabapentin and amitriptyline. Regarding cough as a neuropathic disorder could lead to new, more effective antitussives.
This paper reports on the adaptation of a training programme for conversation partners of persons with Parkinson's disease, and a protocol for assessment of possible changes in conversational interaction as a result of intervention. We present data from an explorative multiple case study with three individuals with Parkinson's disease and their spouses. Repeated analysis of natural conversational interaction and measures of the participants' perception of communication as well as measures of different cognitive abilities were obtained. The results show that the communication in all three dyads was affected by both speech and language problems and that the conversation training model and the assessment protocol may work well after minor adjustments. Influence of different aspects of cognition on communication is discussed.
Arterial spin labeling (ASL) is a noninvasive technique that can measure cerebral blood flow (CBF). To our knowledge, there is no study that examined regional CBF of multiple sclerosis (MS) patients by using this technique. The present study assessed the relationship between clinical presentations and functional imaging data in MS using pseudocontinuous arterial spin labeling (pCASL). Twenty-seven patients with MS and 24 healthy volunteers underwent magnetic resonance imaging and pCASL to assess CBF. Differences in CBF between the two groups and the relationships of CBF values with the T2-hyperintense volume were evaluated. Compared to the healthy volunteers, reduced CBF was found in the bilateral thalami and right frontal region of the MS patients. The volume of the T2-hyperintense lesion was negatively correlated with regional CBF in some areas, such as both thalami. Our results suggest that demyelinated lesions in MS mainly have a remote effect on the thalamus and that the measurement of CBF using ASL could be an objective marker for monitoring disease activity in MS.


Depression is one of the most burdensome diseases in the world. Although the exact pathogenesis remains unknown, stress is a well-known risk factor for the development of depression. Recently, stress has been known to induce loss of dendritic spines in neurons. Interestingly, also in human brains, higher levels of anxiety and depression scores are associated with decreased densities of spines in the hippocampus, supporting that the disturbance of spine homeostasis is deeply involved in the pathogenesis of depression. On the other hand, general serotonin vulnerability has been also proposed as a major risk factor in depression, where the paucity of available serotonin is involved in the pathogenesis of depression, indicating that the serotonergic system somehow possesses the ability to regulate spine homeostasis. However, the relationship between spine homeostasis and the serotonergic system is largely unknown. Thus, in this manuscript, I try to find the missing link between spine homeostasis and the serotonergic system. The hypothesis is as follows. First, stress reduces the number of spines. Since spine homeostasis is tightly regulated by the serotonergic system, the spine loss is compensated by activated serotonergic system in normal conditions. However, various factors, such as genetic predispositions and heavy stress, decrease the resilience of spine homeostasis. In such conditions, the serotonergic system cannot compensate spine homeostasis anymore, leading to disrupted spine homeostasis. Finally, disrupted spine homeostasis results in depression. The characteristic point of this hypothesis is that it can monistically explain the pathogenesis of depression, where disturbance of spine homeostasis is the main cause.
Theories have proposed that the maintenance of object representations in visual working memory is aided by a spatial rehearsal mechanism. In this study, we used two different approaches to test the hypothesis that overt and covert visual-spatial attention mechanisms contribute to the maintenance of object representations in visual working memory. First, we tracked observers' eye movements while they remembered a variable number of objects during change-detection tasks. We observed that during the blank retention interval, participants spontaneously shifted gaze to the locations that the objects had occupied in the memory array. Next, we hypothesized that if attention mechanisms contribute to the maintenance of object representations, then drawing attention away from the object locations during the retention interval should impair object memory during these change-detection tasks. Supporting this prediction, we found that attending to the fixation point in anticipation of a brief probe stimulus during the retention interval reduced change-detection accuracy, even on the trials in which no probe occurred. These findings support models of working memory in which visual-spatial selection mechanisms contribute to the maintenance of object representations.
Multiple Symmetrical Lipomatosis (MSL) is an unusual disorder characterized by the development of axial lipomas in adulthood. The pathoetiology of lipoma tissue in MSL remains unresolved. Seven patients with MSL were followed for a mean period of 12 years (8-20 years). All patients had cervical lipomas ranging from subtle lesions to disfiguring masses; six patients had peripheral neuropathy and five had proximal myopathy. Myoclonus, cerebellar ataxia and additional lipomas were variably present. All patients showed clinical progression. Muscle histopathology was consistent with mitochondrial disease. Five patients were positive for mtDNA point mutation m.8344A&gt;G, three of whom underwent lipoma resection--all samples were positive for uncoupling protein-1 mRNA (unique to brown fat). Lipoma from one case stained positive for adipocyte fatty-acid protein-2 (unique to brown fat and immature adipocytes). This long-term study hallmarks the phenotypic heterogeneity of MSL's associated clinical features. The clinical, genetic and molecular findings substantiate the hypothesis that lipomas in MSL are due to a mitochondrial disorder of brown fat.
Self-amplification of phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) signaling is believed to regulate asymmetric membrane extension and cell migration, but the molecular organization of the underlying feedback circuit is elusive. Here we use an inducible approach to synthetically activate PI3K and interrogate the feedback circuitry governing self-enhancement of 3'-phosphoinositide (3-PI) signals in NIH3T3 fibroblasts. Synthetic activation of PI3K initially leads to uniform production of 3-PIs at the plasma membrane, followed by the appearance of asymmetric and highly amplified 3-PI signals. A detailed spatiotemporal analysis shows that local self-amplifying 3-PI signals drive rapid membrane extension with remarkable directional persistence and initiate a robust migratory response. This positive feedback loop is critically dependent on the small GTPase HRas. Silencing of HRas abrogates local amplification of 3-PI signals upon synthetic PI3K activation and results in short-lived protrusion events that do not support cell migration. Finally, our data indicate that this feedback circuit is likely to operate during platelet-derived growth factor-induced random cell migration. We conclude that positive feedback between PI3K and HRas is essential for fibroblasts to spontaneously self-organize and generate a productive migratory response in the absence of spatial cues.
The human brain is extraordinarily complex, composed of billions of neurons and trillions of synaptic connections. Neurons are organized into circuit assemblies that are modulated by specific interneurons and non-neuronal cells, such as glia and astrocytes. Data on human genome sequences predicts that each of these cells in the human brain has the potential of expressing 20000 protein coding genes and tens of thousands of noncoding RNAs. A major challenge in neuroscience is to determine (1) how individual neurons and circuitry utilize this potential during development and maturation of the nervous system, and for higher brain functions such as cognition, and (2) how this potential is altered in neurological and psychiatric disorders. In this review, we will discuss how recent advances in next generation sequencing, proteomics and bioinformatics have transformed our understanding of gene expression and the functions of neural circuitry, memory storage, and disorders of cognition.
The molecular basis underlying the physiologically well-defined orexigenic function of glucocorticoid (Gc) is unclear. Brain-specific homeobox factor (Bsx) is a positive regulator of the orexigenic neuropeptide, agouti-related peptide (AgRP), in AgRP neurons of the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus. Here, we show that in response to fasting-elevated Gc levels, Gc receptor (GR) and Bsx synergize to direct activation of AgRP transcription. This synergy is dictated by unique sequence features in a novel Gc response element in AgRP (AgRP-GRE). In contrast to AgRP-GRE, Bsx suppresses transactivation directed by many conventional GREs, functioning as a gene context-dependent modulator of GR actions or a target selector for GR. Consistent with this finding, AgRP-GRE drives fasting-dependent activation of a target gene specifically in GR(+) Bsx(+) AgRP neurons. These results define AgRP as a common orexigenic target gene of GR and Bsx and provide an opportunity to identify their additional common targets, facilitating our understanding of the molecular basis underlying the orexigenic activity of Gc and Bsx.
Although Wnt7a has been implicated in axon guidance and synapse formation, investigations of its role in the early steps of neurogenesis have just begun. We show here that Wnt7a is essential for neural stem cell self-renewal and neural progenitor cell cycle progression in adult mouse brains. Loss of Wnt7a expression dramatically reduced the neural stem cell population and increased the rate of cell cycle exit in neural progenitors in the hippocampal dentate gyrus of adult mice. Furthermore, Wnt7a is important for neuronal differentiation and maturation. Loss of Wnt7a expression led to a substantial decrease in the number of newborn neurons in the hippocampal dentate gyrus. Wnt7a(-/-) dentate granule neurons exhibited dramatically impaired dendritic development. Moreover, Wnt7a activated -catenin and its downstream target genes to regulate neural stem cell proliferation and differentiation. Wnt7a stimulated neural stem cell proliferation by activating the -catenin-cyclin D1 pathway and promoted neuronal differentiation and maturation by inducing the -catenin-neurogenin 2 pathway. Thus, Wnt7a exercised critical control over multiple steps of neurogenesis by regulating genes involved in both cell cycle control and neuronal differentiation.
Reduced glucose metabolism is an invariant feature of Alzheimer's Disease (AD) and an outstanding biomarker of disease progression. Glucose metabolism may be an attractive therapeutic target, whether the decline initiates AD pathophysiology or is a critical component of a cascade. The cause of cerebral regional glucose hypometabolism remains unclear. Thiamine-dependent processes are critical in glucose metabolism and are diminished in brains of AD patients at autopsy. Further, the reductions in thiamine-dependent processes are highly correlated to the decline in clinical dementia rating scales. In animal models, thiamine deficiency exacerbates plaque formation, promotes phosphorylation of tau and impairs memory. In contrast, treatment of mouse models of AD with the thiamine derivative benfotiamine diminishes plaques, decreases phosphorylation of tau and reverses memory deficits. Diabetes predisposes to AD, which suggests they may share some common mechanisms. Benfotiamine diminishes peripheral neuropathy in diabetic humans and animals. In diabetes, benfotiamine induces key thiamine-dependent enzymes of the pentose shunt to reduce accumulation of toxic metabolites including advanced glycation end products (AGE). Related mechanisms may lead to reversal of plaque formation by benfotiamine in animals. If so, the use of benfotiamine could provide a safe intervention to reverse biological and clinical processes of AD progression. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Mitochondrial function and dysfunction in neurodegeneration'.
Despite years of intensive research, the understanding of Parkinson's disease (PD) is still rudimentary. Genetic causes of rare familial cases have offered venues of investigation, and interestingly, have strengthened the case for a mitochondrial dysfunction in the pathogenesis of PD. Mouse models, where these and other mitochondrial-related genes are affected are helping not only in understanding PD, but also in providing a powerful tool to test therapeutics. In this review, we will discuss the different characteristics of these mouse models. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Mitochondrial function and dysfunction in neurodegeneration'.
The activity of mitochondrial alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase complex (KGDHC) is severely reduced in human pathologies where oxidative stress is traditionally thought to play an important role, such as familial and sporadic forms of Alzheimer's disease and other age-related neurodegenerative diseases. This minireview is focused on substantial data that were accumulated over the last 2 decades to support the concept that KGDHC can be a primary mitochondrial target of oxidative stress and at the same time a key contributor to it by producing reactive oxygen species. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Mitochondrial function and dysfunction in neurodegeneration'.
Glucocorticoids down-regulate expression of hypothalamic CRH; however, mechanisms by which they do so are not fully understood. The proximal promoter cAMP response element, negative glucocorticoid response element (nGRE), and methylated CpG islands all play a role in crh down-regulation. Dexamethasone (Dex)-repressed crh expression is associated with glucocorticoid receptor (GR) and histone deacetylase 1 (HDAC1) recruitment to the region of the crh promoter. Given that HDAC1 may be present in methylated CpG binding protein 2 (MeCP2) complexes, and that MeCP2 is known to play a role in regulating crh expression, we sought to determine whether or not HDAC1 and/or MeCP2 could interact with the GR. Dex enhanced GR interactions with both proteins. Glucocorticoid regulation of crh has also been associated with CpG methylation; thus we assessed whether GR could interact with a DNA methyltransferase (DnMT). Indeed, the GR interacted with DnMT3b, but not DnMT3a. In addition, Dex-induced occupancy of the crh promoter by HDAC1, MeCP2, and DnMT3b was associated with an increased level of promoter methylation, which appeared to be CpG site specific. Lastly, to extend previous assessment of chromatin modifications in this promoter region, the degree of histone methylation was measured. Dex increased trimethylation of histone 3-lysine 9, a marker of gene suppression; however, levels of di- and trimethylated histone 3-lysine 4, markers of gene activation, were not significantly changed. Taken together, the data suggest that Dex-mediated crh suppression involves formation of a repressor complex consisting of GR, MeCP2, and HDAC1, recruitment of DnMT3b, and associated changes in proximal promoter CpG methylation.
The pharmacological exploitation of resveratrol is hindered by rapid phase-II conjugative metabolism in enterocytes and hepatocytes. One approach to the solution of this problem relies on prodrugs. We report the synthesis and characterization as well as the assessment of in vivo absorption and metabolism of a set of prodrugs of resveratrol in which the OH groups are engaged in the formal (-OCH2OR) or the more labile acetal (-OCH(CH3)OR) linkages. As carrier group (R) of the prodrug, we have used short ethyleneglycol oligomers (OEG) capped by a terminal methoxy group: -O-(CH2CH2O)n-CH3 (n = 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 6). These moieties are expected to exhibit, to a degree, the favorable properties of longer polyethyleneglycol (PEG) chains, while their relatively small size makes for a more favorable drug loading capacity. After administration of formal-based prodrugs to rats by oral gavage, significant concentrations of derivatives were measured in blood samples over several hours, in all cases except for n = 0. Absorption was maximal for n = 4. Complete deprotection to give resveratrol and its metabolites was however too slow to be of practical use. Administration of the acetal prodrug carrying tetrameric OEG chains resulted instead in the protracted presence of resveratrol metabolites in blood, consistent with a progressive regeneration of the parent molecule from the prodrug after its absorption. The results suggest that prodrugs of polyphenols based on the acetal bond and short ethyleneglycol oligomers of homogeneous size may be a convenient tool for the systemic delivery of the unconjugated parent compound.
The successful application of gene therapy approaches is highly dependent on the efficient delivery of nucleic acids into target cells. In the present study, new peptide-based nonviral systems were developed to enhance plasmid DNA and siRNA delivery, aiming at generating appropriate gene delivery and gene silencing tools for preclinical and clinical application. For this purpose, a new cell-penetrating peptide derived from the wild-type S4(13)-PV peptide was synthesized through the addition of a five-histidine tail to its N-terminus (H5-S4(13)-PV), and its ability to mediate gene expression and gene silencing was evaluated and compared to that of the wild-type peptide. The histidine-enriched peptide, H5-S4(13)-PV, proved to be generally more efficient and less toxic than the wild-type peptide in the delivery of plasmid DNA. In addition, complexes of H5-S4(13)-PV with siRNAs, but not of S4(13)-PV, were efficiently internalized by cells and presented high knockdown activity (63%). Interestingly, systems containing the S4(13)-PV or the H5-S4(13)-PV peptide exhibited superior biological activity when compared to those containing the reverse NLS or scrambled peptides, suggesting that both the cell-penetrating sequence and the NLS of the S4(13)-PV peptide influence the competence of binary and ternary complexes to accomplish nucleic acid delivery. In order to unravel the cancer therapeutic potential of formulations with the histidine-enriched peptide, their efficiency to mediate silencing of the oncogenic protein survivin was evaluated. As opposed to complexes with the wild-type peptide, H5-S4(13)-PV complexes showed the ability to promote a high survivin knockdown at the level of both protein (44%) and mRNA (73%), in HT1080 cells.
Cyclooxygenase (COX)-2-derived prostanoids can influence several processes that are linked to carcinogenesis. We aimed to address the hypothesis that platelets contribute to aberrant COX-2 expression in HT29 colon carcinoma cells and to reveal the role of platelet-induced COX-2 on the expression of proteins involved in malignancy and marker genes of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). Human platelets cocultured with HT29 cells rapidly adhered to cancer cells and induced COX-2 mRNA expression, but not protein synthesis, which required the late release of platelet-derived growth factor and COX-2 mRNA stabilization. Platelet-induced COX-2-dependent prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) synthesis in HT29 cells was involved in the downregulation of p21(WAF1/CIP1) and the upregulation of cyclinB1 since these effects were prevented by rofecoxib (a selective COX-2 inhibitor) and rescued by exogenous PGE2. Galectin-3, which is highly expressed in HT29 cells, is unique among galectins because it contains a collagen-like domain. Thus, we studied the role of galectin-3 and platelet collagen receptors in platelet-induced COX-2 overexpression. Inhibitors of galectin-3 function (-lactose, a dominant-negative form of galectin-3, Gal-3C, and anti-galectin-3 antibody M3/38) or collagen receptor-mediated platelet adhesion (revacept, a dimeric platelet collagen receptor GPVI-Fc) prevented aberrant COX-2 expression. Inhibition of platelet-cancer cell interaction by revacept was more effective than rofecoxib in preventing platelet-induced mRNA changes of EMT markers, suggesting that direct cell-cell contact and aberrant COX-2 expression synergistically induced gene expression modifications associated with EMT. In conclusion, our findings provide the rationale for testing blockers of collagen binding sites, such as revacept, and galectin-3 inhibitors in the prevention of colon cancer metastasis in animal models, followed by studies in patients.
Humans and other organisms have adapted to a consistent and predictable 24-h solar cycle, but over the past ~130 years the widespread adoption of electric light has transformed our environment. Instead of aligning behavioral and physiological processes to the natural solar cycle, individuals respond to artificial light cycles created by social and work schedules. Urban light pollution, night shift work, transmeridian travel, televisions and computers have dramatically altered the timing of light used to entrain biological rhythms. In humans and other mammals, light is detected by the retina and intrinsically photosensitive retinal ganglion cells project this information both to the circadian system and limbic brain regions. Therefore, it is possible that exposure to light at night, which has become pervasive, may disrupt both circadian timing and mood. Notably, the rate of major depression has increased in recent decades, in parallel with increasing exposure to light at night. Strong evidence already links circadian disruption to major depression and other mood disorders. Emerging evidence from the past few years suggests that exposure to light at night also negatively influences mood. In this review, we discuss evidence from recent human and rodent studies supporting the novel hypothesis that nighttime exposure to light disrupts circadian organization and contributes to depressed mood.
Endocannabinoids are released 'on-demand' on the basis of physiological need, and can be pharmacologically augmented by inhibiting their catabolic degradation. The endocannabinoid anandamide is degraded by the catabolic enzyme fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH). Anandamide is implicated in the mediation of fear behaviors, including fear extinction, suggesting that selectively elevating brain anandamide could modulate plastic changes in fear. Here we first tested this hypothesis with preclinical experiments employing a novel, potent and selective FAAH inhibitor, AM3506 (5-(4-hydroxyphenyl)pentanesulfonyl fluoride). Systemic AM3506 administration before extinction decreased fear during a retrieval test in a mouse model of impaired extinction. AM3506 had no effects on fear in the absence of extinction training, or on various non-fear-related measures. Anandamide levels in the basolateral amygdala were increased by extinction training and augmented by systemic AM3506, whereas application of AM3506 to amygdala slices promoted long-term depression of inhibitory transmission, a form of synaptic plasticity linked to extinction. Further supporting the amygdala as effect-locus, the fear-reducing effects of systemic AM3506 were blocked by intra-amygdala infusion of a CB1 receptor antagonist and were fully recapitulated by intra-amygdala infusion of AM3506. On the basis of these preclinical findings, we hypothesized that variation in the human FAAH gene would predict individual differences in amygdala threat-processing and stress-coping traits. Consistent with this, carriers of a low-expressing FAAH variant (385A allele; rs324420) exhibited quicker habituation of amygdala reactivity to threat, and had lower scores on the personality trait of stress-reactivity. Our findings show that augmenting amygdala anandamide enables extinction-driven reductions in fear in mouse and may promote stress-coping in humans.
Pathological inclusions containing transactive response DNA-binding protein 43kDa (TDP-43) are common in several neurodegenerative diseases including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). TDP-43 normally localizes predominantly to the nucleus, but during disease progression, it mislocalizes to the cytoplasm. We expressed TDP-43 in rats by an adeno-associated virus (AAV9) gene transfer method that transduces neurons throughout the central nervous system (CNS). To mimic the aberrant cytoplasmic TDP-43 found in disease, we expressed a form of TDP-43 with mutations in the nuclear localization signal sequence (TDP-NLS). The TDP-NLS was detected in both the cytoplasm and the nucleus of transduced neurons. Unlike wild-type TDP-43, expression of TDP-NLS did not induce mortality. However, the TDP-NLS induced disease-relevant motor impairments over 24 weeks. We compared the TDP-NLS to a 25kDa C-terminal proaggregatory fragment of TDP-43 (TDP-25). The clinical phenotype of forelimb impairment was pronounced with the TDP-25 form, supporting a role of this C-terminal fragment in pathogenesis. The results advance previous rodent models by inducing cytoplasmic expression of TDP-43 in the spinal cord, and the non-lethal phenotype enabled long-term study. Approaching a more relevant disease state in an animal model that more closely mimics underlying mechanisms in human disease could unlock our ability to develop therapeutics.
Glioblastoma (GBM) comprises 51% of all gliomas and is the most malignant form of brain tumors with a median survival of 18-21 months. Standard-of-care treatment includes maximal surgical resection of the tumor mass in combination with radiation and chemotherapy. However, as the poor survival rate indicates, these treatments have not been effective in preventing disease progression. Cellular immunotherapy is currently being explored as therapeutic approach to treat malignant brain tumors. In this review, we discuss advances in active, passive, and vaccine-based immunotherapeutic strategies for gliomas both at the bench and in the clinic.

The Stalevo Reduction in Dyskinesia Evaluation in Parkinson's Disease (STRIDE-PD) study compared the initiation of levodopa (l-dopa) therapy with l-dopa/carbidopa (LC) versus l-dopa/carbidopa/entacapone (LCE) in patients with Parkinson's disease. In the current study, the STRIDE-PD study population was investigated to determine the effect of l-dopa dose and other risk factors on the development of dyskinesia and wearing-off. Patients were randomized to receive LCE (n=373) or LC (n=372). Blinded assessments for dyskinesia and wearing-off were performed at 3-month intervals for the 134- to 208-week duration of the study. The patients were divided into 4 dose groups based on nominal l-dopa dose at the time of onset of dyskinesia (or at study conclusion if there was no dyskinesia): group 1, &lt;400 mg/day (n=157); group 2, 400 mg/day (n=310); group 3, 401 to 600 mg/day (n=201); and group 4, &gt;600 mg/day (n=77). Similar analyses were performed with respect to wearing-off and any motor complication. The times to onset and frequency of dyskinesia, wearing-off, or any motor complication were compared using the log-rank test (overall trend test) and a Cox proportional hazards model (pairwise comparisons). A stepwise Cox proportional hazards model was used to screen predictive factors in a multivariate analysis. The risk of developing dyskinesia and wearing-off increased in an l-dopa dose-dependent manner (P&lt;0.001 for both). Analyses using l-dopa equivalent doses produced comparable results. Factors that were predictive of dyskinesia, in rank order, were: young age at onset, higher l-dopa dose, low body weight, North American geographic region, LCE treatment group, female gender, and more severe Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) Part II. Multivariate analyses identified similar predictors for wearing-off but included baseline UPDRS Part III and excluded weight and treatment allocation. The risk of developing dyskinesia or wearing-off was closely linked to l-dopa dose. The current results suggest that physicians should use the lowest dose of l-dopa that provides satisfactory clinical control to minimize the risk of both dyskinesia and wearing-off.
Executive dysfunction, including problems with decision-making, inhibition of prepotent responses, and verbal fluency, are main features of Huntington's disease (HD). The decline of executive function in HD is related to the anatomical progression of HD pathology in the basal ganglia, where the earliest changes of neuronal cell death are seen in the dorsolateral caudate. To examine the specific pattern of executive dysfunction in early HD, 18 patients with early HD were assessed on: (1) the Iowa Gambling Task to measure risky decision making, (2) the Stroop test to measure inhibition of prepotent responses, and (3) the verbal fluency test to measure internally guided word search and production, necessitating suppression of retrieval/production of inappropriate words and monitoring of the output. Patients with early HD were significantly impaired on the Stroop and verbal fluency tests relative to controls. However, Iowa Gambling Task performance was comparable across the 2 groups. This pattern of selective executive dysfunction in early HD probably reflects the fact that inhibitory processing involved in both the Stroop and verbal fluency tests recruits the dorsolateral caudate and its cortical connections, which are dysfunctional in early HD, whereas risky decision-making during the Iowa Gambling Task recruits the ventromedial caudate and its connections, which remain spared early on in the disease. The current results demonstrate that the deterioration of executive functioning in HD is variable and that some types of executive processing might already be impaired in early HD, whereas others remain intact.





Single-stranded oligonucleotides are important as research tools, as diagnostic probes, in gene therapy and in DNA nanotechnology. Oligonucleotides are typically produced via solid-phase synthesis, using polymer chemistries that are limited relative to what biological systems produce. The number of errors in synthetic DNA increases with oligonucleotide length, and the resulting diversity of sequences can be a problem. Here we present the 'monoclonal stoichiometric' (MOSIC) method for enzyme-mediated production of DNA oligonucleotides. We amplified oligonucleotides from clonal templates derived from single bacterial colonies and then digested cutter hairpins in the products, which released pools of oligonucleotides with precisely controlled relative stoichiometric ratios. We prepared 14-378-nucleotide MOSIC oligonucleotides either by in vitro rolling-circle amplification or by amplification of phagemid DNA in Escherichia coli. Analyses of the formation of a DNA crystal and folding of DNA nanostructures confirmed the scalability, purity and stoichiometry of the produced oligonucleotides.
The optical neuroscience revolution is transforming how we study neural circuits. By providing a precise way to manipulate endogenous neuronal signaling proteins, it also has the potential to transform our understanding of molecular neuroscience. Recent advances in chemical biology have produced light-sensitive compounds that photoregulate a wide variety of proteins underlying signaling between and within neurons. Chemical tools for optopharmacology include caged agonists and antagonists and reversibly photoswitchable ligands. These reagents act on voltage-gated ion channels and neurotransmitter receptors, enabling control of neuronal signaling with a high degree of spatial and temporal precision. By covalently attaching photoswitch molecules to genetically tagged proteins, the newly emerging methodology of optogenetic pharmacology allows biochemically precise control in targeted subsets of neurons. Now that the tools for manipulating endogenous neuronal signaling proteins are available, they can be implemented in vivo to enhance our understanding of the molecular bases of brain function and dysfunctions.
Optogenetic approaches promise to revolutionize neuroscience by using light to manipulate neural activity in genetically or functionally defined neurons with millisecond precision. Harnessing the full potential of optogenetic tools, however, requires light to be targeted to the right neurons at the right time. Here we discuss some barriers and potential solutions to this problem. We review methods for targeting the expression of light-activatable molecules to specific cell types, under genetic, viral or activity-dependent control. Next we explore new ways to target light to individual neurons to allow their precise activation and inactivation. These techniques provide a precision in the temporal and spatial activation of neurons that was not achievable in previous experiments. In combination with simultaneous recording and imaging techniques, these strategies will allow us to mimic the natural activity patterns of neurons in vivo, enabling previously impossible 'dream experiments'.
The complexity of the central nervous system calls for immunocytochemical procedures that allow target proteins to be localized with high precision and with opportunities for quantitation. Immunogold procedures stand out as particularly powerful in this regard. Although these procedures have found wide application in the neuroscience community, they present limitations and pitfalls that must be taken into account. At the same time, these procedures offer potentials that remain to be fully realized.
Light microscopy can be applied in vivo and can sample large tissue volumes, features crucial for the study of single neurons and neural circuits. However, light microscopy per se is diffraction-limited in resolution, and the substructure of core signaling compartments of neuronal circuits--axons, presynaptic active zones, postsynaptic densities and dendritic spines-can be only insufficiently characterized by standard light microscopy. Recently, several forms of super-resolution light microscopy breaking the diffraction-imposed resolution limit have started to allow highly resolved, dynamic imaging in the cell-biologically highly relevant 10-100 nanometer range ('mesoscale'). New, sometimes surprising answers concerning how protein mobility and protein architectures shape neuronal communication have already emerged. Here we start by briefly introducing super-resolution microscopy techniques, before we describe their use in the analysis of neuronal compartments. We conclude with long-term prospects for super-resolution light microscopy in the molecular and cellular neurosciences.





Decompressive craniectomy (DC)--a surgical procedure that involves removal of part of the skull to accommodate brain swelling--has been used for many years in the management of patients with brain oedema and/or intracranial hypertension, but its place in contemporary practice remains controversial. Results from a recent trial showed that early (neuroprotective) DC was not superior to medical management in patients with diffuse traumatic brain injury. An ongoing trial is investigating the clinical and cost effectiveness of secondary DC as a last-tier therapy for post-traumatic refractory intracranial hypertension. With regard to ischaemic stroke (malignant middle cerebral artery infarction), a recent Cochrane review concluded that DC improves survival compared with medical management, but that a higher proportion of DC survivors experience moderately severe or severe disability. Although many patients have a good outcome, the issue of DC-related disability raises important ethical issues. As DC and subsequent cranioplasty are associated with a number of complications, indiscriminate use of this surgery is not appropriate. Here, we review the evidence and present considerations regarding surgical technique, ethics and cost-effectiveness of DC. Prospective clinical trials and cohort studies are essential to enable optimization of patient care and outcomes.
Uncertainty about a possible future threat disrupts our ability to avoid it or to mitigate its negative impact and thus results in anxiety. Here, we focus the broad literature on the neurobiology of anxiety through the lens of uncertainty. We identify five processes that are essential for adaptive anticipatory responses to future threat uncertainty and propose that alterations in the neural instantiation of these processes result in maladaptive responses to uncertainty in pathological anxiety. This framework has the potential to advance the classification, diagnosis and treatment of clinical anxiety.
Histamine acts as a modulatory neurotransmitter in the mammalian brain. It has an important role in the maintenance of wakefulness, and dysfunction in the histaminergic system has been linked to narcolepsy. Recent evidence suggests that aberrant histamine signalling in the brain may also be a key factor in Gilles de la Tourette syndrome, Parkinson's disease and addictive behaviours. Furthermore, multiple sclerosis (MS) and experimental autoimmune encephalitis, which is an often-used model for MS, are associated with changes in the histaminergic system. This Review explores the possible roles of brain histamine in the mechanisms underlying these diseases.
In the past 8 years, the US Supreme Court has issued landmark opinions in three cases that involved the criminal culpability of juveniles. In the most recent case, in 2012, a ruling prohibited states from mandating life without parole for crimes committed by minors. In these cases, the Court drew on scientific studies of the adolescent brain in concluding that adolescents, by virtue of their inherent psychological and neurobiological immaturity, are not as responsible for their behaviour as adults. This article discusses the Court's rationale in these cases and the role of scientific evidence about adolescent brain development in its decisions. I conclude that the neuroscientific evidence was probably persuasive to the Court not because it revealed something new about the nature of adolescence but precisely because it aligned with common sense and behavioural science.
Shannon's seminal 1948 work gave rise to two distinct areas of research: information theory and mathematical coding theory. While information theory has had a strong influence on theoretical neuroscience, ideas from mathematical coding theory have received considerably less attention. Here we take a new look at combinatorial neural codes from a mathematical coding theory perspective, examining the error correction capabilities of familiar receptive field codes (RF codes). We find, perhaps surprisingly, that the high levels of redundancy present in these codes do not support accurate error correction, although the error-correcting performance of receptive field codes catches up to that of random comparison codes when a small tolerance to error is introduced. However, receptive field codes are good at reflecting distances between represented stimuli, while the random comparison codes are not. We suggest that a compromise in error-correcting capability may be a necessary price to pay for a neural code whose structure serves not only error correction, but must also reflect relationships between stimuli.

Lowering the production and accumulation of A has been explored as treatment for Alzheimer's disease (AD), because A is postulated to play an important role in the pathogenesis of AD. 5-HT4 receptors are an interesting drug target in this regard, as their activation might stimulate -secretase processing, which increases sAPP and reduces A, at least according to the central dogma in APP processing. Here we describe a novel high-affinity 5-HT4 receptor agonist SSP-002392 that, in cultured human neuroblastoma cells, potently increases the levels of cAMP and sAPP at 100-fold lower concentrations than the effective concentrations of prucalopride, a known selective 5-HT4 receptor agonist. Chronic administration of this compound in a hAPP/PS1 mouse model of Alzheimer's disease decreased soluble and insoluble A in hippocampus, but the potential mechanisms underlying these observations seem to be complex. We found no evidence for direct -secretase stimulation in the brain invivo, but observed decreased APP and BACE-1 expression and elevated astroglia and microglia responses. Taken together these results provide support for a potential disease-modifying aspect when stimulating central 5-HT4 receptors; however, the complexity of the phenomena warrants further research.
Diabetic encephalopathy is now accepted as an important complication of diabetes. The breakdown of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) is associated with dementia in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). The purpose of this study was to identify the possible mechanisms responsible for the disruption of the BBB after exposure to advanced glycation end-products (AGEs). We investigated the effect of AGEs on the basement membrane and the barrier property of the BBB by Western blot analysis, using our newly established lines of human brain microvascular endothelial cell (BMEC), pericytes, and astrocytes. AGEs reduced the expression of claudin-5 in BMECs by increasing the autocrine signaling through vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2) secreted by the BMECs themselves. Furthermore, AGEs increased the amount of fibronectin in the pericytes through a similar up-regulation of the autocrine transforming growth factor (TGF)- released by pericytes. These results indicated that AGEs induce basement membrane hypertrophy of the BBB by increasing the degree of autocrine TGF- signaling by pericytes, and thereby disrupt the BBB through the up-regulation of VEGF and MMP-2 in BMECs under diabetic conditions.
Preclinical studies in aged, surgically-menopausal rhesus monkeys have revealed powerful benefits of intermittent estrogen injections on prefrontal cortex-dependent working memory, together with corresponding effects on dendritic spine morphology in the prefrontal cortex. This contrasts with the inconsistent effects of hormone therapy (HT) reported in clinical studies in women. Factors contributing to this discrepancy could include differences in the formulation and sequence of HT regimens, resulting in different neurobiological outcomes. The current study evaluated, in aging surgically menopausal rhesus monkeys, the cognitive effects of 4 HT regimens modeled directly on human clinical practice, including continuous estrogen treatment opposed by progesterone. None of the regimens tested produced any cognitive effect, despite yielding physiologically relevant serum hormone levels, as intended. These findings have implications for the design of regimens that might optimize the benefits of hormone treatment for healthy aging, and suggest that common HT protocols used by women may fail to result in substantial cognitive benefit, at least via direct effects on the prefrontal cortex.
Protein kinase C (PKC)  and  activation has been implicated in synaptogenesis. We used aged rats to test whether the PKC/ activator bryostatin and PKC-specific activator DCP-LA combined with spatial memory training could restore mushroom dendritic spinogenesis and synaptogenesis. Compared with young rats, aged, learning-impaired rats had lower memory retention; lower densities of mushroom spines and synapses in the apical dendrites of CA1 pyramidal neurons; fewer PKC-containing presynaptic axonal boutons; and lower activation and expression of two PKC/ substrates, the mRNA-stabilizing protein HuD and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). PKC activator treatment combined with spatial memory training restored mushroom spines and mushroom spine synapses; rescued PKC/ expression and PKC/HuD/BDNF signaling; and normalized memory to the levels seen in young rats. These effects were produced by treatment with either bryostatin or the PKC-specific activator, DCP-LA. Bryostatin also reversed alterations in GABAergic inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSPs) in aged, learning-impaired rats. Thus, our results support the therapeutic potential of PKC activators when added to cognitive rehabilitation for inducing mushroom spine synaptogenesis and reversing memory decline associated with aging.
HIV-1 associated neurocognitive disorders (HAND) are a major complication of HIV-1 infection. The mechanism(s) underlying HAND are not completely understood but, based on in vitro studies, the HIV-1 Tat protein may play an important role. In this study, the effect of prolonged exposure to endogenously produced Tat in the brain was investigated using a tat-transgenic (TT) mouse model constitutively expressing the HIV-1 tat gene. We found that stimulus-evoked glutamate exocytosis in the hippocampus and cortex was significantly increased in TT as compared with wild-type control (CC) mice, while GABA exocytosis was unchanged in the hippocampus and decreased in the cortex. This suggests that Tat generates a latent hyper-excitability state, which favors the detrimental effects of neurotoxic and/or excitotoxic agents. To challenge this idea, TT mice were tested for susceptibility to kainate-induced seizures and neurodegeneration, and found to exhibit significantly greater responses to the convulsant agent than CC mice. These results support the concept that constitutive expression of tat in the brain generates a latent excitatory state, which may increase the negative effects of damaging insults. These events may play a key role in the development of HAND.
It is well-known that Notch signaling plays a critical role in brain development and growing evidence implicates this signaling pathway in adult synaptic plasticity and memory formation. The Notch1 receptor is activated by two subclasses of ligands, Delta-like (including Dll1 and Dll4) and Jagged (including Jag1 and Jag2). Ligand-induced Notch1 receptor signaling is modulated by a family of Fringe proteins, including Lunatic fringe (Lfng). Although Dll1, Jag1 and Lfng are critical regulators of Notch signaling, their relative contribution to memory formation in the adult brain is unknown. To investigate the roles of these important components of Notch signaling in memory formation, we examined spatial and fear memory formation in adult mice with reduced expression of Dll1, Jag1, Lfng and Dll1 plus Lfng. We also examined motor activity, anxiety-like behavior and sensorimotor gating using the acoustic startle response in these mice. Of the lines of mutant mice tested, we found that only mice with reduced Jag1 expression (mice heterozygous for a null mutation in Jag1, Jag1(+/-)) showed a selective impairment in spatial memory formation. Importantly, all other behavior including open field activity, conditioned fear memory (both context and discrete cue), acoustic startle response and prepulse inhibition, was normal in this line of mice. These results provide the first in vivo evidence that Jag1-Notch signaling is critical for memory formation in the adult brain.
The Golgi method, a well-known method used for staining whole dendrites and axonal trees of neurons, has been used widely for studying dendritic growth in vivo. Although detailed structural examination of neurons and their processes stained by the Golgi method has elucidated the complicated neuronal circuit, application of the method in cultured neurons has been unsuccessful to date. Here, we report the development of a stable, highly sensitive Golgi-Cox method that allows visualization of full-length processes, including the dendritic spines and the growth cones, of cultured rat neurons. This modified staining method requires: (1) rat cultured neurons fixed with a mixture containing 4% paraformaldehyde and 12.5% glutaraldehyde before impregnation with mercury; (2) rapid freezing of the fixed neurons using dry ice; and (3) immersion of the fixed neurons in Alexa Fluor 488-conjugated goat anti-rabbit immunoglobulin-G antibody (Molecular Probes, Eugene, OR) for visualization after impregnation.
Traumatic brain injury occasionally causes posttraumatic epilepsy. To elucidate the molecular events responsible for posttraumatic epilepsy, we established a rodent model that involved the injection of microliter quantities of FeCl3 solution into the amygdalar nuclear complex. We previously compared hippocampal gene expression profiles in the traumatic epilepsy model and normal rats at 5 days after brain injury (acute phase) to determine the role of inflammation. In this study, we focused on later stages of epileptogenesis. We compared gene expression profiles at 5, 15 (sub-chronic phase), and 30 days (chronic phase) after brain injury to identify temporal changes in molecular networks involved in epileptogenesis. A total of 81 genes were significantly (at least twofold) up- or downregulated over the course of disease progression. We found that genes related to lipid metabolism, namely, Apoa1, Gh, Mc4r, Oprk1, and Pdk4, were temporarily upregulated in the sub-chronic phase. Changes in lipid metabolism regulation might be related to seizure propagation during epileptogenesis. This temporal description of hippocampal gene expression profiles throughout epileptogenesis provides clues to potential markers of disease phases and new therapeutic targets.


Neuroimaging research has identified several category-selective regions in visual cortex that respond most strongly when viewing an exemplar image from a preferred category, such as faces. Recent studies, however, have suggested a more complex pattern of activation that has been heretofore unrecognized, e.g., the presence of additional patches of activation to faces beyond the well-studied fusiform face area, and the activation of ostensible face selective regions by animate motion of non-biological forms. Here, we characterize the spatial pattern of brain activity evoked by viewing faces or biological motion in large fMRI samples (N&gt;120). We create probabilistic atlases for both face and biological motion activation, and directly compare their spatial patterns of activation. Our findings support the suggestion that the fusiform face area is composed of at least two separable foci of activation. The face-evoked response in the fusiform and nearby ventral temporal cortex has good reliability across runs; however, we found surprisingly high variability in lateral brain regions by faces, and for all brain regions by biological motion, which had an overall much lower effect size. We found that faces and biological motion evoke substantially overlapping activation distributions in both ventral and lateral occipitotemporal cortices. The peaks of activation for these different categories within these overlapping regions were close but distinct.
Recent research has suggested that short-term memory (STM) can be partitioned into three distinct states. By this model, a single item is held in the focus of attention making it available for immediate processing (focus of attention), a capacity-limited set of additional items is actively maintained for future processing (direct access region), and other recently presented information is passively active, but can nevertheless influence ongoing cognition (activated portion of long-term memory). While there is both behavioral and neural support for this 3-state model in verbal STM, it is unclear whether the model generalizes to non-verbal STM. Here, we tested a 3-state model of visual STM using fMRI. We found a triple dissociation of regions involved in the access of each hypothesized state. The inferior parietal cortex mediated access to the focus of attention, the medial temporal lobe (MTL) including the hippocampus mediated access to the direct access region, and the left ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (VLPFC) mediated access to the activated portion of long-term memory. Direct comparison with previously collected verbal STM data revealed overlapping neural activations involved in the access of each state across different forms of content suggesting that mechanisms of access are domain general. These data support a 3-state model of STM.
The present functional imaging study aimed at investigating the contribution of the mediodorsal nucleus and the anterior nuclei of the thalamus with their related cortical networks to recognition memory and recall. Eighteen subjects performed associative picture encoding followed by a single item recognition test during the functional magnetic resonance imaging session. After scanning, subjects performed a cued recall test using the formerly recognized pictures as cues. This post-scanning test served to classify recognition trials according to subsequent recall performance. In general, single item recognition accompanied by successful recall of the associations elicited stronger activation in the mediodorsal nucleus of the thalamus and in the prefrontal cortices both during encoding and retrieval compared to recognition without recall. In contrast, the anterior nuclei of the thalamus were selectively active during the retrieval phase of recognition followed by recall. A correlational analysis showed that activation of the anterior thalamus during retrieval as assessed by measuring the percent signal changes predicted lower rates of recognition without recall. These findings show that the thalamus is critical for recognition accompanied by recall, and provide the first evidence of a functional segregation of the thalamic nuclei with respect to the memory retrieval phase. In particular, the mediodorsal thalamic-prefrontal cortical network is activated during successful encoding and retrieval of associations, which suggests a role of this system in recall and recollection. The activity of the anterior thalamic-temporal network selectively during retrieval predicts better memory performances across subjects and this confirms the paramount role of this network in recall and recollection.
A central question for cognitive neuroscience is whether there is a single neural system controlling the allocation of attention. A dorsal frontoparietal network of brain regions is often proposed as a mediator of top-down attention to all sensory inputs. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging in humans to show that the cortical networks supporting top-down attention are in fact modality-specific, with distinct superior fronto-parietal and fronto-temporal networks for visuospatial and non-spatial auditory attention respectively. In contrast, parts of the right middle and inferior frontal gyri showed a common response to attentional control regardless of modality, providing evidence that the amodal component of attention is restricted to the anterior cortex.
Food labeling is the major health policy strategy to counter rising obesity rates. Based on traditional economic theory, such strategies assume that detailed nutritional information will necessarily help individuals make better, healthier choices. However, in contrast to the well-known utility of labels in food marketing, evidence for the efficacy of nutritional labeling is mixed. Psychological and behavioral economic theories suggest that successful marketing strategies activate automatic decision biases and emotions, which involve implicit emotional brain systems. Accordingly, simple, intuitive food labels that engage these neural systems could represent a promising approach for promoting healthier choices. Here we used functional MRI to investigate this possibility. Healthy, mildly hungry subjects performed a food evaluation task and a food choice task. The main experimental manipulation was to pair identical foods with simple labels that emphasized either taste benefits or health-related food properties. We found that such labels biased food evaluations in the amygdala, a core emotional brain system. When labels biased the amygdala's evaluations towards health-related food properties, the strength of this bias predicted behavioral shifts towards healthier choices. At the time of decision-making, amygdala activity encoded key decision variables, potentially reflecting active amygdala participation in food choice. Our findings underscore the potential utility of food labeling in health policy and indicate a principal role for emotional brain systems when labels guide food choices.
Expertly collected, well-curated data sets consisting of comprehensive clinical characterization and raw structural, functional and diffusion-weighted DICOM images in schizophrenia patients and sex and age-matched controls are now accessible to the scientific community through an on-line data repository (coins.mrn.org). The Mental Illness and Neuroscience Discovery Institute, now the Mind Research Network (MRN, http://www.mrn.org/ ), comprised of investigators at the University of New Mexico, the University of Minnesota, Massachusetts General Hospital, and the University of Iowa, conducted a cross-sectional study to identify quantitative neuroimaging biomarkers of schizophrenia. Data acquisition across multiple sites permitted the integration and cross-validation of clinical, cognitive, morphometric, and functional neuroimaging results gathered from unique samples of schizophrenia patients and controls using a common protocol across sites. Particular effort was made to recruit patients early in the course of their illness, at the onset of their symptoms. There is a relatively even sampling of illness duration in chronic patients. This data repository will be useful to 1) scientists who can study schizophrenia by further analysis of this cohort and/or by pooling with other data; 2) computer scientists and software algorithm developers for testing and validating novel registration, segmentation, and other analysis software; and 3) educators in the fields of neuroimaging, medical image analysis and medical imaging informatics who need exemplar data sets for courses and workshops. Sharing provides the opportunity for independent replication of already published results from this data set and novel exploration. This manuscript describes the inclusion/exclusion criteria, imaging parameters and other information that will assist those wishing to use this data repository.
In the past years, mass univariate statistical analyses of neuroimaging data have been complemented by the use of multivariate pattern analyses, especially based on machine learning models. While these allow an increased sensitivity for the detection of spatially distributed effects compared to univariate techniques, they lack an established and accessible software framework. The goal of this work was to build a toolbox comprising all the necessary functionalities for multivariate analyses of neuroimaging data, based on machine learning models. The &quot;Pattern Recognition for Neuroimaging Toolbox&quot; (PRoNTo) is open-source, cross-platform, MATLAB-based and SPM compatible, therefore being suitable for both cognitive and clinical neuroscience research. In addition, it is designed to facilitate novel contributions from developers, aiming to improve the interaction between the neuroimaging and machine learning communities. Here, we introduce PRoNTo by presenting examples of possible research questions that can be addressed with the machine learning framework implemented in PRoNTo, and cannot be easily investigated with mass univariate statistical analysis.
Real-time functional magnetic resonance imaging (rt-fMRI) has recently gained interest as a possible means to facilitate the learning of certain behaviors. However, rt-fMRI is limited by processing speed and available software, and continued development is needed for rt-fMRI to progress further and become feasible for clinical use. In this work, we present an open-source rt-fMRI system for biofeedback powered by a novel Graphics Processing Unit (GPU) accelerated motion correction strategy as part of the BioImage Suite project ( www.bioimagesuite.org ). Our system contributes to the development of rt-fMRI by presenting a motion correction algorithm that provides an estimate of motion with essentially no processing delay as well as a modular rt-fMRI system design. Using empirical data from rt-fMRI scans, we assessed the quality of motion correction in this new system. The present algorithm performed comparably to standard (non real-time) offline methods and outperformed other real-time methods based on zero order interpolation of motion parameters. The modular approach to the rt-fMRI system allows the system to be flexible to the experiment and feedback design, a valuable feature for many applications. We illustrate the flexibility of the system by describing several of our ongoing studies. Our hope is that continuing development of open-source rt-fMRI algorithms and software will make this new technology more accessible and adaptable, and will thereby accelerate its application in the clinical and cognitive neurosciences.


A 43-year-old man presented with the symptoms of recurrent lower abdominal pain, malaise and loss of appetite of 3-week duration, followed by acute onset of generalized paresthesias, fever and headache which progressed over few days to quadriparesis, altered sensorium, urinary and fecal incontinence. He had consumed raw tongue, liver, gall bladder and testicles of monitor lizard (Varanus bengalensis). Blood picture showed eosinophilia and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analysis revealed elevated protein and eosinophilia. Serum and CSF serology was positive for angiostrongyliasis. Magnetic resonance imaging showed focal hyperintense lesions in the corpus callosum and brainstem and an enhancing lesion in the cerebellum. Post-contrast T1-weighted axial images of spine showed evidence of cervical cord hyperintense lesions and root enhancement. Susceptibility weighted images/phase images showed unusual feature of multiple hemorrhagic lesions in the posterior fossa and supratentorial areas. Diffusion showed no restriction of corpus callosal lesions. Patient was treated with the high dose parenteral steroids with albendazole and at 6-month follow-up and had a remarkable recovery.



Deep brain stimulation (DBS) is a major advancement in the field of functional neurosurgery in the last century. This treatment option is now utilized for many hyperkinetic and hypokinetic movement disorders and certain disorders in the field of psychiatry. The basis of treatment is a by-product of excellent advancement made in the field of basic neuroscience and technology. Due to the improvement in the field of neuroimaging, brain structures are now better localized leading to a better outcome. Newer sites of stimulations are being recognized, which may further improve the clinical outcome in patients. However, it is very important to stick to stringent inclusion and exclusion criteria while selecting patients for DBS to get the best results.

The optimal conversion ratio between Dysport and Botox--the two botulinum neurotoxin type A products (BoNT-As) supported by the larger bulk of evidence-has been extensively debated, because of its broad medical and economic implications. The article discusses the available evidence on the conversion ratio between Dysport and Botox in adults affected by spasticity, cervical dystonia, blepharospasm and hemifacial spasm, with a focus on clinical trials that specifically addressed this issue. In addition, some suggestions on the conversion ratio between Dysport and Xeomin can be extrapolated, since Xeomin has the same efficacy and safety profile as Botox and is exchangeable with Botox with a 1:1 conversion ratio. Taken together, the findings retrieved from this literature research suggest that a conversion ratio of 3:1 (Dysport:Botox)--or even lower--can be considered appropriate for the treatment of the above-mentioned conditions. Higher conversion ratios may lead to an overdosing of Dysport, with a potential increased incidence of adverse events. Therefore, we recommend that physicians using both products consider using a lower conversion factor as a guide, adjusting it upwards as required based on the specific characteristics and response to treatment of each patient.


Corticosteroid hormones, released after stress, are known to change neuronal activity in two time-domains: within minutes via non-genomic pathways and with a delay of &gt;1 h through pathways involving transcriptional regulation. Recent evidence in rodents and humans indicates that these two modes of corticosteroid action differently affect cognitive tasks. Here, we investigated whether reward-based decision-making, in a rat model of the Iowa Gambling Task (rIGT), is also differently altered by rapid versus delayed actions of corticosterone. We targeted the rapid and delayed time domain by injecting corticosterone (CORT, 1 mg/kg, s.c.) at 30 min (rapid) or 180 min (delayed) respectively prior to behavioural testing, during the final 3 days of the behavioural paradigm. In saline treated rats, the number of visits to the disadvantageous arm decreased over trial blocks, whilst this was attenuated when CORT was administered 30 min before testing. This attenuation was associated with a significantly increased c-Fos expression in the lateral orbitofrontal cortex and insular cortex, and a trend for an increase in the infralimbic cortex. The rapid corticosteroid effect contrasted with treatment 180 min before testing, where the number of visits to the disadvantageous arm as well as c-Fos labelling was not affected. These findings indicate that rapid corticosteroid actions impair reward-based decision-making.
Major depression is a common psychiatric disorder associated with high symptomatic and functional burdens. Pharmacological treatment is often effective, but there remain substantial unmet needs in the form of non-responders, delayed onset of clinical effect, and side effects. Recent studies have positioned the serotonin 5-HT receptor as a new target for the treatment of depression. Preclinical studies have shown that antagonists induce an antidepressant-like response, a phenotype that can also be observed in mice lacking the receptor. Lurasidone is a new atypical antipsychotic agent with very high affinity for the 5-HT receptor. Patients in clinical trials have reported improved scores in depression ratings. We have tested lurasidone in both acute and chronic mouse models of depression. In the tail suspension and forced swim tests lurasidone decreased immobility, an antidepressant-like response. The effect required functional 5-HT receptors as it was absent in mice lacking the receptor. In the repeated open-space swim test lurasidone was able to reverse the despair induced by repeated swims in a manner similar to the commonly used antidepressant citalopram. The results provide evidence that lurasidone can act as a 5-HT receptor antagonist and provide a possible explanation for the antidepressant effect data currently emerging from lurasidone clinical trials. Additionally, the results give further support for targeting the 5-HT receptor in the treatment of depression. It will be of interest to clinically evaluate lurasidone as an antidepressant either as monotherapy or as an adjunctive therapy to available drugs.
Epigenetic changes such as covalent modifications of histone proteins represent complex molecular signatures that provide a cellular memory of previously experienced stimuli without irreversible changes of the genetic code. In this study we show that new gene expression induced in vivo by morphine withdrawal occurs with concomitant epigenetic modifications in brain regions critically involved in drug-dependent behaviors. We found that naloxone-precipitated withdrawal, but not chronic morphine administration, caused a strong induction of phospho-histone H3 immunoreactivity in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) shell/core and in the lateral septum (LS), a change that was accompanied by augmented H3 acetylation (lys14) in neurons of the NAc shell. Morphine withdrawal induced the phosphorylation of the epigenetic factor methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 (MeCP2) in Ser421 both in the LS and the NAc shell. These epigenetic changes were accompanied by the activation of members of the ERK pathway as well as increased expression of the immediate early genes (IEG) c-fos and activity-regulated cytoskeleton-associated protein (Arc/Arg3.1). Using a pharmacological approach, we found that H3 phosphorylation and IEG expression were partially dependent on ERK activation, while MeCP2 phosphorylation was fully ERK-independent. These findings provide new important information on the role of the ERK pathway in the regulation of epigenetic marks and gene expression that may concur to regulate in vivo the cellular changes underlying the onset of the opioid withdrawal syndrome.
Normal aging may limit the signaling efficacy of certain GPCRs by disturbing the function of specific G-subunits and leading to deficient modulation of intracellular functions that subserve synaptic plasticity, learning and memory. Evidence suggests that Gq/ is more sensitive to the effects of aging relative to other G-subunits, including Go. To test this hypothesis, the functionality of Gq/ and Go were compared in the hippocampus of young (6 months) and aged (24 months) F344  BNF hybrid rats assessed for spatial learning ability. Basal GTPS-binding to Gq/ was significantly elevated in aged rats relative to young and but not reliably associated with spatial learning. mAChR stimulation of Gq/ with oxotremorine-M produced equivocal GTPS-binding between age groups although values tended to be lower in the aged hippocampus and were inversely related to basal activity. Downstream Gq/ function was measured in hippocampal subregion CA by determining changes in [Ca(2+)]i after mAChR and mGluR (DHPG) stimulation. mAChR-stimulated peak change in [Ca(2+)]i was lower in aged CA relative to young while mGluR-mediated integrated [Ca(2+)]i responses tended to be larger in aged. GPCR modulation of [Ca(2+)]i was observed to depend on intracellular stores to a greater degree in aged than young. In contrast, measures of Go-mediated GTPS-binding were stable across age, including basal, mAChR-, GABABR (baclofen)-stimulated levels. Overall, the data indicate that aging selectively modulates the activity of Gq/ within the hippocampus leading to deficient modulation of [Ca(2+)]i following stimulation of mAChRs but these changes are not related to spatial learning.
Current medications for major depression suffer from numerous limitations. Once the right drug for treatment has been determined, it still takes several weeks for it to take effect and improve mood. This time lag is a serious concern for the healthcare community when dealing with patients with suicidal thoughts. However, recent clinical studies have shown that a single low-dose injection of ketamine, an N-methyl D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) antagonist, has rapid antidepressant effects that are observed within hours and are long lasting. Although major depression affects twice as many women as men, all studies examining the rapid antidepressant effects of ketamine have focused on male subjects. Thus, we have investigated the behavioral and molecular effects of ketamine in both male and female rats and demonstrated greater sensitivity in female rats at a low dose of ketamine, a dose does not have antidepressant-like effects in male rats. The antidepressant-like effects of this low dose of ketamine were completely abolished when female rats were ovariectomized (OVX), and restored when physiological levels of estrogen and progesterone were supplemented, suggesting a critical role for gonadal hormones in enhancing the antidepressant-like effects of ketamine in female rats. In preclinical studies, the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) in the medial prefrontal cortex and the eukaryotic elongation factor (eEF2) in the hippocampus have been proposed as critical mediators of ketamine's rapid antidepressant actions. In our hands, the increased sensitivity of female rats to a low dose of ketamine was not mediated through phosphorylation of mTOR or eEF2.
Spatial language helps us to encode relations between objects and organize our thinking. Little is known about the neural instantiations of spatial language. Using voxel-lesion symptom mapping (VLSM), we tested the hypothesis that focal brain injured patients who had damage to left frontal-parietal peri-Sylvian regions would have difficulty in naming spatial relations between objects. We also investigated the relationship between impaired verbalization of spatial relations and spontaneous gesture production. Patients with left or right hemisphere damage and elderly control participants were asked to name static (e.g., an apple on a book) and dynamic (e.g., a pen moves over a box) locative relations depicted in brief video clips. The correct use of prepositions in each task and gestures that represent the spatial relations were coded. Damage to the left posterior middle frontal gyrus, the left inferior frontal gyrus, and the left anterior superior temporal gyrus were related to impairment in naming spatial relations. Production of spatial gestures negatively correlated with naming accuracy, suggesting that gestures might help or compensate for difficulty with lexical access. Additional analyses suggested that left hemisphere patients who had damage to the left posterior middle frontal gyrus and the left inferior frontal gyrus gestured less than expected, if gestures are used to compensate for impairments in retrieving prepositions.
Prior phonological processing can enhance subsequent picture naming performance in individuals with aphasia, yet the neurocognitive mechanisms underlying this effect and its longevity are unknown. This study used functional magnetic resonance imaging to examine the short-term (within minutes) and long-term (within days) facilitation effects from a phonological task in both participants with aphasia and age-matched controls. Results for control participants suggested that long-term facilitation of subsequent picture naming may be driven by a strengthening of semantic-phonological connections, while semantic and object recognition mechanisms underlie more short-term effects. All participants with aphasia significantly improved in naming accuracy following both short- and long-term facilitation. A descriptive comparison of the neuroimaging results identified different patterns of activation for each individual with aphasia. The exclusive engagement of a left hemisphere phonological network underlying facilitation was not revealed. The findings suggest that improved naming in aphasia with phonological tasks may be supported by changes in right hemisphere activity in some individuals and reveal the potential contribution of the cerebellum to improved naming following phonological facilitation. Conclusions must be interpreted with caution, however, due to the comparison of corrected group control results to that of individual participants with aphasia, which were not corrected for multiple comparisons.
Patients with visual extinction following right-hemisphere damage sometimes see and sometimes miss stimuli in the left visual field, particularly when stimuli are presented simultaneously to both visual fields. Awareness of left visual field stimuli is associated with increased activity in bilateral parietal and frontal cortex. However, it is unknown why patients see or miss these stimuli. Previous neuroimaging studies in healthy adults show that prestimulus activity biases perceptual decisions, and biases in visual perception can be attributed to fluctuations in prestimulus activity in task relevant brain regions. Here, we used functional MRI to investigate whether prestimulus activity affected perception in the context of visual extinction following stroke. We measured prestimulus activity in stimulus-responsive cortical areas during an extinction paradigm in a patient with unilateral right parietal damage and visual extinction. This allowed us to compare prestimulus activity on physically identical bilateral trials that either did or did not lead to visual extinction. We found significantly increased activity prior to stimulus presentation in two areas that were also activated by visual stimulation: the left calcarine sulcus and right occipital inferior cortex. Using dynamic causal modelling (DCM) we found that both these differences in prestimulus activity and stimulus evoked responses could be explained by enhanced effective connectivity within and between visual areas, prior to stimulus presentation. Thus, we provide evidence for the idea that differences in ongoing neural activity in visually responsive areas prior to stimulus onset affect awareness in visual extinction, and that these differences are mediated by fluctuations in extrinsic and intrinsic connectivity.
Accelerated Long-term Forgetting (ALF) is the rapid loss of newly acquired memories over days to weeks despite normal retention at standard (~30 min) intervals. It has recently been described in association with epilepsy, particularly the syndrome of Transient Epileptic Amnesia (TEA). The cognitive mechanisms underlying ALF remain uncertain, but disruption either of memory acquisition or consolidation processes has been postulated. To arbitrate between these accounts, we reanalysed data from an existing word-list recall data set to investigate whether ALF can be observed for words learned under precisely matched conditions in TEA patients and controls. We reanalysed the data of 24 patients with TEA and 24 matched healthy controls who learnt a 15-item word list to a learning criterion of 90% with a minimum of five learning trials. Free recall of the words was probed at delays of 30 min and 1 week and 3 weeks after learning. In addition, a 'yes-no' recognition test was conducted after the 3-week free recall. Forgetting rates across the first 30 min delay and the subsequent 1 week and 3 week delay were compared between patients and controls. To ensure that learning conditions were closely matched between patients and control participants, we excluded exceptionally fast (N(TEA)=1, N(controls)=4) and slow (N(TEA)=6, N(controls)=2) learners. Furthermore, we analysed only words that were presented five or six times during learning and retrieved successfully on four or five occasions during learning. Recall performance on the last learning trial and 30 min after acquisition were indistinguishable between TEA patients and controls. Over the delay interval of 30 min to 1 week, however, accelerated forgetting of this newly learned verbal material was observed in TEA patients. This severe forgetting is also reflected in the three-week recognition test, where TEA patients performed significantly worse than controls. Moreover, whereas recall on the last learning trial correlated significantly with the 30 min delayed recall in both groups, recall on the last learning trial correlated significantly with 1 week and 3 week delayed recall only in the controls. In both groups, the three-week free recall performance correlated with the three-week recognition test. Patients with TEA demonstrate ALF even for verbal material that is learned under precisely matched conditions. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that ALF represents a disruption of memory consolidation rather than an acquisition deficit.
Human decision-making is significantly modulated by previously experienced outcomes. Using event-related potentials (ERPs), we examined whether ERP components evoked by outcome feedbacks could serve as biomarkers to signal the influence of current outcome evaluation on subsequent decision-making. In this study, 18 adult volunteers participated in a simple monetary gambling task, in which they were asked to choose between two options that differed in risk. Their decisions were immediately followed by outcome presentation. Temporospatial principle component analysis (PCA) was applied to the outcome-onset locked ERPs in the 200-1000 ms time window. The PCA factors that approximated classical ERP components (P2, feedback-related negativity, P3a, and P3b) in terms of time course and scalp distribution were tested for their association with subsequent decision-making strategies. Our results revealed that a fronto-central PCA factor approximating the classical P3a was related to changes of decision-making strategies on subsequent trials. The decision to switch between high- and low-risk options resulted in a larger P3a relative to the decision to retain the same choice. According to the results, we suggest that the amplitude of the fronto-central P3a is an electrophysiological index of the influence of current outcome on subsequent risk decision-making. Furthermore, the ERP source analysis indicated that the activations of the frontopolar cortex and sensorimotor cortex were involved in subsequent changes of strategies, which enriches our understanding of the neural mechanisms of adjusting decision-making strategies based on previous experience.
Early visual cortex activity is influenced by both bottom-up and top-down factors. To investigate the influences of bottom-up (saliency) and top-down (task) factors on different stages of visual processing, we used transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) of areas V1/V2 to induce visual suppression at varying temporal intervals. Subjects were asked to detect and discriminate the color or the orientation of briefly-presented small lines that varied on color saliency based on color contrast with the surround. Regardless of task, color saliency modulated the magnitude of TMS-induced visual suppression, especially at earlier temporal processing intervals that reflect the feedforward stage of visual processing in V1/V2. In a second experiment we found that our color saliency effects were also influenced by an inherent advantage of the color red relative to other hues and that color discrimination difficulty did not affect visual suppression. These results support the notion that early visual processing is stimulus driven and that feedforward and feedback processing encode different types of information about visual scenes. They further suggest that certain hues can be prioritized over others within our visual systems by being more robustly represented during early temporal processing intervals.
The vestibular system has widespread interactions with multisensory cortical networks, including the somatosensory areas. Several clinical observations suggested that vestibular signals are essential to compute more abstract cognitive representations of the body. However, the existing literature is generally based on isolated reports. We aimed to provide both a theoretical framework, and an experimental method to investigate potential vestibular contributions to somatic cognition. Accordingly, we have investigated effects of galvanic vestibular stimulation (GVS) on the localisation of a stimulus on the skin of the hand (a process that we define as somatoperception) and on the implicit representation of the hand size and shape (involving a different process which we define as somatorepresentation). Vestibular input influenced the localisation of tactile stimuli on the hand: touches on the dorsum of the hand were perceived as shifted toward the wrist. The specific polarity of vestibular stimulation influences the localisation errors. Right anodal and left cathodal, which influences both cerebral hemispheres, induced a stronger localisation bias compared to left anodal and right cathodal GVS, which influences primarily the right hemisphere. Although our data confirmed previous findings that the body model of the shape of the hand is massively distorted, vestibular inputs do not contribute to these distortions. Our results suggest that vestibular input influences the registration of somatosensory input onto a map of the body (somatoperception), but does not influence stored knowledge about the spatial organisation of the body as a physical object (somatorepresentation).


Previous studies have demonstrated that nitric oxide (NO) synthase inhibitors are as efficacious as tricyclic antidepressants in preclinical antidepressant screening procedures and in attenuating behavioural deficits associated with animal models of depression. The N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDA-R) complex gates Ca(2+), which interacts with calmodulin to subsequently activate NO synthase. We hypothesised that uncoupling neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) from the NMDA-R through the scaffolding protein postsynaptic density protein 95 (PSD-95) would produce behavioural antidepressant effects similar to NO synthase inhibitors. Small-molecule inhibitors of the PSD-95/nNOS interaction, IC87201 (0.01-2mg/kg) and ZL006 (10mg/kg) were tested for antidepressant properties in tests of antidepressant activity namely the tail suspension and forced swim tests in mice. We now report that IC87201 and ZL006 produce antidepressant-like responses in the forced swimming test (FST) and tail suspension test (TST) following a single administration in mice. By contrast to the tricyclic antidepressant imipramine (25mg/kg), the effects are not observed 1h following drug administration but are apparent 24 and 72h later. Furthermore prior exposure to the TST or FST is required in order to observe the antidepressant-related activity. Similar delayed and sustained antidepressant-like effects were observed following TRIM (50mg/kg) and ketamine (30mg/kg) in the TST. The antidepressant-like effects of ZL006 also generalise to IC87201 in the TST. IC87201 was devoid of effects on locomotor activity and step-through latency in the passive avoidance cognition test. These data support the hypothesis that targeting the PSD-95/nNOS interaction downstream of NMDA-R produces antidepressant effects and may represent a novel class of therapeutics for major depressive disorders.
Adolescence is a period of high sensitivity to drugs and rewards, characterized by the immaturity of decision-making abilities. A chronic stimulation of reward systems during this period might constitute a factor of vulnerability to the development of psychiatric disorders. However, the long-term consequences of such an exposure have seldom been explored. Here, we investigate at the adult age the effects of chronic dopamine (DA) stimulation during adolescence on both the maturation of DA systems and the cognitive processes underlying goal-directed actions. We first demonstrate that chronic stimulation of D2 receptors by quinpirole during adolescence alters the development of DA systems. This treatment has particularly prominent effects on the mesocortical DA pathway where it decreases DA fibers density, DA concentration, and DA receptors expression. Furthermore, we show that quinpirole-treated rats exhibit specific impairments in instrumental goal-directed behavior, as they fail to adapt their action when action-outcome relationships change in a contingency degradation procedure. These results therefore highlight the vulnerability of DA system and prefrontal areas to prolonged stimulation during adolescence, and its potential long-term impact on cognitive functions.
Subjects routinely control the vigor with which they emit motoric responses. However, the bulk of formal treatments of decision-making ignores this dimension of choice. A recent theoretical study suggested that action vigor should be influenced by experienced average reward rate and that this rate is encoded by tonic dopamine in the brain. We previously examined how average reward rate modulates vigor as exemplified by response times and found a measure of agreement with the first suggestion. In the current study, we examined the second suggestion, namely the potential influence of dopamine signaling on vigor. Ninety healthy subjects participated in a double-blind experiment in which they received one of the following: placebo, L-DOPA (which increases dopamine levels in the brain), or citalopram (which has a selective, if complex, effect on serotonin levels). Subjects performed multiple trials of a rewarded odd-ball discrimination task in which we varied the potential reward over time in order to exercise the putative link between vigor and average reward rate. Replicating our previous findings, we found that a significant fraction of the variance in subjects' responses could be explained by our experimentally manipulated changes in average reward rate. Crucially, this relationship was significantly stronger under L-Dopa than under Placebo, suggesting that the impact of average reward levels on action vigor is indeed subject to a dopaminergic influence.
Social experiences during youth are thought to be critical for proper social and cognitive development. Conversely, social insults during development can cause long-lasting behavioral impairments and increase the vulnerability for psychopathology later in life. To investigate the importance of social experience during the juvenile and early adolescent stage for the development of cognitive control capacities, rats were socially isolated from postnatal day 21 to 42 followed by re-socialization until they reached adulthood. Subsequently, two behavioral dimensions of impulsivity (impulsive action in the five-choice serial reaction time task (5-CSRTT) and impulsive choice in the delayed reward task) and decision making (in the rat gambling task) were assessed. In a separate group of animals, long-lasting cellular and synaptic changes in adult medial prefrontal cortex (PFC) pyramidal neurons were determined following social isolation. Juvenile and early adolescent social isolation resulted in impairments in impulsive action and decision making under novel or challenging circumstances. Moreover, socially isolated rats had a reduced response to enhancement of dopaminergic neurotransmission (using amphetamine or GBR12909) in the 5-CSRTT under challenging conditions. Impulsive choice was not affected by social isolation. These behavioral deficits were accompanied by a loss of sensitivity to dopamine of pyramidal neurons in the medial PFC. Our data show long-lasting deleterious effects of early social isolation on cognitive control and its neural substrates. Alterations in prefrontal cognitive control mechanisms may contribute to the enhanced risk for psychiatric disorders induced by aberrations in the early social environment.
We have previously shown that impulsivity in rats predicts the emergence of compulsive cocaine seeking and taking, and is coupled to decreased D2/3 receptor availability in the ventral striatum. As withdrawal from cocaine normalises high impulsivity in rats, we investigated, using positron emission tomography (PET), the effects of response-contingent cocaine administration on D2/3 receptor availability in the striatum. Rats were screened for impulsive behavior on the five-choice serial reaction time task. After a baseline PET scan with the D2/3 ligand [(18)F]fallypride, rats were trained to self-administer cocaine for 15 days under a long-access schedule. As a follow-up, rats were assessed for impulsivity and underwent a second [(18)F]fallypride PET scan. At baseline, we found that D2/3 receptor availability was significantly lower in the left, but not right, ventral striatum of high-impulsive rats compared with low-impulsive rats. While the number of self-administered cocaine infusions was not different between the two impulsivity groups, impulsivity selectively decreased in high-impulsive rats withdrawn from cocaine. This effect was accompanied by a significant increase in D2/3 receptor availability in the left, but not right, ventral striatum. We further report that D2/3 receptor availability was inversely related to baseline D2/3 receptor availability in the ventral striatum of high-impulsive rats, as well as to the left and right dorsal striatum of both low-impulsive and high-impulsive rats. These findings indicate that the reduction in impulsivity in high-impulsive rats by prior cocaine exposure may be mediated by a selective correction of deficient D2/3 receptor availability in the ventral striatum. A similar baseline-dependent mechanism may account for the therapeutic effects of stimulant drugs in clinical disorders such as ADHD.

In the present manuscript we review a substantial body of literature describing several pre-clinical animal models designed and developed with the purpose of investigating the biological determinants of Tourette syndrome (TS). In order to map the animal models onto the theoretical background upon which they have been devised, we first define phenomenological and etiological aspects of TS and then match this information to the available pre-clinical models. Thus, we first describe the characteristic symptoms exhibited by TS patients and then a series of hypotheses attempting to identify the multifactorial causes of TS. With respect to the former, we detail the phenomenology of abnormal repetitive behaviors (tics and stereotypies), obsessive-compulsive behaviors and aberrant sensory-motor gating. With respect to the latter, we describe both potential candidate vulnerability genes and environmental factors (difficult pregnancies, psychosocial stressors and infections). We then discuss how this evidence has been translated in pre-clinical research with respect to both dependent (symptoms) and independent (etiological factors) variables. Thus, while, on the one hand, we detail the methodologies adopted to measure abnormal repetitive and obsessive-compulsive behaviors, and sensory-motor gating, on the other hand, we describe genetic engineering studies and environmental modulations aimed at reproducing the proposed biological determinants in laboratory rodents. A special emphasis is placed upon &quot;programming&quot; events, occurring during critical stages of early development and exerting organizational delayed consequences. In the final section, we outline a heuristic model with the purpose of integrating clinical and pre-clinical evidence in the study of TS.
Since the first analysis of the Drosophila courtship song more than 50 years ago, the molecular and neural mechanisms underlying the acoustic communication between fruit flies has been studied extensively. The results of recent studies utilizing a wide array of genetic tools provide novel insights into the anatomic and functional characteristics of the auditory and other mechanosensory systems in the fruit fly. Johnston's hearing organ, the antennal ear of the fruit fly, serves as a complex sensor not only for near-field sound but also for gravity and wind. These auditory and non-auditory signals travel in parallel from the fly ear to the brain, feeding into neural pathways similar to the auditory and vestibular pathways of the human brain. This review discusses these recent findings and outlines auditory neuroscience in flies.
Different sectors of the prefrontal cortex have distinct neuronal connections with higher-order sensory areas and/or limbic structures and are related to diverse aspects of cognitive functions, such as visual working memory and reward-based decision-making. Recent studies have revealed that the prefrontal cortex (PF), especially the lateral PF, is also involved in motor control. Hence, different sectors of the PF may contribute to motor behaviors with distinct body parts. To test this hypothesis anatomically, we examined the patterns of multisynaptic projections from the PF to regions of the primary motor cortex (MI) that represent the arm, hand, and mouth, using retrograde transsynaptic transport of rabies virus. Four days after rabies injections into the hand or mouth region, particularly dense neuron labeling was observed in the ventrolateral PF, including the convexity part of ventral area 46. After the rabies injections into the mouth region, another dense cluster of labeled neurons was seen in the orbitofrontal cortex (area 13). By contrast, rabies labeling of PF neurons was rather sparse in the arm-injection cases. The present results suggest that the PF-MI multisynaptic projections may be organized such that the MI hand and mouth regions preferentially receive cognitive information for execution of elaborate motor actions.
We examined the distribution patterns of human -amyloid (1-40) peptide labeled with iodine 125 ((125)I-A40) after injections into the cerebral ventricle or tail vein of rats. In rats receiving an intravenous injection, the radioactive concentration of (125)I-A40 in the nasal area was similar to other extracranial organs. In contrast, the caudal part of the nasal area in rats receiving an intracerebroventricular injection displayed a high level of (125)I-A40 radioactivity. These results suggest that A reaches the nasal cavity from the brain via a non-blood pathway.
Every sensory event elicits activity in a broad population of cells that is distributed within and across cortical areas. How these neurons function together to represent the sensory environment is a major question in systems neuroscience. A number of proposals have been made, and recent advances in multi-neuronal recording have begun to allow researchers to test the predictions of these population-coding theories. In this review, I provide an introduction to some of the key concepts in population coding and describe several studies in the recent literature. The focus of this review is on sensory representation in the visual cortex and related perceptual decisions. The frameworks used to study population coding include population vectors, linear decoders, and Bayesian inference. Simple examples are provided to illustrate these concepts. Testing theories of population coding is an emerging subject in systems neuroscience, but advances in multi-neuronal recording and analysis suggest that an understanding is within reach.







Arteriovenous malformations (AVMs) of the orbit are rare and are thought to be congenital. They can grow slowly or in a delayed fashion after a prolonged period of quiescence if there is a hemodynamic balance between the in-flow and the out-flow vessels. However, once the balance is destroyed, orbital AVMs may cause acute visual deterioration. We report a 17-year-old male with orbital AVM, and discuss the mechanism and the management of acute visual deterioration in this setting. Angiography revealed an orbital AVM with obvious drainage obstruction and serious orbital congestion, due to the disruption of the balance. He had no vision improvement although treated successfully with radical transarterial embolization. The worsening of drainage obstruction could alter the hemodynamic flow and lead to acute visual deterioration. Early and exact diagnosis and complete transarterial embolization therapy are important before the hemodynamic imbalance.
We describe a patient who underwent intracranial angioplasty and Solitaire stent placement for recanalization of a vertebrobasilar artery occlusion 2 months after symptom onset. Computed tomography angiography and digital subtraction angiography showed that both vertebral arteries and the proximal basilar artery were occluded. Balloon angioplasty was performed on a segment of the occluded left vertebral artery and basilar artery, followed by successful detachment of one Solitaire stent. Repeat angiography showed near normal patency of the left vertebrobasilar artery. The patient`s symptoms improved significantly, and postoperative transcranial Doppler sonography 3 months later showed no evidence of in-stent restenosis.
A 5-month-old child, previously healthy, was hospitalized with frequent episodes of tonic seizures. The seizures were controlled with antiepileptic medication. However, the parents did not continue medications after discharge from the hospital. The child was admitted several times with breakthrough seizures. Over time the seizures became refractory to treatment. Neurometabolic work up and imaging studies for uncontrolled seizures revealed non-accidental head injury (shaken baby syndrome) as the underlying cause. His first EEG was normal and changed from normal to an epileptic encephalopathy pattern during his several admissions for uncontrolled seizures. From a normal child at the first admission, the child was severely regressed at the last admission. The present paper highlights the evolution of EEG changes in a child with non-accidental head injuries. This report also highlights considering non-accidental head injury as the underlying cause in younger children presenting with unexplained epileptic encephalopathy.





Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is considered an epidemic that continues to compromise the welfare of humankind. Despite the extensive efforts invested in countering this clinical health problem, current clinical science and technology still fall short of providing a pharmacological cure for TBI rendering tens of thousands of TBI patients vulnerable to its detrimental sequelae. Over the past 30 years, the understanding of the pathophysiological mechanisms of TBI indicates that the pathology of TBI is biphasic. It comprises 2 injuries; the primary and the secondary injuries. The primary injury occurs simultaneously with the impact that caused the injury, which explains why this injury is not amenable to acute intervention. Whereas the secondary injury is a composite of interwoven pathophysiological responses that commence after the initial trauma leading to delayed, non-mechanical impairment of neuronal structure and function. In this review, we aim to highlight the main pathophysiological mechanisms that take place in the primary and secondary phases of traumatic brain injury.
Drug-induced Parkinsonism must always be suspected when parkinsonian symptom like rigidity, tremor, or postural instability appear in patients receiving drug treatment. Indeed, drug-induced Parkinsonism is a frequent etiology of secondary Parkinsonism. The main causative drugs are antipsychotic, other neuroleptic drugs, and calcium-channel entry blockers. The risk associated with antipsychotics is often dose dependent and related to dopamine D2 striatal occupancy. The risk is less for the second-generation atypical antipsychotic. The other treatments rarely involved are antidepressants, antivirals, anti-arrhythmics, lithium, valproic acid, and others. Regression of symptom will be observed in most cases after a mean delay of 3 months after cessation of treatment. In one-tenth of cases, symptoms persist after drug withdrawal leading to the diagnosis of underlined idiopathic Parkinson`s disease.

Management of intracranial pressure in neurocritical care remains a potentially valuable target for improvements in therapy and patient outcomes. Surrogate markers of increased intracranial pressure, invasive monitors, and standard therapy, as well as promising new approaches to improve cerebral compliance are discussed, and a current review of the literature addressing this metric in neuroscience critical care is provided.
Minimally invasive surgical (MIS) approaches are gaining popularity in many surgical fields. Potential advantages include reduced blood loss, shorter length of stay, and less soft-tissue trauma. Potential disadvantages include inadequate deformity correction, increased fluoroscopy, longer operative times, and decreased posterolateral fusion surface area exposure. This video demonstrates the key steps in our mini-open transforaminal lumbar interbody fusion (TLIF) using an expandable tubular retractor, placement of cannulated pedicle instrumentation, and subsequent deformity correction. The video demonstrates positioning, surgical opening through a midline incision, a bilateral Wiltse plane tubular approach for the TLIF, placement of bilateral cannulated pedicle screws, and deformity correction. The video can be found here: http://youtu.be/Jj7w4i2DTMQ.
Minimally invasive surgical (MIS) approaches are gaining popularity in many surgical fields. Potential advantages include reduced blood loss, shorter length of stay, and less soft-tissue trauma. Potential disadvantages include inadequate deformity correction, increased fluoroscopy, longer operative times, and decreased posterolateral fusion surface area exposure. This video demonstrates the key steps in our mini-open transforaminal lumbar interbody fusion (TLIF) using an expandable tubular retractor, placement of cannulated pedicle instrumentation, and subsequent deformity correction. The video demonstrates positioning, surgical opening through a midline incision, a bilateral Wiltse plane tubular approach for the TLIF, placement of bilateral cannulated pedicle screws, and deformity correction. The video can be found here: http://youtu.be/Fpccr4MlLMU.
Synovial cysts are uncommon pathological entities in patients with cervical degenerative spinal disease, and there are only a few reports in the literature. Treatment typically involves decompression; however, biomechanical data indicate that laminectomies in the cervical spine also result in cervical instability, specifically within the cervicothoracic junction, supporting the use of fusion as well. The authors describe the use of fusion with decompression in the treatment of 3 patients with cervicothoracic synovial cysts that presented in an acute fashion with associated myelopathy and neurological decline, and they review the diagnostic elements, histopathology, and treatment of these cysts. All 3 of the patients did well with decompression via a posterior approach with a single-level instrumented fusion from C-7 to T-1. Each patient regained complete neurological function and had no residual neurological deficits. These results are promising, although the sample size of 3 cases is too small to make any conclusive evaluations. Future studies incorporating Class I and Class II data are imperative to make firm conclusions regarding general management of this rare entity.


In times of fiscal and political uncertainty, philanthropy has become an increasingly important mechanism for building, maintaining, and expanding neurosurgical research programs. Although philanthropy has historically helped launch many hospital systems, scientists and clinicians have generally relied on government grants and industry investment to support research and program infrastructure. However, competition for funds from all sources has increased at the same time as the pipelines for those funds have eroded. Philanthropy can provide salary support to allow neurosurgeons to pursue research and, ultimately, advance the field to improve outcomes for patients. Funds raised can fill financial gaps to recruit and pay for needed research staff, equipment, and facilities. To foster charitable giving, institutions can develop both a culture and processes to promote and support philanthropy. Furthermore, it is essential to ensure that donor relationships are properly nurtured with ongoing stewardship. In addition to cultivating grateful patients, there are numerous creative models of fundraising for research that can be explored, including venture philanthropy, in which voluntary health organizations or individuals partner with academia and industry to invest in early-stage drug development and other innovations. Other approaches include formation of nonprofit foundations and partnerships with other entities to work jointly on shared development goals.

Using resting state (RS) functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and diffusion tensor imaging (DTI), we identified the predictors of clinical improvement following constraint-induced movement therapy (CIMT) in pediatric patients with chronic hemiplegia.From 14 children with congenital or acquired brain injury and 10 sex- and age-matched healthy controls, brain dual-echo, DTI and RS fMRI sequences were acquired before CIMT. The Quality of Upper Extremities Skills Test and the Gross Motor Function Measure (GMFM) were administered at baseline, at the end of CIMT (10 weeks), and after 6 months. Mean diffusivity and fractional anisotropy (FA) were measured in the lesion responsible for the clinical symptomatology, the affected and unaffected corticospinal tract (CST), motor transcallosal fibers, and uncinate fasciculus (as an internal control). Independent component analysis was used to identify the sensorimotor RS network. The ability of baseline MRI variables to predict clinical changes over time was assessed using multivariate linear models. At baseline, patients had increased mean diffusivity in the symptomatic lesion and decreased FA in the symptomatic lesion, affected corticospinal tract, and motor transcallosal fibers. A reduced RS functional connectivity was found in the bilateral cerebellum, left precentral gyrus, and right secondary sensorimotor cortex. At follow up, Quality of Upper Extremities Skills Test and GMFM scales improved significantly. Baseline average lesion FA predicted clinical improvement at week 10, and baseline functional connectivity of the right secondary sensorimotor cortex and cerebellum predicted GMFM improvement at month 6. DTI and RS fMRI offer promising and objective markers to predict clinical outcomes following CIMT in pediatric patients with congenital or acquired hemiplegia.
The central nervous system has been considered off-limits to antibody therapeutics. However, recent advances in preclinical and clinical drug development suggest that antibodies can cross the blood-brain barrier in limited quantities and act centrally to mediate their effects. In particular, immunotherapy for Alzheimer's disease has shown that targeting beta amyloid with antibodies can reduce pathology in both mouse models and the human brain, with strong evidence supporting a central mechanism of action. These findings have fueled substantial efforts to raise antibodies against other central nervous system targets, particularly neurodegenerative targets, such as tau, beta-secretase, and alpha-synuclein. Nevertheless, it is also apparent that antibody penetration across the blood-brain barrier is limited, with an estimated 0.1-0.2 % of circulating antibodies found in brain at steady-state concentrations. Thus, technologies designed to improve antibody uptake in brain are receiving increased attention and are likely going to represent the future of antibody therapy for neurologic diseases, if proven safe and effective. Herein we review briefly the progress and limitations of traditional antibody drug development for neurodegenerative diseases, with a focus on passive immunotherapy. We also take a more in-depth look at new technologies for improved delivery of antibodies to the brain.
Protein misfolding and aggregation in the brain have been recognized to be crucial in the pathogenesis of various neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, and the polyglutamine (polyQ) diseases, which are collectively called the &quot;protein misfolding diseases&quot;. In the polyQ diseases, an abnormally expanded polyQ stretch in the responsible proteins causes the proteins to misfold and aggregate, eventually resulting in neurodegeneration. Hypothesizing that polyQ protein misfolding and aggregation could be inhibited by molecules specifically binding to the expanded polyQ stretch, we identified polyQ binding peptide 1 (QBP1). We show that QBP1 does, indeed, inhibit misfolding and aggregation of the expanded polyQ protein in vitro. Furthermore overexpression of QBP1 by the crossing of transgenic animals inhibits neurodegeneration in Drosophila models of the polyQ diseases. We also introduce our attempts to deliver QBP1 into the brain by administration using viral vectors and protein transduction domains. Interestingly, recent data suggest that QBP1 can also inhibit the misfolding/aggregation of proteins responsible for other protein misfolding diseases, highlighting the potential of QBP1 as a general therapeutic molecule for a wide range of neurodegenerative diseases. We hope that in the near future, aggregation inhibitor-based drugs will be developed and bring relief to patients suffering from these currently intractable protein misfolding diseases.
Recent data indicate that both availability and consumption of synthetic and natural psychoactive substances, marketed under the name of &quot;legal highs&quot;, has increased. Among them, the aminoalkylindole-derivative JWH-018 is widely distributed due to its capability of binding the cannabinoid receptors CB1 and CB2 thereby mimicking the effects of classical drug agonists. To address whether the behavioral effects of the synthetic compound JWH-018 are similar to those induced by classical cannabinoid agonists, we investigated, in outbred CD1 mice, the consequences of its acute and sub-chronic administration (0, 0.03, 0.1, or 0.3mg/kg, IP) at the level of body temperature, pain perception, general locomotion, and anxiety. In order to address whether the exposure to precocious stressors-modified individual reactivity to this psychoactive substance, we also investigated its effects in adult mice previously exposed to prenatal stress in the form of corticosterone supplementation in the maternal drinking water (33 or 100mg/L). In the absence of major effects on motor coordination, JWH-018-reduced body temperature, locomotion and pain reactivity, and increased indices of anxiety. Prenatal corticosterone administration-reduced individual sensitivity to the effects of JWH-018 administration in all the aforementioned parameters. This altered response is not due to variations in JWH-018 metabolism. Present data support the hypothesis that precocious stress may affect, in the long-term, the functional status, and reactivity of the endocannabinoid system.
The spinal cord is composed of distinct neuronal groups with well-defined anatomic connections. In some transgenic (Tg) models of Alzheimer's disease (AD), amyloid plaques develop in this structure, although the underlying cellular mechanism remains elusive. We attempted to explore the origin, evolution, and modulation of spinal -amyloid (A) deposition using Tg mice harboring five familiar AD-related mutations (5XFAD) as an experiential model. Dystrophic neuritic elements with enhanced -secretase-1 (BACE1) immunoreactivity (IR) appeared as early as 2months of age, and increased with age up to 12months examined in this study, mostly over the ventral horn (VH). Extracellular A IR emerged and developed during this same period, site-specifically co-existing with BACE1-labeled neurites often in the vicinity of large VH neurons that expressed the mutant human APP. The BACE1-labeled neurites almost invariably colocalized with -amyloid precursor protein (APP) and synaptophysin, and frequently with the vesicular glutamate transporter-1 (VGLUT). Reduced IR for the neuronal-specific nuclear antigen (NeuN) occurred in the VH by 12months of age. In 8-month-old animals surviving 6months after a unilateral sciatic nerve transection, there were significant increases of A, BACE1, and VGLUT IR in the VN of the ipsilateral relative to contralateral lumbar spinal segments. These results suggest that extracellular A deposition in 5XFAD mouse spinal cord relates to a progressive and amyloidogenic synaptic pathology largely involving presynaptic axon terminals from projection neurons in the brain. Spinal neuritic plaque formation is enhanced after peripheral axotomy, suggesting a retrograde transneuronal modulation on pathogenesis.
PCBs have long been known to affect dopamine (DA) function in the brain. The current study used an amphetamine behavioral sensitization paradigm in rats developmentally exposed to PCBs. Long-Evans rats were given perinatal exposure to 0, 3, or 6mg/kg/day PCBs and behavioral sensitization to d-amphetamine (AMPH) was assessed in one adult male and female/litter. Non-exposed (control) males showed increasing locomotor activity to repeated injections of 0.5mg/kg AMPH, typical of behavioral sensitization. PCB-exposed males showed greater activation to the initial acute AMPH injection, but sensitization occurred later and was blunted relative to controls. Sensitization in control females took longer to develop than in the males, but no exposure-related differences were observed. Analysis of whole brain and serum AMPH content following a final IP injection of 0.5mg/kg revealed no differences among the exposure groups. Overall, these results indicated developmental PCB exposure can alter the motor-stimulating effects of repeated AMPH injections. Males developmentally exposed to PCBs appeared to be pre-sensitized to AMPH, but quickly showed behavioral tolerance to the same drug dose. Results also revealed the behavioral effect was not due to exposure-induced alterations in AMPH metabolism following PCB exposure.
Chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy (CIPN) is a serious, painful and dose-limiting side effect of cancer drugs that target microtubules. The mechanisms underlying the neuronal damage are unknown, but may include disruption of fast axonal transport, an essential microtubule-based process that moves cellular components over long distances between neuronal cell bodies and nerve terminals. This idea is supported by the &quot;dying back&quot; pattern of degeneration observed in CIPN, and by the selective vulnerability of sensory neurons bearing the longest axonal projections. In this study, we test the hypothesis that microtubule-targeting drugs disrupt fast axonal transport using vesicle motility assays in isolated squid axoplasm and a cell-free microtubule gliding assay with defined components. We compare four clinically-used drugs, eribulin, vincristine, paclitaxel and ixabepilone. Of these, eribulin is associated with a relatively low incidence of severe neuropathy, while vincristine has a relatively high incidence. In vesicle motility assays, we found that all four drugs inhibited anterograde (conventional kinesin-dependent) fast axonal transport, with the potency being vincristine=ixabepilone&gt;paclitaxel=eribulin. Interestingly, eribulin and paclitaxel did not inhibit retrograde (cytoplasmic dynein-dependent) fast axonal transport, in contrast to vincristine and ixabepilone. Similarly, vincristine and ixabepilone both exerted significant inhibitory effects in an in vitro microtubule gliding assay consisting of recombinant kinesin (kinesin-1) and microtubules composed of purified bovine brain tubulin, whereas paclitaxel and eribulin had negligible effects. Our results suggest that (i) inhibition of microtubule-based fast axonal transport may be a significant contributor to neurotoxicity induced by microtubule-targeting drugs, and (ii) that individual microtubule-targeting drugs affect fast axonal transport through different mechanisms.
Hypothalamic tuberoinfundibular dopamine (TIDA) neurons remain unaffected in Parkinson disease (PD) while there is significant degeneration of midbrain nigrostriatal dopamine (NSDA) neurons. A similar pattern of susceptibility is observed following acute exposure to the neurotoxicant 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP), and the resistance of TIDA neurons to MPTP is associated with increased expression of parkin and ubiquitin carboxy-terminal hydrolase L-1 (UCHL-1). In the present study, the response of TIDA and NSDA neurons to acute MPTP administration following chronic MPTP exposure was examined. Mice were treated with ten injections of either MPTP (20mg/kg; s.c.; every 3.5 days) or saline vehicle (10 ml/kg; s.c.; every 3.5 days). Following a 21 day recovery period, chronic saline- and MPTP-treated mice received an additional injection of either saline (10 ml/kg; s.c.) or MPTP (20mg/kg; s.c.) and were sacrificed 24h later. NSDA neurons displayed significant axon terminal degeneration (as reflected by decreases in DA, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and DA transporter concentrations in the striatum) as well as loss of TH-immunoreactive (IR) neurons in the substantia nigra (SN) following MPTP, whereas TIDA neurons revealed no overt axon terminal pathology or loss of TH-IR cell bodies. NSDA neuronal pathology was associated with transient decreases in concentrations of parkin and UCHL-1 protein in the SN, which returned to normal levels by 21 days following cessation of chronic neurotoxicant exposure. Resistance of TIDA neurons to MPTP toxicity was correlated with a transient increase in UCHL-1 and a sustained elevation in parkin in the arcuate nucleus. TIDA neurons represent a DA neuron population with a unique and inherent ability to adapt to acute and chronic toxicant administration with a sustained elevation of the neuroprotective protein parkin. The correlation between the ability to increase parkin and UCHL-1 expression and the resistance of DA neurons to neurotoxicant exposure is consistent with a functional link between these features and an underlying differential susceptibility to toxicant-associated neurodegeneration.
-Agatoxin-IVA is a well known P/Q-type Ca(2+) channel blocker and has been shown to affect presynaptic Ca(2+) currents as well postsynaptic potentials. P/Q-type voltage gated Ca(2+) channels play a vital role in presynaptic neurotransmitter release and thus play a role in action potential generation. Monitoring spontaneous activity of neuronal networks on microelectrode arrays (MEAs) provides an important tool for examining this neurotoxin. Changes in extracellular action potentials are readily observed and are dependent on synaptic function. Given the efficacy of murine frontal cortex and spinal cord networks to detect neuroactive substances, we investigated the effects of -agatoxin on spontaneous action potential firing within these networks. We found that networks derived from spinal cord are more sensitive to the toxin than those from frontal cortex; a concentration of only 10nM produced statistically significant effects on activity from spinal cord networks whereas 50 nM was required to alter activity in frontal cortex networks. Furthermore, the effects of the toxin on frontal cortex are more complex as unit specific responses were observed. These manifested as either a decrease or increase in action potential firing rate which could be statistically separated as unique clusters. Administration of bicuculline, a GABAA inhibitor, isolated a single response to -agatoxin, which was characterized by a reduction in network activity. These data support the notion that the two clusters detected with -agatoxin exposure represent differential responses from excitatory and inhibitory neuronal populations.

Glucocorticoid (GC) signaling synchronizes the circadian rhythm of individual peripheral cells and induces the expression of circadian genes, including Period1 (Per1) and Period2 (Per2). However, no GC response element (GRE) has been reported in the Per2 promoter region. Here we report the molecular mechanisms of Per2 induction by GC signaling and its relevance to the regulation of circadian timing. We found that GC prominently induced Per2 expression and delayed the circadian phase. The overlapping GRE and E-box (GE2) region in the proximal Per2 promoter was responsible for GC-mediated Per2 induction. The GRE in the Per2 promoter was unique in that brain and muscle ARNT-like protein-1 (BMAL1) was essential for GC-induced Per2 expression, whereas other GRE-containing promoters, such as Per1 and mouse mammary tumor virus, responded to dexamethasone in the absence of BMAL1. This specialized regulatory mechanism was mediated by BMAL1-dependent binding of the GC receptor to GRE in Per2 promoter. When Per2 induction was abrogated by the mutation of the GRE or E-box, the circadian oscillation phase failed to be delayed compared with that of the wild-type. Therefore, the current study demonstrates that the rapid Per2 induction mediated by GC is crucial for delaying the circadian rhythm.

Docosahexaenoic acid (DHA, 22:6n-3) is the principal omega-3 fatty acid in mammalian brain gray matter, and emerging preclinical evidence suggests that DHA has neurotrophic and neuroprotective properties. This study investigated relationships among DHA status, neurocognitive performance, and cortical metabolism measured with proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy (1H MRS) in healthy developing male children (aged 8-10 years, n = 38). Subjects were segregated into low-DHA (n = 19) and high-DHA (n = 19) status groups by a median split of erythrocyte DHA levels. Group differences in 1H MRS indices of cortical metabolism, including choline (Cho), creatine (Cr), glutamine + glutamate + -aminobutyric acid (Glx), myo-inositol (mI), and n-acetyl aspartate (NAA), were determined in the right and left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (R/L-DLPFC, BA9) and bilateral anterior cingulate cortex (ACC, BA32/33). Group differences in neurocognitive performance were evaluated with the Kaufman Brief Intelligence Test and identical-pairs version of the continuous performance task (CPT-IP). Subjects in the low-DHA group consumed fish less frequently (P = 0.02), had slower reaction times on the CPT-IP (P = 0.007), and exhibited lower mI (P = 0.007), NAA (P = 0.007), Cho (P = 0.009), and Cr (P = 0.01) concentrations in the ACC compared with the high-DHA group. There were no group differences in ACC Glx or any metabolite in the L-DLPFC and R-DLPFC. These data indicate that low-DHA status is associated with reduced indices of metabolic function in the ACC and slower reaction time during sustained attention in developing male children.

Roux en Y gastric bypass (RYGB) surgery is currently the most effective therapy employed to treat obesity and its associated complications. In addition to weight loss and resolution of metabolic syndromes, such as diabetes, the RYGB procedure has been reported to increase alcohol consumption in humans. Using an outbred rodent model, we demonstrate that RYGB increases postsurgical ethanol consumption, that this effect cannot be explained solely by postsurgical weight loss and that it is independent of presurgical body weight or dietary composition. Altered ethanol metabolism and postsurgical shifts in release of ghrelin were also unable to account for changes in alcohol intake. Further investigation of the potential physiological factors underlying this behavioral effect identified altered patterns of gene expression in brain regions associated with reward following RYGB surgery. These findings have important clinical implications as they demonstrate that RYGB surgery leads directly to increased alcohol intake in otherwise alcohol nonpreferring rat and induces neurobiological changes in brain circuits that mediate a variety of appetitive behaviors.


Little is documented in the literature as to the function of muscle fascia in nociception and pain. The aim of this study was to examine the distribution of presumptive nociceptive nerve fibers, to characterize fascial thin-fiber sensory receptors, and to examine the spinal projection of nociceptive input from the rat crural fascia (CF). Nerve fibers labeled with specific antibodies to calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) and peripherin were found to be densely distributed in the distal third of the CF. Thin-fiber receptors (A- and C-fibers) responding to pinching stimuli to the CF with sharpened watchmaker's forceps, identified in vivo with the teased fiber technique from the common peroneal nerve, exist in the CF. Forty-three percent of the mechano-responsive fascial C-fibers were polymodal receptors (nociceptors) responding to mechanical, chemical (bradykinin), and heat stimuli, whereas almost all A-fibers were responsive only to mechanical stimuli. Repetitive pinching stimulus to the CF induced c-Fos protein expression in the middle to medial part of superficial layers ie, laminae I-II of the spinal dorsal horn at segments L2 to L4, peaking at L3. These results clearly demonstrate the following: 1) peptidergic and non-peptidergic axons of unmyelinated C-fibers with nerve terminals are distributed in the CF; 2) peripheral afferents responding to noxious stimuli exist in the fascia, and 3) nociceptive information from the CF is mainly processed in the spinal dorsal horn at the segments L2 to L4. These results together indicate that the &quot;muscle fascia,&quot; a tissue often overlooked in pain research, can be an important source of nociception under normal conditions.
Preclinical assessment of pain has typically relied on measuring animal responses to evoked stimulation. Because of inherent limitations of these assays, there is a need to develop measures of animal pain/discomfort that are objective, not experimentally evoked, and mimic the human condition. Patients with chronic pain manifest a variety of co-morbidities, one of which is disturbances in sleep. We used electroencephalography to objectively assess 4 rat models of pain (inflammatory/complete Freund's adjuvant [CFA], neuropathic/chronic constriction injury [CCI], postoperative/skin incision, osteoarthritis/monosodium iodoacetate [MIA]) for the occurrence of sleep disturbances. Four different measures of slow-wave sleep (SWS) were examined: amplitude of 1- to 4-Hz waves, total time spent in SWS, time spent in SWS-1, and time spent in SWS-2. Bilateral injuries were more likely to induce a sleep disturbance than unilateral injuries in the CFA, CCI, and skin incision assays. Sleep disturbances occurred in the deeper stage of SWS, as the amplitude of 1- to 4-Hz waves and time spent in SWS-2 were significantly decreased in all models except the osteoarthritis model. Sleep disturbances lasted for approximately 3 to 14days, depending on the model, and were resolved despite continued hypersensitivity to evoked stimulation. Morphine, gabapentin, diclofenac, and ABT-102 (TRPV1 antagonist) all improved sleep in the bilateral CFA assay at doses that did not significantly alter SWS in uninjured rats. Preclinical assessment of compounds should follow the path of clinical studies and take into account diverse aspects of the &quot;pain condition.&quot; This would include evaluating nociceptive thresholds as well as other endpoints, such as cognition and sleep, that may be affected by the pathological state.
Central sensitization and dysregulation of peripheral substance P and neurokinin-1 receptor (NK-1R) signaling are associated with chronic abdominal pain in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and irritable bowel syndrome (IBS). Although positron emission tomography (PET) has demonstrated that patients with injury-related chronic pain have diminished NK-1R availability in the brain, it is unknown whether these deficits are present in IBD and IBS patients, who have etiologically distinct forms of non-injury-related chronic pain. This study's aim was to determine if patients with IBD or IBS exhibit deficits in brain expression of NK-1Rs relative to healthy controls (HCs), the extent to which expression patterns differ across patient populations, and if these patterns differentially relate to clinical parameters. PET with [(18)F]SPA-RQ was used to measure NK-1R availability by quantifying binding potential (BP) in the 3 groups. Exploratory correlation analyses were performed to detect associations between NK-1R BP and physical symptoms. Compared to HCs, IBD patients had NK-1R BP deficits across a widespread network of cortical and subcortical regions. IBS patients had similar, but less pronounced deficits. BP in a subset of these regions was robustly related to discrete clinical parameters in each patient population. Widespread deficits in NK-1R BP occur in IBD and, to a lesser extent, IBS; however, discrete clinical parameters relate to NK-1R BP in each patient population. This suggests that potential pharmacological interventions that target NK-1R signaling may be most effective for treating distinct symptoms in IBD and IBS.





Cultured bovine adrenal chromaffin cells (BCCs) are employed to study first messenger-specific signaling by cytokines and neurotransmitters occurring in the adrenal medulla following immune-related stress responses. Here, we show that the cytokine TNF-alpha, and the neuropeptide transmitter PACAP, acting through the TNFR2 and PAC1 receptors, activate distinct signaling pathways, with correspondingly distinct transcriptomic signatures in chromaffin cells. We have carried out a comprehensive integrated transcriptome analysis of TNF-alpha and PACAP gene regulation in BCCs using two microarray platforms to maximize transcript identification. Microarray data were validated using qRT-PCR. More than 90% of the transcripts up-regulated either by TNF-alpha or PACAP were specific to a single first messenger. The final list of transcripts induced by each first messenger was subjected to multiple algorithms to identify promoter/enhancer response elements for trans-acting factors whose activation could account for gene expression by either TNF-alpha or PACAP. Distinct groups of transcription factors potentially controlling the expression of TNF-alpha or PACAP-responsive genes were found: most of the genes up-regulated by TNF-alpha contained transcription factor binding sites for members of the Rel transcription factor family, suggesting TNF-alpha-TNFR2 signaling occurs mainly through the NF-KB signaling pathway. Surprisingly, EGR1 was predicted to be the primary transcription factor controlling PACAP-modulated genes, suggesting PACAP signaling to the nucleus occurs predominantly through ERK, rather than CREB activation. Comparison of TNFR2-dependent versus TNFR1-dependent gene induction, and EGR1-mediated transcriptional activation, may provide a pharmacological avenue to the unique pathways activated by the first messengers TNF-alpha and PACAP in neuronal and endocrine cells.

All Kv7 potassium channels require membrane phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate (PI(4,5)P2) for their normal function and hence can be physiologically regulated by neurotransmitters and hormones that stimulate phosphoinositide hydrolysis. Recent mutational analysis indicates that a cluster of basic residues in the proximal C-terminus (K354/K358/R360/K362) is crucial for PI(4,5)P2 activation of cardiac Kv7.1 channels. Since this cluster is largely conserved in all Kv7 subunits, we tested whether homologous residues are also required for activation of Kv7.2 (a subunit of neuronal M-channels). We found that the mutation Kv7.2 (R325A) (corresponding to R360 in Kv7.1) reduced Kv7.2 current amplitude by 60% (P&lt;0.02) without change in voltage sensitivity and reduced the sensitivity of Kv7.2 channels to dioctanoyl-phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate by eightfold (P&lt;0.001). Taking into account previous experiments (Zhang et al., Neuron 37:963-75, 2003) implicating Kv7.2 (H328), and since R325 and H328 are conserved in homologous positions in all other Kv7 channels, we suggest that this proximal C-terminal domain adjacent to the last transmembrane domain that contains R325 and H328 (in Kv7.2) might play a major role in the activation of all members of the Kv7 channel family by PI(4,5)P2.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is a worldwide phenomenon that affects all ages and socioeconomic classes and results in varying degrees of immediate and delayed motor, cognitive, and emotional deficiencies. A plethora of pharmacologic interventions that target recognized initiators and propagators of pathology are being investigated in an attempt to ameliorate secondary injury processes that follow primary injury. Diazoxide (DZ), a K(ATP) channel activator, has been shown to provide short- and long-term protective effects in a variety of in vitro and in vivo cerebral ischemia models. However, the effects of DZ on behavioral outcome following TBI have not been investigated. TBI was induced in male C57BL/6J mice by controlled cortical impact (CCI) and followed by intraperitoneal administration of either normal saline, dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO), or 2.5 mg/kg DZ in DMSO, 30 min post-injury and daily for three days. Open field and beam walk performances were used to assess motor and behavioral function 1, 7, and 14 days following injury. Spatial learning and memory were assessed three weeks following injury using the Morris water maze. Injured mice were significantly impaired on the beam-walk and Morris water maze tasks, and were hyperactive and anxious in an open field environment. On post-injury days 1 and 14, mice treated with DMSO exhibited an increase in the amount of time required to perform the beam walk task. In addition, animals exposed to DMSO or DZ+DMSO exhibited slower swimming speed in the Morris water maze on the final day of testing. There was no therapeutic effect, however, of the treatment or vehicle on open field behavior or learning and memory function in the Morris water maze. In summary, CCI produced significant long-term impairment of motor, memory, and behavioral performance measures, and DZ administration, under the conditions used, provided no functional benefits following injury.
A metabolite of the kynurenine pathway, kynurenic acid (KYNA) is an important endogenous neuromodulator and neuroprotector, that also exerts neurotropic effects following exogenous administration. In humans and animals, KYNA regulates affective and cognitive responses, acting mainly as an antagonist of glutamatergic receptors. However, the complete psychopharmacological profile of KYNA (which includes the activity of several neurotransmitter receptors) is poorly understood, and merit further studies. Aquatic models are rapidly emerging as useful tools in translational psychopharmacology research. Here, we exposed adult zebrafish (Danio rerio) to exogenous KYNA for 20 min, and assessed their behavior in the novel tank test. Exposure to KYNA (20 mg/L) in this paradigm evoked overt effects in fish, including decreased latency to enter the top half of the tank, increased number of top entries and longer top duration. In contrast, locomotor activity indices (swimming distance and velocity) were not affected by KYNA in this study. Overall, our results show KYNA has an anxiolytic-like pharmacological effect in zebrafish, and therefore strongly support the utility of zebrafish models in neurotropic drug screening, including drugs acting at central glutamatergic system. Robust phenotypic differences evoked by KYNA, revealed here using three-dimensional (3D) reconstructions of zebrafish locomotion in X, Y and time (Z) coordinates, confirm this notion, also demonstrating the value of 3D-based phenotyping approaches for high-throughput drug screening using zebrafish models.
Bipolar disorder (BD) is a debilitating psychiatric disease characterized by alternating episodes of mania and depression. Among mood stabilizers, lithium is the mainstay for the treatment of BD, with approximately one-third of patients showing remission from episode recurrence. While there is evidence suggesting genetic load for lithium response in BD, its molecular underpinnings are still not completely understood. To identify genes potentially involved in (or correlated with) lithium response, we carried out a genome-wide expression analysis on lymphoblastoid cell lines (LCLs) from 10 BD patients responders (R) and 10 non-responders (NR) to lithium. We compared expression levels of the two groups and tested whether in vitro lithium treatment had different effects in LCLs of R compared to NR. At basal, 2060 genes were differentially expressed between R and NR while no genes were differentially regulated by lithium in the two groups. After pathway analysis based on the 2060 genes, 9 genes were selected for validation with qRT-PCR. Eight genes were validated in the same sample of LCLs while only insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) was significantly over-expressed in R compared to NR in the same sample as well as in an independent sample comprised of 6 R and 6 NR (sample 1, fold change=1.94; p=0.005; sample 2, fold change=2.21; p=0.005). IGF-1 was also significantly over-expressed in R but not in NR when compared to a sample of non-psychiatric controls. Our findings suggest that IGF-1 may be involved in lithium response, supporting further investigation on its potential as a biomarker.
Spontaneous neural activity has been increasingly recognized as a subject of key relevance in neuroscience. It exhibits nontrivial spatiotemporal structure reflecting the organization of the underlying neural network and has proved to be closely intertwined with stimulus-induced activity patterns. As an additional contribution in this regard, we report computational studies that strongly suggest that a stimulus-free feature rules the behavior of an important psychophysical measure of the sensibility of a sensory system to a stimulus, the so-called dynamic range. Indeed in this paper we show that the entropy of the distribution of avalanche lifetimes (information efficiency, since it can be interpreted as the efficiency of the network seen as a communication channel) always accompanies the dynamic range in the benchmark model for sensory systems. Specifically, by simulating the Kinouchi-Copelli (KC) model on two broad families of model networks, we generically observed that both quantities always increase or decrease together as functions of the average branching ratio (the control parameter of the KC model) and that the information efficiency typically exhibits critical optimization jointly with the dynamic range (i.e., both quantities are optimized at the same value of that control parameter, that turns out to be the critical point of a nonequilibrium phase transition). In contrast with the practice of taking power laws to identify critical points in most studies describing measured neuronal avalanches, we rely on data collapses as more robust signatures of criticality to claim that critical optimization may happen even when the distribution of avalanche lifetimes is not a power law, as suggested by a recent experiment. Finally, we note that the entropy of the size distribution of avalanches (information capacity) does not always follow the dynamic range and the information efficiency when they are critically optimized, despite being more widely used than the latter to describe the computational capabilities of a neural network. This strongly suggests that dynamical rules allowing a proper temporal matching of the states of the interacting neurons is the key for achieving good performance in information processing, rather than increasing the number of available units.

Noisy waveforms, sampled from an episode of fictive locomotion (FL) and delivered to a dorsal root (DR), are a novel electrical stimulating protocol demonstrated as the most effective for generating the locomotor rhythm in the rat isolated spinal cord. The present study explored if stimulating protocols constructed by sampling real human locomotion could be equally efficient to activate these locomotor networks in vitro. This approach may extend the range of usable stimulation protocols and provide a wide palette of noisy waveforms for this purpose. To this end, recorded electromyogram (EMG) from leg muscles of walking adult volunteers provided a protocol named ReaListim (Real Locomotion-induced stimulation) that applied to a single DR successfully activated FL. The smoothed kinematic profile of the same gait failed to do so like nonphasic noisy patterns derived from standing and isometric contraction. Power spectrum analysis showed distinctive low-frequency domains in ReaListim, along with the high-frequency background noise. The current study indicates that limb EMG signals (recorded during human locomotion) applied to DR of the rat spinal cord are more effective than EMG traces taken during standing or isometric contraction of the same muscles to activate locomotor networks. Finally, EMGs recorded during various human motor tasks demonstrated that noisy waves of the same periodicity as ReaListim, could efficiently activate the in vitro central pattern generator (CPG), regardless of the motor task from which they had been sampled. These data outline new strategies to optimize functional stimulation of spinal networks after injury.
Modern medicine has progressed in parallel with the advancement of biochemistry, anatomy, and physiology. By using the tools of modern medicine, the physician today can treat and prevent a number of diseases through pharmacology, genetics, and physical interventions. Besides this materia medica, the patient's mind, cognitions, and emotions play a central part as well in any therapeutic outcome, as investigated by disciplines such as psychoneuroendocrinoimmunology. This review describes recent findings that give scientific evidence to the old tenet that patients must be both cured and cared for. In fact, we are today in a good position to investigate complex psychological factors, like placebo effects and the doctor-patient relationship, by using a physiological and neuroscientific approach. These intricate psychological factors can be approached through biochemistry, anatomy, and physiology, thus eliminating the old dichotomy between biology and psychology. This is both a biomedical and a philosophical enterprise that is changing the way we approach and interpret medicine and human biology. In the first case, curing the disease only is not sufficient, and care of the patient is of tantamount importance. In the second case, the philosophical debate about the mind-body interaction can find some important answers in the study of placebo effects. Therefore, maybe paradoxically, the placebo effect and the doctor-patient relationship can be approached by using the same biochemical, cellular and physiological tools of the materia medica, which represents an epochal transition from general concepts such as suggestibility and power of mind to a true physiology of the doctor-patient interaction.
Phosphoinositides (PIs) make up only a small fraction of cellular phospholipids, yet they control almost all aspects of a cell's life and death. These lipids gained tremendous research interest as plasma membrane signaling molecules when discovered in the 1970s and 1980s. Research in the last 15 years has added a wide range of biological processes regulated by PIs, turning these lipids into one of the most universal signaling entities in eukaryotic cells. PIs control organelle biology by regulating vesicular trafficking, but they also modulate lipid distribution and metabolism via their close relationship with lipid transfer proteins. PIs regulate ion channels, pumps, and transporters and control both endocytic and exocytic processes. The nuclear phosphoinositides have grown from being an epiphenomenon to a research area of its own. As expected from such pleiotropic regulators, derangements of phosphoinositide metabolism are responsible for a number of human diseases ranging from rare genetic disorders to the most common ones such as cancer, obesity, and diabetes. Moreover, it is increasingly evident that a number of infectious agents hijack the PI regulatory systems of host cells for their intracellular movements, replication, and assembly. As a result, PI converting enzymes began to be noticed by pharmaceutical companies as potential therapeutic targets. This review is an attempt to give an overview of this enormous research field focusing on major developments in diverse areas of basic science linked to cellular physiology and disease.
Research has shown that motor training after stroke should be task-oriented. It is still unknown whether the task-oriented approach is implemented into clinical practice. The purpose of the present study was to survey to which extent task-specific training was a part of conventional physiotherapy practice given to stroke patients after discharge from hospital. This cross-sectional survey was a sub-study of a randomized controlled trial. Physiotherapists treating patients included in the trial were asked to register their choice of treatment according to 11 predefined activity categories during the second week after discharge from hospital. Nineteen physiotherapists treating 46 patients suffering from mild-to-moderate stroke were included. The activities chosen in most patients were sit-to-stand (60.9%), balance in standing position (65.2%), walking on even ground (78.3%), and stair climbing (56.5%). Only two patients (4.3%) practiced transfers or balance related to activities of daily living (ADL), such as washing, dressing, and toileting. This study shows that conventional physiotherapy practice for a selected group of Norwegian stroke patients was mainly based on a task-oriented approach, although with very little emphasis on training in relation to ADL. Future research is needed to ensure that evidence-based treatment is given to all stroke patients.

It is increasingly clear that systemic inflammation has both adaptive and deleterious effects on the brain. However, detailed comparisons of brain effects of systemic challenges with different pro-inflammatory cytokines are lacking. In the present study, we challenged female C57BL/6 mice intraperitoneally with LPS (100 g/kg), IL-1 (15 or 50 g/kg), TNF- (50 or 250 g/kg) or IL-6 (50 or 125 g/kg). We investigated effects on core body temperature, open field activity and plasma levels of inflammatory markers at 2 hours post injection. We also examined levels of hepatic, hypothalamic and hippocampal inflammatory cytokine transcripts. Hypothermia and locomotor hypoactivity were induced by LPS&gt;IL-1&gt;TNF-&gt;IL-6. Systemic LPS, IL-1 and TNF- challenges induced robust and broadly similar systemic and central inflammation compared to IL-6, which showed limited effects, but did induce a hepatic acute phase response. Important exceptions included IFN, which could only be induced by LPS. Systemic IL-1 could not induce significant blood TNF-, but induced CNS TNF- mRNA, while systemic TNF- could induce IL-1 in blood and brain. Differences between IL-1 and TNF--induced hippocampal profiles, specifically for IL-6 and CXCL1 prompted a temporal analysis of systemic and central responses at 1, 2, 4, 8 and 24 hours, which revealed that IL-1 and TNF- both induced the chemokines CXCL1 and CCL2 but only IL-1 induced the pentraxin PTX3. Expression of COX-2, CXCL1 and CCL2, with nuclear localisation of the p65 subunit of NFB, in the cerebrovasculature was demonstrated by immunohistochemistry. Furthermore, we used cFOS immunohistochemistry to show that LPS, IL-1 and to a lesser degree, TNF- activated the central nucleus of the amygdala. Given the increasing attention in the clinical literautre on correlating specific systemic inflammatory mediators with neurological or neuropsychiatric conditions and complications, these data will provide a useful resource on the likely CNS inflammatory profiles resulting from systemic elevation of particular cytokines.


Prions are self-seeding alternate protein conformations. Most yeast prions contain glutamine/asparagine (Q/N)-rich domains that promote the formation of amyloid-like prion aggregates. Chaperones, including Hsp104 and Sis1, are required to continually break these aggregates into smaller &quot;seeds.&quot; Decreasing aggregate size and increasing the number of growing aggregate ends facilitates both aggregate transmission and growth. Our previous work showed that overexpression of 11 proteins with Q/N-rich domains facilitates the de novo aggregation of Sup35 into the [PSI(+)] prion, presumably by a cross-seeding mechanism. We now discuss our recent paper, in which we showed that overexpression of most of these same 11 Q/N-rich proteins, including Pin4C and Cyc8, destabilized pre-existing Q/N rich prions. Overexpression of both Pin4C and Cyc8 caused [PSI(+)] aggregates to enlarge. This is incompatible with a previously proposed &quot;capping&quot; model where the overexpressed Q/N-rich protein poisons, or &quot;caps,&quot; the growing aggregate ends. Rather the data match what is expected of a reduction in prion severing by chaperones. Indeed, while Pin4C overexpression does not alter chaperone levels, Pin4C aggregates sequester chaperones away from the prion aggregates. Cyc8 overexpression cures [PSI(+)] by inducing an increase in Hsp104 levels, as excess Hsp104 binds to [PSI(+)] aggregates in a way that blocks their shearing.
Mounting evidence indicates that immune activation and/or immuno-inflammatory reactions during neurodevelopment apparently contribute to the pathogenesis and progression of schizophrenia. One of the important environmental factors that is known to trigger immune activation/inflammatory responses during early pregnancy is prenatal infection. Recent understanding from animal studies suggests that prenatal infection induced maternal immune activation (MIA)/inflammation in congruence with oxidative/nitrosative stress can lead to neurodevelopmental damage and behavioral abnormalities in the offspring. Although the underlying precise mechanistic processes of MIA/inflammation are yet to be completely elucidated, it is being increasingly recognized that Toll-like receptors (TLRs) that form the first line of defense against invading microorganisms could participate in the prenatal infection induced immune insults. Interestingly, some of the TLRs, especially TLR3 and TLR4 that modulate neurodevelopment, neuronal survival and neuronal plasticity by regulating the neuro-immune cross-talk in the developing and adult brain could also be affected by prenatal infection. Importantly, sustained activation of TLR3/TLR4 due to environmental factors including infection and stress has been found to generate excessive reactive oxygen species (ROS)/reactive nitrogen species (RNS) as well as pro-inflammatory mediators during embryogenesis, which result into neuronal damage by necrosis/apoptosis. In recent times, ROS/RNS and immuno-inflammatory mediators are being increasingly linked to progressive brain changes in schizophrenia. Although a significant role of TLR3/TLR4 in neurodegeneration is gaining certainty, their importance in establishing a causal link between prenatal infection and immuno-inflammatory, oxidative and nitrosative stress (IO&amp;NS) responses and influence on adult presentation of schizophrenia is yet to be ascertained. We review here the current knowledge generated from the animal and human studies on the role of TLRs in schizophrenia and finally propose the &quot;TRIPS Hypothesis&quot; (Toll-like receptors in immuno-inflammatory pathogenesis) to elucidate the underlying mechanism(s) of TLR-mediated risk of schizophrenia. Considering the established role of TLR3 and TLR4 in antiviral and antibacterial responses respectively, we believe that in some cases of schizophrenia where IO&amp;NS responses are evident, prenatal infection might lead to neuroprogressive changes in a TLR3/TLR4-dependent way.
In daily life facial expressions change rapidly and the direction of change provides important clues about social interaction. The aim of conducting this study was to elucidate the dynamic happy facial expression processing with different social interaction cues in individuals with (n=14) and without (n=14) schizotypal personality disorder (SPD) traits. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), dynamic happy facial expression processing was examined by presenting video clips depicting happiness appearing and disappearing under happiness inducing ('praise') or reducing ('blame') interaction cues. The happiness appearing condition consistently elicited more brain activations than the happiness disappearing condition in the posterior cingulate bilaterally in all participants. Further analyses showed that the SPD group was less deactivated than the non-SPD group in the right anterior cingulate cortex in the happiness appearing-disappearing contrast. The SPD group deactivated more than the non-SPD group in the left posterior cingulate and right superior temporal gyrus in the praise-blame contrast. Moreover, the incongruence of cues and facial expression activated the frontal-thalamus-caudate-parietal network, which is involved in emotion recognition and conflict resolution. These results shed light on the neural basis of social interaction deficits in individuals with schizotypal personality traits.
Benztropine (BZT) analogs, a family of agents with high affinity for the dopamine transporter have been postulated as potential treatments in stimulant abuse due to their ability to attenuate a wide range of effects evoked by psychomotor stimulants such as cocaine and amphetamine (AMPH). Repeating administration of drugs, including stimulants, can result in behavioral sensitization, a progressive increase in their psychomotor activating effects. We examined in mice the sensitizing effects and the neuroplasticity changes elicited by chronic AMPH exposure, and the modulation of these effects by the BZT derivative and atypical dopamine uptake inhibitor, JHW007, a candidate medication for stimulant abuse. The results indicated that JHW007 did not produce sensitized locomotor activity when given alone but prevented the sensitized motor behavior induced by chronic AMPH administration. Morphological analysis of medium spiny neurons of the nucleus accumbens revealed that JHW 007 prevented the neuroadaptations induced by chronic AMPH exposure, including increments in dendritic arborization, lengthening of dendritic processes and increases in spine density. Furthermore, data revealed that AMPH produced an increase in the density of asymmetric, possibly glutamatergic synapses in the nucleus accumbens, an effect that was also blocked by JHW007 pretreatment. The present observations demonstrate that JHW007 is able to prevent not only AMPH-induced behavioral sensitization but also the long-term structural changes induced by chronic AMPH in the nucleus accumbens. Such findings support the development and evaluation of BZT derivatives as possible leads for treatment in stimulant addiction.
Stressors that are controllable not only protect an individual from the acute consequences of the stressor, but also the consequences of stressors that occur later. This phenomenon, termed &quot;behavioral immunization&quot;, is studied in the rat by first administering tailshocks each of which can be terminated (escapable tailshock) by an instrumental wheel-turn response prior to exposure to a second stressor. Previous research has shown that exposure to escapable tailshock blocks the neurochemical and behavioral consequences of later inescapable tailshock or social defeat stress. Here we explored the generality of behavioral immunization by examining the impact of prior escapable tailshock on the behavioral consequences of cold swim stress. Exposure to a 5min cold-water (19C) swim caused an anxiety-like reduction in social interaction that was dependent upon 5-HT2C receptor activation. Rats with prior exposure to escapable tailshock did not develop the swim-induced anxiety. Plasticity in the medial prefrontal cortex, a hypothetical neural mechanism underlying behavioral immunization, is discussed.
Previous studies have suggested that insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) is altered in schizophrenia. The objective of this study was to investigate whether plasma IGF-1 levels were altered at the onset of psychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia or bipolar disorder. We focused at the first psychotic episode (FPE) and during 1-year follow-up. We also studied if IGF-1 levels were related to clinical symptoms. 50 patients and 43 healthy controls matched by age, gender and educational level were selected from the Basque Country catchment area in Spain. Plasma IGF-1 levels were measured at FPE and 1 month, 6 months and one year later. Patient symptoms were assessed at the same disease stages using the Positive and Negative Symptoms Scale (PANSS), the Global Assessment of Functioning (GAF), the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HDRS21) and the Young Mania Rating Scale (YMRS). A statistically significant increase in the plasma levels of IGF-1 was found in the whole cohort of patients one month after FPE compared to matched controls (219.84 ng/ml vs 164.15 ng/ml; p=0.014), as well as in schizophrenia patients alone at that stage (237.60 ng/ml vs 171.60 ng/ml; p=0.039). In turn, negative symptoms in both groups of patients were positively correlated with IGF-1 levels both at FPE (=0.521; p&lt;0.001) and after 1 year (=0.659; p=0.001), being patients diagnosed with schizophrenia the main contributors to this relationship. These results indicate that there is a significant change in the plasma levels of IGF-1 at the initial stages of schizophrenia but not in bipolar disorder, and suggest that IGF-1 could have role in the pathophysiology of negative symptoms.
Maintaining attention for more than a few seconds is essential for mastering everyday life. Yet, our ability to stay focused on a particular task is limited, resulting in well-known performance decrements with increasing time on task. Intriguingly, such decrements are even more likely if the task is cognitively simple and repetitive. The attentional function that enables our prolonged engagement in intellectually unchallenging, uninteresting activities has been termed vigilant attention. Here we synthesized what we have learned from functional neuroimaging about the mechanisms of this essential mental faculty. To this end, a quantitative meta-analysis of pertinent neuroimaging studies was performed, including supplementary analyses of moderating factors. Furthermore, we reviewed the available evidence on neural time-on-task effects, additionally considering information obtained from patients with focal brain damage. Integrating the results of both meta-analysis and review, we identified a set of mainly right-lateralized brain regions that may form the core network subserving vigilant attention in humans, including dorsomedial, mid- and ventrolateral prefrontal cortex, anterior insula, parietal areas (intraparietal sulcus, temporoparietal junction), and subcortical structures (cerebellar vermis, thalamus, putamen, midbrain). We discuss the potential functional roles of different nodes of this network as well as implications of our findings for a theoretical account of vigilant attention. It is conjectured that sustaining attention is a multicomponent, nonunitary mental faculty, involving a mixture of (a) sustained/recurrent processes subserving task-set/arousal maintenance and (b) transient processes subserving the target-driven reorienting of attention. Finally, limitations of previous studies are considered and suggestions for future research are provided.


Binary choice tasks, such as 2-alternative forced choice, show a complex yet consistent pattern of sequential effects, whereby responses and response times depend on the detailed pattern of prior stimuli going back at least 5 trials. We show this pattern is well explained by simultaneous incremental learning of 2 simple statistics of the trial sequence: the base rate and the repetition rate. Both statistics are learned by the same basic associative mechanism, but they contribute different patterns of sequential effects because they entail different representations of the trial sequence. Subtler aspects of the data that are not explained by these 2 learning processes alone are explained by their interaction, via learning from joint error correction. Specifically, the cue-competition mechanism that has explained classic findings in animal learning (e.g., blocking) appears to operate on learning of sequence statistics. We also find that learning of the base rate and repetition rate are dissociated into response and stimulus processing, respectively, as indicated by event-related potentials, manipulations of stimulus discriminability, and reanalysis of past experiments that eliminated stimuli or prior responses. Thus, sequential effects in these tasks appear to be driven by learning the response base rate and the stimulus repetition rate. Connections are discussed between these findings and previous research attempting to separate stimulus- and response-based sequential effects, and research using sequential effects to determine mental representations. We conclude that sequential effects offer a powerful means for uncovering representations and learning mechanisms.
Branding has become one of the most important determinants of consumer choices. Intriguingly, the psychological mechanisms of how branding influences decision making remain elusive. In the research reported here, we used a preference-based decision-making task and computational modeling to identify which internal components of processing are affected by branding. We found that a process of noisy temporal integration of subjective value information can model preference-based choices reliably and that branding biases are explained by changes in the rate of the integration process itself. This result suggests that branding information and subjective preference are integrated into a single source of evidence in the decision-making process, thereby altering choice behavior.
Why do more intelligent people live healthier and longer lives? One possibility is that intelligence tests assess health of the brain, but psychological science has lacked technology to evaluate this hypothesis. Digital retinal imaging, a new, noninvasive method to visualize microcirculation in the eye, may reflect vascular conditions in the brain. We studied the association between retinal vessel caliber and neuropsychological functioning in the representative Dunedin birth cohort. Wider venular caliber was associated with poorer neuropsychological functioning at midlife, independently of potentially confounding factors. This association was not limited to any specific test domain and extended to informants' reports of cohort members' cognitive difficulties in everyday life. Moreover, wider venular caliber was associated with lower childhood IQ tested 25 years earlier. The findings indicate that retinal venular caliber may be an indicator of neuropsychological health years before the onset of dementing diseases and suggest that digital retinal imaging may be a useful investigative tool for psychological science.
Perceptual processing of a target stimulus may be inhibited if its location has just been cued, a phenomenon of spatial attention known as inhibition of return (IOR). In the research reported here, we demonstrated a striking effect, wherein items that have just been the focus of reflective attention (internal attention to an active representation) also are inhibited. Participants saw two items, followed by a cue to think back to (i.e., refresh, or direct reflective attention toward) one item, and then had to identify either the refreshed item, the unrefreshed item, or a novel item. Responses were significantly slower for refreshed items than for unrefreshed items, although refreshed items were better remembered on a later memory test. Control experiments in which we replaced the refresh event with a second presentation of one of the words did not show similar effects. These results suggest that reflective attention can produce an inhibition effect for attended items that may be analogous to IOR effects in perceptual attention.
Deficits in memory for everyday activities are common complaints among healthy and demented older adults. The medial temporal lobes and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex are both affected by aging and early-stage Alzheimer's disease, and are known to influence performance on laboratory memory tasks. We investigated whether the volume of these structures predicts everyday memory. Cognitively healthy older adults and older adults with mild Alzheimer's-type dementia watched movies of everyday activities and completed memory tests on the activities. Structural MRI was used to measure brain volume. Medial temporal but not prefrontal volume strongly predicted subsequent memory. Everyday memory depends on segmenting activity into discrete events during perception, and medial temporal volume partially accounted for the relationship between performance on the memory tests and performance on an event-segmentation task. The everyday-memory measures used in this study involve retrieval of episodic and semantic information as well as working memory updating. Thus, the current findings suggest that during perception, the medial temporal lobes support the construction of event representations that determine subsequent memory.
It is widely assumed that learning and memory processes play an important role in the pathogenesis, expression, maintenance and therapy of anxiety disorders, such as phobias or post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Memory retrieval is involved in symptom expression and maintenance of these disorders, while memory extinction is believed to be the underlying mechanism of behavioral exposure therapy of anxiety disorders. There is abundant evidence that stress and stress hormones can reduce memory retrieval of emotional information, whereas they enhance memory consolidation of extinction training. In this study we aimed at investigating if stress affects these memory processes in a fear conditioning paradigm in healthy human subjects. On day 1, fear memory was acquired through a standard differential fear conditioning procedure. On day 2 (24h after fear acquisition), participants either underwent a stressful cold pressor test (CPT) or a control condition, 20 min before memory retrieval testing and extinction training. Possible prolonged effects of the stress manipulation were investigated on day 3 (48 h after fear acquisition), when memory retrieval and extinction were tested again. On day 2, men in the stress group showed a robust cortisol response to stress and showed lower unconditioned stimulus (US) expectancy ratings than men in the control group. This reduction in fear memory retrieval was maintained on day 3. In women, who showed a significantly smaller cortisol response to stress than men, no stress effects on fear memory retrieval were observed. No group differences were observed with respect to extinction. In conclusion, the present study provides evidence that stress can reduce memory retrieval of conditioned fear in men. Our findings may contribute to the understanding of the effects of stress and glucocorticoids on fear symptoms in anxiety disorders and suggest that such effects may be sex-specific.
Abnormal basal activity and stress-evoked reactivity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis are often seen in depression, implicating HPA axis dysfunction as a potentially causative or exacerbating factor. Chronic stress is also a factor in depression, but it is not known what may underlie the shift from adaptive to maladaptive HPA activity over the course of chronic stress. Interleukin 6 (IL-6), a stress-inducible cytokine that signals through gp130 and IL-6R receptors to activate the JAK/STAT3 signaling cascade, is elevated in some subtypes of depression, and may have a modulatory effect on HPA activation, raising the possibility that IL-6 contributes to depression through effects on the HPA axis. In this study, we examined the effects of three different stress modalities, acute footshock, chronic intermittent cold (CIC) stress and chronic unpredictable stress (CUS) on IL-6 signaling in the hypothalamus. We also investigated whether IL-6 modulates the HPA response to chronic stress, by blocking IL-6 signaling in the brain during CIC stress using either a neutralizing antibody or an inhibitor of STAT3 phosphorylation. We show that IL-6 and STAT3 in the hypothalamus are activated in response to footshock and CUS. We also found that basal IL-6 signaling through the JAK/STAT3 pathway is required for the sustained CORT response to chronic, but not acute, cold stress and therefore is a potential determinant of plasticity in the HPA axis specifically during chronic stress exposure.
Environmental enrichment may protect against some of the adverse behavioural and biological effects of stressors. However, unlike the effects seen in some species, among male mice housed in groups, enrichment may alter social stability, encourage competition and aggression, and thus promote the establishment of a stressful environment. A potent psychosocial stressor such as social defeat in mice promotes brain neurochemical changes as well as pro-inflammatory cytokine variations in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and hippocampus. The present investigation demonstrated that enrichment in group-housed male mice, even in the relatively nonaggressive, although highly anxious BALB/cByJ strain encouraged the effects of a repeated social defeat stressor experienced 4 weeks later, especially with respect to corticosterone as well as hippocampal corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) and interleukin (IL)-6 variations. Moreover, within the hippocampus, enrichment itself was accompanied by modest reductions in the expression of the IL-1 receptor (IL-1r1). Thus, it seems that living in an enriched environment among group-housed male mice might promote a stressful environment that enhances basal hippocampal CRH and cytokine variations and increased vulnerability to further changes upon subsequent exposure to a social stressor.
Glucocorticoids, stress hormones released from the adrenal cortex, are important players in the regulation of emotional memory. Specifically, in animals and in humans, glucocorticoids enhance memory consolidation of emotionally arousing experiences, but impair memory retrieval. These glucocorticoid actions are partly mediated by glucocorticoid receptors in the hippocampus, amygdala and prefrontal cortex, key brain regions for emotional memory. In a recent study in patients who underwent cardiac surgery, the BclI polymorphism of the glucocorticoid receptor gene (NR3C1) was associated with traumatic memories and posttraumatic stress disorder symptoms after intensive care therapy. Based on this finding, we investigated if the BclI polymorphism is also associated with emotional memory in healthy young subjects (N=841). We used a picture-learning task consisting of learning and recalling neutral and emotional photographs on two consecutive days. The BclI variant was associated with short-delay recall of emotional pictures on both days, with GG carriers showing increased emotional memory performance as compared to GC and CC carriers. We did not detect a genotype-dependent difference in recall performance for neutral pictures. These findings suggest that the Bcll polymorphism contributes to inter-individual differences in emotional memory also in healthy humans.






To make a decision may rely on accumulating evidence in favor of one alternative until a threshold is reached. Sequential-sampling models differ by the way of accumulating evidence and the link with action implementation. Here, we tested a model's prediction of an early action implementation specific to potential actions. We assessed the dynamics of action implementation in go/no-go and between-hand choice tasks by transcranial magnetic stimulation of the motor cortex (single- or paired-pulse TMS; 3-ms interstimulus interval). Prior to implementation of the selected action, the amplitude of the motor evoked potential first increased whatever the visual stimulus but only for the hand potentially involved in the to-be-produced action. These findings suggest that visual stimuli can trigger an early motor activation specific to potential actions, consistent with race-like models with continuous transmission between decision making and action implementation.
Decades of research have demonstrated strong links between social ties and health. Although considerable evidence has shown that social support can attenuate downstream physiological stress responses that are relevant to health, the neurocognitive mechanisms that translate perceptions of social ties into altered physiological responses are still not fully understood. This review integrates research from social and affective neuroscience to illuminate some of the neural mechanisms involved in social support processes, which may further our understanding of the ways in which social support influences health. This review focuses on two types of social support that have been shown to relate to health: receiving and giving social support. As the neural basis of receiving support, this article reviews the hypothesis that receiving support may benefit health through the activation of neural regions that respond to safety and inhibit threat-related neural and physiological responding. This article will then review neuroimaging studies in which participants were primed with or received support during a negative experience as well as studies in which self-reports of perceived support were correlated with neural responses to a negative experience. As the neural basis of giving support, this article reviews the hypothesis that neural regions involved in maternal caregiving behavior may be critical for the health benefits of support-giving through the inhibition of threat-related neural and physiological responding. Neuroimaging studies in which participants provided support to others or engaged in other related forms of prosocial behavior will then be reviewed. Implications of these findings for furthering our understanding of the relationships between social support and health are discussed.

The aim was to design and validate a questionnaire pertaining to eating problems in individuals with normal intelligence, within the autism spectrum. The questionnaire was based on literature search and clinical experience. The validation focused on psychometric properties of reliability and validity using a clinical group of individuals with autism spectrum disorders (ASD) (n=57) and a matched, healthy comparison group (n=31). The instrument showed high levels of reliability, convergent and discriminant validity and scaling properties. Logistic regression analyses discerned the single item Simultaneous capacity and the subscale Social situation at mealtime as the best predictors of ASD. In conclusion, the questionnaire is valid and reliable to detect disturbed eating behaviours in individuals with ASD and normal intelligence.
In Williams syndrome (WS) cerebellar measures were only indirectly related to behavioral outcomes. T1-weighted magnetic resonance images and neuropsychological data were acquired to investigate whether cerebellar vermis differences were present in 12 WS individuals compared with 13 chronological age-matched controls and whether WS cerebellar vermis measures were related to cognitive scores. In WS participants, we observed a significant increase in the volume of the posterior superior cerebellar vermis (lobules VI-VII) and an atypical ratio between width and height of the cerebellar vermis. Furthermore, we found an inverse correlation between cerebellar posterior vermis volume and scores on implicit learning, phonological fluency and the verbal short-term memory tasks. The present study supported a role for the posterior cerebellar vermis in higher cognitive processes and indicated that the cerebellar vermis abnormalities (enlargement) in WS individuals have an effect in worsening the cognitive performance in specific domains.
Pulmonary structure and function change significantly between young adulthood and old age. Elastic elements of the lung degenerate, parenchymal tissue is lost, alveolar ducts and bronchioles dilate, chest wall compliance decreases, intercostal muscle mass and force are reduced and gas exchange surface lessens. Disturbances of innate immunity predispose the elderly to pulmonary inflammation. These changes affect pulmonary function tests and gas exchange, but adaptive changes in breathing frequency and tidal volume serve to maintain adequate ventilation. Aging depresses cough reflexes and ventilatory responsiveness to hypoxia and hypercapnia. Sleep-associated apnea and periodic breathing occur more frequently in the elderly, implying that neural feed back and feed-forward control (loop gain) are impaired. Low loop gain may contribute to sleep apnea but not to periodic breathing. A likely cause of age related pulmonary tissue degeneration and a future therapeutic target is defective protein folding in the endoplasmic reticulum. Nervous system adaptations that accompany structural and functional changes in the elderly are poorly understood.












Schizophrenia is a complex brain disorder associated with numerous etiological factors and pathophysiological pathways leading to multiple clinical outcomes. Compelling evidence suggests that deviations in neurodevelopmental processes are a major risk factor of schizophrenia. The identification of patients with high neurodevelopmental deviance is an important issue as it could help to identify homogeneous subgroups of patients with similar pathophysiological pathways, a key step to decipher the etiology of this complex condition. Several clinical arguments suggest that schizophrenia patients with Neurological Soft Signs (NSS)--ie, observable defects in motor coordination, motor integration, and sensory integration--would have high neurodevelopmental deviance. Based on the analysis of magnetic resonance imaging of 44 first-episode psychosis patients, we compared the cortex morphology, a marker of brain development, in patients with NSS vs patients with nonsignificant NSS. The cortex morphology was automatically assessed from three-dimensional global sulcal index (g-SI, the ratio between total sulcal area and outer cortex area) and regional sulcal indexes (r-SI, the ratio between the area of pooled labeled sulci and the total outer cortex area). Patients with NSS were found to have a lower g-SI in both hemispheres and a lower r-SI in left dorsolateral prefrontal and right lateral occipital cortices. Exploratory analyses revealed correlations between NSS dimensions and r-SI in distinct cortical areas, including dorsolateral and medial prefrontal cortices, lateral temporal, occipital, superior parietal, and medial parieto-occipital cortices. These findings provide evidence of distinct neurodevelopmental pathways in patients with NSS as compared with patients with nonsignificant NSS.
Psychotic disorders are associated with neurocognitive alterations that aggregate in unaffected family members, suggesting that genetic vulnerability to psychotic disorder impacts neurocognition. The aim of the present study was to investigate whether selected schizophrenia candidate single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) are associated with (1) neurocognitive functioning across populations at different genetic risk for psychosis (2) and psychotic disorder. The association between 152 SNPs in 43 candidate genes and a composite measure of neurocognitive functioning was examined in 718 patients with psychotic disorder. Follow-up analyses were carried out in 750 unaffected siblings and 389 healthy comparison subjects. In the patients, 13 associations between SNPs and cognitive functioning were significant at P &lt; .05, situated in DRD1, DRD3, SLC6A3, BDNF, FGF2, SLC18A2, FKBP5, and DNMT3B. Follow-up of these SNPs revealed a significant and directionally similar association for SLC18A2 (alternatively VMAT2) rs363227 in siblings (B = -0.13, P = .04) and a trend association in control subjects (B = -0.10, P = .12). This association was accompanied by a significantly increased risk for psychotic disorder associated with the T allele (linear OR = 1.51, 95% CI 1.10-2.07, P = .01), which was reduced when covarying for cognitive performance (OR = 1.29, 95% CI 0.92-1.81, P = .14), suggesting mediation. Genetic variation in VMAT2 may be linked to alterations in cognitive functioning underlying psychotic disorder, possibly through altered transport of monoamines into synaptic vesicles.

Deficits in social cognition are common in schizophrenia and predict poor community functioning. Given the current limitations of psychosocial treatments and the lack of pharmacological treatments for social cognitive deficits, the development of novel therapeutic agents could greatly enhance functional recovery in schizophrenia. This study evaluated whether a single dose of intranasal oxytocin acutely improves social cognitive functioning in schizophrenia. Twenty-three male veterans with schizophrenia completed baseline assessments of social cognition that were divided into lower-level (facial affect perception, social perception, detection of lies) and higher-level (detection of sarcasm and deception, empathy) processes. One week later, patients received the same battery after being randomized to a single dose of 40 IU intranasal oxytocin or placebo. Though the groups did not differ significantly on the social cognition composite score, oxytocin improved performance for the higher-level social cognitive tasks (Cohen's d=1.0, p=0.045). Subjects were unable to accurately guess which treatment they had received. The improvements found in higher-level social cognition encourage further studies into the therapeutic potential of oxytocin in schizophrenia.








Aging is characterized by increasing muscle loss, physical inactivity and frailty. Physical inactivity is known to be associated with increased incidence of obesity and many life-threatening chronic conditions. We know that exercise, through many factors including antiinflammatory effects and enhanced fitness, can help prevent and treat many chronic diseases as well as help maintain independent living. We set out to demonstrate the utility of regular exercise in this potentially vulnerable age group in both the treatment and prevention of chronic diseases. The benefits, risks and recommendations for physical activity are discussed with an emphasis on practical advice for safe exercise in the context of established international guidelines. These guidelines typically state that 150min per week of moderate aerobic intensity exercise should be achieved with some additional whole-body strength training and balance work. Individual risk assessment should be undertaken in a way to enable safe exercise participation to achieve maximum benefit with minimum risk. The risk assessment, subsequent advice and prescription for exercise should be personalized to reflect individual fitness and functional levels as well as patient safety. Newer and potentially exciting benefits of exercise are discussed in the areas of neuroscience and inflammation where data are suggesting positive effects of exercise in maintaining memory and cognition as well as having beneficial antiinflammatory effects.
The efficient production of human neocortical neurons from human embryonic stem cells (hESC) is the primary requirement for studying early stages of human cortical development. We used hESC to obtain radial glial cells (hESC-RG) and then compared them with RG cells isolated from human fetal forebrain. Fate of hESC-RG cells critically depends on intrinsic and extrinsic factors. The expression of Pax6 (intrinsic factor) has a similar neurogenic effect on hESC-RG differentiation as reported for human fetal RG cells. Factors from the microenvironment also play a significant role in determining hESC-RG cell fate. In contrast to control cultures, wherein hESC-RG generate mainly astroglia and far fewer neurons, in co-cultures with human fetal forebrain cells, the reverse was found to be true. This neurogenic effect was partly due to soluble factors from human fetal brain cultures. The detected shift towards neurogenesis has significance for developing future efficient neuro-differentiation protocols. Importantly, we established that hESC-RG cells are similar in many respects to human fetal RG cells, including their proliferative capacity, neurogenic potential, and ability to generate various cortical neuronal sub-types. Unlike fetal RG cells, the hESC-RG cells are readily available and can be standardized, features that have considerable practical advantages in research and clinics.
Human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) are known for their potential usage in regenerative medicine, but also for handling sensitivity. Much effort has been put into optimizing the culture methods of hESCs. It has been shown that the use of Rho-associated coiled-coil kinase inhibitor (ROCKi) decreases the cellular stress response and the apoptotic cell death in hESC cultures that have been passaged enzymatically. These observations sparked a wide use of ROCKi in hESC cultures. We and others, however, noted that cells passaged enzymatically with the use of ROCKi had a different morphology compared to cells passaged mechanically. Here we show that hESCs that were enzymatically passaged displayed alterations in the nuclear size compared to cultures that were mechanically passaged. Notably, a dramatically decreased expression of the genes encoding common pluripotency markers, such as OCT4/POU5F1 and NANOG were revealed in enzymatically passaged hESCs compared to mechanically passaged, while such differences were not significant when assessing protein levels. The differences in gene expression did not correlate strongly with commonly analyzed histone modifications (H3K4me3, H3K9me3, H3K27me3, and H4K16ac) on the promoters of these genes. Surprisingly, the effects of enzymatic passaging were at least in part reversible as the gene expression profile of enzymatically passaged hESCs that were transferred back to mechanical passaging, showed no significant difference compared to those hESCs that were continuously passaged mechanically. Our results suggest that enzymatic passaging influences parameters associated with hESC characteristics, and emphasizes the importance of using cells handled in the same manner when comparing results both within and between projects.



Glaucoma is an ocular disorder characterized by the progressive loss of retinal ganglion cells (RGC) and their axons. There are various hypotheses concerning the cause of RGC death. Previously, glaucoma was defined by high intraocular pressure (IOP); during the past decade, however, glaucoma specialists have acknowledged that elevated IOP is the most important risk factor for glaucoma, but does not define the disease. Other factors such as genetics, blood flow, and excitotoxicity are suggested as potential causal factors for progressive RGC death observed in glaucoma. We review recent studies elucidating a possible role of low-grade inflammation as a causal factor in the pathogenesis of glaucoma.
l-Dopa-induced dyskinesias (LIDs) are a troublesome complication in Parkinson's disease after long-term therapy and a major reason for surgical treatment. LIDs are effectively eliminated by surgery. We aimed to reproduce such effect in the 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-lesioned rat model. Single or combined lesions with quinolinic acid were caused in the entopeduncular nucleus (EP) and substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr) on 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-lesioned rats treated for 3 weeks with l-Dopa (6 mg/kg plus 15 mg/kg benserazide, i.p.). l-Dopa administration was continued for a further week following the lesion and abnormal involuntary movements (AIMs) scored at the end of treatment. Neither the individual lesions of the EP and SNr nor the combined lesions had any antidyskinetic effect nor decreased the total number of rotations. These results suggest that excitotoxic lesions of neurons bodies of the output nuclei of the basal ganglia, which destroy cell bodies and spare fibers of passage, do not induce a beneficial reduction of dyskinesias in contrast to thermolytic lesions in humans (which provokes a complete tissue destruction), thus supporting the possibility that other nuclei or systems might be involved in the antidyskinetic effect of pallidotomy.
In this article we use proportional hazards models to examine how low-level processes affect the probability of making a saccade over time, through the period of fixation, during reading. We apply the Cox proportional hazards model to investigate how launch distance (relative to word beginning), fixation location (relative to word center), and word frequency affect the hazard of a saccadic response. This model requires that covariates have a constant impact on the hazard over time, the assumption of proportional hazards. We show that this assumption is not supported. The impact of the covariates changes with the time passed since fixation onset. To account for the non-proportional hazards we fit step functions of time, resulting in a model with time-varying effects on the hazard. We evaluate the ability to predict the timing of saccades on held-out fixation data. The model with time-varying effects performs better in predicting the timing of saccades for fixations as short as 100ms and as long as 500ms, when compared both to a baseline model without covariates and a model which assumes constant covariate effects. This result suggests that the time-varying effects model better recovers the time course of low-level processes that influence the decision to move the eyes.
Intersection syndrome describes a rare inflammatory condition located at the crossing point between the first dorsal compartment muscles and the radial wrist extensor muscles. It is a repetitive motion injury that affects patients who overuse their wrists. The present report reviews the incidence of the condition as well as the special populations it affects. The anatomy of the wrist is presented and clinical findings and physical examination techniques are reviewed to help the reader reach a quick but correct diagnosis. Finally, the most appropriate treatment approach is presented, incorporating rehabilitative methods designed to ensure a full and prompt functional recovery and resumption of physical activity.
The temporal-parietal junction (TPJ) has been proposed to support either specifically social functions or non-specific processes of cognition such as memory and attention. To account for diverse prior findings, we propose a nexus model for TPJ function: overlap of basic processes produces novel secondary functions at their convergence. We present meta-analytic evidence that is consistent with the anatomical convergence of attention, memory, language, and social processing in the TPJ, leading to a higher-order role in the creation of a social context for behavior. The nexus model accounts for recent examples of TPJ contributions specifically to decision making in a social context and provides a potential reconciliation for competing claims about TPJ function.
The rat is emerging as a powerful model for studying cognition and its neural bases. Extending this work to the social domain requires understanding better how rats transmit and interpret social information. A recent study highlights a novel role for sniffing as a channel for such social communication.
A recent study suggests that brain changes in amputees may be pain-induced, questioning maladaptive plasticity as a neural basis of phantom pain. These findings add valuable information on cortical reorganization after amputation. We suggest further lines of research to clarify the mechanisms that underlie phantom pain.
The universe of painful Na-channelopathies--human disorders caused by mutations in voltage-gated sodium channels--has recently expanded in three dimensions. We now know that mutations of sodium channels cause not only rare genetic 'model disorders' such as inherited erythromelalgia and channelopathy-associated insensitivity to pain but also common painful neuropathies. We have learned that mutations of NaV1.8, as well as mutations of NaV1.7, can cause painful Na-channelopathies. Moreover, recent studies combining atomic level structural models and pharmacogenomics suggest that the goal of genomically guided pain therapy may not be unrealistic.
Increased understanding of the early stages of olfaction has lead to a renewed interest in the higher brain regions responsible for forming unified 'odor images' from the chemical components detected by the nose. The piriform cortex, which is one of the first cortical destinations of olfactory information in mammals, is a primitive paleocortex that is critical for the synthetic perception of odors. Here we review recent work that examines the cellular neurophysiology of the piriform cortex. Exciting new findings have revealed how the neurons and circuits of the piriform cortex process odor information, demonstrating that, despite its superficial simplicity, the piriform cortex is a remarkably subtle and intricate neural circuit.
Sphingosine 1-phosphate (S1P) receptors (S1PRs) belong to the class A family of G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs). S1PRs are widely expressed on many cell types, including those of the immune, cardiovascular, and central nervous systems. The S1PR family is rapidly gaining attention as an important mediator of many cellular processes, including cell differentiation, migration, survival, angiogenesis, calcium homeostasis, inflammation and immunity. Importantly, S1PRs are known drug targets for multiple sclerosis (MS), for which the newly developed oral therapy fingolimod, an S1PR modulator, has recently been approved for clinical use. Much progress has also recently been made in the field of structural biology and in the modeling of heterotrimeric GPCRs allowing the crystal structure of the S1PR1 subtype to be elucidated and key interactions defined. Here, we outline the structure and function of S1PR1, highlighting the key residues involved in receptor activation, signaling, transmembrane interactions, ligand binding, post-translational modification, and protein-protein interactions.




Protein transport from endoplasmic reticulum (ER) to Golgi apparatus has long been known to be a central process for protein quality control and sorting. Recent studies have revealed that a large number of signal molecules are involved in regulation of membrane trafficking through ER, ER-Golgi intermediate compartment and Golgi apparatus. These molecules can significantly change the transport rate of proteins by regulating vesicle budding and fusion. Protein transport from ER to Golgi apparatus is not only controlled by signal pathways triggered from outside the cell, it is also regulated by feedback signals from the transport pathway.
THE EARLIEST STEPS OF EMBRYONIC NEURAL DEVELOPMENT ARE ORCHESTRATED BY SETS OF TRANSCRIPTION FACTORS THAT CONTROL AT LEAST THREE PROCESSES: the maintenance of proliferative, pluripotent precursors that expand the neural ectoderm; their transition to neurally committed stem cells comprising the neural plate; and the onset of differentiation of neural progenitors. The transition from one step to the next requires the sequential activation of each gene set and then its down-regulation at the correct developmental times. Herein, we review how these gene sets interact in a transcriptional network to regulate these early steps in neural development. A key gene in this regulatory network is FoxD4L1, a member of the forkhead box (Fox) family of transcription factors. Knock-down experiments in Xenopus embryos show that FoxD4L1 is required for the expression of the other neural transcription factors, whereas increased FoxD4L1 levels have three different effects on these genes: up-regulation of neural ectoderm precursor genes; transient down-regulation of neural plate stem cell genes; and down-regulation of neural progenitor differentiation genes. These different effects indicate that FoxD4L1 maintains neural ectodermal precursors in an immature, proliferative state, and counteracts premature neural stem cell and neural progenitor differentiation. Because it both up-regulates and down-regulates genes, we characterized the regions of the FoxD4L1 protein that are specifically involved in these transcriptional functions. We identified a transcriptional activation domain in the N-terminus and at least two domains in the C-terminus that are required for transcriptional repression. These functional domains are highly conserved in the mouse and human homologues. Preliminary studies of the related FoxD4 gene in cultured mouse embryonic stem cells indicate that it has a similar role in promoting immature neural ectodermal precursors and delaying neural progenitor differentiation. These studies in Xenopus embryos and mouse embryonic stem cells indicate that FoxD4L1/FoxD4 has the important function of regulating the balance between the genes that expand neural ectodermal precursors and those that promote neural stem/progenitor differentiation. Thus, regulating the level of expression of FoxD4 may be important in stem cell protocols designed to create immature neural cells for therapeutic uses.

Emotional stimuli may draw attention to such an extent that they hamper the processing of subsequent signals, a phenomenon termed emotion-induced blindness (EIB). As depersonalization is associated with self-reported attenuated emotional responses, the present study explored whether individuals scoring high on the Cambridge Depersonalization Scale (CDS; n=15) exhibit a diminished EIB effect relative to low CDS scoring individuals (n=15), and whether attentional processes reflected in event-related potentials (ERPs) are implicated in this effect. We obtained an EIB effect such that emotional distractors that preceded targets with a lag of 200ms reduced correct detection of targets. Although the magnitude of this effect was similar for high and low CDS participants, high CDS participants exhibited a significantly lower ERP amplitude at the frontal lead in the 200-300ms window than did low CDS individuals to targets that followed emotional versus neutral distractors. This latter effect was significantly related to the Alienation factor of the CDS. This pattern suggests that difficulties in the discrimination between emotional and neutral stimuli relate to the feeling of unreality in depersonalization.


An 18-year-old woman was diagnosed with idiopathic intracranial hypertension (IIH) and bilateral transverse sinus stenoses (TSS), after presenting with papilledema and decreased visual acuity. Lumbar puncture revealed an opening pressure of &gt;60 cm H2O. MRI showed bilateral TSS believed to be associated with the IIH. Initial treatment consisted of symptom relief by a temporary lumbar drain for cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) diversion, while the pros and cons of a more permanent solution by insertion of a ventriculoperitoneal shunt (VPS) or bilateral transverse sinus stent was discussed. A VPS was inserted since the patient had improved with CSF diversion. MRI verified reopening of the venous sinuses after shunt placement, and the patient remains asymptomatic with no signs of relapse after 3 years of follow-up.


Growing evidence on autonomic nervous system (ANS) function in individuals with Williams syndrome (WS) has begun to highlight aberrancies that may have important implications for the social profile characterized by enhanced social motivation and approach. In parallel, neurobiological investigations have identified alterations in the structure, function, and connectivity of the amygdala, as well as prosocial neuropeptide dysregulation, as some of the key neurogenetic features of WS. A recent social approach/withdrawal hypothesis (Kemp and Guastella, 2011) suggests that autonomic cardiac control may play a key role in regulating the relationship between oxytocin (OT) and social behavior. This article discusses evidence from these critical, new strands of research into social behavior in WS, to consider the extent to which data on WS may provide novel insight into the determinants of social behavior. Future research directions are suggested.
Slowed myocardial conduction velocity () is associated with an increased risk of re-entrant excitation, predisposing to cardiac arrhythmia.  is determined by the ion channel and physical properties of cardiac myocytes and by their interconnections. Thus,  is closely related to the maximum rate of action potential (AP) depolarization [(dV/dt)max], as determined by the fast Na(+) current (I Na); the axial resistance (r a) to local circuit current flow between cells; their membrane capacitances (c m); and to the geometrical relationship between successive myocytes within cardiac tissue. These determinants are altered by a wide range of pathophysiological conditions. Firstly, I Na is reduced by the impaired Na(+) channel function that arises clinically during heart failure, ischemia, tachycardia, and following treatment with class I antiarrhythmic drugs. Such reductions also arise as a consequence of mutations in SCN5A such as those occurring in Lengre disease, Brugada syndrome (BrS), sick sinus syndrome, and atrial fibrillation (AF). Secondly, r a, may be increased due to gap junction decoupling following ischemia, ventricular hypertrophy, and heart failure, or as a result of mutations in CJA5 found in idiopathic AF and atrial standstill. Finally, either r a or c m could potentially be altered by fibrotic change through the resultant decoupling of myocyte-myocyte connections and coupling of myocytes with fibroblasts. Such changes are observed in myocardial infarction and cardiomyopathy or following mutations in MHC403 and SCN5A resulting in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) or Lengre disease, respectively. This review defines and quantifies the determinants of  and summarizes experimental evidence that links changes in these determinants with reduced myocardial  and arrhythmogenesis. It thereby identifies the diverse pathophysiological conditions in which abnormal  may contribute to arrhythmia.
When an array of visual elements is changing color, size, or shape incoherently, the changes are typically quite visible even when the overall color, size, or shape statistics of the field may not have changed. When the dots also move, however, the changes become much less apparent; awareness of them is &quot;silenced&quot; (Suchow &amp; Alvarez, 2011). This finding might indicate that the perception of motion is of particular importance to the visual system, such that it is given priority in processing over other forms of visual change. Here we test whether that is the case by examining the converse: whether awareness of motion signals can be silenced by potent coherent changes in color or size. We find that they can, and with very similar effects, indicating that motion is not critical for silencing. Suchow and Alvarez's dots always moved in the same direction with the same speed, causing them to be grouped as a single entity. We also tested whether this coherence was a necessary component of the silencing effect. It is not; when the dot speeds are randomly selected, such that no coherent motion is present, the silencing effect remains. It is clear that neither motion nor grouping is directly responsible for the silencing effect. Silencing can be generated from any potent visual change.

Translocation of the Smoothened to the cell membrane is critical for sonic hedgehog activity. However, the biological importance of Smoothened itself has not been fully studied. To address this issue, we disabled Smoothened specifically in the dorsal telencephalon. Birth-date analysis and layer marker expression patterns revealed the slightly impaired development of the superficial layer neurons in the embryos of Emx1-Cre; Smoothened(fl/-) conditional knockout mice. Further analysis of the mutant embryos revealed a decrease in the number of intermediate progenitor cells. In the knockout mice, the expression of cyclin D2, but not cyclin D1 or cyclin E, was reduced in the dorsal telencephalon. In addition, the projections of dopaminergic neurons were affected during development, and the number of activated astrocytes was increased in the neocortex of the mutant mice. Our data suggest that Smoothened signaling, acting through cyclin D2, is critical for the proper development and maturation of the neocortex.


Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the progressive degeneration of motor neurons. Substantial evidence implicates oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction as early events in disease progression. Our aim was to ascertain whether mutation of the SOD1 protein increases metabolic functional susceptibility to oxidative stress. Here we used a motor neuron-like cell line (NSC34) stably transfected with various human mutant SOD1 transgenes (G93A, G37R, H48Q) to investigate the impact of oxidative stress on cell viability and metabolic function within intact cells. NSC34 cells expressing mutant SOD1 showed a dose dependent reduction in cell viability when exposed to oxidative stress induced by hydrogen peroxide, with variation between mutations. The G93A transfectants showed greater cell death and LDH release compared to cells transfected with the other SOD1 mutations, and H48Q showed an accelerated decline at later time points. Differences in mitochondrial bioenergetics, including mitochondrial respiration, coupling efficiency and proton leak, were identified between the mutations, consistent with the differences observed in viability. NSC34 cells expressing G93A SOD1 displayed reduced coupled respiration and mitochondrial membrane potential compared to controls. Furthermore, the G93A mutation had significantly increased metabolic susceptibility to oxidative stress, with hydrogen peroxide increasing ROS production, reducing both cellular oxygen consumption and glycolytic flux in the cell. This study highlights bioenergetic defects within a cellular model of ALS and suggests that oxidative stress is not only detrimental to oxygen consumption but also glycolytic flux, which could lead to an energy deficit in the cell.
The early stages of diabetic retinopathy (DR) are characterized by alterations similar to neurodegenerative and inflammatory conditions such as increased neural apoptosis, microglial cell activation and amplified production of pro-inflammatory cytokines. Adenosine regulates several physiological functions by stimulating four subtypes of receptors, A1AR, A2AAR, A2BAR, and A3AR. Although the adenosinergic signaling system is affected by diabetes in several tissues, it is unknown whether diabetic conditions in the retina can also affect it. Adenosine delivers potent suppressive effects on virtually all cells of the immune system, but its potential role in the context of DR has yet to be studied in full. In this study, we used primary mixed cultures of rat retinal cells exposed to high glucose conditions, to mimic hyperglycemia, and a streptozotocin rat model of type 1 diabetes to determine the effect diabetes/hyperglycemia have on the expression and protein levels of adenosine receptors and of the enzymes adenosine deaminase and adenosine kinase. We found elevated mRNA and protein levels of A1AR and A2AAR, in retinal cell cultures under high glucose conditions and a transient increase in the levels of the same receptors in diabetic retinas. Adenosine deaminase and adenosine kinase expression and protein levels showed a significant decrease in diabetic retinas 30 days after diabetes induction. An enzymatic assay performed in retinal cell cultures revealed a marked decrease in the activity of adenosine deaminase under high glucose conditions. We also found an increase in extracellular adenosine levels accompanied by a decrease in intracellular levels when retinal cells were subjected to high glucose conditions. In conclusion, this study shows that several components of the retinal adenosinergic system are affected by diabetes and high glucose conditions, and the modulation observed may uncover a possible mechanism for the alleviation of the inflammatory and excitotoxic conditions observed in diabetic retinas.
Little is known about the spread of emotions beyond dyads. Yet, it is of importance for explaining the emergence of crowd behaviors. Here, we experimentally addressed whether emotional homogeneity within a crowd might result from a cascade of local emotional transmissions where the perception of another's emotional expression produces, in the observer's face and body, sufficient information to allow for the transmission of the emotion to a third party. We reproduced a minimal element of a crowd situation and recorded the facial electromyographic activity and the skin conductance response of an individual C observing the face of an individual B watching an individual A displaying either joy or fear full body expressions. Critically, individual B did not know that she was being watched. We show that emotions of joy and fear displayed by A were spontaneously transmitted to C through B, even when the emotional information available in B's faces could not be explicitly recognized. These findings demonstrate that one is tuned to react to others' emotional signals and to unintentionally produce subtle but sufficient emotional cues to induce emotional states in others. This phenomenon could be the mark of a spontaneous cooperative behavior whose function is to communicate survival-value information to conspecifics.
The javascript:void(0)manipulation and sustained effects of acupuncture have been investigated in multiple studies, but several findings are inconsistent with one another. One possible explanation for these discrepancies is that different modalities of acupuncture were utilized in these studies. In the present study, we investigated both the manipulation and sustained effects of acupuncture in different modalities, including manual acupuncture (MA), electroacupuncture (EA) and transcutaneous electrical acupoint stimulation (TEAS). MA, EA, TEAS and sensory control stimulation were applied to 18 healthy subjects, and combined block-designed and resting-state fMRI scans were performed. In analyzing these data, the block-designed datasets were used to assess the manipulation effect by employing a modified general linear model. The data from the resting states, before and after stimulation, were used to explore the brain networks involved in the sustained effect. The results showed that the two 1-min stimulation periods produced similar activation patterns in the sensory control with positive activation in the sensorimotor areas and negative activation in the default mode areas. Although similar patterns could be detected in the first stimulation period in MA, EA and TEAS, no positive activation result was observed in the second stimulation period, and EA showed a more extensive deactivation compared to MA and TEAS. Additionally, all three of the modalities of acupuncture stimulation could increase the instinct brain network in rest. A more secure and spatially extended connectivity of the default mode network was observed following MA and EA, and TEAS specifically increased the functional connectivity in the sensorimotor network. The present study suggested that different brain mechanisms might be recruited in different acupuncture modalities. In addition, the findings from our work could provide methodological information for further research into the mechanism of acupuncture.
The thalamocortical (TC) projection to layer 4 (L4) is thought to be the main route by which sensory organs communicate with cortex. Sensory information is believed to then propagate through the cortical column along the L4L2/3L5/6 pathway. Here, we show that sensory-evoked responses of L5/6 neurons in rats derive instead from direct TC synapses. Many L5/6 neurons exhibited sensory-evoked postsynaptic potentials with the same latencies as L4. Paired in vivo recordings from L5/6 neurons and thalamic neurons revealed substantial convergence of direct TC synapses onto diverse types of infragranular neurons, particularly in L5B. Pharmacological inactivation of L4 had no effect on sensory-evoked synaptic input to L5/6 neurons. L4 is thus not an obligatory distribution hub for cortical activity, and thalamus activates two separate, independent &quot;strata&quot; of cortex in parallel.

The presence of a general global motion processing deficit in amblyopia is now well established, although its severity may depend on image speed and amblyopia type, but its underlying cause(s) is still largely indeterminate. To address this issue and to characterize further the nature of the global motion perception deficit in human amblyopia, the effects of varying spatial offset (jump size-s) and temporal offset (delay between positional updates-t) in discriminating global motion for a range of speeds (1.5, 3 and 9/s) in both amblyopic and normal vision were evaluated. For normal adult observers (NE) and the non-amblyopic eye (FE) motion coherence thresholds measured when t was varied were significantly higher than those when s was varied. Furthermore when t was varied, thresholds rose significantly as the speed of image motion decreased for both NEs and FEs. AE thresholds were higher overall than the other eyes and appeared independent of both the method used to create movement and speed. These results suggest that the spatial and temporal limits underlying the perception of global motion are different. In addition degrading the smoothness of motion has comparatively little effect on the motion mechanisms driven by the AE, suggesting that the internal noise associated with encoding motion direction is relatively high.
The ability to detect an object depends on the contrast between the object and its background. Despite this, many models of visual search rely solely on the properties of target and distractors, and do not take the background into account. Yet, both target and distractors have their individual contrasts with the background. These contrasts generally differ, because the target and distractors are different in at least one feature. Therefore, background is likely to play an important role in visual search. In three experiments we manipulated the properties of the background (luminance, orientation and spatial frequency, respectively) while keeping the target and distractors constant. In the first experiment, in which target and distractors had a different luminance, changing the background luminance had an extensive effect on search times. When background luminance was in between that of the target and distractors, search times were always short. Interestingly, when the background was darker than both the target and the distractors, search times were much longer than when the background was lighter. Manipulating orientation and spatial frequency of the background, on the other hand, resulted in search times that were longest for small target-background differences. Thus, background plays an important role in search. This role depends on the individual contrast of both target and distractors with the background and the type of feature contrast (luminance, orientation or spatial frequency).
Studies of scene perception have shown that the visual system is particularly sensitive to global properties such as the overall layout of a scene. Such global properties cannot be computed locally, but rather require relational analysis over multiple regions. To what extent is observers' perception of scenes impaired in the far periphery? We examined the perception of global scene properties (Experiment 1) and basic-level categories (Experiment 2) presented in the periphery from 10 to 70. Pairs of scene photographs were simultaneously presented left and right of fixation for 80ms on a panoramic screen (5m diameter) covering the whole visual field while central fixation was controlled. Observers were instructed to press a key corresponding to the spatial location left/right of a pre-defined target property or category. The results show that classification of global scene properties (e.g., naturalness, openness) as well as basic-level categorization (e.g., forests, highways), while better near the center, were accomplished with a performance highly above chance (around 70% correct) in the far periphery even at 70 eccentricity. The perception of some global properties (e.g., naturalness) was more robust in peripheral vision than others (e.g., indoor/outdoor) that required a more local analysis. The results are consistent with studies suggesting that scene gist recognition can be accomplished by the low resolution of peripheral vision.

Small G proteins of the Rho family are pivotal regulators of several signaling networks. The Ras homolog family (Rho) and one of its targets, Rho-associated protein kinase (ROCK), participate in a wide variety of biological processes, including bone formation. A previous study has demonstrated that the ROCK inhibitor Y-27632 enhanced bone formation induced by recombinant human bone morphogenetic protein-2 (BMP-2) in vivo and in vitro. However, the effect of other Rho family members, such as Ras-related C3 botulinum toxin substrate 1 (Rac1) and cell division cycle 42 (Cdc42), on bone formation remains unknown. In this study, we investigated whether Rac1 also participates in BMP-2-induced osteogenesis. Expression of a dominant-negative mutant of Rac1 enhanced BMP-2-induced osteoblastic differentiation in C2C12 cells, whereas a constitutively active mutant of Rac1 attenuated that effect. Knockdown of T-lymphoma invasion and metastasis 1 (Tiam1), a Rac-specific guanine nucleotide exchange factor, enhanced BMP-2-induced alkaline phosphatase activity. Further, we demonstrated that BMP-2 stimulated Rac1 activity. These results indicate that the activation of Rac1 attenuates osteoblastic differentiation in C2C12 cells.
Adhesion between neurexin-1 (Nrx1) and neuroligin-1 (Nlg1) induces early recruitment of the postsynaptic density protein 95 (PSD-95) scaffold; however, the associated signaling mechanisms are unknown. To dissociate the effects of ligand binding and receptor multimerization, we compared conditions in which Nlg1 in neurons was bound to Nrx1 or nonactivating HA antibodies. Time-lapse imaging, fluorescence recovery after photobleaching, and single-particle tracking demonstrated that in addition to aggregating Nlg1, Nrx1 binding stimulates the interaction between Nlg1 and PSD-95. Phosphotyrosine immunoblots and pull-down of gephyrin by Nlg1 peptides invitro showed that Nlg1 can be phosphorylated at a uniquetyrosine (Y782), preventing gephyrin binding. Expression of Nlg1 point mutants in neurons indicated that Y782 phosphorylation controls the preferential binding of Nlg1 to PSD-95 versus gephyrin, and accordingly the formation of inhibitory and excitatory synapses. We propose that ligand-induced changes in the Nlg1 phosphotyrosine level control the balance between excitatory and inhibitory scaffold assembly during synapse formation and stabilization.
HIGHLIGHTSThe redundant bilateral visual presentation of verbal stimuli decreases asymmetry and increases the cooperation between the two hemispheres.The increased cooperation between the hemispheres is related to semantic information during lexical processing.The inter-hemispheric interaction is represented by both inhibition and cooperation. This study explores inter-hemispheric interaction (IHI) during a lexical decision task by using a behavioral approach, the bilateral presentation of stimuli within a divided visual field experiment. Previous studies have shown that compared to unilateral presentation, the bilateral redundant (BR) presentation decreases the inter-hemispheric asymmetry and facilitates the cooperation between hemispheres. However, it is still poorly understood which type of information facilitates this cooperation. In the present study, verbal stimuli were presented unilaterally (left or right visual hemi-field successively) and bilaterally (left and right visual hemi-field simultaneously). Moreover, during the bilateral presentation of stimuli, we manipulated the relationship between target and distractors in order to specify the type of information which modulates the IHI. Thus, three types of information were manipulated: perceptual, semantic, and decisional, respectively named pre-lexical, lexical and post-lexical processing. Our results revealed left hemisphere (LH) lateralization during the lexical decision task. In terms of inter-hemisphere interaction, the perceptual and decision-making information increased the inter-hemispheric asymmetry, suggesting the inhibition of one hemisphere upon the other. In contrast, semantic information decreased the inter-hemispheric asymmetry, suggesting cooperation between the hemispheres. We discussed our results according to current models of IHI and concluded that cerebral hemispheres interact and communicate according to various excitatory and inhibitory mechanisms, all which depend on specific processes and various levels of word processing.
In the present study EEG was recorded simultaneously while two participants were playing the three-person ultimatum game (UG). Both participants received different offers from changing proposers about how to split up a certain amount of money between the three players. One of the participants had no say, whereas the other, the responder, was able to harm the payoff of all other players. The aim of the study was to investigate how the outcomes of the respective other are evaluated by participants who were treated fairly or unfairly themselves and to what extent agency influences concerns for fairness. Analyses were focused on the medial frontal negativity (MFN) as an early index for subjective value assignment. Recipients with veto-power exhibited enhanced, more negative-going, MFN amplitudes following proposals that comprised a low share for both recipients, suggesting that responders favored offers with a fair amount to at least one of the two players. Though, the powerless players cared about the amount assigned to the responder, MFN amplitudes were larger following fair compared to unfair offers assigned to the responder. Similarly, concerns for fairness which determined the amplitude of the MFN, suggested that the powerless players exhibited negative and conversely the responders, positive social preferences.








Various characteristics of adeno-associated virus (AAV)-based vectors with long-term safe expression have made it an exciting transduction tool for clinical gene therapy of Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD). Although host immune reactions against the vector as well as transgene products were detected in some instances of the clinical studies, there have been promising observations. Methods of producing AAV vectors for considerable in vivo experimentation and clinical investigations have been developed and a number of studies with AAV vector-mediated muscle transduction were attempted. Notably, an intravenous limb perfusion transduction technique enables extensive transgene expression in the skeletal muscles without noticeable adverse events. Furthermore, cardiac transduction by the rAAV9-microdystrophin would be promising to prevent development of cardiac dysfunction. Recent achievements in transduction technology suggest that long-term transgene expression with therapeutic benefits in DMD treatment would be achieved by the rAAV-mediated transduction strategy with an adequate regimen to regulate host immune response.













In vertebrates, spinal circuits drive rhythmic firing in motoneurons in the appropriate sequence to produce locomotor movements. These circuits become active early during development and mature gradually to acquire the flexibility necessary to accommodate the increased behavioral repertoire of adult animals. The focus here is to elucidate how different pools of motoneurons are organized and recruited and how membrane properties contribute to their mode of operation. For this purpose, we have used the in vitro preparation of adult zebrafish. We show that different motoneuron pools are organized in a somatotopic fashion in the motor column related to the type of muscle fibers (slow, intermediate, fast) they innervate. During swimming, the different motoneuron pools are recruited in a stepwise manner from slow, to intermediate, to fast to cover the full range of locomotor frequencies seen in intact animals. The spike threshold, filtering properties, and firing patterns of the different motoneuron pools are graded in a manner that relates to their order of recruitment. Our results thus show that motoneurons in adult zebrafish are organized into distinct modules, each with defined locations, properties, and recruitment patterns tuned to precisely match the muscle properties and hence produce swimming of different speeds and modalities.
Protein aggregates are a common pathological feature of neurodegenerative diseases and several lysosomal diseases, but it is currently unclear what aggregates represent for pathogenesis. Here we report the accumulation of intraneuronal aggregates containing the macroautophagy adapter proteins p62 and NBR1 in the neurodegenerative lysosomal disease late-infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis (CLN2 disease). CLN2 disease is caused by a deficiency in the lysosomal enzyme tripeptidyl peptidase I, which results in aberrant lysosomal storage of catabolites, including the subunit c of mitochondrial ATP synthase (SCMAS). In an effort to define the role of aggregates in CLN2, we evaluated p62 and NBR1 accumulation in the CNS of Cln2(-/-) mice. Although increases in p62 and NBR1 often suggest compromised degradative mechanisms, we found normal ubiquitin-proteasome system function and only modest inefficiency in macroautophagy late in disease. Importantly, we identified that SCMAS colocalizes with p62 in extra-lysosomal aggregates in Cln2(-/-) neurons in vivo. This finding is consistent with SCMAS being released from lysosomes, an event known as lysosomal membrane permeability (LMP). We predicted that LMP and storage release from lysosomes results in the sequestration of this material as cytosolic aggregates by p62 and NBR1. Notably, LMP induction in primary neuronal cultures generates p62-positive aggregates and promotes p62 localization to lysosomal membranes, supporting our in vivo findings. We conclude that LMP is a previously unrecognized pathogenic event in CLN2 disease that stimulates cytosolic aggregate formation. Furthermore, we offer a novel role for p62 in response to LMP that may be relevant for other diseases exhibiting p62 accumulation.
Gyrification allows an expanded cortex with greater functionality to fit into a smaller cranium. However, the mechanisms of gyrus formation have been elusive. We show that ventricular injection of FGF2 protein at embryonic day 11.5-before neurogenesis and before the formation of intrahemispheric axonal connections-altered the overall size and shape of the cortex and induced the formation of prominent, bilateral gyri and sulci in the rostrolateral neocortex. We show increased tangential growth of the rostral ventricular zone (VZ) but decreased Wnt3a and Lef1 expression in the cortical hem and adjacent hippocampal promordium and consequent impaired growth of the caudal cortical primordium, including the hippocampus. At the same time, we observed ectopic Er81 expression, increased proliferation of Tbr2-expressing (Tbr2(+)) intermediate neuronal progenitors (INPs), and elevated Tbr1(+) neurogenesis in the regions that undergo gyrification, indicating region-specific actions of FGF2 on the VZ and subventricular zone (SVZ). However, the relative number of basal radial glia-recently proposed to be important in gyrification-appeared to be unchanged. These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that increased radial unit production together with rapid SVZ growth and heightened localized neurogenesis can cause cortical gyrification in lissencephalic species. These data also suggest that the position of cortical gyri can be molecularly specified in mice. In contrast, a different ligand, FGF8b, elicited surface area expansion throughout the cortical primordium but no gyrification. Our findings demonstrate that individual members of the diverse Fgf gene family differentially regulate global as well as regional cortical growth rates while maintaining cortical layer structure.
Delta oscillations (1-4 Hz) associate with deep sleep and are implicated in memory consolidation and replay of cortical responses elicited during wake states. A potent local generator has been characterized in thalamus, and local generators in neocortex have been suggested. Here we demonstrate that isolated rat neocortex generates delta rhythms in conditions mimicking the neuromodulatory state during deep sleep (low cholinergic and dopaminergic tone). The rhythm originated in an NMDA receptor-driven network of intrinsic bursting (IB) neurons in layer 5, activating a source of GABAB receptor-mediated inhibition. In contrast, regular spiking (RS) neurons in layer 5 generated theta-frequency outputs. In layer 2/3 principal cells, outputs from IB cells associated with IPSPs, whereas those from layer 5 RS neurons related to nested bursts of theta-frequency EPSPs. Both interlaminar spike and field correlations revealed a sequence of events whereby sparse spiking in layer 2/3 was partially reflected back from layer 5 on each delta period. We suggest that these reciprocal, interlaminar interactions may represent a &quot;Helmholtz machine&quot;-like process to control synaptic rescaling during deep sleep.
In all sensory modalities, intracortical inhibition shapes the functional properties of cortical neurons but also influences the responses to natural stimuli. Studies performed in various species have revealed that auditory cortex neurons respond to conspecific vocalizations by temporal spike patterns displaying a high trial-to-trial reliability, which might result from precise timing between excitation and inhibition. Studying the guinea pig auditory cortex, we show that partial blockage of GABAA receptors by gabazine (GBZ) application (10 m, a concentration that promotes expansion of cortical receptive fields) increased the evoked firing rate and the spike-timing reliability during presentation of communication sounds (conspecific and heterospecific vocalizations), whereas GABAB receptor antagonists [10 m saclofen; 10-50 m CGP55845 (p-3-aminopropyl-p-diethoxymethyl phosphoric acid)] had nonsignificant effects. Computing mutual information (MI) from the responses to vocalizations using either the evoked firing rate or the temporal spike patterns revealed that GBZ application increased the MI derived from the activity of single cortical site but did not change the MI derived from population activity. In addition, quantification of information redundancy showed that GBZ significantly increased redundancy at the population level. This result suggests that a potential role of intracortical inhibition is to reduce information redundancy during the processing of natural stimuli.
The embryonic sympathetic nervous system consists of predominantly noradrenergic neurons and a very small population of cholinergic neurons. Postnatal development further allows target-dependent switch of a subset of noradrenergic neurons into cholinergic phenotype. How embryonic cholinergic neurons are specified at the prenatal stages remains largely unknown. In this study, we found that the expression of transcription factor Tlx3 was progressively restricted to a small population of embryonic sympathetic neurons in mice. Immunostaining for vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT) showed that Tlx3 was highly expressed in cholinergic neurons at the late embryonic stage E18.5. Deletion of Tlx3 resulted in the loss of Vacht expression at E18.5 but not E12.5. By contrast, Tlx3 was required for expression of the cholinergic peptide vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP), and somatostatin (SOM) at both E12.5 and E18.5. Furthermore, we found that, at E18.5 these putative cholinergic neurons expressed glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor family coreceptor Ret but not tyrosine hydroxylase (Ret(+)/TH(-)). Deletion of Tlx3 also resulted in disappearance of high-level Ret expression. Last, unlike Tlx3, Ret was required for the expression of VIP and SOM at E18.5 but not E12.5. Together, these results indicate that transcription factor Tlx3 is required for the acquisition of cholinergic phenotype at the late embryonic stage as well as the expression and maintenance of cholinergic peptides VIP and SOM throughout prenatal development of mouse sympathetic neurons.
Anticipation is an adaptive process, aiding preparatory responses to potentially threatening events. However, excessive anticipatory responding and associated hyper-reactivity in the amygdala and insula are integral to anxiety disorders. Despite the co-occurrence of sleep disruption and anxiety disorders, the impact of sleep loss on affective anticipatory brain mechanisms, and the interaction with anxiety, remains unknown. Here, we demonstrate that sleep loss amplifies preemptive responding in the amygdala and anterior insula during affective anticipation in humans, especially for cues with high predictive certainty. Furthermore, trait anxiety significantly determined the degree of such neural vulnerability to sleep loss: individuals with highest trait anxiety showed the greatest increase in anticipatory insula activity when sleep deprived. Together, these data support a neuropathological model in which sleep disruption may contribute to the maintenance and/or exacerbation of anxiety through its impact on anticipatory brain function. They further raise the therapeutic possibility that targeted sleep restoration in anxiety may ameliorate excessive anticipatory responding and associated clinical symptomatology.
A life-threatening disability after complete spinal cord injury is urinary dysfunction, which is attributable to lack of regeneration of supraspinal pathways that control the bladder. Although numerous strategies have been proposed that can promote the regrowth of severed axons in the adult CNS, at present, the approaches by which this can be accomplished after complete cord transection are quite limited. In the present study, we modified a classic peripheral nerve grafting technique with the use of chondroitinase to facilitate the regeneration of axons across and beyond an extensive thoracic spinal cord transection lesion in adult rats. The novel combination treatment allows for remarkably lengthy regeneration of certain subtypes of brainstem and propriospinal axons across the injury site and is followed by markedly improved urinary function. Our studies provide evidence that an enhanced nerve grafting strategy represents a potential regenerative treatment after severe spinal cord injury.


The scaled subprofile model (SSM)(1-4) is a multivariate PCA-based algorithm that identifies major sources of variation in patient and control group brain image data while rejecting lesser components (Figure 1). Applied directly to voxel-by-voxel covariance data of steady-state multimodality images, an entire group image set can be reduced to a few significant linearly independent covariance patterns and corresponding subject scores. Each pattern, termed a group invariant subprofile (GIS), is an orthogonal principal component that represents a spatially distributed network of functionally interrelated brain regions. Large global mean scalar effects that can obscure smaller network-specific contributions are removed by the inherent logarithmic conversion and mean centering of the data(2,5,6). Subjects express each of these patterns to a variable degree represented by a simple scalar score that can correlate with independent clinical or psychometric descriptors(7,8). Using logistic regression analysis of subject scores (i.e. pattern expression values), linear coefficients can be derived to combine multiple principal components into single disease-related spatial covariance patterns, i.e. composite networks with improved discrimination of patients from healthy control subjects(5,6). Cross-validation within the derivation set can be performed using bootstrap resampling techniques(9). Forward validation is easily confirmed by direct score evaluation of the derived patterns in prospective datasets(10). Once validated, disease-related patterns can be used to score individual patients with respect to a fixed reference sample, often the set of healthy subjects that was used (with the disease group) in the original pattern derivation(11). These standardized values can in turn be used to assist in differential diagnosis(12,13) and to assess disease progression and treatment effects at the network level(7,14-16). We present an example of the application of this methodology to FDG PET data of Parkinson's Disease patients and normal controls using our in-house software to derive a characteristic covariance pattern biomarker of disease.
Long-term potentiation (LTP) is a type of synaptic plasticity characterized by an increase in synaptic strength and believed to be involved in memory encoding. LTP elicited in the CA1 region of acute hippocampal slices has been extensively studied. However the molecular mechanisms underlying the maintenance phase of this phenomenon are still poorly understood. This could be partly due to the various experimental conditions used by different laboratories. Indeed, the maintenance phase of LTP is strongly dependent on external parameters like oxygenation, temperature and humidity. It is also dependent on internal parameters like orientation of the slicing plane and slice viability after dissection. The optimization of all these parameters enables the induction of a very reproducible and very stable long-term potentiation. This methodology offers the possibility to further explore the molecular mechanisms involved in the stable increase in synaptic strength in hippocampal slices. It also highlights the importance of experimental conditions in in vitro investigation of neurophysiological phenomena.






More than 100 papers have been published on the rubber hand illusion since its discovery 14 years ago. The illusion has been proposed as a demonstration that the body is distinguished from other objects by its participation in specific forms of intermodal perceptual correlation. Here, we radically challenge this view by claiming that perceptual correlation is not necessary to produce the experience of this body as mine. Each of 15 participants was seated with his/her right arm resting upon a table just below another smaller table. Thus, the real hand was hidden from the participant's view and a life-sized rubber model of a right hand was placed on the small table in front of the participant. The participant observed the experimenter's hand while approaching--without touching--the rubber hand. Phenomenology of the illusion was measured by means of skin conductance response and questionnaire. Both measures indicated that participants experienced the illusion that the experimenter's hand was about to touch their hidden hand rather than the rubber hand, as if the latter replaced their own hand. This did not occur when the rubber hand was rotated by 180 or replaced by a piece of wood. This illusion indicates that our brain does not build a sense of self in a merely reactive way, via perceptual correlations; rather it generates predictions on what may or may not belong to itself.



The advent of optogenetics provides a new direction for the field of neuroscience and biotechnology, serving both as a refined investigative tool and as potential cure for many medical conditions via genetic manipulation. Although still in its infancy, recent advances in optogenetics has made it possible to remotely manipulate in vivo cellular functions using light. Coined Nature Methods' 'Method of the Year' in 2010, the optogenetic toolbox has the potential to control cell, tissue and even animal behaviour. This optogenetic toolbox consists of light-sensitive proteins that are able to modulate membrane potential in response to light. Channelrhodopsins (ChR) are light-gated microbial ion channels, which were first described in green algae. ChR2 (a subset of ChR) is a seven transmembrane  helix protein, which evokes membrane depolarization and mediates an action potential upon photostimulation with blue (470 nm) light. By contrast to other seven-transmembrane proteins that require second messengers to open ion channels, ChR2 form ion channels themselves, allowing ultrafast depolarization (within 50 milliseconds of illumination). It has been shown that integration of ChR2 into various tissues of mice can activate neural circuits, control heart muscle contractions, and even restore breathing after spinal cord injury. More compellingly, a plethora of evidence has indicated that artificial expression of ChR2 in retinal ganglion cells can reinstate visual perception in mice with retinal degeneration.



Chronic exposure to opiates leads to maladaptive changes in various functions of the mammalian brain, including properties of neuronal response in the visual pathway. In the present study, we used multibarreled microelectrodes to study the effects of electrophoretic application of GABA or the GABAA receptor antagonist bicuculline on the properties of individual V1 neurons in cats which were chronically treated with morphine (MTCs) or saline (STCs). The results showed that the application of either GABA or bicuculline significantly altered spontaneous activity as well as orientation selectivity and signal-to-noise ratios of visually evoked responses in both MTCs and STCs. While administration of bicuculline exerted a much stronger effect on neuronal responses of V1 neurons of the STCs, administration of GABA resulted in improved visual function mainly in MTCs. Most importantly, GABA-treated cells in area V1 of the MTCs displayed similar responses to those in STCs. These results are consistent with the idea that: (1) there is a decrease in GABA-mediated inhibition in area V1 of cats exposed chronically to morphine, and (2) this decrease contributes strongly to the apparent degradation of neuronal function observed in animals exposed chronically to morphine.
Increased glutamatergic neurotransmission appears to mediate the reinforcing properties of drugs of abuse, including ethanol (EtOH). We recently reported that the administration of ceftriaxone (CEF), a -lactam antibiotic known to upregulate glutamate transporter 1 (GLT1) levels/activity, decreased the maintenance of EtOH intake in adult male alcohol-preferring (P) rats. In the present study, we tested whether CEF administration would reduce the acquisition and maintenance of EtOH drinking in adolescent and adult female P rats. The rats were treated with saline or 200mg/kg ceftriaxone for 7 days (starting at 35 or 75 days old, respectively) followed by the EtOH acquisition test. Five weeks later the effects of CEF were examined regarding the maintenance of EtOH intake. For the maintenance test, half of the animals that received CEF during acquisition received CEF for 7 days and the other half received saline for 7 days. Saline-treated acquisition animals were treated similarly. The results indicated that pretreatment with ceftriaxone reduced the maintenance of EtOH intake in both animals that started as adolescents and those that started as adults. However, the beneficial effect of CEF was more pronounced in rats pretreated with CEF as adults compared with rats pretreated as adolescents. Reductions in EtOH intake by ceftriaxone were paralleled by an upregulation of GLT1 protein levels in both the nucleus accumbens (25% in rats starting at both ages) and prefrontal cortex (50% in rats starting as peri-adolescents and 65% in those starting as adults). These findings provide further support for GLT1-associated mechanisms in high alcohol-consuming behavior, and hold promise for the development of effective treatments targeting alcohol abuse and dependence.
Valproic acid (VPA) is a blocker of histone deacetylase widely used to treat epilepsy, bipolar disorders, and migraine; its administration during pregnancy increases the risk of autism spectrum disorder (ASD) in the child. Thus, prenatal VPA exposure has emerged as a rodent model of ASD. In the present study, we aimed to investigate the effect of prenatal administration of VPA (500mg/kg) at E12.5 on the exploratory behavior and locomotor activity in a novel environment, as well as on neuronal morphological rearrangement in the prefrontal cortex (PFC), in the hippocampus, in the nucleus accumbens (NAcc), and in the basolateral amygdala (BLA) at three different ages: immediately after weaning (postnatal day 21 [PD21]), prepubertal (PD35) and postpubertal (PD70) ages. Hyper-locomotion was observed in a novel environment in VPA animals at PD21 and PD70. Interestingly, exploratory behavior assessed by the hole board test at PD70 showed a reduced frequency but an increase in the duration of head-dippings in VPA-animals compared to vehicle-treated animals. In addition, the latency to the first head-dip was longer in prenatal VPA-treated animals at PD70. Quantitative morphological analysis of dendritic spine density revealed a reduced number of spines at PD70 in the PFC, dorsal hippocampus and BLA, with an increase in the dendritic spine density in NAcc and ventral hippocampus, in prenatal VPA-treated rats. In addition, at PD70 increases in neuronal arborization were observed in the NAcc, layer 3 of the PFC, and BLA, with retracted neuronal arborization in the ventral and dorsal hippocampus. Our results extend the list of altered behaviors (exploratory behavior) detected in this model of ASD, and indicate that the VPA behavioral phenotype is accompanied by previously undescribed morphological rearrangement in limbic regions.
Elevated smoking rates seen in schizophrenia populations may be an attempt to correct neuropathologies associated with deficient nicotinic acetylcholine receptors and/or dopaminergic systems using exogenous nicotine. However, nicotine's effects on cognitive processing and sensory gating have been shown to be baseline-dependent. Evidence of a restorative effect on sensory gating deficits by nicotine-like agonists has been demonstrated, however, its underlying mechanisms in the context of dopamine dysregulation are unclear. Catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT), a key dopamine regulator in the brain, contains a co-dominant allele in which a valine-to-methionine substitution causes variations in enzymatic activity leading to reduced synaptic dopamine levels in the Val/Val genotype. Using a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled design with 57 non-smokers, this study examined the effects of COMT genotype on sensory gating and its modulation by nicotine in low vs. high suppressors. The results were consistent with the hypothesis that increased dopamine resulting from nicotine stimulation or Met allelic activity would benefit gating in low suppressors and impair gating in high suppressors, and that this gating improvement with nicotine would be more evident in Val carriers who were low suppressors, while the gating impairment would be more evident in Met carriers who were high suppressors. These findings reaffirm the importance of baseline-dependency and suggest a subtle relationship between COMT genotype and baseline-stratified levels of sensory gating, which may help to explain the variability of cognitive abilities in schizophrenia populations.
Selected morphological, molecular and functional aspects of various microglial cell populations were characterized in cell cultures established from the forebrains of E18 rat embryos. The mixed primary cortical cultures were maintained for up to 28days using routine culturing techniques when the microglial cells in the culture were not stimulated or immunologically challenged. During culturing, expansion of the microglial cell populations was observed, as evidenced by quantitative assessment of selected monocyte/macrophage/microglial cell-specific markers (human leukocyte antigen (HLA) DP, DQ, DR, CD11b/c and Iba1) via immunocyto- and histochemistry and Western blot analysis. The Iba1 immunoreactivity in Western blots steadily increased about 750-fold, and the number of Iba1-immunoreactive cells rose at least 67-fold between one day in vitro (DIV1) and DIV28. Morphometric analysis on binary (digital) silhouettes of the microglia revealed their evolving morphology during culturing. Microglial cells were mainly ameboid in the early stages of in vitro differentiation, while mixed populations of ameboid and ramified cell morphologies were characteristic of older cultures as the average transformation index (TI) increased from 1.96 (DIV1) to 15.17 (DIV28). Multiple immunofluorescence labeling of selected biomarkers revealed different microglial phenotypes during culturing. For example, while HLA DP, DQ, DR immunoreactivity was present exclusively in ameboid microglia (TI&lt;3) between DIV1 and DIV10, CD11b/c- and Iba1-positive microglial cells were moderately (TI&lt;13) and progressively (TI&lt;81) more ramified, respectively, and always present throughout culturing. Regardless of the age of the cultures, proliferating microglia were Ki67-positive and characterized by low TI values (TI&lt;3). The microglial function was assessed by an in vitro phagocytosis assay. Unstimulated microglia with low TI values were significantly more active in phagocytosing fluorescent microspheres than the ramified forms. In vitro studies on microglial population dynamics combined with phenotypic characterization can be of importance when different in vivo pathophysiological situations are modeled in vitro.
Elevated nerve growth factor (NGF) is believed to play a role in many types of pain. An NGF-blocking antibody (muMab 911) has been shown to reduce pain and hyperalgesia in pain models, suggesting a novel therapeutic approach for pain management. Since NGF also plays important roles in peripheral nervous system development and sensory nerve outgrowth, we asked whether anti-NGF antibodies would adversely impact peripheral nerve regeneration. Adult rats underwent a unilateral sciatic nerve crush to transect axons and were subcutaneously dosed weekly for 8weeks with muMab 911 or vehicle beginning 1day prior to injury. Plasma levels of muMab 911 were assessed from blood samples and foot print analysis was used to assess functional recovery. At 8-weeks post-nerve injury, sciatic nerves were prepared for light and electron microscopy. In a separate group, Fluro-Gold was injected subcutaneously at the ankle prior to perfusion, and counts and sizes of retrogradely labeled and unlabeled dorsal root ganglion neurons were obtained. There was no difference in the time course of gait recovery in antibody-treated and vehicle-treated animals. The number of myelinated and nonmyelinated axons was the same in the muMab 911-treated crushed nerves and intact nerves, consistent with observed complete recovery. Treatment with muMab 911 did however result in a small decrease in average cell body size on both the intact and injured sides. These results indicate that muMab 911 did not impair functional recovery or nerve regeneration after nerve injury in adult rats.
Central dopamine systems are key players in the cerebral organization of behavior and in various neurological and psychiatric diseases. We demonstrate the presence of a neurochemical feed-forward loop characterized by region-specific changes in dopamine efflux in serially connected striatal regions, providing evidence in favor of the existence of so-called spiraling striato-nigro-striatal connections. Using in vivo microdialysis of rats, we show that simultaneous stimulation of dopamine D1 and D2 receptors in the accumbal shell decreased dorsal striatal dopamine efflux via a direct or indirect feed-forward loop involving shell, core, ventrolateral and dorsal part of the striatum: simultaneous stimulation of dopamine D1 and D2 receptors in the shell decreased dopamine efflux in the core; flupenthixol-induced inhibition of dopamine D1 and D2 receptors in the core increased dopamine efflux in the ventrolateral part of the striatum, and simultaneous stimulation of dopamine D1 and D2 receptors in the ventrolateral part of the striatum decreased dopamine efflux in the dorsal part of the striatum. Finally, simultaneous stimulation of dopamine D1 and D2 receptors in the shell decreased dopamine efflux in the dorsal part of the striatum. Thus, distinct striatal regions act also in series, providing a better understanding of the neural mechanisms underlying dopamine-dependent behaviors and the progression of dopamine-dependent disorders such as depression, schizophrenia, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), and addiction.
Anxiety disorders are associated with abnormalities in the neural processing of threat-related stimuli. However, the neurobiological mechanisms underlying threat bias in anxiety are not well understood. We recently reported that a Prkar1a heterozygote (Prkar1a(+/-)) mouse with haploinsufficiency for the main regulatory subunit (R1) of protein kinase A (PKA) exhibits an anxiety-like phenotype associated with increased cAMP signaling in the amygdala. Prkar1a(+/-) mice provide a novel model to test the direct effect of altered PKA expression and subsequent anxiety-like behavioral phenotype on the response to threat. We hypothesized that Prkar1a(+/-)mice would exhibit a bias in threat detection since increased amygdala activity during emotional stimuli is associated with a maladaptive response. We measured behavior and PKA activity in brain areas after exposure to predator or control odor exposure in male Prkar1a(+/-) and wild-type (WT) littermates. Indeed, there were significant differences in the behavioral response to threat detection; WT mice showed the expected response of decrease in exploratory behavior during predator vs. control odor exposure, while Prkar1a(+/-) mice did not alter their behavior between conditions. Basal and total PKA activity was independently associated with genotype, with an interaction between genotype and threat condition. Prkar1a(+/-) mice had higher PKA activity in amygdala and ventromedial hypothalamus in response to predator odor. In contrast, WT mice had higher PKA activity in amygdala and orbitofrontal cortex after exposure to control odor. Dysregulated PKA activity in the amygdala-prefrontal cortex circuitry in Prkar1a(+/-) mice is associated with behavioral phenotype of anxiety and a bias for threat. This is likely related to a failure to inhibit the amydgala response, which is an effect of the genotype. These results suggest that the alteration in PKA signaling in Prkar1a(+/-) mice is not ubiquitous in the brain; tissue-specific effects of the cAMP/PKA pathway are related to threat detection and fear sensitization.
Although there has been an abundance of research focused on offspring outcomes associated with maternal experiences, there has been limited examination of the relationship between paternal experiences and offspring brain development. As spermatogenesis is a continuous process, experiences that have the ability to alter epigenetic regulation in fathers may actually change developmental trajectories of offspring. The purpose of this study was to examine the effects of paternal stress prior to conception on behaviour and the epigenome of both male and female developing rat offspring. Male Long-Evans rats were stressed for 27 consecutive days and then mated with control female rats. Early behaviour was tested in offspring using the negative geotaxis task and the open field. At P21 offspring were sacrificed and global DNA methylation levels in the hippocampus and frontal cortex were analysed. Paternal stress prior to conception altered behaviour of all offspring on the negative geotaxis task, delaying acquisition of the task. In addition, male offspring demonstrated a reduction in stress reactivity in the open field paradigm spending more time than expected in the centre of the open field. Paternal stress also altered DNA methylation patterns in offspring at P21, global methylation was reduced in the frontal cortex of female offspring, but increased in the hippocampus of both male and female offspring. The results from this study clearly demonstrate that paternal stress during spermatogenesis can influence offspring behaviour and DNA methylation patterns, and these affects occur in a sex-dependent manner. Development takes place in the centre of a complex interaction between maternal, paternal, and environmental influences, which combine to produce the various phenotypes and individual differences that we perceive.
The migration of subventricular zone (SVZ)-derived neural precursor cells through the rostral migratory stream (RMS) to the olfactory bulb is tightly regulated by local micro-environmental cues. Insulin-like Growth Factor-I (IGF-I) can stimulate the migration of several neuronal cell types and acts as a 'departure' factor in the avian SVZ. To establish whether IGF-I can also act as a migratory factor for adult neuronal precursor cells in vivo, in addition to its well established role in precursor cell proliferation and differentiation, we used AAV2-mediated gene transfer to produce ectopic expression of IGF-I in the normal adult rat striatum. We then assessed whether the expression of IGF-I would recruit SVZ-derived neuronal precursor cells from the RMS into the striatum. Ectopic expression of IGF-I in the normal adult rat brain significantly increased the number of doublecortin (Dcx)-positive cells and the extent of their migration into the striatum 4 and 8 weeks after AAV2-IGF-I injection but did not promote neuronal differentiation. In vitro migration assays confirmed that IGF-I is an inducer of migration and directs SVZ-derived adult neuronal precursor cell migration by both chemotaxis and chemokinesis. These results demonstrate that overexpression of IGF-I in the normal adult rat brain can override the normal cues directing precursor cell migration along the RMS and can redirect precursor cell migration into a non-neurogenic region. Enhanced expression of IGF-I following brain injury may therefore act as a diffusible factor mediating precursor cell migration to areas of neuronal cell damage.
Interleukin-33 (IL-33), a member of the IL-1 family, has attracted growing interest since its discovery in 2003. IL-33 has been implicated in many diseases, including arthritis, asthma, allergies, and cardiovascular and infectious diseases. However, few studies have investigated its role in the transmission and modulation of pain. The present study was designed to explore the possible roles of IL-33 and its receptor, ST2, in formalin-induced inflammatory pain in mice. We found that both subcutaneous (s.c., 300 ng) and intrathecal injection (i.t., 3 ng) of recombinant IL-33 (rIL-33) increased paw lifting and licking time not only in normal mice but also in formalin models. Administration of ST2 antibody, which blocked the IL-33/ST2 signaling, alleviated the formalin-induced spontaneous pain behavior. Moreover, the ST2(-/-) mice showed significantly decreased pain behavior, as well as reduced ultrasonic vocalization induced by formalin, compared with the wild-type group. Additionally, ST2 antibody alleviated the potentiating effects of rIL-33 on pain behavior in the formalin mice, indicating that IL-33 plays a role in pain modulation through its ST2 receptor. These data suggest IL-33 and its ST2 receptor mediate formalin-induced inflammatory pain, and as a result this cytokine and its receptor may be new targets for the development of analgesics.
Damage from oxidative stress plays a critical role in spinal cord injury. Nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor (Nrf-2) signaling pathway can be activated by cellular oxidative stress. Resveratrol, a plant-derived polyphenolic compound found in red wine, has antioxidant properties. In the present study, we have examined the neuroprotective effect of resveratrol and the role of Nrf-2 in spinal cord hypoxic injury. The spinal cord was removed from adult male Wistar rats from T2-T10 and the dorsal column was used to induce hypoxic injury in vitro with and without treatment with resveratrol (50M). Significant changes were found in the compound action potential (CAP) of spinal cord dorsal column, and hematoxyline and eosin (H&amp;E) staining showed that resveratrol significantly improved neuronal injury. The biochemical assays showed significant changes in lipid peroxidase (LPO), reduced glutathione (GSH), superoxide dismutase (SOD), protein carbonyl (PC), mitochondrial ATP content, and mitochondrial Ca(++). Furthermore, using immunohistochemistry and Western blot, we found that after resveratrol treatment during hypoxic injury there was a significant activation of NrF-2 and down regulation of the glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) content. The results show that resveratrol treatment has neuroprotective effects on CAP, Ca(++) loading, and biochemical parameters after hypoxic injury. The neuroprotective effect is likely to be exerted by increased activation of transcription factor Nrf-2 by resveratrol along with its direct antioxidant effect to ameliorate the oxidative damage and preserve mitochondrial function.
Motor neuron disorders may be associated with mitochondrial dysfunction, and repetitive electrical impulse conduction during energy restriction has been found to cause neuronal degeneration. The aim of this study was to investigate the vulnerability of motor axons of a presymptomatic late-onset, fast-progression SOD1(G127X) mouse model of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis to long-lasting, high-frequency repetitive activity. Tibial nerves were stimulated at ankle in 7 to 8-month-old SOD1(G127X) mice when they were clinically indistinguishable from wild-type (WT) mice. The evoked compound muscle action potentials and ascending compound nerve action potentials were recorded from plantar muscles and from the sciatic nerve, respectively. Repetitive stimulation (RS) was carried out in interrupted trains of 200-Hz for 3h. During the stimulation-sequence there was progressive conduction failure in WT and, to a lesser extent, in the SOD1(G127X). By contrast, 3 days after RS the electrophysiological responses remained reduced in the SOD1(G127X) but recovered completely in WT. Additionally, morphological studies showed Wallerian degeneration in the disease model. Nerve excitability testing by &quot;threshold-tracking&quot; showed that axons recovering from RS had changes in excitability suggestive of membrane hyperpolarization, which was smaller in the SOD1(G127X) than in WT. Our data provide proof-of-principle that SOD1(G127X) axons are less resistant to activity-induced changes in ion-concentrations. It is possible that in SOD1(G127X) there is inadequate energy-dependent Na(+)/K(+) pumping, which may lead to a lethal Na(+) overload.
Anorexia nervosa (AN) is an eating disorder characterized by self-imposed severe starvation and often linked with excessive exercise. Activity-based anorexia (ABA) is an animal model that reproduces some of the behavioral phenotypes of AN, including the paradoxical increase in voluntary exercise following food restriction (FR). Although certain rodents have been used successfully in this animal model, C57BL/6 mice are reported to be less susceptible to ABA. We re-examined the possibility that female C57BL/6 mice might exhibit ABA vulnerability during adolescence, the developmental stage/sex among the human population with particularly high AN vulnerability. After introducing the running wheel to the cage for 3 days, ABA was induced by restricting food access to 1h per day (ABA1, N=13) or 2 h per day (ABA2, N=10). All 23 exhibited increased voluntary wheel running (p&lt;0.005) and perturbed circadian rhythm within 2 days. Only one out of five survived ABA1 for 3 days, while 10 out of 10 survived ABA2 for 3 days and could subsequently restore their body weight and circadian rhythm. Exposure of recovered animals to a second ABA2 induction revealed a large range of vulnerability, even within littermates. To look for the cellular substrate of differences in vulnerability, we began by examining synaptic patterns in the hippocampus, a brain region that regulates anxiety as well as plasticity throughout life. Quantitative EM analysis revealed that CA1 pyramidal cells of animals vulnerable to the second ABA2 exhibit less GABAergic innervation on cell bodies and dendrites, relative to the animals resilient to the second ABA (p&lt;0.001) or controls (p&lt;0.05). These findings reveal that C57BL/6J adolescent females can be used to capture brain changes underlying ABA vulnerability, and that GABAergic innervation of hippocampal pyramidal neurons is one important cellular substrate to consider for understanding the progression of and resilience to AN.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) initiates a cascade of processes that ultimately form a nonpermissive environment for axonal regeneration. Emerging evidence suggests that regenerative failure may be due in part to inhibitory factors expressed by reactive spinal cord glial cells and meningeal fibroblasts, such as the Eph receptor protein-tyrosine kinases and their corresponding ligands (ephrins). Here we sought to assess the role of ephrin B2, an inhibitory axonal guidance molecule, as an inhibitor of the recovery process following SCI. To determine the extent of ephrin B2 involvement in axonal regenerative failure, a SCI model was performed on a conditional ephrin B2 knockout mouse strain (ephrin B2(-/-)), in which the ephrin B2 gene was deleted under the GFAP promoter . The expression of ephrin B2 was significantly decreased in astrocytes of injured and uninjured ephrin B2(-/-) mice compared to wild-type mice. Notably, in the ephrin B2(-/-) mice, the deletion of ephrin B2 reduced astrogliosis, and accelerated motor function recovery after SCI. Anterograde axonal tracing on a hemisection model of SCI further showed that ephrin B2(-/-) mice exhibited increased regeneration of injured corticospinal axons and a reduced glial scar, when compared to littermate controls exposed to similar injury. These results were confirmed by an in vitro neurite outgrowth assay and ephrin B2 functional blockage, which showed that ephrin B2 expressed on astrocytes inhibited axonal growth. Combined these findings suggest that ephrin B2 ligands expressed by reactive astrocytes impede the recovery process following SCI.
Stress affects brain activity and promotes long-term changes in multiple neural systems. Exposure to stressors causes substantial effects on the perception and response to pain. In several animal models, chronic stress produces lasting hyperalgesia. Postmortem studies of patients with stress-related psychiatric disorders have demonstrated a decrease in the number of astrocytes and the level of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), a marker for astrocyte, in the cerebral cortex. Since astrocytes play vital roles in maintaining neuroplasticity via synapse maintenance and secretion of neurotrophins, damage of astrocytes is thought to be involved in the neuropathology. In the present study we examined GFAP, S100 and CD11b protein levels in the rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM) after the subacute and chronic restraint stresses to clarify changes in descending pain modulatory system in the rat with stress-induced hyperalgesia. Chronic restraint stress (6h/day for 3 weeks), but not subacute restraint stress (6h/day for 3 days), caused a marked mechanical hypersensitivity. Subacute and chronic restraint stresses induced a significant decrease of GFAP protein level in the RVM (21.9  3.6%, p&lt;0.01 and 18.2  5.1%, p&lt;0.05 vs. control group, respectively). In the chronic stress group, the GFAP protein level in the RVM was positively correlated with the mechanical threshold (p&lt;0.05). The immunohistochemical analysis revealed that chronic restraint stress induced a significant decrease in GFAP-immunoreactivity in the nucleus raphe magnus, a part of the RVM, compared to subacute restraint stress. In contrast there was no significant difference in the S100 and CD11b protein levels between the control and stress groups. These findings suggest that the long-lasting decrease of GFAP protein induced by chronic restraint stress causes dysfunction of astrocytes, which may be involved in the impairment of the RVM that plays pivotal roles in pain modulation.
Little is known about the influence of arsenic (As) exposure on monoamine neurotransmitters and the underlying mechanisms, although arsenic toxicity on the central nervous system has been well documented. In the present study, the levels of norepinephrine (NE), dopamine (DA), and 5-HT were determined by high performance liquid chromatography in the cerebrum and cerebellum of mice exposed to 1, 2 and 4 ppm As2O3 through drinking water for 60 days. The ultra-structural change of vesicles in the synapses of mice brains was observed by transmission electron microscopy; the mRNA expressions of dopamine beta hydroxylase (DBH), tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH) as NE, DA and 5-HT synthetases were quantitatively assessed by real time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. It was shown that the concentrations of NE, DA and 5-HT in the cerebrum or cerebellum of mice exposed to As were significantly lower than those in the control group. The number of synaptic vesicles significantly decreased in the brain of mice exposed to As. Moreover, the expressions of TH, TPH and DBH genes were significantly lower in the brains of mice exposed to As than those in the controls. These results suggested that subchronic exposure to As might decrease the concentrations of the three monoamine neurotransmitters in the mouse brain and downregulate TH, TPH and DBH gene expressions. It was also indicated that the decreased concentrations of the three monoamine neurotransmitters in the brain might be related to the down-regulated gene expressions of these synthetases by As.
The complexity of the internal structure of the striatum is not completely understood, and the striosomes/matrix compartmentalization in particular has been one of the intriguing substructures of the striatum. Although various neurochemical markers have been used to visualize striosomes with sufficient clarity, it still remains obscure whether striosomes that are detectable by a single marker represent all of the striosomal compartments and to what extent the compartments are uniform across different intrastriatal positions. Triple immunohistochemical labeling for the three representative striosomes/matrix markers, -opioid receptor (MOR), substance P (SP), and enkephalin (Enk), was applied to serial sections covering the whole striatum of the mouse (n=8). The majority of MOR-positive striosomes were confined to the rostral quarter of the striatum. In contrast, SP-positive striosomes were distributed more broadly in the rostral two-thirds of the striatum. No striosomes were observable in the caudal third by the present method. In the rostral striatum, the majority of striosomes were labeled for both MOR and SP, but some at the most rostral positions were detectable only by MOR, while caudally located striosomes were identifiable only by SP. Thus MOR- and SP-immunoreactivities in striosomes exhibited contrasting patterns along the rostrocaudal axis. The Enk immunohistochemistry produced complicated profiles and was unsuitable for the detection of striosomes in mice. However, Enk immunoreactivity in MOR and/or SP-positive striosomes was higher in the ventral portion than in the dorsal portion in the rostral striatum. The present study revealed the region-specific diversity of striosomes, suggesting site-dependent differential regulation of striosomal neurons by MOR ligands and SP that are contained in indirect- and direct-pathway neurons, respectively. The results further suggest the necessity of viewing the striosomes as non-uniform compartments in addition to the traditional dichotomous view, which focuses on discrimination between the striosomes and the matrix.
Functional imaging studies have revealed differential brain activation patterns in attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) adult patients performing working memory (WM) tasks. The existence of alterations in WM-related cortical circuits during childhood may precede executive dysfunctions in this disorder in adults. To date, there is no study exploring the electrophysiological activation of WM-related neural networks in ADHD. To address this issue, we carried out an electroencephalographic (EEG) activation study associated with time-frequency (TF) analysis in 15 adults with ADHD and 15 controls performing two visual N-back WM tasks, as well as oddball detection and passive fixation tasks. Frontal transient (phasic) theta event-related synchronization (ERS, 0-500 msec) was significantly reduced in ADHD as compared to control subjects. Such reduction was equally present in a task-independent manner. In contrast, the power of the later sustained (500-1200 msec) theta ERS for all tasks was comparable in ADHD and control groups. In active WM tasks, ADHD patients displayed lower alpha event-related desynchronization (ERD, 200-900 msec) and higher subsequent alpha ERS (900-2400 msec) compared to controls. The time course of alpha ERD/ERS cycle was modified in ADHD patients compared to controls, suggesting that they are able to use late compensatory mechanisms in order to perform this WM task. These findings support the idea of an ADHD-related dysfunction of neural generators sub-serving attention directed to the incoming visual information. ADHD cases may successfully face WM needs depending on the preservation of sustained theta ERS and prolonged increase of alpha ERS at later post-stimulus time points.
We have recently demonstrated that the ventral premammillary nucleus (PMV) plays a key role in the metabolic control of the female reproductive axis. However, whether PMV neurons modulate the reproductive neural circuitry and/or the expression of sexual behaviors has not been determined. Here, we showed that the expression of estrogen and progesterone receptors in the PMV is modulated by changing levels of sex steroids across the estrous cycle. We also showed that sexual behavior, not the high physiologic levels of sex steroids, induces Fos in PMV neurons. Bilateral lesions of the PMV caused no significant changes in proceptive behavior but a high percentage of PMV-lesioned rats failed to exhibit lordosis behavior when exposed to a sexually experienced male rat (50% vs. 18% in the control group). Notably, lesions of the PMV disrupted the physiologic fluctuations of Kiss1 and GnRH mRNA expression characteristic of the proestrus-to-estrus transition. This neurochemical imbalance may ultimately alter female reproductive behavior. Our findings suggest that the PMV is a component of the neural circuitry that modulates the physiologic fluctuations of key neuroendocrine players (i.e., Kiss1 and GnRH) in the control of the female reproductive physiology.
The immediate-early gene, c-jun, is expressed in spinal motoneurons after spinal root avulsion. The expression of c-jun was suggested to be necessary for motoneuron survival and regeneration after avulsion. In the present study, a small interfering RNA (siRNA) was delivered intrathecally to the injured spinal segments immediately after root avulsion in rats to knock down expression of the c-jun gene in injured spinal motoneurons so as to explore the role of c-jun in the motoneurons in vivo. Our results showed that the siRNA not only inhibited the expression of both c-jun mRNA and protein but also augmented the death of injured motoneurons at day 14 post-injury. These findings indicated that induction of c-jun gene expression plays a pivotal role in the survival of injured motoneurons. Meanwhile, these results suggest that siRNAs applied intrathecally can effectively mediate the expression of the c-jun gene in injured motoneurons.
Memories of learned associations between the rewarding properties of drugs of abuse and environmental cues contribute to craving and relapse in humans. Disruption of reconsolidation dampens or even erases previous memories. Dopamine (DA) mediates the acquisition of reward memory and drugs of abuse can pathologically change related neuronal circuits in the mesolimbic DA system. Previous studies showed that DA D3 receptors are involved in cocaine-conditioned place preference (CPP) and reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior. However, the role of D3 receptors in reconsolidation of cocaine-induced reward memory remains unclear. In the present study, we combined genetic and pharmacological approaches to investigate the role of D3 receptors in reconsolidation of cocaine-induced CPP. We found that the mutation of the D3 receptor gene weakened reconsolidation of cocaine-induced CPP in mice triggered by a 3-min (min) retrieval. Furthermore, treatment of a selective D3 receptor antagonist PG01037 immediately following the 3-min retrieval disrupted reconsolidation of cocaine-induced CPP in wild-type mice and such disruption remained at least 1 week after the 3-min retrieval. These results suggest that D3 receptors play a key role in reconsolidation of cocaine-induced CPP in mice, and that pharmacological blockade of these receptors may be therapeutic for the treatment of cocaine craving and relapse in clinical settings.
It was recently established that the stomach-derived ghrelin and the adipokine leptin promote learning and memory through actions within the hippocampus. Changes in the peripheral or brain levels of these peptides were described in Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients and were shown to correlate with the severity of cognitive decline. Furthermore, in vivo and in vitro studies demonstrated that leptin or ghrelin can ameliorate amyloid and tau pathologies as well as cognitive deficits. However, the exact role of these peptides in AD is far from being elucidated. To fill this gap, our working hypothesis was that leptin and ghrelin can exert a neuroprotective role in AD suppressing hippocampal dysfunction triggered by synapto- and neurotoxic amyloid- oligomers (AO). Using primary cultured hippocampal neurons, we demonstrated that both peptides reduce AO-induced production of superoxide and mitochondrial membrane depolarization, improving cell survival, and inhibit cell death through a receptor-dependent mechanism. Furthermore, it was shown that in AO-treated neurons both leptin and ghrelin prevent glycogen synthase kinase 3 activation. Therefore, the evidence gathered in this study revealed that leptin and ghrelin can act as neuroprotective agents able to rescue hippocampal neurons from AO toxicity, thus highlighting their potential therapeutic role in AD.
In the brain, the connection between sensory information triggered by the presence of a stressor and the organism's reaction involves limbic areas such as the hippocampus, amygdala and prefrontal cortex. Consequently, these brain regions are the most sensitive to stress-induced changes in neuronal plasticity. However, the specific effects of stress on neuronal plasticity in these regions largely differ. Despite these regional differences, in many cases the steps leading to brain adaptation to stress involve highly coordinated changes in gene expression affecting cell metabolism, neuronal plasticity and synaptic transmission. In adult life the effects of stress on neuronal plasticity are largely reversible but stress in early life induces persistent changes in neuronal plasticity that increases vulnerability to develop psychopathologies and aging-related cognitive decline, suggesting the involvement of epigenetic mechanisms. A growing body of evidence demonstrates that microRNAs (miRs) are key players in epigenetic regulation. In this forefront review we present a critical look on the literature demonstrating the regulation of neuronal plasticity by miRs and the molecular mechanisms of target specificity in neurons. We propose that further progress in the identification of miR's function beyond single target identification would require a combination of developmental expression studies, bioinformatics and a deeper understanding of large networks of targets involved in epigenetic regulation. This will help to extend our understanding of the role miRs play in the regulation of stress-induced neuronal plasticity.
Neuroinflammation in the spinal cord plays a critical role in the processing of inflammatory pain. Docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), a predominant omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid in the central nervous system, is known to modulate inflammatory responses in various neurodegenerative disorders. In this study, we investigated whether DHA could reduce inflammatory pain and inhibit neuroinflammation in the spinal cord following carrageenan injection in mice. Intrathecal (i.t.) injection of DHA at 15min before carrageenan injection blocked carrageenan-induced pain hypersensitivity for more than 6h. In addition, i.t. injection of DHA at 3h after carrageenan transiently reversed carrageenan-induced heat hyperalgesia and mechanical allodynia. Furthermore, DHA treatment reduced carrageenan-induced activation of microglia, phosphorylation of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), and production of proinflammatory cytokines (tumor necrosisfactor- - TNF- and interleukin-1 - IL-1) in the L4-5 spinal cord. In cultured microglial cells, DHA dose-dependently reduced lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced phosphorylation of p38, production of proinflammatory cytokines (TNF-, IL-1, IL-6) and chemokines (CCL2, CCL3 and CXCL10). p38 inhibitor SB203580 inhibited LPS-induced expression of proinflammatory cytokines and chemokines in a dose-dependent manner. Taken together, these results provide evidence that DHA has antinociceptive effect in inflammatory pain, which may be attributed to, at least partially, suppressing a microglia-mediated inflammatory response through inhibition of p38 MAPK activation.
The analgesic effectiveness of long-term opioid therapies is compromised by the development of antinociceptive tolerance linked to the overt production of peroxynitrite (ONOO(-), PN), the product of the interaction between superoxide (O2(-), SO) and nitric oxide (NO), and to neuroinflammatory processes. We have recently reported that in addition to post-translational nitration and inactivation of mitochondrial manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD), activation of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) oxidase holoenzyme (NOX) in the spinal cord is a major source for the overt production of superoxide-derived PN during the development of morphine-induced antinociceptive tolerance. However, the NOX complex involved in these processes is not known. The objective of these studies is to identify a potential role for the NOX2 complex, an enzyme involved in inflammation. Mice lacking the catalytic subunit of NOX2 (Nox2(-/-)) or its regulatory subunit, p47(phox) (p47(phox)(-/-)), developed antinociceptive tolerance similar to wildtype (wt) mice after 3 days of continuous morphine. However, while wt mice continue to develop tolerance by day six, morphine analgesia was restored in both Nox2(-/-) and p47(phox)(-/-) mice. Moreover, the loss of Nox2 or p47 did not affect acute morphine analgesia in nave mice. In wt mice, antinociceptive tolerance was associated with increased activation of NOX, nitration of MnSOD, and proinflammatory cytokines production in the spinal cord. These events were markedly attenuated in Nox2(-/-) and p47(phox)(-/-) mice and instead, there was enhanced formation of antiinflammatory cytokine (IL4 and IL10) production. These results suggest that NOX2 activity provides a significant source of superoxide-derived PN to undertake post-translational modifications of mitochondrial MnSOD and to engage neuroinflammatory signaling in the spinal cord associated with opioid-induced antinociceptive tolerance. Thus, NOX2 may provide a potential target for adjuvant therapy to protect opioid analgesia.

Adeno-associated virus (AAV) mediated gene expression is a powerful tool for gene therapy and preclinical studies. A comprehensive analysis of CNS cell type tropism, expression levels and biodistribution of different capsid serotypes has not yet been undertaken in neonatal rodents. Our previous studies show that intracerebroventricular injection with AAV2/1 on neonatal day P0 results in widespread CNS expression but the biodistribution is limited if injected beyond neonatal day P1. To extend these observations we explored the effect of timing of injection on tropism and biodistribution of six commonly used pseudotyped AAVs delivered in the cerebral ventricles of neonatal mice. We demonstrate that AAV2/8 and 2/9 resulted in the most widespread biodistribution in the brain. Most serotypes showed varying biodistribution depending on the day of injection. Injection on neonatal day P0 resulted in mostly neuronal transduction, whereas administration in later periods of development (24-84 hours postnatal) resulted in more non-neuronal transduction. AAV2/5 showed widespread transduction of astrocytes irrespective of the time of injection. None of the serotypes tested showed any microglial transduction. This study demonstrates that both capsid serotype and timing of injection influence the regional and cell-type distribution of AAV in neonatal rodents, and emphasizes the utility of pseudotyped AAV vectors for translational gene therapy paradigms.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) has a diverse functional role and complex pattern of gene expression. Alternative splicing of mRNA transcripts leads to further diversity of mRNAs and protein isoforms. Here, we describe the regulation of BDNF mRNA transcripts in an in vitro model of eyeblink classical conditioning and a unique transcript that forms a functionally distinct truncated BDNF protein isoform. Nine different mRNA transcripts from the BDNF gene of the pond turtle Trachemys scripta elegans (tBDNF) are selectively regulated during classical conditioning: exon I mRNA transcripts show no change, exon II transcripts are downregulated, while exon III transcripts are upregulated. One unique transcript that codes from exon II, tBDNF2a, contains a 40 base pair deletion in the protein coding exon that generates a truncated tBDNF protein. The truncated transcript and protein are expressed in the nave untrained state and are fully repressed during conditioning when full-length mature tBDNF is expressed, thereby having an alternate pattern of expression in conditioning. Truncated BDNF is not restricted to turtles as a truncated mRNA splice variant has been described for the human BDNF gene. Further studies are required to determine the ubiquity of truncated BDNF alternative splice variants across species and the mechanisms of regulation and function of this newly recognized BDNF protein.
A consolidated approach to the study of the mental representation of word meanings has consisted in contrasting different domains of knowledge, broadly reflecting the abstract-concrete dichotomy. More fine-grained semantic distinctions have emerged in neuropsychological and cognitive neuroscience work, reflecting semantic category specificity, but almost exclusively within the concrete domain. Theoretical advances, particularly within the area of embodied cognition, have more recently put forward the idea that distributed neural representations tied to the kinds of experience maintained with the concepts' referents might distinguish conceptual meanings with a high degree of specificity, including those within the abstract domain. Here we report the results of two psycholinguistic rating studies incorporating such theoretical advances with two main objectives: first, to provide empirical evidence of fine-grained distinctions within both the abstract and the concrete semantic domains with respect to relevant psycholinguistic dimensions; second, to develop a carefully controlled linguistic stimulus set that may be used for auditory as well as visual neuroimaging studies focusing on the parametrization of the semantic space beyond the abstract-concrete dichotomy. Ninety-six participants rated a set of 210 sentences across pre-selected concrete (mouth, hand, or leg action-related) and abstract (mental state-, emotion-, mathematics-related) categories, with respect either to different semantic domain-related scales (rating study 1), or to concreteness, familiarity, and context availability (rating study 2). Inferential statistics and correspondence analyses highlighted distinguishing semantic and psycholinguistic traits for each of the pre-selected categories, indicating that a simple abstract-concrete dichotomy is not sufficient to account for the entire semantic variability within either domains.
The assembly of neuronal circuits during development requires the precise navigation of axons, which is controlled by attractive and repulsive guidance cues. In the developing spinal cord, ephrinB3 functions as a short-range repulsive cue that prevents EphA4 receptor-expressing corticospinal tract and spinal interneuron axons from crossing the midline, ensuring proper formation of locomotor circuits. Here we report that the small GTPase RhoA, a key regulator of cytoskeletal dynamics, is also required for ephrinB3/EphA4-dependent locomotor circuit formation. Deletion of RhoA from neural progenitor cells results in mice that exhibit a rabbit-like hopping gait, which phenocopies mice lacking ephrinB3 or EphA4. Consistent with this locomotor defect, we found that corticospinal tract axons and spinal interneuron projections from RhoA-deficient mice aberrantly cross the spinal cord midline. Furthermore, we determined that loss of RhoA blocks ephrinB3-induced growth cone collapse of cortical axons and disrupts ephrinB3 expression at the spinal cord midline. Collectively, our results demonstrate that RhoA is essential for the ephrinB3/EphA4-dependent assembly of cortical and spinal motor circuits that control normal locomotor behavior.
Compulsive behavior is a debilitating clinical feature of many forms of neuropsychiatric disease, including Tourette syndrome, obsessive-compulsive spectrum disorders, eating disorders, and autism. Although several studies link striatal dysfunction to compulsivity, the pathophysiology remains poorly understood. Here, we show that both constitutive and induced genetic deletion of the gene encoding the melanocortin 4 receptor (MC4R), as well as pharmacologic inhibition of MC4R signaling, normalize compulsive grooming and striatal electrophysiologic impairments in synapse-associated protein 90/postsynaptic density protein 95-associated protein 3 (SAPAP3)-null mice, a model of human obsessive-compulsive disorder. Unexpectedly, genetic deletion of SAPAP3 restores normal weight and metabolic features of MC4R-null mice, a model of human obesity. Our findings offer insights into the pathophysiology and treatment of both compulsive behavior and eating disorders.
Traumatic events can engender persistent excessive fear responses to trauma reminders that may return even after successful treatment. Extinction, the laboratory analog of behavior therapy, does not erase conditioned fear memories but generates competing, fear-inhibitory &quot;extinction memories&quot; that, however, are tied to the context in which extinction occurred. Accordingly, a dominance of fear over extinction memory expression--and, thus, return of fear--is often observed if extinguished fear stimuli are encountered outside the extinction (therapy) context. We show that postextinction administration of the dopamine precursor L-dopa makes extinction memories context-independent, thus strongly reducing the return of fear in both mice and humans. Reduced fear is accompanied by decreased amygdala and enhanced ventromedial prefrontal cortex activation in both species. In humans, ventromedial prefrontal cortex activity is predicted by enhanced resting-state functional coupling of the area with the dopaminergic midbrain during the postextinction consolidation phase. Our data suggest that dopamine-dependent boosting of extinction memory consolidation is a promising avenue to improving anxiety therapy.
G protein (heterotrimeric guanine nucleotide-binding protein)-coupled receptor (GPCR)-mediated increases in the second messenger cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) activate the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), and in neuroendocrine cells, this pathway leads to cAMP-dependent neuritogenesis mediated through Rap1 and B-Raf. We found that the Rap guanine nucleotide exchange factor Rapgef2 was enriched from primary bovine neuroendocrine cells by cAMP-agarose affinity chromatography and that it was specifically eluted by cAMP. With loss-of-function experiments in the rat neuronal cell line Neuroscreen-1 (NS-1) and gain-of-function experiments in human embryonic kidney 293T cells, we demonstrated that Rapgef2 connected GPCR-dependent activation of adenylate cyclase and increased cAMP concentration with the activation of ERK in neurons and endocrine cells. Furthermore, knockdown of Rapgef2 blocked cAMP- and ERK-dependent neuritogenesis. Our data are consistent with a pathway involving the cAMP-mediated activation of Rapgef2, which then stimulates Rap1, leading to increases in B-Raf, MEK, and ERK activity.
The calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) family mainly includes CGRP, CGRP, adrenomedullin, calcitonin and amylin. The members of CGRP family and their receptors are widely distributed in the central and peripheral nervous systems. Studies show that members of CGRP family such as CGRP and adrenomedullin play important roles in the transmission of nociceptive information. At spinal level, CGRP promotes the transmission of nociceptive information, spinal morphine tolerance, migraine, inflammatory pain and neuropathic pain. At superspinal level, CGRP suppresses the transmission of nociceptive information. Adrenomedullin is a pain-related neuropeptide which has recently been demonstrated. It facilitates the transmission of nociceptive information and is involved in the development and maintenance of opioid tolerance. The involvement of amylin and calcitonin in pain is not clear yet.











With the recent identification of two new pathogenic mutations in -synuclein, we map the five known pathogenic mutations onto the best available models of the protein structure. We show that four of the five mutations map to a potential fold in the protein with the exception being the A30P mutation in which the substitution would be expected to have a profound effect on protein structure. We discuss this localisation in terms of the proposed mechanisms for mutation pathogenicity.
The nucleolus, the site of ribosomal ribonucleic acid (rRNA) transcription and assembly, is an important player in the cellular response to stress. Altered nucleolar function and morphology, including decreased nucleolar volume, has been observed in Parkinson's disease; thus the nucleolus represents a potential indicator of neurodegeneration in the disease. This study determined the effects of a partial unilateral intrastriatal 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesion, which models the dopaminergic loss found in Parkinson's disease, on the nucleoli of dopaminergic cells in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc). Adult male Long-Evans rats underwent unilateral intrastriatal infusion of 6-OHDA (12.5g). Lesions were verified by amphetamine-stimulated rotation 7 days later, and rats were euthanized 14 days after infusion. Coronal sections (50m) were stained for tyrosine hydroxylase-silver nucleolar (TH-AgNOR) stain using MultiBrain Technology (NeuroScience Associates), which resulted in clearly defined nucleoli and neuronal outlines. Stereological methods were used to compare dopaminergic morphology between lesioned and intact hemispheres in each rat. In cells exhibiting a definable nucleolus, nucleolar volume was decreased by 16% on the ipsilateral side. The ipsilateral SNpc also exhibited an 18% decrease in SNpc planimetric volume, a 46% decrease in total TH-positive neuron number, and an 11% decrease in neuronal body volume (all P&lt;0.05 by paired t-test). These findings suggest that the 6-OHDA lesion alters nucleolar morphology and that these changes are similar to those occurring in Parkinson's disease.








Objective:Previous experiments have demonstrated that acute sleep loss impairs glucose homeostasis and increases food intake in humans. The incretin hormone glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) enhances postprandial insulin secretion and promotes satiety. Hypothesizing that the detrimental metabolic effects of sleep curtailment imply alterations in GLP-1 signaling, we investigated 24-h serum total GLP-1 concentrations during total sleep deprivation (TSD) and a normal sleep/wake cycle (comprising 8h of sleep) in 12 healthy young men.Methods:Sessions started at 1800h, and subjects were provided with standardized meals. Assessments of serum GLP-1 took place in 1.5- to 3-h intervals, focusing on the response to breakfast intake (3.8MJ).Results:Across conditions, 24-h concentration profiles of GLP-1 were characterized by the expected postprandial increases (P&lt;0.001). Although there were no differences in magnitude between conditions (P&gt;0.11), the postprandial GLP-1 peak response to breakfast intake was delayed by 90min following sleep loss in comparison with regular sleep (P&lt;0.02).Conclusions:Results indicate that acute TSD exerts a mild, but discernible effect on the postprandial dynamics of circulating GLP-1 concentrations in healthy men.
Endothelin-1 (Edn1) signaling provides a critical input to development of the embryonic pharygneal arches and their skeletal derivatives, particularly the articulating joints and the ventral skeleton including the lower jaw. Previous work in zebrafish has mostly focused on the role of Edn1 in dorsal-ventral (DV) patterning, but Edn1 signaling must also regulate tissue size, for with severe loss of the pathway the ventral skeleton is not only mispatterned, but is also prominently hypoplastic--reduced in size. Here we use mutational analyses to show that in the early pharyngeal arches, ventral-specific edn1-mediated proliferation of neural crest derived cells is required for DV expansion and outgrowth, and that this positive regulation is counterbalanced by a negative one exerted through a pivotal, ventrally expressed Edn1-target gene, hand2. We also describe a new morphogenetic cell movement in the ventral first arch, sweeping cells anterior in the arch to the region where the lower jaw forms. This movement is negatively regulated by hand2 in an apparently edn1-independent fashion. These findings point to complexity of regulation by edn1 and hand2 at the earliest stages of pharyngeal arch development, in which control of growth and morphogenesis can be genetically separated.
Understanding how neuronal diversity is achieved within the cerebral cortex remains a major challenge in neuroscience. The advent of human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) as a model system provides a unique opportunity to study human corticogenesis in vitro and to identify the mechanisms that promote neuronal differentiation to achieve neuronal diversity in human brain. The transcription factor Fezf2 is necessary and sufficient for the specification of subcerebral projection neurons in mouse. However, its function during human corticogenesis is poorly understood. This study reports the differentiation of a hFezf2-YFP hESC reporter line into corticofugal projection neurons capable of extending axons toward the spinal cord upon transplantation into neonatal mouse brains. Additionally, we show that triple inhibition of the TGF/BMP/Wnt-Shh pathway promotes the generation of hFezf2-expressing cells in vitro. Finally, this study unveils the isolation of two novel and distinct populations of hFezf2-YFP expressing cells reminiscent of the distinct Fezf2-expressing neuronal subtypes in the developing mouse brain. Overall our data suggest that the directed differentiation of hESCs into corticofugal neurons provides a useful model to identify the molecular mechanisms regulating human corticofugal differentiation and survival.
In the rat islets -aminobutyric acid (GABA) is produced by the -cells and, at least, the -cells express the GABA(A) receptors (GABA(A) channels). In this study, we examined in intact islets if the interstitial GABA activated the GABA(A) receptors. We used the patch-clamp technique to record whole-cell and single-channel currents and single-cell RT-PCR to identify the cell-type we recorded from, in the intact rat islets. We further identified which GABA(A) receptor subunits were expressed. We determined the cell-type of 43 cells we recorded from and of these 49%, 28% and 7% were ,  and -cells, respectively. In the remaining 16% of the cells, mRNA transcripts of more than one hormone gene were detected. The results show that in rat islets interstitial GABA activates tonic current in the -cells but not in the -cells. Seventeen different GABA(A) receptor subunits are expressed with high expression of 1, 2, 4, 6, 3, 1, , 1, 2 and 3 subunits whereas no expression was detected for 5 or  subunits. The abundance of the GABA(A) receptor subunits detected suggests that a number of GABA(A) receptor subtypes are formed in the islets. The single-channel and tonic currents were enhanced by pentobarbital and inhibited by the GABA(A) receptor antagonist SR-95531. The single-channel conductance ranged from 24 to 105 pS. Whether the single-channel conductance is related to subtypes of the GABA(A) receptor or variable interstitial GABA concentrations remains to be determined. Our results reveal that GABA is an extracellular signaling molecule in rat pancreatic islets and reaches concentration levels that activate GABA(A) receptors on the glucagon-releasing -cells.
Cells of the dorsomedial/lateral hypothalamus (DMH/LH) that produce hypocretin (HCRT) promote arousal in part by activation of cells of the locus coeruleus (LC) which express tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). The suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) drives endogenous daily rhythms, including those of sleep and wakefulness. These circadian oscillations are generated by a transcriptional-translational feedback loop in which the Period (Per) genes constitute critical components. This cell-autonomous molecular clock operates not only within the SCN but also in neurons of other brain regions. However, the phenotype of such neurons and the nature of the phase controlling signal from the pacemaker are largely unknown. We used dual fluorescent in situ hybridization to assess clock function in vasopressin, HCRT and TH cells of the SCN, DMH/LH and LC, respectively, of male Syrian hamsters. In the first experiment, we found that Per1 expression in HCRT and TH oscillated in animals held in constant darkness with a peak phase that lagged that in AVP cells of the SCN by several hours. In the second experiment, hamsters induced to split their locomotor rhythms by exposure to constant light had asymmetric Per1 expression within cells of the middle SCN at 6 h before activity onset (AO) and in HCRT cells 9 h before and at AO. We did not observe evidence of lateralization of Per1 expression in the LC. We conclude that the SCN communicates circadian phase to HCRT cells via lateralized neural projections, and suggests that Per1 expression in the LC may be regulated by signals of a global or bilateral nature.
The present study examined the neural mechanisms of attention modulation on timing using ERP and sLORETA measurements in a dual-task paradigm. We parametrically varied the attention to the durations of a 1000-Hz pure tone and further localized the cortical regions that were sensitive to the attention modulation on timing. Results demonstrated that the attention modulation might happen at early stage, approximately 200 ms after stimulus presentation. The P2 component at frontal area served as an early neural correlate of attention effects on timing. More importantly, the contingent negative variation (CNV) appeared at fronto-central area was sensitive to the attention effect. In addition, the supplementary motor area (SMA) was assumed to be one of the key regions for selectively attending to and estimating time. These findings provide temporal and spatial correlates of attention-modulated time processing and potentially help to investigate the neural mechanisms of patients with time perception deficits.


The rising prevalence of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is rapidly becoming one of the largest health and economic challenges in the world. There is a growing need for the development and implementation of reliable biomarkers for AD that can be used to assist in diagnosis, inform disease progression, and monitor therapeutic efficacy. Preclinical models permit the evaluation of candidate biomarkers and assessment of pipeline agents before clinical trials are initiated and provide a translational opportunity to advance biomarker discovery. Fast and inexpensive data can be obtained from examination of peripheral markers, though they currently lack the sensitivity and consistency of imaging techniques such as MRI or PET. Plasma and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers in animal models can assist in development and implementation of similar approaches in clinical populations. These biomarkers may also be invaluable in decisions to advance a treatment to human testing. Longitudinal studies in AD models can determine initial presentation and progression of biomarkers that may also be used to evaluate disease-modifying efficacy of drugs. The refinement of biomarker approaches in preclinical systems will not only aid in drug development, but may facilitate diagnosis and disease monitoring in AD patients.
The autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxias, also known as spinocerebellar ataxias (SCA), are characterized by cerebellar degeneration and by their afferent and efferent connections. Currently, at least 31 types of SCA are described, among which a subset, comprising types 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 17 of the disease, is distinguished due to sharing the same form of mutation involving the repetition of the series of CAG triplets, known as polyglutamine diseases (SCApolyQ). Through a systematic literature review using the Pubmed, PsycoINFO, LILACS and SciELO databases and the keywords Spinocerebellar Ataxia in association with the words neuropsychiatric, psychological, cognitive impairment(s) and psychiatric comorbidities this study aimed to identify the possible associations between SCApolyQ and neuropsychological and psychiatric symptoms/disorders. A greater presence of symptoms of depression and anxiety was evidenced, as well as the existence of cognitive impairments in the patients with SCApolyQ when compared with the general population, with important differences in the profile of these impairments among the types of SCA. It was observed that the findings, in general, indicated greater impairment in the executive functions, verbal fluency and verbal memory and that there was a higher concentration of studies for SCA2 and SCA3. However, there is a need for a greater number of studies using a more homogeneous methodology, which perform direct comparisons between the types of ataxias and that explore some of the still little evaluated neuropsychological functions and the different psychiatric disorders in their amplitude.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of dementia. Several hypotheses have been put forward to explain the basis of disease onset and progression. Unfortunately, none of these seems to clarify the complexity of the pathogenesis. In fact, diverse and independent pathogenetic pathways can be disrupted at the same time, and each contributes to disease etiology. In recent years, researchers have begun studying biometals more deeply. A number of studies have shown that metal dyshomeostasis may enhance AD onset and progression. Specifically, different authors have hypothesized that alterations in metal metabolism are associated with an increased in metal-related oxidative stress and beta-amyloid oligomer formation and precipitation. Studies conducted in vivo, in vitro, in living patients and in silico studies have demonstrated that local and systemic defects in copper metabolism are characteristic signs of AD. This strongly supports the hypothesis that copper pathways may be disrupted by the disease. More specifically, a copper phenotype can be proposed for AD, based on defects found in genes involved in copper metabolism. In this review, we describe copper dyshomeostasis in AD patients and attempt to explain the basis of the AD copper phenotype. Dissecting copper pathways, we highlight mechanisms which may be at the basis of the disease. We also discuss various associated translation outcomes.
In the mushroom bodies (MBs) of Drosophila, an analogue of the mammalian olfactory cortex, olfactory stimuli are sparsely encoded by Kenyon cells (KCs) that exhibit a high level of odor selectivity. Sparse coding of olfactory stimuli has significant advantages for maximizing the discrimination power and storage capacity of MBs. The inhibitory gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) system is important for regulating information processing in MBs, but its specific role in the sparse coding of odors is unclear. In this study, we investigated the role of the GABA system in the sparse coding of odors using an in vivo calcium imaging strategy, which allowed us to measure the activity of the KC population at single cell resolution while the components of the GABA system were genetically manipulated. We found that the down-regulation of GABAA but not GABAB receptors in KCs reduced the sparseness of odor representations in the MB, as shown by an increase in the population response probability and decrease in the odor selectivity of single KCs. Furthermore, the down-regulation of GABA synthesis in a pair of large GABAergic neurons innervating the entire MB reduced the sparseness of odor representations in KCs. In conclusion, the sparse coding of odors in MBs is regulated by a pair of GABAergic neurons through the GABAA receptors on KCs, thus demonstrating a specific role of the inhibitory GABA system on information processing in the MB.
Kallmann's syndrome is caused by the failure of olfactory axons and gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) neurons to enter the embryonic forebrain, resulting in anosmia and sterility. Sox10 mutations have been associated with Kallmann's syndrome phenotypes, but their effect on olfactory system development is unknown. We recently showed that Sox10 is expressed by neural crest-derived olfactory ensheathing cells (OECs). Here, we demonstrate that in homozygous Sox10(lacZ/lacZ) mouse embryos, OEC differentiation is disrupted; olfactory axons accumulate in the ventromedial olfactory nerve layer and fewer olfactory receptor neurons express the maturation marker OMP (most likely owing to the failure of axonal targeting). Furthermore, GnRH neurons clump together in the periphery and a smaller proportion enters the forebrain. Our data suggest that human Sox10 mutations cause Kallmann's syndrome by disrupting the differentiation of OECs, which promote embryonic olfactory axon targeting and hence olfactory receptor neuron maturation, and GnRH neuron migration to the forebrain.

Brain structures related to reproduction are thought to depend on the action of gonadal steroids acting either during early life (organizing irreversible effects) or adulthood (activating transient effects). More recently puberty has become a focus of attention and it was demonstrated that action of sex steroid hormones at this time plays a critical role in the final organization of brain and behavior. We studied by BrdU immunohistochemistry the ontogeny from hatching to sexual maturity of a previously identified cell population in the preoptic area labeled by a BrdU injection at the end of embryonic period (E12) of sexual differentiation in male and female Japanese quail. After an initial increase between E12 and hatching, the density of BrdU-immunoreactive cells decreased until the beginning of puberty but then increased again during sexual maturation in the caudal preoptic area specifically. Divisions of these cells took place in the brain parenchyma as indicated by the large numbers of pairs of labeled cells. No sex difference affecting these processes could be detected at any stage of development. Large numbers of new cells thus arise around puberty in the caudal preoptic area and presumably contribute to the reorganization of this structure that precedes the emergence of adult reproductive behaviors.

The diagnostic guidelines of Alzheimer's disease (AD) have recently been updated to include brain imaging and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers, with the aim of increasing the certainty of whether a patient has an ongoing AD neuropathologic process or not. The CSF biomarkers total tau (T-tau), hyperphosphorylated tau (P-tau) and the 42 amino acid isoform of amyloid  (A42) reflect the core pathologic features of AD, which are neuronal loss, intracellular neurofibrillary tangles and extracellular senile plaques. Since the pathologic processes of AD start decades before the first symptoms, these biomarkers may provide means of early disease detection. The updated guidelines identify three different stages of AD: preclinical AD, mild cognitive impairment (MCI) due to AD and AD with dementia. In this review, we aim to summarize the CSF biomarker data available for each of these stages. We also review results from blood biomarker studies. In summary, the core AD CSF biomarkers have high diagnostic accuracy both for AD with dementia and to predict incipient AD (MCI due to AD). Longitudinal studies on healthy elderly and recent cross-sectional studies on patients with dominantly inherited AD mutations have also found biomarker changes in cognitively normal at-risk individuals. This will be important if disease-modifying treatment becomes available, given that treatment will probably be most effective early in the disease. An important prerequisite for this is trustworthy analyses. Since measurements vary between studies and laboratories, standardization of analytical as well as pre-analytical procedures will be essential. This process is already initiated. Apart from filling diagnostic roles, biomarkers may also be utilized for prognosis, disease progression, development of new treatments, monitoring treatment effects and for increasing the knowledge about pathologic processes coupled to the disease. Hence, the search for new biomarkers continues. Several candidate biomarkers have been found in CSF, and although biomarkers in blood have been harder to find, some recent studies have presented encouraging results. But before drawing any major conclusions, these results need to be verified in independent studies.

Efficient application of stem cells to the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases requires safe cell tracking to follow stem cell fate over time in the host environment after transplantation. In this work, for the first time, fluorescent and biocompatible methyl methacrylate (MMA)-based nanoparticles (fluoNPs) were synthesized through a free-radical co-polymerization process with a fluorescent macromonomer obtained by linking Rhodamine B and hydroxyethyl methacrylate. We demonstrate that the fluoNPs produced by polymerization of MMA-Rhodamine complexes (1) were efficient for the labeling and tracking of multipotent human amniotic fluid cells (hAFCs); (2) did not alter the main biological features of hAFCs (such as viability, cell growth and metabolic activity); (3) enabled us to determine the longitudinal bio-distribution of hAFCs in different brain areas after graft in the brain ventricles of healthy mice by a direct fluorescence-based technique. The reliability of our approach was furthermore confirmed by magnetic resonance imaging analyses, carried out by incubating hAFCs with both superparamagnetic iron oxide nanoparticles and fluoNPs. Our data suggest that these finely tunable and biocompatible fluoNPs can be exploited for the longitudinal tracking of stem cells.





Reference brains are indispensable tools in human brain mapping, enabling integration of multimodal data into an anatomically realistic standard space. Available reference brains, however, are restricted to the macroscopic scale and do not provide information on the functionally important microscopic dimension. We created an ultrahigh-resolution three-dimensional (3D) model of a human brain at nearly cellular resolution of 20 micrometers, based on the reconstruction of 7404 histological sections. &quot;BigBrain&quot; is a free, publicly available tool that provides considerable neuroanatomical insight into the human brain, thereby allowing the extraction of microscopic data for modeling and simulation. BigBrain enables testing of hypotheses on optimal path lengths between interconnected cortical regions or on spatial organization of genetic patterning, redefining the traditional neuroanatomy maps such as those of Brodmann and von Economo.

OBJECTIVES: Clinical staging is widespread in medicine - it informs prognosis, clinical course, and treatment, and assists individualized care. Staging places an individual on a probabilistic continuum of increasing potential disease severity, ranging from clinically at-risk or latency stage through first threshold episode of illness or recurrence, and, finally, to late or end-stage disease. The aim of the present paper was to examine and update the evidence regarding staging in bipolar disorder, and how this might inform targeted and individualized intervention approaches. METHODS: We provide a narrative review of the relevant information. RESULTS: In bipolar disorder, the validity of staging is informed by a range of findings that accompany illness progression, including neuroimaging data suggesting incremental volume loss, cognitive changes, and a declining likelihood of response to pharmacological and psychosocial treatments. Staging informs the adoption of a number of approaches, including the active promotion of both indicated prevention for at-risk individuals and early intervention strategies for newly diagnosed individuals, and the tailored implementation of treatments according to the stage of illness. CONCLUSIONS: The nature of bipolar disorder implies the presence of an active process of neuroprogression that is considered to be at least partly mediated by inflammation, oxidative stress, apoptosis, and changes in neurogenesis. It further supports the concept of neuroprotection, in that a diversity of agents have putative effects against these molecular targets. Clinically, staging suggests that the at-risk state or first episode is a period that requires particularly active and broad-based treatment, consistent with the hope that the temporal trajectory of the illness can be altered. Prompt treatment may be potentially neuroprotective and attenuate the neurostructural and neurocognitive changes that emerge with chronicity. Staging highlights the need for interventions at a service delivery level and implementing treatments at the earliest stage of illness possible.

The molecular mechanisms underlying the axon arborization of mammalian neurons are poorly understood but are critical for the establishment of functional neural circuits. We identified a pathway defined by two kinases, LKB1 and NUAK1, required for cortical axon branching in vivo. Conditional deletion of LKB1 after axon specification or knockdown of NUAK1 drastically reduced axon branching in vivo, whereas their overexpression was sufficient to increase axon branching. The LKB1-NUAK1 pathway controls mitochondria immobilization in axons. Using manipulation of Syntaphilin, a protein necessary and sufficient to arrest mitochondrial transport specifically in the axon, we demonstrate that the LKB1-NUAK1 kinase pathway regulates axon branching by promoting mitochondria immobilization. Finally, we show that LKB1 and NUAK1 are necessary and sufficient to immobilize mitochondria specifically at nascent presynaptic sites. Our results unravel a link between presynaptic mitochondrial capture and axon branching.
Most available information on endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-plasma membrane (PM) contacts in cells of higher eukaryotes concerns proteins implicated in the regulation of Ca(2+) entry. However, growing evidence suggests that such contacts play more general roles in cell physiology, pointing to the existence of additionally ubiquitously expressed ER-PM tethers. Here, we show that the three extended synaptotagmins (E-Syts) are ER proteins that participate in such tethering function via C2 domain-dependent interactions with the PM that require PI(4,5)P2 in the case of E-Syt2 and E-Syt3 and also elevation of cytosolic Ca(2+) in the case of E-Syt1. As they form heteromeric complexes, the E-Syts confer cytosolic Ca(2+) regulation to ER-PM contact formation. E-Syts-dependent contacts, however, are not required for store-operated Ca(2+) entry. Thus, the ER-PM tethering function of the E-Syts (tricalbins in yeast) mediates the formation of ER-PM contacts sites, which are functionally distinct from those mediated by STIM1 and Orai1.
Valproic acid (VPA) is a branched-chain saturated fatty acid with a long history of clinical use as an antiepileptic drug (AED). VPA is also known to inhibit histone deacetylases (HDACs) and to cause diverse effects on neural progenitor cells (NPCs) and neurons. Although the neuroprotective or neurodestructive effects of VPA have been investigated in heterogeneous cell populations, in this study, we used homogeneous populations of NPCs and glutamatergic cortical pyramidal neurons, which were differentiated from embryonic stem (ES) cells. At therapeutic concentrations, VPA had a proapoptotic effect on ES cell-derived NPCs of glutamatergic neurons, but not on their progeny. This effect of VPA most likely occurred through the inhibition of HDACs, because similar phenotypes were observed following treatment with other HDAC inhibitors (HDACis) such as trichostatin A and sodium butyrate. The proapoptotic phenotype was not observed when cells were exposed to a structural analog of VPA, valpromide (VPM), which has the same antiepileptic effect as VPA, but does not inhibit HDACs. Western blotting confirmed that treatment with HDACis, but not VPM, significantly increased the levels of histone H3 acetylation in NPCs. HDACi treatments did not affect the survival of neurons, although the acetylation levels were increased to a limited extent. These results, which are based on a homogeneous culture system, suggest that VPA inhibits HDAC activity and induces the apoptosis of NPCs that are fated to differentiate into glutamatergic neurons. The dose-dependent effects of VPA both on apoptosis and hyperacetylation of histone H3 in NPCs supported this notion. These cell type- and differentiation stage-specific effects of VPA imply that dysfunction of HDACs during pregnancy significantly increase the risk of congenital malformations associated with VPA administration.

The ability to initiate and sustain trust is critical to health and well-being. Willingness to trust is in part determined by the reputation of the putative trustee, gained via direct interactions or indirectly through word of mouth. Few studies have examined how the reputation of others is instantiated in the brain during trust decisions. Here we use an event-related functional MRI (fMRI) design to examine what neural signals correspond to experimentally manipulated reputations acquired in direct interactions during trust decisions. We hypothesized that the caudate (dorsal striatum) and putamen (ventral striatum) and amygdala would signal differential reputations during decision-making. Twenty-nine healthy adults underwent fMRI scanning while completing an iterated Trust Game as trusters with three fictive trustee partners who had different tendencies to reciprocate (i.e., likelihood of rewarding the truster), which were learned over multiple exchanges with real-time feedback. We show that the caudate (both left and right) signals reputation during trust decisions, such that caudate is more active to partners with two types of &quot;bad&quot; reputations, either indifferent partners (who reciprocate 50% of the time) or unfair partners (who reciprocate 25% of the time), than to those with &quot;good&quot; reputations (who reciprocate 75% of the time). Further, individual differences in caudate activity related to biases in trusting behavior in the most uncertain situation, i.e. when facing an indifferent partner. We also report on other areas that were activated by reputation at p &lt; 0.05 whole brain corrected. Our findings suggest that the caudate is involved in signaling and integrating reputations gained through experience into trust decisions, demonstrating a neural basis for this key social process.
Pannexin1 (Panx1) is a plasma membrane channel permeable to relatively large molecules, such as ATP. In the central nervous system (CNS) Panx1 is found in neurons and glia and in the immune system in macrophages and T-cells. We tested the hypothesis that Panx1-mediated ATP release contributes to expression of Experimental Autoimmune Encephalomyelitis (EAE), an animal model for multiple sclerosis, using wild-type (WT) and Panx1 knockout (KO) mice. Panx1 KO mice displayed a delayed onset of clinical signs of EAE and decreased mortality compared to WT mice, but developed as severe symptoms as the surviving WT mice. Spinal cord inflammatory lesions were also reduced in Panx1 KO EAE mice during acute disease. Additionally, pharmacologic inhibition of Panx1 channels with mefloquine (MFQ) reduced severity of acute and chronic EAE when administered before or after onset of clinical signs. ATP release and YoPro uptake were significantly increased in WT mice with EAE as compared to WT non-EAE and reduced in tissues of EAE Panx1 KO mice. Interestingly, we found that the P2X7 receptor was upregulated in the chronic phase of EAE in both WT and Panx1 KO spinal cords. Such increase in receptor expression is likely to counterbalance the decrease in ATP release recorded from Panx1 KO mice and thus contribute to the development of EAE symptoms in these mice. The present study shows that a Panx1 dependent mechanism (ATP release and/or inflammasome activation) contributes to disease progression, and that inhibition of Panx1 using pharmacology or gene disruption delays and attenuates clinical signs of EAE.
Cognitive impairment occurs in both schizophrenia and diabetes. There is currently limited understanding whether schizophrenia with diabetes has more serious cognitive deficits than schizophrenia without diabetes or diabetes only. This study assessed cognitive performance in 190 healthy controls, 106 diabetes only, 127 schizophrenia without diabetes and 55 schizophrenia with diabetes. This study was conducted from January 2008 to December 2010. Compared to healthy controls, all patient groups had significantly decreased total and five index RBANS scores (all p&lt;0.01-p&lt;0.001), except for the visuospatial/constructional index. Schizophrenia with diabetes performed worse than schizophrenia without diabetes in immediate memory (p&lt;0.01) and total RBANS scores (&lt;0.05), and showed a trend for decreased attention (p=0.052) and visuospatial/constructional capacity (p=0.063). Schizophrenia with diabetes performed worse than diabetes only in immediate memory (p&lt;0.001) and attention (p&lt;0.05), and showed a trend for decreased total RBANS scores (p=0.069). Regression analysis showed that the RBANS had modest correlations with schizophrenia' PANSS scores, their duration of current antipsychotic treatment, and diagnosis of diabetes. Schizophrenia with co-morbid diabetes showed more cognitive impairment than schizophrenia without diabetes and diabetes only, especially in immediate memory and attention.

Synapsins are a family of neuronal phosphoproteins associated with the cytosolic surface of synaptic vesicles. Experimental evidence suggests a role for synapsins in synaptic vesicle clustering and recycling at the presynaptic terminal, as well as in neuronal development and synaptogenesis. Synapsin knock-out (Syn1(-/-) ) mice display an epileptic phenotype and mutations in the SYN1 gene have been identified in individuals affected by epilepsy and/or autism spectrum disorder. We investigated the impact of the c.1067G&gt;A nonsense transition, the first mutation described in a family affected by X-linked syndromic epilepsy, on the expression and functional properties of the synapsin I protein. We found that the presence of a premature termination codon in the human SYN1 transcript renders it susceptible to nonsense-mediated mRNA decay (NMD). Given that the NMD efficiency is highly variable among individuals and cell types, we investigated also the effects of expression of the mutant protein and found that it is expressed at lower levels compared to wild-type synapsin I, forms perinuclear aggregates and is unable to reach presynaptic terminals in mature hippocampal neurons grown in culture. Taken together, these data indicate that in patients carrying the W356 mutation the function of synapsin I is markedly impaired, due to both the strongly decreased translation and the altered function of the NMD-escaped protein, and support the value of Syn1(-/-) mice as an experimental model mimicking the human pathology.
Calcium-signaling in cells requires a fine-tuned system of calcium-transport proteins involving ion channels, exchangers, and ion-pumps but also calcium-sensor proteins and their targets. Thus, control of physiological responses very often depends on incremental changes of the cytoplasmic calcium concentration, which are sensed by calcium-binding proteins and are further transmitted to specific target proteins. This Review will focus on calcium-signaling in vertebrate photoreceptor cells, where recent physiological and biochemical data indicate that a subset of neuronal calcium sensor proteins named guanylate cyclase-activating proteins (GCAPs) operate in a calcium-relay system, namely, to make gradual responses to small changes in calcium. We will further integrate this mechanism in an existing computational model of phototransduction showing that it is consistent and compatible with the dynamics that are characteristic for the precise operation of the phototransduction pathways.


Dendritic spines are small protrusions that serve as the principal recipients of excitatory inputs onto cortical pyramidal cells. Alterations in spine and filopodia density and morphology correlate with both developmental maturity and changes in synaptic strength. In order to better understand the developmental profile of dendritic protrusion (dendritic spines+filopodia) morphology and density over the animal's first postnatal year, we used the Golgi staining technique to label neurons and their dendritic protrusions in mice. We focused on quantifying the density per length of dendrite and categorizing the morphology of dendritic protrusions of layer VI pyramidal neurons residing in barrel cortex using the computer assisted reconstruction program Neurolucida. We classified dendritic protrusion densities at seven developmental time points: postnatal day (PND) 15, 30, 60, 90, 180, 270, and 360. Our findings suggest that the dendritic protrusions in layer VI barrel cortex pyramidal neurons are not static, and their density as well as relative morphological distribution change over time. We observed a significant increase in mushroom spines and a decrease in filopodia as the animals matured. Further analyses show that as the animal mature there was a reduction in pyramidal cell dendritic lengths overall, as well as a decrease in overall protrusion densities. The ratio of apical to basilar density decreased as well. Characterizing the profile of cortical layer VI dendritic protrusions within the first postnatal year will enable us to better understand the relationship between the overall developmental maturation profile and dendritic spine functioning.

We developed a novel calcium (Ca(2+)) channel agonist that is selective for N- and P/Q-type Ca(2+) channels, which are the Ca(2+) channels that regulate transmitter release at most synapses. We have shown that this new molecule (GV-58) slows the deactivation of channels, resulting in a large increase in presynaptic Ca(2+) entry during activity. GV-58 was developed as a modification of (R)-roscovitine, which was previously shown to be a Ca(2+) channel agonist, in addition to its known cyclin-dependent kinase activity. In comparison with the parent molecule, (R)-roscovitine, GV-58 has a 20-fold less potent cyclin-dependent kinase antagonist effect, a 3- to 4-fold more potent Ca(2+) channel agonist effect, and 4-fold higher efficacy as a Ca(2+) channel agonist. We have further evaluated GV-58 in a passive transfer mouse model of Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome and have shown that weakened Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome-model neuromuscular synapses are significantly strengthened following exposure to GV-58. This new Ca(2+) channel agonist has potential as a lead compound in the development of new therapeutic approaches to a variety of disorders that result in neuromuscular weakness.
It is debated whether subregions within the medial temporal lobe (MTL), in particular the hippocampus (HC) and perirhinal cortex (PrC), play domain-sensitive roles in learning. In the present study, two patients with differing degrees of MTL damage were first exposed to pairs of highly similar scenes, faces, and dot patterns and then asked to make repeated same/different decisions to preexposed and nonexposed (novel) pairs from the three categories (Experiment 1). We measured whether patients would show a benefit of prior exposure (preexposed &gt; nonexposed) and whether repetition of nonexposed (and preexposed) pairs at test would benefit discrimination accuracy. Although selective HC damage impaired learning of scenes, but not faces and dot patterns, broader MTL damage involving the HC and PrC compromised discrimination learning of scenes and faces but left dot pattern learning unaffected. In Experiment 2, a similar task was run in healthy young participants in the MRI scanner. Functional region-of-interest analyses revealed that posterior HC and posterior parahippocampal gyrus showed greater activity during scene pattern learning, but not face and dot pattern learning, whereas PrC, anterior HC, and posterior fusiform gyrus were recruited during discrimination learning for faces, but not scenes and dot pattern learning. Critically, activity in posterior HC and PrC, but not the other functional region-of-interest analyses, was modulated by accuracy (correct &gt; incorrect within a preferred category). Therefore, both approaches revealed a key role for the HC and PrC in discrimination learning, which is consistent with representational accounts in which subregions in these MTL structures store complex spatial and object representations, respectively.
Critical periods of developmental plasticity contribute to the refinement of neural connections that broadly shape brain development. These windows of plasticity are thought to be important for the maturation of perception, language, and cognition. Synaptic properties in cortical regions that underlie critical periods influence the onset and duration of windows, although it remains unclear how mechanisms that shape synapse development alter critical-period properties. In this study, we demonstrate that inactivation of a single copy of syngap1, which causes a surprisingly common form of sporadic, non-syndromic intellectual disability with autism in humans, induced widespread early functional maturation of excitatory connections in the mouse neocortex. This accelerated functional maturation was observed across distinct areas and layers of neocortex and directly influenced the duration of a critical-period synaptic plasticity associated with experience-dependent refinement of cortical maps. These studies support the idea that genetic control over synapse maturation influences the duration of critical-period plasticity windows. These data also suggest that critical-period duration links synapse maturation rates to the development of intellectual ability.
The RNA-binding protein Hermes [RNA-binding protein with multiple splicing (RBPMS)] is expressed exclusively in retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) in the CNS, but its function in these cells is not known. Here we show that Hermes protein translocates in granules from RGC bodies down the growing axons. Hermes loss of function in both Xenopus laevis and zebrafish embryos leads to a significant reduction in retinal axon arbor complexity in the optic tectum, and expression of a dominant acting mutant Hermes protein, defective in RNA-granule localization, causes similar defects in arborization. Time-lapse analysis of branch dynamics reveals that the decrease in arbor complexity is caused by a reduction in new branches rather than a decrease in branch stability. Surprisingly, Hermes depletion also leads to enhanced early visual behavior and an increase in the density of presynaptic puncta, suggesting that reduced arborization is accompanied by increased synaptogenesis to maintain synapse number.
A major goal in current neuroscience is to understand the causal links connecting protein functions, neural activity, and behavior. The cannabinoid CB1 receptor is expressed in different neuronal subpopulations, and is engaged in fine-tuning excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmission. Studies using conditional knock-out mice revealed necessary roles of CB1 receptor expressed in dorsal telencephalic glutamatergic neurons in synaptic plasticity and behavior, but whether this expression is also sufficient for brain functions is still to be determined. We applied a genetic strategy to reconstitute full wild-type CB1 receptor functions exclusively in dorsal telencephalic glutamatergic neurons and investigated endocannabinoid-dependent synaptic processes and behavior. Using this approach, we partly restored the phenotype of global CB1 receptor deletion in anxiety-like behaviors and fully restored hippocampus-dependent neuroprotection from chemically induced epileptiform seizures. These features coincided with a rescued hippocampal depolarization-induced suppression of excitation (DSE), a CB1 receptor-dependent form of synaptic plasticity at glutamatergic neurons. By comparison, the rescue of the CB1 receptor on dorsal telencephalic glutamatergic neurons prolonged the time course of DSE in the amygdala, and impaired fear extinction in auditory fear conditioning. These data reveal that CB1 receptor in dorsal telencephalic glutamatergic neurons plays a sufficient role to control neuronal functions that are in large part hippocampus-dependent, while it is insufficient for proper amygdala functions, suggesting an unexpectedly complex circuit regulation by endocannabinoid signaling in the amygdala. Our data pave the way to a better understanding of neuronal networks in the context of behavior, by fine-tuned interference with synaptic transmission processes.
Prior knowledge, in the form of a mental schema or framework, is viewed to facilitate the learning of new information in a range of experimental and everyday scenarios. Despite rising interest in the cognitive and neural mechanisms underlying schema-driven facilitation of new learning, few paradigms have been developed to examine this issue in humans. Here we develop a multiphase experimental scenario aimed at characterizing schema-based effects in the context of a paradigm that has been very widely used across species, the transitive inference task. We show that an associative schema, comprised of prior knowledge of the rank positions of familiar items in the hierarchy, has a marked effect on transitivity performance and the development of relational knowledge of the hierarchy that cannot be accounted for by more general changes in task strategy. Further, we show that participants are capable of deploying prior knowledge to successful effect under surprising conditions (i.e., when corrective feedback is totally absent), but only when the associative schema is robust. Finally, our results provide insights into the cognitive mechanisms underlying such schema-driven effects, and suggest that new hierarchy learning in the transitive inference task can occur through a contextual transfer mechanism that exploits the structure of associative experiences.

Increasing evidence shows that sortilin (encoded by SORT1 gene), a member of the vacuolar protein sorting 10 family of sorting receptors, can modulate amyloid- peptides (A) metabolism and clearance, as well as mediate the neurotoxicity of the A oligomer and proneurotrophins, thus playing diverse roles in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. To assess the association between single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) of the SORT1 gene and sporadic Alzheimer's disease (sAD) in the Chinese Han population, a case-control study was carried out including 220 sAD patients and 245 controls. One tag SNP was selected from the entire SORT1 gene through construction of linkage disequilibrium blocks, and three SNPs located in the vicinity of SORT1 that affect its expression were also selected. The four target SNPs were genotyped using a multiplex PCR-ligase detection reaction method, yielding no significant association between them or haplotypes containing three of them, and the risk of sAD. The results of this study indicate that polymorphisms of the SORT1 gene are unlikely to confer the risk of sAD in the Chinese Han population.
This work investigates the impact of task load on irrelevant emotional voice processing between the sexes. The working memory task was manipulated by asking participants to evaluate the position of a visual stimulus (0-back) and compare the position of the current stimulus with the one or two trials before (1-back and 2-back). We recorded auditory event-related potentials while presenting the emotionally spoken syllables 'dada' and acoustically matched nonvocal sounds to healthy adults. Women, not men, showed larger amplitudes of emotional mismatch negativity (MMN), presumed to reflect preattentive auditory change detection, during the 1-back task than the 0-back and 2-back tasks. Among women only weaker emotional MMN amplitudes were associated with a higher 2-back accuracy. Neither task difficulty nor sex had any effect on MMN when responding to nonvocal sounds. Our findings suggest that there are sex differences in preattentive emotional voice processing under varying levels of task load.
Increased coherence imaging values, as determined by magnetoencephalography, are indicative of increased neural excitability. The purpose of this investigation was to examine coherence imaging values in patients suffering from panic disorder (PD). We also ascertained whether regions with increased coherence had higher representation in the limbic frontotemporal regions (LFTRs). The highest coherence imaging values and their locations, among 54 Brodmann areas, were determined in six PD patients and six age-matched healthy controls. Magnetoencephalography scans were acquired using 148 magnetometer channels and 32 simultaneous EEG channels. Despite the small sample size, coherence imaging values were significantly higher in PD patients. Brain regions with increased coherence were significantly more in areas typically associated with LFTRs in PD patients when compared with controls. The above data suggest that coherence values may be increased in LFTRs of patients with PD. Recent advances in epilepsy research suggest that increased coherence may reflect increased excitability in these brain regions. On the basis of the data provided here as well as in the available literature, we propose that additional research examining coherence values in LFTRs of PD patients could inform the choice of medication in this patient population, with increased coherence (i.e. increased excitability) being a biomarker for favorable responses to medications that limit excitatory transmission, such as benzodiazepines or antiseizure drugs.





Although the firing activity of dopamine (DA) neurons in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) and the behavioral response to morphine rewarding properties alter as opiate withdrawal, little is known about the dynamic changes in DA signal pathway from the VTA to the nucleus accumbens (NAc) during prolonged withdrawal, and whether the changes are indicative of vulnerability to relapse of drug abuse. Here we report that morphine spontaneously withdrawn (SW) rats are incapable of responding to small dose of morphine-induced conditioned place preference (CPP) from 24h-SW to 30d-SW, but recover response at 45d-SW. Interestingly, mesoaccumbens DA signaling, including the firing of DA neurons in the VTA, contents of DA and its metabolic ratio, and the membrane level of dopamine D1 receptor in the NAc elicited by morphine challenge, display a similar pattern of time-dependent changes during morphine withdrawal. Moreover, blockade of D1 receptor abolishes this behavioral transition. In addition, a strong correlation was found between % change in CPP score and membrane D1 receptor level induced by morphine challenge. These results indicate a time-dependent behavioral switch from tolerance to sensitization during the prolonged withdrawal, which could offer a window for therapeutic intervention via manipulations of D1 receptors.
Whereas the classical histological hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD) are deposition of amyloid-containing plaques and development of neurofibrillary tangles, there is also clear evidence of inflammatory changes accompanied by the presence of activated microglia and astrocytosis. However, at this time, it remains uncertain whether inflammatory changes contribute to pathogenesis of the disease or if they are secondary to deposition of amyloid- or other pathological changes. A greater understanding of the sequence of events would clearly improve development of strategies to delay progression of the disease. There is a realistic expectation that advances in imaging technology may provide the key to uncovering this sequence. In this study, we employed non-invasive imaging techniques to examine changes in tissue state in hippocampus and cortex of transgenic mice which overexpress amyloid- protein precursor and presenilin 1 and show that the observed increase in T1 relaxation time was associated with astrogliosis while the decrease in T2 relaxation time was associated with microglial activation. We explored the possibility that interferon- might trigger glial activation and demonstrate a genotype-related infiltration of macrophages and natural killer cells, which release interferon-. The evidence suggests that IFN triggers glial activation and expression of proinflammatory cytokines, and these changes, in turn, contribute to the decrease in long-term potentiation.
Bioluminescence imaging (BLI) has shown to be crucial for monitoring in vivo biological processes. So far, only dual bioluminescence imaging using firefly (Fluc) and Renilla or Gaussia (Gluc) luciferase has been achieved due to the lack of availability of other efficiently expressed luciferases using different substrates. Here, we characterized a codon-optimized luciferase from Vargula hilgendorfii (Vluc) as a reporter for mammalian gene expression. We showed that Vluc can be multiplexed with Gluc and Fluc for sequential imaging of three distinct cellular phenomena in the same biological system using vargulin, coelenterazine, and D-luciferin substrates, respectively. We applied this triple imaging system to monitor the effect of soluble tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (sTRAIL) delivered using an adeno-associated viral vector (AAV) on brain tumors in mice. Vluc imaging showed efficient sTRAIL gene delivery to the brain, while Fluc imaging revealed a robust antiglioma therapy. Further, nuclear factor-B (NF-B) activation in response to sTRAIL binding to glioma cells death receptors was monitored by Gluc imaging. This work is the first demonstration of trimodal in vivo bioluminescence imaging and will have a broad applicability in many different fields including immunology, oncology, virology, and neuroscience.Molecular Therapy - Nucleic Acids (2013) 2, e99; doi:10.1038/mtna.2013.25; published online 18 June 2013.
The present work aimed at the development and application of a lipid-based nanocarrier for targeted delivery of nucleic acids to glioblastoma (GBM). For this purpose, chlorotoxin (CTX), a peptide reported to bind selectively to glioma cells while showing no affinity for non-neoplastic cells, was covalently coupled to liposomes encapsulating antisense oligonucleotides (asOs) or small interfering RNAs (siRNAs). The resulting targeted nanoparticles, designated CTX-coupled stable nucleic acid lipid particles (SNALPs), exhibited excellent features for in vivo application, namely small size (&lt;180nm) and neutral surface charge. Cellular association and internalization studies revealed that attachment of CTX onto the liposomal surface enhanced particle internalization into glioma cells, whereas no significant internalization was observed in noncancer cells. Moreover, nanoparticle-mediated miR-21 silencing in U87 human GBM and GL261 mouse glioma cells resulted in increased levels of the tumor suppressors PTEN and PDCD4, caspase 3/7 activation and decreased tumor cell proliferation. Preliminary in vivo studies revealed that CTX enhances particle internalization into established intracranial tumors. Overall, our results indicate that the developed targeted nanoparticles represent a valuable tool for targeted nucleic acid delivery to cancer cells. Combined with a drug-based therapy, nanoparticle-mediated miR-21 silencing constitutes a promising multimodal therapeutic approach towards GBM.Molecular Therapy-Nucleic Acids (2013) 2, e100; doi:10.1038/mtna.2013.30; published online 18 June 2013.


Schizophrenia patients demonstrate perceptual deficits consistent with broad dysfunction in visual context processing. These include poor integration of segments forming visual contours, and reduced visual contrast effects (e.g. weaker orientation-dependent surround suppression, ODSS). Background image context can influence contour perception, as stimuli near the contour affect detection accuracy. Because of ODSS, this contextual modulation depends on the relative orientation between the contour and flanking elements, with parallel flankers impairing contour perception. However in schizophrenia, the impact of abnormal ODSS during contour perception is not clear. It is also unknown whether deficient contour perception marks genetic liability for schizophrenia, or is strictly associated with clinical expression of this disorder. We examined contour detection in 25 adults with schizophrenia, 13 unaffected first-degree biological relatives of schizophrenia patients, and 28 healthy controls. Subjects performed a psychophysics experiment designed to quantify the effect of flanker orientation during contour detection. Overall, patients with schizophrenia showed poorer contour detection performance than relatives or controls. Parallel flankers suppressed and orthogonal flankers enhanced contour detection performance for all groups, but parallel suppression was relatively weaker for schizophrenia patients than healthy controls. Relatives of patients showed equivalent performance with controls. Computational modeling suggested that abnormal contextual modulation in schizophrenia may be explained by suppression that is more broadly tuned for orientation. Abnormal flanker suppression in schizophrenia is consistent with weaker ODSS and/or broader orientation tuning. This work provides the first evidence that such perceptual abnormalities may not be associated with a genetic liability for schizophrenia.









A distinctive feature across human societies is our interest in justice and fairness. People will sometimes invest in extremely costly behavior to achieve fair outcomes for themselves and others. Why do people care so much about justice? One way to address this is comparatively, exploring behaviors related to justice and fairness in other species. In this paper, I review work exploring responses to inequity, prosocial behavior, and other relevant behaviors in nonhuman primates in an effort to understand both the potential evolutionary function of these behaviors and the social and ecological reasons for the individual differences in behavior. I also consider how these behaviors relate to human behavior, particularly in the case of experimental studies using games derived from experimental economics to compare nonhuman primates' responses to those of humans in similar experimental conditions. These results emphasize the importance of a comparative approach to better understand the function and diversity of human behavior.
Music has existed in human societies since prehistory, perhaps because it allows expression and regulation of emotion and evokes pleasure. In this review, we present findings from cognitive neuroscience that bear on the question of how we get from perception of sound patterns to pleasurable responses. First, we identify some of the auditory cortical circuits that are responsible for encoding and storing tonal patterns and discuss evidence that cortical loops between auditory and frontal cortices are important for maintaining musical information in working memory and for the recognition of structural regularities in musical patterns, which then lead to expectancies. Second, we review evidence concerning the mesolimbic striatal system and its involvement in reward, motivation, and pleasure in other domains. Recent data indicate that this dopaminergic system mediates pleasure associated with music; specifically, reward value for music can be coded by activity levels in the nucleus accumbens, whose functional connectivity with auditory and frontal areas increases as a function of increasing musical reward. We propose that pleasure in music arises from interactions between cortical loops that enable predictions and expectancies to emerge from sound patterns and subcortical systems responsible for reward and valuation.
Are animals conscious? If so, when did consciousness evolve? We address these long-standing and essential questions using a modern neuroscientific approach that draws on diverse fields such as consciousness studies, evolutionary neurobiology, animal psychology, and anesthesiology. We propose that the stepwise emergence from general anesthesia can serve as a reproducible model to study the evolution of consciousness across various species and use current data from anesthesiology to shed light on the phylogeny of consciousness. Ultimately, we conclude that the neurobiological structure of the vertebrate central nervous system is evolutionarily ancient and highly conserved across species and that the basic neurophysiologic mechanisms supporting consciousness in humans are found at the earliest points of vertebrate brain evolution. Thus, in agreement with Darwin's insight and the recent &quot;Cambridge Declaration on Consciousness in Non-Human Animals,&quot; a review of modern scientific data suggests that the differences between species in terms of the ability to experience the world is one of degree and not kind.
Sensory abnormalities such as numbness and paresthesias are often the earliest symptoms in neuroinflammatory diseases including multiple sclerosis. The increased production of various cytokines occurs in the early stages of neuroinflammation and could have detrimental effects on the central nervous system, thereby contributing to sensory and cognitive deficits. However, it remains unknown whether and when elevation of cytokines causes changes in brain structure and function under inflammatory conditions. To address this question, we used a mouse model for experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) to examine the effect of inflammation and cytokine elevation on synaptic connections in the primary somatosensory cortex. Using in vivo two-photon microscopy, we found that the elimination and formation rates of dendritic spines and axonal boutons increased within 7 d of EAE induction--several days before the onset of paralysis--and continued to rise during the course of the disease. This synaptic instability occurred before T-cell infiltration and microglial activation in the central nervous system and was in conjunction with peripheral, but not central, production of TNF-. Peripheral administration of a soluble TNF inhibitor prevented abnormal turnover of dendritic spines and axonal boutons in presymptomatic EAE mice. These findings indicate that peripheral production of TNF- is a key mediator of synaptic instability in the primary somatosensory cortex and may contribute to sensory and cognitive deficits seen in autoimmune diseases.
Marital discord is costly to children, families, and communities. The advent of the Internet, social networking, and on-line dating has affected how people meet future spouses, but little is known about the prevalence or outcomes of these marriages or the demographics of those involved. We addressed these questions in a nationally representative sample of 19,131 respondents who married between 2005 and 2012. Results indicate that more than one-third of marriages in America now begin on-line. In addition, marriages that began on-line, when compared with those that began through traditional off-line venues, were slightly less likely to result in a marital break-up (separation or divorce) and were associated with slightly higher marital satisfaction among those respondents who remained married. Demographic differences were identified between respondents who met their spouse through on-line vs. traditional off-line venues, but the findings for marital break-up and marital satisfaction remained significant after statistically controlling for these differences. These data suggest that the Internet may be altering the dynamics and outcomes of marriage itself.
It is commonly assumed that early emotional signals provide relevant information for social cognition tasks. The goal of this study was to test the association between (a) cortical markers of face emotional processing and (b) social-cognitive measures, and also to build a model which can predict this association (a and b) in healthy volunteers as well as in different groups of psychiatric patients. Thus, we investigated the early cortical processing of emotional stimuli (N170, using a face and word valence task) and their relationship with the social-cognitive profiles (SCPs, indexed by measures of theory of mind, fluid intelligence, speed processing and executive functions). Group comparisons and individual differences were assessed among schizophrenia (SCZ) patients and their relatives, individuals with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), individuals with euthymic bipolar disorder (BD) and healthy participants (educational level, handedness, age and gender matched). Our results provide evidence of emotional N170 impairments in the affected groups (SCZ and relatives, ADHD and BD) as well as subtle group differences. Importantly, cortical processing of emotional stimuli predicted the SCP, as evidenced by a structural equation model analysis. This is the first study to report an association model of brain markers of emotional processing and SCP.
Fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP) is an RNA-binding protein that targets 5% of all mRNAs expressed in the brain. Previous work by our laboratory demonstrated significantly lower protein levels for FMRP in lateral cerebella of subjects with schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and major depression when compared with controls. Absence of FMRP expression in animal models of fragile X syndrome (FXS) has been shown to reduce expression of gamma-aminobutyric acid A (GABAA) receptor mRNAs. Previous work by our laboratory has found reduced expression of FMRP, as well as multiple GABAA and GABAB receptor subunits in subjects with autism. Less is known about levels for GABAA subunit protein expression in brains of subjects with schizophrenia and mood disorders. In the current study, we have expanded our previous studies to examine the protein and mRNA expression of two novel GABAA receptors, theta (GABR) and rho 2 (GABR2) as well as FMRP, and metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 (mGluR5) in lateral cerebella of subjects with schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, major depression and healthy controls, and in superior frontal cortex (Brodmann Area 9 (BA9)) of subjects with schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and healthy controls. We observed multiple statistically significant mRNA and protein changes in levels of GABR, GABR2, mGluR5 and FMRP molecules including concordant reductions in mRNA and proteins for GABR and mGluR5 in lateral cerebella of subjects with schizophrenia; for increased mRNA and protein for GABR2 in lateral cerebella of subjects with bipolar disorder; and for reduced mRNA and protein for mGluR5 in BA9 of subjects with bipolar disorder. There were no significant effects of confounds on any of the results.

Adverse early life experiences (aELEs), such as child abuse, neglect, or trauma, increase lifetime vulnerability for mental illness. In this study, aELEs were modeled in c57bl/6 mice using the maternal separation (MS) paradigm, in which pups were separated for 180 min/day (MS180), 15 min/day (MS15), or left undisturbed (AFR) from postnatal day 2-14. As adults, pups that experienced MS15 or MS180 demonstrated decreases in tryptophan hydroxylase 2 and serotonin transporter mRNA in the dorsal raphe dorsalis and ventralis, and increases in glucocorticoid receptor mRNA in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus. To investigate factors underlying shared expression between MS conditions, dam on-nest time and DNA methylation at the TPH2 promoter and 5' UTR were assessed. Post-reunion on-nest time increased as a function of separation duration, potentially serving as a mitigating factor underlying similar expression between MS conditions. TPH2 DNA methylation remained unchanged, suggesting changes in TPH2 mRNA are not mediated by changes in DNA methylation of this region. The shared pattern of expression between MS15 and MS180 conditions suggests a species- or strain- specific response to MS unique to c57bl/6 mice.
Excitatory neurons undergo dendritic spine remodeling in response to different stimuli. However, there is scarce information about this type of plasticity in interneurons. The polysialylated form of the neural cell adhesion molecule (PSA-NCAM) is a good candidate to mediate this plasticity as it participates in neuronal remodeling and is expressed by some mature cortical interneurons, which have reduced dendritic arborization, spine density, and synaptic input. To study the connectivity of the dendritic spines of interneurons and the influence of PSA-NCAM on their dynamics, we have analyzed these structures in a subpopulation of fluorescent spiny interneurons in the hippocampus of glutamic acid decarboxylase-enhanced green fluorescent protein transgenic mice. Our results show that these spines receive excitatory synapses. The depletion of PSA in vivo using the enzyme Endo-Neuraminidase-N (Endo-N) increases spine density when analyzed 2 days after, but decreases it 7 days after. The dendritic spine turnover was also analyzed in real time using organotypic hippocampal cultures: 24 h after the addition of EndoN, we observed an increase in the apparition rate of spines. These results indicate that dendritic spines are important structures in the control of the synaptic input of hippocampal interneurons and suggest that PSA-NCAM is relevant in the regulation of their morphology and connectivity.

Voices or faces that fall outside of the norm are the memorable ones. Recent human neuroimaging work, however, indicates that the average voice holds considerable currency for neuronal coding. The study also forges a bridge with the face recognition literature.
Listeners exploit small interindividual variations around a generic acoustical structure to discriminate and identify individuals from their voice-a key requirement for social interactions. The human brain contains temporal voice areas (TVA) involved in an acoustic-based representation of voice identity, but the underlying coding mechanisms remain unknown. Indirect evidence suggests that identity representation in these areas could rely on a norm-based coding mechanism. Here, we show by using fMRI that voice identity is coded in the TVA as a function of acoustical distance to two internal voice prototypes (one male, one female)-approximated here by averaging a large number of same-gender voices by using morphing. Voices more distant from their prototype are perceived as more distinctive and elicit greater neuronal activity in voice-sensitive cortex than closer voices-a phenomenon not merely explained by neuronal adaptation. Moreover, explicit manipulations of distance-to-mean by morphing voices toward (or away from) their prototype elicit reduced (or enhanced) neuronal activity. These results indicate that voice-sensitive cortex integrates relevant acoustical features into a complex representation referenced to idealized male and female voice prototypes. More generally, they shed light on remarkable similarities in cerebral representations of facial and vocal identity.
Several lines of evidence support that methamphetamine (METH) toxicity plays a pivotal role in neurodegenerative diseases. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying METH-induced neurotoxicity are still unclear. In addition, Ras modulated death signaling has been continually reported in several cell types. In this study, intracellular Ras-dependent death signaling cascade activation was proposed to contribute to METH-induced neuronal cell degeneration in dopaminergic SH-SY5Y cultured cells. Exposure to a toxic dose of METH significantly decreased cell viability, and tyrosine hydroxylase phosphorylation, but increased c-Jun phosphorylation and active, GTP-bound Ras in cultured SH-SY5Y cells. Farnesyltransferase inhibitor, FTI-277, an inhibitor of the enzyme catalyzed the farnesylation of Ras proteins was able to diminish the toxic effects of METH on induction in cell degeneration, activation in c-Jun-N-terminal kinase cascades, and Ras activation in SH-SY5Y cells. The results of this study show that activation in Ras signaling cascade may be implicated in the METH-induced death signaling pathway in neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells.
