




Anti-Gal is a natural antibody specific for the alpha-galactosyl epitope. Previous studies suggested that Graves' disease (GD) patients had elevated anti-Gal titers compared to normal controls, but titers returned to normal after treatment. We developed an anti-Gal enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) using the property of anti-Gal to bind tightly to mouse laminin. We found no significant correlations between anti-Gal and thyroidstimulating immunoglobulin (TSI) or free thyroxine (T(4)) in untreated hyperthyroid GD patients (n = 15) without clinical ophthalmopathy or euthyroid, previously treated GD patients with ophthalmopathy. There was a significant regression between TSI and free T(4) in the hyperthyroid patients (p &lt; 0.01). Addition of total anti- Gal antibody to the regression showed a trend toward improved correlation (p = 0.15 for improved correlation relative to TSI and free T(4) alone), suggesting it may stimulate GD thyroid tissue. However, in contrast to previous studies we found hyperthyroid patients (n = 20) had lower levels of anti-Gal immunoglobulin G (IgG) (18.4 +/- 4.0 vs. 41.8 +/- 8.9) than normals (n = 36 p &lt; 0.05). Interestingly, hyperthyroid patients without clinical ophthalmopathy tended to have lower IgG anti-Gal levels than euthyroid patients with ophthalmopathy (p = 0.1). Hyperthyroidism significantly lowers anti-Gal, but the possible increase of anti-Gal in patients with ophthalmopathy suggests anti-Gal may play a role in ophthalmopathy, or may reflect the euthryoid status of these patients. This trend needs further study.
Mechanisms of selective attention are vital for coherent perception and action. Recent advances in cognitive neuroscience have yielded key insights into the relationship between neural mechanisms of attention and eye movements, and the role of frontal and parietal brain regions as sources of attentional control. Here we explore the growing contribution of reversible neurodisruption techniques, including transcranial magnetic stimulation and microelectrode stimulation, to the cognitive neuroscience of spatial attention. These approaches permit unique causal inferences concerning the relationship between neural processes and behaviour, and have revealed fundamental mechanisms of attention in the human and animal brain. We conclude by suggesting that further advances in the neuroscience of attention will be facilitated by the combination of neurodisruption techniques with established neuroimaging methods.
Detailed computational modeling of human memory has typically been aimed at either short-term (working) memory or long-term memory in isolation. However, recent research highlights the importance of interactions between these systems for both item and order information. At the same time, computational models of both systems are beginning to converge onto a common framework in which items are associated with an evolving &quot;context&quot; signal and subsequently compete with one another at recall. We review some of these models, and discuss a common mechanism capable of modelling working memory and its interaction with long-term memory, focussing on memory for verbal sequences.
Olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs) expressing the same odorant receptor gene share ligand-receptor affinity profiles and converge onto common glomerular targets in the brain. The activation patterns of different ORN populations, evoked by differential binding of odorant molecular moieties, constitute the primary odor representation. However, odorants possess properties other than receptor-binding sites that can contribute to odorant discrimination. Among terrestrial vertebrates, odorant sorptiveness--volatility and water solubility--imposes physicochemical constraints on migration through the nose during inspiration. The non-uniform distributions of ORN populations along the inspiratory axis enable sorptiveness to modify odor representations by affecting the number of molecules reaching different receptors during a sniff. Animals can then modify and analyze odor representation further by the dynamic regulation of sniffing.
Unraveling the functional role of neuromodulatory systems has been a major challenge for cognitive neuroscience, giving rise to theories ranging from a simple role in vigilance to complex models concerning decision making, prediction errors or unexpected uncertainty. A new, simplified and overarching theory of noradrenaline function is inspired by an invertebrate model: neuromodulators in crustacea abruptly interrupt activity in neural networks and reorganize the elements into new functional networks determining the behavioral output. Analogously in mammals, phasic activation of noradrenergic neurons of the locus coeruleus in time with cognitive shifts could provoke or facilitate dynamic reorganization of target neural networks, permitting rapid behavioral adaptation to changing environmental imperatives. Detailed analysis and discussion of extensive electrophysiological data from the locus coeruleus of rats and monkeys in controlled behavioral situations is provided here to support this view. This simplified 'new look' at locus coeruleus noradrenaline function redirects the challenge of understanding neuromodulatory systems towards their target networks, particularly to the dynamics of their interactions and how they organize adaptive behavior.
The molecular determinants of the ionic selectivity and single-channel conductance of the Cys-loop family of transmitter-gated ion channels are beginning to be understood with increasing precision, in part, as a result of the recent availability of refined ultrastructural information for the archetype of the family, the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR). Studies of another member of this family, the 5-HT(3) receptor, have now provided insight into the structure of its channel pore, the location of its gate and mechanisms of ion selectivity and translocation. The anomaly of the extremely low single-channel conductance of the homo-oligomeric 5-HT(3A) receptor has recently been solved, revealing that an intracellular domain of the protein is an important determinant of single-channel conductance. Such data are interpreted, in this article, in light of the most recent developments in structural characterization of the nAChR.
Nitric oxide (NO) is a free radical that is important in retinal signal transduction and cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) is a critical downstream messenger of NO. The NO/cGMP signaling pathway has been shown to modulate neurotransmitter release and gap junction coupling in horizontal cells and amacrine cells, and increase the gain of the light response in photoreceptors. However, many of the mechanisms controlling the production of NO and cGMP remain unclear. Previous studies have shown activation of NO/cGMP production in response to stimulation with N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) or nicotine, and the differential modulation of cGMP production by GABA(A) and GABA(C) receptors (GABA(A)Rs and GABA(C)Rs). This study used cGMP immunocytochemistry and NO imaging to investigate how the inhibitory GABAergic and glycinergic systems modulate the production of NO and cGMP. Our data show that blocking glycine receptors (GLYR) with strychnine (STRY) produced moderate increases in cGMP-like immunoreactivity (cGMP-LI) in select types of amacrine and bipolar cells, and strong increases in NO-induced fluorescence (NO-IF). TPMPA, a selective GABACR antagonist, greatly reduced the increases in cGMP-LI stimulated by STRY, but did not influence the increase in NO-IF stimulated by STRY. Bicuculline (BIC), a GABA(A)R antagonist, however, enhanced the increases in both the cGMP-LI and NO-IF stimulated by STRY. CNQX, a selective antagonist for alpha-Amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazoleproprionic acid hydrobromide/kainic acid (AMPA/KA) receptors, eliminated both the increases in cGMP-LI and NO-IF stimulated by STRY, while MK801, a selective antagonist for NMDA receptors, slightly increased the cGMP-LI and slightly decreased the NO-IF stimulated by STRY. Finally, double labeling of NO-stimulated cGMP and either GLY or GABA indicated that cGMP predominantly colocalized with GLY. Taken together, these findings support the hypothesis that GLY and GABA interact in the regulation of the NO/cGMP signaling pathway, where GLY primarily inhibits NO production and GABA has a greater effect on cGMP production. Such interacting inhibitory pathways could shape the course of signal transduction of the NO/cGMP pathway under different physiological situations.
Transgenic coneless mice were initially developed to study retinal function in the absence of cones. In coneless mice created by expressing an attenuated diphtheria toxin under the control of flanking sequences from the human L-cone opsin gene, a small number of cones (3-5% of the normal complement) survive in a retina that otherwise appears structurally quite normal. These cones predominantly ( approximately 87% of the total) contain UV-sensitive photopigment. ERG recordings, photoreceptor labeling, and behavioral measurements were conducted on coneless and wild-type mice to better understand how the nature of this alteration in receptor complement impacts vision. Signals from the small residual population of UV cones are readily detected in the flicker ERG where they yield signal amplitudes at saturation that are roughly proportional to the number of surviving cones. Behavioral measurements show that rod-based vision in coneless mice does not differ significantly from that of wild-type mice, nor does their rod system show any evidence of age-related deterioration. Coneless mice are able to make accurate rod-based visual discriminations at light levels well in excess of those required to reach cone threshold in wild-type mice.
Retinal development in 3 strains of rd-3/rd-3 mutant mice, previously shown to have different rates of degeneration, was studied using light, electron, and immunofluorescence microscopy. The time course and phenotype of the degeneration as well as details on the mechanism of massive photoreceptor cell loss are compared with other known retinal degenerations in mice. Up until postnatal day (P) 10, the retinas of all three strains (RBF, 4Bnr, In-30) develop similarly to those of pigmented and nonpigmented controls. TUNEL-positive cells appear in the outer nuclear layer (ONL) by P14, and reach a maximum in all three mutant strains around P21. Scattered rods and cones form a loose, monolayered ONL by 8 weeks in the albino RBF strain, by 10 weeks in the albino 4Bnr strain, and by 16 weeks in the pigmented In-30 strain. Though the initial degeneration begins in the central retina, there is no preferred gradient of cell death between central and peripheral photoreceptors. Rods and cones are present at all ages examined. During development, stacks of outer segments (OS) form in all three strains though they never achieve full adult lengths, and often have disorganized, atypical OS. Rod opsin is expressed in the developing OS but is redistributed into plasma membrane as OS degeneration proceeds. Retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cells of all mutant strains contain packets of phagocytosed OS, and their apical processes associate with the distal ends of the OS. At their synaptic sites, photoreceptor terminals contain ribbons apposed to apparently normal postsynaptic triads. As photoreceptors are lost, Mller cells fill in space in the ONL but they do not appear to undergo significant hypertrophy or migration, though during the degeneration, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) expression is gradually upregulated. Macrophage-like cells are found frequently in the subretinal space after the onset of photoreceptor apoptosis. As OS disappear, the RPE apical processes revert to simple microvilli. Late in the degeneration, some RPE cells die and neighboring cells appear to flatten as if to maintain confluence. In regions of RPE cell loss that happen to lie above retina where the ONL is gone, cells of the inner nuclear layer (INL), wrapped by Mller cell processes, may front directly on Bruch's membrane.
Using a transparent motion paradigm, [Valdes-Sosa, M., Bobes, M. A., Rodriguez, V., &amp; Pinilla, T. (1998). Switching attention without shifting the spotlight object-based attentional modulation of brain potentials, Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 10, 137-151; Valdes-Sosa, M., Cobo, A., &amp; Pinilla, T. (2000). Attention to object files defined by transparent motion, Journal of Experimental Psychological: Human Perception and Performance, 26, 488-505] found that when attention is endogenously directed to one surface, observers can more reliably report the direction of a brief translation of the cued than the uncued surface. Using a similar design [Reynolds, J. H., Alborzian, S., &amp; Stoner, G. R. (2003). Exogenously cued attention triggers competitive selection of surfaces, Vision Research, 43, 59-66] found that even in the absence of an endogenous cue, the first translation acted as a potent exogenous cue that impaired the observer's ability to discriminate a subsequent translation of the other surface. We investigated the neural basis of this exogenous cueing effect by recording visual event-related potentials (ERPs) elicited by translations of the cued and uncued surfaces. Subjects were given the task of judging whether or not the first and second translations were identical in direction, and their performance was impaired when the second translation occurred on the uncued, as compared to the cued surface. The posterior C1 (75-110 ms) and N1 (160-210 ms) components of the ERP elicited by the second translation of the cued surface were larger than those elicited by translation of the uncued surface. These behavioral and ERP cueing effects were present even when the two surfaces were identical in color and thus could not be attributed to attention-related modulations of the gain of color channels. These findings provide evidence that exogenous cueing results in preferential selection of the cued surface at both early and intermediate stages of visual-cortical processing.
When a moving border defined by small changes in luminance (or by differences in colour) is placed in close proximity to moving borders defined by large changes in luminance, the low contrast border can appear to jitter. Previously, the existence and characteristics of this phenomenon were established using subjective reports. Here, we show that spatial judgments become more difficult in the presence of illusory jitter, presumably because of the positional uncertainty that is induced. We also explore the influence of the distance between the different types of moving border. We find that this manipulation influences the salience and amplitude, but not the perceived rate, of illusory jitter. Finally, we show that illusory jitter remains when the different types of moving border are presented to different eyes. These observations suggest that this phenomenon arises at the cortical level and are consistent with our earlier proposal--that illusory jitter can occur because the visual system periodically resolves a spatial conflict that arises when a rigid moving object contains different apparent speeds.
The visual system is highly skilled at recovering the shape of complex objects defined exclusively by motion cues. But while low-level and high-level mechanisms involved in shape-from-motion have been studied extensively, intermediate computational stages remain poorly understood. In the present study, we used motion-defined radial-frequency contours--or motion RFs--to probe intermediate stages involved in the computation of motion-defined shape. Motion RFs consisted of a virtual circle of Gabor elements whose carriers drifted at speeds determined by a sinusoidal function of polar angle. Motion RFs elicited vivid percepts of shape, and observers could detect and discriminate radial frequencies up to approximately five cycles. Randomizing Gabor speeds over a small contour segment impaired detection and discrimination performance significantly more than predicted by probability summation. Threshold comparisons between spatial-RF and motion-RF contours ruled out that motion-induced shifts in perceived position (i.e., the DeValois effect) determine shape perception in motion RFs. Together, results indicate that the shape of motion RFs is processed by synergistic mechanisms that perform a global analysis of motion cues over space. These results are integrated with data on perceptual interactions between motion RFs and spatial-RFs and are discussed in terms of cue-specific and cue-invariant representations of object shape in human vision.
Our aim was to characterise the chromatic mechanisms that yield the four unique hues: red, green, yellow and blue. We measured the null planes for all four unique hues and report the following two main results. (1) We confirm that three chromatic mechanisms are required to account for the four unique hues. These three chromatic mechanisms do not coincide with the chromatic tuning found in parvocellular LGN neurones, i.e., neurones tuned to L-M and S-(L+M); these subcortical chromatic mechanisms are hence not the neural substrate of the perceptual unique hues and further higher-order colour mechanisms need to be postulated. Our results are consistent with the idea that the two higher-order colour mechanisms that yield unique red and unique green respectively combine the incremental and decremental responses of the subcortical chromatic mechanisms with different weights. In contrast, unique yellow and unique blue can be explained by postulating a single higher-order chromatic mechanism that combines the incremental and decremental subcortical chromatic responses with similar weights. (2) The variability between observers is small when expressed in terms of perceptual errors, which is consistent with the hypothesis that the colour vision system in adult humans is able to recalibrate itself based on prior visual experience.
The visual system is adept at compensating for the missing information in scenes that results from occlusion, but how this is done is not fully understood. In particular, the role of the occluding object in visual processing and its effect on the subsequent recognition of the occluded object is unclear. We report three human behavioral experiments suggesting that the recognition of partially visible objects is facilitated when the missing object information is replaced by an occluder rather than simply removed. Furthermore, we provide EEG evidence suggesting that the processes responsible for facilitated recognition occur relatively early in the visual stream.
The function of the gamma-aminobutyric acid(B) (GABAB) receptor, measured as baclofen-stimulated [35S]GTPgammaS binding, was evaluated in some brain regions of Sardinian alcohol-preferring (sP) and -nonpreferring (sNP) rats. EC50 value of baclofen-stimulated [35S]GTPgammaS in limbic areas was approximately 125% higher in alcohol-naive sP than sNP rats; voluntarily consumed alcohol reduced the EC50 value to a level similar to that of alcohol-naive sNP rats. These results suggest the presence of a genetically determined lower function of the GABAB receptor in limbic areas of sP than sNP rats; this differential functioning of the GABAB receptor may contribute to the opposite preference for alcohol in these rat lines.
The glomeruli of the antennal lobes in insects reflect the organization of the olfactory system, which is important for species-specific behaviors in response to insect- and plant-produced odorants. We studied the antennal lobes of the polyphagous moth Helicoverpa armigera and the oligophagous H. assulta (Heliothinae; Lepidoptera; Noctuidae) in order to see whether there are any anatomical differences that might elucidate how information about odorants is analyzed. Three-dimensional models of the antennal lobes were made, based on synaptic antibody staining combined with confocal laser scanning microscopy. These showed 65 glomeruli in each sex of H. armigera and 66 glomeruli in females of H. assulta. Sixty-two of the glomeruli were identified in both sexes and species and were given the same numbers. The sex-specific glomeruli included three macroglomerular units in H. armigera males, as well as three and four female-specific glomeruli in H. armigera and H. assulta, respectively. The species specificity of H. assulta females also appeared by the particular large size of two ordinary glomeruli. The accumulating knowledge on how biologically relevant information is encoded in receptor and antennal lobe neurons in heliothines makes these moths particularly interesting for studying the functional organization of the glomeruli. The anatomical atlases of the antennal lobes, as presented here, are prerequisites for identifying glomeruli ascribed to particular functions across sexes and species.
The map of the retina onto the optic tectum is a highly conserved feature of the vertebrate visual system; the mechanism by which this mapping is accomplished during development is a long-standing problem of neurobiology. The early suggestion by Roger Sperry that the map is formed through interactions between retinal ganglion cell axons and target cells within the tectum has gained significant experimental support and widespread acceptance. Nonetheless, reports in a variety of species indicate that some aspects of retinotopic order exist within the optic tract, leading to the suggestion that this &quot;preordering&quot; of retinal axons may play a role in the formation of the mature tectal map. A satisfactory account of pretarget order must provide the mechanism by which such axon order develops. Insofar as this mechanism must ultimately be determined genetically, the mouse suggests itself as the natural species in which to pursue these studies. Quantitative and repeatable methods are required to assess the contribution of candidate genes in mouse models. For these reasons, we have undertaken a quantitative study of the degree of retinotopic order within the optic tract and nerve of wild-type mice both before and after the development of the retinotectal map. Our methods are based on tract tracing using lipophilic dyes, and our results indicate that there is a reestablishment of dorsoventral but not nasotemporal retinal order when the axons pass through the chiasm and that this order is maintained throughout the subsequent tract. Furthermore, this dorsoventral retinotopic order is well established by the day after birth, long before the final target zone is discernible within the tectum. We conclude that pretarget sorting of axons according to origin along the dorsoventral axis of the retina is both spatially and chronologically appropriate to contribute to the formation of the retinotectal map, and we suggest that these methods be used to search for the molecular basis of such order by using available mouse genetic models.
Current descriptions of the organization of synapses on the dendritic trees of spinal motoneurons indicate that the inputs are arranged in several patterns: some are widely distributed; some are distributed to proximal dendrites; others are distributed based on the trajectory of the dendrites. However, the principles governing the organization of synapses on spinal motoneurons remain poorly defined. Our goal was to extend the descriptions of the distribution of synapses, identified by their source, on the dendritic trees of spinal motoneurons. We combined anterograde and intracellular staining techniques in cats to determine the distribution of contacts between excitatory axons from the rostral aspect of the descending vestibular nucleus and the dendrites of motoneurons supplying a dorsal neck muscle, splenius. In five of five motoneurons, the contacts were preferentially distributed on dendrites medial to the soma. This qualitative observation was confirmed by using Monte Carlo methods. The results from this analysis showed that the distribution of contacts can be explained not by the overall distribution of the dendritic membrane area but rather by a systematic innervation of the medial regions of the dendritic trees (P &lt; 0.02). Despite this selectivity, there was no additional bias in the distribution of contacts to proximal vs. distal dendrites. By concentrating excitatory synapses in a restricted region of the dendritic tree, the actions of vestibulospinal connections on neck motoneurons may be increased as a result of a greater probability of activating persistent inward currents on the dendrites.
Spinal cord stimulation (SCS) has been found to relieve neuropathic and ischemic pain clinically and to attenuate a nociceptive reflex in an animal model of acute colonic hypersensitivity. The goal of the present study was to determine the effect of SCS in a rat model of post-inflammatory colonic hypersensitivity. Acute inflammation was induced in rats by a single enema of trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (TNBS) (50 mg/kg, 0.5 ml, 25% EtOH). Control rats received a single saline enema. A visceromotor behavioral response (VMR), induced by innocuous colorectal distention (30 mm Hg, 10 min) was used to quantify the level of colonic sensitivity on day 3 and 30 post-enema. Prior to VMR testing, under general anesthesia, an electrode (cathode) was placed epidurally on the dorsal surface of the spinal cord at L1 with a paravertebral anode plate. Three to 7 days after implantation of the SCS electrode, the effect of SCS (50 Hz, 0.2 ms, amplitude 90% of motor threshold for 30 min) on colonic sensitivity was determined. On day 30, rats that had received a single TNBS enema were hypersensitive to innocuous colonic distention when compared to rats that received a saline enema (VMR/10 min: TNBS: 17.2+/-0.8 vs. Saline: 9.6+/-1.1, p&lt;0.01). Spinal cord stimulation significantly reduced the VMR in the TNBS-enema group to a value that resembled the saline-enema group (VMR/10 min: TNBS: 11.2+/-1.2 vs. Saline: 10.0+/-1.0). This study provides the first evidence that SCS might be a potential therapeutic for the treatment of abdominal pain observed in patients with post-inflammatory irritable bowel syndrome.
Sympathetic neurons extend and maintain axons that innervate the myocardium, and proper innervation is important for cardiac function. However, the molecular basis for axon outgrowth and maintenance is not well understood. We have shown previously that the integrin alpha4beta1 is expressed on developing axons, and the alpha4 function is important for the development of innervation in vivo [Wingerd, K.L., Goodman, N.L., Tresser, J.W., Smail, M.M., Leu, S.T., Rohan, S.J., Pring, J.L., Jackson, D.Y., and Clegg, D.O., 2002. Alpha 4 integrins and vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 play a role in sympathetic innervation of the heart. J. Neurosci. 22,10772-10780]. Here we examine the function of alpha4beta1 integrins in the maintenance of cardiac sympathetic innervation in vitro and in vivo, and investigate integrin expression and function after myocardial infarction and in hypertensive rats. On substrates of vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1), alpha4beta1 was required for both initial outgrowth and maintenance of neurites in vitro. On fibronectin substrates, initial outgrowth requires only alpha4 integrins, but maintenance requires both alpha4 integrins and RGD-dependent integrins. In vivo, in adult Long Evans rats, inhibition of alpha4 integrins resulted in decreased maintenance of sympathetic fibers innervating the apex of the heart. However, alpha4 integrins were not detected on most sympathetic axons that sprout after myocardial infarction, and alpha4 function was not required for sprouting. Spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) have increased numbers of cardiac sympathetic fibers compared to the parental Wistar strain, but many of these lack alpha4 expression, and alpha4 function is not required for maintenance of these fibers in the heart. These results suggest that developing sympathetic axons and sprouting sympathetic axons use different mechanisms of outgrowth, and that maintenance of cardiac sympathetic innervation involves alpha4 integrins in some rat strains.
This study was designed to develop a novel technical approach based on tumor-associated telomerase activity to detect cytotoxic activity of effector cells of the natural immune system against neoplastic cells. Human K562, DAUDI or Raji leukemia cells were co-cultured with NK or LAK effector cells at 37 degrees C for 4 h. Target cell killing was evaluated by 51Cr-release assay (CRA) or reduction of telomerase activity (R-TRAPCTX) of the target after exposure to effector cells. NK and LAK effector cells tested against K562 target cells at effector/target ratio of 50:1 showed cytotoxicity of 65% and 78%, respectively, with CRA and 51% and 74%, respectively, with R-TRAPCTX. Incorrect results were obtained with CRA when target cells were admixed with normal fibroblasts, whereas R-TRAPCTX was not influenced by the presence of normal cells. Control experiments performed with telomerase-negative cells showed that telomerase activity of effector cells was not altered during the cytolytic reaction. Moreover, supernatants obtained from effector-target cell co-cultures did not influence telomerase activity of targets. This novel R-TRAPCTX method to assay anti-tumor natural and possibly antigen-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity appears to provide sensible advantages over classical CRA or gamma-interferon release by effector cells in presence of target cells (ELISPOT), since (a) it furnishes reliable data on effector cell killing against neoplastic cells, even when malignant cells are admixed with normal cells, as frequently occurs in tumor biopsies, not manageable with CRA; (b) it provides an actual measure of target cell killing, not furnished by ELISPOT technique.
The number of laboratories using techniques that allow to acquire simultaneous recordings of as many units as possible is considerably increasing. However, the development of tools used to analyse this multi-neuronal activity is generally lagging behind the development of the tools used to acquire these data. Moreover, the data exchange between research groups using different multielectrode acquisition systems is hindered by commercial constraints such as exclusive file structures, high priced licenses and hard policies on intellectual rights. This paper presents a free open-source software for the classification and management of neural ensemble data. The main goal is to provide a graphical user interface that links the experimental data to a basic set of routines for analysis, visualization and classification in a consistent framework. To facilitate the adaptation and extension as well as the addition of new routines, tools and algorithms for data analysis, the source code and documentation are freely available.
This study used event-related potentials (ERPs) to investigate the timing and scalp topography of working memory in post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). This study was designed to investigate ERPs associated with a specific working memory updating process. ERPs were recorded from 10 patients and 10 controls during two visual tasks where (a) targets were a specific word or (b) targets were consecutive matching words. In the first task, nontarget words are not retained in working memory. In the second task, as in delay-match-to-sample tasks, a non-target word defines a new target identity, so these words are retained in working memory. This working memory updating process was related to large positive ERPs over frontal and parietal areas at 400-800 ms, which were smaller in PTSD. Estimation of cortical source activity indicated abnormal patterns of frontal and parietal activity in PTSD, which were also observed in regional cerebral blood flow [Clark, C.R., McFarlane, A.C., Morris, P., Weber, D.L., Sonkkilla, C., Shaw, M., Marcina, J., Tochon-Danguy, H., Egan, G., 2003. Cerebral function in posttraumatic stress disorder during verbal working memory updating: a positron emission tomography study. Biological Psychiatry 53, 474-481]. Frontal and parietal cortex are known to be involved in distributed networks for working memory processes, interacting with medial temporal areas during episodic memory processes. Abnormal function in these brain networks helps to explain everyday concentration and memory difficulties in PTSD.
While prefrontal pathology is considered to be a core feature in schizophrenia, evidence from functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies using cognitive activation tasks is less reliable in terms of demonstrating 'functional hypofrontality'. Here we present a new event-related fMRI paradigm specifically developed to assess the gradual recruitment of brain areas during verbal working memory (WM) by taking into account theoretical and pragmatic limitations of activation tools used in clinical cognitive neuroscience. We studied 15 healthy subjects during the performance of a WM task that required the manipulation of verbal information. We observed a robust recruitment of frontoparietal areas with increasing load. Comparing the two highest loads, we found further bilateral striatal activation. A median split into good and poor performers revealed significant positive correlations of prefrontal activation in the group of good performers and correlations with striato-thalamic activation in the poor-performance group, thus emphasizing a crucial role of subcortical structures for performance in highly demanding WM tasks. Because it induces a robust bilateral frontoparietal activation pattern along with performance-related effects of cerebral activation, we consider this paradigm to be suitable to test prefrontal function in schizophrenic patients during the manipulation of items held in WM.
Diverse functions of 14-3-3 proteins are directly coupled to their ability to interact with targeted peptide substrates. RSX(pS/pT)XP and RXPhiX(pS/pT)XP are two canonical consensus binding motifs for 14-3-3 proteins representing the two common binding modes, modes I and II, between 14-3-3 and internal peptides. Using a genetic selection, we have screened a random peptide library and identified a group of C-terminal motifs, termed SWTY, capable of overriding an endoplasmic reticulum localization signal and redirecting membrane proteins to cell surface. Here we report that the C-terminal SWTY motif, although different from mode I and II consensus, binds tightly to 14-3-3 proteins with a dissociation constant (K(D)) of 0.17 microM, comparable with that of internal canonical binding peptides. We show that all residues but proline in -SWTX-COOH are compatible for the interaction and surface expression. Because SWTY-like sequences have been found in native proteins, these results support a broad significance of 14-3-3 interaction with protein C termini. The C-terminal binding consensus, mode III, represents an expansion of the repertoire of 14-3-3-targeted sequences.
A new family of graphs, entangled networks, with optimal properties in many respects, is introduced. By definition, their topology is such that it optimizes synchronizability for many dynamical processes. These networks are shown to have an extremely homogeneous structure: degree, node distance, betweenness, and loop distributions are all very narrow. Also, they are characterized by a very interwoven (entangled) structure with short average distances, large loops, and no well-defined community structure. This family of nets exhibits an excellent performance with respect to other flow properties such as robustness against errors and attacks, minimal first-passage time of random walks, efficient communication, etc. These remarkable features convert entangled networks in a useful concept, optimal or almost optimal in many senses, and with plenty of potential applications in computer science or neuroscience.

Synaptic neurotransmission in the central nervous system (CNS) requires the precise control of the duration and the magnitude of neurotransmitter action at specific molecular targets. At the molecular level, neurotransmitter signaling is dynamically regulated by a diverse set of macromolecules including biosynthetic enzymes, secretory proteins, ion channels, pre- and postsynaptic receptors and transporters. Monoamines, 5-hydroxytryptamine or serotonin (5-HT), norepinephrine (NE), and dopamine (DA) play an important modulatory role in the CNS and are involved in numerous physiological functions and pathological conditions. Presynaptic plasma membrane transporters for 5-HT (SERT), NE (NET), and DA (DAT), respectively, control synaptic actions of these monoamines by rapidly clearing the released amine. Monoamine transporters are the sites of action for widely used antidepressants and are high affinity molecular targets for drugs of abuse including cocaine, amphetamine, and 3,4-methylenedioxymetamphetamine (MDMA) &quot;Ecstasy.&quot; Monoamine transporters also serve as molecular gateways for neurotoxins. Emerging evidence indicates that regulation of transporter function and surface expression can be rapidly modulated by &quot;intrinsic&quot; transporter activity itself, and antidepressant and psychostimulant drugs that block monoamine transport have a profound effect on transporter regulation. Therefore, disregulations in the functioning of monoamine transporters may underlie many disorders of transmitter imbalance such as depression, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, and schizophrenia. This review integrates recent progress in understanding the molecular mechanisms of monoamine transporter regulation, in particular, posttranscriptional regulation by phosphorylation and trafficking linked to cellular protein kinases, protein phosphatases, and transporter interacting proteins. The review also discusses the possible role of psychostimulants and antidepressants in influencing monoamine transport regulation.
We studied the effects of visual references and the level of illumination on the localization of stimuli flashed briefly near the start of saccades. A translucent shutter made it possible to remove visual references, but admit light, at different times after saccadic onset. The results show that post-saccadic visual references are not necessary for compression: a consistent compression of verbally reported relative stimulus distances is found at all shutter latencies and at all post-shutter levels of illumination. They also show that positions indicated by blind pointing show no compression except when visual references remain in view for a substantial time after saccades. These results confirm that the visual system uses multiple representations of space and suggest that it weights them differently for different tasks and different viewing conditions. No single map is used exclusively for conscious perception or for motor action, and conscious perception is always subject to compression at the time of saccades.

A series of findings over the past decade has begun to identify the brain circuitry and neurotransmitters that regulate our daily cycles of sleep and wakefulness. The latter depends on a network of cell groups that activate the thalamus and the cerebral cortex. A key switch in the hypothalamus shuts off this arousal system during sleep. Other hypothalamic neurons stabilize the switch, and their absence results in inappropriate switching of behavioural states, such as occurs in narcolepsy. These findings explain how various drugs affect sleep and wakefulness, and provide the basis for a wide range of environmental influences to shape wake-sleep cycles into the optimal pattern for survival.
Sleep is a widespread biological phenomenon, and its scientific study is proceeding at multiple levels at the same time. Marked progress is being made in answering three fundamental questions: what is sleep, what are its mechanisms and what are its functions? The most salient answers to these questions have resulted from applying new techniques from basic and applied neuroscience research. The study of sleep is also shedding light on our understanding of consciousness, which undergoes alteration in parallel with sleep-induced changes in the brain.

In dark-reared, neonatal turtle retinas, ganglion cell receptive fields and dendritic trees grow faster than normal. As a result, their areas may become, on average, up to twice as large as in control retinas. This raises the question of whether the coverage factor of dark-reared ganglion cells is larger than normal. Alternatively, dark rearing may lead to smaller-than-normal cell densities by accelerating apoptosis. To test these alternatives, we investigated the effect of light deprivation on densities and soma sizes of turtle retinal ganglion cells. For this purpose, we marked these cells using retrograde labeling of fixed turtle retinas with DiI (1,1'-dioctadecyl-3,3,3',3'-tetramethylindocarbocyanine perchlorate). Control turtles were maintained in a regular 12-h light/dark cycle from hatching until 4 weeks of age, whereas dark-reared turtles were maintained in total darkness for the same period. Ganglion cells in the control and dark-reared retinas were found to be similar in density and soma sizes. These results show that the mean coverage factor of turtle dark-reared ganglion cells is larger than normal.
Acetylcholinesterase and butyrylcholinesterase activities emerge in association with plaques and tangles in Alzheimer's disease. These pathological cholinesterases, with altered properties, are suggested to participate in formation of plaques. The present experiment assessed the ability of rivastigmine, a clinically utilized agent that inhibits acetylcholinesterase and butyrylcholinesterase activities, to inhibit cholinesterases in plaques and tangles. Cortical sections from cases of Alzheimer's disease were processed using cholinesterase histochemistry in the presence or absence of rivastigmine. Optical densities of stained sections were utilized as a measure of inhibition. The potency of rivastigmine was compared with those of other specific inhibitors. Optimum staining for cholinesterases in neurons and axons was obtained at pH 8.0. Cholinesterases in plaques, tangles and glia were stained best at pH 6.8. Butyrylcholinesterase-positive plaques were more numerous than acetylcholinesterase-positive plaques. Rivastigmine inhibited acetylcholinesterase in all positive structures in a dose-dependent manner (10(-6)-10(-4) M). However, even at the highest concentration, faint activity remained. In contrast, rivastigmine resulted in complete inhibition of butyrylcholinesterase in all structures at 10(-5) M. Rivastigmine was equipotent to the specific acetylcholinesterase inhibitor BW284C51 and more potent than the butyrylcholinesterase inhibitors iso-OMPA and ethopropazine. In conclusion, rivastigmine is a potent inhibitor of acetylcholinesterase and a more potent inhibitor of butyrylcholinesterase in plaques and tangles. Unlike other cholinesterase inhibitors tested, rivastigmine inhibited cholinesterases in normal and pathological structures with the same potency. Thus, at the therapeutic concentrations used, rivastigmine is likely to result in inhibition of pathological cholinesterases, with the potential of interfering with the disease process.
Disruption of blood-brain barrier (BBB), mediated through matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs), is a critical event during cerebral ischemia. While neuroprotective effects of estrogens have been well established in ischemic stroke models, the effects of estrogens on BBB integrity remain to be elucidated. In the present study, we determined effects of 17beta-estradiol (E2) on BBB disruption induced by transient focal cerebral ischemia and its effects on MMP2 and MMP9 activation. Transient cerebral ischemia was induced by middle cerebral artery (MCA) occlusion for 1 h followed by reperfusion in ovariectomized rats. E2 (100 microg/kg) or vehicle was administered 2 h before MCA occlusion. BBB integrity was determined by fluorescent detection of extravasated Evans blue. In separate experiments, effect of E2 on MMP2 and MMP9 expression and activation was determined by immunoblot and MMPs activity assay. E2 treatment prevented more than 50% and 30% of BBB disruption in the ischemic cortex and subcortex at 4 h after reperfusion, respectively. MMP2 and MMP9 expression was elevated at 2 h and peaked at 4 h after reperfusion in the ischemic cortex, which was markedly reduced by E2 treatment. E2 treatment also attenuated the increase of MMPs activity induced by ischemia-reperfusion injury. In conclusion, estrogens could attenuate BBB disruption induced by transient cerebral ischemia, by inhibition of MMP2 and MMP9 activation. Our results suggest an important role of estrogens as multiple targeting protectants against ischemic stroke on cellular as well as vascular components of central nervous system.
Mitochondrial dysfunction is a potential causal factor in Parkinson's disease. We show here that acute exposure to the mitochondrial complex I inhibitor rotenone (30-100 nM; 30 min) causes concentration-dependent suppression of single-pulse evoked dopamine (DA) release monitored in real time with carbon-fiber microelectrodes in guinea pig striatal slices, with no effect on DA content. Suppression of DA release was prevented by the sulfonylurea glibenclamide, implicating ATP-sensitive K+ (KATP) channels; however, tissue ATP was unaltered. Because KATP channels can be activated by hydrogen peroxide (H2O2), as well as by low ATP, we examined the involvement of rotenone-enhanced H2O2 generation. Confirming an essential role for H2O2, the inhibition of DA release by rotenone was prevented by catalase, a peroxide-scavenging enzyme. Striatal H2O2 generation during rotenone exposure was examined in individual medium spiny neurons using fluorescence imaging with dichlorofluorescein (DCF). An increase in intracellular H2O2 levels followed a similar time course to that of DA release suppression and was accompanied by cell membrane depolarization, decreased input resistance, and increased excitability. Extracellular catalase markedly attenuated the increase in DCF fluorescence and prevented rotenone-induced effects on membrane properties; membrane changes were also largely prevented by flufenamic acid, a blocker of transient receptor potential (TRP) channels. Thus, partial mitochondrial inhibition can cause functional DA denervation via H2O2 and KATP channels, without DA or ATP depletion. Furthermore, amplified H2O2 levels and TRP channel activation in striatal spiny neurons indicate potential sources of damage in these cells. Overall, these novel factors could contribute to parkinsonian motor deficits and neuronal degeneration caused by mitochondrial dysfunction.
The contribution of intracellular stores to axonal Ca2+ overload during chemical ischemia in vitro was examined by confocal microscopy. Ca2+ accumulation was measured by fluo-4 dextran (low-affinity dye, KD approximately 4 microM) or by Oregon Green 488 BAPTA-1 dextran (highaffinity dye, KD approximately 450 nM). Axonal Na+ was measured using CoroNa Green. Ischemia in CSF containing 2 mM Ca2+ caused an approximately 3.5-fold increase in fluo-4 emission after 30 min, indicating a large axonal Ca2+ rise well into the micromolar range. Axonal Na+ accumulation was enhanced by veratridine and reduced, but not abolished, by TTX. Ischemia in Ca2+-free (plus BAPTA) perfusate resulted in a smaller but consistent Ca2+ increase monitored by Oregon Green 488 BAPTA-1, indicating release from intracellular sources. This release was eliminated in large part when Na+ influx was reduced by replacement with N-methyl-D-glucamine (NMDG+; even in depolarizing high K+ perfusate), Li+, or by the application of TTX and significantly increased by veratridine. Intracellular release also was reduced significantly by neomycin or 1-(6-[(17beta-methoxyestra-1,3,5 [10]-trien-17-yl) amino] hexyl)-1H-pyrrole-2,5-dione (U73122 [GenBank]) (phospholipase C inhibitors), heparin [inositol trisphosphate (IP3) receptor blocker], or 7-chloro-5-(2-chlorophenyl)-1,5-dihydro-4,1-benzothiazepin-2(3H)-one (CGP37157; mitochondrial Na+/Ca2+ exchange inhibitor) as well as ryanodine. Combining CGP37157 with U73122 [GenBank] or heparin decreased the response more than either agent alone and significantly improved electrophysiological recovery. Our conclusion is that intra-axonal Ca2+ release during ischemia in rat optic nerve is mainly dependent on Na+ influx. This Na+ accumulation stimulates three distinct intra-axonal sources of Ca2+: (1) the mitochondrial Na+/Ca2+ exchanger driven in the Na+ import/Ca2+ export mode, (2) positive modulation of ryanodine receptors, and (3) promotion of IP3 generation by phospholipase C.
Increasing evidence suggests that cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) is involved in synaptic transmission and plasticity, and prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) is a key molecule in COX-2-meduated synaptic modification. However, the precise mechanisms, in particular, which subtypes of PGE2 receptors (EPs) mediate the PGE2-induced synaptic response, are not clear. Recently, we demonstrated that EPs are expressed heterogeneously in the hippocampus, and EP2/4 are mainly expressed in presynaptic terminals. Here, we report that PGE2 increased synaptic stimulus-evoked amplitudes of EPSPs in hippocampal slices and frequency of miniature EPSCs (mEPSCs) in hippocampal neurons in culture. These actions were mimicked by an EP2 agonist and attenuated by protein kinase A inhibitors. Decrease of EP2 expression through silencing the EP2 gene eliminated PGE2-induced increase of the frequency of mEPSCs. COX-2 and microsomal PGE synthase-1 (mPGES-1) and mPGES-2 are present in postsynaptic dendritic spines, because they are colocalized with PSD-95 (postsynaptic density-95), a postsynaptic marker. In addition, the frequency of mEPSCs was enhanced in neurons pretreated with interleukin-1beta or lipopolysaccharide, which elevated expression of COX-2 and mPGES-1 and produced PGE2, and this enhancement was inhibited by a COX-2 inhibitor that inhibited production of PGE2. Our results suggest that PGE2 synthesized by postsynaptically localized COX-2 functions as a retrograde messenger in hippocampal synaptic signaling via a presynaptic EP2 receptor.
The search for a unique biological marker of language-based learning disabilities has so far yielded inconclusive findings. Previous studies have shown a plethora of auditory processing deficits in learning disabilities at both the perceptual and physiological levels. In this study, we investigated the association among brainstem timing, cortical processing of stimulus differences, and literacy skills. To that end, brainstem timing and cortical sensitivity to acoustic change [mismatch negativity (MMN)] were measured in a group of children with learning disabilities and normal-learning children. The learning-disabled (LD) group was further divided into two subgroups with normal and abnormal brainstem timing. MMNs, literacy, and cognitive abilities were compared among the three groups. LD individuals with abnormal brainstem timing were more likely to show reduced processing of acoustic change at the cortical level compared with both normal-learning individuals and LD individuals with normal brainstem timing. This group was also characterized by a more severe form of learning disability manifested by poorer reading, listening comprehension, and general cognitive ability. We conclude that abnormal brainstem timing in learning disabilities is related to higher incidence of reduced cortical sensitivity to acoustic change and to deficient literacy skills. These findings suggest that abnormal brainstem timing may serve as a reliable marker of a subgroup of individuals with learning disabilities. They also suggest that faulty mechanisms of neural timing at the brainstem may be the biological basis of malfunction in this group.
Nicotine, a component of tobacco, is highly addictive but possesses beneficial properties such as cognitive improvements and memory maintenance. Involved in these processes is the neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) alpha7, whose activation triggers depolarization, intracellular signaling cascades, and synaptic plasticity underlying addiction and cognition. It is therefore important to investigate intracellular mechanisms by which a cell regulates alpha7 nAChR activity. We have examined the role of phosphorylation by combining molecular biology, biochemistry, and electrophysiology in SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells, Xenopus oocytes, rat hippocampal interneurons, and neurons from the supraoptic nucleus, and we found tyrosine phosphorylation of alpha7 nAChRs. Tyrosine kinase inhibition by genistein decreased alpha7 nAChR phosphorylation but strongly increased acetylcholine-evoked currents, whereas tyrosine phosphatase inhibition by pervanadate produced opposite effects. Src-family kinases (SFKs) directly interacted with the cytoplasmic loop of alpha7 nAChRs and phosphorylated the receptors at the plasma membrane. SFK inhibition by PP2 [4-amino-5-(4-chlorophenyl)-7-(t-butyl)pyrazolo[3,4-d]pyrimidine] or SU6656 (2,3-dihydro-N,N-dimethyl-2-oxo-3-[(4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1H-indol-2-yl)methylene]-1H-indole-5-sulfonamide) increased alpha7 nAChR-mediated responses, whereas expression of active Src reduced alpha7 nAChR activity. Mutant alpha7 nAChRs lacking cytoplasmic loop tyrosine residues because of alanine replacement of Tyr-386 and Tyr-442 were more active than wild-type receptors and insensitive to kinase or phosphatase inhibition. Because the amount of surface alpha7 receptors was not affected by kinase or phosphatase inhibitors, these data show that functional properties of alpha7 nAChRs depend on the tyrosine phosphorylation status of the receptor and are the result of a balance between SFKs and tyrosine phosphatases. These findings reveal novel regulatory mechanisms that may help to understand nicotinic receptor-dependent plasticity, addiction, and pathology.



The 20th biennial meeting of the International Society for Neurochemistry was recently held in Innsbruck, Austria. This meeting gave an overview of the latest findings in the field of molecular mechanisms and diagnosis of neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, and prion disease. There was a focus on the molecular pathogenesis of protein misfolding in these disorders as well as on the association between oxidative metabolism and neurological diseases. RNA interference, metal chelators, and the use of metallopeptidases were discussed as possible therapeutic strategies.

Activity-prompted dendritic remodeling leads to calcium-influx-dependent activation of signaling pathways within minutes and gene transcription within hours. However, dendrite growth continues for days and requires extension and stabilization of the cytoskeleton in nascent processes. In addition to binding microtubules, microtubule-associated proteins (MAPs) associate with the actin cytoskeleton, anchor ion channels and signaling complexes, and modulate synaptic growth. MAP2 is predominantly dendritic. MAP1B is at postsynaptic densities (PSD) and modulates ion channel activity, in addition to affecting axon growth. Less is known about MAP1A, but it is also enriched in dendrites at input locations, including PSDs where MAP1A associates with channel complexes and the calcium sensor caldendrin. MAP1A rescued hearing loss in tubby mice. Here we show that MAP1A becomes enriched in dendrites concurrently with dendritic branching and synapse formation in the developing brain; that synaptic activity is required for establishing mature MAP1A expression levels; and that MAP1A expression is required for activity-dependent growth, branching, and stabilization of the dendritic arbor.
Two recent papers on social rearing and olfactory imprinting show that early developmental experiences can lead to long-lasting changes in behaviour of the model nematode Caenorhabditis elegans.


A robust gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) surge is a prerequisite signal for the luteinizing hormone (LH) surge that triggers ovulation. In rodents, the GnRH surge is initiated by elevated estradiol and a diurnal switch in estrogen action from negative to positive feedback. The ability of constant estradiol treatment to induce daily LH surges was tested in adult mice that were ovariectomized (OVX) or OVX and treated with estradiol implants (OVX+E). LH in OVX mice showed no time-of-day difference. In contrast, OVX+E mice showed a large LH surge (8- to 124-fold relative to the a.m.) in p.m. samples on d 2-5 post-OVX+E. Targeted extracellular recordings were used to examine changes in firing activity of GnRH neurons in brain slices. There was no time-of-day difference in cells from OVX mice. In contrast, OVX+E cells recorded in the p.m. showed an increased mean firing rate and instantaneous firing frequency, which could increase GnRH release, and decreased duration of quiescence between bouts of firing, possibly reflecting increased pulse frequency, compared with cells recorded in the a.m. In the a.m., OVX+E cells showed changes in GnRH neuron firing reflecting negative feedback compared with OVX cells, whereas in the p.m., OVX+E cells exhibited changes suggesting positive feedback. These data indicate that differences in pattern and level of individual GnRH neuron firing may reflect the switch in estradiol action and underlie GnRH surge generation. The persistence of altered GnRH neuron activity in slices indicates that this approach can be used to study the neurobiological mechanisms of surge generation.
Abnormalities in L-glutamic acid (glutamate) and GABA signal transmission have been postulated to play a role in depression, but little is known about the underlying molecular determinants and neural mechanisms. Microarray analysis of specific areas of cerebral cortex from individuals who had suffered from major depressive disorder demonstrated significant down-regulation of SLC1A2 and SLC1A3, two key members of the glutamate/neutral amino acid transporter protein family, SLC1. Similarly, expression of L-glutamate-ammonia ligase, the enzyme that converts glutamate to nontoxic glutamine was significantly decreased. Together, these changes could elevate levels of extracellular glutamate considerably, which is potentially neurotoxic and can affect the efficiency of glutamate signaling. The astroglial distribution of the two glutamate transporters and L-glutamate-ammonia ligase strongly links glia to the pathophysiology of depression and challenges the conventional notion that depression is solely a neuronal disorder. The same cortical areas displayed concomitant up-regulation of several glutamate and GABA(A) receptor subunits, of which GABA(A)alpha1 and GABA(A)beta3 showed selectivity for individuals who had died by suicide, indicating their potential utility as biomarkers of suicidality. These findings point to previously undiscovered molecular underpinnings of the pathophysiology of major depression and offer potentially new pharmacological targets for treating depression.

Microsomal cytochrome P450 reductase catalyzes the one-electron transfer from NADPH via FAD and FMN to various electron acceptors, such as cytochrome P450s or to some anti-cancer quinone drugs. This results in generation of free radicals and toxic oxygen metabolites, which can contribute to the cytotoxicity of these compounds. Recently, a cytosolic NADPH-dependent flavin reductase, NR1, has been described which is highly homologous to the microsomal cytochrome P450 reductase. In this study, we show that over-expression of NR1 in human embryonic kidney cells enhances the cytotoxic action of the model quinone, menadione. Furthermore, we show that a novel human histidine triad protein DCS-1, which is expressed together with NR1 in many tissues, can significantly reduce menadione-induced cytotoxicity in these cells. We also show that DCS-1 binds NF1 and directly modulates its activity. These results suggest that NR1 may play a role in carcinogenicity and cell death associated with one-electron reductions.
Dendritic calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) is dynamically targeted to the synapse. We show that CaMKIIalpha is associated with the CaMKII-binding proteins densin-180, the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor NR2B subunit, and alpha-actinin in postsynaptic density-enriched rat brain fractions. Residues 819-894 within the C-terminal domain of alpha-actinin-2 constitute the minimal CaMKII-binding domain. Similar amounts of Thr286-autophosphorylated CaMKIIalpha holoenzyme [P-T286]CaMKII bind to alpha-actinin-2 as bind to NR2B (residues 1260-1339) or to densin-180 (residues 1247-1495) in glutathione-agarose cosedimentation assays, even though the CaMKII-binding domains share no amino acid sequence similarity. Like NR2B, alpha-actinin-2 binds to representative splice variants of each CaMKII gene (alpha, beta, gamma, and delta), whereas densin-180 binds selectively to CaMKIIalpha. In addition, C-terminal truncated CaMKIIalpha monomers can interact with NR2B and alpha-actinin-2, but not with densin-180. Soluble alpha-actinin-2 does not compete for [P-T286]CaMKII binding to immobilized densin-180 or NR2B. However, soluble densin-180, but not soluble NR2B, increases CaMKII binding to immobilized alpha-actinin-2 by approximately 10-fold in a PDZ domain-dependent manner. A His6-tagged NR2B fragment associates with GST-densin or GST-actinin but only in the presence of [P-T286]CaMKII. Similarly, His6-tagged densin-180 or alpha-actinin fragments associate with GST-NR2B in a [P-T286]CaMKII-dependent manner. In addition, GST-NR2B and His6-tagged alpha-actinin can bind simultaneously to monomeric CaMKII subunits. In combination, these data support a model in which [P-T286]CaMKIIalpha can simultaneously interact with multiple dendritic spine proteins, possibly stabilizing the synaptic localization of CaMKII and/or nucleating a multiprotein synaptic signaling complex.
Nicotinic acid adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NAADP+) has been identified as a novel second messenger triggering Ca2+ release from intracellular stores. Here we report that murine cortical astrocytes in culture and in acute slices respond with transient intracellular Ca2+ increases to extracellularly applied NAADP+ and express the NAADP+-producing enzyme CD38. The Ca2+ transients triggered by NAADP+ occurred with an average delay of 35 s as compared with ATP-triggered Ca2+ signaling, suggesting that NAADP+ may have to enter the cell to act. Blockage of connexin hemichannels (a possible entry route for NAADP+ into the cell) reduced the number of astrocytes responding to NAADP+. Disruption of lysosomes as the suggested site of NAADP+ receptors reduced the number of astrocytes responding to NAADP+ strongly. The NAADP+-triggered Ca2+ signal also depended on intact endoplasmic reticulum Ca2+ stores linked to activation of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptors and on the activity of voltage-gated Ca2+ channels. Adenosine receptor-mediated signaling contributes to the NAADP+-evoked signal, since it is strongly reduced by the adenosine receptor blocker CGS-15943. Moreover, NAADP+ triggered responses in all other cell types (cultured cerebellar neurons, microglia, and oligodendrocytes) of the central nervous system.
A high-resolution spatial distribution analysis of hypothalamic neurons expressing melanin-concentrating hormone or hypocretin/orexin was performed in adult male rats with in situ hybridization cytochemistry. For the analysis, a new parcellation of the lateral zone with some two-dozen regions was used, and distributions were plotted on 15 transverse reference levels through the hypothalamus. Qualitatively the results confirm earlier, much lower resolution mapping studies, although some discrepancies are clarified. Previous work indicates that each of these cell populations is far from homogeneous, and the present results should help establish a framework for clarifying more precisely how they are differentiated and organized in terms of axonal input-output relationships and gene expression patterns, and for defining precise relationships with other hypothalamic neuron populations.
Indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase (IDO) catabolizes tryptophan to kynurenine. In the immune system, the reduction in tryptophan and increase in kynurenine act to suppress T-cell function. In the nervous system, kynurenine can be further metabolized to quinolinic acid, which can be neurotoxic. IDO is known to be expressed by microglia and its levels are upregulated by interferon-gamma (IFNgamma). We report here that IDO immunoreactivity is also localized in neurons, and that IDO is upregulated by IFNgamma in neurons of the hippocampus. Thus, neuronal IDO could contribute to the vulnerability of neurons to inflammatory conditions.
A clinician by training, Farrukh A. Chaudhry's passion for basic science has taken him across the Atlantic, where he discovered a new family of neurological amino acid transporters. Last August, he just started his first faculty position at the Biotechnology Centre in Oslo.
Independent specialization of arthropod body segments has led to more than a century of debate on the homology of morphologically diverse segments, each defined by a lateral appendage and a ganglion of the central nervous system. The plesiomorphic composition of the arthropod head remains enigmatic because variation in segments and corresponding appendages is extreme. Within extant arthropod classes (Chelicerata, Myriapoda, Crustacea and Hexapoda--including the insects), correspondences between the appendage-bearing second (deutocerebral) and third (tritocerebral) cephalic neuromeres have been recently resolved on the basis of immunohistochemistry and Hox gene expression patterns. However, no appendage targets the first ganglion, the protocerebrum, and the corresponding segmental identity of this anterior region remains unclear. Reconstructions of stem-group arthropods indicate that the anteriormost region originally might have borne an ocular apparatus and a frontal appendage innervated by the protocerebrum. However, no study of the central nervous system in extant arthropods has been able to corroborate this idea directly, although recent analyses of cephalic gene expression patterns in insects suggest a segmental status for the protocerebral region. Here we investigate the developmental neuroanatomy of a putative basal arthropod, the pycnogonid sea spider, with immunohistochemical techniques. We show that the first pair of appendages, the chelifores, are innervated at an anterior position on the protocerebrum. This is the first true appendage shown to be innervated by the protocerebrum, and thus pycnogonid chelifores are not positionally homologous to appendages of extant arthropods but might, in fact, be homologous to the 'great appendages' of certain Cambrian stem-group arthropods.
Given that cocaine induces neuroadaptations through regulation of gene expression, we investigated whether chromatin remodeling at specific gene promoters may be a key mechanism. We show that cocaine induces specific histone modifications at different gene promoters in striatum, a major neural substrate for cocaine's behavioral effects. At the cFos promoter, H4 hyperacetylation is seen within 30 min of a single cocaine injection, whereas no histone modifications were seen with chronic cocaine, consistent with cocaine's ability to induce cFos acutely, but not chronically. In contrast, at the BDNF and Cdk5 promoters, genes that are induced by chronic, but not acute, cocaine, H3 hyperacetylation was observed with chronic cocaine only. DeltaFosB, a cocaine-induced transcription factor, appears to mediate this regulation of the Cdk5 gene. Furthermore, modulating histone deacetylase activity alters locomotor and rewarding responses to cocaine. Thus, chromatin remodeling is an important regulatory mechanism underlying cocaine-induced neural and behavioral plasticity.
Previous studies suggested that postsynaptic neuroligins form a trans-synaptic complex with presynaptic beta-neurexins, but not with presynaptic alpha-neurexins. Unexpectedly, we now find that neuroligins also bind alpha-neurexins and that alpha- and beta-neurexin binding by neuroligin 1 is regulated by alternative splicing of neuroligin 1 (at splice site B) and of neurexins (at splice site 4). In neuroligin 1, splice site B is a master switch that determines alpha-neurexin binding but leaves beta-neurexin binding largely unaffected, whereas alternative splicing of neurexins modulates neuroligin binding. Moreover, neuroligin 1 splice variants with distinct neurexin binding properties differentially regulate synaptogenesis: neuroligin 1 that binds only beta-neurexins potently stimulates synapse formation, whereas neuroligin 1 that binds to both alpha- and beta-neurexins more effectively promotes synapse expansion. These findings suggest that neuroligin binding to alpha- and beta-neurexins mediates trans-synaptic cell adhesion but has distinct effects on synapse formation, indicating that expression of different neuroligin and neurexin isoforms specifies a trans-synaptic signaling code.

In this issue of Neuron, Gabernet et al. report an elegant series of in vivo and in vitro experiments that dissect a disynaptic circuit dictating the dynamic transition of cortical spiking responses to whisker stimulation from coincidence detection to temporal integration.

Pax6 is a transcription factor with key functional roles in the developing brain. Pax6 promotes neuronal differentiation via transcriptional regulation of the Neurogenin2 (Ngn2) gene, although Pax6 expression appears in proliferating neuroepithelial cells before the onset of neurogenesis. Here, we identified Fabp7 (BLBP/B-FABP), a member of the fatty acid-binding protein (FABP) family, as a downregulated gene in the embryonic brain of Pax6 mutant rat (rSey2/rSey2) by microarray analysis. Marked reduction of Fabp7 expression was confirmed by quantitative PCR. Spatiotemporal expression patterns of Fabp7 in the wild-type rat embryos from embryonic day 10.5 (E10.5) to E14.5 were similar to those of Pax6, and expression of Fabp7 was undetectable in the rSey2/rSey2 cortex. The expression pattern of Fabp7 in the wild-type mouse embryo at E10.5 (corresponding to E12.5 rat) was different from that in the rat embryo, and no change of expression was observed in the Sey/Sey mouse embryo. Overexpression of exogenous Pax6 mainly induced ectopic expression of Fabp7, rather than of Ngn2, in the early cortical primordium. Interestingly, knocking-down FABP7 function by electroporation of Fabp7 small interfering RNA severely curtailed cell proliferation but promoted neuronal differentiation. We conclude that Fabp7 is a downstream gene of Pax6 transcription factor in the developing rat cortex and essential for maintenance of neuroepithelial cells during early cortical development.
The Aplysia feeding system is advantageous for investigating the role of neuropeptides in behavioral plasticity. One family of Aplysia neuropeptides is the myomodulins (MMs), originally purified from one of the feeding muscles, the accessory radula closer (ARC). However, two MMs, MMc and MMe, are not encoded on the only known MM gene. Here, we identify MM gene 2 (MMG2), which encodes MMc and MMe and four new neuropeptides. We use matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry to verify that these novel MMG2-derived peptides (MMG2-DPs), as well as MMc and MMe, are synthesized from the precursor. Using antibodies against the MMG2-DPs, we demonstrate that neuronal processes that stain for MMG2-DPs are found in the buccal ganglion, which contains the feeding network, and in the buccal musculature including the ARC muscle. Surprisingly, however, no immunostaining is observed in buccal neurons including the ARC motoneurons. In situ hybridization reveals only few MMG2-expressing neurons that are mostly located in the pedal ganglion. Using immunohistochemical and electrophysiological techniques, we demonstrate that some of these pedal neurons project to the buccal ganglion and are the likely source of the MMG2-DP innervation of the feeding network and musculature. We show that the MMG2-DPs are bioactive both centrally and peripherally: they bias egestive feeding programs toward ingestive ones, and they modulate ARC muscle contractions. The multiple actions of the MMG2-DPs suggest that these peptides play a broad role in behavioral plasticity and that the pedal-buccal projection neurons that express them are a novel source of extrinsic modulation of the feeding system of Aplysia.
Posterior parietal cortex (PPC) may contribute to visual selection by exerting top-down influences on visual processing. To seek direct evidence for this, we used 10 Hz repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) over right or left PPC in nine healthy volunteers during a partial (selective) report task that allows quantitative assessment of top-down control and other parameters. Participants reported digits in a relevant color (&quot;targets&quot;) but not those in an irrelevant color (&quot;nontargets&quot;) from a brief masked display, in which a target could appear alone or together with an accompanying item (nontarget or target) in the same or opposite hemifield. Generally, a given target is identified better when presented with a nontarget than with another target, indicating top-down selection of task-relevant targets; this applied here with no rTMS or left PPC rTMS. However, rTMS over the right PPC changed the performance pattern. A left target no longer impeded report of a right target more strongly than did a left nontarget, whereas the greater impact of a right target than a right nontarget in disrupting report of a left target was increased. Formal analysis in terms of Bundesen's (1990) theory of visual attention indicated that right PPC rTMS diminished top-down control for the left hemifield while enhancing this for the right hemifield, particularly for bilateral two-item displays. These findings indicate a role for right PPC in top-down spatial selection, which applies even when the target is defined by a nonspatial property (here color).
The opioid-like neuropeptide nociceptin/orphanin FQ (N/OFQ) and its receptor (NOP) are expressed in the substantia nigra (SN), a brain area containing dopamine neurons that degenerate in Parkinson's disease. Endogenous N/OFQ facilitates nigral glutamate release and inhibits nigrostriatal dopamine transmission and motor behavior. Here, we present evidence suggesting that endogenous N/OFQ may contribute to Parkinson's disease. Pharmacological blockade of the SN N/OFQ-NOP receptor system attenuated parkinsonian-like akinesia/hypokinesia in 6-hydroxydopamine hemilesioned or haloperidol-treated rats, whereas deletion of the NOP receptor gene conferred mice partial protection from haloperidol-induced motor depression. The antiparkinsonian action of NOP receptor antagonists was associated with reduction of glutamate release in the SN. In 6-hydroxydopamine hemilesioned rats, enhancement of N/OFQ expression and release was detected in the lesioned compared with the unlesioned SN, indicating that parkinsonism may be associated with overactivation of the N/OFQ-NOP receptor system in the SN. Finally, deletion of the N/OFQ gene conferred mice partial protection against 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-induced loss of SN dopamine neurons. Based on these data, we propose that NOP receptor antagonists may represent a novel approach for combined (symptomatic and neuroprotective) therapy of Parkinson's disease.

Extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) signaling is important for neuronal synaptic plasticity. We report here that the protein kinase ribosomal S6 kinase (RSK)2, a downstream target of ERK, uses a C-terminal motif to bind several PDZ domain proteins in heterologous systems and in vivo. Different RSK isoforms display distinct specificities in their interactions with PDZ domain proteins. Mutation of the RSK2 PDZ ligand does not inhibit RSK2 activation in intact cells or phosphorylation of peptide substrates by RSK2 in vitro but greatly reduces RSK2 phosphorylation of PDZ domain proteins of the Shank family in heterologous cells. In primary neurons, NMDA receptor (NMDA-R) activation leads to ERK and RSK2 activation and RSK-dependent phosphorylation of transfected Shank3. RSK2-PDZ domain interactions are functionally important for synaptic transmission because neurons expressing kinase-dead RSK2 display a dramatic reduction in frequency of AMPA-type glutamate receptor-mediated miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents, an effect dependent on the PDZ ligand. These results suggest that binding of RSK2 to PDZ domain proteins and phosphorylation of these proteins or their binding partners regulates excitatory synaptic transmission.
Cyclin-dependent kinase (Cdk)5 is a key regulator of neural development. We have previously demonstrated that Cdk5/p35 are localized to the postsynaptic muscle and are implicated in the regulation of neuregulin/ErbB signaling in myotube culture. To further elucidate whether Cdk5 activity contributes to neuromuscular junction (NMJ) development in vivo, the NMJ of Cdk5-/- mice was examined. Consistent with our previous demonstration that Cdk5 phosphorylates ErbB2/3 to regulate its tyrosine phosphorylation, we report here that the phosphorylation of ErbB2 and ErbB3 and the ErbB2 kinase activity are reduced in Cdk5-deficient muscle. In addition, Cdk5-/- mice also display morphological abnormalities at the NMJ pre- and postsynaptically. Whereas the outgrowth of the main nerve trunk is grossly normal, the intramuscular nerve projections exhibit profuse and anomalous branching patterns in the Cdk5-/- embryos. The central band of acetylcholine receptor (AChR) clusters is also wider in Cdk5-/- diaphragms, together with the absence of S100 immunoreactivity along the phrenic nerve during late embryonic stages. Moreover, we unexpectedly discovered that the agrin-induced formation of large AChR clusters is significantly increased in primary muscle cultures prepared from Cdk5-null mice and in C2C12 myotubes when Cdk5 activity was suppressed. These abnormalities are accompanied by elevated frequency of miniature endplate potentials in Cdk5-null diaphragm. Taken together, our findings reveal the essential role of Cdk5 in regulating the development of motor axons and neuromuscular synapses in vivo.
Compared to other rat strains, the Wistar-Kyoto rats show increased amount of REM sleep, one of the characteristic sleep changes observed in depressed patients. The aims of this study were firstly to validate a simple sleep stage discriminator and then compare the effect of antidepressants on suppression of rapid eye movement (REM) sleep in Wistar-Kyoto rats and an outbred rat strain (Sprague-Dawley). Rats were implanted with telemetry transmitters with electroencephalogram/electromyogram electrodes. Following recovery, the animals were orally dosed at light onset with either desipramine (20 mg/kg), fluoxetine (10 mg/kg), citalopram (10 or 40 mg/kg) or vehicle in a cross-over design. Every 12-s epoch was automatically scored as WAKE, NREM or REM sleep. Results confirm that Wistar-Kyoto rats show increased amount of REM sleep and decreased REM latency compared with Sprague-Dawley rats. All antidepressants significantly suppressed REM sleep in Sprague-Dawley rats, but only the high dose of citalopram suppressed REM sleep in Wistar-Kyoto rats. These findings suggest that the enhanced REM activity in Wistar-Kyoto rats is less sensitive to the effect of antidepressants and therefore does not provide any additional predictive validity for assessing antidepressant efficacy.
The antinociceptive profile of selected histamine H(2) and histamine H(3) receptor antagonists led to the discovery of improgan, a non-brain-penetrating analgesic agent which does not act on known histamine receptors. Because no chemical congener of improgan has yet been discovered which has both antinociceptive and brain-penetrating properties, the present study investigated the antinociceptive effects of a series of chemical compounds related to zolantidine, a brain-penetrating histamine H(2) receptor antagonist. The drugs studied presently contain the piperidinomethylphenoxy (PMPO) moiety, hypothesized to introduce brain-penetrating characteristics. Following intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) dosing in rats, six of eight drugs produced dose- and time-related antinociception on both the tail flick and hot plate tests over a nearly eight-fold range of potencies. Ataxia and other motor side effects were observed after high doses of these drugs, but two of the compounds (SKF94674 and loxtidine) produced maximal antinociception at doses which were completely devoid of these motor effects. Consistent with the hypothesis that PMPO-containing drugs are brain-penetrating analgesics, SKF94674 and another derivative (JB-9322) showed dose-dependent antinociceptive activity 15 to 30 min after systemic dosing in mice, but these effects were accompanied by seizures and death beginning 45 min after dosing. Other drugs showed a similar pattern of antinociceptive and toxic effects. In addition, loxtidine produced seizures without antinociception, whereas zolantidine produced neither effect after systemic dosing in mice. Although several of the drugs tested have histamine H(2) receptor antagonist activity, neither the antinociception nor the toxicity was correlated with histamine H(2) receptor activity. The present results are the first to demonstrate the existence of brain-penetrating antinociceptive agents chemically related to zolantidine and improgan, but further studies are needed to understand the mechanisms of both the pain relief and toxicity produced by these agents.
Several lines of evidence indicate that estrogen affects hippocampal synaptic plasticity through rapid nongenomic mechanisms, possibly by binding to plasma membrane estrogen receptors (ERs). We have previously shown that ERalpha immunoreactivity (ir) is in select interneuron nuclei and in several extranuclear locations, including dendritic spines and axon terminals, within the rat hippocampal formation (Milner et al., [2001] J Comp Neurol 429:355). The present study sought to determine the cellular and subcellular locations of ERbeta-ir. Coronal hippocampal sections from diestrus rats were immunolabeled with antibodies to ERbeta and examined by light and electron microscopy. By light microscopy, ERbeta-ir was primarily in the perikarya and proximal dendrites of pyramidal and granule cells. ERbeta-ir was also in a few nonprincipal cells and scattered nuclei in the ventral subiculum and CA3 region. Ultrastructural analysis revealed ERbeta-ir at several extranuclear sites in all hippocampal subregions. ERbeta-ir was affiliated with cytoplasmic organelles, especially endomembranes and mitochondria, and with plasma membranes primarily of principal cell perikarya and proximal dendrites. ERbeta-ir was in dendritic spines, many arising from pyramidal and granule cell dendrites. In both dendritic shafts and spines, ERbeta-ir was near the perisynaptic zone adjacent to synapses formed by unlabeled terminals. ERbeta-ir was in preterminal axons and axon terminals, associated with clusters of small, synaptic vesicles. ERbeta-labeled terminals formed both asymmetric and symmetric synapses with dendrites. ERbeta-ir also was detected in glial profiles. The cellular and subcellular localization of ERbeta-ir was generally similar to that of ERalpha, except that ERbeta was more extensively found at extranuclear sites. These results suggest that ERbeta may serve primarily as a nongenomic transducer of estrogen actions in the hippocampal formation.
The cortical subventricular zone (SVZ), a proliferative compartment in the forebrain, has a uniquely important role during the second half of intrauterine development in human. This is best observed in numerous neonatal pathologies that result from prenatal SVZ damage. These conditions highlight a need to better understand the contribution of the SVZ to the development of the human cerebral cortex. With this goal in mind, we analyzed histological organization, cell proliferation, and molecular diversity in the human fetal SVZ from 7-27 gestational weeks (gw) using light and electron microscopy, immunohistochemistry, and in vitro methods. Complex histological organization distinguishes human cortical SVZ from that of other mammals. In vitro quantification showed that approximately 50% of cells in the VZ/SVZ region are neurons, 30% are astroglia, 15% are nestin+ cells, with other cell types representing smaller fractions. Immunolabeling with BrdU showed that a considerable number of cells ( approximately 10%) are generated in the human cortical SVZ during midgestation (18-24 gw) under in vitro conditions. Immunofluorescence with cell type-specific markers and BrdU revealed that all major cell types, neural precursors (nestin+), astroglia including radial glia (GFAP+, vimentin+), and oligodendrocyte progenitors (PDGFR-alpha+) were proliferating. An increase in the ratio of the size of the SVZ to VZ, protracted period of cell proliferation, as well as cellular and histological complexity of the human fetal SVZ are directly related to the evolutionary expansion of the human cerebral cortex.
This study investigated whether a mirror mechanism exists for bipedal locomotion. We employed the soleus (plantar flexor) Hoffman reflex to investigate corticospinal excitability at the spinal level during observation of bipedal locomotion. The differential amplitude modulation of the left soleus Hoffman reflex during observation of bipedal heel-stepping (plantar dorsiflexion) (324+/-53 microV), standing still (383+/-60 microV), and bipedal toe-stepping (plantar flexion) (419+/-53 microV) reached significance (P &lt; 0.05). The observation of bipedal toe-stepping produced a greater increase in spinal excitability than the observation of bipedal heel-stepping. These findings support the suggestion that there is a mirror mechanism for bipedal locomotion and they demonstrate that spinal excitability for observation of bipedal locomotion mirrors that for execution of bipedal locomotion.
We developed an algorithm that decodes categorical signals from the single-trial activity of a neuronal population in the monkey inferotemporal cortex. We defined a global category (i.e. human faces vs. monkey faces vs. shape) and fine categories (i.e. human identity, monkey expression, and shape form) from the single-trial activity. The accuracy of estimation for the trials was roughly 100% for the global category and 88.1% for the fine categories. The accuracy of stimulus identification for the trials was 70.4%. These results suggest that signals concerning global and fine categories as well as object identification can be decoded using the single-trial activity of a neuronal population in the inferotemporal cortex.
Autosomal recessive mandibuloacral dysplasia [mandibuloacral dysplasia type A (MADA); Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man (OMIM) no. 248370] is caused by a mutation in LMNA encoding lamin A/C. Here we show that this mutation causes accumulation of the lamin A precursor protein, a marked alteration of the nuclear architecture and, hence, chromatin disorganization. Heterochromatin domains are altered or completely lost in MADA nuclei, consistent with the finding that heterochromatin-associated protein HP1beta and histone H3 methylated at lysine 9 and their nuclear envelope partner protein lamin B receptor (LBR) are delocalized and solubilized. Both accumulation of lamin A precursor and chromatin defects become more severe in older patients. These results strongly suggest that altered chromatin remodeling is a key event in the cascade of epigenetic events causing MADA and could be related to the premature-aging phenotype.
We present a temporal map of key processes that occur during decision making, which consists of three stages: 1) formation of preferences among options, 2) selection and execution of an action, and 3) experience or evaluation of an outcome. This framework can be used to integrate findings of traditional choice psychology, neuropsychology, brain lesion studies, and functional neuroimaging. Decision making is distributed across various brain centers, which are differentially active across these stages of decision making. This approach can be used to follow developmental trajectories of the different stages of decision making and to identify unique deficits associated with distinct psychiatric disorders.


The effect of reserpine induced dopamine depletion on the binding of the putative dopamine-D3 receptor ligand, [(11)C]RGH-1756 was examined in the monkey brain with positron emission tomography (PET). In a previous series of experiments, we have made an attempt to selectively label D3 receptors in the monkey brain using [(11)C]RGH-1756. Despite high selectivity and affinity of RGH-1756 in vitro, [(11)C]RGH-1756 displayed only low specific binding to D3 receptors in vivo. The aim of the present study was to examine whether low specific binding of [(11)C]RGH-1756 is caused by insufficient in vivo affinity of the ligand, or by high physiological occupancy of D3 receptors by endogenous dopamine (DA). PET experiments were performed in three monkeys under baseline conditions and after administration of reserpine (0.5 mg/kg). The results of the baseline measurements corresponded well to our earlier observations with [(11)C]RGH-1756. Reserpine caused no evident change in the regional distribution of [(11)C]RGH-1756 in the monkey brain, and no conspicuous regional accumulation of activity could be observed. After reserpine treatment there was no evident increase of specific binding and binding potential (BP) of [(11)C]RGH-1756. The lack of increased [(11)C]RGH-1756 binding after reserpine treatment indicates that competition with endogenous DA is not the predominant reason for the failure of the radioligand to label D3 receptors. Therefore, the low binding of [(11)C]RGH-1756 could largely be explained by the need for very high affinity of radioligand for D3 receptors in vivo, to obtain a suitable signal for the minute densities of D3 receptors expressed in the primate brain.
Spasticity in rat hindlimbs was induced by compressing cervical spinal cord with a wax ball. Ashworth score and H-reflex were measured 1 week after the surgery. The results showed that: (1) muscle spasm was detected in the hindlimbs a week after the operation and maintained at least 8 weeks, (2) in the spastic animals, dynorphin A (1-17)-ir decreased significantly in thoracic and lumbar segments of the spinal cord and (3) peripheral administration of kappa receptor agonist U50488H and electrical stimulation at 100 Hz effectively relieved the muscle spasm. Our data supported the note that the reduction of endogenous dynorphin A (1-17) might play an important role in the pathogenesis of spinally induced muscle spasticity and the replenishment of its shortage might relieve the spasticity.
Recent characterization of abnormal phosphatidylcholine metabolism in tumor cells by nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) has identified novel fingerprints of tumor progression that are potentially useful as clinical diagnostic indicators. In the present study, we analyzed the concentrations of phosphatidylcholine metabolites, activities of phosphocholine-producing enzymes, and uptake of [methyl-14C]choline in human epithelial ovarian carcinoma cell lines (EOC) compared with normal or immortalized ovary epithelial cells (EONT). Quantification of phosphatidylcholine metabolites contributing to the 1H NMR total choline resonance (3.20-3.24 ppm) revealed intracellular [phosphocholine] and [total choline] of 2.3 +/- 0.9 and 5.2 +/- 2.4 nmol/10(6) cells, respectively, with a glycerophosphocholine/phosphocholine ratio of 0.95 +/- 0.93 in EONT cells; average [phosphocholine] was 3- to 8-fold higher in EOC cells (P &lt; 0.0001), becoming the predominant phosphatidylcholine metabolite, whereas average glycerophosphocholine/phosphocholine values decreased significantly to &lt; or =0.2. Two-dimensional (phosphocholine/total choline, [total choline]) and (glycerophosphocholine/total choline, [total choline]) maps allowed separate clustering of EOC from EONT cells (P &lt; 0.0001, 95% confidence limits). Rates of choline kinase activity in EOC cells were 12- to 24-fold higher (P &lt; 0.03) than those in EONT cells (basal rate, 0.5 +/- 0.1 nmol/10(6) cells/h), accounting for a consistently elevated (5- to 15-fold) [methyl-14C]choline uptake after 1-hour incubation (P &lt; 0.0001). The overall activity of phosphatidylcholine-specific phospholipase C and phospholipase D was also higher ( approximately 5-fold) in EOC cells, suggesting that both biosynthetic and catabolic pathways of the phosphatidylcholine cycle likely contribute to phosphocholine accumulation. Evidence of abnormal phosphatidylcholine metabolism might have implications in EOC biology and might provide an avenue to the development of noninvasive clinical tools for EOC diagnosis and treatment follow-up.
Differentiation of neural crest-derived noradrenergic neurons depends upon signaling mediated downstream of BMP binding to cognate receptors and involving cAMP. Compiled data from many groups suggest that neurogenesis and cell type-specific noradrenergic marker gene regulation is coordinated through the expression and function of the basic helix-loop-helix DNA binding protein HAND2 and the homeodomain DNA binding protein Phox2a. However, information detailing how BMP-mediated signaling and signaling through cAMP are coordinated has been lacking. We now provide compelling data suggesting that differentiation of noradrenergic sympathetic ganglion neurons depends upon both canonical and non-canonical pathways of BMP-mediated signaling. The non-canonical pathway involves the activation of protein kinase A (PKA) independent of cAMP. This is a novel mechanism in neural crest-derived cells and is necessary to support neurogenesis as well as aspects of DBH promoter regulation involving HAND2 phosphorylation and dimerization. The expression of transcripts encoding HAND2 and Phox2a is regulated via canonical BMP signaling and thus affects both neurogenesis and cell type-specific gene expression. Interestingly, cAMP- and MapK-mediated signaling modulate specific target sites in both the canonical and non-canonical BMP pathways. Activity of MapK is required for HAND2 transcription and thus affects neurogenesis. Signaling affected by cAMP is necessary for the transcription of Phox2a as well as regulation of DBH promoter transactivation by Phox2a and HAND2. We suggest a comprehensive model that shows how BMP- and cAMP-mediated intracellular signaling integrate neurogenesis and cell type-specific noradrenergic marker gene expression and function.
Palladin and alpha-actinin are major components of stress fiber dense bodies, cardiomyocyte Z-discs and neuronal synapses. They function as structural molecules and cytoskeletal regulators but also as docking sites to other proteins. Both antisense and transient overexpression experiments have shown that palladin plays an important role in the regulation of actin cytoskeleton. ArgBP2 is a multi-domain scaffolding protein which shares both the tissue distribution and subcellular localization with palladin. ArgBP2 is directly linked to intracellular signaling cascades by its interaction with Abl family kinases, Pyk2 and the ubiquitin ligase Cbl. It has several actin associated binding partners and has been shown to regulate cytoskeletal dynamics. Here, we show by in vivo and in vitro methods that palladin's amino-terminal poly-proline sequences directly interact with the first carboxy-terminal SH3 domain of ArgBP2. We further demonstrate a direct interaction between alpha-actinin and the amino-terminal segment of ArgBP2. Immunoprecipitation and targeting assays suggest that a three-way complex of the proteins occurs in vivo. The interactions provide an explanation to the previously observed Z-disc-specific localization of ArgBP2 and indicate interplay between signaling adaptors and structural proteins of the Z-disc.
Myotilin is a sarcomeric Z-disc protein that binds F-actin directly and bundles actin filaments, although it does not contain a conventional actin-binding domain. Expression of mutant myotilin leads to sarcomeric alterations in the dominantly inherited limb-girdle muscular dystrophy 1A and in myofibrillar myopathy/desmin-related myopathy. Together, with previous in vitro studies, this indicates that myotilin has an important function in the assembly and maintenance of Z-discs. This study characterises further the interaction between myotilin and actin. Functionally important regions in myotilin were identified by actin pull-down and yeast two-hybrid assays and with a novel strategy that combines in vitro DNA transposition-based peptide insertion mutagenesis with phenotype analysis in yeast cells. The shortest fragment to bind actin was the second Ig domain together with a short C-terminal sequence. Concerted action of the first and second Ig domain was, however, necessary for the functional activity of myotilin, as verified by analysis of transposon mutants, actin binding and phenotypic effect in mammalian cells. Furthermore, the Ig domains flanked with N- and C-terminal regions were needed for actin-bundling, indicating that the mere actin-binding sequence was insufficient for the actin-regulating activity. None of the four known disease-associated mutations altered the actin-organising ability. These results, together with previous studies in titin and kettin, identify the Ig domain as an actin-binding unit.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common and incurable neurodegenerative disease, affecting 1% of the population over the age of 65. Despite a well-described clinical and pathological phenotype, the molecular mechanisms which lead to neurodegeneration remain elusive. However, there is a wealth of evidence from both toxin based models and genetic based models, which suggest a major etiologic role for mitochondrial dysfunction, protein aggregation, the ubiquitin-proteasome system and kinase signalling pathways in the pathogenesis of PD. Ultimately, an understanding of the molecular events which precipitate neurodegeneration in idiopathic PD will enable the development of targeted and effective therapeutic strategies. We review the latest evidence for the proposed molecular processes and discuss their relevance to the pathogenesis of sporadic PD.
Over three decades have passed since Marie Joubert described the original proband for Joubert syndrome, a rare neurological disorder featuring absence of the cerebellar vermis (i.e. midline). Efforts at deciphering the molecular basis for this disease have been complicated by the clinical and genetic heterogeneity as well as extensive phenotypic overlap with other syndromes. However, progress has been made in recent years with the mapping of three genetic loci and the identification of mutations in two genes, AHI1 and NPHP1. These genes encode proteins with some shared functional domains, but their role in brain development is unclear. Clues may come from studies of related syndromes, including Bardet-Biedl syndrome and nephronophthisis, for which all of the encoded proteins localize to primary cilia. The data suggest a tantalizing connection between intraflagellar transport in cilia and brain development.
Tau and alpha-synuclein are both proteins implicated in the pathology of neurodegenerative disease. Here we have investigated the mechanisms of axonal transport of tau and alpha-synuclein, because failure of axonal transport has been implicated in the development of several neurodegenerative disorders. We found that the transport of both of these proteins depend on an intact microtubule- but not actin-cytoskeleton, and that tau and alpha-synuclein both move at overall slow rates of transport. We used time-lapse video microscopy to obtain images of live neurons that had been transfected with plasmids expressing proteins tagged with enhanced green fluorescent protein. We found that particulate structures containing tau or alpha-synuclein travel rapidly when moving along axons but spend the majority of the time paused, and these structures have similar characteristics to those previously observed for neurofilaments. The motile particles containing tau or alpha-synuclein colocalise with the fast-transporting molecular motor kinesin-1 in neurons. Co-immunoprecipitation experiments demonstrate that tau and alpha-synuclein are each associated with complexes containing kinesin-1, whereas only alpha-synuclein appears to interact with dynein-containing complexes. In vitro glutathione S-transferase-binding assays using rat brain homogenate or recombinant protein as bait reveals a direct interaction of kinesin-1 light chains 1 and 2 with tau, but not with alpha-synuclein. Our findings suggest that the axonal transport of tau occurs via a mechanism utilising fast transport motors, including the kinesin family of proteins, and that alpha-synuclein transport in neurons may involve both kinesin and dynein motor proteins.
Behavioral neurophysiology and other kinds of behavioral research often involve the delivery of liquid rewards to experimental subjects performing some kind of operant task. Available systems use gravity or pumps to deliver these fluids, but such methods are poorly suited to moment-to-moment control of the volume, timing, and type of fluid delivered. The design described here overcomes these limitations using an electronic control unit, a pressurized reservoir unit, and an electronically controlled solenoid. The control unit monitors reservoir pressure and provides precisely timed solenoid activation signals. It also stores calibration tables and does on-the-fly interpolation to support computer-controlled delivery calibrated directly in milliliters. The reservoir provides pressurized liquid to a solenoid mounted near the subject. Multiple solenoids, each supplied by a separate reservoir unit and control unit, can be stacked in close proximity to allow instantaneous selection of which liquid reward is delivered. The precision of droplet delivery was verified by weighing discharged droplets on a commercial analytical balance.
The hyaluronic acid (HA) hydrogels modified with laminin were used for implantation in rat brain in present study, in order to investigate its effects in reparation of injury in the CNS. Cross-linked HA hydrogels were synthesized and their characteristics were analyzed. Laminin, an extracellular matrix protein, which participates in neuronal development and survival, was immobilized on the backbone of the hydrogels. Hydrogels unmodified and modified with laminin were implanted into cortical defects mechanically created in rats and their ability to improve tissue reconstruction was then evaluated. After 6 and 12 weeks of implantation, sections of brains were processed with Nissl and Glees staining for revealing neural cell bodies and fibers, with DAB histochemistry for detecting the blood vessels, as well as with immunocytochemistry for recognizing GFAP. The sections were also taken to SEM and TEM for ultrastructral examination. The results showed that the HA hydrogels synthesized had mechanical properties and rheological behavior similar to the brain tissue. After being implanted into the lesion of the cortex, the porous hydrogels created a scaffold, which could support cell infiltration and angiogenesis, and simultaneously inhibit the formation of glial scar. In addition, HA hydrogels modified with laminin could promote neurite extension. It seems possible that the tissue engineering technique may pave the way to repair injury in the CNS as suggested by the results in present study.
Chondroitin sulfate is a long sulfated polysaccharide with enormous structural heterogeneity that binds with various proteins, such as growth factors, in a structure-dependent manner. In this study, we analyzed the expression of chondroitin sulfate in the postnatally developing cerebellar cortex by using three monoclonal antibodies against chondroitin sulfate, MO-225, 2H6, and CS-56, which recognize different structural domains in this polysaccharide. During the first postnatal week, the patterns of immunohistochemical staining made by these antibodies were quite similar, and the molecular layer, the granule cell layer, and Bergmann glial fibers in the external granular layer were densely stained. After postnatal day 12 (P12), the expression of 2H6 epitopes was down-regulated in the molecular layer, and the expression of CS-56 epitopes in this layer was also reduced after P16. On the other hand, the strong expression of MO-225 epitopes, GlcA(2S)beta1-3GalNAc(6S) (D unit)-containing structures, remained until adulthood. These chondroitin sulfate epitopes were observed around Purkinje cells, including cell soma and dendrites. Detailed immunohistochemical analysis suggested that chondroitin sulfate was deposited between Purkinje cell surfaces and the processes of Bergmann glia. Furthermore, the amount of pleiotrophin, a heparin-binding growth factor, in the cultured cerebellar slices was remarkably diminished after treatment with chondroitinase ABC or D unit-rich chondroitin sulfate. With the previous findings that pleiotrophin binds to D unit-rich chondroitin sulfate, we suggest that the D-type structure is important for the signaling of pleiotrophin, which plays roles in Purkinje cell-Bergmann glia interaction, and that the structural changes of chondroitin sulfate regulate this signaling pathway.
The adult central nervous system (CNS) is generally thought of as a postmitotic organ. However, DNA labeling studies have shown that one major population of nonneuronal cells, called microglia, retain significant mitotic potential. Microglial cell division is prominent during acute CNS injury involving neuronal damage or death. Prior work from this laboratory has shown that purified microglia maintained in vitro with continual mitogenic stimulation exhibit telomere shortening before entering senescence. In the current study, we sought to investigate whether telomere shortening occurs in dividing microglia in vivo. For this purpose, we used a nerve injury model that is known to trigger localized microglial proliferation in a well-defined CNS region, the facial motor nucleus. Adult Sprague-Dawley rats underwent facial nerve axotomy, and facial motor nuclei were microdissected after 1, 4, 7, and 10 days. Whole tissue samples were subjected to measurements of telomere length, telomerase activity, and telomerase protein. Results revealed a tendency for all of these parameters to be increased in lesioned samples. In addition, microglial cells isolated directly from axotomized facial nuclei with fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS) showed increased telomerase activity relative to unoperated controls, suggesting that microglia are the primary cell type responsible for the increases observed in whole tissue samples. Overall, the results show that microglia activated by injury are capable of maintaining telomere length via telomerase during periods of high proliferation in vivo. We conclude that molecular mechanisms pertaining to telomere maintenance are active in the injured CNS.
Lithium has acute and chronic effects on the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal gland (HPA) axis that are important for both therapeutic (e.g., treatment of mood disorders) and experimental (e.g., as the toxin in conditioned taste aversion studies) applications. We visualized lithium-induced activation of the HPA axis in rats by the adrenal expression of inducible cAMP early repressor (ICER), which is activated by elevated intracellular cAMP. We have shown that 1) intraperitoneal lithium chloride (LiCl) induces transient expression of ICER and c-fos mRNAs in the rat adrenal cortex and increases plasma level of corticosterone; 2) the cortical expression of ICER mRNA by LiCl occurs in a dose-dependent manner; 3) adrenal induction of ICER expression is delayed compared with c-fos expression; 4) dexamethasone pretreatment (4 mg/kg) blocks corticosterone release and adrenocortical ICER induction either by systemic LiCl (76 mg/kg) or by restraint stress; and 5) intracerebroventricular LiCl (127 microg/5 microl) is sufficient for adrenocortical, but not medullary, ICER induction. These results suggest that adrenocortical ICER expression could serve as a reliable marker for lithium-induced activation of the HPA axis. Understanding the activation of immediate-early genes such as c-fos or ICER in response to a single LiCl injection is an important first step in understanding the long-term changes in gene expression elicited by lithium that are involved in its therapeutic and toxic effect. The pattern and mechanism by which lithium stimulates ICER transcription in the adrenal gland would serve as a useful model system in future studies of lithium.
The TM2-TM3 extracellular loop is critical for activation of the Cys-loop family of ligand-gated ion channels. The contribution of aspartate 298 (D298), an amino acid that links the transmembrane domain 2 (TM2) to the TM2-TM3 loop, in mouse 5-hydroxytryptamine(3A) (5-HT(3A)) receptor function was probed with site-directed mutagenesis in the present study. This negatively charged residue was replaced with an alanine to neutralize the charge, with a glutamate to conserve the charge, or with an arginine to reverse the charge. Human embryonic kidney 293 (HEK 293) cells transfected with the wild-type and mutant receptors were studied by combining whole-cell patch-clamp recording with fast agonist application. The D--&gt;A or D--&gt;R mutations resulted in a receptor with reduced 5-HT potency, and accelerated kinetics of desensitization and deactivation. In addition, the efficacy of partial agonists was reduced by the D--&gt;A mutation. The D--&gt;E mutation produced a receptor with properties similar to those of the wild-type receptor. In addition, the potential role of this residue in modulation of the receptor by extracellular calcium ([Ca(2)(+)](o)) was investigated. Increasing [Ca(2)(+)](o) inhibited 5-HT-activated currents and altered receptor kinetics in a similar manner in the wild-type and D298E receptors, and this alteration was eliminated by the D--&gt;A and D--&gt;R mutations. Our data suggest that the charge at D298 participates in transitions between functional states of the 5-HT(3A) receptor, and provide evidence that the charge of the side-chain at residue D298 contributes to channel gating kinetics and is crucial for Ca(2)(+) modulation.
Different patterns of prefrontal activation are commonly found in studies of episodic and source memory (typically anterior and lateral) compared to those found in studies of autobiographical memory (typically ventromedial). We investigated a proposal that the former pattern reflects contextual interference when retrieving events that occurred in similar contexts. We used virtual reality to simulate contextually varied life-like events, in which subjects received distinct objects from a number of people in a number of locations. We compared fMRI data from two experiments in which the number of events per context varied. The first experiment (Burgess, N., Maguire, E.A., Spiers, H.J., and O'Keefe, J. 2001. A temporoparietal and prefrontal network for retrieving the spatial context of lifelike events. Neuroimage 14, 439-453) involved 16 objects received from one of two people in one of two locations. The second experiment involved 20 objects, each received from a different person in a different location. The first experiment showed extensive bilateral activation of anterior and lateral prefrontal cortex, as well as a medial temporal and parietal network characteristic of both autobiographical and episodic memory. In the second study, the prefrontal activations were largely absent, while the medial parietal and temporal activations remained, and a ventromedial prefrontal area was additionally activated. Direct comparisons revealed large areas of significantly reduced activation in BA10, with lesser reductions in lateral prefrontal regions. We suggest that involvement of these prefrontal regains in episodic and source memory reflects the use of paradigms involving many events and few sources rather than any fundamental processing requirement of contextual retrieval in the absence of interference.
We investigated the perception and categorization of speech (vowels, syllables) and non-speech (tones, tonal contours) stimuli using MEG. In a delayed-match-to-sample paradigm, participants listened to two sounds and decided if they sounded exactly the same or different (auditory discrimination, AUD), or if they belonged to the same or different categories (category discrimination, CAT). Stimuli across the two conditions were identical; the category definitions for each kind of sound were learned in a training session before recording. MEG data were analyzed using an induced wavelet transform method to investigate task-related differences in time-frequency patterns. In auditory cortex, for both AUD and CAT conditions, an alpha (8-13 Hz) band activation enhancement during the delay period was found for all stimulus types. A clear difference between AUD and CAT conditions was observed for the non-speech stimuli in auditory areas and for both speech and non-speech stimuli in frontal areas. The results suggest that alpha band activation in auditory areas is related to both working memory and categorization for new non-speech stimuli. The fact that the dissociation between speech and non-speech occurred in auditory areas, but not frontal areas, points to different categorization mechanisms and networks for newly learned (non-speech) and natural (speech) categories.
In this note we describe a heuristic, starting with a dimensional analysis, which relates hemodynamic changes to the spectral profile of ongoing EEG activity. In brief, this analysis suggests that 'activation', as indexed by increases in hemodynamic signals, should be associated with a loss of power in lower EEG frequencies, relative to higher frequencies. The fact that activation is expressed in terms of frequency (i.e., per second) is consistent with a dimensional analysis in the sense that activations reflect the rate of energy dissipation (per second). In this heuristic, activation causes an acceleration of temporal dynamics leading to (i) increased energy dissipation; (ii) decreased effective membrane time constants; (iii) increased effective coupling among neuronal ensembles; and (iv) a shift in the EEG spectral profile to higher frequencies. These predictions are consistent with empirical observations of how changes in the EEG spectrum are expressed hemodynamically. Furthermore, the heuristic provides a simple measure of neuronal activation based on spectral analyses of EEG.
Although the neural underpinnings of music cognition have been widely studied in the last 5 years, relatively little is known about the neuroscience underlying emotional reactions that music induces in listeners. Many people spend a significant amount of time listening to music, and its emotional power is assumed but not well understood. Here, we use functional and effective connectivity analyses to show for the first time that listening to music strongly modulates activity in a network of mesolimbic structures involved in reward processing including the nucleus accumbens (NAc) and the ventral tegmental area (VTA), as well as the hypothalamus and insula, which are thought to be involved in regulating autonomic and physiological responses to rewarding and emotional stimuli. Responses in the NAc and the VTA were strongly correlated pointing to an association between dopamine release and NAc response to music. Responses in the NAc and the hypothalamus were also strongly correlated across subjects, suggesting a mechanism by which listening to pleasant music evokes physiological reactions. Effective connectivity confirmed these findings, and showed significant VTA-mediated interaction of the NAc with the hypothalamus, insula, and orbitofrontal cortex. The enhanced functional and effective connectivity between brain regions mediating reward, autonomic, and cognitive processing provides insight into understanding why listening to music is one of the most rewarding and pleasurable human experiences.
The premotor cortex is well known for its role in motor planning. In addition, recent studies have shown that it is also involved in nonmotor functions such as attention and memory, a notion derived from both animal neurophysiology and human functional imaging. The present study is an attempt to bridge the gap between these experimental techniques in the human brain, using a task initially designed to dissociate attention from intention in the monkey, and recently adapted for a functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study [Simon, S.R., Meunier, M., Piettre, L., Berardi, A.M., Segebarth, C.M., Boussaoud, D. (2002). Spatial attention and memory versus motor preparation: premotor cortex involvement as revealed by fMRI. J. Neurophysiol., 88, 2047-57]. Intracranial EEG was recorded from the cortical regions preferentially active in the spatial attention and/or working memory task and those involved in motor intention. The results show that, among the different intracranial EEG responses, only the high gamma frequency (60-200 Hz) oscillatory activity both dissociates attention/memory from motor intention and spatially colocalizes with the fMRI-identified premotor substrates of these two functions. This finding provides electrophysiological confirmation that the human premotor cortex is involved in spatial attention and/or working memory. Additionally, it provides timely support to the idea that high gamma frequency oscillations are involved in the cascade of neural processes underlying the hemodynamic responses measured with fMRI [Logothetis, N.K., Pauls, J., Augath, M., Trinath, T. and Oeltermann, A. (2001). Neurophysiological investigation of the basis of the fMRI signal. Nature, 412, 150-7], and suggests a functional selectivity of the gamma oscillations that could be critical for future EEG investigations, whether experimental or clinical.
We present a novel method to measure relative latencies between functionally connected regions using phase-delay of functional magnetic resonance imaging data. Derived from the phase component of coherency, this quantity estimates the linear delay between two time-series. In conjunction with coherence, derived from the magnitude component of coherency, phase-delay can be used to examine the temporal properties of functional networks. In this paper, we apply coherence and phase-delay methods to fMRI data in order to investigate dynamics of the motor network during task and rest periods. Using the supplementary motor area (SMA) as a reference region, we calculated relative latencies between the SMA and other regions within the motor network including the dorsal premotor cortex (PMd), primary motor cortex (M1), and posterior parietal cortex (PPC). During both the task and rest periods, we measured significant delays that were consistent across subjects. Specifically, we found significant delays between the SMA and the bilateral PMd, bilateral M1, and bilateral PPC during the task condition. During the rest condition, we found that the temporal dynamics of the network changed relative to the task period. No significant delays were measured between the SMA and the left PM and left M1; however, the right PM, right M1, and bilateral PPC were significantly delayed with respect to the SMA. Additionally, we observed significant map-wise differences in the dynamics of the network at task compared to the network at rest. These differences were observed in the interaction between the SMA and the left M1, left superior frontal gyrus, and left middle frontal gyrus. These temporal measurements are important in determining how regions within a network interact and provide valuable information about the sequence of cognitive processes within a network.
Meal size is decreased during the estrous stage of the rat's ovarian reproductive cycle. This is mediated, in part, by estradiol's ability to increase the strength by which negative-feedback signals function to inhibit meal size. For example, we recently reported that the anorectic effect of fenfluramine, a serotonin agonist, is enhanced during estrus. Here, we investigated whether a decrease in the strength of positive-feedback signals, like those related to the taste of food, contributes to the decrease in meal size observed either in estrous rats or following fenfluramine treatment. Rats were given brief access to six sucrose solutions (0.0, 0.025, 0.05, 0.1, 0.2, and 0.4 M) and the mean number of licks to these solutions was monitored in diestrous and estrous rats treated with 1 mg/kg fenfluramine or saline vehicle. Following saline treatment, estrous rats displayed fewer licks than diestrous rats to the 0.025 M sucrose solution. Following fenfluramine treatment, a decrease in the number of licks to 3 of the 5 sucrose solutions was observed in diestrous rats only. This decrease in sucrose palatability was limited to brief access tests, as overnight preference for the 0.025 M sucrose solution was not decreased by fenfluramine in either diestrous or estrous rats. Our findings suggest that estrous rats experience a decrease in the strength of positive-feedback signals elicited by a dilute sucrose solution and that the anorectic effect of fenfluramine is associated with a decline in positive-feedback signaling in the diestrous rat.
The accessory olfactory bulb normally receives chemosensory input from the vomeronasal organ. Input from accessory bulb to medial amygdala for natural pheromone-containing conspecific chemosignals activates both anterior and posterior medial amygdala and elicits or modulates reproductive and social behavior. Here, a non-specific activation of accessory olfactory bulb by infusion of mGluR2 agonist LCCG1 in male hamsters activates immediate-early gene (Fos) expression only in anterior and not posterior medial amygdala. mGluR2 stimulation concurrently with female chemosensory stimulation produces small changes in the normal chemosensory response in medial amygdala but impairs behavior normally driven by the chemosensory input. The distribution of Fos expression, with an increase in anterior but not posterior medial amygdala, is also seen with chemosensory stimulation by chemosignals from other species, socially non-relevant for hamsters, and by artificial electrical stimulation of the vomeronasal organ. We propose that the spatiotemporal pattern of amygdala input is important for eliciting normal species-specific behavior and that artificial and heterospecific stimulation fails to do so because it does not match the required pattern closely enough. Thus, modification of the pattern by addition of non-specific activation from mGluR2 agonist is sufficient to disrupt behavior normally driven by conspecific chemosensory stimulation.
The brain stem auditory system of the chick has proven to be a useful model system for analyzing how the brain encodes temporal information. This paper reviews some of the work on a circuit in the brain stem that compares the timing of information coming from the two ears to determine the location of a sound source. The contralateral projection from the cochlear nucleus, nucleus magnocellularis (NM), to nucleus laminaris (NL) forms a delay line as it proceeds from medial to lateral across NL. NL neurons function like coincidence detectors in that they respond maximally when input from the two ears arrive simultaneously. This arrangement may allow NL to code sound space by the relative level of activity across the nucleus. The head anatomy of the chick allows for enhancement of the functional interaural time differences. Comparing the functional interaural time differences to the length of the neural delay line suggests that each NL can encode approximately one hemifield of sound space. Finally it is suggested that inhibitory input into the NM-NL circuit may provide a means to dynamically adjust the gain of the circuit to allow accurate coding of sound location despite changes in overall sound intensity.
The olfactory bulb expresses one of the highest levels of insulin found in the brain. A high level of expression of the concomitant insulin receptor (IR) kinase is also retained in this brain region, even in the adult. We have previously demonstrated in a heterologous system that insulin modulates the voltage-dependent potassium channel, Kv1.3, through tyrosine phosphorylation of three key residues in the amino and carboxyl terminus of the channel protein. Phosphorylation also induces current suppression of the Kv1.3-contributed current in cultured olfactory bulb neurons (OBNs) of rodents. In order to explore the behavioral importance of this kinase-induced modulation of the channel for the olfactory ability of the animal, mice with a targeted-gene deletion of the insulin receptor were electrophysiologically and behaviorally characterized. Mice heterozygous for the insulin receptor kinase (IR+/-) gene performed the same as wild-type (+/+) mice when challenged with a traditional, non-learning-based task to test gross anosmia. There was also no significant difference across the two genotypes in tests designed to measure exploratory behavior or in a battery of systems physiology experiments designed to assess metabolic energy usage (locomotion, ingestive behaviors, weight, oxygen consumption, and respiratory quotient). Object memory recognition tests suggest that IR+/- mice have an impairment in recognition of familiarized objects; IR+/- mice demonstrate poor performance for both short-term (1 h) and long-term (24 h) memory tests in comparison to that of wild-type mice. Electrophysiological experiments indicate that mitral cell neurons cultured from both heterozygous and homozygous-null mice (IR+/- and IR-/-) have an decreased peak current amplitude compared with that recorded for wild-type (+/+) animals matched for days in vitro (DIV). These data indicate that the loss of one allele of the IR kinase gene modifies the electrical phenotype of the mitral cell neurons in the olfactory bulb without a change in gross olfactory ability. Given our findings that there are no significant changes in metabolic balance of the IR (+/-) mice but some impairment in memory retention, future experiments testing for specific olfactory behaviors or functional deficits in IR-/+ mice models of diabetes will need to either be tasks that do not require learning or will require a different model (such as diet-induced diabetes) that may evoke a stronger phenotype.
First-order kinetics is based on simple exponential decay, usually expressed in base e (Naperian) notation. &quot;Nonexponential&quot; processes, for example, S-shaped functions, are frequently modeled as sums of that elemental construct, and the number of rate constants increases with the number of such terms. A powerful descriptive alternative to sums of simple exponentials is the Gompertz function. In Gompertz kinetics, the rate coefficient of an exponential process is assumed to change exponentially with the independent variable. Nonexponential processes are easily modeled, more efficiently and more accurately than is possible with standard kinetics. Application of Gompertz kinetics to neuroscience research topics ranging from cognitive to molecular is presented to illustrate the power of the model: distribution of nerve fiber diameters, conditioning-testing responses of excitable nerve, psychophysical estimates of taste intensity magnitude, time course of synaptic current, and behavior of membrane conductance during voltage clamp of squid axon.
Dopamine is known to play a critical role in social attachment in monogamous voles. However, little is known about the neurochemical regulation of central dopamine release during pair bond formation. Here we examine the effects on partner preference formation in male prairie voles of neurochemical manipulations in the ventral tegmental area (VTA), a major source of dopamine to brain regions implicated in pair bonding. Administration of NBQX, an AMPA receptor antagonist, or bicuculline, a GABA receptor antagonist, into the VTA induced partner preferences within 6 h in the absence of mating. We also found that, after unilateral administration of NBQX into the VTA, neuronal activation, as indicated by the expression of the immediate early gene c-fos, was decreased in the nucleus accumbens, prefrontal cortex, and medial amygdala, but was unchanged in the lateral septum and in a control region, the arcuate nucleus. These results confirm a role for the VTA in partner preference formation in monogamous voles and extend the list of neurochemicals important in pair bonding to include glutamate and GABA.
We studied the effect of arcuate nucleus (ARC) lesions induced pharmacologically by the perinatal treatment of monosodium l-glutamate (MSG) on the cardiovascular, metabolic, and behavioral responses to fasting. Saline and MSG-treated male Sprague-Dawley rats were instrumented with telemetry devices for measurement of mean arterial pressure (MAP) and heart rate (HR) and housed in room calorimeters at an ambient temperature (T(a)) of 23 degrees C for assessment of oxygen consumption (VO(2)). At baseline, controls and MSG-treated rats had similar MAP (control=95+/-4; MSG=91+/-2 mmHg), HR (control=323+/-4; MSG=324+/-2 bpm), and VO(2) (control=8.7+/-0.3; MSG=8.6+/-0.2 ml/min). There were no differences in fasting-induced reductions in body weight or in food intake upon refeeding. MSG-treatment significantly attenuated fasting-induced reductions in HR and VO(2). This effect was specific to reduced caloric availability, as MSG-treated rats exhibited intact capacity to both increase and decrease HR and VO(2) in response to cold (T(a)=15 degrees C) and to thermoneutrality (T(a)=30 degrees C). Additional studies were performed in saline- and MSG-treated rats chronically treated with beta(1)-adrenergic receptor blockade (atenolol) prior to and during fasting. In controls, the cardiovascular responses to fasting during beta(1)-blockade were blunted and generally mimicked the effects of MSG-treatment, while beta(1)-blockade had no additional effect on MSG-treated rats. The results are consistent with the hypothesis that ARC neuronal signaling is requisite for intact homeostatic responses to fasting and may participate in fasting-induced withdrawal of cardiac sympathetic activity.
The emergence of sex- and estrous cycle-related differences in the anorectic effect of fenfluramine, a serotonin (5-HT) agonist, prompted us to investigate whether these behavioral changes are mediated by estradiol. Rats were ovariectomized and housed in cages that permitted the analysis of feeding and locomotor activity via an automated, computerized system. Using a within-subjects design, we investigated the effects of 1 mg/kg d-fenfluramine and saline vehicle on food intake and wheel running in ovariectomized rats following estradiol benzoate (EB) and oil vehicle treatment. A cyclic regimen of EB treatment was used to mimic the changes in endogenous estradiol secretion over the rat's 4-day estrous cycle. The decrease in food intake following fenfluramine treatment was greater in EB-treated rats, relative to oil-treated rats. Fenfluramine also produced a small but significant decrease in wheel running in ovariectomized rats that was not modulated by EB treatment. Thus, EB's ability to increase the anorectic effect of this dose of fenfluramine appears behaviorally specific. Although the inhibition of food intake by fenfluramine is largely attributed to its ability to increase synaptic levels of 5-HT, additional research involving selective 5-HT receptor agonists and antagonists is necessary to determine whether estradiol interacts with the endogenous 5-HT system to control food intake in the female rat.
Pelvic pain associated with menstruation, i.e., dysmenorrhea, is a chronic pelvic pain that not only interferes with a woman's wellbeing for a large part of her life but also often co-occurs with other chronic painful conditions such as interstitial cystitis and irritable bowel syndrome and others. Little has been known about mechanisms underlying these chronic pelvic pains. This paper reviews 37 years of research in my laboratory at Florida State University on such mechanisms. Our research, mostly on rats, has contributed to the following findings: (1) Female reproductive organs are innervated in a topographic fashion by afferents in the pelvic (vagina/cervix) and hypogastric (cervix/uterine horn) nerves. (2) The input contributes to uterine and vaginal perceptions (nociception) that are modified by reproductive status. (3) Throughout the CNS, neurons responsive to stimulation of the reproductive tract also respond to stimulation of skin and other internal organs, in a manner modifiable by reproductive status and peripheral pathophysiology. (4) This dynamic physiological convergence may reflect extensive anatomical divergence of and interconnections between pathways entering the CNS via gateways through the spinal cord, dorsal column nuclei, and solitary nucleus. (5) The convergence also indicates the existence of extensive cross-system, viscero-visceral interactions within the CNS, that, while organized for coherent bodily functioning, serves as a substrate by which pathophysiology in one organ can influence physiology and responses to pathophysiology in other organs. (6) Some cross-system effects observed so far include: (a) Bladder inflammation reduces the rate of uterine contractions and the effects of drugs on the uterus. (b) Colon inflammation produces signs of inflammation in the otherwise healthy bladder and uterus. (c) A surgical model of endometriosis produces vaginal hyperalgesia, exacerbates pain behaviors induced by a ureteral stone, and reduces volume voiding thresholds if the bladder. These cross-system effects, which likely involve CNS mechanisms, likely also underlie co-occurrence of painful clinical conditions. Research continues on details of these mechanisms and their relevance for clinical diagnosis and therapy. None of this work could have been done without collegial support of colleagues and technical staff at Florida State University.
In the 1950s, young faculty in Psychology and Physiology/Biology at the newly established Florida State University recognized common interests in the study of sensory systems. They spontaneously formed one of this country's earliest interdisciplinary research cohorts in the emerging field of &quot;psychobiology&quot;. In the 1960s, this group established a formal graduate program in Psychobiology, acquired resources for building a new laboratory and for supporting pre- and post-doctoral students, and began the expansion of faculty and research focuses that continues to this day. In 1991, FSU's Psychobiology Program was re-branded as a Program in Neuroscience that awards a doctoral degree. It now encompasses faculty and students from four academic departments in the Colleges of Arts and Sciences, Human Sciences, and Medicine. This paper traces some main developments in our 50-year history of these research and training efforts.
The medial preoptic area (MPOA), at the rostral end of the hypothalamus, is important for the regulation of male sexual behavior. Results showing that male sexual behavior is impaired following MPOA lesions and enhanced with MPOA stimulation support this conclusion. The neurotransmitter dopamine (DA) facilitates male sexual behavior in all studied species, including rodents and humans. Here, we review data indicating that the MPOA is one site where DA may act to regulate male sexual behavior. DA agonists microinjected into the MPOA facilitate sexual behavior, whereas DA antagonists impair copulation, genital reflexes, and sexual motivation. Moreover, microdialysis experiments showed increased release of DA in the MPOA as a result of precopulatory exposure to an estrous female and during copulation. DA may remove tonic inhibition in the MPOA, thereby enhancing sensorimotor integration, and also coordinate autonomic influences on genital reflexes. In addition to sensory stimulation, other factors influence the release of DA in the MPOA, including testosterone, nitric oxide, and glutamate. Here we summarize and interpret these data.
Neural and behavioral development arises from an integration of genetic and environmental influences, yet specifying the nature of this interaction remains a primary problem in neuroscience. Here, we review molecular and behavioral studies that focus on the role of singing-driven gene expression during neural and vocal development in the male zebra finch (Taeniopygia guttata), a songbird that learns a species-typical vocal pattern during juvenile development by imitating an adult male tutor. A primary aim of our lab has been to identify naturally-occurring environmental influences that shape the propensity to sing. This ethological approach underlies our theoretical perspective, which is to integrate the significance of singing-driven gene expression into a broader ecological context.
Anecdotal and empirical evidence suggests that females' preferences for sweet foods are affected by hormonal fluctuations across the reproductive cycle. In rats, the preference for sweet foods may involve estrogen-mediated changes in response to the taste of sweets. Our recent work showed that ovariectomized female rats lick less to dilute sucrose solutions when given estrogen than when given the oil vehicle. These findings suggest that estrogen decreases the preference for less concentrated sucrose solutions; however, an alternative explanation is that estrogen interferes with the ability to detect dilute sucrose solutions. To distinguish between these possibilities, we conditioned a taste aversion to 0.2 M sucrose in ovariectomized rats by pairing it with injection of LiCl and then examined the generalization of that taste aversion to 0.075 and 0.025 M sucrose solutions during estrogen or oil treatment. Oil-treated rats generalized the LiCl-induced aversion conditioned to 0.2 M sucrose to both 0.075 and 0.025 M sucrose. Estrogen-treated rats generalized the LiCl-induced taste aversion to 0.075 M sucrose but not to 0.025 M sucrose. Moreover, two weeks later, when estrogen had cleared the system, both groups generalized the aversion to both 0.075 and 0.025 M sucrose. These results show that estrogen affects the ability to discriminate dilute sucrose from water and suggest that estrogen may have short-term effects on the detection threshold for sucrose taste in rats.
The genetically programmed form of neuronal death known as apoptosis plays a role in many neurodegenerative diseases including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and Huntington's disease. Apoptosis is also responsible for neuronal death after traumatic brain and spinal cord injury, stroke, and seizures. The cognitive and behavioral consequences of all of these disorders can be devastating. Unfortunately the mechanisms that regulate neuronal apoptosis are complex. However, it is this very complexity that provides us with a wide array of potential targets for the development of anti-apoptotic strategies. Thus, our lab is currently exploring the molecular and cellular mechanisms responsible for neuronal apoptosis, with a particular focus on the role of the metals copper, zinc, and iron. Each of these metals is essential for normal central nervous system (CNS) development and function. However, imbalances, either excess or deficiency, can result in neuronal apoptosis. In this review, we show the relationship between these metals in neurodegenerative disorders and CNS injury, and the mechanisms that govern neuronal survival and apoptosis.
Prairie (Microtus ochrogaster) and meadow voles (M. pennsylvanicus) are closely related species that differ in life strategy and social behaviors, and thus provide an excellent comparative model for the study of neuronal and hormonal mechanisms underlying behavior. In the present study using the elevated plus maze (EPM) test, we found that male prairie voles entered the open arms of the EPM more and remained there longer, and showed a higher level of overall locomotor activity than did male meadow voles. In addition, two weeks of social isolation induced an increase in open arm entries in prairie, but not meadow, voles. Prairie voles also had a higher level of circulating corticosterone compared to meadow voles, and the EPM test increased circulating corticosterone in prairie voles. Finally, social isolation coupled with the EPM test influenced Fos-immunoreactive expression in several brain areas, including the medial preoptic area, ventromedial hypothalamus, amygdala, and prefrontal cortex differently between the two species. Together, these data indicate a neural circuit involved in mediating anxiety-associated behavior in voles, and that the functioning of this circuit is influenced by social environment differently between social and non-social species.

Estrogen has marked effects on hippocampal synaptic plasticity. We demonstrate that male and female 3-month-old beta estrogen receptor knockout (BERKO) mice show profound memory impairment in a hippocampus-mediated fear-conditioning paradigm. Subsequently, hippocampal slices prepared from behaviorally naive female BERKO mice were examined electrophysiologically. These were found to have robust synaptic deficits, compared to slices from age-matched wild type controls, both in terms of their input-output curves and their expression of long-term-potentiation in area CA1. This report provides the first concrete evidence of significant hippocampal synaptic plasticity and memory deficits in the BERKO mouse.
We analysed the interaction between the dorsal striatum (motor coordination and planning) and the hippocampus (sensory information processing and integration) during performance of goal-directed tasks. The performance of rats that had been injected with different doses of the D(2)-antagonist Sulpiride into the dorsal striatum was tested in an egocentric 4-arm maze task that tests striatal functions. Furthermore, hippocampal EEGs were recorded before, during and after inactivation of the dorsal striatum via injections of Sulpiride of rats that were performing a continuous alternation task. Injection of 5 microl of 100 mM Sulpiride increased the number of errors committed in the egocentric 4-arm maze (p &lt; 0.01), indicating that the dorsal striatum is involved in motor control and motor memory recall in such a task. In the recording study, the same dose of Sulpiride injected into the dorsal striatum had powerful effects on the hippocampal EEG. The main activity in the theta range (5-10 Hz) was shifted from higher frequencies in the 8-10 Hz range to lower frequencies in the 5-7 Hz range (p &lt; 0.005). The impairment in the behavioural egocentric task after Sulpiride injection, and the effects of Sulpiride on hippocampal theta shows that there is a functional interaction between the dorsal striatum and the hippocampus. While the dorsal striatum coordinates the execution of complex motor programs, the hippocampus integrates spatial and other sensory information required for the planning and execution of goal-directed movements.
Consistent with configural/conjunctive theories of the hippocampus, we report that rats trained on the non-linear transverse patterning discrimination problem (A+ versus B-, B+ versus C-, and C+ versus A) displayed retrograde amnesia when the hippocampus was later damaged. They also failed to relearn the solution to this problem. Damage to the hippocampus following training also produced retrograde amnesia in rats trained on a set of elemental discrimination problems (A+ versus B-, C+ versus D-, and E+ versus F-) that could be solved based on the associative strengths of the individual choice cues. However, in contrast to transverse patterning, rats easily relearned and retained these elemental problems and learned a new set of elemental problems after the damage. These results support two theoretical conclusions: (a) elemental discriminations can be learned by both a system that depends on the hippocampus and a system that does not require the hippocampus, and (b) in the intact animal these two systems competitively interact with the hippocampal-dependent system inhibiting memory formation by the extra-hippocampal system.
The dihydropyridine receptor (DHPR) alpha(1S) II-III loop has been shown to be critical for excitation-contraction (EC) coupling in skeletal muscle, but the importance of other cytoplasmic regions, especially the N-terminus (residues 1-51), remains unclear. In this study, we found that deletion of alpha(1S) residues 2-37 (weakly conserved with N-termini of other L-type Ca(2+) channels) had little effect on the ability of alpha(1S) to serve as a Ca(2+) channel or voltage sensor for EC coupling. Strikingly, deletion of 10 additional residues, which are conserved in L-type channels, resulted in ablation of DHPR function. Specifically, confocal microscopy and measurement of charge movement showed that removal of residues 2-47 resulted in a failure of sarcolemmal insertion. Our results indicate that the weakly conserved, distal alpha(1S) N-terminus is not critical for EC coupling or function as a Ca(2+) channel. However, integrity of the proximal alpha(1S) N-terminus is necessary for sarcolemmal expression of the DHPR.
Tremendous amount of primary sequence information has been made available from the genome sequencing projects, although a complete annotation and identification of all genes is still far from being complete. Here, we present the identification of two new human genes from the pharmacologically important family of transporter proteins, solute carriers family 6 (SLC6). These were named SLC6A17 and SLC6A18 by HUGO. The human repertoire of SLC6 proteins now consists of 19 functional members and four pseudogenes. We also identified the corresponding orthologues and additional genes from mouse and rat genomes. Detailed phylogenetic analysis of the entire family of SLC6 proteins in mammals shows that this family can be divided into four subgroups. We used Hidden Markov Models for these subgroups and identified in total 430 unique SLC6 proteins from 10 animal, one plant, two fungi, and 196 bacterial genomes. It is evident that SLC6 proteins are present in both animals and bacteria, and that three of the four subfamilies of mammalian SLC6 proteins are present in Caenorhabditis elegans, showing that these subfamilies are evolutionary very ancient. Moreover, we performed tissue localization studies on the entire family of SLC6 proteins on a panel of 15 rat tissues and further, the expression of three of the new genes was studied using quantitative real-time PCR showing expression in multiple central and peripheral tissues. This paper presents an overall overview of the gene repertoire of the SLC6 gene family and its expression profile in rats.
The rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM), where sympathetic premotor neurons are located, is a central site via which angiotensin II (Ang II) elicits its pressor effect. We tested the hypothesis that NADPH oxidase-derived superoxide anion (O2*-) in the RVLM mediates Ang II-induced pressor response via activation of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling pathways. Bilateral microinjection of Ang II into the RVLM resulted in an angiotensin subtype 1 (AT1) receptor-dependent phosphorylation of p38 MAPK and extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase (ERK)1/2, but not stress-activated protein kinase/Jun N-terminal kinase (SAPK/JNK), in the ventrolateral medulla. The Ang II-induced p38 MAPK or ERK1/2 phosphorylation was attenuated by application into the RVLM of a NADPH oxidase inhibitor, diphenyleneiodonium chloride (DPI), an antisense oligonucleotide that targets against p22phox or p47phox subunit of NADPH oxidase mRNA, or the superoxide dismutase mimetic tempol. DPI or antisense p22phox or p47phox oligonucleotide treatment also attenuated the AT1 receptor-dependent increase in O2*- production in the ventrolateral medulla elicited by Ang II at the RVLM. Functionally, Ang II-elicited pressor response in the RVLM was attenuated by DPI, tempol, or a p38 MAPK inhibitor, SB203580. The AT1 receptor-mediated enhancement of the frequency of glutamate-sensitive spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents induced by Ang II in RVLM neurons was also abolished by SB203580. These results suggest that NADPH oxidase-derived O2*- underlies the activation of p38 MAPK or ERK1/2 by Ang II in the ventrolateral medulla. Furthermore, the p38 MAPK signaling pathway may mediate Ang II-induced pressor response via enhancement of presynaptic release of glutamate to RVLM neurons.
Medications targeting the somatostatin type 2 receptor (SSTR2) have been employed for pancreatic inflammations and cancers, possibly via the regulation of the transcription factor nuclear factor kappaB (NFkappaB). Here we demonstrate that in tumoral pancreatic acinar AR42J cells, activation of SSTR2 leads to stimulation of the inhibitor kappaB kinase (IKK)/NFkappaB signaling cascade via pertussis toxin-insensitive G proteins in a time- and dose-dependent manner. The inability of G(q/11) and G(12/13) proteins to activate IKK/NFkappaB by SSTR2 in transfected human embryonic kidney 293 cells and the lack of Galpha(16) in AR42J cells suggested a possible role of Galpha(14) in mediating SSTR2-induced responses. This regulatory role of Galpha(14) was further confirmed by the activation of IKK and NFkappaB in human embryonic kidney 293 cells expressing SSTR2 and Galpha(14) upon induction. The stimulatory effect of Gbeta(1)gamma(2) and the abrogation by overexpressing transducin confirmed the participation of Gbetagamma in SSTR2-mediated IKK/NFkappaB activation. By the application of specific inhibitors and dominant negative mutants, phospholipase Cbeta, protein kinase C, and calmodulin-dependent kinase II were shown to be involved in SSTR2-induced responses. Inhibition of c-Src and numerous intermediates, including Ras, Raf-1 kinase, MEK1/2, along with the extracellular signal-regulated kinase cascade attenuated somatostatin-mediated IKK/NFkappaB activation. Although c-Jun N-terminal kinase and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) were also stimulated by SSTR2, suppression of these two MAPKs was ineffective in altering the somatostatin-mediated responses. Similar results were also obtained using AR42J cells. These data suggest that activation of the IKK/NFkappaB signaling cascade by SSTR2 requires a complicated network consisting of Galpha(14) and multiple intermediates.
Rac and its downstream effectors p21-activated kinase (PAK) family kinases regulate actin dynamics within growth cones to control neurite outgrowth during development. The activity of Rac is stimulated by guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs) that promote GDP release and GTP binding. ALS2/Alsin is a recently described GEF that contains a central domain that is predicted to regulate the activities of Rac and/or Rho and Cdc42 activities. Mutations in ALS2 cause some recessive familial forms of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) but the function of ALS2 is poorly understood. Here we demonstrate that ALS2 is present within growth cones of neurons, in which it co-localizes with Rac. Furthermore, ALS2 stimulates Rac but not Rho or Cdc42 activities, and this induces a corresponding increase in PAK1 activity. Finally, we demonstrate that ALS2 promotes neurite outgrowth. Defects in these functions may therefore contribute to motor neuron demise in ALS.
Drugs of abuse are known to cause persistent modification of neural circuits, leading to addictive behaviours. Changes in synaptic plasticity in dopamine neurons of the ventral tegmental area (VTA) may contribute to circuit modification induced by many drugs of abuse, including cocaine. Here we report that, following repeated exposure to cocaine in vivo, excitatory synapses to rat VTA dopamine neurons become highly susceptible to the induction of long-term potentiation (LTP) by correlated pre- and postsynaptic activity. This facilitated LTP induction is caused by cocaine-induced reduction of GABA(A) (gamma-aminobutyric acid) receptor-mediated inhibition of these dopamine neurons. In midbrain slices from rats treated with saline or a single dose of cocaine, LTP could not be induced in VTA dopamine neurons unless GABA-mediated inhibition was reduced by bicuculline or picrotoxin. However, LTP became readily inducible in slices from rats treated repeatedly with cocaine; this LTP induction was prevented by enhancing GABA-mediated inhibition using diazepam. Furthermore, repeated cocaine exposure reduced the amplitude of GABA-mediated synaptic currents and increased the probability of spike initiation in VTA dopamine neurons. This cocaine-induced enhancement of synaptic plasticity in the VTA may be important for the formation of drug-associated memory.

The understanding of the mechanisms of memory retrieval and its deficits, and the detection of memory underlying neuronal plasticity, is greatly impeded by a lack of precise knowledge of the brain circuitry that underlies the functions of memory. The specific roles of anatomically distinct hippocampal subdivisions in recent and long-term memory retention and recall are essentially unknown. To address these questions, we mapped the expression of Arc/Arg 3.1 mRNA, a neuronal activity marker, in memory retention at multiple rostrocaudal levels of the dentate gyrus, CA3, CA1, subiculum, and lateral and medial entorhinal cortices after a platform search in a water-maze spatial task at 24 h and 1 month compared with swim and naive controls. We found that the entorhinohippocampal neuronal activity underlying the recall of recent and remote spatial memory has an anatomically distributed and time-dependent organization throughout both the dorsal and ventral hippocampus that is subdivision specific. We found a dissociation in the activity of the entorhinal cortex, CA3, and CA1 over a period of memory consolidation. Although CA3, the dorsal hippocampus, and the entorhinal cortex demonstrated the most persistent learning-specific signal during both recent and long-term memory recall, CA1 and the ventral hippocampus displayed the most dramatic signal decline. We determined the coordinates of activity clusters in the hippocampal subdivisions during the platform search and their dynamics over time. Our mapping data suggest that although the level of corticohippocampal interaction is similar during the retrieval of recent and remote spatial memories, the mnemonic function of the hippocampus may have changed, and the activity underlying remote spatial memory could be anatomically segregated within hippocampal subdivisions in small segments.



In a new family with X-linked congenital autophagic vacuolar myopathy (AVM), seven affected boys presented with congenital hypotonia, dyspnea, and dysphagia with delayed motor milestones. Muscle pathology revealed autophagic vacuoles with sarcolemmal features, multilayered basal lamina with marked sarcolemmal deposition of C5-9 membrane attack complex and calcium, histologically indistinguishable from childhood-onset X-linked myopathy with excessive autophagy (XMEA). Haplotype analysis suggests that this new AVM and XMEA may be allelic despite different clinical presentations.
A woman produced spontaneous confabulations after rupture of an anterior communicating artery aneurysm. She confused currently irrelevant with currently relevant information in implicit memory; confabulations about people concerned only new acquaintances; false reality could be induced by an intensive 5-minute discussion; and in a recognition task, she confused false repetitions in another modality with real item repetitions. The findings support the theory that the defect causing spontaneous confabulation precedes conscious memory processing.

For more than a century, the process of stabilization has been a central issue in the research of learning and memory. Namely, after a skill or memory is acquired, it must be consolidated before it becomes resistant to disruption by subsequent learning. Although it is clear that there are many cases in which learning can be disrupted, it is unclear when learning something new disrupts what has already been learned. Herein, we provide two answers to this question with the demonstration that perceptual learning of a visual stimulus disrupts or interferes with the consolidation of a previously learned visual stimulus. In this study, we trained subjects on two different hyperacuity tasks and determined whether learning of the second task disrupted that of the first. We first show that disruption of learning occurs between visual stimuli presented at the same orientation in the same retinotopic location but not for the same stimuli presented at retinotopically disparate locations or different orientations at the same location. Second, we show that disruption from stimuli in the same retinotopic location is ameliorated if the subjects wait for 1 h before training on the second task. These results indicate that disruption, at least in visual learning, is specific to features of the tasks and that a temporal delay of 1 h can stabilize visual learning. This research shows that visual learning is susceptible to disruption and elucidates the processes by which the brain can consolidate learning and thus protect what is learned from being overwritten.

Previously, we identified that a majority of patients with anorexia nervosa (AN) and bulimia nervosa (BN) as well as some control subjects display autoantibodies (autoAbs) reacting with alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone (alpha-MSH) or adrenocorticotropic hormone, melanocortin peptides involved in appetite control and the stress response. In this work, we studied the relevance of such autoAbs to AN and BN. In addition to previously identified neuropeptide autoAbs, the current study revealed the presence of autoAbs reacting with oxytocin (OT) or vasopressin (VP) in both patients and controls. Analysis of serum levels of identified autoAbs showed an increase of IgM autoAbs against alpha-MSH, OT, and VP as well as of IgG autoAbs against VP in AN patients when compared with BN patients and controls. Further, we investigated whether levels of these autoAbs correlated with psychological traits characteristic for eating disorders. We found significantly altered correlations between alpha-MSH autoAb levels and the total Eating Disorder Inventory-2 score, as well as most of its subscale dimensions in AN and BN patients vs. controls. Remarkably, these correlations were opposite in AN vs. BN patients. In contrast, levels of autoAbs reacting with adrenocorticotropic hormone, OT, or VP had only few altered correlations with the Eating Disorder Inventory-2 subscale dimensions in AN and BN patients. Thus, our data reveal that core psychobehavioral abnormalities characteristic for eating disorders correlate with the levels of autoAbs against alpha-MSH, suggesting that AN and BN may be associated with autoAb-mediated dysfunctions of primarily the melanocortin system.
The mammalian hair cycle involves periodic regeneration of a tiny organ, the hair follicle, through a stem-cell-mediated process. The Hairless (Hr) gene encodes a nuclear receptor corepressor (HR) that is essential for hair follicle regeneration, but its role in this process is unknown. Here, we demonstrate that transgenic expression of HR in progenitor keratinocytes rescues follicle regeneration in Hr(-/-) mice. We show that expression of Wise, a modulator of Wnt signaling, is repressed by HR in these cells, coincident with the timing of follicle regeneration. This work links HR and Wnt function, providing a model in which HR regulates the precise timing of Wnt signaling required for hair follicle regeneration.
Vision often requires attending to, and integrating information from, distant parts of the visual field. However, the neural basis for such long-range integration is not clearly understood. Here, we demonstrate a specific neural signature of attentional integration between stimuli in different parts of the visual field. Using functional MRI, we found that a task requiring the integration of information between two attended but spatially separated stimuli actively modulated the degree of functional integration (in terms of effective connectivity) between their retinotopic representations in visual cortical areas V1, V2, and V4. Spatial attention enhanced long-distance coupling between distinct neuronal populations that represented the attended visual stimuli, even at the earliest stages of cortical processing. In contrast, unattended stimulus representations were decoupled both from attended representations and particularly strongly from each other. Furthermore, enhanced functional integration between cortical representations was associated with enhanced behavioral performance. Attention may thus serve to &quot;bind&quot; together cortical loci at multiple levels of the visual hierarchy that are commonly involved in processing attended stimuli, promoting integration between otherwise functionally isolated cortical loci.
Adult mammals cycle between periods of sleep and wakefulness. Recent assessments of these cycles in humans and other mammals indicate that sleep bout durations exhibit an exponential distribution, whereas wake bout durations exhibit a power-law distribution. Moreover, it was found that wake bout distributions, but not sleep bout distributions, exhibit scale invariance across mammals of different body sizes. Here we test the generalizability of these findings by examining the distributions of sleep and wake bout durations in infant rats between 2 and 21 days of age. In agreement with Lo et al., we find that sleep bout durations exhibit exponential distributions at all ages examined. In contrast, however, wake bout durations also exhibit exponential distributions at the younger ages, with a clear power-law distribution only emerging at the older ages. Further analyses failed to find substantial evidence either of short- or long-term correlations in the data, thus suggesting that the durations of current sleep and wake bouts evolve through time without memory of the durations of preceding bouts. These findings further support the notion that bouts of sleep and wakefulness are regulated independently. Moreover, in light of recent evidence that developmental changes in sleep and wake bouts can be attributed in part to increasing forebrain influences, these findings suggest the possibility of identifying specific neural circuits that modulate the changing complexity of sleep and wake dynamics during development.
The aberrant expression of matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) is implicated in the invasion and angiogenesis process of brain tumor. This study has investigated the effects of curcumin on MMP-9 expression in human astroglioma cell lines. Curcumin significantly inhibited the MMP-9 enzymatic activity and protein expression that was induced by PMA. The inhibitory effect of curcumin on MMP-9 expression correlates with the decreased MMP-9 mRNA level and the suppression of MMP-9 promoter activity. The curcumin-mediated inhibition of MMP-9 gene expression appears to occur via NF-kappaB and AP-1 because their DNA binding activities were suppressed by curcumin. Furthermore, curcumin strongly repressed the PMA-induced phosphorylation of ERK, JNK, and p38 MAP kinase, which were dependent on the PKC pathway. Therefore, the inhibition of MMP-9 expression by curcumin might have therapeutic potential for controlling the growth and invasiveness of brain tumor.
The mechanism of neurodegeneration caused by beta-amyloid in Alzheimer disease is controversial. Neuronal toxicity is exerted mostly by various species of soluble beta-amyloid oligomers that differ in their N- and C-terminal domains. However, abundant accumulation of beta-amyloid also occurs in the brains of cognitively normal elderly people, in the absence of obvious neuronal dysfunction. We postulated that neuronal toxicity depends on the molecular composition, rather than the amount, of the soluble beta-amyloid oligomers. Here we show that soluble beta-amyloid aggregates that accumulate in Alzheimer disease are different from those of normal aging in regard to the composition as well as the aggregation and toxicity properties.
3-Hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (statins) have been reported to reduce the risk of Alzheimer disease. We have shown previously that statins inhibit a beta-amyloid (Abeta)-mediated inflammatory response through mechanisms independent of cholesterol reduction. Specifically, statins exert anti-inflammatory actions through their ability to prevent the isoprenylation of members of the Rho family of small G-proteins, resulting in the functional inactivation of these G-proteins. We report that statin treatment of microglia results in perturbation of the cytoskeleton and morphological changes due to alteration in Rho family function. Statins also block Abeta-stimulated phagocytosis through inhibition of Rac action. Paradoxically, the statin-mediated inactivation of G-protein function was associated with increased GTP loading of Rac and RhoA, and this effect was observed in myeloid lineage cells and other cell types. Statin treatment disrupted the interaction of Rac with its negative regulator the Rho guanine nucleotide dissociation inhibitor (RhoGDI), an interaction that is dependent on protein isoprenylation. We propose that lack of negative regulation accounts for the increased GTP loading. Isoprenylation of Rac is also required for efficient interaction with the plasma membrane, and we report that statin treatment dramatically reduces the capacity of Rac to interact with membranes. These results suggest a mechanism by which statins inhibit the actions of Rho GTPases and attenuate Abeta-stimulated inflammation.
The artificial sweetener cyclamate tastes sweet to humans, but not to mice. When expressed in vitro, the human sweet receptor (a heterodimer of two taste receptor subunits: hT1R2 + hT1R3) responds to cyclamate, but the mouse receptor (mT1R2 + mT1R3) does not. Using mixed-species pairings of human and mouse sweet receptor subunits, we determined that responsiveness to cyclamate requires the human form of T1R3. Using chimeras, we determined that it is the transmembrane domain of hT1R3 that is required for the sweet receptor to respond to cyclamate. Using directed mutagenesis, we identified several amino acid residues within the transmembrane domain of T1R3 that determine differential responsiveness to cyclamate of the human versus mouse sweet receptors. Alanine-scanning mutagenesis of residues predicted to line a transmembrane domain binding pocket in hT1R3 identified six residues specifically involved in responsiveness to cyclamate. Using molecular modeling, we docked cyclamate within the transmembrane domain of T1R3. Our model predicts substantial overlap in the hT1R3 binding pockets for the agonist cyclamate and the inverse agonist lactisole. The transmembrane domain of T1R3 is likely to play a critical role in the interconversion of the sweet receptor from the ground state to the active state.
To investigate the role of astrocytes in regulating synaptic transmission, we generated inducible transgenic mice that express a dominant-negative SNARE domain selectively in astrocytes to block the release of transmitters from these glial cells. By releasing adenosine triphosphate, which accumulates as adenosine, astrocytes tonically suppressed synaptic transmission, thereby enhancing the dynamic range for long-term potentiation and mediated activity-dependent, heterosynaptic depression. These results indicate that astrocytes are intricately linked in the regulation of synaptic strength and plasticity and provide a pathway for synaptic cross-talk.
Inhibitory molecules associated with myelin and the glial scar limit axon regeneration in the adult central nervous system (CNS), but the underlying signaling mechanisms of regeneration inhibition are not fully understood. Here, we show that suppressing the kinase function of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) blocks the activities of both myelin inhibitors and chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans in inhibiting neurite outgrowth. In addition, regeneration inhibitors trigger the phosphorylation of EGFR in a calcium-dependent manner. Local administration of EGFR inhibitors promotes significant regeneration of injured optic nerve fibers, pointing to a promising therapeutic avenue for enhancing axon regeneration after CNS injury.

Perinatal brain injury is associated with the release of amino acids, principally glutamate and GABA, resulting in massive increases in intracellular calcium and eventual cell death. We have previously demonstrated that independent administration of kainic acid (KA), an AMPA/kainate receptor agonist, or muscimol, a GABA(A) receptor agonist, to newborn rats results in hippocampal damage [Hilton, G.D., Ndubuizu, A., and McCarthy, M.M., 2004. Neuroprotective effects of estradiol in newborn female rat hippocampus. Dev. Brain Res. 150, 191-198; Hilton, G. D., Nunez, J.L. and McCarthy, M.M., 2003. Sex differences in response to kainic acid and estradiol in the hippocampus of newborn rats. Neuroscience. 116, 383-391; Nunez, J.L. and McCarthy, M.M., 2003. Estradiol exacerbates hippocampal damage in a model of preterm infant brain injury. Endocrinology. 144, 2350-2359; Nunez, J.L., Alt, J.J. and McCarthy, M.M., 2003. A new model for prenatal brain damage. I. GABA(A) receptor activation induces cell death in developing rat hippocampus. Exp. Neurol. 181, 258-269]. We now report that KA or muscimol alone administered to immature hippocampal neurons in culture induces significant cell death as evidenced by TUNEL assay. Surprisingly, simultaneous administration of equimolar quantities of these two agonists blocks the effect of either one alone. Moreover, treatment of newborn pups results in less damage compared to either muscimol or KA alone. We further observed that immunoreactivity for the calcium-binding protein, calbindin D(28K), is increased in the brains of pups simultaneously administered KA and muscimol as compared to either alone.
The effects of a single course of antenatal betamethasone on S100B protein concentration were investigated in Fisher 344 rats. On day 20 of gestation, pregnant rats were injected twice 8 h apart with either (1) 170 microg kg(-1) body weight betamethasone (&quot;clinically-equivalent dose&quot;, equivalent to 12 mg twice, 24 h apart in humans), (2) half of this dose (equivalent to 6 mg) or (3) vehicle. We report reference values for S100B protein in the serum and different brain regions in both genders at 1, 2, and 21 days after birth. Interestingly, S100B concentration showed a time-dependent and brain region-specific pattern of expression. At P1, S100B was higher in the serum of males compared to females. In addition, we show that both doses of betamethasone decreased S100B concentration in the serum of males at P1, whereas in the hippocampus, it was reduced by the clinically-equivalent dose only. This suggests that lowering the dose of antenatal betamethasone may be less detrimental for brain maturation and therefore we reiterate the need for clinical trials with a low dose regimen.
A new series of H3 receptor antagonists was discovered with nanomolar and subnanomolar affinities at human and rat H3 receptors. Starting from an earlier, more structurally limited series of benzofurans, the present series of compounds demonstrated increased structural variety and flexibility with greater in vitro potency. One compound in particular, [2-[2-(2-(R)-methylpyrrolidin-1-yl)ethyl]benzofuran-5-yl](5-nitropyridin-2-yl)amine (7h), gave the best binding potency (human K(i) of 0.05 nM, rat K(i) of 0.11 nM), which represented a 9-fold (in human) and an 11-fold (in rat) improvement over ABT-239 (compound 5), a compound previously reported to have excellent in vitro potency and in vivo efficacy. The synthesis, SAR of the H3 binding affinities, in vitro assay for phospholipidosis, and pharmacokinetic properties of the new compounds are described.
The molecular mechanisms specifying the dendritic morphology of different neuronal subtypes are poorly understood. Here we demonstrate that the bHLH transcription factor Neurogenin2 (Ngn2) is both necessary and sufficient for specifying the dendritic morphology of pyramidal neurons in vivo by specifying the polarity of its leading process during the initiation of radial migration. The ability of Ngn2 to promote a polarized leading process outgrowth requires the phosphorylation of a single tyrosine residue at position 241, an event that is neither involved in Ngn2 direct transactivation properties nor its proneural function. Interestingly, the migration defect observed in the Ngn2 knockout mouse and in progenitors expressing the Ngn2(Y241F) mutation can be rescued by inhibiting the activity of the small-GTPase RhoA in cortical progenitors. Our results demonstrate that Ngn2 coordinates the acquisition of the radial migration properties and the unipolar dendritic morphology characterizing pyramidal neurons through molecular mechanisms distinct from those mediating its proneural activity.
Drugs of abuse share the ability to enhance dopaminergic neurotransmission in the dorsal and ventral striatum. The action of dopamine is modulated by additional neurotransmitters, including glutamate, serotonin and adenosine. All these neurotransmitters regulate the phosphorylation state of Dopamine- and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein, Mr 32 kDa (DARPP-32). Phosphorylation at Thr(34) by protein kinase A converts DARPP-32 into a potent inhibitor of the multifunctional serine/threonine protein phosphatase, PP-1. Phosphorylation at Thr(75) by Cdk5 converts DARPP-32 into an inhibitor of protein kinase A. The state of phosphorylation of DARPP-32 at Thr(34) also depends on the phosphorylation state of Ser(97) and Ser(130), which are phosphorylated by CK2 and CK1, respectively. By virtue of regulation of these 4 phosphorylation sites, and through its ability to modulate the activity of PP-1 and protein kinase A, DARPP-32 plays a key role in integrating a variety of biochemical, electrophysiological, and behavioral responses controlled by dopamine and other neurotransmitters. Importantly, there is now a large body of evidence that supports a key role for DARPP-32-dependent signaling in mediating the actions of multiple drugs of abuse including cocaine, amphetamine, nicotine, caffeine, LSD, PCP, ethanol and morphine.
AAV gene therapy vectors have significant clinical promise, but serum neutralization poses a challenge that must be overcome. We have examined the potential of conjugating the AAV surface with activated polyethylene glycol chains to protect the vector from neutralizing antibodies. Two key parameters were investigated: the polymer chain size and the PEG:lysine conjugation ratio. Transduction data revealed that the vector is fully infectious until a critical PEG conjugation reaction ratio was exceeded, and this critical level was found to vary with polymer chain size. At this key conjugation ratio, however, particles were moderately protected from serum neutralization, 2.3-fold over unmodified vector, demonstrating that there is a small window of PEGylation for which particles are still fully infective and benefit from antibody protection. TEM results and structural analysis indicate that the drop of infectivity as the PEG concentration is increased beyond the critical conjugation ratio may be due to a combination of steric interference with viral regions necessary for infection as well as reaction at important lysine residues. However, this first study analyzing the potential of PEG to protect AAV from serum neutralization shows that the approach has promise, which can be further enhanced if the locations of PEG attachment can be more finely controlled.
A brief ischemic injury to the gerbil forebrain that caused selective damage in the CA1 region of the hippocampus also enhanced the production of new cells in the hippocampal neurogenic area. When evaluated 1 week after bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) injection, approximately ten times more labeled cells were detected in the hippocampal dentate gyrus in ischemic animals than controls, indicating a stimulation of mitotic activity. To assess the temporal course of the survival and fate of these newborn cells, we monitored BrdU labeling and cell marker expression up to 60 days after ischemia (DAI). Loss of BrdU-positive cells was observed from both control and ischemic animals, but at 30 DAI and afterward, the ischemic group maintained more than 3 times as many BrdU-positive cells as the control group. In addition, ischemic injury also fostered the neuronal differentiation of these cells beyond the capacity observed in control animals and facilitated the migration of developing neurons to a neuronal cellular layer. The establishment of a temporal correlation between differentiation and migration provides evidence of the functional maturation of these cells. Surprisingly, we found that ischemic injury induced activation of caspase-3, not only in the CA1 region as expected, but also in the dentate subgranular zone (SGZ). Active caspase-3 immunoreactivity in the subgranular layer was co-localized with an early neuronal marker, suggesting that caspase-mediated apoptosis could mediate the loss of neurogenic cells in the SGZ. Inhibiting caspase-3 in the context of ischemia-induced neurogenesis might provide an opportunity for functional repair and a therapeutic outcome in the wake of ischemic injury.
Chronic administration of nicotine induces adaptations in central nervous system function to counteract nicotine's acute effects. When nicotine administration ceases, these adaptations remain unopposed and may lead to drug withdrawal. The present studies were conducted to assess the effects of chronic nicotine administration on dopamine D1- and D2-like receptor activity in the posterior hypothalamus/anterior ventral tegmental area (VTA). An intracranial self-stimulation discrete trial procedure that provides current intensity thresholds was used to provide a measure of brain reward function in rats. Previous studies showed that systemic administration of dopamine D1- or D2-like receptor antagonists induced elevations in brain reward thresholds in drug-free rats, indicative of a decrease in brain reward function. We show here that injections of the D1-like receptor antagonist SCH 23390 (1-4 microg total bilateral dose) into the posterior hypothalamus/anterior VTA differentially elevated brain reward thresholds in rats chronically treated with nicotine (9 mg/kg/day, salt) versus saline-treated rats. The nicotine-treated rats were less sensitive to the threshold elevating effects of D1-like receptor antagonism. By contrast, the D2-like receptor antagonist eticlopride (1-4 microg total bilateral dose) injected into the posterior hypothalamus/anterior VTA significantly elevated brain reward thresholds in saline- and nicotine-treated rats. No differential effect of eticlopride on brain reward thresholds in saline- and nicotine-treated rats was observed. Decreased sensitivity to D1-like receptor antagonism in the posterior hypothalamus/anterior VTA may partly mediate the development of tolerance to the reinforcing effects of nicotine and the manifestation of negative affective signs associated with cessation of nicotine administration.
Recent findings in humans and animals suggest that sleep promotes synaptic plasticity, but the underlying mechanisms have not been identified. We have demonstrated recently an important role for sleep in ocular dominance (OD) plasticity, a classic form of in vivo cortical remodeling triggered by monocular deprivation (MD) during a critical period of development. The mechanisms responsible for the effects of sleep on OD plasticity are unknown but may depend on neuronal activity in the sleeping brain. We investigated the role of cortical activity in sleep-dependent plasticity by reversibly inactivating the sleeping visual cortex (V1) after a period of MD. Critical period cats were bilaterally implanted with cannulas in V1 and standard EEG/EMG electrodes for polysomnographic recording. After a period of MD, visual cortices were infused with the sodium channel blocker lidocaine in vehicle or vehicle only during sleep. A third group of cats served as sham controls and were infused with lidocaine outside of V1 (into the CSF). Both optical imaging of intrinsic cortical signals and microelectrode recordings showed that OD plasticity was significantly reduced in cats whose visual cortices were reversibly silenced during sleep. These findings demonstrate that the mechanisms governing this form of sleep-dependent plasticity require cortical activity. They provide an important insight into how sleep modifies synaptic circuitry by narrowing the range of possible candidate mechanisms to those that are activity dependent.
The cerebellum plays an essential role in pursuit tracking with the eye and with the hand. During smooth pursuit eye movements, both tracking position and velocity are signaled by Purkinje cells. Purkinje cell simple spike discharge is also modulated by direction and speed during linear manual tracking. This study evaluated how all three parameters, position, movement direction, and speed, are signaled in the simple spike discharge of Purkinje cells during circular manual tracking. Three rhesus monkeys intercepted and then tracked a target moving in a circle in both counterclockwise and clockwise directions across a range of constant target speeds. Two sets of analyses of the simple spike firing of 97 Purkinje cells examined the effects of position, movement direction, and speed. The first approach was the incremental improvement of regression models, initially modeling a pure position dependence, then incorporating movement direction, and finally incorporating speed dependence. The second was a model-independent approach, without any explicit assumptions about the character of the directional tuning or speed effects. Both analyses revealed the same three results: (1) Purkinje cell discharge is spatially tuned, to both the position and direction of movement, and (2) this spatial tuning is not altered by the speed, except (3) the speed scales the average firing and/or depth of modulation. The results suggest that the population of Purkinje cells forms a representation of the entire position-direction space of arm movements, and that the speed modulates the scale of that representation. This speed scaling provides insights into the cerebellar processing of movement-related timing.
Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) is a sensory neuropeptide important in inflammatory pain that conveys pain information centrally and dilates blood vessels peripherally. Previous studies indicate that activin A increases CGRP-immunoreactive (IR) sensory neurons in vitro, and following wound, activin A protein increases in the skin and more neurons have detectable CGRP expression in the innervating dorsal root ganglion (DRG). These data suggest some adult sensory neurons respond to activin A or other target-derived factors with increased neuropeptide expression. This study was undertaken to test whether activin contributes to inflammatory pain and increased CGRP and to learn which neurons retained plasticity. After adjuvant-induced inflammation, activin mRNA, but not NGF or glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor, increased in the skin. To examine which DRG neurons increased CGRP immunoreactivity, retrograde tracer-labeled cutaneous neurons were characterized after inflammation. The proportion and size of tracer-labeled DRG neurons with detectable CGRP increased after inflammation. One-third of CGRP-IR neurons that appear after inflammation also had isolectin B4 binding, suggesting that some mechanoreceptors became CGRP-IR. In contrast, the increased proportion of CGRP-IR neurons did not appear to come from RT97-IR neurons. To learn whether central projections were altered after inflammation, CGRP immunoreactivity in the protein kinase Cgamma-IR lamina IIi was quantified and found to increase. Injection of activin A protein alone caused robust tactile allodynia and increased CGRP in the DRG. Together, these data support the hypothesis that inflammation and skin changes involving activin A cause some sensory neurons to increase CGRP expression and pain responses.
Among the electrophysiological properties differentiating stratum oriens horizontal interneurons from pyramidal neurons of the CA1 hippocampal subfield are the more depolarized resting potential and the higher input resistance; additionally, these interneurons are also less sensitive to ischemic damage than pyramidal cells. A differential expression of pH-sensitive leakage potassium channels (TASK) could contribute to all of these differences. To test this hypothesis, we studied the expression and properties of TASK channels in the two cell types. Electrophysiological recordings from acute slices showed that barium- and bupivacaine-sensitive TASK currents were detectable in pyramidal cells but not in interneurons and that extracellular acidification caused a much stronger depolarization in pyramidal cells than in interneurons. This pyramidal cell depolarization was paralleled by an increase of the input resistance, suggesting the blockade of a background conductance. Single-cell reverse transcription-PCR experiments showed that the expression profile of TASK channels differ between the two cell types and suggested that these channels mediate an important share of the leakage current of pyramidal cells. We suggest that the different expression of TASK channels in these cell types contribute to their electrophysiological differences and may result in cell-specific sensitivity to extracellular acidification in conditions such as epilepsy and ischemia.
Regulation of AMPA receptor trafficking is important for many forms of neuronal plasticity. In this study, a protein cross-linking assay was used to evaluate the contribution of AMPA receptor trafficking to plasticity associated with behavioral sensitization, an animal model of drug addiction. Cross-linking was used to distinguish between cell surface and intracellular AMPA receptors in nucleus accumbens (NAc) tissue obtained from rats treated repeatedly with saline or cocaine. Surface/intracellular (S/I) ratios for glutamate receptor 1 (GluR1) and GluR2/3 subunits were increased 21 d after the last injection in cocaine-sensitized rats but not rats that failed to sensitize, and the magnitude of the S/I ratio for cocaine-sensitized rats was positively correlated with the magnitude of behavioral sensitization. At the 1 d withdrawal time, cocaine did not alter S/I ratios, and there was no correlation between S/I ratios and behavioral sensitization. The majority of surface-expressed GluR1 detected with this assay was associated with synapses, based on coimmunoprecipitation with postsynaptic density protein of 95 kDa. These findings suggest that behavioral sensitization to cocaine is associated with a slowly developing redistribution of AMPA receptors to the surface of NAc neurons. Motor execution of drug-seeking responses depends on activation of AMPA receptors on NAc neurons by glutamate afferents originating in cortical and limbic regions. We propose that drug-seeking responses are more effectively triggered in cocaine-sensitized rats because of increased cell surface expression of AMPA receptors.
Plexin signaling is required for stereotyped pruning of long axon collaterals in the vertebrate CNS; however, a cellular basis for plexins on stereotyped pruning has not been determined. Using quantitative electron microscopy and immunocytochemistry, we found that infrapyramidal mossy fiber axon collaterals form transient synaptic complexes with basal dendrites of CA3 pyramidal cells in the early postnatal mouse hippocampus. At later postnatal ages, these synaptic complexes stop maturing and are removed before stereotyped pruning by a mechanism that does not involve axon degeneration and glial cell engulfment. In knock-out mice that lack plexin-A3 signaling, the synaptic complexes continue to mature, and, as a result, the collaterals are not pruned. Thus, our results suggest that intact plexin-A3 signaling contributes to synaptic complex elimination, which is associated with stereotyped axon pruning.
Rat pups that are repeatedly handled and separated from their dam exhibit altered adult behavioral, endocrine, and autonomic responses to stress, but the extent to which early handling and/or maternal separation (H/S) alters the development of circuits that underlie these responses is unknown. The present study tested the hypothesis that early H/S alters the postnatal assembly of synapses within preautonomic emotional motor circuits. Circuit development was traced by synapse-dependent retrograde transneuronal transport of pseudorabies virus (PRV) from the stomach wall. Control and H/S rats were analyzed between postnatal day 6 (P6) and P10, a period of rapid synaptic assembly among preautonomic circuit components. Pups in H/S groups were removed from their dam daily for either 15 min or 3 h beginning on P1, and were injected with virus on P8 and perfused on P10. Quantitative analyses of primary and transsynaptic PRV immunolabeling confirmed an age-dependent assembly of hypothalamic, limbic, and cortical inputs to autonomic nuclei. Circuit assembly was significantly altered in H/S pups, in which fewer neurons in the central amygdala, the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, and visceral cortices were infected compared with age-matched controls. In contrast, H/S did not alter the assembly of paraventricular hypothalamic inputs to gastric autonomic neurons. H/S-related reductions in limbic and cortical transneuronal infection were similar in pups exposed daily to 15 min or 3 h maternal separation. These findings support the view that environmental events during early postnatal life can influence the formation of neural circuits that provide limbic and cortical control over autonomic emotional motor output.
We describe a computational model of the principal cell in the nucleus accumbens (NAcb), the medium spiny projection (MSP) neuron. The model neuron, constructed in NEURON, includes all of the known ionic currents in these cells and receives synaptic input from simulated spike trains via NMDA, AMPA, and GABAA receptors. After tuning the model by adjusting maximal current conductances in each compartment, the model cell closely matched whole-cell recordings from an adult rat NAcb slice preparation. Synaptic inputs in the range of 1000-1300 Hz are required to maintain an &quot;up&quot; state in the model. Cell firing in the model required concurrent depolarization of several dendritic branches, which responded independently to afferent input. Depolarization from action potentials traveled to the tips of the dendritic branches and increased Ca2+ influx through voltage-gated Ca2+ channels. As NMDA/AMPA current ratios were increased, the membrane showed an increase in hysteresis of &quot;up&quot; and &quot;down&quot; state dwell times, but intrinsic bistability was not observed. The number of oscillatory inputs required to entrain the model cell was determined to be approximately 20% of the &quot;up&quot; state inputs. Altering the NMDA/AMPA ratio had a profound effect on processing of afferent input, including the ability to entrain to oscillations in afferent input in the theta range (4-12 Hz). These results suggest that afferent information integration by the NAcb MSP cell may be compromised by pathology in which the NMDA current is altered or modulated, as has been proposed in both schizophrenia and addiction.


In rodent pineal glands, sympathetic innervation, which leads to norepinephrine release, is a key process in the circadian regulation of physiology and certain gene expressions. It has been shown that gene expression of the rate-limiting enzyme in the melatonin synthesis arylalkylamine N-acetyltransferase (Aa-Nat), circadian clock gene Period1, and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) phosphtase-1 (MKP-1), is controlled mainly by a norepinephrine-beta-adrenergic receptor-cAMP signaling cascade in the rat pineal gland. To further dissect the signaling cascades that regulate those gene expressions, we examined whether MAPKs are involved in cAMP-induced gene expression. Western blot and immunohistochemical analyses showed that one of the three MAPKs, c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), was expressed in the pineal, and was phosphorylated by cAMP analogue stimulation with a peak 20 min after start of the stimulation, in vitro. A specific JNK inhibitor SP600125 (Anthra[1,9-cd]pyrazol-6(2H)-one1,9-pyrazoloanthrone), but not its negative control (N1-Methyl-1,9-pyrazoloanthrone), significantly reduced cAMP-stimulated Aa-Nat, Period1, and MKP-1 mRNA levels. Although another MAPK, p38(MAPK), has also been shown to be activated by cAMP stimulation, a p38(MAPK) inhibitor, SB203580 (4-(4-Fluorophenyl)-2-(4-methylsulfinylphenyl)-5-(4-pyridyl)1H-imidazole, HCl), showed no effect on cAMP-induced Aa-Nat and Period1 mRNA levels; whereas SB203580, but not its negative analogue SB202474 (4-Ethyl-2(p-methoxyphenyl)-5-(4'-pyridyl)-IH-imidazole, DiHCl), significantly reduced cAMP-induced MKP-1 mRNA levels. Taken together, our data suggest that cAMP-induced Aa-Nat and Period1 are likely to be mediated by activation of JNK, whereas MKP-1 may be mediated by both p38(MAPK) and JNK activations.
Neocarzinostatin (NCS), an enediyne antimitotic agent, induces cell death in both p75NTR neurotrophin receptor (NTR)-positive and p75NTR-negative PC12 cells in a concentration-dependent fashion. However, p75NTR-positive cells demonstrate a higher susceptibility to NCS-induced cell damage. Furthermore, treatment of p75NTR-positive cells with the p75NTR-specific ligand, MC192, resulted in apoptosis, while treatment of these cells with the TrkA-specific ligand, NGF-mAbNGF30, protected them from NCS-induced death, implying that both the naked and liganded p75NTR receptors have a pro-apoptotic effect on PC12 cells. Microarray studies aimed at examining differential gene expression between p75NTR-positive and p75NTR-negative cells suggested that enzymes of the cholesterol biosynthetic pathway are differentially expressed. We therefore tested the hypothesis that altered cholesterol biosynthesis contributes directly to the pro-apoptotic effects of p75NTR in this PC12 cell-NCS model. Subsequent Northern blotting studies confirmed that the expression of p75NTR is associated with the upregulation of cholesterol biosynthetic enzymes including 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl CoA reductase (HMG CoA reductase), farnesyl-diphosphate synthase, and 7-dehydro-cholesterol reductase. Mevastatin, an HMG CoA reductase inhibitor, converts the apoptosis susceptibility of p75NTR-positive cells to that of p75NTR-negative cells. It does so at concentrations that do not themselves alter cell survival. These studies provide evidence that the pro-apoptotic effects of p75NTR in PC12 cells are related to the upregulation of cholesterol biosynthetic enzymes and consequent increased cholesterol biosynthesis.
The purpose of the present study was to explore the analgesic effects of the low voltage-activated T-type Ca2+ channel blockers ethosuximide, trimethadione, and mibefradil in persistent and acute nociceptive tests. The anticonvulsant effects of the compounds were also determined in the intravenous pentylenetetrazol seizure model. Following intraperitoneal administration, ethosuximide and trimethadione dose-dependently reversed capsaicin-induced mechanical hyperalgesia. Similarly, the highest dose of mibefradil tested (30 microg, intracisternal) reversed capsaicin-induced mechanical hyperalgesia. Ethosuximide and mibefradil produced statistically significant analgesic effects in both early and late phase formalin-induced behaviors and trimethadione reduced late phase behaviors. Additionally, ethosuximide and trimethadione produced antinociceptive effects in the rat-tail flick reflex test. In contrast, following intracisternal administration, mibefradil had no effect in the tail flick reflex test. In addition, the anticonvulsants ethosuximide and trimethadione increased the doses of pentylenetetrazol required to produce both first twitch and clonic seizures. In contrast however, mibefradil had no anticonvulsant effect. The present results demonstrate that the clinically used anticonvulsants ethosuximide and trimethadione provide analgesic effects at doses, which are anticonvulsant. Furthermore, the data further supports the idea that T-type Ca2+ channels may be important targets for treating persistent pain syndromes.
We used cytochrome oxidase (CO) histochemistry in conjunction with other histological methods to investigate the histochemoarchitecture of barrel hollows in rat somatosensory cortex. We found that individual large barrels in the posteromedial barrel subfield encompass two or three discrete subbarrel domains. Detailed analysis revealed, further, that subbarrel domains are relatively consistent in size, each having average dimensions that approximate those of large barrels in mouse S1. Unexpectedly, subbarrel domains are organized into a few distinct, repeated patterns. The small barrels in rat anterolateral barrel subfield and all barrel hollows in mouse S1 appear to consist of single CO domains. Subbarrel domains revealed here by CO are columnar entities that correspond with cyto- and myeloarchitectonic inhomogeneities within the barrels and are enriched in thalamocortical axon terminals. The present findings together with existing data indicate that barrels in rat posteromedial barrel subfield are structurally and functionally heterogeneous.
Marked species differences in the distribution of central tachykinin receptors are reported but uncertainty remains about the ability of available ligands to detect NK2 and NK3 receptors in human brain. We compared the distribution of NK1, NK2, and NK3 receptors in sections from rodent, primate, and human brain using the 125I-labeled ligands substance P (SP) for the NK1 receptor, neurokinin A (NKA) for the NK2 receptor, and neurokinin B (NKB) and eledoisin for NK3 receptors. Duration of exposure to autoradiographic film was from 7 days for [125I]SP up to 90 days for the other ligands. High levels of specific [125I]SP binding were seen throughout the brains of all species studied. Specific [125I]NKA binding was detected in brains from neonatal rat, and to a lesser level in adult rat, gerbil, and guinea pig; it was not detected in monkey or human brain, but was present in circular muscle of human duodenum, confirming that this ligand binds to human NK2 receptors under our experimental conditions. Specific [125I]NKB and [125I]eledoisin binding was widespread in brain sections from rats, gerbils, and guinea pigs, and very low levels were also detected in marmoset, squirrel monkey, and rhesus monkey brain after prolonged (up to 90 days) exposure. We failed to identify specific eledoisin binding in human brain, even after prolonged exposures. These findings demonstrate that the NK1 receptor is the predominant tachykinin receptor expressed in primate and human brain, but that low levels of NK3 receptor are present in nonhuman, primate brain.
The Institute of Medicine report published in 1999 described a healthcare system in which 44,000 to 98,000 patients die each year from preventable medical errors. The healthcare industry has been charged with identifying and ameliorating risks to patients. The advanced practice nurse is in the optimal position to influence the patient care environment and contribute to a culture of patient safety. This article will review the role of the advanced practice nurse in the care of the neuroscience patient in identifying risks unique to this at-risk population. There will be a discussion of risk factors that contribute to errors, with advanced practice nurse-driven, evidence-based solutions. A case presentation of the role of the advanced practice nurse in reducing the incidence of deep vein thrombosis in the craniotomy patients with malignant tumors will be discussed.
Use of technology in the management of the severely brain-injured patient has increased over the past decade and can be confusing and overwhelming to the critical care nurse clinicians who are new to the field of neurology. This article will describe normal physiology and cerebral dynamics and potential abnormal physiology encountered after brain injury. The technology reviewed will include intracranial pressure monitoring, cerebral blood flow monitoring and autoregulation, cerebral oxygen consumption and tissue oxygen monitoring, metabolism, sedation, and temperature monitoring. Integration of appropriate technology into patient management will be discussed using a case study to explore the utility of information at the bedside. Recognizing the difficult task of trying to control secondary injury in our patients is the first step to better outcomes. Implementing the use of technology to mitigate the situation must be done with careful consideration and a team approach to achieve the greatest benefit for the patient.
Evidence suggests that the mortality and morbidity of acquired brain injury could be reduced if clinicians used an aggressive intracranial pressure guided approach to care. Despite nearly 50 years of evidence that intracranial pressure monitoring benefits patient care, only about half of the patients who could benefit are monitored. Some clinicians express concerns regarding risks such as bleeding, infections, and inaccuracy of the technology. Others cite cost as the reason. This article discusses the risks and benefits of intracranial pressure monitoring and the current state of evidence of why patients should be monitored.
A 9-year-old cyanosed child suffering from Osler-Weber-Rendu syndrome with bilateral pulmonary arteriovenous malformations (PAVMs) was posted for cerebral angiography under general anaesthesia. Careful preanaesthetic evaluation led to the diagnosis of coexisting congenital methaemoglobinaemia. There is no previous report of Osler-Weber-Rendu syndrome coexisting with congenital methaemoglobinaemia. This report emphasizes that a second contributory cause of cyanosis must be suspected and meticulously looked for if the symptomatology in a patient cannot be explained by a single established diagnosis. Positive-pressure ventilation was associated with reduction in arterial oxygenation despite an increasing inspired oxygen concentration, which returned to preanaesthetic levels only after extubation and resumption of spontaneous respiration.
Canine X-linked muscular dystrophy (CXMD), which was found in a colony of golden retriever, is caused by a mutation in the dystrophin gene and it is a useful model of Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD). To investigate the pathogenesis and to develop therapy of DMD, we have established a beagle-based CXMD colony in Japan (CXMDJ) and examined their phenotypes. The mortality by 3 days of age in the third generation (G3) of CXMDJ dogs, 32.3%, was considerably higher than that in normal G3 littermates, 13.3%. Serum creatine kinase (CK) levels of G3 CXMDJ were significantly higher than that of normal male dogs with two peaks: at shortly after birth and around 2 months of age. Diaphragm muscle involvement occurred shortly after birth and was more severe than that of limb muscles. Stress during whelping might be associated with the neonatal death and respiratory muscle involvement. Gait disturbance was also noticed after 2 months of age. The involvement of limb and temporal muscles was observed from 2 months of age, which corresponded with the second peak of serum CK. Macroglossia, dysphagia, drooling and jaw joint contracture were overt from 4 months of age. We noticed severe macroglossia and hypertrophy of the sublingual muscles at the age of 12 months, and these were important features of this model, because dysphagia is one of major symptoms in older DMD patients. Overall, the phenotypes of CXMDJ were roughly identical to those of CXMD dogs in the literature. Beagle-based CXMDJ is smaller and easier to handle than golden retriever, therefore they are a useful model for DMD.
Mutations in the dysferlin gene underlie two phenotypically distinct muscular dystrophies: Miyoshi myopathy and limb-girdle muscular dystrophy 2B. Dysferlin was proposed to have a putative functional role in mediating the fusion of intracellular vesicles to the sarcolemma during injury-induced membrane repair, but dysferlin has been found not only at the sarcolemma but also within the cytoplasm of skeletal muscle fibers by immunohistochemistry. In this study, we examined the subcellular localization of dysferlin in skeletal muscle by immunohistochemical and biochemical analyses to elucidate other functional roles of dysferlin. Immunohistochemistry confirmed granular cytoplasmic expression pattern of dysferlin in muscle fibers. Subcellular membrane fractionation revealed that a portion of dysferlin associated with a T-tubule-enriched intracellular membrane fraction as well as a sarcolemmal fraction. This indication was consistent with subsequent results that dysferlin coprecipitates by immunoprecipitation with the dihydropyridine receptor (DHPR), a protein complex localized in T-tubules. Moreover, both proteins were observed to partially colocalize by double immunofluorescent labeling in skeletal muscle fibers. We also found that caveolin-3, previously shown to interact with dysferlin, coprecipitates with DHPR. These results demonstrated that dysferlin may be involved in the formation of an oligomeric complex with DHPR and caveolin-3. Caveolin-3 has been also reported to participate in an insulin-regulated transport mechanism in muscle, and caveolin-3-containing vesicles might traffic between intracellular sites and target sites on the sarcolemma and T-tubules. Therefore, it is very intriguing to assume that dysferlin might be involved in the fusion of caveolin-3-containing vesicles with T-tubules.
In progressive muscular dystrophy, such as Duchenne muscular dystrophy, muscles show the pathological changes characterized by hypertrophy at the early phase, while atrophic changes are seen with aging. As an experimental model for muscle hypertrophy and atrophy, insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) signaling via the activation of PI3K/Akt pathway has been well characterized. IGF-1 is also highlighted as a therapeutic agent as it has been shown to improve phenotype of dystrophic animals. In this review, the functions of IGF-1 on mitogenic proliferation and myogenic differentiation in vitro, muscle hypertrophy in vivo are discussed, as well as its possible utility for molecular therapy on muscular dystrophies.
Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy (EDMD) is an inherited muscular disorder clinically characterized by slowly progressive weakness affecting humero-peroneal muscles, early joint contractures and cardiomyopathy with conduction defects. Autosomal dominant and recessive forms are caused by mutations in lamin A/C gene. Lamin A/C is a major component of nuclear lamina, and its gene mutations cause several human disorders including muscular dystrophy, cardiomyopathy, lipodystrophy, neuropathy, and progeria syndrome. X-linked recessive form of EDMD is caused by mutation in EMD (or STA) gene encoding an integral protein of the inner nuclear membrane. Emerin expresses ubiquitously, but its deficiency affects only limited tissues of skeletal and cardiac muscles and joints. In this paper, I will focus on clinical and pathological aspects of X-EDMD and possible functions of emerin.
Dystrophin is a protein responsible for a severe muscle disease Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD). This molecule, a huge 427 kDa protein, is also expressed in brain neurons, but its function in the central nervous system (CNS) has been obscure. It is known that some DMD patients have accompanying symptoms of CNS disorders such as the cognitive impairment or psychiatric disorders. The bases of the CNS symptoms are unknown. Addressing the CNS function of dystrophin would make the advance on the interpretation of the CNS symptoms accompanying with DMD. In this short review, previous findings on dystrophin in the CNS are summarized to facilitate studies on the CNS function of this molecule. Following topics are in particular focused, (1) regional and subcellular distribution of dystrophin in the brain and the function in GABAergic synapses, (2) the CNS abnormality in dystrophin-deficient 'mdx' mice.
Distal myopathy with rimmed vacuoles (DMRV) and hereditary inclusion body myopathy (HIBM) are now known to be the same disease and are caused by mutations in tile GNE gene that encodes a bifunctional protein with two enzymatic activities: UDP-GlcNAc2-epimerase (GNE) and ManNAc kinase (MNK). GNE catalyzes the rate-limiting step in the sialic acid biosynthesis and MNK catalyzes the next step. So far, we have found homozygous or compound heterozygous mutations in 55 unrelated Japanese DMRV patients. Among them, c.1714G&gt;C (p.V572L) mutation is the most common, accounting for 57% of the mutant alleles. The same mutation was recently identified also in Korean DMRV patients, raising the possibility of the presence of a common founder. We have also found that cardiac involvement is not very rare and is found in 18% of patients, albeit degree of severity widely varies; in some patients, it can result in sudden death. The length of time when patients become non ambulatory is diverse. The severity of clinical symptoms also varies widely, as evidenced by the presence of an asymptomatic homozygote harboring of p.D176V, the second most common mutation among Japanese patients. Patients' fibroblasts and myotubes are hyposialylated and this hyposialylation can be recovered by adding GNE metabolite, ManNAc, or sialic acid per se, NeuAc. Accordingly, the sialylation status in the skeletal muscle tissue is also greatly altered especially in fibers with rimmed vacuoles, suggesting the tight association between hyposialylation and the formation of rimmed vacuoles. However, we still do not know why hyposialylation leads to the formation of rimmed vacuoles. To further elucidate the pathomechanism and to develop a therapy of DMRV, we need to produce mouse model mouse for this disease.





Progress in neuroscience research has given birth to new theories for tinnitus generation. From a point of view where cochlear dysfunctions would be considered as the origin and maintenance mechanisms, it has been introduced the important role of compensation systems from the central auditory pathways. They could act as the most relevant factor for chronic persistent tinnitus after a peripheral aggression. Unmasking of silent synapses or sprouting of new ones activate cortical reorganization for frecuencial areas nearby the non-stimulated ones through brain plasticity. Connections to associative cortex and limbic-amigdala area using the non-classical auditory system explain the presence of hyperacusis, anxiety or depression, factors that increase the severity of tinnitus. Implementation of these physiopathological theories reinforces the tinnitus neurophysiological model. The development of an aversive response through the survival reflex and the participation of negative emotional response are the responsible for signal persistence and vegetative reactions from the autonomous nervous system. Implications of this knowledge for tinnitus treatment involve the central auditory system approach through the combination of medical counselling for reduction of the aversive reaction and sound therapy to diminish its perception.


The diversity of Singapore's population affords a unique opportunity to study ethnic variability in the dementias. We sought to explore the effects of ethnicity on the frequency of Alzheimer disease and vascular dementia in a large Singaporean sample. A total of 357 patients were studied: 190 with vascular dementia and 167 with Alzheimer disease. Vascular dementia was more common among Chinese and Malays, whereas Alzheimer disease was more common in Indians and Eurasians. Factors that may contribute to the observed ethnic variability in dementia etiologies include differential frequency of the ApoE-e4 allele, frequency of vascular risk factors, lifestyle choices, and cultural attitudes toward health care utilization.
The relationship between semantic dementia (SD) and primary progressive aphasia (PPA) has been the subject of debate ever since the syndromes were first described, in converging streams of research from the neuropsychological and neurologic communities. The most salient clinical features of SD are anomia with circumlocution and semantic paraphasia, single-word comprehension deficit, and reduced category fluency. Of critical importance is the fact that patients also show deficits on non-verbal tasks using visual, auditory, and other modalities, suggesting that the key impairment in SD is a breakdown in conceptual knowledge rather than a specific problem with language. The finding of item consistency between the various tests supports this view. The order in which the features appear can be explained by the variable degree of redundancy in access to semantic knowledge from the different perceptual modalities. Atrophy is seen in the anterior and inferior temporal lobe rather than in classic language areas, further distancing SD from aphasic syndromes. Semantic dementia and progressive non-fluent aphasia (PNFA) share some clinical and pathologic characteristics with frontal variant frontotemporal dementia, but there are also clear differences between the three syndromes. We believe that many patients described as having fluent primary progressive aphasia in fact have early SD. Semantic dementia is a well-defined syndrome, distinct from PNFA but related to it within the spectrum of frontotemporal lobar degeneration syndromes.
Frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) without tau pathology is clinically and pathologically heterogeneous. The present report describes the neuropathology of 52 brains with FTLD without tau pathology compared with 10 brains of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) without dementia using ubiquitin immunohistochemistry. The 52 cases were classified into 47 cases of FTLD with motor neuron disease (MND)-type inclusions but without MND (FTLD-MNI), three cases of FTLD with MND (FTLD-MND), and two cases of dementia lacking distinctive histopathology (DLDH) based on the features of ubiquitin-immunoreactive (ubiquitin-ir) structures in the caudate, frontotemporal cortices and dentate fascia, and presence or absence of neuronal loss in lower motor neurons. Many ubiquitin-ir neuronal inclusions and neurites in the caudate nucleus, frontotemporal cortices, and ubiquitin-ir crescent-or ring-shaped neuronal inclusions in the dentate fascia characterized FTLD-MNI. Ubiquitin-ir neuronal intranuclear inclusions (NII) were observed in 26 of 43 cases and associated with many neurites in the caudate nucleus as well as a familial history in most cases. A subset of cases had Pick-body-like inclusions in the dentate fascia and caudate nucleus with paucity of neuritic pathology and no NII; another had crescent-shaped inclusions in the dentate fascia and neuritic pathology with NII in the caudate. FTLD with MND was characterized by a few or no ubiquitin-ir inclusions in the caudate nucleus and frontotemporal cortices and ubiquitin-ir granular inclusions in the dentate fascia, as well as loss of lower motor neurons. These features were similar to ALS, but different from FTLD-MNI. The findings suggest that FTLD-MNI has a different pathogenesis from FTLD-MND and ALS.
A number of neurodegenerative diseases are characterized by the presence of abundant deposits containing Tau protein. Expression of the human tau gene is under complex regulation. Mutations in the tau gene have been identified in patients with frontotemporal lobe dementia. These mutations affect either biochemical/biophysical properties or the delicate balance of different splicing isoforms. In this review, we summarize recent advances in our understanding of genetics and molecular pathogenesis of tauopathies with the focus on frontotemporal lobe dementia. We review published studies on tau pre-mRNA splicing regulation. Understanding molecular mechanisms of tauopathies may help in developing effective therapies for neurodegenerative tauopathies and related disorders, including Alzheimer disease.

A new perspective on how therapeutic hypnosis and neuroscience may be integrated on the molecular-genomic level is offered as a guide for basic research and clinical applications. An update of Watson and Crick's original formulation of molecular biology is proposed to illustrate how psychosocial experiences modulate gene expression, protein synthesis, and brain plasticity during memory trace reactivation for the reorganization of neural networks that encode fear, stress, and traumatic symptoms. Examples of the scientific literature on DNA microarrays are used to explore how this new technology could integrate therapeutic hypnosis, neuroscience, and psychosocial genomics as a new foundation for mind-body medicine. Researchers and clinicians in therapeutic hypnosis need to partner with colleagues in neuroscience and molecular biology that utilize DNA microarray technology. It is recommended that hypnotic susceptibility scales of the future incorporate gene expression data to include the concept of &quot;embodied imagination&quot; and the &quot;ideo-plastic faculty&quot; on a molecular-genomic level as well as the psychological and behavioral level of ideomotor and ideosensory responses that are currently assessed.
Dyspepsia is a chronic or recurrent pain or discomfort centered in the upper abdomen; patients with predominant or frequent (more than once a week) heartburn or acid regurgitation, should be considered to have gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) until proven otherwise. Dyspeptic patients over 55 yr of age, or those with alarm features should undergo prompt esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD). In all other patients, there are two approximately equivalent options: (i) test and treat for Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) using a validated noninvasive test and a trial of acid suppression if eradication is successful but symptoms do not resolve or (ii) an empiric trial of acid suppression with a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) for 4-8 wk. The test-and-treat option is preferable in populations with a moderate to high prevalence of H. pylori infection (&gt; or =10%); empirical PPI is an initial option in low prevalence situations. If initial acid suppression fails after 2-4 wk, it is reasonable to consider changing drug class or dosing. If the patient fails to respond or relapses rapidly on stopping antisecretory therapy, then the test-and-treat strategy is best applied before consideration of referral for EGD. Prokinetics are not currently recommended as first-line therapy for uninvestigated dyspepsia. EGD is not mandatory in those who remain symptomatic as the yield is low; the decision to endoscope or not must be based on clinical judgement. In patients who do respond to initial therapy, stop treatment after 4-8 wk; if symptoms recur, another course of the same treatment is justified. The management of functional dyspepsia is challenging when initial antisecretory therapy and H. pylori eradication fails. There are very limited data to support the use of low-dose tricyclic antidepressants or psychological treatments in functional dyspepsia.
There are many challenges in the pharmacologic management of elderly patients with anxiety disorders, including an increased sensitivity to drug effects, reduced drug metabolism, and socioeconomic barriers leading to poor medication adherence. As such, the purpose of this study was to evaluate differential rates of adherence between paroxetine controlled release (CR) and paroxetine immediate release (IR) in the treatment of anxiety disorders in a Medicare-eligible population. Patients aged 65 years or older initiating therapy with paroxetine CR or paroxetine IR with a diagnosis of anxiety were identified from the Integrated Healthcare Information Services National Managed Care Benchmark database from July 2001 to February 2004. Logistic regression models were used to assess differences in 6-month adherence rates, controlling for differences in multiple background characteristics. Adherence was defined as having a minimum medication possession ratio of 80% over 180 days without evidence of a 15-day gap before 90 days of therapy. Of the 604 patients included in the study, 18% received paroxetine CR and 82% received paroxetine IR; comorbid anxiety and depression were present in 37.3% of patients. Overall, only 37.3% of patients adhered to therapy, with a greater percentage of patients adhering to paroxetine CR (45.0%) compared with paroxetine IR (35.6%). After controlling for background characteristics, patients receiving paroxetine IR were 38.7% less likely to adhere to therapy compared with patients receiving paroxetine CR (P = .0328). When stratified by those with comorbid anxiety and depression, patients receiving paroxetine IR were 55.1% less likely to adhere to therapy compared with patients receiving paroxetine CR (P = .0292). This study demonstrates that antidepressant nonadherence is common in patients older than 65 years of age, with overall rates of nonadherence at 62.7% and patients receiving paroxetine IR having the lowest levels of adherence. Future work should assess differences in all available selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors while also directly assessing the economic impact of nonadherence in the elderly population.

We synthesized and assessed the role of a diacylglycerol (DAG)-containing docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), that is, 1-stearoyl-2-docosahexaenoyl-sn-glycerol (SDHG), in the contraction of guinea pig airway smooth muscle (ASM). We compared its action with 1-stearoyl-2-arachidonoyl-sn-glycerol (SAG) and 1,2-dioctanoyl-sn-glycerol (1,2-DiC8), a stable DAG analog. The three DAGs (SAG, SDHG, and 1,2-DiC8) induced reversible concentration-dependent contraction of ASM. SDHG induced higher guinea pig ASM contraction than did SAG and 1,2-DiC8. The effects of SDHG were blocked, to different extents, by nifedipine (L-type Ca2+ channel blocker). By employing GF-109203X (protein kinase C [PKC] inhibitor) and lanthanum (La3+), a nonselective cation channel blocker, we observed that SDHG evoked ASM contractile response via PKC-dependent and PKC-independent (but Ca2+-dependent) pathways. Interestingly, SAG exerted its action only by increasing [Ca2+]i and did not require PKC activation. To probe the implication of calcium mobilization, we employed thapsigargin (TG), which also induced ASM contraction in a calcium-dependent manner. SDHG and 1,2-DiC8, in a PKC-dependent manner, induced the phosphorylation of CPI-17 (myosin light chain phosphatase inhibitor of 17 kD). Furthermore, SAG and TG failed to phosphorylate CPI-17 in ASM cells. Our results suggest that different DAG species, produced during a dietary supplementation with fatty acids, could modulate the reactivity of airway smooth muscles in a PKC-dependent and -independent manner, and hence, may play a critical role in health and disease.

The concept of reserve in neuroscience maintains that there are aspects of brain structure and function that can buffer the effects of neuropathology such that the greater the reserve, the more severe the pathology must be to cause functional impairment. This article provides a concise overview of structural and functional approaches to reserve and shows how reserve may be conceived as the sum of its lifetime input. In this context, reserve therefore provides an empirical yet general model of cognitive aging and development.
The Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) has been widely adopted. Failure to assess the verbal score in intubated patients and the inability to test brainstem reflexes are shortcomings. We devised a new coma score, the FOUR (Full Outline of UnResponsiveness) score. It consists of four components (eye, motor, brainstem, and respiration), and each component has a maximal score of 4. We prospectively studied the FOUR score in 120 intensive care unit patients and compared it with the GCS score using neuroscience nurses, neurology residents, and neurointensivists. We found that the interrater reliability was excellent with the FOUR score (kappa(w) = 0.82) and good to excellent for physician rater pairs. The agreement among raters was similar with the GCS (kappa(w) = 0.82). Patients with the lowest GCS score could be further distinguished using the FOUR score. We conclude that the agreement among raters was good to excellent. The FOUR score provides greater neurological detail than the GCS, recognizes a locked-in syndrome, and is superior to the GCS due to the availability of brainstem reflexes, breathing patterns, and the ability to recognize different stages of herniation. The probability of in-hospital mortality was higher for the lowest total FOUR score when compared with the lowest total GCS score.
A critical role of mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative damage has been hypothesized in both aging and neurodegenerative diseases. Much of the evidence has been correlative, but recent evidence has shown that the accumulation of mitochondrial DNA mutations accelerates normal aging, leads to oxidative damage to nuclear DNA, and impairs gene transcription. Furthermore, overexpression of the antioxidant enzyme catalase in mitochondria increases murine life span. There is strong evidence from genetics and transgenic mouse models that mitochondrial dysfunction results in neurodegeneration and may contribute to the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, hereditary spastic paraplegia, and cerebellar degenerations. Therapeutic approaches targeting mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative damage in these diseases therefore have great promise.






Handling rat pups by removing them from the nest during the preweaning period has been shown to influence brain and behavioral development. The authors hypothesized that handling rats with perinatal (Day 4) medial frontal cortex removals might attenuate behavioral deficits and reverse dendritic atrophy associated with such an injury. On the day after surgery, pups were removed from the nest for 15 min, 3 times per day until weaning. Animals were tested as adults in the Morris water task and on skilled reaching. Handled animals showed no improvement in behavioral performance. The handling procedure led to a decrease in dendritic length in parietal cortex, but spine density was unchanged. No therapeutic advantage was observed following the preweaning handling of brain-injured rats.
The hippocampus has been implicated in anxiety, novelty detection, spatial- contextual processing, and hyperactivity. Accordingly, the authors contrasted the role of the dorsal hippocampus (DH) and the basolateral amygdala complex (BLA) in an open field task that presents the onset and termination of a bright light gradient. In the dark, DH rats demonstrated impaired habituation of locomotion behavior and hyperactivity, whereas in bright light their behaviors were normal. DH rats responded differentially to the onset and termination of the light stimulus, which indicates they have normal novelty detection. BLA lesion rats responded normally to bright light. These results demonstrate that a mild fear stimulus, such as bright light, can suppress DH lesion-evoked hyperactivity, and this hyperactivity results from impaired contextual processing.
The Edinger-Westphal nucleus (EW) produces several neuropeptides, including urocortin 1 and cocaine-amphetamine-regulated transcript, which regulate feeding, energy balance, and anxiety. Additionally, the EW projects to feeding and anxiety-regulatory brain areas. The authors tested the effect of lesions of the EW on the consumption of food, water and flavored solutions, metabolic indices, and exploratory behavior on the elevated plus maze in male C57BL/6J mice. EW lesion significantly reduced basal and deprivation-induced food and fluid consumption compared with sham and placement controls, but it did not alter behavior on the elevated plus maze. EW lesion had no effect on indices of basal metabolic activity, including plasma glucose level and body temperature. These effects suggest that the peptidergic neurons of the EW regulate food consumption.
The authors developed an animal model of binge eating where history of caloric restriction with footshock stress (R + S) causes rats to consume twice the normal amount of palatable food. The authors tested the hypothesis that binge eating is mediated by changes in opioid control of feeding by comparing rats' anorectic and orexigenic responses to naloxone and butorphanol, respectively, and by testing the ability of butorphanol to elicit binge eating of chow when palatable food was absent. Mu/kappa opioid-receptor blockade and activation had exaggerated responses in the R + S rats with naloxone suppressing binge eating to control levels, and although butorphanol did not trigger chow binge eating, it enhanced binge eating of palatable food. These responses in sated normal-weight rats strengthen evidence that reward, over metabolic need, drives binge eating.
Repeated high dose (5.0 mg/kg) anabolic-androgenic steroid (AAS) exposure during adolescence stimulates offensive aggression in male Syrian hamsters. These studies examined whether AAS-induced aggression was regulated by the activity of serotonin (5HT) type-1B receptors and correlated with altered 5HT1B expression. AAS-treated hamsters were tested for offensive aggression following the administration of the 5HT1B agonist anpirtoline (0.125-0.5 mg/kg). Anpirtoline dose-dependently reduced select components of the AAS-induced aggressive response, with significant reductions observed at 0.25 mg/kg. Aggressive, AAS-treated hamsters showed significant decreases in the area covered by 5HT1B-containing neuronal puncta and increases in the number of 5HT1B-containing neuronal somata in select brain regions implicated in aggression control. Together, these data support a role for site-specific alterations in 5HT1B signaling and expression in adolescent AAS-induced aggression.


A novel series of N-alkyl-substituted cyclic sulfamides were developed from a screening hit. Chemistries were developed which allowed surveys of N-alkyl groups and amines resulting in the identification of N-trifluoroethyl-substituted cyclic sulfamides with good in vitro and in vivo gamma-secretase activity. One compound with subnanomolar activity elicited a reduction in brain Abeta40 after oral dosing in APP-YAC mice.
Serotonin (5-HT) is an ancient chemical that plays a crucial functional role in almost every living organism. It regulates platelet aggregation, activation of immune cells, and contraction of stomach and intestinal muscles. In addition, serotonin acts as a neurotransmitter in the brain and the peripheral nervous system. These activities are initiated by the binding of serotonin to 15 or more receptors that are pharmacologically classified into seven groups, 5-HT1 through 5-HT7. Each group is further divided into subgroups of receptors that are homologous but are encoded by discrete genes. With the exception of the 5-HT3 receptor--a cation channel--all of the others are G protein-coupled receptors that potentially activate or inhibit a large number of biochemical cascades. This review will endeavor to compare and contrast such signaling pathways with special attention to their tissue-specific occurrence, their possible role in immediate effects on covalent modification of other proteins, and relatively slower effects on gene expression, physiology and behavior.
Indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase (IDO) is the rate-limiting enzyme in the kynurenine pathway of tryptophan metabolism. IDO activity is linked with immunosuppression by its ability to inhibit lymphocyte proliferation, and with neurotoxicity through the generation of quinolinic acid and other toxins. IDO is induced in macrophages by HIV-1 infection, and it is up regulated in macrophages in human brain tissue with HIV-1 encephalitis (HIVE). Using a model of HIVE, we investigated whether IDO inhibitor 1-methyl-d-tryptophan (1-MT) could affect the generation of cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) and clearance of virus-infected macrophages from the brain. Severe combined immunodeficient mice were reconstituted with human peripheral blood lymphocytes, and encephalitis was induced by intracranial injection of autologous HIV-1-infected monocyte-derived macrophages (MDMs). Animals treated with 1-MT demonstrated increased numbers of human CD3+, CD8+, CD8+/interferon-gamma+ T cells, and HIV-1(gag/pol)-specific CTLs in peripheral blood compared with controls. At week 2 after MDM injection in the basal ganglia, mice treated with 1-MT showed a 2-fold increase in CD8+ T lymphocytes in the areas of the brain containing HIV-1-infected MDMs compared with untreated controls. By week 3, 1-MT-treated mice showed 89% reduction in HIV-infected MDMs in brain as compared with controls. Thus, manipulation of immunosuppressive IDO activity in HIVE may enhance the generation of HIV-1-specific CTLs, leading to elimination of HIV-1-infected macrophages in brain.
A rare case of vesical calculi complicating the procedure of ventriculo-vesical shunt is presented. In addition to highlighting technical difficulties in placing shunt catheters into the urinary system, the potential complications are discussed. We consider this route of cerebrospinal fluid(CSF) diversion less physiological compared with the peritoneal, pleural or the venous sites, and discourage use of the urinary bladder as the drainage site for the shunting of CSF.
The in vivo effect of inhibitors of fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH) upon oedema volume and FAAH activity was evaluated in the carrageenan induced hind paw inflammation model in the mouse. Oedema was measured at two time points, 2 and 4 h, after intraplantar injection of carrageenan to anaesthetised mice. Intraperitoneal (i.p.) injections of the FAAH inhibitor URB597 (0.1, 0.3, 1 and 3 mg kg(-1)) 30 min prior to carrageenan administration, dose-dependently reduced oedema formation. At the 4 h time point, the ED(50) for URB597 was approximately 0.3 mg kg(-1). Indomethacin (5 mg kg(-1) i.p.) completely prevented the oedema response to carrageenan. The antioedema effects of indomethacin and URB597 were blocked by 3 mg kg(-1) i.p. of the CB(2) receptor antagonist SR144528. The effect of URB597 was not affected by pretreatment with the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma antagonist bisphenol A diglycidyl ether (30 mg kg(-1) i.p.) or the TRPV1 antagonist capsazepine (10 mg kg(-1) i.p.), when oedema was assessed 4 h after carrageenan administration. The CB(1) receptor antagonists AM251 (3 mg kg(-1) i.p.) and rimonabant (0.5 mg kg(-1) i.p.) gave inconsistent effects upon the antioedema effect of URB597. FAAH measurements were conducted ex vivo in the paws, spinal cords and brains of the mice. The activities of FAAH in the paws and spinal cords of the inflamed vehicle-treated mice were significantly lower than the corresponding activities in the noninflamed mice. PMSF treatment almost completely inhibited the FAAH activity in all three tissues, as did the highest dose of URB597 (3 mg kg(-1)) in spinal cord samples, whereas no obvious changes were seen ex vivo for the other treatments. In conclusion, the results show that in mice, treatment with indomethacin and URB597 produce SR144528-sensitive anti-inflammatory effects in the carrageenan model of acute inflammation.
In a brain composed of localized but connected specialized areas, disconnection leads to dysfunction. This simple formulation underlay a range of 19th century neurological disorders, referred to collectively as disconnection syndromes. Although disconnectionism fell out of favour with the move against localized brain theories in the early 20th century, in 1965, an American neurologist brought disconnection to the fore once more in a paper entitled, 'Disconnexion syndromes in animals and man'. In what was to become the manifesto of behavioural neurology, Norman Geschwind outlined a pure disconnectionist framework which revolutionized both clinical neurology and the neurosciences in general. For him, disconnection syndromes were higher function deficits that resulted from white matter lesions or lesions of the association cortices, the latter acting as relay stations between primary motor, sensory and limbic areas. From a clinical perspective, the work reawakened interest in single case studies by providing a useful framework for correlating lesion locations with clinical deficits. In the neurosciences, it helped develop contemporary distributed network and connectionist theories of brain function. Geschwind's general disconnectionist paradigm ruled clinical neurology for 20 years but in the late 1980s, with the re-emergence of specialized functional roles for association cortex, the orbit of its remit began to diminish and it became incorporated into more general models of higher dysfunction. By the 1990s, textbooks of neurology were devoting only a few pages to classical disconnection theory. Today, new techniques to study connections in the living human brain allow us, for the first time, to test the classical formulation directly and broaden it beyond disconnections to include disorders of hyperconnectivity. In this review, on the 40th anniversary of Geschwind's publication, we describe the changing fortunes of disconnection theory and adapt the general framework that evolved from it to encompass the entire spectrum of higher function disorders in neurology and psychiatry.
Spinal cord contusion injury (SCI) is known to induce pain-related behaviour, as well as hyperresponsiveness in lumbar dorsal horn nociceptive neurons associated with the aberrant expression of Na(v)1.3, a rapidly repriming voltage-gated sodium channel. Many of these second-order dorsal horn neurons project to third-order neurons in the ventrobasal complex of the thalamus. In this study we hypothesized that, following SCI, neurons in the thalamus undergo electrophysiological changes linked to aberrant expression of Na(v)1.3. Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats underwent contusion SCI at the T9 thoracic level. Four weeks post-SCI, Na(v)1.3 protein was upregulated within thalamic neurons in ventroposterior lateral (VPL) and ventroposterior medial nuclei, where extracellular unit recordings revealed increased spontaneous discharge, afterdischarge, hyperresponsiveness to innocuous and noxious peripheral stimuli, and expansion of peripheral receptive fields. Altered electrophysiological properties of VPL neurons persisted after interruption of ascending spinal barrage by spinal cord transection above the level of the injury. Lumbar intrathecal administration of specific antisense oligodeoxynucleotides generated against Na(v)1.3 caused a significant reduction in Na(v)1.3 expression in thalamic neurons and reversed electrophysiological alterations. These results show, for the first time, a change in sodium channel expression within neurons in the thalamus after injury to the spinal cord, and suggest that these changes contribute to altered processing of somatosensory information after SCI.
This study presents the clinical findings on seven children from Malta (population 385,000). All of them had early motor delay and a significant degree of cognitive impairment. Diurnal variation of the motor impairments was clear in six out of seven of the subjects and oculogyric crises occurred from an early stage also in six out of the seven. Five out of seven had clear evidence of dystonia but the early picture was dominated by hypotonia in five. Two had early Parkinsonian tremor and chorea was seen in four, although in two this was attributable to the use of L-dopa. Three had early bulbar involvement. In all, although minor motor problems persisted, the response to L-dopa was dramatic and there was a need to balance improvement in dystonia against aggravation of chorea. The majority were not able to walk until they were treated. Increased doses of L-dopa were required in hot weather, to which they were sensitive. Despite a good response of improved motor ability and abolition of oculogyric crises, there was no obvious change in cognitive function with learning remaining in the moderate impairment range. This report widens the phenotype of dopa-responsive motor disorders and the range of young children with primary motor delay (cerebral palsy) who need a clinical trial of L-dopa. All of the subjects had the same novel mutation in the tetrahydrobiopterin pathway involving sepiapterin reductase, and no abnormality in the gene encoding guanosine triphosphate cyclohydrolase 1. Clinically and molecularly the condition shows autosomal recessive inheritance.
Intracranial aneurysms have long been considered a once in a lifetime event. Nevertheless, patients who survive after subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH) may be at risk for new aneurysms. In a cohort of patients with clipped aneurysms, we studied the yield of screening in the years after the SAH and we tried to identify risk factors for formation of new aneurysms as well as for enlargement of aneurysms that were already present at the time of the SAH. We screened 610 patients who had been admitted between 1985 and 2001 for SAH by means of CT-angiography. Risk factors were evaluated by Cox regression analyses. With screening we detected 129 aneurysms in 96 (16%) patients, after a mean interval of 8.9 years. Of these, 24 (19%) were located at the site of the previously ruptured and clipped aneurysm and 105 (81%) at a site remote from the clip site. Of the aneurysms at a remote site 59 could be compared with the initial (CT)-angiogram. Of these, 19 were truly de novo (32%) and 40 (68%) were already visible in retrospect. Of the 53 aneurysms that were followed over time 13 (25%) had enlarged. Risk factors for aneurysm formation and growth were presence of multiple aneurysms at time of SAH (HR 3.2, 95% CI 1.2-8.6), current smoking (HR 3.8, 95% CI 1.5-9.4) and hypertension (HR 2.3, 95% CI 1.1-4.9). These results suggest that intracranial aneurysms should not be considered as a single event in a lifetime but rather as a continuous process. Patients with a previous SAH have a substantial risk for new aneurysm formation and enlargement of untreated aneurysms. Screening these patients might be beneficial, especially in patients with multiple aneurysms, hypertension and a history of smoking. The risks and benefits of screening, however, should be carefully weighed, for example, in a decision model.
Recent data indicate that the familiarity and the emotional expression of faces occur at an early stage of information processing. The goal of the present study was to determine whether these two aspects interact at the structural encoding stage as reflected by the N170 component of event-related potentials in tasks requiring the subjects either to identify whether the faces were familiar or the nature of the emotional expression. The results indicate that the neural responses to level of familiarity and emotional expression were observable at this early processing stage but without interacting. In particular, faces of personal importance to the subjects differed from those of less personal importance. Because familiarity did not interact with emotional expression at behavioral and electrophysiologic levels, our results support the contention of parallel and independent processing of faces.
Past research has found evidence for face and emotional expression processing differences between individuals with Asperger's syndrome (AS) and neurotypical (NT) controls at both the neurological and behavioural levels. The aim of the present study was to examine the neurophysiological basis of emotional expression processing in children and adults with AS relative to age- and gender-matched NT controls. High-density event-related potentials were recorded during explicit processing of happy, sad, angry, scared, and neutral faces. Adults with AS were found to exhibit delayed P1 and N170 latencies and smaller N170 amplitudes in comparison to control subjects for all expressions. This may reflect impaired holistic and configural processing of faces in AS adults. However, these differences were not observed between AS and control children. This may result from incomplete development of the neuronal generators of these ERP components and/or early intervention.
Many of the clinical symptoms of autism suggest autonomic dysfunction. The aim of this study was to measure baseline cardiovascular autonomic function in children with autism using the NeuroScope, a device that can measure this brainstem function in real-time. Resting cardiac vagal tone (CVT), cardiac sensitivity to baroreflex (CSB), mean arterial blood pressure (MAP), diastolic blood pressure (DBP), systolic blood pressure (SBP) and heart rate (HR) were recorded in three different groups of children. The symptomatic group (n = 15) consisted of those with autism who exhibited symptoms or signs of autonomic dysfunction. The asymptomatic group (n = 13) consisted of children with autism but without symptoms or signs of autonomic dysfunction and the healthy children were in the control group (n = 17) [corrected]. The CVT and CSB were significantly lower in association with a significant elevation in HR, MAP and DBP in all children with autism compared with the healthy controls. Further more, the levels of CVT and CSB were lower in the symptomatic than in the asymptomatic group. The levels of CVT and CSB were not related to age in all the three groups. These results suggest that there is low baseline cardiac parasympathetic activity with evidence of elevated sympathetic tone in children with autism whether or not they have symptoms or signs of autonomic abnormalities.
We suggest a united concept of consciousness and emotion, based on the systemic cognitive neuroscience perspective regarding organisms as active and goal-directed. We criticize the idea that consciousness and emotion are psychological phenomena having quite different neurophysiological mechanisms. We argue that both characterize a unified systemic organization of behavior, but at different levels. All systems act to achieve intended behavioral results in interaction with their environment. Differentiation of this interaction increases during individual development. Any behavioral act is a simultaneous realization of systems ranking from the least to the most differentiated. We argue that consciousness and emotion are dynamic systemic characteristics that are prominent at the most and least differentiated systemic levels, correspondingly. These levels are created during development. Our theory is based on both theoretical and empirical research and provides a solid framework for experimental work.
The question of whether there is a right-hemisphere dominance in the processing of auditory spatial information in human cortex as well as the role of the corpus callosum in spatial hearing functions is still a matter of debate. Here, we approached this issue by investigating two late-callosotomized subjects and one subject with agenesis of the corpus callosum, using a task of sound lateralization with variable interaural time differences. For comparison, three subjects with left or right hemispherectomy were also tested by employing identical methods. Besides a significant reduction in their acuity, subjects with total or partial section of the corpus callosum exhibited a considerable leftward bias of sound lateralization compared to normal controls. No such bias was found in the subject with callosal agenesis, but merely a marginal reduction of general acuity. Also, one subject with complete resection of the left cerebral cortex showed virtually normal performance, whereas another subject with left hemispherectomy and one subject with right hemispherectomy exhibited severe deficits, with almost total loss of sound-lateralization ability. The results obtained in subjects with callosotomy indicate that the integrity of the corpus callosum is not indispensable for preservation of sound-lateralization ability. On the other hand, transcallosal interhemispheric transfer of auditory information obviously plays a significant role in spatial hearing functions that depend on binaural cues. Moreover, these data are compatible with the general view of a dominance of the right cortical hemisphere in auditory space perception.
We describe the case of a callosotomized man, D.D.V., who shows unusual neglect of stimuli in the left visual field (LVF). This is manifest in simple reaction time (RT) to stimuli flashed in the LVF and in judging whether pairs of filled circles in the LVF are of the same or different color. It may reflect strong left-hemispheric control and consequent attention restricted to the right side of space. It is not evident in simple RT when there are continuous markers in the visual fields to indicate the locations of the stimuli. In this condition, his RTs are actually faster to LVF than to right visual field (RVF) stimuli, suggesting a switch to right-hemispheric control that eliminates the hemineglect. Neglect is also not evident when D.D.V. responds by pointing to or touching the locations of the stimuli, perhaps because these responses are controlled by the dorsal rather than the ventral visual system. Despite his atypical manifestations of hemineglect, D.D.V. showed evidence of functional disconnection typical of split-brained subjects, including prolonged crossed-uncrossed different in simple reaction time, inability to match colors between visual fields, and enhanced redundancy gain in simple RT to bilateral stimuli even when the stimulus in the LVF was neglected.
Working memory is thought to involve separate modality-specific storage systems. Interactions between these storage systems were investigated using a novel cross-modal 2-back paradigm. 2-back, 1-back and target items were presented either visually as a verbalizable linedrawing or auditorily as a digitized spoken word. ERPs for auditory targets were primarily modulated by the presentation modality of the 2-back item, whereas ERPs for visual targets were largely modulated by presentation modality of the 1-back item. Results indicate that verbalizable pictures are only partially transformed into a phonological code for rehearsal in working memory. Furthermore, results support the idea of a more stable and persistent auditory short-term store as opposed to a more transiently activated visual store for verbalizable material.
Eye movements are an integral part of visual function. They are particularly well developed in frontal-eyed predator species. The abducens nuclei ensure lateral ocular motor synergy, while the oculomotor nuclei control vertical eye movements and convergence. The two main types of conjugate eye movement--saccades (image switching) and slow movements (image stabilization)--are controlled by specific brainstem premotor structures (respectively reticular and vestibular). Upstream of the brainstem, the cortical and subcortical pathways involved in eye movements are gradually being elucidated. Saccades are being used as a motor model to study the different cognitive processes, such as spatial memory, prediction and decision, involved in general movement preparation. The classical approaches based on lesion analysis, combined with transcranial magnetic stimulation and functional cerebral imaging, are contributing to our understanding of how the brain functions. Eye movements can be used for bedside diagnostic purposes, but also for sophisticated laboratory studies designed to explore the universe of cognition.
Schizophrenia is a psychiatric disorder with a complicated pathophysiology, involving many biochemical abnormalities in the brain. Because neuroactive steroids (NASs) modulate neurotransmitter systems that are implicated in the pathology of schizophrenia, recent research has focused on examining the role that NASs play in the illness. Although research in this area is relatively new, it appears that NASs may potentially be implicated in the pathophysiology of the illness. This paper reviews the current understanding of NASs, the research literature on NASs in schizophrenia and in animal models of the illness (including the effects of antipsychotic medication on NASs) and on the potential antipsychotic role of NASs themselves and, finally, discusses future directions for this area of schizophrenia research.

In 2001, the Ontario Ministry of Health and Long-Term Care introduced the Ontario Stroke Strategy by designating regional stroke centres across the province. The primary role of these centres is to coordinate stroke care within the region and across the care continuum in keeping with best practices. Concurrently, Trillium Health Centre was identifying best practice projects to support its ongoing quest for excellence. With Trillium designated as a regional stroke centre, acute ischemic stroke care was an obvious choice for a best practice project. The aim of the project was to improve access to care and quality of care for stroke patients from emergency through acute care to in-patient rehabilitation. The team chose the rapid cycle change methodology. This approach to quality improvement advocates the testing of a series of small changes (i.e., process improvement ideas) in tandem with measurements to assess the impact of the change to drive further process improvements. The project was deemed a success, resulting in significant improvements in the timeliness and quality of care.
Neurotrophins protect neurons against glutamate excitotoxicity, but the signaling mechanisms have not been fully elucidated. We studied the role of the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3-K) and Ras/mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathways in the protection of cultured hippocampal neurons from glutamate induced apoptotic cell death, characterized by nuclear condensation and activation of caspase-3-like enzymes. Pre-incubation with the neurotrophin brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), for 24 h, reduced glutamate-evoked apoptotic morphology and caspase-3-like activity, and transiently increased the activity of the PI3-K and of the Ras/MAPK pathways. Inhibition of the PI3-K and of the Ras/MAPK signaling pathways abrogated the protective effect of BDNF against glutamate-induced neuronal death and similar effects were observed upon inhibition of protein synthesis. Moreover, incubation of hippocampal neurons with BDNF, for 24 h, increased Bcl-2 protein levels. The results indicate that the protective effect of BDNF in hippocampal neurons against glutamate toxicity is mediated by the PI3-K and the Ras/MAPK signaling pathways, and involves a long-term change in protein synthesis.
Gangliosides, a heterogeneous family of glycosphingolipids abundant in the brain, have been shown to affect neuronal plasticity during development, adulthood and aging. This review will examine old and recent evidence that exogenous gangliosides and in particular GM1, the prototype member of this family, exhibit multimodal neurotrophic effects. Since these compounds are a potential therapeutic tool for the treatment of various forms of acute or chronic neurodegenerative diseases, understanding the dynamic interplay of gangliosides and neuronal cells is essential in the effort to cure neurological disorders. Focus will be given to the novel and provocative hypothesis that gangliosides' neuroprotective properties may derive from their ability to mimic endogenous neurotrophic factors.
Myosins are a large family of actin-based motor proteins that are involved in a variety of cellular processes. Class II, or conventional, myosins are organized into a number of multi-component structures such as muscle thick filaments, non-muscle filaments and the actomyosin ring during cell division. A number of conditions must be met for the proper assembly and organization of myosin II-containing structures, including the correct stoichiometry of myosin and its associated proteins, and the conformation and regulation of the myosin molecule itself by molecular chaperones and protein kinases. In this review we discuss the use of model organisms in the genetic analysis of the assembly and organization of myosin-containing structures.
The cytoskeleton, composed of actin filaments, intermediate filaments, and microtubules, is a highly dynamic supramolecular network actively involved in many essential biological mechanisms such as cellular structure, transport, movements, differentiation, and signaling. As a first step to characterize the biophysical changes associated with cytoskeleton functions, we have developed finite elements models of the organization of the cell that has allowed us to interpret atomic force microscopy (AFM) data at a higher resolution than that in previous work. Thus, by assuming that living cells behave mechanically as multilayered structures, we have been able to identify superficial and deep effects that could be related to actin and microtubule disassembly, respectively. In Cos-7 cells, actin destabilization with Cytochalasin D induced a decrease of the visco-elasticity close to the membrane surface, while destabilizing microtubules with Nocodazole produced a stiffness decrease only in deeper parts of the cell. In both cases, these effects were reversible. Cell softening was measurable with AFM at concentrations of the destabilizing agents that did not induce detectable effects on the cytoskeleton network when viewing the cells with fluorescent confocal microscopy. All experimental results could be simulated by our models. This technology opens the door to the study of the biophysical properties of signaling domains extending from the cell surface to deeper parts of the cell.
Extracellular matrix-like molecule reelin and cell surface adhesion receptors such as alpha3beta1 integrin can regulate neuronal migration and position in the developing cerebral cortex. Here we show that alpha3beta1 integrin binds to the N-terminal region of reelin, a site distinct from the region of reelin shown to associate with other reelin receptors such as VLDLR/ApoER2. Furthermore, Dab1, a member of the reelin signaling pathway, can complex with the cytoplasmic region of beta1 integrin in a reelin-dependent manner. Thus, alpha3beta1 integrin-reelin interactions may contribute to appropriate neuronal placement in the developing cerebral cortex.
Depression is common in the elderly, particularly in older persons with neurologic illness. Its etiology in this population is incompletely understood and likely to be multifactorial. Identifying depression in elderly patients with neurologic illness can be a challenge, as many of its features resemble symptoms of the underlying neurologic disease or of the aging process itself. Nevertheless, recognition and effective management of depression in this population is vital, since depression is a major source of excess morbidity and since treatment often results in improved quality of life for patients and their caregivers. Assessing for suidicality is a key diagnostic consideration in this population. Antidepressant medications, psychotherapy, and electroconvulsive therapy all can be effective in treating depression in elderly neurologic patients.
The study of phase consistency of high frequency EEG/MEG components can reveal properties of neuronal networks that are informative about their excitability state. The clue is that these properties are easier to put in evidence when the response of the neuronal networks is evoked by an adequate stimulation paradigm. The latter may be considered a probe of neuronal excitability state capable of revealing hidden information contained in the phase structure of neuronal activities. In this context the high frequency band components appear to be the most reactive signals.

Ewing's sarcomas (ES) account for approximately 10% of primary malignant bone tumors. Primary Ewing's sarcoma of the skull is a very rare entity. We report a case of Ewing's sarcoma of the sphenoid bone in a 5-year-old boy. CT scan showed heterogeneously enhancing mass with associated spiculated new bone formation along the posterolateral wall of the orbit. Magnetic resonance (MR) imaging showed markedly heterogeneously signal intensity mass lesion containing areas of hemorrhage and fluid-fluid levels. Spiculated new bone formation and fluid-fluid levels had not been reported previously in skull Ewing's sarcomas and may be helpful features for preoperative diagnosis.

The purpose of this study is to describe our initial experience of imaging adults with localisation-related epilepsy using MR imaging at 3.0T. We discuss the findings in the context of the recently released NICE guidelines that provide detailed advice on imaging people with epilepsy in the UK. 120 consecutive people over the age of 16 years with localisation-related epilepsy were referred for clinical MR examinations from a regional neuroscience centre in England. None of the people had had MR examinations prior to the present study. High resolution MR imaging was performed taking advantage of the high field strength and high performance gradients of the system. Two experienced neuroradiologists reported on the examinations independently and the presence and type of pathology was recorded. There was complete agreement between the two reporters in all 120 cases. The overall frequency of abnormalities shown by MR was 31/120 (26%) and the commonest abnormality shown was mesial temporal sclerosis found in 10/120 (8%). Tumours were shown in 4/120, all of which appeared low grade as judged by imaging criteria. Epilepsy is the commonest neurological condition and demands a significant resource in order to provide good care for sufferers. Recent guidelines published in the UK have suggested that the majority of people with epilepsy should receive brain MR as part of their routine assessment. Our work shows that using the most sophisticated MR imaging in a highly selected population there is a modest pick-up rate of brain abnormalities. If a widespread epilepsy-imaging programme is started the detection rate is likely to be much lower. Although MR is acknowledged to be a reliable way of detecting pathology in people with epilepsy there is a dearth of information studying the health economics of imaging epilepsy in relation to patient management and outcomes.
Major progress has been made in the last decade in understanding the genetic basis of PD (Parkinson's disease) with five genes unequivocally associated with disease. As a result, multiple pathways have been implicated in the pathogenesis of PD, including proteasome impairment and mitochondrial dysfunction. Although Mendelian genetics has been successful in establishing a genetic predisposition for familial PD, this has not been reiterated in the sporadic form. In fact no genetic factors have been unequivocally associated with increased risk for sporadic PD. The difficulty in identifying susceptibility factors in PD has not only been because of numerous underpowered studies, but we have been unable to dissect out the genetic component in a multifactorial disease. This review aims to summarize the genetic findings within PD.
The nervous system innervates most of the organs in the body, and controls and coordinates their activities. Effective coordination depends on accurate feedback from target organs. Recent studies have identified a target-based feedback mechanism that regulates a simple neural circuit, the cardiac ganglion-a network of nine neurons whose rhythmic bursts of action potentials drive the contractions of the crustacean heart. The feedback agent, nitric oxide (NO), is produced by the target organ (the heart), and acts on the neural circuit (the ganglion), thus serving as a retrograde, trans-synaptic signaling molecule. NO decreases the ganglionic burst rate, which has both negative chronotropic and negative inotropic effects on the heartbeat. This article will review the evidence identifying NO as an inhibitory modulator in the crustacean heart, and will present new data showing that these inhibitory effects are not mediated by cGMP, the canonical downstream agent mobilized by NO in many other systems. Rather, our data suggest that in the crustacean heart cGMP may play a secondary role in the process of adaptation that occurs in during prolonged exposures to NO.



From a clinical as well as a neuropathological point of view Alzheimer's disease (AD) has been the focus of intense research for more than three decades. Most studies to identify morphometric correlates with the declining cognitive function in normal aging and AD have employed semi-quantitative methods to assess neuropathological markers such as neurofibrillary tangles, senile plaques, neuronal, or glial cell densities, and neuron sizes. To this end, many cell counting methods have employed two-dimensional designs in single sections, yielding estimates of cell numbers either as neuron densities (number of cell profiles per area) or estimates of the size distribution of neuron profiles in columns vertical to the cortical surface. This approach gives rise to difficulties in interpretation because of the three-dimensional size, shape, and orientation of the counted cells, and the effect of shrinkage artifacts. Modern stereological techniques offer a more rigorous approach for quantifying neuropathological changes associated with aging and degenerative disease. However the stereological studies also suffer from the limitations of high biological variability in AD-type neuropathology, and the relative scarcity of autopsied brains from well-studied non-demented comparison subjects. As a result, the clinicopathological associations between neuropathology and indices of cognitive performance in aging and AD are not yet firmly established. The requirement for the proper description of morphologic neuropathology of AD is clear: any macroscopic or microscopic abnormalities, are subtle and must consequently be demonstrated reproducibly in well-controlled studies. In this review we try to evaluate which, if any, of the contemporary claims for morphometric brain abnormalities in AD can be said to be well established, with special emphasis placed on human stereological post-mortal studies.
For over 50 years, acetaminophen (paracetamol) has been a staple in industrialized and non-industrialized countries for the treatment of pain and fever. Although its precise mechanisms of action are not known, the drug generates dose-dependent reduction in circulating prostaglandins, inhibits myeloperoxidase and the oxidation of lipoproteins, and appears to confer cardioprotection by blocking the effects of hydroxyl radical, peroxynitrite, and hydrogen peroxide. The drug might inhibit cyclooxygenase, although its ultimate target(s) is (are) still unclear. Sadly, since most investigations of acetaminophen have focused on its analgesic/antipyretic properties and hepatotoxicity, the effects of the drug on other mammalian organ systems, including the heart and circulation, have been ignored. Recently, work in our laboratory has shown acetaminophen to have a protective role in the injured mammalian myocardium. The cardioprotection was first observed in isolated, perfused guinea pig hearts subjected to ischemia-reperfusion injury. Hearts pretreated with acetaminophen recovered greater ventricular function and exhibited improved myofibrillar ultrastructure when compared to vehicle-treated hearts. More recent in vitro investigations have suggested protective roles for acetaminophen in barbiturate-induced arrhythmogenesis and myocardial hypoxia-reoxygenation injury. We have also extended our work to the in vivo arena. There, we found that acetaminophen reduced infarct size in dogs exposed to 60 minutes regional myocardial ischemia and 180 minutes reperfusion. We invite and encourage readers of this review to repeat/duplicate our experiments. Such work is needed to either challenge or support our findings. Further, more clinically-relevant work depends on these basic and related translational experiments.
In susceptible individuals, stressors can increase the risk of onset of depression and recent brain imaging studies have shown morphometric alterations in the limbic system of patients affected by depression. The volume loss observed in the hippocampus of depressed individuals suggests a possible involvement of structural neuronal plasticity in the pathogenesis of depression. Stressful conditions in animals can result in impaired structural neuronal plasticity in the hippocampus, characterised by retraction of apical dendrites and decreased neurogenesis. The intrinsic dynamic instability of the cytoskeletal microtubular system is essential for neuronal remodelling and plasticity. We have recently shown that both acute and chronic stress decrease microtubular dynamics in the rat hippocampus. Other authors have demonstrated that proteins functionally involved in the regulation of microtubule dynamics can be altered by stress in the rodent hippocampus. Furthermore, the existence of a link between stress-induced microtubular changes and depression is further strengthened by evidence showing that both acute and chronic treatment with antidepressant drugs can affect the expression of microtubular proteins. The present review will introduce a growing body of evidence suggesting that stress-induced alterations in neuronal plasticity might be considered the final result of activation and/or inhibition of molecular cascades regulating the dynamics of the microtubular system. In addition, the prospect of targeting microtubules as a pharmacotherapeutic approach to treat mood disorders will be discussed.
PKC plays an important role in many types of learning and memory. Evidence has been provided that PKC activation and translocation are induced in associative learning tasks. PKC inhibition, on the other hand, impairs learning and memory, consistent with the observations that transgenic animal models with a particular PKC isoform deficit exhibit impaired capacity in cognition. The dramatic impact of PKC pharmacology on learning and memory is further emphasized by a regulatory role of PKC isozymes in amyloid production and accumulation. Recent study reveals that PKC activation greatly reduces neurotoxic amyloid production and accumulation. PKC activators, therefore, may have important therapeutic values in the treatment of dementia, especially when fine-tuning of selective isoform activity can be effectively achieved pharmacologically, with further development of isozymes-specific agents. The success of antidementia therapy with agents that act on PKC signaling cascades depends on whether such agents at their effective doses would significantly disrupt or interfere with other vital functions that rely on a narrow range of PKC activities.

Anticonvulsant and neuroprotective effects of agonist and antagonist of metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) have been known for more than 10 years from multiple studies. However, it is not certain whether these candidate drugs are also antiepileptic and antiepileptogenic, as few studies included the chronic stages to determine whether spontaneous recurrent seizures could be prevented or stopped. Even in the acute stage, differences in experimental design such as timing and route of administration of candidate drugs, age, species and strain of experimental animal and experimental model make it difficult to determine the anticonvulsant and europrotective effects of each candidate drug. This paper, reviews in vivo neuropharmacological studies on agonsists and antagonists of mGluRs in different seizure and epilepsy models in last more than ten years. By combining with our neuropharmacological studies on the effect of mGluR agonists and antagonists in the mouse pilocarpine model of temporal lobe epilepsy, an ideal model for future development of mGluR agonists and antagonists as antiepileptogenic drugs will be proposed.

Zinc has emerged as a metal ion of substantial interest in biology and medicine, especially in neuroscience, gene transcription, the immune response, and mammalian reproduction. Fueling these advances in understanding has been the development of new fluorescence-based indicator systems for zinc with unprecedented sensitivity and selectivity. This review summarizes recent progress in the development of fluorescence-based sensors and biosensors for zinc, with a view to evaluating their suitability for use with biologically derived specimens, especially in vivo and in situ.
KS Biomedix (formerly Avicenna Medica; now a subsidiary of the Xenova group) and Nycomed, together with Japanese licensee Sosei and Chinese licensee PharmaEngine, are developing TransMID, a transferrin-mediated diphtheria toxin delivery system for the potential treatment of adult, recurrent, inoperable, high-grade glioma (as TransMID-107R). It is also under investigation for other forms of brain cancer, including early brain cancer (as TransMID-107N), metastatic brain cancer (as TransMID-107M) and pediatric brain cancer (as TransMID-107P). TransMID is currently undergoing phase III clinical trials.
There is a wide range of literature on soft lithography, organic surface science (especially self-assembled monolayers of organic thiols adsorbed on gold) and microfluidics. These areas have developed in the fields of physical and surface chemistry, materials science and condensed matter physics, but they offer broad new capabilities in the development of relevant micro- and nanosystems to users in biology in general, and in cell biology in particular. The ability to integrate these techniques for fabricating materials and for controlling the chemistry of surfaces with electrical and electrochemical measurements should be especially relevant in neurobiology. The major impediment to the development of a field of 'microfabrication and measurement' in neuroscience is the absence of effective collaborative interactions between the communities of fabricators and neurobiologists.
Immediate-early genes have gained widespread popularity as activity markers for mapping neuronal circuits involved in specific behaviors in many different species. In situ immediate early gene detection methods provide cellular level resolution, a major benefit for mapping neuronal networks. Recent advances using fluorescence in situ hybridization also afford temporal resolution, enabling within-animal activity maps for two distinct behaviors. Moreover, use of transgenic mice with fluorescent reporter proteins driven by immediate early gene promoters is enabling repeated measurements, over long time scales, of cortical activity within the same animal. These methodological innovations, coupled with recent advances in fluorescence imaging and probe development, will enable large scale mapping of behaviorally relevant circuits with temporal and three-dimensional spatial resolution in experimental animals.
If we are to understand how the brain performs different integrated functions in cellular terms, we need both to understand all relevant levels of analysis from the molecular to the behavioural and cognitive levels and to realize an integration of such levels. This is currently a major challenge for neuroscience. Most research, whether dealing with perception, action or learning, focuses on a few levels of organization, for instance the molecular level and brain imaging, and leaves other crucial areas practically untouched. To reach the level of understanding that we desire, a multi-level approach is required in which the different levels link into each other. It is possible to bridge across the different levels for one system, and this has been demonstrated, for example, in the lamprey in generation of goal-directed locomotion. It can be argued that an integrated analysis of any neural system cannot be performed without the aid of a close interaction between experiments and modelling. The dynamic processing within any neural system is such that an intuitive interpretation is rarely sufficient.
Neural stem cells continually generate new neurons in very limited regions of the adult mammalian central nervous system. In the neurogenic regions there are unique and highly specialized microenvironments (niches) that tightly regulate the neuronal development of adult neural stem cells. Emerging evidence suggests that glia, particularly astrocytes, have key roles in controlling multiple steps of adult neurogenesis within the niches, from proliferation and fate specification of neural progenitors to migration and integration of the neuronal progeny into pre-existing neuronal circuits in the adult brain. Identification of specific niche signals that regulate these sequential steps during adult neurogenesis might lead to strategies to induce functional neurogenesis in other brain regions after injury or degenerative neurological diseases.
While building the nervous system, regions of some developing axons are eliminated; this can also happen as a result of axonal injury. During development, many axon branches that are formed in excess of an organism's needs are fated for removal in a process called axon pruning. By contrast, when axons are injured the axon segment distal to the injury site is compartmentalized and eliminated. In both cases, the end result is similar -- a region of an axon is selected for removal. Recent evidence suggests that there are some similarities in the cellular and molecular mechanisms that regulate axon elimination in development and during axonal injury.
Quantifying similarity and dissimilarity of spike trains is an important requisite for understanding neural codes. Spike metrics constitute a class of approaches to this problem. In contrast to most signal-processing methods, spike metrics operate on time series of all-or-none events, and are, thus, particularly appropriate for extracellularly recorded neural signals. The spike metric approach can be extended to multineuronal recordings, mitigating the 'curse of dimensionality' typically associated with analyses of multivariate data. Spike metrics have been usefully applied to the analysis of neural coding in a variety of systems, including vision, audition, olfaction, taste and electric sense.



Atopic dermatitis is a pruritic skin disease affecting predominantly young people. There is evidence that psychologic stress constitutes an increased risk for atopy and influences the disease's clinical course. This risk is believed mediated by the effects of stress on neuroimmunoregulation, which in turn modulates the hypersensitivity response and involves immunoglobulin E-mediated inflammation, helper T-cell 2 predominance, and eosinophilia. This article examines theoretic perspectives and other behavioral dimensions, such as maternal caring behavior, infant response to stress, temperament, and the so-called &quot;hygiene hypothesis.&quot; The Darwinian framework and the mental scenario are examined. These processes may be akin to the generation of antibodies by the immune system.
Dermatologic disorders generally have a major impact on patients' daily activities, psychologic and emotional state, and social relationships. The intensity of impact of skin disease on an individual person is extremely variable, however, and depends on natural history of the disorder; the patient's demographic characteristics, personality, character, and value; the patient's life situation; and the attitudes of society. Social stigma toward dermatologic disorders in the Indian society is quite widespread, especially toward leprosy. Dermatologists are expected to consider quality of life issues along with social aspects, nature of disorder, efficacy, and tolerability of various therapeutic options to optimize relief and comfort to their patient.
Blastema formation, the initial stage of epimorphic limb regeneration in amphibians, is an essential process to produce regenerates. In our study on nerve dependency of blastema formation, we used forelimb of Xenopus laevis froglets as a system and applied some histological and molecular approaches in order to determine early events during blastema formation. We also investigated the lateral wound healing in comparison to blastema formation in limb regeneration. Our study confirmed at the molecular level that there are nerve-dependent and -independent events during blastema formation after limb amputation, Tbx5 and Prx1, reliable markers of initiation of limb regeneration, that start to be expressed independently of nerve supply, although their expressions cannot be maintained without nerve supply. We also found that cell proliferation activity, cell survival and expression of Fgf8, Fgf10 and Msx1 in the blastema were affected by denervation, suggesting that these events specific for blastema outgrowth are controlled by the nerve supply. Wound healing, which is thought to be categorized into tissue regeneration, shares some nerve-independent events with epimorphic limb regeneration, although the healing process results in simple restoration of wounded tissue. Overall, our results demonstrate that dedifferentiated blastemal cells formed at the initial phase of limb regeneration must enter the nerve-dependent epimorphic phase for further processes, including blastema outgrowth, and that failure of entry results in a simple redifferentiation as tissue regeneration.
The aim of this paper is to clarify how neural mechanisms at the molecular level, specifically the serotonergic (5-HT) system and the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis system (HPA) in conjunction with early life stress may contribute to the emergence of aggression, self-directed and otherwise, in borderline personality disorder (BPD). Chronic dysregulation of these biological systems, which function to regulate stress and emotion, may potentiate the development of impulsive aggression in borderline personality conditions. Our central premise in this paper is that brain development, stress regulation, and early pathonomic experience are interactive and cumulative in their mutual influence on the development of impulsive aggression in BPD. We review the parameters of impulsive aggression in BPD, followed by a discussion of the neurobiological and neuroendocrine correlates of impulsive aggression with and without BPD. We then focus on the developmental continuities in BPD with attention to brain maturation of 5-HT and HPA axis function during the life span and the influence of early adverse experiences on these systems. Finally, we comment on the data of the relative stability of aggression in BPD, adolescence as a developmental stage of potential vulnerability, and the course of aggressive behavior during the life span.
It has been suggested that growth cones navigating through the developing nervous system might display adaptation, so that their response to gradient signals is conserved over wide variations in ligand concentration. Recently however, a new chemotaxis assay that allows the effect of gradient parameters on axonal trajectories to be finely varied has revealed a decline in gradient sensitivity on either side of an optimal concentration. We show that this behavior can be quantitatively reproduced with a computational model of axonal chemotaxis that does not employ explicit adaptation. Two crucial components of this model required to reproduce the observed sensitivity are spatial and temporal averaging. These can be interpreted as corresponding, respectively, to the spatial spread of signaling effects downstream from receptor binding, and to the finite time over which these signaling effects decay. For spatial averaging, the model predicts that an effective range of roughly one-third of the extent of the growth cone is optimal for detecting small gradient signals. For temporal decay, a timescale of about 3 minutes is required for the model to reproduce the experimentally observed sensitivity.
The diversification of neural-crest-derived sympathoadrenal (SA) progenitor cells into sympathetic neurons and neuroendocrine adrenal chromaffin cells was thought to be largely understood. In-vitro studies with isolated SA progenitor cells had suggested that chromaffin cell differentiation depends crucially on glucocorticoids provided by adrenal cortical cells. However, analysis of mice lacking the glucocorticoid receptor gene had revealed that adrenal chromaffin cells develop mostly normally in these mice. Alternative cues from the adrenal cortex that may promote chromaffin cell determination and differentiation have not been identified. We therefore investigated whether the chromaffin cell phenotype can develop in the absence of an adrenal cortex, using mice deficient for the nuclear orphan receptor steroidogenic factor-1 (SF1), which lack adrenal cortical cells and gonads. We show that in Sf1-/- mice typical chromaffin cells assemble correctly in the suprarenal region adjacent to the suprarenal sympathetic ganglion. The cells display most features of chromaffin cells, including the typical large chromaffin granules. Sf1-/- chromaffin cells are numerically reduced by about 50% compared with the wild type at embryonic day (E) 13.5 and E17.5. This phenotype is not accounted for by reduced survival or cell proliferation beyond E12.5. However, already at E12.5 the 'adrenal' region in Sf1-/- mice is occupied by fewer PHOX2B+ and TH+ SA cells as well as SOX10+ neural crest cells. Our results suggest that cortical cues are not essential for determining chromaffin cell fate, but may be required for proper migration of SA progenitors to and/or colonization of the adrenal anlage.
In avians and mice, trunk neural crest migration is restricted to the anterior half of each somite. Sclerotome has been shown to play an essential role in this restriction; the potential role of other somite components in specifying neural crest migration is currently unclear. By contrast, in zebrafish trunk neural crest, migration on the medial pathway is restricted to the middle of the medial surface of each somite. Sclerotome comprises only a minor part of zebrafish somites, and the pattern of neural crest migration is established before crest cells contact sclerotome cells, suggesting other somite components regulate the pattern of zebrafish neural crest migration. Here, we use mutants to investigate which components regulate the pattern of zebrafish trunk neural crest migration on the medial pathway. The pattern of trunk neural crest migration is aberrant in spadetail mutants that have very reduced somitic mesoderm, in no tail mutants injected with spadetail morpholino antisense oligonucleotides that entirely lack somitic mesoderm and in somite segmentation mutants that have normal somite components but disrupted segment borders. Fast muscle cells appear dispensable for patterning trunk neural crest migration. However, migration is abnormal in Hedgehog signaling mutants that lack slow muscle cells, providing evidence that slow muscle cells regulate the pattern of trunk neural crest migration. Consistent with this idea, surgical removal of adaxial cells, which are slow muscle precursors, results in abnormal patterning of neural crest migration; normal patterning can be restored by replacing the ablated adaxial cells with ones transplanted from wild-type embryos.
The pivotal role of agrin in inducing postsynaptic specializations at neuromuscular junctions has been well characterized. Increasing evidence suggests that agrin is also involved in neuronal development. In this study, we found that agrin inhibited neurite extension and, more importantly, a gradient of agrin induced repulsive growth-cone turning in cultured Xenopus spinal neurons. Incubation with a neutralizing antibody to agrin or expression of the extracellular domain of muscle-specific kinase, a component of the agrin receptor complex, abolished these effects of agrin. Agrin-induced repulsive growth-cone turning requires the activity of PI3-kinase and Ca2+ signaling. In addition, the expression of dominant-negative Rac1 inhibited neurite extension and blocked agrin-mediated growth-cone turning. Taken together, our findings suggest that agrin regulates neurite extension and provide evidence for an unanticipated role of agrin in growth-cone steering in developing neurons.
The evolutionary origin of vertebrate placodes remains controversial because divergent morphologies in urochordates, cephalochordates and vertebrates make it difficult to recognize organs that are clearly homologous to placode-derived features, including the olfactory organ, adenohypophysis, lens, inner ear, lateral line and cranial ganglia. The larvacean urochordate Oikopleura dioica possesses organs that morphologically resemble the vertebrate olfactory organ and adenohypophysis. We tested the hypothesis that orthologs of these vertebrate placodes exist in a larvacean urochordate by analyzing the developmental expression of larvacean homologs of the placode-marking gene families Eya, Pitx and Six. We conclude that extant chordates inherited olfactory and adenohypophyseal placodes from their last common ancestor, but additional independent proliferation and perhaps loss of placode types probably occurred among the three subphyla of Chordata.

Acute systemic administration of a novel and highly selective non-nucleotide P2X(3)/P2X(2/3) receptor antagonist, A-317491, has been shown to reduce chronic hyperalgesia and allodynia in several animal models of pathological pain in the absence of cardiovascular and CNS side effects. Furthermore, these studies have also outlined the antinociceptive profile for a P2X(3)/P2X(2/3) receptor antagonist, as A-317491 was effective in models of chronic inflammatory and neuropathic pain, but not in models of acute, acute inflammatory or visceral pain. The development of A-317491 has also added to the current understanding of P2X(3)/P2X(2/3) receptor pharmacology and its contributions to nociceptive transmission and modulation. To this end, recent studies have demonstrated that both spinal and peripheral P2X(3)/P2X(2/3) receptors have significant but differential contributions to nociception in animal models of nerve or tissue injury, and that antagonism of spinal P2X(3)/P2X(2/3) receptors results in an indirect activation of the opioid system to alleviate inflammatory thermal hyperalgesia and chemogenic nociception. Thus, preclinical data have shown considerable promise for the utility of a P2X(3)/P2X(2/3) receptor antagonist to alleviate various forms of chronic pain. Furthermore, the discovery of this selective and metabolic stable antagonist for P2X(3)/P2X(2/3) receptors has also been useful in defining the contributions of these receptors to states of pathological pain.
The auditory brain stem response to speech mimics the acoustic characteristics of the speech signal with remarkable fidelity. This makes it possible to derive from it considerable theoretical and clinically applicable information relevant to auditory processing of complex stimuli. Years of research have led to the current characterization of these neural events with respect to the underlying acoustic information they reflect. The majority of data reviewed here originates from studies using a /da/ syllable to elicit the brain stem response, which consists of transient and periodic (frequency following) neural activity. We describe how the human auditory brain stem response separately encodes source and filter characteristics of the acoustic signal, which reflects paralinguistic and linguistic information simultaneously conveyed in speech. In normal-hearing individuals, these two classes of response components (source and filter) are highly correlated within a class but not between classes. This response dissociation becomes pronounced when stimuli are presented in background noise or with faster stimulus rates. In addition, some learning-impaired children show a selective deficiency in the neural encoding of acoustic features associated with the filter characteristics of speech. These children show no deficits in the encoding of source components, further supporting the notion of separate neural mechanisms. Overall, the auditory brain stem response to speech provides a way to access subcortical auditory processing mechanisms and may be used as a biological marker of deficient sound encoding associated with learning and auditory processing disorders.

A central event in mammalian reproduction is the LH surge that induces ovulation and corpus luteum formation. Typically, the LH surge is initiated in ovariectomized rats by sequential treatment with estrogen and progesterone (PROG). The traditional explanation for this paradigm is that estrogen induces PROG receptors (PR) that are activated by exogenous PROG. Recent evidence suggests that whereas exogenous estrogen is necessary, exogenous PROG is not. In ovariectomized-adrenalectomized rats, estrogen treatment increases hypothalamic PROG levels before an LH surge. This estrogen-induced LH surge was blocked by an inhibitor of 3beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase/delta5-delta4 isomerase (3beta-HSD), the proximal enzyme for PROG synthesis. These data indicate that estrogen induces de novo synthesis of PROG from cholesterol in the hypothalamus, which initiates the LH surge. The mechanism(s) by which estrogen up-regulates neuro-PROG is unknown. We investigated whether estrogen increases 1) mRNA levels for several proteins involved in PROG synthesis and/or 2) activity of 3beta-HSD in the hypothalamus. In ovariectomized-adrenalectomized rats, estrogen treatment increased 3beta-HSD mRNA in the hypothalamus, as measured by relative quantitative RT-PCR. The mRNAs for other proteins involved in steroid synthesis (sterol carrier protein 2, steroidogenic acute regulatory protein, and P450 side chain cleavage) were detectable in hypothalamus but not affected by estrogen. In a biochemical assay, estrogen treatment also increased 3beta-HSD activity. These data support the hypothesis that PROG is a neurosteroid, produced locally in the hypothalamus from cholesterol, which functions in the estrogen positive-feedback mechanism driving the LH surge.
Lactation is characterized by extreme hyperphagia and negative energy balance resulting from a large energy drain due to milk production and by a suppression of cyclic ovarian function. Increases in neuropeptide Y and agouti-related protein and a decrease in proopiomelanocortin expression in the arcuate nucleus of hypothalamus (ARH) may contribute to the hyperphagia to maintain energy balance and to the suppression of LH secretion associated with lactation. However, little is known about the full extent of neuroendocrine changes in the ARH that may contribute to the various adaptations occurring during lactation. To address this issue, we used Affymetrix microarray to acquire a reliable profile of the lactation-induced transcriptional changes in micropunches containing the ARH and a portion of the ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus. Using high stringency criteria, 12 genes were identified as being differentially regulated during lactation, and an additional 10 genes and three transcribed sequences were identified using moderate stringency criteria. Changes in neuropeptide Y, enkephalin, tyrosine hydroxylase, and dynorphin, genes previously shown to be differentially regulated during lactation, provide validation for the microarray analysis. New genes identified as being differentially expressed include those related to neurotransmission, growth factors, signal transduction, and structure remodeling. These data identify new genes in ARH/ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus that may play an important role in the adaptations of lactation related to hyperphagia, milk production, and the suppression of cyclic reproductive function and may contribute to elucidating a framework for integrating changes in energy intake with the regulation of reproductive function during lactation.



This study investigated the relationship between clinical symptoms and cognitive dysfunction in multiple sclerosis. Cognitive dysfunction and visual evoked potentials (VEPs) were studied in patients free of physical disability and mildly to moderately disabled patients with multiple sclerosis (MS). Disability-free patients (EDSS &lt; or = 1.5; n = 13), mildly to moderately disabled patients (EDSS ranging from 2 to 6; n = 13) and a healthy matched control group (n = 16) were examined with respect to attention, verbal and nonverbal memory and early visual processing (VEPs). Disability-free patients showed mild impairments on phasic alertness and divided attention. Deficits were more pronounced in mildly to moderately disabled patients who were additionally impaired with respect to non-verbal memory. Despite adequate visual acuity, one half of all patients showed abnormal VEP latencies for both eyes at the same time. The findings suggest that cognitive deficits are already present in multiple sclerosis even in the absence of physical disability. Even with normal visual acuity, perceptual impairments should be considered as part of the CNS affection.
Skin biopsy has become a widely used tool to investigate small calibre sensory nerves including somatic unmyelinated intraepidermal nerve fibres (IENF), dermal myelinated nerve fibres, and autonomic nerve fibres in peripheral neuropathies and other conditions. Different techniques for tissue processing and nerve fibre evaluation have been used. In March 2004, a Task Force was set up under the auspices of the European Federation of Neurological Societies (EFNS) with the aim of developing guidelines on the use of skin biopsy in the diagnosis of peripheral neuropathies. We searched the Medline database from 1989, the year of the first publication describing the innervation of human skin using immunostaining with anti-protein-gene-product 9.5 (PGP 9.5) antibodies, to 31 March 2005. All pertinent papers were rated according to the EFNS guidance. The final version of the guidelines was elaborated after consensus amongst members of the Task Force was reached. For diagnostic purposes in peripheral neuropathies, we recommend performing a 3-mm punch skin biopsy at the distal leg and quantifying the linear density of IENF in at least three 50-mum thick sections per biopsy, fixed in 2% PLP or Zamboni's solution, by bright-field immunohistochemistry or immunofluorescence with anti-PGP 9.5 antibodies (level A recommendation). Quantification of IENF density closely correlated with warm and heat-pain threshold, and appeared more sensitive than sensory nerve conduction study and sural nerve biopsy in diagnosing small-fibre sensory neuropathy. Diagnostic efficiency and predictive values of this technique were very high (level A recommendation). Confocal microscopy may be particularly useful to investigate myelinated nerve fibres, dermal receptors and dermal annex innervation. In future, the diagnostic yield of dermal myelinated nerve fibre quantification and of sweat gland innervation should be addressed. Longitudinal studies of IENF density and regeneration rate are warranted to correlate neuropathological changes with progression of neuropathy and to assess the potential usefulness of skin biopsy as an outcome measure in peripheral neuropathy trials (level B recommendation). In conclusion, punch skin biopsy is a safe and reliable technique (level A recommendation). Training in an established cutaneous nerve laboratory is recommended before using skin biopsy as a diagnostic tool in peripheral neuropathies. Quality control at all levels is mandatory.
Unilateral damage to the forelimb region of the sensorimotor cortex (FLsmc) results in time-dependent changes in neuronal activity, structure and connectivity in the contralateral motor cortex of adult rats. These changes have been linked to facilitation of motor skill learning in the less-affected/ipsilesional forelimb, which is likely to promote its use in the development of behavioral compensation. The goal of this study was to determine whether an early post-lesion-sensitive time period exists for this enhanced learning and whether it is linked to synaptogenesis in the contralesional motor cortex. Rats were trained for 21 days on a skilled reaching task with the ipsilesional forelimb beginning 4 or 25 days after unilateral ischemic (endothelin-1-induced) FLsmc lesions or sham operations. As found previously, reaching performance was significantly enhanced in rats trained early post-lesion compared with sham-operates. In rats trained later post-lesion, performance was neither significantly different from time-matched sham-operates nor strikingly different from animals trained earlier post-lesion. In layer V of the contralesional motor cortex, stereological methods for light and electron microscopy revealed significantly more total, multisynaptic bouton and perforated synapses per neuron compared with sham-operates, but there were no significant differences between early- and late-trained lesion groups. Thus, there appears to be a sensitive time window for the maximal expression of the enhanced learning capacity of the less-affected forelimb but this window is broadly, rather than sharply, defined. These results indicate that relatively long-lasting lesion-induced neuronal changes are likely to underlie the facilitation of learning with the less-affected forelimb.
Proinflammatory cytokines, such as interleukin-1beta and tumour necrosis factor-alpha, are released by activated glial cells in the spinal cord and play a major role in pain facilitation. These cytokines exert their actions, at least partially, through the activation of the transcription factor, nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB). In turn, NF-kappaB regulates the transcription of many inflammatory mediators, including cytokines. We have previously shown that intrathecal injection of the human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) envelope glycoprotein, gp120, induces mechanical allodynia via the release of proinflammatory cytokines. Here, we investigated whether NF-kappaB is involved in gp120-induced pain behaviour in Sprague-Dawley rats. Intrathecal administration of NF-kappaB inhibitors, pyrrolidinedithiocarbamate (PDTC) and SN50, prior to gp120 partially attenuated gp120-induced allodynia. In addition, PDTC delayed and reversed allodynia in a model of neuropathic pain induced by sciatic nerve inflammation. These observations suggest that intrathecal gp120 may lead to activation of NF-kappaB within the spinal cord. To reveal NF-kappaB activation, we assessed inhibitory factor kappaBalpha (IkappaBalpha) mRNA expression by in situ hybridization, as NF-kappaB activation up-regulates IkappaBalpha gene expression as part of an autoregulatory feedback loop. No or low levels of IkappaBalpha mRNA were detected in the lumbar spinal cord of vehicle-injected rats, whereas IkappaBalpha mRNA expression was markedly induced in the spinal cord following intrathecal gp120 in predominantly astrocytes and endothelial cells. Moreover, IkappaBalpha mRNA expression positively correlated with proinflammatory cytokine protein levels in lumbosacral cerebrospinal fluid. Together, these results demonstrate that spinal cord NF-kappaB activation is involved, at least in part, in exaggerated pain states.
Programmed cell death is an important mechanism during brain development in order to control neuronal cell numbers and to correctly form neuronal circuitries. Programmed cell death is also present in neurogenic regions of the adult brain, and a significant portion of the adult-born cells is eliminated during the first months of maturation. We here address the question whether overexpression of the anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2 would improve the survival of neural progenitor cells and, as a consequence, increase neurogenesis in the adult hippocampus. Transgenic animals, which express human Bcl-2 under the neuron-specific enolase promoter (NSE-huBcl-2), show a significant reduction of apoptotic cells in the hippocampal granule cell layer to about half of the wild-type level. These apoptotic cells are almost exclusively found in the zone of hippocampal progenitor activity and frequently co-label with the neuronal progenitor marker doublecortin (DCX). The rate of adult neurogenesis is doubled in the dentate gyrus of Bcl-2-overexpressing mice as demonstrated by quantification of progenitor cells using DCX and new neurons using bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU)/neuronal nuclei antigen (NeuN) double-labelling. The effect of Bcl-2 is limited to the late phase of progenitor maturation, as proliferation and early-phase progenitor cells were not affected. The increased level of neurogenesis leads to a significantly higher total number of granule cells in the dentate gyrus. These results underline the importance of developmental cell death during neurogenesis in the adult brain.
To obtain insight into the morphological and molecular correlates of motoneuron degeneration in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) mice that express G93A mutant superoxide dismutase (SOD)1 (G93A mice), we have mapped and characterized 'sick' motoneurons labelled by the 'stress transcription factors' ATF3 and phospho-c-Jun. Immunocytochemistry and in situ hybridization showed that a subset of motoneurons express ATF3 from a relatively early phase of disease before the onset of active caspase 3 expression and motoneuron loss. The highest number of ATF3-expressing motoneurons occurred at symptom onset. The onset of ATF3 expression correlated with the appearance of ubiquitinated neurites. Confocal double-labelling immunofluorescence showed that all ATF3-positive motoneurons were immunoreactive for phosphorylated c-Jun. Furthermore, the majority of ATF3 and phospho-c-Jun-positive motoneurons were also immunoreactive for CHOP (GADD153) and showed Golgi fragmentation. A subset of ATF3 and phosphorylated c-Jun-immunoreactive motoneurons showed an abnormal appearance characterized by a number of distinctive features, including an eccentric flattened nucleus, perikaryal accumulation of ubiquitin immunoreactivity, juxta-nuclear accumulation of the Golgi apparatus and the endoplasmic reticulum, and intense Hsp70 immunoreactivity. These abnormal cells were not immunoreactive for active caspase 3. We conclude that motoneurons in ALS-SOD1 mice prior to their death and disappearance experience a prolonged sick phase, characterized by the gradual accumulation of ubiquitinated material first in the neurites and subsequently the cell body.
The phosphorylation of ionotropic glutamate receptors (iGluRs) by protein kinases plays a crucial role in synaptic plasticity. In the cerebellum, protein kinase C (PKC) activation is required for the induction of long-term depression (LTD) at parallel fibre-Purkinje cell synapses. Although delta2 glutamate receptors (GluRdelta2), expressed predominantly in Purkinje cells, are essential for cerebellar LTD, little is known about the mechanism by which GluRdelta2 participates in LTD or its relationship with PKC activation pathways. We found that a PKC activator, phorbol ester, induced postsynaptic LTD in Purkinje cells in mouse cerebellar slice preparations without significantly changing the presynaptic properties. Under this condition, the GluRdelta2 prepared from the cerebellar slices was significantly phosphorylated. Indeed, the C-terminus of the GluRdelta2 fused with glutathione-S-transferase (GST) was directly phosphorylated by purified PKC at a specific serine residue. In addition, two-dimensional phosphopeptide mapping analysis indicated that the major phosphorylation site of the GST-fusion protein containing the C-terminus of GluRdelta2 was identical to that of GluRdelta2 prepared from cerebellar slices. Therefore, GluRdelta2 is phosphorylated by PKC in vitro and by an LTD-inducing stimulus in slice preparations. Because this region of GluRdelta2 is known to associate with certain intracellular molecules, the PKC phosphorylation status of the C-terminus of GluRdelta2 may be involved in new signaling pathways during LTD.
Increasing evidence implicates glutamate-mediated excitotoxicity as a contributory factor in dopaminergic cell death in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) in Parkinson's disease (PD). Previous studies have suggested that metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) ligands are neuroprotective against excitotoxicity in vitro. In the present study, the neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) produced a significant loss (61.2 +/- 8.9%; P &lt; 0.01) of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunopositive (TH+) cells in both the SNc and striatal dopamine (58.02 +/- 1.27%; P &lt; 0.05) in control male Sprague-Dawley rats. Both losses were significantly attenuated by sub-chronic (7 day) treatment with the Group I mGluR antagonists, 2-methyl-6(phenylethynyl)-pyridine (MPEP) or (S)-(+)-alpha-amino-4-carboxy-2-methylbenzeneacetic acid (LY367385); the Group II mGluR agonist (2R,4R)-4-aminopyrrolidine-2,4-dicarboxylate (2R,4R-APDC); or the Group III mGluR agonist, L(+)-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid (L-AP4). These data demonstrate a neuroprotective action of mGluR ligands in vivo against 6-OHDA toxicity that has important implications for the treatment of PD.
The role of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) localized in dendritic spines has become a subject of intense interest because of its potential functions in local protein synthesis and signal transduction. Although it is recognized from electron microscopic studies that not all spines contain ER, little is know of its dynamic regulation or turnover. Here, we report a surprising degree of turnover of ER within spines. Using confocal microscopy imaging we observed continuity of spine-ER with dendritic ER in hippocampal primary neurons. Over 24 h, less than 50% of spine ER was stable. Despite this high degree of turn over, we identified a significant subset of spines that maintained ER for at least 4 days. These results indicate that within a single neuron, the organelle composition of a spine is unexpectedly dynamic and may explain aspects of the spine-to-spine variation in calcium spike magnitude and localized protein synthesis and trafficking.
In the maintenance phase of fear memory, synaptic transmission is potentiated and the stimulus requirements and signalling mechanisms are altered for long-term potentiation (LTP) in the cortico-lateral amygdala (LA) pathway. These findings link amygdala synaptic plasticity to the coding of fear memories. Behavioural experiments suggest that the amygdala serves to store long-term fear memories. Here we provide electrophysiological evidence showing that synaptic alterations in rats induced by fear conditioning are evident in vitro 10 days after fear conditioning. We show that synaptic transmission was facilitated and that high-frequency stimulation dependent LTP (HFS-LTP) of the cortico-lateral amygdala pathway remained attenuated 10 days following fear conditioning. Additionally, we found that the low-frequency stimulation dependent LTP (LFS-LTP) measured 24 h after fear conditioning was absent 10 days post-training. The persistent facilitation of synaptic transmission and occlusion of HFS-LTP suggests that, unlike hippocampal coding of contextual fear memory, the cortico-lateral amygdala synapse is involved in the storage of long-term fear memories. However, the absence of LFS-LTP 10 days following fear conditioning suggests that amygdala physiology 1 day following fear learning may reflect a dynamic state during memory stabilization that is inactive during the long-term storage of fear memory. Results from these experiments have significant implications regarding the locus of storage for maladaptive fear memories and the synaptic alterations induced by these memories.
Methamphetamine (MA) abuse induces deficits in cognitive performance that are related to dysfunction of the prefrontal cortex (PFC). The medial portion of the prefrontal cortex (mPFC) in rats that is crucial for cognitive function has been shown to undergo long-term potentiation (LTP) in the projections from the hippocampus. However, no study has been performed to evaluate the influence of MA on synaptic plasticity in the hippocampal-mPFC pathways. In the present experiments, we investigated the effects of repeated MA administration on hippocampal-mPFC LTP, together with MA-induced stereotyped behaviors. Repeated MA administration produced behavioral sensitization and LTP impairment in the hippocampal-mPFC pathways. The MA-induced impairment of hippocampal-mPFC LTP was prevented by the pretreatment of dopamine 1 (D1) but not dopamine 2 (D2) receptor antagonists, while D1 and D2 receptor antagonists attenuated the MA-induced stereotyped behaviors. These findings suggest that D1 receptors are crucial for the MA-induced deterioration of synaptic plasticity in the hippocampal-mPFC circuits. Impairment of LTP associated with D1 receptor dysfunction may underlie cognitive deficits in MA-dependent subjects.
The involvement of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) in cerebral ischemia-induced apoptosis was investigated in a model of transient focal cerebral ischemia in rats treated intracerebroventricularly (i.c.v.) with 4-((3-(4-phenoxylphenoxy)propylsulfonyl)methyl)-tetrahydropyran-4-carboxylic acid N-hydroxy amide, a broad spectrum non-peptidic hydroxamic acid MMP inhibitor, and in MMP-9-deficient mice. Our results showed that MMP inhibition reduced DNA fragmentation by 51% (P &lt; 0.001) and cerebral infarct by 60% (P &lt; 0.05) after ischemia. This protection was concomitant with a 29% reduction of cytochrome c release into the cytosol (P &lt; 0.005) and a 54% reduction of calpain-related alpha-spectrin degradation (P &lt; 0.05), as well as with an 84% increase in the immunoreactive signal of the native form of poly(ADP) ribose polymerase (P &lt; 0.01). By contrast, specific targeting of the mmp9 gene in mice did reduce cerebral damage by 34% (P &lt; 0.05) but did not modify the apoptotic response after cerebral ischemia. However, i.c.v. injection of MMP-9-deficient mice with the same broad-spectrum inhibitor used in rats significantly reduced DNA degradation by 32% (P &lt; 0.05) and contributed even further to the protection of the ischemic brain. Together, our pharmacological and genetic results indicate that MMPs other than MMP-9 are actively involved in cerebral ischemia-induced apoptosis.
We have made use of a reporter mouse line in which enhanced green fluorescence protein (GFP) is inserted into the Sox1 locus. We show that the GFP reporter is coexpressed with the Sox1 protein as well as with other known markers for neural stem and progenitor cells, and can be used to identify and isolate these cells by fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS) from the developing or adult brain and from neurosphere cultures. All neurosphere-forming cells with the capacity for multipotency and self-renewal reside in the Sox1-GFP-expressing population. Thus, the Sox1-GFP reporter system is highly useful for identification, isolation and characterization of neural stem and progenitor cells, as well as for the validation of alternative means for isolating neural stem and progenitor cells. Further, transplantation experiments show that Sox1-GFP cells isolated from the foetal brain give rise to neurons and glia in vivo, and that many of the neurons display phenotypic characteristics appropriate for the developing brain region from which the Sox1-GFP precursors were derived. On the other hand, Sox1-GFP cells isolated from the adult subventricular zone or expanded neurosphere cultures gave rise almost exclusively to glial cells following transplantation. Thus, not all Sox1-GFP cells possess the same capacity for neuronal differentiation in vivo.
Pain is more common in multiple sclerosis (MS) than has previously been recognised. In the present study we have investigated the occurrence of central pain (CP) in MS and defined its characteristics. Questionnaires were sent to all 429 patients with definite MS in the patient register at our neurology department. All admitting to pain were interviewed and offered an extended interview and examination. Three hundred and sixty four patients responded (86%), of whom 57.5% reported pain during the course of their disease (21% nociceptive, 2% peripheral neuropathic and 1% related to spasticity). One hundred patients (27.5%) had CP, including 18 patients (4.9%) with trigeminal neuralgia. The non-trigeminal CP was, in 87%, located in the lower and in 31% in the upper extremities. It was mostly bilateral (76%) and constant, with 88% experiencing daily pain. Only 2% had paroxysmal attacks. Aching, burning, pricking were the commonest qualities. The pain was intense with small to moderate spontaneous variation. In 5.5% of all patients (20% of the patients with CP), pain was a presenting symptom, alone or in combination with other symptoms. The most common neurological symptoms/signs besides CP were sensory abnormalities (98%, dominated by abnormal sensibility to painful stimulus and temperature). Trigeminal neuralgia in MS started later in life and after longer disease duration than non-trigeminal pain. Both types of CP existed either chronically or as a feature of relapse. Central pain is thus an important symptom in MS (around 30%) and causes much suffering.

The binding of the norepinephrine transporter radioligand, (S,S)-[18F]FMeNER-D2, to human brain post-mortem was examined in vitro by whole hemisphere autoradiography. The rank order for the density of labelling was: locus coeruleus&gt;cortex approximately cerebellum approximately thalamus&gt;caudate approximately putamen. The NET-selectivity of binding was confirmed by co-incubation with desipramine. The dual NET/SERT inhibitor duloxetine also inhibited specific binding, whereas PE2I or citalopram had no evident effect.

Handedness is often portrayed as a nonfunctional artifact of cerebral asymmetry. Our data, however, indicate that handedness reflects cerebral specialization for specific control processes. Each hemisphere/limb system is specialized for different but complementary functions: the dominant system for controlling limb trajectory dynamics, and the nondominant system for controlling limb position.
Although there is a large decrement in central episodic memory processes as adults age, there is no appreciable decrement in central semantic memory processes (Allen et al., Journal of Gerontology: Psychological Sciences, 57B, P173-P186, 2002; Allen et al., Experimental Aging Research, 28, 111-142, 2002; Mitchell, Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory, and Cognition, 15, 31-49, 1989). The authors develop a theory of episodic memory's connections to cognitive, emotional, and motivational systems to explain these differential age effects. The theory is discussed within the context of the cognitive neuroscience research regarding limbic system connectivity in conjunction with Damasio's notion of somatic markers (Descartes' error: Emotion, reason, and the human brain, New York: Grosset/Putnam, 1994). The central hypothesis is that elements of limbic system circuitry, including portions of the medial temporal lobes and frontal cortex, are associated with both working and long-term episodic memory performance, and by extension, with the capacity to engage in emotion-guided, self-regulatory processes that depend heavily on episodic memory. In contrast, the semantic memory system may have less shared interface with episodic and affective networks (i.e., the limbic-related system), and therefore remain independent of neurocognitive changes impacting emotional states and episodic-type memory processes. Accordingly, this framework may account for the pattern of age-related declines in episodic relative to semantic memory, particularly if older adults experience less emotional activation, and therefore fewer somatic markers, than younger adults. An initial empirical examination of this emotional mediation theory is presented, using preexisting data that include indicators of age, chronic tendency to focus on negative emotional stimuli (neuroticism), and working memory performance.
We have studied a neurodynamic model of cross-modal and cross-temporal associations. We show that a network of integrate-and-fire neurons can generate spiking activity with realistic dynamics during the delay period of a paired associates task. In particular, the activity of the model resembles reported data from single-cell recordings in the prefrontal cortex.
Here we describe an EEG study investigating the interactions between multisensory (audio-visual) integration and spatial attention, using oscillatory gamma-band responses (GBRs). The results include a comparison with previously reported event-related potential (ERP) findings from the same paradigm. Unisensory-auditory (A), unisensory-visual (V), and multisensory (AV) stimuli were presented to the left and right hemispaces while subjects attended to a designated side to detect deviant target stimuli in either sensory modality. For attended multisensory stimuli we observed larger evoked GBRs approximately 40-50 ms post-stimulus over medial-frontal brain areas compared with those same multisensory stimuli when unattended. Further analysis indicated that the integration effect and its attentional enhancement may be caused in part by a stimulus-triggered phase resetting of ongoing gamma-band responses. Interestingly, no such early interaction effects (&lt;90 ms) could be found in the ERP waveforms, suggesting that oscillatory GBRs may be more sensitive than ERPs to these early latency attention effects. Moreover, no GBR attention effects could be found for the unisensory auditory or unisensory visual stimuli, suggesting that attention particularly affects the integrative processing of audiovisual stimuli at these early latencies.
It is well known that the detection thresholds for stationary auditory and visual signals are lower if the signals are presented bimodally rather than unimodally, provided the signals coincide in time and space. Recent work on auditory-visual motion detection suggests that the facilitation seen for stationary signals is not seen for motion signals. We investigate the conditions under which motion perception also benefits from the integration of auditory and visual signals. We show that the integration of cross-modal local motion signals that are matched in position and speed is consistent with thresholds predicted by a neural summation model. If the signals are presented in different hemi-fields, move in different directions, or both, then behavioural thresholds are predicted by a probability-summation model. We conclude that cross-modal signals have to be co-localised and co-incident for effective motion integration. We also argue that facilitation is only seen if the signals contain all localisation cues that would be produced by physical objects.
Brain activity associated with directing attention to one of two possible sensory modalities was examined using high-density mapping of human event-related potentials. The deployment of selective attention was based on visually presented symbolic cue-words instructing subjects on a trial-by-trial basis, which sensory modality to attend. We measured the spatio-temporal pattern of activation in the approximately 1 second period between the cue-instruction and a subsequent compound auditory-visual imperative stimulus. This allowed us to assess the flow of processing across brain regions involved in deploying and sustaining inter-sensory selective attention, prior to the actual selective processing of the compound audio-visual target stimulus. Activity over frontal and parietal areas showed sensory specific increases in activation during the early part of the anticipatory period (~230 ms), probably representing the activation of fronto-parietal attentional deployment systems for top-down control of attention. In the later period preceding the arrival of the &quot;to-be-attended&quot; stimulus, sustained differential activity was seen over fronto-central regions and parieto-occipital regions, suggesting the maintenance of sensory-specific biased attentional states that would allow for subsequent selective processing. Although there was clear sensory biasing in this late sustained period, it was also clear that both sensory systems were being prepared during the cue-target period. These late sensory-specific biasing effects were also accompanied by sustained activations over frontal cortices that also showed both common and sensory specific activation patterns, suggesting that maintenance of the biased state includes top-down inputs from generators in frontal cortices, some of which are sensory-specific regions. These data support extensive interactions between sensory, parietal and frontal regions during processing of cue information, deployment of attention, and maintenance of the focus of attention in anticipation of impending attentionally relevant input.
This study used high-density mapping of human event-related potentials to examine the brain activity associated with selective information processing when subjects were cued on a trial-by-trial basis to perform a discrimination in either the visual or auditory modality. On each trial, word-cues (S1) instructed subjects to attend to features within one sensory-modality of an impending compound auditory-visual stimulus (S2) that arrived approximately 1-second following the cue. Subjects made a discrimination within the cued modality of the S2 stimulus. The spatio-temporal patterns of activity in response to the compound S2 stimulus were examined as a function of the sensory modality being attended. The earliest effects of intersensory attention on visual processing were seen subsequent to the initial activation of visual cortex, beginning at 80 ms and continuing into the P1 and N1 components of the visual ERP. The scalp-topography of this earliest modulation was consistent with modulation of activity in ventral visual stream areas. Thus, the locus of effects on visual S2 processing differed from the anticipatory parieto-occipital biasing activity that preceded S2 presentation. This pattern of effects strongly suggests that the anticipatory activity (following the cue) associated with sustaining the focus of attention during intersensory attention, at least in the context of this paradigm, does not operate as a simple gain mechanism in early visual sensory areas. Rather, attentional biasing can operate through a higher-order process whereby parieto-occipital cortices influence the subsequent flow of visual processing in the ventral stream.
In a visuotactile congruency task, a distracting flash of light presented near a tactile target can influence speeded judgments of tactile location. Localization of the tactile target is more rapid when the elevation of the visual distractor is congruent with the tactile stimulus than when it is incongruent. The goal of the present study was to examine the degree of control that can be exerted on the process proposed to integrate the visual and tactile stimuli. To this end, the proportion of spatially congruent items was manipulated across blocks of trials. A robust congruency effect was observed across three experiments. There was no effect of proportion congruency (varied between 75 and 11% congruent) when the visual event was presented only 30 ms prior to the tactile event. When this lead-time was increased to 100 ms there was a significant increase in the congruency effect, for errors, in the high proportion congruent conditions (experiment 3). We conclude that with sufficient lead-time, top-down influence can be exerted in this task, however, when presented at near simultaneity, visuotactile integration is independent of top-down effects.
The objective of this study was to investigate the adaptive effects of variation in the direction of optic flow, experienced during linear treadmill walking, on modifying locomotor trajectory. Subjects (n=30) walked on a motorized linear treadmill at 4.0 km h(-1) for 24 min while viewing the interior of a 3D virtual scene projected on to a screen 1.5 m in front of them. The virtual scene depicted constant self-motion equivalent to either (1) walking around the perimeter of a room to one's left (Rotating Room group) or (2) walking down the center of a hallway (Infinite Corridor group). The scene was static for the first 4 min and then constant rate self-motion was simulated for the remaining 20 min. Before and after the treadmill locomotion adaptation period subjects performed five stepping trials. In each trial they marched in place to the beat of a metronome at 90 steps min(-1) for a total of 100 steps while blindfolded in a quiet room. The subject's final heading direction (deg) and final X (fore-aft, cm) and final Y (medio-lateral, cm) positions were measured for each trial. During the treadmill locomotion adaptation period subjects' 3D torso position was measured. We found that subjects in the Rotating Room group, as compared with the Infinite Hallway group: (1) showed significantly greater deviation during post-exposure testing in the heading direction and Y position opposite to the direction of optic flow experienced during treadmill walking; and (2) showed a significant monotonically increasing torso yaw angular rotation bias in the direction of optic flow during the treadmill adaptation exposure period. Subjects in both groups showed greater forward translation (in the +X direction) during the post-treadmill stepping task that differed significantly from their pre-exposure performance. Subjects in both groups reported no perceptual deviation in position during the stepping tasks. We infer that viewing simulated rotary self-motion during treadmill locomotion causes adaptive modification of sensorimotor integration in the control of position and trajectory during locomotion, which functionally reflects adaptive changes in the integration of visual, vestibular, and proprioceptive cues. Such an adaptation in the control of position and heading direction during locomotion, because of the congruence of sensory information, demonstrates the potential for adaptive transfer between sensorimotor systems and suggests a common neural site for processing and self-motion perception and concurrent adaptation in motor output.
The lateral prefrontal cortex (LPFC) is important in cognitive control. During the delay period of a working memory (WM) task, primate LPFC neurons show sustained activity that is related to retaining task-relevant cognitive information in WM. However, it has not yet been determined whether LPFC delay neurons are concerned exclusively with the cognitive control of WM task performance. Recent studies have indicated that LPFC neurons also show reward and/or omission-of-reward expectancy-related delay activity, while the functional relationship between WM-related and reward/omission-of-reward expectancy-related delay activity remains unclear. To clarify the functional significance of LPFC delay-period activity for WM task performance, and particularly the functional relationship between these two types of activity, we examined individual delay neurons in the primate LPFC during spatial WM (delayed response) and non-WM (reward-no-reward delayed reaction) tasks. We found significant interactions between these two types of delay activity. The majority of the reward expectancy-related neurons and the minority of the omission-of-reward expectancy-related neurons were involved in spatial WM processes. Spatial WM-related neurons were more likely to be involved in reward expectancy than in omission-of-reward expectancy. In addition, LPFC delay neurons observed during the delayed response task were not concerned exclusively with the cognitive control of task performance; some were related to reward/omission-of-reward expectancy but not to WM, and many showed more memory-related activity for preferred rewards than for less-desirable rewards. Since employing a more preferred reward induced better task performance in the monkeys, as well as enhanced WM-related neuronal activity in the LPFC, the principal function of the LPFC appears to be the integration of cognitive and motivational operations in guiding the organism to obtain a reward more effectively.
Scene recognition has been found to be sensitive to the orientation of the scene with respect to the stationary observer. Recent studies have shown, however, that observer movement can compensate for changes in visual scene orientation, through a process of spatial updating. Here we investigated whether spatial updating in scene recognition is affected by the encoding or learning modality by examining whether observer movement can also compensate for orientation changes in haptic scene recognition. In experiment 1, we replicated previously reported effects of observer movement on visual scene recognition. In experiment 2, we used the same apparatus as in experiment 1 but here participants were required to learn and recognize the scenes using touch alone. We found a cost in recognition performance with changes in scene orientation relative to the stationary observer. However, when participants could move around the scene to recognize the new orientation, then this cost in recognition performance disappeared. Thus, we found that spatial updating applies to recognition in both the visual and haptic modalities, both of which intrinsically encode the spatial properties of a scene.

Recent studies have suggested that the familiarity of a face leads to more robust recognition, at least within the visual domain. The aim of our study was to investigate whether face familiarity resulted in a representation of faces that was easily shared across the sensory modalities. In Experiment 1, we tested whether haptic recognition of a highly familiar face (one's own face) was as efficient as visual recognition. Our observers were unable to recognise their own face models from tactile memory alone but were able to recognise their faces visually. However, haptic recognition improved when participants were primed by their own live face. In Experiment 2, we found that short-term familiarisation with a set of previously unfamiliar face stimuli improved crossmodal recognition relative to the recognition of unfamiliar faces. Our findings suggest that familiarisation provides a strong representation of faces but that the nature of the information encoded during learning is critical for efficient crossmodal recognition.
Patients with Williams-Beuren Syndrome (WBS, also known as Williams Syndrome) show many problems in motor activities requiring visuo-motor integration, such as walking stairs. We tested to what extent these problems might be related to a deficit in the perception of visual depth or to problems in using this information in guiding movements. Monocular and binocular visual depth perception was tested in 33 patients with WBS. Furthermore, hand movements to a target were recorded in conditions with and without visual feedback of the position of the hand. The WBS group was compared to a group of control subjects. The WBS patients were able to perceive monocular depth cues that require global processing, but about 49% failed to show stereopsis. On average, patients with WBS moved their hand too far when no visual feedback on hand position was given. This was not so when they could see their hand. Patients with WBS are able to derive depth from complex spatial relationships between objects. However, they seem to be impaired in using depth information for guiding their movements when deprived of visual feedback. We conclude that the problems that WBS patients have with tasks such as descending stairs are not due to an inability to judge distance.
Within the past decade, several non-canonical opsins have been identified in mammals. These include RGR, peropsin, melanopsin, encephalopsin, and neuropsin. Although all are expressed in the eye, it is likely that they serve to mediate non-visual effects of light on physiology. Some of these opsins, however, may play an indirect role in vision by generating appropriate retinoid chromophores for the rod and cone visual pigments or by regulating the sensitivity of the visual system. Here, we survey the current state of knowledge regarding these opsins.
Intracellular recordings were made in the dorsal hippocampal formation of urethane-anesthetized rats as the local field activity spontaneously cycled between a synchronous condition termed theta and an asynchronous condition termed LIA. All cells reported in this study were labeled with Neurobiotin and classified as theta-related or non-theta-related according to the system of Colom and Bland [Colom, L.V., Bland, B.H., 1987. State-dependent spike train dynamics of hippocampal formation neurons: evidence for theta-ON and theta-OFF cells. Brain Res. 422; 277-286]. The findings are the first demonstration that hippocampal pyramidal cells are functionally heterogeneous in relation to the generation of theta-band oscillation and synchrony. In field CA1 pyramidal cells formed theta-related subsets of phasic theta-ON cells and tonic theta-ON cells and non-theta-related subsets of simple spike discharging cells, complex spike discharging cells and &quot;silent&quot; cells. Similar findings were evident for CA3 pyramidal cells.
The hippocampus receives substantial input from the medial septum/diagonal band of broca (MS/DB) via the fibria-fornix (FF). Projections from the MS/DB innervate hippocampal interneurons that express alpha7 nicotinic receptors and regulate excitation in principal cell populations. In the present report we used stereotaxic surgery, whole-cell patch clamping, and immunohistochemical techniques to evaluate the effects of FF and MS/DB lesions on alpha7 nicotinic receptors in stratum radiatum interneurons. Focal somatic application of ACh (1 mM) evoked methyllycaconitine (MLA)-sensitive currents that were markedly reduced following aspirative lesions of the FF. Reductions in current amplitudes were prevented or restored to levels not significantly different from controls following in vivo treatment with the alpha7-selective agonist GTS-21, and GTS-21 treatment did not change current amplitudes measured in tissue from unlesioned animals. MS/DB injections of the selective cholinergic neurotoxin 192 IgG-saporin did not affect alpha7 receptor currents, although MS/DB ChAT and hippocampal AChE immunolabeling were significantly reduced. In contrast, kainic acid lesions of the MS/DB, potentially more selective for GABAergic projection neurons, produced significant reductions in current amplitudes. These findings are the first to show functional changes in alpha7 receptors following hippocampal denervation and suggest that MS/DB hippocampal innervation regulates functional aspects of hippocampal alpha7 receptors. The results confirm hippocampal alpha7 nicotinic receptors as viable therapeutic targets in diseases that involve degradation of the septohippocampal pathway and may indicate that GABAergic MS/DB hippocampal input plays a more substantial role in the regulation of alpha7 nicotinic receptor function than MS/DB hippocampal cholinergic input.
Cachexia is a wasting syndrome that frequently develops in the setting of chronic diseases including cancer, congestive heart failure, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, AIDS, renal failure and liver failure. Loss of lean body mass is believed to be a significant factor contributing to morbidity and mortality in these chronic diseases; however, there are currently no treatments available that have proven to be effective in reversing the progressive loss of lean body mass in cachectic patients. Evidence from animal models suggests a compelling link between inflammation, the central melanocortin system and cachexia. This review summarises the current evidence supporting the role of the melanocortin 4 (MC4) receptor subtype in cachexia, and discusses the development and use of small-molecule MC4 antagonists, which have proved to be effective in preventing the loss of lean body mass in animal models of cachexia. MC4 antagonists represent an attractive therapeutic approach for cachexia that may attenuate the loss of lean body mass in cachectic patients.
Acamprosate is indicated for the maintenance of abstinence from alcohol in patients with alcohol dependence who are abstinent at treatment initiation in combination with psychosocial support. Acamprosate is a synthetic taurine analogue that seems to act centrally to restore the normal activity of glutamatergic neurotransmission altered by chronic alcohol exposure. Over the past 15 years, the safety and efficacy of acamprosate for alcohol dependence have been well established in multiple double-blind, placebo-controlled trials. Overall, acamprosate has been consistently associated with greater beneficial effects on measures of alcohol abstinence compared with placebo. Specifically, patients treated with acamprosate achieve greater rates of complete abstinence, longer times to first drink and/or increased duration of cumulative abstinence when compared with placebo. Acamprosate received approval by the US FDA for the treatment of alcohol dependence in July 2004 and is currently prescribed in 28 countries.
Despite the current efficacious symptomatic approaches, the search is on for new therapies for Parkinson's disease that can control the cardinal symptoms of the disease (tremor, rigidity and bradykinesia), control/prevent motor complications induced by long-term levodopa, act on non-motor disease symptoms (dementia, dysautonomia, pain, insomnia, falls) and halt disease progression. Rasagiline is a monoamine oxidase-B inhibitor that has demonstrated efficacy against the cardinal symptoms of Parkinson's disease when used as monotherapy in early Parkinson's disease, and as an adjunct to levodopa in advanced disease stages. It reduces the duration and severity of poor symptom response episodes in fluctuating patients. Preliminary results allow discussion of putative effects of rasagiline on some non-motor signs and disease progression. This article outlines the evidence surrounding the efficacy and safety of rasagiline, and discusses its potential to address some of the currently unmet needs of Parkinson's disease therapy.
The neurotrophins brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) have been shown to promote survival and differentiation of midbrain dopaminergic (DAergic) neurons in vitro and in vivo. This is consistent with their expression and that of their cognate receptors, trkB and trkC, in the nigrostriatal system. Degeneration of DAergic neurons of the substantia nigra and alpha-synuclein-positive aggregates in the remaining substantia nigra (SN) neurons are hallmarks of Parkinson's disease (PD). Reduced expression of BDNF has been reported in the SN from PD patients. Moreover, mutations in the BDNF gene have been found to play a role in the development of familial PD. We show now that haploinsufficiencies of the neurotrophin receptors trkB and/or trkC cause a reduction in numbers of SN neurons in aged (21-23 month old) mice, which is accompanied by a reduced density in striatal tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactive (TH-ir) fibers. These aged mutant mice, in contrast to wild-type littermates, display an accumulation of alpha-synuclein in the remaining TH-positive neurons of the SN. We conclude that impairment in trkB and/or trkC signaling induces a phenotype in the aged SN, which includes two hallmarks of PD, losses of TH positive neurons and axons along with massive neuronal deposits of alpha-synuclein.
The fast progress in neuroscience opens up unprecedented opportunities of research and intervention. Due to their far-reaching medical, social and anthropological implications they raise new ethical issues regarding their goals and legitimacy. The &quot;neuroethical evaluative matrix&quot;, which is presented in this article, provides an ethical orientation in neuroscientific research and clinical interventions. Its practicability is demonstrated for the following central neuroethical fields: neuroscientific research, neural grafting, psychopharmacology, neuroimaging, neuro- and psychosurgery, and allocation in neuroscience. It will turn out that the neuroethical matrix provides a systematic and practical possibility to obtain a normative reference frame in neuroscience and neurology.
In this study we investigated the effect of insulin on neuronal viability and antioxidant defense mechanisms upon ascorbate/Fe2+-induced oxidative stress, using cultured cortical neurons. Insulin (0.1 and 10 microM) prevented the decrease in neuronal viability mediated by oxidative stress, decreasing both necrotic and apoptotic cell death. Moreover, insulin inhibited ascorbate/Fe2+-mediated lipid and protein oxidation, thus decreasing neuronal oxidative stress. Increased 4-hydroxynonenal (4-HNE) adducts on GLUT3 glucose transporters upon exposure to ascorbate/Fe2+ were also prevented by insulin, suggesting that this peptide can interfere with glucose metabolism. We further analyzed the influence of insulin on antioxidant defense mechanisms in the cortical neurons. Oxidative stress-induced decreases in intracellular uric acid and GSH/GSSG levels were largely prevented upon treatment with insulin. Inhibition of phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase (PI-3K) or mitogen-induced extracellular kinase (MEK) reversed the effect of insulin on uric acid and GSH/GSSG, suggesting the activation of insulin-mediated signaling pathways. Moreover, insulin stimulated glutathione reductase (GRed) and inhibited glutathione peroxidase (GPx) activities under oxidative stress conditions, further supporting that insulin neuroprotection was related to the modulation of the glutathione redox cycle. Thus, insulin may be useful in preventing oxidative stress-mediated injury that occurs in several neurodegenerative disorders.
Although the cause of dopaminergic cell death in Parkinson's disease (PD) remains unknown, oxidative stress has been strongly implicated. Because of their ability to combat oxidative stress, diet derived phenolic compounds continue to be considered as potential agents for long-term use in PD. This study was aimed at investigating whether the natural phenolic compounds curcumin, naringenin, quercetin, fisetin can be neuroprotective in the 6-OHDA model of PD. Unilateral infusion of 6-OHDA into the medial forebrain bundle produced a significant loss of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-positive cells in the substantia nigra (SN) as well as a decreased of dopamine (DA) content in the striata in the vehicle-treated animals. Rats pretreated with curcumin or naringenin showed a clear protection of the number of TH-positive cells in the SN and DA levels in the striata. However, neither pretreatment with quercetin nor fisetin had any effects on TH-positive cells or DA levels. The ability of curcumin and naringenin to exhibit neuroprotection in the 6-OHDA model of PD may be related to their antioxidant capabilities and their capability to penetrate into the brain.
Maturation of the reproductive system during puberty results in elevated levels of gonadal steroid hormones. These hormones sculpt neural circuits during adolescence, a time of dramatic rewiring of the nervous system. Here, we review the evidence that steroid-dependent organization of the adolescent brain programs a variety of adult behaviors in animals and humans. Converging lines of evidence indicate that adolescence may be a sensitive period for steroid-dependent brain organization and that variation in the timing of interactions between the hormones of puberty and the adolescent brain leads to individual differences in adult behavior and risk of sex-biased psychopathologies.
This review will examine our current knowledge of a fundamental property of CRH neuroendocrine neurons: how the major endpoint of the HPA axis--adrenal glucocorticoids--interacts with the mechanisms controlling the expression of the genes that encode ACTH secretogogues. A great deal of work over the past 25 years has led to the notion that this question has an ostensibly simple answer: glucocorticoids inhibit peptide gene expression using &quot;negative feedback&quot; at the CRH neuron and elsewhere. However, closely examining how glucocorticoids act in different physiological circumstances reveals a much more complex set of answers, particularly if we consider how the processes that control peptide synthesis and release are coupled. Out of this examination emerges a more flexible and complex framework for examining the integrative mechanisms controlling the CRH neuron. Although we will mostly focus on the Crh gene, relevant aspects of the vasopressin (Avp) and pro-enkephalin (pEnk) gene regulatory mechanisms will also be discussed.
The haemodynamic changes that take place in migraine are reviewed focusing on cerebral blood flow (CBF) data measured with different techniques in patients suffering from migraine with and without aura during the different phases of attacks and in interictal periods. Special attention is paid to the factors underpinning the conflicting cerebral blood flow data and to pathophysiological implications of the CBF changes detected in migraineurs.

We studied the reliability of different measures of the visual contribution to postural steadiness by recording the postural sway during standing with eyes open (EO) or eyes closed (EC). The COP trajectory was recorded in 21 subjects aged 42-61 standing on a firm or foam support. The improvement of postural steadiness due to vision was measured with a higher reliability (i.e. lower intra- and inter-subject variabilities) with the sway velocity V, than with the position RMS. Due to the increase of the variability of V and RMS with their own mean values, we quantified the visual contribution to posture by the stabilization ratio (SR), based on a logarithm transform of V or RMS. As compared to the Romberg quotient (EC/EO), SR improved the reliability of the measurement of the visual contribution to posture within individuals, across subjects, and even across different studies in the literature. Our method led to decrease the inter-subject coefficient of variation of this measurement to about 25%, using a foam support. It leads to a similar accuracy in binocular and monocular vision, and it also applies to the quantification of other non-visual sensory contributions to posture.
The ability to adjust skin darkness to the background is a common phenomenon in fish. The hormone alpha-melanophore-stimulating hormone (alphaMSH) enhances skin darkening. In Mozambique tilapia, Oreochromis mossambicus L., alphaMSH acts as a corticotropic hormone during adaptation to water with a low pH, in addition to its role in skin colouration. In the current study, we investigated the responses of this fish to these two environmental challenges when it is exposed to both simultaneously. The skin darkening of tilapia on a black background and the lightening on grey and white backgrounds are compromised in water with a low pH, indicating that the two vastly different processes both rely on alphaMSH-regulatory mechanisms. If the water is acidified after 25 days of undisturbed background adaptation, fish showed a transient pigmentation change but recovered after two days and continued the adaptation of their skin darkness to match the background. Black backgrounds are experienced by tilapia as more stressful than grey or white backgrounds both in neutral and in low pH water. A decrease of water pH from 7.8 to 4.5 applied over a two-day period was not experienced as stressful when combined with background adaptation, based on unchanged plasma pH and plasma alphaMSH, and Na levels. However, when water pH was lowered after 25 days of undisturbed background adaptation, particularly alphaMSH levels increased chronically. In these fish, plasma pH and Na levels had decreased, indicating a reduced capacity to maintain ion-homeostasis, implicating that the fish indeed experience stress. We conclude that simultaneous exposure to these two types of stressor has a lower impact on the physiology of tilapia than subsequent exposure to the stressors.
The broad host cell range and high expression levels of transgenes are features that have made alphaviruses attractive for gene expression studies and gene therapy applications. Particularly, Semliki Forest virus vectors have been applied for large-scale production of recombinant membrane proteins for drug screening purposes and structural biology studies. The high preference of expression in neuronal cells has led to many applications of alphavirus vectors in neuroscience. Studies on localization and transport of recombinant proteins as well as electrophysiological recording have become feasible in primary cultures of neurons and hippocampal slice cultures. Alphaviruses have frequently been used as vaccine vectors for expression of antigens against viruses and tumors. Administration of recombinant viral particles, DNA plasmids or in vitro transcribed RNA has resulted in protection against challenges against lethal viruses and tumors in rodent and primate models. Intratumoral injections of alphavirus vectors expressing reporter and immunostimulatory genes have led to significant tumor regression in mouse models. Modifications of the viral envelope structure have generated targeted Sindbis virus vectors. Astonishingly, conventional Sindbis vectors have demonstrated tumor-specific targeting in animal models due to the high density of laminin receptors on cancer cells. Moreover, encaspulation of Semliki Forest virus vectors in liposomes has provided a means of achieving tumor targeting and protection against the host immune response. Much attention has also been given to the engineering of novel mutant alphavirus vectors with properties such as reduced cytotoxicity, prolonged duration of transgene expression and improved survival of host cells.
Neurogenesis is crucial for brain formation and continues to take place in certain regions of the postnatal brain including the subgranular zone (SGZ) of the hippocampal dentate gyrus (DG). Pax6 transcription factor is a key player for patterning the brain and promoting embryonic neurogenesis, and is also expressed in the SGZ. In the DG of wild-type rats, more than 90% of total BrdU-incorporated cells expressed Pax6 at 30 min time point after BrdU injection. Moreover, approximately 60% of Pax6+ cells in the SGZ exhibited as GFAP+ cells with a radial glial phenotype and about 30% of Pax6+ cells exhibited as PSA-NCAM+ cells in clusters. From BrdU labeling for 3 days, we found that cell proliferation was 30% decreased at postnatal stages in Pax6-deficient rSey2/+ rat. BrdU pulse/chase experiments combined with marker staining revealed that PSA-NCAM+ late progenitor cells increased at the expense of GFAP+ early progenitors in rSey2/+ rat. Furthermore, expression of Wnt ligands in the SGZ was markedly reduced in rSey2/+ rat. Taken all together, an appropriate dosage of Pax6 is essential for production and maintenance of the GFAP+ early progenitor cells in the postnatal hippocampal neurogenesis.
Mammalian mitochondrial genomes are organized in a conserved and extremely compact manner, encoding molecules that play a vital role in oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) and carry out a number of other important biological functions. A large-scale screening of the normalized mitochondrial gene expression profiles generated from publicly available mammalian serial analysis of gene expression (SAGE) datasets (over 17.7 millions of tags) was performed in this study. Acquired SAGE libraries represent an extensive range of human, mouse, rat, bovine and swine cell and tissue samples (normal and pathological) in a variety of conditions. Using a straightforward in silico algorithm, variations in total mitochondrial gene expression, as well as in the expression of individual genes encoded by mitochondrial genomes are addressed, and common patterns in the species- and tissue-specific mitochondrial gene expression profiles are discussed.
Astrocyte proliferation is tightly controlled during development and in the adult nervous system. In the present study, we find that a high-molecular-weight (MW) form of the glycosaminoglycan hyaluronan (HA) is found in rat spinal cord tissue and becomes degraded soon after traumatic spinal cord injury. Newly synthesized HA accumulates in injured spinal cord as gliosis proceeds, such that high-MW HA becomes overabundant in the extracellular matrix surrounding glial scars after 1 month. Injection of hyaluronidase, which degrades HA, into normal spinal cord tissue results in increased numbers of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-positive cells that also express the nuclear proliferation marker Ki-67, suggesting that HA degradation promotes astrocyte proliferation. In agreement with this observation, adding high- but not low-MW HA to proliferating astrocytes in vitro inhibits cell growth, while treating confluent, quiescent astrocyte cultures with hyaluronidase induces astrocyte proliferation. Collectively, these data indicate that high-MW HA maintains astrocytes in a state of quiescence, and that degradation of HA following CNS injury relieves growth inhibition, resulting in increased astrocyte proliferation.
Heparan sulfate (HS) binds with various proteins including growth factors, morphogens, and extracellular matrix molecules to regulate their biological functions. These regulatory interactions are considered to be dependent on the structure of HS, which is determined by HS sulfotransferases. To gain insights into the functions of HS sulfotransferases in the development of the nervous system, we examined the expression of these enzymes (3-O-sulfotransferase-1 [3-OST-1], -2, -4; 6-OST-1, -2, -3; and N-deacetylase /N-sulfotransferase-1 [NDST-1], -2, -3) by in situ hybridization and real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). The expression of these genes was spatiotemporally regulated. In the E16 cerebrum, the expression of these genes showed two patterns: (1) selective expression at cortical plate (CP) and ventricular zone (VZ) and (2) wider expression by the cells in the marginal zone (MZ), CP, subplate (SP), and VZ. At P1, most genes showed similar expression patterns, but after P7, these genes were expressed differentially in a layer-specific manner. In the P1 cerebellum, the external granule cell layer (EGL) expressed most genes, the expressions of which were down-regulated at P7. In contrast, Purkinje cells began to express many of these genes after P7. These complex expression patterns suggest that the structure of HS is altered spatiotemporally for regulating various biological activities in the developing brain including the proliferation of neuronal progenitors, extension of axons, and formation of dendrites. We discuss possible functional roles of these sulfotransferases in the signaling of several HS-binding proteins such as fibroblast growth factors, slit, netrin, and sonic hedgehog.


The purpose of this project was to develop a system that would allow ambulatory pediatric nurses to describe their practice and to develop in their role as nurses. Patricia Benner's novice to expert philosophy has been used to describe the practice of nurses in many specialties; however, it has not been applied to ambulatory pediatric practice. A group of nurses at Children's Hospital of Wisconsin used Benner's philosophy to generate behaviors that evolved from the novice to the expert within the domains of nursing practice outlined in the ambulatory nurse job description. This tool has been implemented as part of the performance review process and is given to new nurses on orientation as a framework for nurses' professional development.
The relationship between hyperlipidemia and sensorineural hearing loss remains obscure. In this study, we elucidate for the first time the cochlear morphological and auditory alterations and their relationships with hyperlipidemia, atherosclerosis, and endothelial dysfunction in apolipoprotein-E knockout (ApoE-KO) mice. Ten-week-old ApoE-KO mice were fed either atherosclerotic diet (1.25% cholesterol) or normal diet. Wild type mice (C57BL/6J) served as normal controls. Fourteen weeks later, marked hyperlipidemia, atherosclerosis, endothelial dysfunction, and hearing impairment, especially in the high frequencies, had developed in ApoE-KO mice as compared with C57BL/6J mice (P&lt;0.001). A high positive correlation between hearing loss and the extent of atherosclerosis and plasma total cholesterol levels was found. Hearing loss, especially at high frequencies, was detected in all ApoE-KO mice. Hair cell loss mainly at the base turn, thickening of vascular intima, and lumen stenosis of the spiral modiolar artery (SMA) in cochlea were also found; these histological changes were exacerbated by the atherosclerotic diet. Furthermore, endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) in aortic wall and cochlea was distinctly reduced in ApoE-KO mice. These results demonstrate that hyperlipidemia and atherosclerosis can induce alterations in cochlear morphology and function. The stenosis of SMA, which may cause cochlear ischemia and hypoxia, endothelial dysfunction, and low eNOS activity, may contribute to hearing loss.
Benzodiazepines (Bzd) are known to interact with GABAergic inhibitory neurotransmission. Previous research on their effect on human auditory efferent pathways--through evoked otoacoustic emissions suppression by contralateral acoustic stimulation (CAS)--indicated a decrease in medial olivocochlear (MOC) efferent system inhibitory activity, after oral intake of oxazepam--representative of the Bzd drug class. To date, this pharmacological effect was only assessed in the right ear. Since a leftward asymmetry of Bzd receptors localization in human auditory cortex has been described recently, we explored in this study the hypothesis of an asymmetrical action of Bzd on MOC efferent functioning. The results revealed a significant difference of Bzd effect probing the right ear versus the left ear, with CAS-induced suppression being less effective in the right than left ear after oxazepam intake. This finding raises the question of possible neurochemical left-right asymmetry in the descending auditory pathways. The potential localization of this asymmetry is discussed.
The cause of spasmodic dysphonia, a dystonic disorder of the larynx, remains unclear. Recently, TAFII250, TATA-box binding protein associated factor, was suggested to be involved in dystonia parkinsonism. There is a possibility that TAFII250 is involved in spasmodic dysphonia, but little information is available about the expression of TAFII250 in the laryngeal nervous system. In this study, we investigated the localization of TAFII250 protein in the rat laryngeal nervous system by immunohistochemistry. TAFII250-immunoreactivity was detected in the nodose ganglion and superior cervical ganglion. In these nuclei, TAFII250 was localized in the nucleus of NeuroTrace-positive neurons but not in GFAP-positive glial cells. No positive cells were detected in the motor and parasympathetic nervous system. TAFII250-immunoreactivity was sustained between 3 and 7 days after vagotomy, but at 14 days expression was down-regulated in the distal part of the nodose ganglion. These findings suggest that TAFII250 plays an important role in the laryngeal innervation of the sensory and sympathetic nervous systems.
Neural mechanisms that integrate posture with movement are widespread throughout the central nervous system (CNS), and they are recruited in patterns that are both task- and context-dependent. Scientists from several countries who were born in the 19th century provided essential groundwork for these modern-day concepts. Here, the focus is on three of this group with each selected for a somewhat different reason. Charles Sherrington (1857-1952) had innumerable contributions that were certainly needed in the subsequent study of posture and movement: inhibition as an active coordinative mechanism, the functional anatomy of spinal cord-muscle connectivity, and helping set the stage for modern work on the sensorimotor cortex and the corticospinal tract. Sadly, however, by not championing the work of his trainee and collaborator, Thomas Graham Brown (1882-1965), he delayed progress on two key motor control mechanisms: central programming and pattern generation. Walter Hess (1881-1973), a self-taught experimentalist, is now best known for his work on CNS coordination of autonomic (visceral) and emotional behavior. His contributions to posture and movement, however, were also far-reaching: the coordination of eye movements and integration of goal-directed and &quot;framework&quot; (anticipatory set) motor behavior. Nikolai Bernstein (1896-1966), the quintessence of an interdisciplinary, self-taught movement neuroscientist, made far-reaching contributions that were barely recognized by Western workers prior to the 1960s. Today, he is widely praised for showing that the CNS's hierarchy of control mechanisms for posture and movement is organized hand-in-hand with distributed and parallel processing, with all three subject to evolutionary pressures. He also made important observations, like those of several previous workers, on the goal focus of voluntary movements. The contributions of Sherrington, Hess, and Bernstein are enduring. They prompt thought on the philosophical axioms that appear to have driven their research, and the continual need for emphasis on interdisciplinary, comparative, and transnational approaches to advance movement neuroscience.
The supplementary motor area (SMA) is thought to play in important role in the preparation and organisation of voluntary movement. It has long been known that cortical activity begins to increase up to 2s prior to voluntary self-initiated movement. This increasing premovement activity measured in EEG is known as the Bereitschaftspotential or readiness potential. Modern functional brain imaging methods, using event-related and time-resolved functional MRI techniques, are beginning to reveal the role of the SMA, and in particular the more anterior pre-SMA, in premovement activity associated with the readiness for action. In this paper we review recent studies using event-related time-resolved fMRI methods to examine the time-course of activation changes within the SMA throughout the preparation, readiness and execution of action. These studies suggest that the pre-SMA plays a common role in encoding or representing actions prior to our own voluntary self-initiated movements, during motor imagery, and from the observation of others' actions. We suggest that the pre-SMA generates and encodes motor representations which are then maintained in readiness for action.
The analysis of APC and MYH mutations in adenomatous polyposis coli patients should provide clues about the genetic heterogeneity of the syndrome in human populations. The entire coding region and intron-exon borders of the APC and MYH genes were analyzed in 60 unrelated Italian adenomatous polyposis coli patients. APC analysis revealed 26 point mutations leading to premature termination, one missense variant and one deletion spanning the entire coding region in 32 unrelated patients. Novel truncating point mutations included c.1176_1177insT (p.His393_PhefsX396), c.1354_1355del (p.Val452_SerfsX458), c.2684C&gt;A (p.Ser895X), c.2711_2712del (p.Arg904_LysfsX910), c.2758_2759del (p.Asp920_CysfsX922), c.4192_4193del (p.Ser1398_SerfsX1407), c.4717G&gt;T (p.Glu1573X) and a novel cryptic APC exon 6 splice site. MYH analysis revealed nine different germline variants in nine patients, of whom five were homozygotes or compound heterozygotes. The mutations included 4 novel MYH missense variants (c.692G&gt;A, p.Arg231His; c.778C&gt;T, p.Arg260Trp; c.1121T&gt;C, p.Leu374Pro; and c.1234C&gt;T, p.Arg412Cys) affecting conserved amino acid residues in the ENDO3c or NUDIX domains of the protein and one novel synonymous change (c.672C&gt;T, p.Asn224Asn). Genotype-phenotype correlations were found in carriers of APC mutations but not in carriers of biallelic MYH mutations, except for a negative correlation with low number of polyps. A distinctive characteristic of patients negative for APC and MYH mutations was a significantly (p&lt;0.0001) older age at diagnosis compared to patients with APC mutations. Moreover, the proportion of cases with an attenuated polyposis phenotype was higher (p = 0.0008) among patients negative for APC and MYH mutations than among carriers of APC or biallelic MYH mutations.

Pulsatile arterial compression in the retro-olivary sulcus along the surface of the ventrolateral medulla has been postulated as a mechanism in both essential hypertension and diabetes. The objective of this study was to test the independent effect of arterial compression in the retro-olivary sulcus on each of these diseases, using separate logistic regression models to control for other known risk factors. Study design was case-control. The study population consisted of 147 consecutive patients treated for neurological conditions requiring MRI of the posterior cranial fossa. Information on essential hypertension, diabetes, and risk factors for each disease was abstracted from medical records. Presence of arterial compression was determined by blinded review of magnetic resonance images. In the essential hypertension analysis, odds of arterial compression among hypertensive patients were 2.99-times the odds among normotensive subjects (P=0.04), controlling for hypertension risk factors such as age, body mass index, race, diabetes, and family history of hypertension. Of compressed hypertensive subjects, 56% were compressed on the left and 44% were compressed on the right. In the diabetes analysis, odds of arterial compression among diabetic subjects were 1.14-times the odds among nondiabetic subjects (P=0.83). Of compressed diabetic subjects, 60% were compressed on the left, and 40% were compressed on the right. Results suggest that arterial compression of the retro-olivary sulcus may be an independent risk factor for essential hypertension in this population, supporting the postulate for a treatable (with microvascular decompression) neural mechanism for essential hypertension. However, in the diabetic population, the slight increase in the odds of arterial compression was not significant.

Research in the field of neurosciences and genetics has given us great insight into the understanding of learning and behavior and changes in the brain in response to experience. It is seen that brain is dynamically changing throughout life and is capable of learning at any time. Critical periods of neuroplasticity for various streams of development are also better understood. Technological advances in non invasive imaging techniques and advances in molecular genetics have helped us understand the basis of many developmental disorders which may help in planning effective intervention strategies.
Speech recognition and cognitive functions important for speech understanding were evaluated by objective measures and by scores of perceived effort, with and without hearing aids. The tests were performed in silence, and with background conditions of speech spectrum random noise and ordinary speech. One young and one elderly group of twelve hearing-impaired subjects each participated. Hearing aid use improved speech recognition in silence (7 dB) and in the condition with speech as background (2.5 dB S/N), but did not change the perceived effort scores. In the cognitive tests no hearing aid benefit was seen in objective measures, while there was an effect of hearing aid use in scores of perceived effort, subjects reported less effort. There were no age effects on hearing aid benefit. In conclusion, hearing aid use may result in reduced effort in listening tasks that is not associated with improvement in objective scores.
Presented are results relevant to extending the utility of the auditory steady-state response (ASSR) in threshold estimation at high-frequency carriers and to the accuracy of thresholds estimated using modulation frequencies near 40 versus 80 Hz. Initially, efforts were directed at confirming various findings reported in the literature apropos effects of several basic ASSR parameters. Results supplement others' observations suggesting that ASSR detection limits overestimate behavioral thresholds for conventional audiometric (carrier) frequencies from 500 to 4000 Hz. Further investigation revealed even greater errors of threshold estimates for 8000 and 12000 Hz, by about 14 and 22 dB on average, respectively. Although suggesting high-frequency ASSR testing to be efficacious, technical advances and additional work is needed to establish clinical utility. Comparison of effects of modulation frequency suggested ASSR thresholds with 40 Hz modulation to fall closer to behavioral threshold than those estimated at 80 Hz. Consequently, when circumstances permit, 40 Hz ASSR testing may be the method of choice (e.g. in the assessment of malingers, who may be tested awake/alert).
In the rodent central nervous system, the region of the cortex that responds to facial whisker stimulation is anatomically segregated into discrete regions called barrels. Each barrel is made up of layer IV cortical neurons that receive input from a separate whisker via innervation from the thalamus. It has been shown that neurotrophins play important roles in the development and plasticity of thalamic axon innervation into the visual and retrosplenial cortex. We now extend those findings to the investigation of the role of neurotrophin signaling in barrel cortex formation. We show that the neurotrophin receptor TrkB is expressed in the thalamus and cortex during the time of cortical innervation. The two TrkB ligands, brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and neurotrophin-4 (NT-4), are expressed in the cortex at this time. Mice lacking TrkB demonstrate a developmental delay in the segregation of thalamic axons within barrels. In TrkB mutants, thalamic axons are abnormally uniform within layer IV of the cortex at postnatal day 4 compared to their control littermates, but show clear segregation into barrels 2 days later. This phenotype is recapitulated in BDNF mutant mice, but not in NT-4 mutant mice. These results demonstrate that BDNF is the sole TrkB ligand responsible for this phenotype. Analysis of conditional knockout mice that lack TrkB within the cortex, and not the thalamus, does not show a delay in thalamic axon segregation. These results indicate that TrkB expression in thalamic axons is important for the appropriate timing of barrel cortex development.
With various patterns of whisker deafferentation, C3 whisker stimulation produced divergently shaped metabolic barrel representations in layer IV of the primary somatosensory cortex. Whisker deafferentation results in functional and structural reorganization of the barrels in the primary somatosensory cortex. The present study examines the alteration of the metabolic barrel representations in layer IV with various configurations of selective whisker deafferentation in neonates, using [14C]2-deoxyglucose autoradiography. The deafferentation was produced by unilateral ablation of whiskers, leaving certain follicles intact. Configurations of intact follicles included: (I) row C follicles; (II) B3, C3, and D3 follicles; (III) B3, B4, C3, and C4 follicles; (IV) C2, C3, D2, and D3 follicles. The metabolic C3 barrel representations in layer IV after the deafferentations were found to have expanded only toward the barrel sites in which the corresponding whiskers were ablated, with no expansion toward the neighboring barrels. Expansion toward row D was significantly more pronounced than expansion toward row B, and expansion toward the C2 barrel was significantly more pronounced than expansion toward the C4 barrel. From these results, it can be inferred that asymmetric intrinsic structural connections are reflected in the functional metabolic barrel representation under the condition of neural plasticity in the barrel cortex following whisker deafferentation.
In this study, we investigated the effect of 1,25(OH)2D3 on proteinuria and on the alteration of slit diaphragm-associated proteins induced by anti-Thy 1.1 in Wistar rats. Four groups of animals were studied: group I, anti-Thy 1.1 treated rats; group II, anti-Thy1.1 treated group that at day 2, after the onset of overt proteinuria, started the treatment with 1,25(OH)2D3; group III, normal control rats injected with vehicle alone; group IV, rats that received only 1,25(OH)2D3. At day 2, in group I and II, before the administration of 1,25(OH)2D3, protein excretion was significantly increased when compared to controls. Overt proteinuria was maintained until day 14 in group I whereas in group II protein excretion was significantly reduced from day 3 to day 14. Moreover, treatment with 1,25(OH)2D3 abrogated podocytes injury, detected as desmin expression and loss of nephrin and zonula occludens-1 (ZO-1), two slit diaphragm-associated proteins, and glomerular polyanion staining, that were observed in group I. In conclusion, these results suggest that 1,25(OH)2D3 administrated with a therapeutic regiment may revert proteinuria, counteracting glomerular podocyte injury.
Hypothalamic pituitary thyroid (HPT) axis abnormalities and alterations in major depression are reported in the literature. The aim of our study was to evaluate the effect of mirtazapine on thyroid hormones after 6 months of therapy in a sample of adult outpatients with Major Depression (MD). 17 adult outpatients (7 men, 10 women) with MD according to DSM-IV criteria, were included in the study. All participants had to have met criteria for a major depressive episode with a score of at least 15 on the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAM-D). Fasting venous blood samples were obtained for determination of serum Thyroid Stimulating Hormone (TSH), Free T3 (FT3) and Free T4 (FT4) concentrations both at baseline and after 6 months of therapy. HAM-D scores decreased significantly from the first day of treatment to the end of the treatment period (P&lt;0.001) and twelve patients (70.6%) were classified as responders. A significant increase in FT3 concentrations was found between baseline and the end of the treatment period (P=0.015), whereas FT4 concentrations decreased (P=0.046). No significant changes were found in TSH levels. Higher FT4 concentrations at baseline predicted higher HAM-D scorers both at baseline and at the end of the treatment period. Furthermore, higher FT3 concentrations at endpoint were found to be predictors of lower HAM-D scores. Long-term treatment with mirtazapine increases FT3 levels and decreases FT4 maybe involving the deiodination process of T4 into T3.

Relaxation techniques are part of the integrative medicine movement that is of growing importance for mainstream medicine. Complementary medical therapies have the potential to affect many physiological systems. Repeatedly studies show the benefits of the placebo response and relaxation techniques in the treatment of hypertension, cardiac arrhythmias, chronic pain, insomnia, anxiety and mild and moderate depression, premenstrual syndrome, and infertility. In itself, relaxation is characterized by a decreased metabolism, heart rate, blood pressure, and rate of breathing as well as an increase in skin temperature. Relaxation approaches, such as progressive muscle relaxation, autogenic training, meditation and biofeedback, are effective in lowering systolic and diastolic blood pressure in hypertensive patients by a significant margin. Given this association with changes in vascular tone, we have hypothesized that nitric oxide, a demonstrated vasodilator substance, contribute to physiological activity of relaxation approaches. We examined the scientific literature concerning the disorders noted earlier for their nitric oxide involvement in an attempt to provide a molecular rationale for the positive effects of relaxation approaches, which are physiological and cognitive process. We conclude that constitutive nitric oxide may crucially contribute to potentially beneficial outcomes and effects in diverse pathologies, exerting a global healing effect.
The author postulates that the dialogue between psychoanalysis and neuroscience is based on the assumption that both deal with virtual structures. They are two facets of the same noumenal reality, but with different phenomenal realities, and it is possible to use metapsychology as a lingua franca to develop communication between the two fields. In the second part of the paper, the author reflects on the results of recent neurophysiological research which seem to offer to psychoanalysis possibilities for finding an anatomical physiological correlate of some well-known psychic phenomena and mechanisms, such as imitation, introjection, identification, empathy, identity, mother child communication, learning, social communication and the analyst patient relationship. Particular neurons, called mirror neurons, have been located in the F5 area of baboons' brains. They are also present in man's brain within Broca's area. These neurons activate our motor system during both the performance of actions and the observation of actions performed by others giving rise to an automatic response, a sort of simulation or, rather, imitation, as the process is not intentional, but automatic and unaware, that is, unconscious.
One of the philosophical problems in neuroscience is seeing the trees before the forest. Indeed, it is essential to know how local events fit into the whole picture, but we must also look beyond correlations between stimuli and neural responses in one sensory nucleus. A lifelong dialogue between the environment and human brain begins at birth. Different environments enable different experiences; each experience is unique because culture gives it meaning. The eye tells the brain about each experience and the context in which it occurs. The brain records, transmits and recalls all events in their proper sequence and with attendant emotion. Culture gives behavior meaning. It helps us see beyond technique alone to better integrate diverse approaches to answering key questions about how the mind works.


When stimulated by tones, the ear appears to emit tones of its own, stimulus-frequency otoacoustic emissions (SFOAEs). SFOAEs were measured in 17 chinchillas and their group delays were compared with a place map of basilar-membrane vibration group delays measured at the characteristic frequency. The map is based on Wiener-kernel analysis of responses to noise of auditory-nerve fibers corroborated by measurements of vibrations at several basilar-membrane sites. SFOAE group delays were similar to, or shorter than, basilar-membrane group delays for frequencies &gt;4 kHz and &lt;4 kHz, respectively. Such short delays contradict the generally accepted &quot;theory of coherent reflection filtering&quot; [Zweig and Shera, J. Acoust. Soc. Am. 98, 2018-2047 (1995)], which predicts that the group delays of SFOAEs evoked by low-level tones approximately equal twice the basilar-membrane group delays. The results for frequencies higher than 4 kHz are compatible with hypotheses of SFOAE propagation to the stapes via acoustic waves or fluid coupling, or via reverse basilar membrane traveling waves with speeds corresponding to the signal-front delays, rather than the group delays, of the forward waves. The results for frequencies lower than 4 kHz cannot be explained by hypotheses based on waves propagating to and from their characteristic places in the cochlea.
The motor cortex of eight patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and nine control subjects was used in the study. Recent stereological tools, the disector and the rotator method, were applied to the motor cortex of patients with ALS and control subjects to obtain estimates of mean perikaryon volume, mean neuronal nuclear volume, total perikaryon volume and total neuronal nuclear volume. No significant differences were found in any of the estimates. In vivo proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy studies show a decrease in the concentration of neuronal markers. We expected to find changes in perikaryon and/or nuclei neuronal volume because the total neuron number is unchanged in ALS compared with control subjects. However, this was not the case; our results suggest that metabolic changes take place in the motor cortex of ALS patients without these concomitant anatomical changes.
Heme-regulated phosphodiesterase from Escherichia coli (DOS(Ec)) catalyzes the hydrolysis of cyclic AMP (cAMP) in vitro and is regulated by the redox state of the bound heme. Changes in the redox state result in alterations in the three-dimensional structure of the enzyme, which is then transmitted to the functional domain to switch catalysis on or off. Because DOS(Ec) was originally cloned from E. coli genomic DNA, it has not been known whether it is actually expressed in wild-type E. coli. In addition, the turnover number of DOS(Ec) using cAMP as a substrate is only 0.15 min(-1), which is relatively low for a physiologically relevant enzyme. In the present study, we demonstrated for the first time that the DOS(Ec) gene and protein are expressed in wild-type E. coli, especially under aerobic conditions. We also developed a DOS(Ec) gene knockout strain (Deltados). Interestingly, the knockout of dos caused excess accumulation of intracellular cAMP (26-fold higher than in the wild-type strain) under aerobic conditions, whereas accumulation of cAMP was not observed under anaerobic conditions. We also found differences in cell morphology and growth rate between the mutant cells and the wild-type strain. The changes in the knockout strain were partially complemented by introducing an expression plasmid for dos. Thus, the present study revealed that expression of DOS(Ec) is regulated according to environmental O2 availability at the transcriptional level and that the concentration of cAMP in cells is regulated by DOS(Ec) expression.
ADRP is associated with intracellular lipid droplets. We demonstrate the regulatory mechanism for ADRP expression in RAW264.7 macrophages. The ADRP mRNA expression was stimulated by PMA, and synergistically enhanced in association with its protein level in the presence of lipids. A proteasome inhibitor protected the protein from degradation under the lipid-free conditions. One of the possible sites of the PMA action was proved to be an Ets/AP-1 element in the promoter, since mutations of this site reduced the PMA-induced promoter activity, and ligation of this element led to a significant increase in the PMA-responsiveness of homologous or heterologous promoters. Mutations of this site diminished the synergistic effect on the promoter activity induced by PMA and oleic acid, suggesting a possible interaction between this site and the downstream PPARdelta site. EMSA revealed that PU.1 and AP-1 conjointly bound to this site. The juxtaposition of the two sequences was requisite for full activity, since spacer sequences between them decreased the PMA-induced activity. PI3 kinase inhibitor was found to reduce the PMA-induced mRNA expression and promoter activity in parallel with PU.1/AP-1 complex formation on EMSA. From these results, we concluded that the Ets/AP-1 site is an important cis-acting element that regulates the ADRP gene expression in macrophages.
The ability to measure the forces exerted in vivo on tendons and, consequently, the forces produced by muscles on tendons, offers a unique opportunity to investigate questions in disciplines as varied as physiology, biomechanics, orthopaedics and neuroscience. Until now, tendon loads could be assessed directly only by means of invasive sensors implanted within or attached to these collagenous structures. This study shows that the forces acting on tendons can be measured, in a non-invasive way, from the analysis of the propagation of an acoustic wave. Using the equine superficial digital flexor tendon as a model, it is demonstrated that the velocity of an ultrasonic wave propagating along the main axis of a tendon increases with the force applied to this tendon. Furthermore, we show that this velocity measurement can be performed even in the presence of skin overlying the tendon. To validate this measurement technique in vivo, the ultrasonic velocity plots obtained in the Achilles tendon at the walk were compared to the loads plots reported by other authors using invasive transducers.
The aim of the present work was to study potential disturbances in metabolism and interactions between neurons and glia in the lithium-pilocarpine model of temporal lobe epilepsy. Rats chronically epileptic for 1 month received [1-(13)C]glucose, a substrate for neurons and astrocytes, and [1,2-(13)C]acetate, a substrate for astrocytes only. Analyses of extracts from cerebral cortex, cerebellum, and hippocampal formation (hippocampus, amygdala, entorhinal, and piriform cortices) were performed using (13)C and (1)H nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy and HPLC. In the hippocampal formation of epileptic rats, levels of glutamate, aspartate, N-acetyl aspartate, adenosine triphosphate plus adenosine diphosphate and glutathione were decreased. In all regions studied, labeling from [1,2-(13)C]acetate was similar in control and epileptic rats, indicating normal astrocytic metabolism. However, labeling of glutamate, GABA, aspartate, and alanine from [1-(13)C]glucose was decreased in all areas possibly reflecting neuronal loss. The labeling of glutamine from [1-(13)C]glucose was decreased in cerebral cortex and cerebellum and unchanged in hippocampal formation. In conclusion, no changes were detected in glial-neuronal interactions in the hippocampal formation while in cortex and cerebellum the flow of glutamate to astrocytes was decreased, indicating a disturbed glutamate-glutamine cycle. This is, to our knowledge, the first study showing that metabolic disturbances are confined to neurons inside the epileptic circuit.
Nix, a hypoxia-sensitive member of the Bcl-2 family, is upregulated at the mRNA level during hypoxia through induction of a hypoxia-inducible factor-1 alpha (HIF-1 alpha) response element in its promoter sequence. However, the mechanism(s) regulating Nix protein activation remain unclear. The present studies examine Nix protein expression and subcellular distribution in response to hypoxic stimuli in vivo and in culture and to two disparate apoptotic stimuli in vitro. Upregulation and translocation of Nix (by day 5) in hypoxic/serum-deprived CHO-K1 cells, was preceded by Bax activation (by day 4) and caspase-3 processing (by day 2), suggesting that initiation of cell death in vitro is a Nix-independent event. In contrast, an early Nix response (upregulation and translocation to the mitochondria) was observed after 6 h of middle cerebral artery occlusion in the rat. Nix translocation was observed in the ipsilateral cortex and striatum before other histological (infarct development, neuronal loss, apoptotic body formation) or biochemical (Bax activation or caspase-3 cleavage) markers of damage were detected. While fundamental differences between hypoxia/ischaemia in culture and in vivo likely explain the different temporal profiles of Nix, Bax, and caspase-3 activation observed, these studies show that like Bax, mitochondrial accumulation is a common event during Nix activation. These are the first studies to show upregulation and translocation of Nix in the ischaemic brain and suggest Nix to be a novel therapeutic target in ischaemic research. Moreover, Nix upregulation in staurosporine-treated SH-SY5Y cells and dexamethasone-treated A1.1 cells supports a more generalized role for Nix in apoptotic cell death.
Brain hypothermia is at present the most effective neuroprotective treatment against brain ischemia in man. Ischemia induces a redistribution of proteins involved in synaptic functions, which is markedly diminished by therapeutic hypothermia (33 degrees C). Dendritic spines at excitatory synapses are motile and show both shape changes and rearrangement of synaptic proteins as a consequence of neuronal activity. We investigated the effect of reduced temperature (33 degrees C and 27 degrees C compared with 37 degrees C), on spine motility, length and morphology by studying the distribution of GFP-actin before, during and after induction of in vitro ischemia. Because high-concentration actin filaments are located inside spines, dissociated hippocampal neurons (7-11 DIV) from transgenic mice expressing GFP-actin were used in this study. The movement of the spines and the distribution of GFP-actin were recorded using time-lapse fluorescence microscopy. Under normal conditions rapid rearrangement of GFP-actin was seen in dendritic spines, indicating highly motile spines at 37 degrees C. Decreasing the incubation temperature to 33 degrees C or 27 degrees C, dramatically reduces actin dynamics (spine motility) by approximately 50% and 70%, respectively. In addition, the length of the spine shaft was reduced by 20%. We propose that decreasing the temperature from 37 degrees C to 33 degrees C during ischemia decreases the neuronal actin polymerization rate, which reduces spine calcium kinetics, disrupts detrimental cell signaling and protects neurons against damage.
HIV-1 Tat protein plays an important role in inducing monocyte infiltration into the brain and may alter the structure and functions of the blood-brain barrier (BBB). The BBB serves as a frontline defense system, protecting the central nervous system from infected monocytes entering the brain. Therefore, the aim of the present study was to examine the mechanisms of Tat effect on the integrity of the BBB in the mouse brain. Tat was injected into the right hippocampi of C57BL/6 mice and expression of tight junction protein zonula occludens-1 (ZO-1) was determined in control and treated mice. Tat administration resulted in decreased mRNA levels of ZO-1 and marked disruption of ZO-1 continuity. These changes were associated with accumulation of inflammatory cells in brain tissue of Tat-treated mice. Further experiments indicated that Tat-mediated alterations of redox-related signaling may be responsible for decreased ZO-1 expression. Specifically, injections with Tat resulted in activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK 1/2) and pretreatment with U 0126, a specific inhibitor of ERK kinase, effectively ameliorated the Tat-induced diminished ZO-1 levels. In addition, administration of N-acetylcysteine (NAC), a precursor of glutathione and a potent antioxidant, attenuated both Tat-induced ERK 1/2 activation and alterations in ZO-1 expression. These results indicate that Tat-induced oxidative stress can play an important role in affecting the integrity of the BBB through the ERK 1/2 pathway.
Reelin, an extracellular matrix protein has an important role in the migration, correct positioning and maturation of neurons during development. Though it is generally down-regulated in the postnatal period, expression of this large glycoprotein continues in the adult brain in some cell populations. In the present study, we examined the distribution of reelin-immunoreactivity (-ir) in the hippocampal formation of 9-month-old wildtype mice (WT). Then, reelin-ir in normal mice was compared to that of transgenic mice (APP/PS1) carrying mutated human APP and PS1 genes, which are linked to the familial form of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The APP/PS1 mice were additionally burdened with a second risk factor for AD, namely depletion of circulating gonadal hormones by ovariectomy (APP/PS1 + OVX). The analyses revealed that in adult WT reelin-ir is expressed by Cajal-Retzius cells and a subgroup of interneurons throughout the hippocampal formation. In addition, layer II projection neurons in the lateral entorhinal subfields are reelin-ir. Interestingly, ovariectomy decreases the number of reelin-ir cells in the hilus in WT mice, whereas AD-related genotype alone induces only a non-significant reduction. Unexpectedly, additional stress, e.g., depletion of gonadal hormones, does not aggravate the slight reduction in the reelin cell number in the APP/PS1 mice. We propose that the changes in normal reelin-ir are linked to disturbances in repair mechanisms in which APP/PS1 and gonadal hormones are involved and which are perturbed in neurodegenerative conditions, namely AD.
We describe the results of a retrospective study of floppy infants evaluated at the Children's Hospital of Winnipeg, a tertiary care children's facility. Cases were ascertained by a systematic search of clinical databases, hospital and electromyographic records for &quot;floppy&quot; infants age &lt; 1 year, referred over a period of 11 years (1990-2000). Eighty-nine infants, 42 female (47.2%) and 47 male (52.8%), were included in the study. A definitive diagnosis was established in 60 (67.4%) cases, in 24 cases (40%) on purely clinical grounds, whereas in 36 (60%) cases, additional investigations were necessary. Karyotype, molecular diagnostics, cranial imaging, and muscle and skin biopsy provided diagnostic information. Genetic disorders in 18 of 60 (20.2%), congenital or acquired disorders of the central nervous system in 22 of 60 (24.7%), and disorders of the lower motor unit in 9 of 60 (10.1%) contributed to the majority of diagnoses. Eight of 89 (8.9%) infants died in the first year, and 2 of 89 (2.6%) were on home ventilation. Of the 61 infants surviving beyond 12 months, 38 of 61 (62.3%) were found to be globally delayed, and only 30 of 61 (49.2%) achieved independent ambulation at their last clinical evaluation. Systematic evaluation of a floppy infant followed by careful selection of investigations (karyotype, DNA-based diagnostic tests, and cranial imaging) can maximize diagnostic yield.
Deficiency in docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), a brain-essential omega-3 fatty acid, is associated with cognitive decline. Here we report that, in cytokine-stressed human neural cells, DHA attenuates amyloid-beta (Abeta) secretion, an effect accompanied by the formation of NPD1, a novel, DHA-derived 10,17S-docosatriene. DHA and NPD1 were reduced in Alzheimer disease (AD) hippocampal cornu ammonis region 1, but not in the thalamus or occipital lobes from the same brains. The expression of key enzymes in NPD1 biosynthesis, cytosolic phospholipase A2 and 15-lipoxygenase, was altered in AD hippocampus. NPD1 repressed Abeta42-triggered activation of proinflammatory genes while upregulating the antiapoptotic genes encoding Bcl-2, Bcl-xl, and Bfl-1(A1). Soluble amyloid precursor protein-alpha stimulated NPD1 biosynthesis from DHA. These results indicate that NPD1 promotes brain cell survival via the induction of antiapoptotic and neuroprotective gene-expression programs that suppress Abeta42-induced neurotoxicity.

Twelve children, all boys, aged 4 to 7 years, with a diagnosis of autistic disorder and low concentrations of spinal 6R-l-erythro-5,6,7,8-tetrahydrobiopterin (tetrahydrobiopterin) were selected to participate in a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, crossover study. The children received a daily dose of 3 mg tetrahydrobiopterin per kilogram during 6 months alternating with placebo. Treatment-induced effects were assessed with the Childhood Autism Rating Scale every third month. The results showed small nonsignificant changes in the total scores of Childhood Autism Rating Scale after 3- and 6-month treatment. Post hoc analysis looking at the 3 core symptoms of autism, that is, social interaction, communication, and stereotyped behaviors, revealed a significant improvement of the social interaction score after 6 months of active treatment. In addition, a high positive correlation was found between response of the social interaction score and IQ. The results indicate a possible effect of tetrahydrobiopterin treatment.
To thoroughly investigate the phenomenon of atypical antipsychotic associated weight gain, a feeding laboratory paradigm was developed. This study is a randomized, double-blind, parallel group trial comparing the tolerability and effects of a two-week exposure to olanzapine, risperidone or placebo on weight, resting energy expenditure (REE), and eating behaviors in 48 healthy human subjects. Subjects were randomized to receive olanzapine, risperidone, or placebo and titrated over four days to 10 mg/d, or 4 mg/d, respectively. The mean dose at endpoint was 8.75 mg/day for the olanzapine group and 2.88 mg/d risperidone group. Weight changes were significantly different between groups at midpoint (F = 5.477, df = 2, 44, P = .0001). The olanzapine group demonstrated a significant increase in weight at midpoint (1.59 + 1.80 kg, P = .002) and endpoint (2.25 + 1.62 kg, P = .0001) compared to placebo and at endpoint compared to risperidone (1.05 + 1.15 kg, P = .015). Resting energy expenditures corrected for fat free mass did not reveal any differences between groups. Olanzapine subjects demonstrated significantly more dry mouth and sedation versus placebo while risperidone subjects experienced significantly more sedation, dry mouth, dizziness stuffy nose and restlessness than placebo and more dizziness and stuffy nose versus olanzapine subjects. Thus, a human feeding lab paradigm utilizing a brief exposure to atypical antipsychotics functions as a method to investigate pharmacologically induced weight gain.

Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reactions (qRT-PCR) have become the method of choice for rapid, sensitive, quantitative comparison of RNA transcript abundance. Useful data from this method depend on fitting data to theoretical curves that allow computation of mRNA levels. Calculating accurate mRNA levels requires important parameters such as reaction efficiency and the fractional cycle number at threshold (CT) to be used; however, many algorithms currently in use estimate these important parameters. Here we describe an objective method for quantifying qRT-PCR results using calculations based on the kinetics of individual PCR reactions without the need of the standard curve, independent of any assumptions or subjective judgments which allow direct calculation of efficiency and CT. We use a four-parameter logistic model to fit the raw fluorescence data as a function of PCR cycles to identify the exponential phase of the reaction. Next, we use a three-parameter simple exponent model to fit the exponential phase using an iterative nonlinear regression algorithm. Within the exponential portion of the curve, our technique automatically identifies candidate regression values using the P-value of regression and then uses a weighted average to compute a final efficiency for quantification. For CT determination, we chose the first positive second derivative maximum from the logistic model. This algorithm provides an objective and noise-resistant method for quantification of qRT-PCR results that is independent of the specific equipment used to perform PCR reactions.
Neurons can transmit information about sensory stimuli via their firing rate, spike latency, or by the occurrence of complex spike patterns. Identifying which aspects of the neural responses actually encode sensory information remains a fundamental question in neuroscience. Here we compared various approaches for estimating the information transmitted by neurons in auditory cortex in two very different experimental paradigms, one measuring spatial tuning and the other responses to complex natural stimuli. We demonstrate that, in both cases, spike counts and mean response times jointly carry essentially all the available information about the stimuli. Thus, in auditory cortex, whereas spike counts carry only partial information about stimulus identity or location, the additional availability of relatively coarse temporal information is sufficient in order to extract essentially all the sensory information available in the spike discharge pattern, at least for the relatively short stimuli (&lt;approximately 100 ms) commonly used in auditory research.
The rhythm created by spacing a series of brief tones in a regular pattern can be disguised by interleaving identical distractors at irregular intervals. The disguised rhythm can be unmasked if the distractors are allocated to a separate stream from the rhythm by integration with temporally overlapping captors. Listeners identified which of 2 rhythms was presented, and the accuracy and rated clarity of their judgment was used to estimate the fusion of the distractors and captors. The extent of fusion depended primarily on onset asynchrony and degree of temporal overlap. Harmonic relations had some influence, but only an extreme difference in spatial location was effective (dichotic presentation). Both preattentive and attentionally driven processes governed performance.
The ability to remember visual stimuli over a short delay period is limited by the small capacity of visual working memory (VWM). Here the authors investigate the role of learning in enhancing VWM. Participants saw 2 spatial arrays separated by a 1-s interval. The 2 arrays were identical except for 1 location. Participants had to detect the difference. Unknown to the participants, some spatial arrays would repeat once every dozen trials or so for up to 32 repetitions. Spatial VWM performance increased significantly when the same location changed across display repetitions, but not at all when different locations changed from one display repetition to another. The authors suggest that a major role of learning in VWM is to mediate which information gets retained, rather than to directly increase VWM capacity.
Lifting The Burden envisions a future world in which headache disorders are recognized everywhere as real, disabling and deserving of medical care to which all who need it have access without artificial barriers.
The distribution of P2X and P2Y receptor subtypes in upper lumbosacral cat dorsal root ganglia (DRG) has been investigated using immunohistochemistry. Intensity of immunoreactivity for six P2X receptors (P2X(5) receptors were immuno-negative) and the three P2Y receptors examined in cat DRG was in the order of P2Y(2) = P2Y(4)&gt;P2X(3)&gt;P2X(2) = P2X(7)&gt;P2X(6)&gt;P2X(1) = P2X(4)&gt;P2Y(1). P2X(3), P2Y(2), and P2Y(4) receptor polyclonal antibodies stained 33.8%, 35.3%, and 47.6% of DRG neurons, respectively. Most P2Y(2), P2X(1), P2X(3), P2X(4), and P2X(6) receptor staining was detected in small- and medium-diameter neurons. However, P2Y(4), P2X(2), and P2X(7) staining was present in large- and small-diameter neurons. Double-labeling immunohistochemistry showed that 90.8%, 32.1%, and 2.4% of P2X(3) receptor-positive neurons coexpressed IB(4), CGRP, and NF200, respectively; whereas 67.4%, 41.3%, and 39.1% of P2Y(4) receptor-positive neurons coexpressed IB(4), CGRP, and NF200, respectively. A total of 18.8%, 16.6%, and 63.5% of P2Y(2) receptor-positive neurons also stained for IB(4), CGRP, and NF200, respectively. Only 30% of DRG neurons in cat were P2X(3)-immunoreactive compared with 90% in rat and in mouse. A further difference was the low expression of P2Y(1) receptors in cat DRG neurons compared with more than 80% of the neurons in rat. Many small-diameter neurons were NF200-positive in cat, again differing from rat and mouse.
Transcriptional activation of germline (GL) promoters occurs through binding of NF-kappaB to three evolutionarily conserved sites within a CD40 response region in the human and mouse GL Igamma and Iepsilon promoters. Here we identify and characterize a novel NF-kappaB binding site (kappaB6) within the human GL Igamma1 promoter that plays an essential role in basal- and CD40-induced transcription. This site is adjacent to identified CREB/activating transcription factor (ATF) sites, present in the Igamma1 but not the Igamma3 promoter, which are important for the amplification of transcription. Our data suggest a cohesive protein complex regulating Igamma1 promoter activity because disruption of any individual NF-kappaB or CREB/ATF site markedly lowers the overall inducible activity of the promoter. In addition, alteration of helical phasing within the promoter indicates spatial orientation of CREB/ATF and NF-kappaB, proteins contributes directly to promoter activity. We found that CREB and p50 transactivators, as well as coactivator p300, interact in vivo with the Igamma1 promoter in the presence and absence of CD40 signaling in Ramos and primary B cells. However, the level of CREB and p300 binding differs as a consequence of activation in primary B cells. Furthermore, overexpression of p300, and not a mutant lacking acetyltransferase activity, significantly increases Igamma1 construct-specific transcription. Together these data support a model whereby CREB and multiple NF-kappaB complexes bind to the Igamma1 promoter and recruit p300. CD40 signals induce p300-dependent changes that result in optimal Igamma1 promoter activity.
In the clinic, obesity and anorexia constitute prevalent problems whose manifestations are encountered in virtually every field of medicine. However, as the command centre for regulating food intake and energy metabolism is located in the brain, the basic neuroscientist sees in the same disorders malfunctions of a model network for how integration of diverse sensory inputs leads to a coordinated behavioural, endocrine and autonomic response. The two approaches are not mutually exclusive; rather, much can be gained by combining both perspectives to understand the pathophysiology of over- and underweight. The present review summarizes recent advances in this field including the characterization of peripheral metabolic signals to the brain such as leptin, insulin, peptide YY, ghrelin and lipid mediators as well as the vagus nerve; signalling of the metabolic sensors in the brainstem and hypothalamus via, e.g. neuropeptide Y and melanocortin peptides; integration and coordination of brain-mediated responses to nutritional challenges; the organization of food intake in simple model organisms; the mechanisms underlying food reward and processing of the sensory and metabolic properties of food in the cerebral cortex; and the development of the central metabolic system, as well as its pathological regulation in cancer and infections. Finally, recent findings on the genetics of human obesity are summarized, as well as the potential for novel treatments of body weight disorders.
When rats are given access to a running-wheel in combination with food restriction, they will become hyperactive and decrease their food intake, a paradoxical phenomenon known as activity-based anorexia (ABA). Little is known about the regulation of the hypothalamic neuropeptides that are involved in the regulation of food intake and energy balance during the development of ABA. Therefore, rats were killed during the development of ABA, before they entered a state of severe starvation. Neuropeptide mRNA expression levels were analysed using quantitative real-time PCR on punches of separate hypothalamic nuclei. As is expected in a state of negative energy balance, expression levels of agouti-related protein (AgRP) and neuropeptide Y (NPY) were increased 5-fold in the arcuate nucleus (ARC) of food-restricted running ABA rats vs 2-fold in sedentary food-restricted controls. The co-regulated expression of AgRP and NPY strongly correlated with relative body weight and white adipose tissue mass. Arcuate expression of pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) and cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART) was reduced 2-fold in the ABA group. In second-order neurons of the lateral hypothalamic area (LHA), melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) mRNA expression was upregulated 2-fold in food-restricted running rats, but not in food-restricted sedentary controls. Prepro-orexin, CART and corticotropin-releasing hormone expression levels in the LHA and the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) were unchanged in both food-restricted groups. From this study it was concluded that during the development of ABA, neuropeptides in first-order neurons in the ARC and MCH in the LHA are regulated in an adequate response to negative energy balance, whereas expression levels of the other studied neuropeptides in secondary neurons of the LHA and PVN are unchanged and are probably regulated by factors other than energy status alone.
We report the use of chemically-functionalized water soluble single-walled carbon nanotube (SWNT) graft copolymers for modulation of outgrowth of neuronal processes. The graft copolymers were prepared by the functionalization of SWNTs with poly-m-aminobenzene sulphonic acid and polyethylene glycol. When added to the culturing medium, these functionalized water soluble SWNTs were able to increase the length of various neuronal processes.
In the central nervous system, transcription factor AP-2 family is one of the critical regulatory factors for neural gene expression and neuronal development. Several genes in the monoaminergic systems display AP-2 binding sites in regulatory regions. In addition, brainstem levels of transcription factor AP-2alpha and AP-2beta are positively correlated to monoamine measures in rat forebrain, suggesting a regulatory role of AP-2 also in the adult brain. Great changes in psychiatric phenotypes due to genetic factors are seldom the result of a single gene polymorphism. Recently, identification of combinations of candidate genes that are all linked to one disease or psychiatric phenotype has been discussed. The expression of these candidate genes might be regulated by the same transcription factors, e.g. AP-2. Recent data on transcription factor AP-2 family in relation to monoaminergic functions are described in this paper. Transcription factor AP-2beta genotype has been studied in relation to personality, platelet monoamine oxidase (MAO) activity, CSF-levels of monoamine metabolites, binge-eating disorder, premenstrual dysphoric disorder, and schizophrenia. Furthermore, the involvement of AP-2 in the molecular mechanism of antidepressant drugs is discussed. Altogether, this paper discusses data supporting a notion that the transcription factor AP-2 family is involved in the regulation of the monoaminergic systems both pre- and postnatally, and, therefore, might be involved in the pathophysiology of neuropsychiatric disorders.
In neurons, phospholipase A2 (PLA2) plays a central role in the regulation of membrane phospholipid metabolism. We have addressed the pharmacological modulation of PLA2 in primary cultures of rat cortical neurons. Inhibition curves were obtained in 4 day-in-culture neurons treated for 30 minutes with either the dual PLA2 inhibitor methyl arachidonyl fluorophosphonate (MAFP), or the iPLA2 inhibitor bromoenol lactone (BEL). Full inhibition was achieved with 100 and 250 microM of MAFP, or 10 and 20 microM of BEL. Conversely, a dose-dependent activation of PLA2 was obtained with 10-20 microg/ml of melitin. PLA2 inhibition with MAFP or BEL was not acutely toxic for cultured neurons. However, sustained inhibition of the enzyme precluded the development of neurites, and resulted in long-term loss of neuronal viability. We present a model of pharmacological challenge of PLA2 in vitro, which can be further used to address the involvement of the enzyme in neurodevelopment and neurodegeneration models.
AMPA (alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid) receptors play key roles in excitatory synaptic transmission and synaptic plasticity in the CNS. Although a variety of proteins has been characterized to interact with AMPA receptors and regulate their function, little is known about the regulation of the AMPA receptor subunit GluR4. To understand the molecular mechanisms of GluR4 functional regulation, the yeast two-hybrid system was used to identify GluR4-interacting molecules. alpha-Actinin-1 and IQGAP1 were identified to be GluR4-specific binding partners. Both proteins interact specifically with GluR4 and co-cluster with GluR4 individually in neurons. Mapping experiments revealed that alpha-Actinin-1 and IQGAP1 bind to the same region within the C-terminus of GluR4 that contains a previously identified PKA phosphorylation site, Ser842, phosphorylation of which is regulated by synaptic activity. Interestingly, the phosphorylation of Ser842 differentially regulates interactions of GluR4 with alpha-Actinin-1 and IQGAP1; phosphorylation strongly inhibits interaction of GluR4 with alpha-Actinin-1 but has little effect on its interaction with IQGAP1. These results suggest that alpha-Actinin-1 and IQGAP1 regulate GluR4 functions via their specific associations with GluR4. In addition, our data indicate that activity-dependent phosphorylation of GluR4 may regulate its synaptic targeting through phosphorylation-dependent interactions with alpha-Actinin-1 and IQGAP1.
The present study explored possible physiological and molecular mechanisms of pontine-wave (P-wave) generator activation-dependent memory processing in the rat using a two-way active-avoidance learning paradigm. The results show that learning training increased rapid eye movement sleep and activated brainstem cells in the P-wave generator. During this period, there was a time-dependent increase in phosphorylation of cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) in the dorsal hippocampus and amygdala and increased synthesis of activity-regulated cytoskeletal-associated protein (Arc) in the dorsal hippocampus, amygdala, frontal cortex and occipital cortex. Learning training also increased synthesis of brain-derived nerve growth factor (BDNF) in the occipital cortex, amygdala and dorsal hippocampus at different time intervals. During this time, the levels of nerve growth factor did not change. The results also show that the increase in rapid eye movement sleep P-wave density during the post-training 3-h recording session is positively correlated with the increased levels of phosphorylated CREB, BDNF and Arc in the dorsal hippocampus. These results suggest that memory processing of two-way active-avoidance learning may involve excitation of P-wave-generating cells in the brainstem and increased expression of phosphorylated CREB, Arc and BDNF in a time-dependent manner in the forebrain. These dynamic changes in cellular and molecular features provide considerable insight into the mechanisms of the P-wave generator activation-dependent memory consolidation process.
Cyclic AMP is the primary second messenger mediating odorant signal transduction in mammals. A number of studies indicate that cyclic GMP is also involved in a variety of other olfactory signal transduction processes, including adaptation, neuronal development, and long-term cellular responses in the setting of odorant stimulation. However, the mechanisms that control the production and degradation of cGMP in olfactory sensory neurons (OSNs) remain unclear. Here, we investigate these mechanisms using primary cultures of OSNs. We demonstrate that odorants increase cGMP levels in intact OSNs in vitro. Different from the rapid and transient cAMP responses to odorants, the cGMP elevation is both delayed and sustained. Inhibition of soluble guanylyl cyclase and heme oxygenase blocks these odorant-induced cGMP increases, whereas inhibition of cGMP PDEs (phosphodiesterases) increases this response. cGMP PDE activity is increased by odorant stimulation, and is sensitive to both ambient calcium and cAMP concentrations. Calcium stimulates cGMP PDE activity, whereas cAMP and protein kinase A appears to inhibit it. These data demonstrate a mechanism by which odorant stimulation may regulate cGMP levels through the modulation of cAMP and calcium level in OSNs. Such interactions between odorants and second messenger systems may be important to the integration of immediate and long-term responses in the setting odorant stimulation.
It is becoming apparent that the hormone leptin plays an important role in modulating hippocampal function. Indeed, leptin enhances NMDA receptor activation and promotes hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP). Furthermore, obese rodents with dysfunctional leptin receptors display impairments in hippocampal synaptic plasticity. Here we demonstrate that under conditions of enhanced excitability (evoked in Mg2+-free medium or following blockade of GABA(A) receptors), leptin induces a novel form of long-term depression (LTD) in area CA1 of the hippocampus. Leptin-induced LTD was markedly attenuated in the presence of D-(-)-2-Amino-5-Phosphonopentanoic acid (D-AP5), suggesting that it is dependent on the synaptic activation of NMDA receptors. In addition, low-frequency stimulus-evoked LTD occluded the effects of leptin. In contrast, metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) did not contribute to leptin-induced LTD as mGluR antagonists failed to either prevent or reverse this process. The signalling mechanisms underlying leptin-induced LTD were independent of the Ras-Raf-mitogen-activated protein kinase signalling pathway, but were markedly enhanced following inhibition of either phosphoinositide 3-kinase or protein phosphatases 1 and 2A. These data indicate that under conditions of enhanced excitability, leptin induces a novel form of homosynaptic LTD, which further underscores the proposed key role for this hormone in modulating NMDA receptor-dependent hippocampal synaptic plasticity.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) family receptor alpha-1 (GFRalpha-1) is a receptor component of GDNF that associates with and activates the tyrosine kinase receptor Ret. To further understand GDNF and its receptor system in the PNS, we first characterized the expression of GFRalpha-1 in bovine peripheral nerve in vivo. GFRalpha-1 immunoreactivity was localized adjacent to the outermost layer of myelin sheath, as well as in the endoneurium and axoplasm. In a fractionation study, GFRalpha-1 was recovered mostly in the soluble fraction, although a small amount was recovered in the membrane fraction. A substantial amount of GFRalpha-1 in the membrane fraction was extractable by detergent and alkaline conditions. To further clarify the expression of GFRalpha-1 in Schwann cells, we examined cultured rat Schwann cells and the Schwannoma cell line RT4. Schwann cells expressed GFRalpha-1 in both the soluble/cytosolic and membrane fractions, and the membrane form of GFRalpha-1 was expressed at the outer surface of the Schwann cell plasma membrane. We also confirmed the secretion of the soluble form of GFRalpha-1 from Schwannoma cells in a metabolic labeling experiment. These data contribute to our knowledge of the production, expression and functions of GFRalpha-1 in the PNS.
B cells play an indispensable, yet indeterminate, role in the pathogenesis of multiple sclerosis (MS). We measured mRNA of APRIL-a promotor of B-cell survival-in peripheral blood and quantified protein levels in plasma and cerebrospinal fluid in MS patients and controls. APRIL mRNA levels in monocytes and T cells were significantly higher in MS patients than in controls. Levels of soluble APRIL in plasma were higher in patients with chronic progressive MS than in patients with relapsing-remitting MS, albeit not significantly. MS may thus be associated with increased transcription in peripheral blood of factors promoting B-cell survival, including APRIL.
Sex hormones play a central role as modulators of immune responses and autoimmune diseases. We hypothesized that suppression of MS disease during pregnancy may be mediated by sex steroid hormones via regulation of costimulatory molecules such as CD40L or CD80/CD86 (B7-1/B7-2). We tested two sex hormones that are implicated in immune suppression during pregnancy: estriol and progesterone. We also examined whether this regulation is gender-specific or disease-related. PBMC from untreated relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis (RR MS) patients and controls were examined for expression of T cell and monocyte costimulatory molecules following mitogen stimulation in the presence or absence of sex hormones. In the absence of hormones, we confirmed that mitogen stimulation induced significantly more CD40L on the surface of CD4(+)T cells in MS patients compared to controls, and we extend these findings by showing there were no gender differences in induction of CD40L. Although supra-physiologic doses of hormones mildly suppressed CD40L expression on activated T cells, in vitro exposure to typical pregnancy-related physiologic doses of estriol or progesterone showed very little or no suppression of CD40L. On monocytes, neither estriol nor progesterone significantly altered the expression of CD80/CD86. These results suggest that physiologic doses of estriol or progesterone cannot alter CD40L on T cells or CD80/CD86 on monocytes sufficiently to explain the improvement observed in MS during pregnancy. Thus, although amelioration of MS and other autoimmune diseases during pregnancy is thought to be due to increased sex hormones, the present results do not support a role for suppression of costimulation via estriol or progesterone.
Neuronal damage mediated by the TRAIL-system might be involved in the pathogenesis of neuroinflammatory diseases of the central nervous system. Here we used an investigator-independent approach to quantify TRAIL-mediated death of total CNS cells and neurons in a living human brain slice culture system, a model which is much closer to the in vivo situation than dissociated cell culture. We observed dose-dependent TRAIL-mediated death of both total human CNS cells and neurons, which was prevented by flupirtine-maleate, a centrally acting analgesic drug with proposed neuroprotective properties. Our data suggest flupirtine-maleate as an orally available neuroprotective approach in the course of neuroinflammation.
In this article, I review a series of my experiments on the role of the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus (Ppn) in voluntary movements. I sought to elucidate the functional role of the Ppn in the control of voluntary movements using macaque monkeys. I propose a functional model of basal ganglia circuitry in which I emphasize the role of the Ppn and discuss the underlying mechanisms of parkinsonism.
Stereotactic targeting strategies differ between thalamotomy and thalamic deep brain stimulation (DBS) for tremor control. In thalamotomy, a minimal radiofrequency lesion created within the lateral portion of the nucleus ventralis intermedius (Vim) often affords the best control of parkinsonian tremor, supporting the assumption that there is a concentrated cluster of cells within this area which is responsible for tremor. However, this assumption may not always be true; such neural elements sometimes appear to spread out across wide areas. Cells with tremor-frequency activity are widely distributed over the areas extending from the Vim to the nuclei ventralis oralis posterior and anterior (Vop and Voa). All of these cells appear to be more or less involved in tremor generation, especially in patients with essential tremor and post-stroke tremor. In contrast to radiofrequency lesions for thalamotomy, electrodes for DBS can be arranged in such a way that wide areas can be stimulated, if necessary. For this purpose, it is critically important to determine optimal placement and orientation of DBS leads for arranging the electrodes to yield maximal benefits in patients with tremor.
The purpose of the study was to determine the relevance of protein S deficiency in HIV infected patients with ischaemic stroke. In total, 33 HIV positive patients with ischaemic stroke, previously described by us, were prospectively compared with control groups for occurrence of protein S deficiency. The control groups comprised an equal number of consecutive matched HIV positive and negative patients without and with stroke respectively. Data were analysed in contingency tables using Fisher's exact test. Protein S deficiency occurred significantly more frequently in HIV positive compared with HIV negative stroke patients (p &lt; 0.001). However, by including HIV positive patients without stroke as a control group and comparing this group with the HIV positive stroke group we found that protein S deficiency is statistically related to HIV infection and not stroke occurrence. Our data indicate that the presence of protein S deficiency in HIV positive patients with stroke is an epiphenomenon of HIV infection.



The authors have reviewed the results, the indications and the controversies regarding radiotherapy and chemotherapy of patients with newly diagnosed and recurrent brain metastases. Whole-brain radiotherapy, radiosurgery, hypofractionated stereotactic radiotherapy, brachytherapy and chemotherapy are the available options. New radiosensitizers and cytotoxic or cytostatic agents are being investigated. Adjuvant whole brain radiotherapy, either after surgery or radiosurgery, and prophylactic cranial irradiation in small-cell lung cancer are discussed, taking into account local control, survival, and risk of late neurotoxicity. Increasingly, the different treatments are tailored to the different prognostic subgroups, as defined by Radiation Therapy Oncology Group RPA Classes.
Histopathologic grading based on increasing anaplasia predicts clinical behavior of pediatric medulloblastomas. The present study was aimed at grading 86 medulloblastomas of adult patients (aged 18 and older) by anaplasia and analyzing the predictive power. Nodularity, desmoplasia, nuclear size, nuclear pleomorphism, necrosis, and endothelial proliferations have been evaluated. Morphometric analysis of nuclear size was performed using the Eclipse Net program. Patients treated with standard postoperative radiotherapy (35 Gy to craniospinal axis and 50 Gy to posterior fossa) were considered for correlation with survival. Pathologic data and total survival were compared by Kaplan-Meier and logrank analysis. No correlation was found between total survival duration and individual pathologic features. Cooccurrence of nuclear pleomorphism, large nuclear diameter, microvascular proliferations, and necroses did not predict outcome. Severe nuclear pleomorphism was found in 4 of 86 cases; the only large-cell medulloblastoma was from an 18-year-old patient. Histopathologic factors have no clinical use for stratification of patients in risk groups. The histologic spectrum of medulloblastoma in adults is different from that in children.
The 14-3-3 protein family consists of acidic 30-kDa proteins composed of 7 isoforms expressed abundantly in neurons and glial cells of the central nervous system (CNS). The 14-3-3 protein identified in the cerebrospinal fluid provides a surrogate marker for premortem diagnosis of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, although an active involvement of 14-3-3 in the pathogenesis of prion diseases remains unknown. By protein overlay and mass spectrometric analysis of protein extract of NTera2-derived differentiated neurons, we identified heat shock protein Hsp60 as a 14-3-3-interacting protein. The 14-3-3zeta and gamma isoforms interacted with Hsp60, suggesting that the interaction is not isoform-specific. Furthermore, the interaction was identified in SK-N-SH neuroblastoma, U-373MG astrocytoma, and HeLa cervical carcinoma cells. The cellular prion protein (PrPC) along with Hsp60 was coimmunoprecipitated with 14-3-3 in the human brain protein extract. By protein overlay, 14-3-3 interacted with both recombinant human Hsp60 and PrPC produced by Escherichia coli, indicating that the molecular interaction is phosphorylation-independent. The 14-3-3-binding domain was located in the N-terminal half (NTF) of Hsp60 spanning amino acid residues 27-287 and the NTF of PrPC spanning amino acid residues 23-137. By immunostaining, the 14-3-3 protein Hsp60 and PrPC were colocalized chiefly in the mitochondria of human neuronal progenitor cells in culture, and were coexpressed most prominently in neurons and reactive astrocytes in the human brain. These observations indicate that the 14-3-3 protein forms a molecular complex with Hsp60 and PrPC in the human CNS under physiological conditions and suggest that this complex might become disintegrated in the pathologic process of prion diseases.
We examined the autopsied brains of cases of 6 types of tauopathy: parkinsonism-dementia complex of Guam (PDC), corticobasal degeneration (CBD), progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), Pick disease, Alzheimer disease (AD), and myotonic dystrophy together with Guamanian controls. Light microscopy sections of these brains were examined using anti-tau antibodies. Tau-positive fine granules (TFGs) were globe-shaped, and 3 to 6 mum in diameter, were observed predominantly in the frontal white matter in 30 of the 35 patients with PDC. However, no TFGs were found in association with PSP, myotonic dystrophy, Pick disease, AD, or CBD. Western blot analysis of frozen brain tissue taken from the PDC cases revealed that the frontal cortex was hyperphosphorylated and contained 6 tau isoforms (3R+4R tau). However, in the present study, it was revealed that the novel TFGs in the white matter of patients with PDC was composed of 4R tau. Western blot analysis of sarkosyl-insoluble tau from the white matter of the PDC cases showed 2 major bands of 60 and 64 kDa and one minor band of 67 kDa. After dephosphorylation, these bands resolved into one major band of 4-repeat (4R) tau isoform and 3 minor bands of 3-repeat (3R) and 4R tau isoforms. Moreover, the TFGs observed in cases in which the number of neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) was higher than the threshold level were not correlated with the presence of cortical NFTs. In conclusion, these novel TFGs were found almost exclusively in PDC brains and could therefore be considered as a characteristic neuropathologic marker of this particular tauopathy. The TFGs were hyperphosphorylated tau-positive structures that may be formed by a different mechanism from that used to produce cortical NFTs.
The peptides of the tachykinin family are widely distributed within the mammalian peripheral and central nervous systems and play a well-recognized role as neuromodulators, although their direct action on cerebellum granule cells have not yet been demonstrated. We have examined the effect of the best known members of the family, substance P (SP), neurokinin A (NKA), and neurokinin B (NKB) on alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptors from rat cerebellar granule cells in culture to assess the ability of these peptides to regulate the glutamatergic input. Both NKA and NKB, but not SP, produce a significant enhancement of ionic current through AMPA receptors activated by the agonist kainate in 53.5 and 46% of patched neurons, respectively. This effect was not observable in the presence of MEN 10,627 and Trp(7)betaAla(8), NKA and NKB competitive antagonist receptors, respectively, indicating that the current modulations were mediated by the respective receptors. NKB also produces a significant enhancement of ionic current through the AMPA receptors activated directly by its agonist AMPA and cyclothiazide, an allosteric modulator that selectively suppresses desensitization of AMPA receptors. The presence of NK3 receptors was demonstrated in these neurons by RT-PCR amplification of total RNA extracted from cerebellar granule cells, using NK3-specific primer pairs. Immunocytochemistry experiments, using a specific polyclonal antibody directed against NK3, also confirmed the presence of NK3 receptors and their co-localization with the GLUR2 AMPA subunit in about 54% of cerebellar granule neurons. This study adds the tachykinins to the list of neuromodulators capable of exerting a excitatory action on cerebellar granule cells.
Cholecystokinin (CCK) is released from enteroendocrine cells after ingestion of nutrients and induces multiple effects along the gastrointestinal tract, including gastric relaxation and short-term satiety. We used whole cell patch-clamp and immunohistochemical techniques in rat brain stem slices to characterize the effects of CCK. In 45% of the neurons of nucleus tractus solitarius subnucleus centralis (cNTS), perfusion with the sulfated form of CCK (CCK-8s) increased the frequency of spontaneous excitatory currents (sEPSCs) in a concentration-dependent manner (1-300 nM). The threshold for the CCK-8s excitatory effect was 1 nM, the EC(50) was 20 nM, and E(max) was 100 nM. The excitatory effects of CCK-8s were still present when the slices were preincubated with tetrodotoxin or bicuculline or when the recordings were conducted with Cs(+) electrodes. Pretreatment with the CCK-A receptor antagonist, lorglumide (1 microM), antagonized the effects of CCK-8s, whereas perfusion with the CCK-B preferring agonist CCK-8 nonsulfated (CCK-ns, 1 microM) did not affect the frequency of sEPSCs. Similarly, pretreatment with the CCK-B receptor antagonist, triglumide (1 microM), did not prevent the actions of CCK-8s. Although the majority (i.e., 76%) of CCK-8s unresponsive cNTS neurons had a bipolar somata shape and were TH-IR negative, no differences were found in either the morphological or the neurochemical phenotype of cNTS neurons responsive to CCK-8s. Our results suggest that the excitatory effects of CCK-8s on terminals impinging on a subpopulation of cNTS neurons are mediated by CCK-A receptors; these responsive neurons, however, do not have morphological or neurochemical characteristics that automatically distinguish them from nonresponsive neurons.
Adenosine is a widespread neuromodulator that can be directly released in the extracellular space during sustained network activity or can be generated as the breakdown product of adenosine triphosphate (ATP). Whole cell patch-clamp recordings were performed from CA3 principal cells and interneurons in hippocampal slices obtained from P2-P7 neonatal rats to study the modulatory effects of adenosine on giant depolarizing potentials (GDPs) that constitute the hallmark of developmental networks. We found that GDPs were extremely sensitive to the inhibitory action of adenosine (IC(50) = 0.52 microM). Adenosine also contributed to the depressant effect of ATP as indicated by DPCPX-sensitive changes of ATP-induced reduction of GDP frequency. Similarly, adenosine exerted a strong inhibitory action on spontaneous glutamatergic synaptic events recorded from GABAergic interneurons and on interictal bursts that developed in CA3 principal cells after blockade of gamma-aminobutyric acid type A (GABA(A)) receptors with bicuculline. All these effects were prevented by DPCPX, indicating the involvement of inhibitory A1 receptors. In contrast, GABAergic synaptic events were not changed by adenosine. Consistent with the endogenous role of adenosine on network activity, DPCPX per se increased the frequency of GDPs, interictal bursts, and spontaneous glutamatergic synaptic events recorded from GABAergic interneurons. Moreover, the adenosine transport inhibitor NBTI and the adenosine deaminase blocker EHNA decreased the frequency of GDPs, thus providing further evidence that endogenous adenosine exerts a powerful control on GDP generation. We conclude that, in the neonatal rat hippocampus, the inhibitory action of adenosine on GDPs arises from the negative control of glutamatergic, but not GABAergic, inputs.
A fundamental challenge in neuroscience is to understand the mechanisms by which multicomponent actions are represented and sequenced for production. We addressed this challenge with a movement-imitation task in which subjects viewed the quasi-random, two-dimensional movements of a disc and then used a stylus to reproduce the remembered trajectory. The stimulus disc moved along straight segments, which differed sufficiently from one another that it was possible to trace individual segments' fate in the resulting movement imitation. A biologically based segmentation algorithm decomposed each imitation into segments whose directions could be compared with those of homologous segments in the model. As the number of linked segments in a stimulus model grew from three to seven, imitation became less accurate, with segments more likely to be deleted, particularly from a model's final stages. When fidelity of imitation was assessed segment by segment, the resulting serial position curves showed a strong primacy effect and a moderate recency effect. Analysis of pairwise transposition errors revealed a striking preponderance of exchanges between adjacent segments that, along with the serial position effects, supports a competitive queuing model of sequencing. In analogy to results with verbal serial recall, repetition of one directed segment in the model reduced imitation quality. Results with longer stimulus models suggest that the segment-by-segment imitation generator may be supplemented in the final stages of imitation by an error-signal driven overlay that produces a late-course, real-time correction. Results are related to neural mechanisms that are known to support sequential motor behavior and working memory.
The activation of the electroencephalogram (EEG) is paralleled with an increase in the firing rate of cortical neurons, but little is known concerning the conductance state of their membrane and its impact on their integrative properties. Here, we combined in vivo intracellular recordings with computational models to investigate EEG-activated states induced by stimulation of the brain stem ascending arousal system. Electrical stimulation of the pedonculopontine tegmental (PPT) nucleus produced long-lasting (approximately 20 s) periods of desynchronized EEG activity similar to the EEG of awake animals. Intracellularly, PPT stimulation locked the membrane into a depolarized state, similar to the up-states seen during deep anesthesia. During these EEG-activated states, however, the input resistance was higher than that during up-states. Conductance measurements were performed using different methods, which all indicate that EEG-activated states were associated with a synaptic activity dominated by inhibitory conductances. These results were confirmed by computational models of reconstructed pyramidal neurons constrained by the corresponding intracellular recordings. These models indicate that, during EEG-activated states, neocortical neurons are in a high-conductance state consistent with a stochastic integrative mode. The amplitude and timing of somatic excitatory postsynaptic potentials were nearly independent of the position of the synapses in dendrites, suggesting that EEG-activated states are compatible with coding paradigms involving the precise timing of synaptic events.
Stereo processing begins in the striate cortex and involves several extrastriate visual areas. We quantitatively analyzed the disparity-tuning characteristics of neurons in area V4 of awake, fixating monkeys. Approximately half of the analyzed V4 cells were tuned for horizontal binocular disparities embedded in dynamic random-dot stereograms (RDSs). Their response preferences were strongly biased for crossed disparities. To characterize the disparity-tuning profile, we fitted a Gabor function to the disparity-tuning data. The distribution of V4 cells showed a single dense cluster in a joint parameter space of the center and the phase parameters of the fitted Gabor function; most V4 neurons were maximally sensitive to fine stereoscopic depth increments near zero disparity. Comparing single-cell responses with background multiunit responses at the same sites showed that disparity-sensitive cells were clustered within V4 and that nearby cells possessed similar preferred disparities. Consistent with a recent report by Hegd and Van Essen, the disparity tuning for an RDS drastically differed from that for a solid-figure stereogram (SFS). Disparity-tuning curves were generally broader for SFSs than for RDSs, and there was no correlation between the fitted Gabor functions' amplitudes, widths, or peaks for the two types of stereograms. The differences were partially attributable to shifts in the monocular images of an SFS. Our results suggest that the representation of stereoscopic depth in V4 is suited for detecting fine structural features protruding from a background. The representation is not generic and differs when the stimulus is broad-band noise or a solid figure.
In this study, we examined if several months of intensive locomotor training increases the function of spared corticospinal tract pathways after chronic spinal cord injury (SCI) in association with the recovery of locomotor function. Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) at incrementing levels of intensity was applied over the motor cortex supplying either the tibialis anterior or vastus lateralis muscles, and the resulting peak-to-peak amplitude of the motor-evoked potentials (MEPs) were measured to obtain a recruitment curve both before and after training. In the majority of subjects (7/8), 3-5 mo of daily intensive training increased the responses to TMS in at least one of the leg muscles tested (9/13). On average, across all muscles tested MEP(max), which was evoked at high stimulation intensities, increased by 46% and MEP(h), which was evoked at intermediate stimulation intensities, increased by 45% (both significantly different from 0), indicating an increase in corticospinal tract connectivity from training. The slope of the sigmoid function fit to the recruitment curve increased by 24% after training (significantly different), indicating an expansion and/or increased excitability of corticospinal circuits supplying muscles to the lower leg. We also observed that the average duration of the silent period measured at MEP(max) increased after training from 130 to 178 ms, suggesting that training had effects on cortical circuits thought to mediate this long-lasting inhibition. The percentage increase in MEP(max) was positively and significantly correlated to the degree of locomotor recovery as assessed by the WISCI II score, the distance a subject could walk in 6 min, and the amplitude of the locomotor EMG activity, suggesting that the corticospinal tract, in part, mediated the functional locomotor recovery produced from training.
We examined the membrane potentials and firing properties of motor cortical neurons recorded intracellularly in awake, behaving primates. Three classes of neuron were distinguished by 1) the width of their spikes, 2) the shape of the afterhyperpolarization (AHP), and 3) the distribution of interspike intervals. Type I neurons had wide spikes, exhibited scoop-shaped AHPs, and fired irregularly. Type II neurons had narrower spikes, showed brief postspike afterdepolarizations before the AHP, and sometimes fired high-frequency doublets. Type III neurons had the narrowest spikes, showed a distinct post-AHP depolarization, or &quot;rebound AHP&quot; (rAHP), lasting nearly 30 ms, and tended to fire at 25-35 Hz. The evidence suggests that an intrinsic rAHP may confer on these neurons a tendency to fire at a preferred frequency governed by the duration of the rAHP and may contribute to a &quot;pacemaking&quot; role in generating cortical oscillations.
S cells form a chain of electrically coupled neurons that extends the length of the leech CNS and plays a critical role in sensitization during whole-body shortening. This process requires serotonin, which acts in part by altering the pattern of activity in the S-cell network. Serotonin-containing axons and varicosities were observed in Faivre's nerve where the S-to-S-cell electrical synapses are located. To determine whether serotonin modulates these synapses, S-cell action-potential (AP) propagation was studied in a two-ganglion chain containing one electrical synapse. Suction electrodes were placed on the cut ends of the connectives to stimulate one S cell while recording the other, coupled S cell's APs. A third electrode, placed en passant, recorded the APs near the electrical synapse before they propagated through it. Low concentrations of the gap junction inhibitor octanol increased AP latency across the two-ganglion chain, and this effect was localized to the region of axon containing the electrical synapse. At higher concentrations, APs failed to propagate across the synapse. Serotonin also increased AP latency across the electrical synapse, suggesting that serotonin reduced coupling between S cells. This effect was independent of the direction of propagation and increased with the number of electrical synapses in progressively longer chains. Furthermore, serotonin modulated instantaneous AP frequency when APs were initiated in separate S cells and in a computational model of S-cell activity after mechanosensory input. Thus serotonergic modulation of S-cell electrical synapses may contribute to changes in the pattern of activity in the S-cell network.
We performed a quantitative characterization of binocular disparity-tuning functions in the ventral (object-processing) pathway of the macaque visual cortex. We measured responses of 452 area V4 neurons to stimuli with disparities ranging from -1.0 to +1.0 degrees. Asymmetric Gaussian functions fit the raw data best (median R = 0.90), capturing both the modal components (local peaks in the -1.0 to +1.0 degrees range) and the monotonic components (linear or sigmoidal dependency on disparity) of the tuning patterns. Values derived from the asymmetric Gaussian fits were used to characterize neurons on a modal x monotonic tuning domain. Points along the modal tuning axis correspond to classic tuned excitatory and inhibitory patterns; points along the monotonic axis correspond to classic near and far patterns. The distribution on this domain was continuous, with the majority of neurons exhibiting a mixed modal/monotonic tuning pattern. The distribution in the modal dimension was shifted toward excitatory patterns, consistent with previous results in other areas. The distribution in the monotonic dimension was shifted toward tuning for crossed disparities (corresponding to stimuli nearer than the fixation plane). This could reflect a perceptual emphasis on objects or object parts closer to the observer. We also found that disparity-tuning strength was positively correlated with orientation-tuning strength and color-tuning strength, and negatively correlated with receptive field eccentricity.
Short-term dynamics such as facilitation and depression are present in most synapses and are often target-specific even for synapses from the same type of neuron. We examine the dynamics and possible functions of two synapses from the same presynaptic neuron in the rhythmically active pyloric network of the spiny lobster. Using simultaneous recordings, we show that the synapses from the lateral pyloric (LP) neuron to the pyloric dilator (PD; a member of the pyloric pacemaker ensemble) and the pyloric constrictor (PY) neurons both show short-term depression. However, the postsynaptic potentials produced by the LP-to-PD synapse are larger in amplitude, depress less, and recover faster than those produced by the LP-to-PY synapse. The main function of the LP-to-PD synapse is to slow down the pyloric rhythm. However, in some cases, it slows down the rhythm only when it is fast and has no effect or to speeds up when it is slow. In contrast, the LP-to-PY synapse functions to delay the activity of the PY neuron; this delay increases as the cycle period becomes longer. Using a computational model, we show that the short-term dynamics of synaptic depression observed for each of these synapses are tailored to their individual functions and that replacing the dynamics of either synapse with the other would disrupt these functions. Together, the experimental and modeling results suggest that the target-specific features of short-term synaptic depression are functionally important for synapses efferent from the same presynaptic neuron.
Nucleus retroambiguus (NRA), in the caudal medulla, projects to all spinal levels. One physiological role is abdominal pressure control, evidenced by projections to intercostal and abdominal motoneurons from expiratory bulbospinal neurons (EBSNs) within NRA. The roles of NRA projections to the lumbosacral cord are less certain, although those to limb motoneurons may relate to mating behavior and those to Onuf's nucleus (ON) to maintaining continence. To clarify this we physiologically characterized NRA projections to the lumbosacral cord. Extracellular recordings were made in NRA under anesthesia and paralysis in estrus cats. Administered CO(2) gave a strong respiratory drive. Antidromic unit responses were recorded to stimulation of the contralateral ventrolateral funiculus of L(6), L(7), or sacral segments and to microstimulation in the region of semimembranosus motor nucleus or ON. All units were found at sites showing expiratory discharges. Units that showed collisions between antidromic and spontaneous spikes (all in late expiration) were identified as EBSNs. These were common from the ventrolateral funiculus (VLF) of L(6) (42.5%) or L(7) (32.9%), but rare from the sacral VLF or the motor nuclei. Antidromic latencies revealed a subthreshold respiratory drive in some non-EBSNs. This group had lower conduction velocities than the EBSNs. The remainder, with a negligible respiratory drive, had even lower conduction velocities. A new population of NRA neurons has thus been defined. They are not active even with a strong respiratory drive, but may provide most of the synaptic input from NRA to lower lumbar and sacral segments and could subserve functions related to mating behavior.
Liolaemus lizards were explored to ascertain whether they would make an amenable model to study single-cell electrophysiology of neurons in the vomeronasal organ (VNO). Despite a rich array of chemosensory-related behaviors chronicled for this genus, no anatomical or functional data exist for the VNO, the organ mediating these types of behaviors. Two Liolaemus species (L. bellii and L. nigroviridis) were collected in Central Chile in the Farellones Mountains and transported to the United States. Lizards were subjected to hypothermia and then a lethal injection of sodium pentabarbitol prior to all experiments described in the following text. Retrograde dye perfusion combined with histological techniques demonstrated a compartmentalization of the proportionally large VNO from the main olfactory epithelium (MOE) in cryosections of L. bellii. SDS-PAGE analysis of the VNO of both species demonstrated the expression of three G protein subunits, namely, G(alphao), G(alphai2), and G(beta), and the absence of G(alphaolf), G(alpha11), and G(q), the latter of which are traditionally found in the MOE. Vomeronasal (VN) neurons were enzymatically isolated for whole cell voltage-clamp electrophysiology of single neurons. Both species demonstrated a tetrodotoxin (TTX)-sensitive, rapidly inactivating sodium current and a tetraethylammonium (TEA)-sensitive potassium current that had a transient and sustained component. VN neurons were classified into two types dependent on the ratio of sodium over sustained potassium current. VN neurons exhibited outward and inward chemosignal-evoked currents when stimulated with pheromone-containing secretions taken from the feces, skin, and precloacal pores. Fifty-nine percent of the neurons were responsive to at least one compound when presented with a battery of five different secretions. The breadth of responsiveness (H metric) demonstrated a heterogeneous population of tuning with a mean of 0.29.
We have isolated extraretinal and retinal components of firing during smooth pursuit eye movements in the medial-superior-temporal area (MST) in the extrastriate visual cortex. Awake macaque monkeys tracked spots in total darkness to eliminate image motion inputs from the background. For 300 ms during sustained tracking at different speeds, the target was stabilized on the moving eye, practically eliminating image motion inputs from the tracking target. The extraretinal component of firing rate during image stabilization was direction selective and related to eye speed but sometimes showed a different preferred speed from the retinal component of the same neuron's responses. The highly variable firing rate of individual MST neurons allowed an ideal observer to predict target speed correctly on 25% of trials. Pooling the data from 71 MST neurons improved the correct response rate to 50%. Behavioral experiments imposed brief perturbations of target velocity to assess the gain of visual-motor transmission for pursuit. The average response to perturbations increased as a function of target speed. However, the size of the responses to individual perturbations allowed an ideal observer to predict target speed correctly on only 35% of the trials. The imprecision of MST responses argues that the output of MST may be a poor candidate to drive eye velocity and so may instead regulate another component of pursuit. The good agreement between the eye velocity precision of the behavioral responses to perturbations of target motion and the firing of MST neurons raises regulation of the visual-motor gain of pursuit as one candidate component.
Studies of movement coding have indicated a relationship between functional MRI signals and increasing frequency of movement in primary motor cortex and other motor-related structures. However, prior work has typically used block-designs and fixed-time intervals across the varying movements frequencies that may prevent ready distinction of brain mechanisms related to movement quantity and, especially, movement frequency. Here, we obtained functional MRI signals from humans working in an event-related design to extract independent activation related to movement quantity or movement frequency. Participants tapped once, twice, or thrice at 1, 2, or 3 Hz, and the tapping evoked activation related to movement quantity in the precentral and postcentral gyri, supplementary motor area, cerebellum, putamen, and thalamus. Increasing movement frequency failed to yield activation in these motor-related areas, although linear movement frequency affects occurred in nonmotor regions of cortex and subcortex. Our results do not replicate prior data suggesting movement frequency encoding in motor-related areas; instead we observed movement quantity coding in motor-related brain areas. The discrepancy between prior studies and this study likely relates to methodology concerns. We suggest that the movement quantity relationships in human motor areas and encoding of movement frequency in nonmotor areas may reflect a functional anatomical substrate for mediating distinct movement parameters.
Inferior olivary (IO) neurons are electrically coupled through gap junctions and generate synchronous subthreshold oscillations of their membrane potential at a frequency of 1-10 Hz. Whereas the ionic mechanisms of these oscillatory responses are well understood, their origin and ensemble properties remain controversial. Here, the role of gap junctions in generating and synchronizing IO oscillations was examined by combining intracellular recordings with high-speed voltage-sensitive dye imaging in rat brain stem slices. Single cell responses and ensemble synchronized responses of IO neurons were compared in control conditions and in the presence of 18beta-glycyrrhetinic acid (18beta-GA), a pharmacological gap junction blocker. Under our experimental conditions, 18beta-GA had no adverse effects on intrinsic electroresponsive properties of IO neurons, other than the block of gap junction-dependent dye coupling and the resulting change in cells' passive properties. Application of 18beta-GA did not abolish single cell oscillations. Pharmacologically uncoupled IO neurons continued to oscillate with a frequency and amplitude that were similar to those recorded in control conditions. However, these oscillations were no longer synchronized across a population of IO neurons. Our optical recordings did not detect any clusters of synchronous oscillatory activity in the presence of the blocker. These results indicate that gap junctions are not necessary for generating subthreshold oscillations, rather, they are required for clustering of coherent oscillatory activity in the IO. The findings support the view that oscillatory properties of single IO neurons endow the system with important reset dynamics, while gap junctions are mainly required for synchronized neuronal ensemble activity.

We investigated motoneuron degeneration after proximal nerve injury in presymptomatic transgenic (tg) rats expressing human mutant Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD1). The right facial nerves of presymptomatic tg rats expressing human H46R or G93A SOD1 and their non-tg littermates were avulsed, and facial nuclei were examined at 2 weeks postoperation. Nissl-stained cell counts revealed that facial motoneuron loss after avulsion was exacerbated in H46R- and G93A-tg rats compared with their non-tg littermates. The loss of motoneurons in G93A-tg rats after avulsion was significantly greater than that in H46R-tg rats. Intense cytoplasmic immunolabeling for SOD1 in injured motoneurons after avulsion was demonstrated in H46R- and G93A-tg rats but not in their littermates. Facial axotomy did not induce significant motoneuron loss nor enhance SOD1 immunoreactivity in these tg rats and non-tg littermates at 2 weeks postoperation, although both axotomy and avulsion elicited intense immunolabeling for activating transcription factor-3, phosphorylated c-Jun, and phosphorylated heat shock protein 27 in injured motoneurons of all these animals. The present data indicate the increased vulnerability of injured motoneurons after avulsion in the presymptomatic mutant SOD1-tg rats.
Previous studies have shown that administration of riboflavin, vitamin B2, significantly reduced edema formation following experimental stroke. The present study evaluated the ability of B2 to improve behavioral function, reduce edema formation, and limit glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) expression following frontal cortex contusion injury. Groups of rats were assigned to B2 (7.5 mg/kg) or saline (1.0 ml/kg) treatment conditions and received contusion injuries or sham procedures. Drug treatment was administered 15 min and 24 h following injury. Rats were examined on a variety of tests to measure sensorimotor performance (bilateral tactile removal test), and cognitive ability (acquisition of reference and working memory) in the Morris water maze. Administration of B2 following injury significantly reduced the behavioral impairments observed on the bilateral tactile removal test and improved the acquisition of both reference and working memory tests compared to saline-treated rats. The lesion analysis showed that B2 reduced the size of the lesion. Examination of GFAP expression around the lesion revealed that B2 significantly reduced the number of GFAP+ astrocytes. Edema formation following injury was also significantly reduced by B2 administration. These findings are the first to show that B2 administration significantly improved behavioral outcome and reduced lesion volume, edema formation, and the expression of GFAP following traumatic brain injury. These findings suggest that B2 may have therapeutic potential for the treatment of TBI.
We have tested the effectiveness of polyethylene glycol (PEG) to restore the integrity of neuronal membranes after mechanical damage secondary to severe traumatic brain injury (TBI) produced by a standardized head injury model in rats. We provide additional detail on the standardization of this model, particularly the use and storage of foam bedding that serves to both support the animal during the impact procedure-and as a dampener to the acceleration of the brass weight. Further, we employed a dye exclusion technique using ethidium bromide (EB; quantitative evaluation) and horseradish peroxidase (HRP; qualitative evaluation). Both have been successfully used previously to evaluate neural injury in the spinal cord since they enter cells when their plasma membranes are damaged. We quantified EB labeling (90 microM in 110 microL of sterile saline) after injection into the left lateral ventricle of the rat brain 2 h after injury. At six h after injection and 8 h after injury, the animals were sacrificed and the brains were analyzed. In the injured rat brain, EB entered cells lining and medial to the ventricles, particularly the axons of the corpus callosum. There was minimal EB labeling in uninjured control brains, limited to cells lining the luminal surfaces of the ventricles. Intravenous injections of PEG (1 cc of saline, 30% by volume, 2000 MW) immediately after severe TBI resulted in significantly decreased EB uptake compared with injured control animals. A similar result was achieved using the larger marker, HRP. PEG-treated brains closely resembled those of uninjured animals.
Single-cell recordings from macaque visual cortex have shown orientation-selective neurons in area in V2 code for border ownership [J. Neurosci. 20, 6594 (2000)]: Each piece of contrast border is represented by two pools of neurons whose relative firing rate indicates the side of border ownership. Here we show that the human visual cortex uses a similar coding scheme by demonstrating a border-ownership-contingent tilt aftereffect. The aftereffect was specific for the adapted location, indicating that the adapted neurons have small receptive fields. We conclude that figure-ground organization is represented by border-ownership-selective neurons at early stages in the human visual cortex.
Brightness induction refers to the finding that the apparent brightness of a stimulus changes when surrounded by a black versus a white stimulus. In the current study, we investigated the effects of black/white surrounding stimuli on settings made between red and green stimuli on three different tasks: heterochromatic brightness matching (HBM), heterochromatic flicker photometry (HFP), and minimally distinct border (MDB). For HBM, subjects varied the relative luminance between the red and green stimuli so that the brightness of the two colors appeared equal. For the two other tasks, matches were made based on minimizing red/green flicker (HFP) or the saliency of a red/green border (MDB). For all three tasks, the presence of black/white surrounding stimuli significantly altered red/green settings, demonstrating the existence of induction effects. These results are discussed in terms of which underlying color pathways (L+ M versus L-M) may contribute to induction effects for the different tasks.
Most New World (platyrrhine) monkeys have M/L cone photopigment polymorphisms that map directly into individual variations in visual sensitivity and color vision. We used electroretinogram flicker photometry to examine M/L cone photopigments in the New World monkey Callicebus moloch (the dusky Titi). Like other New World monkeys, this species has an M/L cone photopigment polymorphism that reflects the presence of X-chromosome opsin gene alleles. However, unlike other platyrrhines in which three M/L photopigments are typical, Callicebus has a total of five M/L cone photopigments. The peak sensitivity values for these pigments extend across the range from 530 to 562 nm. The result is an enhanced array of potential color vision phenotypes in this species.


Haloperidol is known as an antagonist of dopamine D2 receptors. However, it also blocks a variety of ion channels at concentrations above the therapeutic range. Reduced haloperidol (R-haloperidol), one of the main metabolites of haloperidol, has been reported to accumulate in certain tissues, particularly in brain cortex, and it may produce the pharmacological effects associated with haloperidol treatment. In this study, we assessed the effect of R-haloperidol and other related compounds on native delayed-rectifier potassium channels (K(DR)) in mouse cortical neurons by using the whole-cell patch-clamp technique. Although R-haloperidol has much lower affinity to D2 receptors than haloperidol, the IC50 of R-haloperidol to block K(DR) currents was 4.4 microM, similar to its parent compound. The binding site of R-haloperidol is on the cytoplasmic side of the channel because its quaternary derivative preferentially inhibited the currents from intracellular side. 4-Chlorophenyl-4-hydroxypiperidine (4C4HP) is the active fragment of haloperidol because other compounds containing this moiety, including L-741,626 (3-[4-(4-chlorophenyl)-4-hydroxypiperidin-L-yl]-methyl-1H-indole) and loperamide, also blocked K(DR) channels. The potency of the 4C4HP fragment positively correlated with the hydrophobicity index (clogP) of the compounds tested. We conclude that R-haloperidol is a K(DR) channel blocker, although it does not interfere with the normal channel function at a clinically relevant concentration.
In SH-SY5Y, a human neuroblastoma cell line, Aroclor 1254 (A1254), induced a dose-dependent (10-50 microg/ml) intracellular calcium concentration ([Ca2+]i) increase. Two rather specific sodium-calcium (Na+-Ca2+) exchanger (NCX) inhibitors, bepridil (10 microM) and KB-R7943 [2-[2-[4-(4-nitrobenzyloxy) phenyl]ethyl]isothiourea methanesulfonate] (10 microM), reduced A1254-induced [Ca2+]i increase. A 24-h exposure to 30 microg/ml A1254 caused remarkable SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cell damage. It is noteworthy that both bepridil and KB-R7943 counteracted A1254-induced neuronal injury. These results indicate that NCX contributes to [Ca2+]i increase and neuronal injury induced by A1254. RT-PCR experiments revealed in SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells the expression of NCX1 and NCX3 isoforms. To investigate which isoform was involved in [Ca2+]i increase and neuronal damage induced by A1254, we used specific antisense oligodeoxynucleotides (ODNs) to reduce NCX1 or NCX3 protein expression. The results showed that only NCX1 ODN reduced [Ca2+]i increase and neuronal injury induced by A1254. In conclusion, these results indicate that NCX1 may participate to [Ca2+]i increase and neurotoxicity evoked by A1254 in SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells.
Metabotropic glutamate receptor type 1 (mGluR1) is thought to play important roles in the neurotransmission and pathogenesis of several neurological disorders. Here, we describe the radioligand binding properties and pharmacological effects of a newly synthesized, high-affinity, selective, and noncompetitive mGluR1 antagonist, 6-amino-N-cyclohexyl-N,3-dimethylthiazolo[3,2-a]benzimidazole-2-carboxamide (YM-298198). YM-298198 inhibited glutamate-induced inositol phosphate production in mGluR1-NIH3T3 cells with an IC50 of 16 +/- 5.8 nM in a noncompetitive manner. Its radiolabeled form, [3H]YM-298198, bound to mGluR1-NIH3T3 cell membranes with a KD of 32 +/- 8.5 nM and a Bmax of 2297 +/- 291 fmol/mg protein. In ligand displacement experiments using rat cerebellum membrane, an existing noncompetitive mGluR1 antagonist 7-(hydroxyimino)cyclo-propa[b]chromen-1a-carboxylate ethyl ester (CPCCOEt) competitively displaced [3H]YM-298198 binding, although glutamate and other mGluR1 ligands acting on a glutamate site failed to inhibit [3H]YM-298198 binding, suggesting that YM-298198 binds to CPCCOEt (allosteric) binding sites but not to glutamate (agonist) binding sites. Specificity was demonstrated for mGluR1 over mGluR subtypes 2 to 7, ionotropic glutamate receptors, and other receptor, transporter, and ion channel targets. In in vivo experiments, orally administered YM-298198 showed a significant analgesic effect in streptozotocin-induced hyperalgesic mice at doses (30 mg/kg) that did not cause Rotarod performance impairment, indicating that it is also useful even for in vivo experiments. In conclusion, YM-298198 is a newly synthesized, high-affinity, selective, and noncompetitive antagonist of mGluR1 that will be a useful pharmacological tool due to its highly active properties in vitro and in vivo. Its radiolabeled form [3H]YM-298198 will also be a valuable tool for future investigation of the mGluR1.
We performed simultaneous patch-electrode recordings from the soma and apical dendrite of CA1 pyramidal neurons in hippocampal slices, in order to determine the degree of voltage attenuation along CA1 dendrites. Fifty per cent attenuation of steady-state somatic voltage changes occurred at a distance of 238 microm from the soma in control and 409 microm after blocking the hyperpolarization-activated (H) conductance. The morphology of three neurons was reconstructed and used to generate computer models, which were adjusted to fit the somatic and dendritic voltage responses. These models identify several factors contributing to the voltage attenuation along CA1 dendrites, including high axial cytoplasmic resistivity, low membrane resistivity, and large H conductance. In most cells the resting membrane conductances, including the H conductances, were larger in the dendrites than the soma. Simulations suggest that synaptic potentials attenuate enormously as they propagate from the dendrite to the soma, with greater than 100-fold attenuation for synapses on many small, distal dendrites. A prediction of this powerful EPSP attenuation is that distal synaptic inputs are likely only to be effective in the presence of conductance scaling, dendritic excitability, or both.

Our work with both sheep and mouse models has revealed many of the neural substrates and signalling pathways involved in olfactory recognition memory in the main olfactory system. A distributed neural system is required for initial memory formation and its short-term retention-the olfactory bulb, piriform and entorhinal cortices and hippocampus. Following memory consolidation, after 8 h or so, only the olfactory bulb and piriform cortex appear to be important for effective recall. Similarly, whereas the glutamate-NMDA/AMPA receptor-nitric oxide (NO)-cyclic GMP signalling pathway is important for memory formation it is not involved in recall post-consolidation. Here, within the olfactory bulb, up-regulation of class 1 metabotropic glutamate receptors appears to maintain the enhanced sensitivity at the mitral to granule cell synapses required for effective memory recall. Recently we have investigated whether fluctuating sex hormone levels during the oestrous cycle modulate olfactory recognition memory and the different neural substrates and signalling pathways involved. These studies have used two robust models of social olfactory memory in the mouse which either involve social or non social odours (habituation-dishabituation and social transmission of food preference tasks). In both cases significant improvement of learning retention occurs when original learning takes place during the proestrus phase of the ovarian cycle. This is probably the result of oestrogen changes at this time since transgenic mice lacking functional expression of oestrogen receptors (ERalpha and ERbeta, the two main oestrogen receptor sub-types) have shown problems in social recognition. Therefore, oestrogen appears to act at the level of the olfactory bulb by modulating both noradrenaline and the glutamate/NO signalling pathway.



Although the majority of scientific information is communicated in written form, and peer review is the primary process by which it is validated, undergraduate students may receive little direct training in science writing or peer review. Here, I describe the use of Calibrated Peer Review (CPR), a free, web-based writing and peer review program designed to alleviate instructor workload, in two undergraduate neuroscience courses: an upper- level sensation and perception course (41 students, three assignments) and an introductory neuroscience course (50 students; two assignments). Using CPR online, students reviewed primary research articles on assigned 'hot' topics, wrote short essays in response to specific guiding questions, reviewed standard 'calibration' essays, and provided anonymous quantitative and qualitative peer reviews. An automated grading system calculated the final scores based on a student's essay quality (as determined by the average of three peer reviews) and his or her accuracy in evaluating 1) three standard calibration essays, 2) three anonymous peer reviews, and 3) his or her self review. Thus, students were assessed not only on their skill at constructing logical, evidence-based arguments, but also on their ability to accurately evaluate their peers' writing. According to both student self-reports and instructor observation, students' writing and peer review skills improved over the course of the semester. Student evaluation of the CPR program was mixed; while some students felt like the peer review process enhanced their understanding of the material and improved their writing, others felt as though the process was biased and required too much time. Despite student critiques of the program, I still recommend the CPR program as an excellent and free resource for incorporating more writing, peer review, and critical thinking into an undergraduate neuroscience curriculum.

Exposure to aldrithiol-2-inactivated human immunodeficiency virus type 1 or gp120, but not gp41, triggered alpha interferon (IFN-alpha), CC chemokine ligand 2 (CCL2), CCL3, and CCL4 production in human plasmacytoid dendritic cells (DCs) but not in myeloid DCs (M-DCs) or monocyte-derived DCs from the same donors. The nonresponsiveness of M-DCs for IFN-alpha/beta production was a general feature specific to these cells, as they also failed to produce it in response to inactivated influenza virus, poly(I-C), lipopolysaccharide, Staphylococcus aureus Cowans I, or CD40L. The different capacities of circulating DC subsets to produce immune mediators in response to most stimuli argue for a different role for these cells in the regulation of innate immunity to pathogens.
Transection of the recurrent laryngeal nerve leads to permanent palsy of the vocal cord. Experimental studies have confirmed that nimodipine increases the pace of axonal regeneration. We present a case of a 19-year-old male, suffering a thyroid cancer disease, who was subjected to unilateral resection of the recurrent laryngeal nerve during surgery. The nerve was repaired with a nerve graft and the patient further treated with nimodipine for 3 months. Evaluation of the patient showed normalization of voice, movement of the vocal cord on the injured side, and electromyography evidence of reinnervation of the larynx muscles at 15 months after surgery.
Several hypotheses have been proposed attempting to explain the pathogenesis of Alzheimer disease including, among others, theories involving amyloid deposition, tau phosphorylation, oxidative stress, metal ion dysregulation and inflammation. While there is strong evidence suggesting that each one of these proposed mechanisms contributes to disease pathogenesis, none of these mechanisms are able to account for all the physiological changes that occur during the course of the disease. For this reason, we and others have begun the search for a causative factor that predates known features found in Alzheimer disease, and that might therefore be a fundamental initiator of the pathophysiological cascade. We propose that the dysregulation of the cell cycle that occurs in neurons susceptible to degeneration in the hippocampus during Alzheimer disease is a potential causative factor that, together with oxidative stress, would initiate all known pathological events. Neuronal changes supporting alterations in cell cycle control in the etiology of Alzheimer disease include the ectopic expression of markers of the cell cycle, organelle kinesis and cytoskeletal alterations including tau phosphorylation. Such mitotic alterations are not only one of the earliest neuronal abnormalities in the disease, but as discussed herein, are also intimately linked to all of the other pathological hallmarks of Alzheimer disease including tau protein, amyloid beta protein precursor and oxidative stress, and even risk factors such as mutations in the presenilin genes. Therefore, therapeutic interventions targeted toward ameliorating mitotic changes would be predicted to have a profound and positive impact on Alzheimer disease progression.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) are generated by mitochondrial respiration and can react with and damage cellular components. According to the free radical theory of aging, oxidative damage from mitochondrial ROS is a major cause of cellular decline during aging. Mitochondrial uncoupling proteins (UCPs) uncouple ATP production from electron transport and can be stimulated by free radicals, suggesting UCPs may perform a cytoprotective function. The nematode, Caenorhabditis elegans, contains one UCP-like protein, encoded by the ucp-4 gene. We have investigated the genetic requirement for ucp-4 in normal aging and stress resistance. Consistent with the hypothesis that ucp-4 encodes a putative uncoupling protein, animals lacking ucp-4 function contained elevated ATP levels. However, the absence of ucp-4 function did not affect adult lifespan or survival in the presence of thermal or oxidative stress. Together, these results demonstrate that ucp-4 is a negative regulator of ATP production in C. elegans, but is not required for normal lifespan.


Photoconversion of fluorescent staining into stable diaminobenzidine (DAB) precipitate is widely used for neuroanatomical and developmental studies. An important advantage of the approach is to make correlations between light and electron microscopy analyses possible, the DAB reaction product formed during photoconversion being electron dense. By combining a photoconversion approach with biolistic transfection of neurons in organotypic hippocampal slice cultures, we describe here a methodology that allowed us to study at the electron microscopy level the fine details of cells expressing specific genes of interest. The same approach has also been used to analyze the ultrastructural characteristics of specific cells such as neurons recorded with patch clamp techniques. This approach revealed particularly useful for studies of dendritic arborisation, dendritic spines, and axon varicosities of identified cells, as precise morphometric parameters of these structures can only be obtained by electron microscopy. The techniques used for fluorescent staining and photoconversion of these different cell structures and the results obtained by electron microscopic analyses are described.
Data gathered from a study of reserve component (RC) soldiers who were activated during the spring of 2002, following the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, suggested that they were concerned about how the effects of their activation affected their civilian employment. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to obtain this information from the civilian employers of these RC soldiers. Most civilian employers who participated in this study (N = 28) were male (89%) and working in law enforcement (39%). Fifty-six percent of employers gave consent to be interviewed by telephone. Although supervisors reported difficulties in several areas of operation and aspects of the RC activation, they still supported the activation of their RC employees and their military mission. This study is a significant start to illuminating the important roles that both RC employees and their civilian employers play in homeland defense.
Par-4, discovered in a screen for genes whose expression is increased in prostate tumor cells undergoing apoptosis, participates in physiological and pathological nerve cell death. A new study, however, provides evidence for an unexpected role for Par-4 in regulating synaptic transmission in the brain: Par-4 binds to the D2 dopamine receptor (D2DR) and modulates its activity. Mice in which the function of Par-4 is disrupted exhibit impaired dopaminergic neurotransmission, resulting in a depression-like syndrome. Several other cell death-related proteins also appear to function in regulating synaptic plasticity, suggesting that a better understanding of the functions of these proteins may lead to novel therapeutic approaches for a psychiatric and neurodegenerative disorders.
Experimental research examining the neural bases of nondeclarative memory has offered intriguing insight into how functional and dysfunctional implicit learning affects the brain. Long-term modifications of synaptic transmission, in particular, are currently considered the most plausible mechanism underlying memory trace encoding and compulsions, addiction, anxiety, and phobias. Therefore, an effective psychotherapy must be directed to erase maladaptive implicit memories and aberrant synaptic plasticity. This article describes the neurobiological bases of pathogenic memory disruption to provide some insight into how psychotherapy works. At least two mechanisms of unwanted memory erasing appear to be implicated in the effects of psychotherapy: inhibition of memory consolidation/reconsolidation and extinction. Behavioral evidence demonstrated that these two ways to forget are profoundly distinct in nature, and it is increasingly clear that their cellular, synaptic, and molecular underpinnings are different. Accordingly, the blockade of consolidation/reconsolidation erases memories by reversing the plasticity associated with memory maintenance, whereas extinction is a totally new form of plasticity that, similar to the plasticity underlying the old memory, requires protein synthesis-dependent synaptic remodeling.
Translational repression is a key component of the mechanism that establishes segment polarity during early embryonic development in the fruitfly Drosophila melanogaster. Two proteins, Pumilio (Pum) and Nanos, block the translation of hunchback messenger RNA in only the posterior segments, thereby promoting an abdominal fate. More recent studies focusing on postembryonic neuronal function have shown that Pum is also integral to numerous mechanisms that allow neurons to adapt to the changing requirements placed on them in a dynamic nervous system. These mechanisms include those contributing to dendritic structure, synaptic growth, neuronal excitability, and formation of long-term memory. This article describes these new studies and highlights the role of translational repression in regulation of neuronal processes that compensate for change.
The activation of neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) has been implicated in the activity-dependent development and plasticity of retina and the refinement of retinal projections. Pharmacological and functional studies have also indicated that different presynaptic nAChRs can have a modulatory function in retinotectal synapses. We biochemically and pharmacologically identified the multiple nAChR subtypes expressed on retinal afferents of the superior colliculus (SC) and lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN). We found that the alpha6beta2(*) and alpha4(nonalpha6)beta2(*) nAChRs are the major receptor populations expressed in both SC and LGN. In addition, the LGN contains two minor populations of alpha2alpha6beta2(*) and alpha3beta2(*) subtypes, whereas the SC contains a relatively large population of a new native subtype, the alpha3beta2(alpha5/beta3) nAChR. This subtype binds the alpha-conotoxin MII with an affinity 50 times lower than that of the native alpha6beta2(*) subtype. Studies of tissues obtained from eye-enucleated animals allowed the identification of nAChRs expressed by retinal afferents: in SC alpha6beta2(*), alpha4alpha6beta2(*), and alpha3beta2(*) (approximately 45, 35, and 20%, respectively), in LGN, alpha4alpha6beta2(*), alpha6beta2(*), alpha4beta2(*), alpha2alpha6beta2(*), and alpha3beta2(*) (approximately 40, 30, 20, 5, and 5%, respectively). In both regions, more than 50% of nAChRs were not expressed by retinal afferents and belonged to the alpha4beta2(*) (90%) or alpha4alpha5beta2(*) (10%) subtypes. Moreover, studies of the SC tissues obtained from wild-type and alpha4, alpha6, and beta3 knockout mice confirmed and extended the data obtained in rat tissue and allowed a comprehensive dissection of the composition of nAChR subtypes present in this retinorecipient area.
In this study, we describe the pharmacological characterization of novel aryl-ether, biaryl, and fluorene aspartic acid and diaminopropionic acid analogs as potent inhibitors of EAAT2, the predominant glutamate transporter in forebrain regions. The rank order of potency determined for the inhibition of human EAAT2 was N(4)-[4-(2-bromo-4,5-difluorophenoxy)phenyl]-L-asparagine (WAY-213613) (IC(50) = 85 +/- 5 nM) &gt; N(4)-(2'-methyl-1,1'-biphenyl-4-yl)-L-asparagine (WAY-213394) (IC(50) = 145 +/- 22 nM) = N(4)-[7-(trifluoromethyl)-9H-fluoren-2-yl]-L-asparagine (WAY-212922) (IC(50) = 157 +/- 11 nM) = 3-{[(4'-chloro-2-methyl-1,1'-biphenyl-4-yl)carbonyl]amino}-L-alanine (WAY-211686) (IC(50) = 190 +/- 10 nM). WAY-213613 was the most selective of the compounds examined, with IC(50) values for inhibition of EAAT1 and EAAT3 of 5 and 3.8 microM, respectively, corresponding to a 59- and 45-fold selectivity toward EAAT2. An identical rank order of potency [WAY-213613 (35 +/- 7 nM) &gt; WAY-213394 (92 +/- 13 nM) = WAY-212922 (95 +/- 8 nM) = WAY-211686 (101 +/- 20 nM)] was observed for the inhibition of glutamate uptake in rat cortical synaptosomes, consistent with the predominant contribution of EAAT2 to this activity. Kinetic studies with each of the compounds in synaptosomes revealed a competitive mechanism of inhibition. All compounds were determined to be nonsubstrates by evaluating both the stimulation of currents in EAAT2-injected oocytes and the heteroexchange of d-[(3)H]aspartate from cortical synaptosomes. WAY-213613 represents the most potent and selective inhibitor of EAAT2 identified to date. Taken in combination with its selectivity over ionotropic and metabotropic glutamate receptors, this compound represents a potential tool for the further elucidation of EAAT2 function.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a fatal neurodegenerative disorder caused by the presence of an abnormally expanded polyglutamine domain in the N-terminus of huntingtin. We developed a recombinant adeno-associated viral serotype 5 (rAAV5) gene transfer strategy to posttranscriptionally suppress the levels of striatal mutant huntingtin (mHtt) in the R6/1 HD transgenic mouse via RNA interference. Transient cotransfection of HEK293 cells with plasmids expressing a portion of human mHtt derived from R6/1 transgenic HD mice and a short-hairpin RNA directed against the 5' UTR of the mHtt mRNA (siHUNT-1) resulted in reduction in the levels of mHtt mRNA (-75%) and protein (-60%). Long-term in vivo rAAV5-mediated expression of siHUNT-1 in the striatum of R6/1 mice reduced the levels of mHtt mRNA (-78%) and protein (-28%) as determined by quantitative RT-PCR and Western blot analysis, respectively. The reduction in mHtt was concomitant with a reduction in the size and number of neuronal intranuclear inclusions and a small but significant normalization of the steady-state levels of preproenkephalin and dopamine- and cAMP-responsive phosphoprotein 32 kDa mRNA. Finally, bilateral expression of rAAV5-siHUNT-1 resulted in delayed onset of the rear paw clasping phenotype exhibited by the R6/1 mice. These results suggest that a reduction in the levels of striatal mHtt can ameliorate the HD phenotype of R6/1 mice.
To date, the etiology of multiple system atrophy (MSA) has proved impenetrable. We investigated the role of genetic variation in the UCHL-1 gene in MSA and looked for the presence of disease susceptibility alleles. We determined the linkage disequilibrium structure of the gene and employed a haplotype tagging strategy with power to represent 95% of the haplotype diversity. This approach was performed using a set of tagging single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) that can infer the allelic state of all the common SNPs in UCHL-1 with a high coefficient of determination. This strategy enabled us to scan across the gene and maintain the power to detect signal(s) from any potential functional variant(s). In 257 Gilman-probable or -definite MSA subjects and 1,536 controls, we did not detect a case-control frequency difference for either the tagged haplotypes or for individual tagging SNPs. This search included the S18Y variant of UCHL-1, which has been reported to be protective in Parkinson's disease.
We examined 7 patients from a family harboring a novel mutation in the alpha-synuclein gene (E46K) that segregated with a phenotype of parkinsonism and dementia with Lewy bodies. An abnormal restless sleep was the presenting symptom in 2 of them. Polysomnographic (PSG) studies were performed in 4 of the 7 patients and in 2 asymptomatic carriers of the mutation. A severe loss of both rapid eye movement (REM) and non-REM sleep was observed in 2 patients complaining of insomnia and in a third parkinsonian member of the family who did not complain of trouble with sleeping. Another parkinsonian family member had a mild disorganization of the sleep architecture. The 2 asymptomatic carriers also had minor changes in the PSG findings. Episodes of bizarre behavior at night were reported historically in the 2 symptomatic patients, but we did not observed the behaviors during the PSG studies. REM sleep behavior disorder could not be recorded in any case. Our findings expand the spectrum of sleep disorders reported in synucleinopathies whether sporadic or familial.
Muscle cramps are a common problem characterized by a sudden, painful, involuntary contraction of muscle. These true cramps, which originate from peripheral nerves, may be distinguished from other muscle pain or spasm. Medical history, physical examination, and a limited laboratory screen help to determine the various causes of muscle cramps. Despite the &quot;benign&quot; nature of cramps, many patients find the symptom very uncomfortable. Treatment options are guided both by experience and by a limited number of therapeutic trials. Quinine sulfate is an effective medication, but the side-effect profile is worrisome, and other membrane-stabilizing drugs are probably just as effective. Patients will benefit from further studies to better define the pathophysiology of muscle cramps and to find more effective medications with fewer side-effects.
Membrane proteins represent approximately 30% of the proteome in both prokaryotes and eukaryotes. The spatial localization of membrane-bound proteins is often determined by specific sequence motifs that may be regulated in response to physiological changes, such as protein interactions and receptor signalling. Identification of signalling motifs is therefore important for understanding membrane protein expression, function and transport mechanisms. We report a genetic isolation of novel motifs that confer surface expression. Further characterization showed that SWTY, one class of these isolated motifs with homology to previously reported forward transport motifs, has the ability to both override the RKR endoplasmic reticulum localization signal and potentiate steady-state surface expression. The genetically isolated SWTY motif is functionally interchangeable with a known motif in cardiac potassium channels and an identified motif in an HIV coreceptor, and operates by recruiting 14-3-3 proteins. This study expands the repertoire of and enables a screening method for membrane trafficking signals.
The importance of locating proteins in their context within cells has been heightened recently by the accomplishments in molecular structure and systems biology. Although light microscopy (LM) has been extensively used for mapping protein localization, many studies require the additional resolution of the electron microscope. Here we report the application of small nanocrystals (Quantum dots; QDs) to specifically and efficiently label multiple distinct endogenous proteins. QDs are both fluorescent and electron dense, facilitating their use for correlated microscopic analysis. Furthermore, QDs can be discriminated optically by their emission wavelength and physically by size, making them invaluable for multilabeling analysis. We developed pre-embedding labeling criteria using QDs that allows optimization at the light level, before continuing with electron microscopy (EM). We provide examples of double and triple immunolabeling using light, electron and correlated microscopy in rat cells and mouse tissue. We conclude that QDs aid precise high-throughput determination of protein distribution.
In this study, we assess the impact of normal aging on top-down modulation, a cognitive control mechanism that supports both attention and memory by the suppression and enhancement of sensory processing in accordance with task goals. Using fMRI (functional magnetic resonance imaging), we show that healthy older adults demonstrated a prominent deficit in the suppression of cortical activity associated with task-irrelevant representations, whereas enhancement of task-relevant activity was preserved. Moreover, this suppression-specific attention deficit correlated with impaired working memory performance.
Neurons in sensory systems respond to stimuli within their receptive fields, but the magnitude of the response depends on specific stimulus features. In the rodent whisker system, the response magnitude to the deflection of a particular whisker is, in most cells, dependent on the direction of deflection. Here we use in vivo intracellular recordings from thalamorecipient neurons in layers 3 and 4 of the rat barrel cortex to elucidate the dynamics of the synaptic inputs underlying direction selectivity. We show that cells are direction selective despite a broadly tuned excitatory and inhibitory synaptic input. Selectivity emerges from a direction-dependent temporal shift of excitation relative to inhibition. For preferred direction deflections, excitation precedes inhibition, but as the direction diverges from the preferred, this separation decreases. Our results illustrate a mechanism by which the timing of the synaptic inputs, and not their relative peak amplitudes, primarily determine feature selectivity.
Vocal communicators discriminate conspecific vocalizations from other sounds and recognize the vocalizations of individuals. To identify neural mechanisms for the discrimination of such natural sounds, we compared the linear spectro-temporal tuning properties of auditory midbrain and forebrain neurons in zebra finches with the statistics of natural sounds, including song. Here, we demonstrate that ensembles of auditory neurons are tuned to auditory features that enhance the acoustic differences between classes of natural sounds, and among the songs of individual birds. Tuning specifically avoids the spectro-temporal modulations that are redundant across natural sounds and therefore provide little information; rather, it overlaps with the temporal modulations that differ most across sounds. By comparing the real tuning and a less selective model of spectro-temporal tuning, we found that the real modulation tuning increases the neural discrimination of different sounds. Additionally, auditory neurons discriminate among zebra finch song segments better than among synthetic sound segments.
The list of developmental and degenerative diseases that are caused by expansion of unstable repeats continues to grow, and is now approaching 20 disorders. The pathogenic mechanisms that underlie these disorders involve either loss of protein function or gain of function at the protein or RNA level. Common themes have emerged within and between these different classes of disease; for example, among disorders that are caused by gain-of-function mechanisms, altered protein conformations are central to pathogenesis, leading to changes in protein activity or abundance. In all these diseases, the context of the expanded repeat and the abundance, subcellular localization and interactions of the proteins and RNAs that are affected have key roles in disease-specific phenotypes.
Semaphorins are secreted or transmembrane proteins that regulate cell motility and attachment in axon guidance, vascular growth, immune cell regulation and tumour progression. The main receptors for semaphorins are plexins, which have established roles in regulating Rho-family GTPases. Recent work shows that plexins can also influence R-Ras, which, in turn, can regulate integrins. Such regulation is probably a common feature of semaphorin signalling and contributes substantially to our understanding of semaphorin biology.
Moral cognitive neuroscience is an emerging field of research that focuses on the neural basis of uniquely human forms of social cognition and behaviour. Recent functional imaging and clinical evidence indicates that a remarkably consistent network of brain regions is involved in moral cognition. These findings are fostering new interpretations of social behavioural impairments in patients with brain dysfunction, and require new approaches to enable us to understand the complex links between individuals and society. Here, we propose a cognitive neuroscience view of how cultural and context-dependent knowledge, semantic social knowledge and motivational states can be integrated to explain complex aspects of human moral cognition.
Apraxic phenomena occur in various neurological conditions. Selective motion control is viewed as the basic capacity to make fine and precise, isolated or independent face or limb movements. Its deficit can indicate limb-kinetic apraxia if it is not explained by paresis, somatosensory deafferentation, or ataxia. The core deficit in ideomotor apraxia could be deficient movement representations, i.e. the combination of invariant features of intrinsic and extrinsic coding for a given movement, which are most important when movements have to be performed outside their typical context. Ideational apraxia would be defined by a semantic deficit related to action. Frontal apraxia is characterised by an action-sequencing deficit. A detailed model is proposed regarding processes relevant to praxis.
We extend Linkser's Infomax principle for feedforward neural networks to a measure for stochastic interdependence that captures spatial and temporal signal properties in recurrent systems. This measure, stochastic interaction, quantifies the Kullback-Leibler divergence of a Markov chain from a product of split chains for the single unit processes. For unconstrained Markov chains, the maximization of stochastic interaction, also called Temporal Infomax, has been previously shown to result in almost deterministic dynamics. This letter considers Temporal Infomax on constrained Markov chains, where some of the units are clamped to prescribed stochastic processes providing input to the system. Temporal Infomax in that case leads to finite state automata, either completely deterministic or weakly nondeterministic. Transitions between internal states of these systems are almost perfectly predictable given the complete current state and the input, but the activity of each single unit alone is virtually random. The results are demonstrated by means of computer simulations and confirmed analytically. It is furthermore shown numerically that Temporal Infomax leads to a high information flow from the input to internal units and that a simple temporal learning rule can approximately achieve the optimization of temporal interaction. We relate these results to experimental data concerning the correlation dynamics and functional connectivities observed in multiple electrode recordings.
Oscillatory and synchronized neural activities are commonly found in the brain, and evidence suggests that many of them are caused by global feedback. Their mechanisms and roles in information processing have been discussed often using purely feedforward networks or recurrent networks with constant inputs. On the other hand, real recurrent neural networks are abundant and continually receive information-rich inputs from the outside environment or other parts of the brain. We examine how feedforward networks of spiking neurons with delayed global feedback process information about temporally changing inputs. We show that the network behavior is more synchronous as well as more correlated with and phase-locked to the stimulus when the stimulus frequency is resonant with the inherent frequency of the neuron or that of the network oscillation generated by the feedback architecture. The two eigenmodes have distinct dynamical characteristics, which are supported by numerical simulations and by analytical arguments based on frequency response and bifurcation theory. This distinction is similar to the class I versus class II classification of single neurons according to the bifurcation from quiescence to periodic firing, and the two modes depend differently on system parameters. These two mechanisms may be associated with different types of information processing.
Plaques are a defining neuropathological hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and the major constituent of plaques, the beta-amyloid peptide (Abeta), is considered to play an important role in the pathophysiology of AD. But the biological origin of Abeta plaques and the mechanism whereby Abeta is involved in pathogenesis have been unknown. Abeta plaques were thought to form from the gradual accumulation and aggregation of secreted Abeta in the extracellular space. More recently, the accumulation of Abeta has been demonstrated to occur within neurons with AD pathogenesis. Moreover, intraneuronal Abeta accumulation has been reported to be critical in the synaptic dysfunction, cognitive dysfunction and the formation of plaques in AD. Here we provide a historical overview on the origin of plaques and a discussion on potential biological and therapeutic implications of intraneuronal Abeta accumulation for AD.
The cause of idiopathic PD is obscure, and most cases are sporadic. Oxidative stress and deficiency of various neurotrophic factors (NTFs) could be factors triggering neurodegeneration in the substantia nigra (SN). Cytoplasmic hybrid cells (cybrids) made from mitochondrial DNA of idiopathic PD subjects have reduced glutathione (GSH) levels and increased vulnerability to H2O2. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) rescue PD cybrids from H2O2-induced cell death. GDNF mediated effects require Src kinase and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/Akt activation. Inhibiting either PI3K/Akt or ERK pathways blocks the effects of BDNF. Inhibiting p38MAPK and c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) pathways enhances the neuroprotective effects of both NTFs. These results demonstrate that expression of PD mitochondrial genes in cybrids increases vulnerability to oxidative stress that is ameliorated by both BDNF and GDNF, which utilize distinct signaling cascades to increase intracellular GSH and enhance survival-promoting cell signaling.
Glucose deprivation of astrocytes results in an elevation of cytosolic calcium concentration ([Ca2+]i) [Kahlert, S., Reiser, G., 2000. Requirement of glycolytic and mitochondrial energy supply for loading of Ca2+ stores and InsP3-mediated Ca2+ signaling in rat hippocampus astrocytes. J. Neurosci. Res. 61, 409-420; Silver, I.A., Deas, J., Erecinska, M., 1997. Ion homeostasis in brain cells: differences in intracellular ion responses to energy limitation between cultured neurons and glial cells. Neuroscience 78, 589-601] equivalent to an impairment of astrocytic energy metabolism and function. Superfusion of fura-2 loaded primary cortical astrocytes with glucose-free solution triggered a slow and progressive, 56-fold increase of the [Ca2+]i from 60 nM up to 3.3 microM within 2 h. Re-addition of glucose led to a rapid drop of [Ca2+]i, yet [Ca2+]i did not fully recover to the low levels recorded prior to glucose deprivation and, moreover, astrocytic Ca2+ signaling was impaired: adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) and uridine 5'-triphosphate (UTP) were no longer able to trigger a transient Ca2+ response as recorded in controls. 17beta-estradiol protected astrocytes from the glucose deprivation-induced [Ca2+]i increase and the impaired signaling independently of the nuclear estrogen receptor, as the antiestrogen tamoxifen and the protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide did not impede the protective effect of 17beta-estradiol.
Complement activation in the brain contributes to the pathology of neuroinflammatory and neurodegenerative diseases such as neuro-AIDS. Using semiquantitative in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry, we observed an early and sustained increase in the expression of C1q, the initial recognition subcomponent of the classical complement cascade, in the CNS during simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) infection of rhesus macaques. Cells of the microglial/macrophage lineage were the sources for C1q protein and transcripts. C1q expression was observed in proliferating and infiltrating cells in SIV-encephalitic brains. All SIV-positive cells were also C1q-positive. Treatment with the CNS-permeant antiretroviral agent 6-chloro-2',3'-dideoxyguanosine decreased C1q synthesis along with SIV burden and focal inflammatory reactions in the brains of AIDS-symptomatic monkeys. Thus, activation of the classical complement arm of innate immunity is an early event in neuro-AIDS and a possible target for intervention.
We describe a patient who came to neurological attention because of his at-risk status for the +16 exon 10 splice mutation in the tau gene (microtubule associated protein tau, MAPT), which had given rise to progressive behavioural disturbances in two of his siblings. The patient began to exhibit early signs of behavioural disturbance at around the age of symptom onset in both of his siblings. Although he did not spontaneously complain of difficulties in the domain of language, he met clinical, radiological and neuropsychological criteria for semantic dementia. On the assumption that his illness is mediated by the same pathological process as those of his siblings, we propose that this clinical picture represents the earliest changes of a semantic impairment - a phase of the illness that is often retrospectively described by patients and their relations, but has never previously been documented at first hand. Although typical of semantic dementia in many respects, the illness had several interesting and atypical features that emerged on detailed testing: first, he exhibited no insight into his difficulties; secondly, progression over a twelve-month interval was unusually slow; thirdly, he evinced a striking and consistent advantage for nonliving over living concepts; fourthly, a differential impairment of distinctive over shared knowledge did not emerge except when items that he could still name were compared with those for which he was anomic. Finally, the availability of post mortem pathological analysis from the brains of both of his affected siblings allowed us to attribute his illness to a specific pathological process which is considered unusual for patients with this clinical phenotype.
This article reports the findings from 3 patients with semantic dementia (SD) who were given a novel battery of 33 items from sensory quality categories (SQCs) as previously described by Borgo and Shallice (2001; 2003) and Laiacona, Capitani and Caramazza (2003). Their performance on three tasks (two naming, one word-to-picture matching) was compared with performance on similar tasks using a conventional semantic battery. At the group level, patients performed worse than age-matched controls overall, but neither group showed any differences in performance between domains (i.e., living, nonliving and SQCs). Individual patient analyses, however, showed contrasting profiles in the three patients. The results are discussed in terms of the SFT (Warrington &amp; Shallice, 1984) and individual differences (Lambon-Ralph et al., 2003) accounts of category-specificity in SD.
Adenosine is a neuromodulator that can control brain damage through activation of A(1), A(2A) and A(3) receptors, which are located in both neurons and other brain cells. We took advantage of cultured neurons to investigate the role of neuronal adenosine receptors in the control of neurotoxicity caused by kainate and cyclothiazide. Both A(1), A(2A) and A(3) receptors were immunocytochemically identified in cortical neurons. Activation of A(1) receptors with 100 nM CPA did not modify the extent of neuronal death whereas the A(1) receptor antagonist, DPCPX (50 nM), attenuated neurotoxicity by 28 +/- 5%, and effect similar to that resulting from the removal of endogenous adenosine with 2U/ml of adenosine deaminase (27 +/- 3% attenuation of neurotoxicity). In the presence of adenosine deaminase, DPCPX had no further effect and CPA now exacerbated neurotoxicity by 42 +/- 4%. Activation of A(2A) receptor with 30 nM CGS21680 attenuated neurotoxicity by 40 +/- 8%, an effect prevented by the A(2A) receptor antagonists, SCH58261 (50 nM) or ZM241385 (50 nM), which by themselves were devoid of effect. Finally, neither A(3) receptor activation with Cl-IB-MECA (100-500 nM) nor blockade with MRS1191 (5 microM) modified neurotoxicity. These results show that A(1) receptor activation enhances and A(2A) receptor activation attenuates neurotoxicity in cultured cortical neurons, indicating that these two neuronal adenosine receptors directly control neurodegeneration. Interestingly, the control by adenosine of neurotoxicity in cultured neurons is similar to that observed in vivo in newborn animals and is the opposite of what is observed in adult brain preparations where A(1) receptor activation and A(2A) receptor blockade are neuroprotective.
The subsynaptic distribution of kainate receptors is still a matter of much debate given its importance to understand the way they influence neuronal communication. Here, we show that, in synapses of the rat hippocampus, presynaptic kainate receptors are localized within the presynaptic active zone close to neurotransmitter release sites. The activation of these receptors with low concentrations of agonists induces the release of [(3)H]glutamate in the absence of a depolarizing stimulus. Furthermore, this modulation of [(3)H]glutamate release by kainate is more efficient when compared with a KCl-evoked depolarization that causes a more than two-fold increase in the intra-terminal calcium concentration but no apparent release of [(3)H]glutamate, suggesting a direct receptor-mediated process. Using a selective synaptic fractionation technique that allows for a highly efficient separation of presynaptic, postsynaptic and non-synaptic proteins we confirmed that, presynaptically, kainate receptors are mainly localized within the active zone of hippocampal synapses where they are expected to be in a privileged position to modulate synaptic phenomena.
Endothelin (ETB)-receptors mediate anti-apoptotic actions. Lack of functional ETB-receptors leads to increased neuronal apoptosis in the hippocampus. The increased apoptosis must be compensated by other mechanisms, however, as ETB-deficient rats display normal overall brain morphology. To illuminate on brain plasticity in ETB-receptor deficiency, we studied the expression and function of another neuroprotective system, the cannabinoid CB1-receptors, in ETB-deficient hippocampus. We show that CB1 expression in hippocampus increases postnatally in all rats but that the increase in CB1-receptor expression is significantly higher in ETB-deficient compared to wildtype littermates. Neuronal apoptosis decreases during brain maturation but remains on a significantly higher level in the ETB-deficient compared to wildtype dentate. When investigating survival of hippocampal neurons in culture, we found significant protection against hypoxia-induced cell death with CB1-analogs (noladin, (9-tetrahydrocannabinol) only in ETB-deficient neurons. We suggest that CB1-receptor upregulation in the ETB-mutant hippocampus reflects an attempt to compensate for the lack of ETB-receptors.
Neuronal differentiation and aging are known to involve many genes, which may also be differentially expressed during these developmental processes. From primary cultured cerebral cortical neurons, we have previously identified various differentially expressed gene transcripts from cultured cortical neurons using the technique of arbitrarily primed PCR (RAP-PCR). Among these transcripts, clone 0-2 was found to have high homology to rat and human synaptic glycoprotein. By in silico analysis using an EST database and the FACTURA software, the full-length sequence of 0-2 was assembled and the clone was named as mouse synaptic glycoprotein homolog 2 (mSC2). DNA sequencing revealed transcript size of mSC2 being smaller than the human and rat homologs. RT-PCR indicated that mSC2 was expressed differentially at various culture days. The mSC2 gene was located in various tissues with higher expression in brain, lung, and liver. Functions of mSC2 in neurons and other tissues remain elusive and will require more investigation.
Transglutaminase activity was found to be present in highly purified non-synaptosomal rat brain mitochondria. A 78-kDa protein in these organelles was shown to be a transglutaminase 2 substrate, and incubation of a non-synaptosomal mitochondrial lysate with transglutaminase 2 yielded high-Mr proteins. The 78-kDa protein was identified as mitochondrial aconitase by MALDI-TOF analysis. Aconitase activity was decreased in a dose-dependent manner when non-synaptosomal rat brain mitochondria were incubated with transglutaminase 2. Transglutaminase activity is increased about 2-fold in the mitochondrial fraction of HD caudate. Moreover, Western blotting of the mitochondrial fraction revealed that most of the mitochondrial aconitase in HD caudate is present as high-Mr aggregates. Aconitase activity was previously shown to be decreased in Huntington disease (HD) caudate (a region severely damaged by the disease). The present findings suggest that an increase of transglutaminase activity in HD caudate may contribute to mitochondrial dysfunction by incorporating aconitase into inactive polymers.




The contribution of anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) to human cognition remains unclear. The rostral (rACC) and dorsal (dACC) ACC cortex are implicated in tasks that require increased response control due to emotional and cognitive interference, respectively. However, both rACC and dACC are activated by conditions that induce changes in visceral arousal, suggesting that ACC supports a generation of integrated bodily responses. To clarify the relationship between purely cognitive and psychophysiological accounts of ACC function, we scanned 15 subjects using functional magnetic resonance imaging while they performed numerical versions of the Stroop task. To index autonomic arousal, we simultaneously measured pupil diameter. Performance errors accounted for most of the variance in a pupil-derived measure of evoked autonomic arousal. In analysis of the functional imaging data, activity within a region spanning rACC and dACC predicted trial-by-trial variation in autonomic response magnitude and was enhanced during error trials, shown using conjunction analyses. Activity within other loci within rACC predicted evoked autonomic arousal and showed sensitivity to errors but did not meet criteria for both. These data highlight the role of ACC in psychophysiological aspects of error processing and suggest that an interface exists within ACC between cognitive and biobehavioral systems in the service of response adaptation.

The posterior medial parietal cortex and left prefrontal cortex (PFC) have both been implicated in the recollection of past episodes. In a previous study, we found the posterior precuneus and left lateral inferior frontal cortex to be activated during episodic source memory retrieval. This study further examines the role of posterior precuneal and left prefrontal activation during episodic source memory retrieval using a similar source memory paradigm but with longer latency between encoding and retrieval. Our results suggest that both the precuneus and the left inferior PFC are important for regeneration of rich episodic contextual associations and that the precuneus activates in tandem with the left inferior PFC during correct source retrieval. Further, results suggest that the left ventro-lateral frontal region/frontal operculum is involved in searching for task-relevant information (BA 47) and subsequent monitoring or scrutiny (BA 44/45) while regions in the dorsal inferior frontal cortex are important for information selection (BA 45/46).
Event-related fMRI is a powerful tool for localising psychological functions to specific brain areas. However, the number of events required to produce stable activation maps is a poorly investigated and understood problem. Huettel and McCarthy [Huettel, S.A., McCarthy, G., 2001. The effects of single-trial averaging upon the spatial extent of fMRI activation. NeuroReport 12, 2411-2416] have shown that the spatial extent of activation increases monotonically with the number of events in an analysis. In the present paper, this result is replicated and shown to be a consequence of the cross-correlation technique used to determine active voxels and does not hold, for example, for a GLM analysis. Another analysis technique, that does not depend on goodness-of-fit to the data, is also proposed. This technique calculates an impulse response function (IRF) for each voxel, finds the best fitting haemodynamic shape to the IRF and returns an area-under-the-curve (%AUC) activation measure. Using spatial extent as a measure, asymptotic behaviour is evident after as few as 25 events for the %AUC analysis technique in a finger-tapping task with non-overlapping haemodynamic responses and for both the GLM and %AUC techniques in a similar task that allows responses to overlap. The experimental validity of the %AUC technique to identify active brain regions while minimising false positive levels is demonstrated in a group study with 25 participants.
A 67-year-old man presented with multiple aneurysms arising from the caudal loop of the posterior inferior cerebellar artery (PICA), possibly as a result of blunt trauma. Computed tomography of the head revealed subarachnoid hemorrhage in the posterior fossa and sylvian fissure. Repeated angiography demonstrated an aneurysmal dilatation and an irregular wall on the caudal loop of the PICA. Under the operating microscope, two lesions were observed 10 mm distal to the apex of the caudal loop, both consisting of a tiny hole on the vessel wall with a fragile fringe of connective tissue and covered with a firm clot. The height of the lesions corresponded to the C-l lamina, so the lesions were probably traumatic rather than saccular.
Microglial cells comprise a network of endogenous immunocompetent cells that pervade the brain and spinal cord. The primary function of this system is to provide continuous surveillance of the parenchyma and protect the central nervous system (CNS) during injury and disease. Here we discuss the involvement of microglia during brain aging and aging-related neurodegenerative disease, i.e. Alzheimer's disease, and briefly summarize their possible roles in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). In addition, we provide an overview of the neuroinflammation associated with primary brain tumors and how microglial tumor cytotoxicity could be targeted for immunotherapeutic approaches designed to treat these lesions.
Associations between psychopathology and gender, duration of MS, disability and therapy with beta-interferons were studied in multiple sclerosis (MS) outpatients. A controlled descriptive epidemiological study was carried out in two Italian outpatient MS centres on 50 outpatients with clinically definite relapsing-remitting MS presenting for regular follow-up and 50 healthy controls matched for sex, age and educational level. Subjects were assessed with the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV (SCID I), the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI) and the State Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI). MS patients reported a higher prevalence of psychiatric disorders (odds ratio 3.17), with 46% (n=23) suffering from major depressive disorder. The risk of suffering from any non-mood psychiatric disorder was also higher in MS patients than in controls (odds ratio 2.67). Risk factors for depression were female sex and severity of disability, but not therapy with interferon beta or longer duration of illness. Disability level, but not therapy with beta-interferons, is a risk factor for depression in MS outpatients. Regular screening for depression in this population is appropriate.
To compare various novel and conventional systems for locomotion, a 25-year-old man was studied with motor complete spinal cord injury at the T4/5 level. He used various devices in the community, and changes in speed, physiological cost index (PCI), and oxygen consumption were measured periodically. Speed was fastest with a conventional manual wheelchair (nearly 120m/min in a 4-min test). Speed was about 30% less, but the PCI was lowest (highest efficiency) using functional electrical stimulation (FES) of the quadriceps and hamstring muscles to propel a novel wheelchair. He walked with knee-ankle-foot orthoses (KAFO) at much lower speed (8.8m/min) and higher PCI. He walked with an alternating gait using a new stance-control KAFO with FES. The speed was still slow (5m/min), but he prefers the more normal-looking gait and uses it daily. Walking with FES and ankle-foot orthoses (AFO) was slowest (3.5m/min) and had the highest PCI. In conclusion, the leg-propelled wheelchair provides a more efficient method of locomotion. A new stance-controlled KAFO with FES may provide a more acceptable walking system, but must be tested on other subjects.
We recently described a dominant limb myopathy characterised by early respiratory failure whilst affected individuals were still ambulant (autosomal dominant myopathy with early respiratory failure). Early diagnosis and exclusion of this disorder is difficult because of the insidious onset in late adult life and the highly selective muscle involvement, both clinically and pathologically. We performed muscle magnetic resonance imaging on seven cases of autosomal dominant myopathy with early respiratory failure (age range 37-66 years, 4 male) and show selective early involvement of semitendinosus and obturator externus on magnetic resonance imaging that cannot be detected clinically, with different rates of progression in closely related muscles. These findings are specific to autosomal dominant myopathy with early respiratory failure and enable early non-invasive diagnosis for individuals at risk.
In a nerve crush model of denervation, we examined muscle matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) expression, localization and activity. In normal muscle, MMP mRNA levels were low, and immunohistochemically MMPs were distributed around the muscle fibre with MMPs-3, -7 and -9 also staining at the neuromuscular junction. Seven days after nerve crush, muscle MMP immunoreactivity, especially MMP-12 and MMP-14, became irregularly distributed. At 20 days reinnervation of the muscle was observed, and some restitution of the normal pattern of immunoreactivity was noted concomitant with a higher level of MMP mRNA expression. In situ zymography showed that MMP activity was very weak in normal muscle whereas it was increased up to 40 days following denervation. Our results suggest that MMPs in muscle are involved in the tissue changes following denervation. Further experiments are required to test the hypothesis that MMP inhibition may be beneficial in protecting muscle from excessive remodelling following denervation and therefore improve reinnervation.
Mucopolysaccharidosis (MPS) type VI, also known as Maroteaux-Lamy disease, is an inherited disorder of glycosaminoglycan catabolism caused by deficient activity of the lysosomal hydrolase, N-acetylgalactosamine 4-sulphatase (4S). A variety of prominent visceral and skeletal defects are characteristic, but primary neurological involvement has generally been considered absent. We report here that the feline model of MPS VI exhibits abnormal lysosomal storage in occasional neurones and glia distributed throughout the cerebral cortex. Abnormal lysosomal inclusions were pleiomorphic with some resembling zebra bodies and dense core inclusions typical of other MPS diseases or the membranous storage bodies characteristic of the gangliosidoses. Pyramidal neurones were shown to contain abnormal amounts of GM2 and GM3 gangliosides by immunocytochemical staining and unesterified cholesterol by histochemical (filipin) staining. Further, Golgi staining of pyramidal neurones revealed that some possessed ectopic axon hillock neurites and meganeurites similar to those described in Tay-Sachs and other neuronal storage diseases with ganglioside storage. Some animals evaluated in this study also received allogeneic bone marrow transplants, but no significant differences in neuronal storage were noted between treated and untreated individuals. These studies demonstrate that deficiency of 4S activity can lead to metabolic abnormalities in the neurones of central nervous system in cats, and that these changes may not be readily amenable to correction by bone marrow transplantation. Given the close pathological and biochemical similarities between feline and human MPS VI, it is conceivable that children with this disease have similar neuronal involvement.
We have previously demonstrated that amyloid beta (Abeta) peptide is acutely toxic to retinal neurones in vivo and that this toxicity is mediated by an indirect mechanism. We have now extended these studies to look at the chronic effect of intravitreal injection of Abeta peptides on retinal ganglion cells (RGC), the projection neurones of the retina and the glial cell response. 5 months after injection of Abeta1-42 or Abeta42-1 there was no significant reduction in RGC densities but there was a significant reduction in the retinal surface area after both peptides. Phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) injection had no effect on retinal size or RGC density. There was a pronounced reduction in the number of large RGCs with a concomitant significant increase in medium and small RGCs. There was no change in cell sizes 5 months after injection with PBS. At 5 months after injection of both peptides, there was marked activation of Muller glial cells and microglia. There was also expression of the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II molecule on some of the microglial cells but we saw no evidence of T-cell infiltration into the injected retinas. In order to elucidate potential toxic mechanisms, we have looked at levels of glutamine synthetase and nitric oxide synthase. As early as 2 days after injection we noted that activation of Muller glia was associated with a decrease in glutamine synthetase immuno-reactivity but there was no detectable expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase in any retinal cells. These results suggest that chronic activation of glial cells induced by Abeta peptides may result in chronic atrophy of projection neurones in the rat retina.
There is increasing evidence that apoptosis or a similar programmed cell death pathway is the mechanism of cell death responsible for motor neurone degeneration in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Knowledge of the relative importance of different caspases in the cell death process is at present incomplete. In addition, there is little information on the critical point of the death pathway when the process of dying becomes irreversible. In this study, using the well-established NSC34 motor neurone-like cell line stably transfected with empty vector, normal or mutant human Cu-Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD1), we have characterized the activation of the caspase cascade in detail, revealing that the activation of caspases-9, -3 and -8 are important in motor neurone death and that the presence of mutant SOD1 causes increased activation of components of the apoptotic cascade under both basal culture conditions and following oxidative stress induced by serum withdrawal. Activation of the caspases identified in the cellular model has been confirmed in the G93A SOD1 transgenic mice. Furthermore, investigation of the effects of anti-apoptotic neuroprotective agents including specific caspase inhibitors, minocycline and nifedipine, have supported the importance of the mitochondrion-dependent apoptotic pathway in the death process and revealed that the upstream caspase cascade needs to be inhibited if useful neuro-protection is to be achieved.
The rat preprotachykinin A (rtPPTA) promoter fragment spanning -865+92, relative to the major transcriptional start, has previously been demonstrated to be nerve growth factor (NGF) responsive in primary cultures of rat dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurones [Harrison, P.T., Dalziel, R.G., Ditchfield, N.A., Quinn, J.P., 1999. Neuronal-specific and nerve growth factor-inducible expression directed by the preprotachykinin-A promoter delivered by an adeno-associated virus vector. Neuroscience 94, 997-1003]. In this communication, we demonstrate that an E box element at -60, in part, regulates the activity of this rtPPT-A promoter fragment in DRG neurones in response to NGF. Differential regulation of the promoter is observed in the presence or absence of NGF when the E Box site is present. Under basal conditions binding of proteins to this -60 element may antagonise promoter activity. Hence, in the absence of NGF, mutation of the -60 E box increased reporter gene expression. Further, comparison of levels of reporter gene expression supported by both WT and mutated promoter indicate that in the presence of NGF the -60 E box element also plays a role as an activator domain. This represents a novel mechanism for NGF regulation of rtPPT-A. Similarly, an important role for this signalling pathway was observed in neonate rat DRG neuronal cultures, which require NGF for their survival, namely mutation of the -60 element resulted in higher levels of reporter gene expression.
Galanin (GAL) has been implicated in modulating anxiety, although a precise role remains unclear. Previous studies revealed anxiolytic effects, anxiogenic effects, or no effect, depending on the test, brain region, route of drug administration and context. We have shown previously that microinjection of the GAL antagonist M40 into central amygdala blocked an anxiolytic response to acute stress on the elevated plus maze when rats were pretreated with yohimbine, suggesting an anxiolytic effect of GAL. By contrast, we also showed that microinjection of M40 into the lateral bed nucleus of the stria terminalis attenuated anxiety-like behavioral responses to stress on the plus maze and social interaction tests, implying an anxiogenic effect for GAL. The behavioral response to stress on both these tests is a reduction of an ongoing behavior (open-arm exploration or social interaction, respectively). To better understand the anxiety-modulating role of GAL, it is also important to ascertain its effect on a response that represents an activation rather than suppression of behavior. Thus, in this study, we investigated an active behavioral response to acute stress in rats, the shock-probe defensive burying response. Bilateral microinjections of M40 into lateral septum (LS), a region important to this response and innervated by GAL, dose-dependently decreased burying without affecting immobility. No change was seen in hindpaw withdrawal latency on a thermosensitivity assay, suggesting that the reduction in burying behavior was not attributable to changes in cutaneous pain sensitivity. These results indicate that in LS, GAL facilitates the active anxiety-like behavioral response on the defensive burying test, similar to its facilitatory effect on anxiety-like stress-induced suppression of behavior in the lateral bed nucleus. These results highlight the fact that, rather than a unified system-like role in modulating anxiety, the effects of GAL can be either facilitating or attenuating, and are region-specific, context-specific and response-specific.
The identification of synaptic GABA(A) receptors has proved difficult as neurones express multiple GABA(A) receptor subunits. For example, cerebellar granule cells express alpha1, alpha6, gamma2, delta and beta2/3 subunits and thus express many different GABA(A) receptor subtypes. Furthermore, the contribution of individual GABA(A) receptor subtypes is changed by developmental alterations in subunit expression. To further characterise the pharmacology of Golgi cell to granule cell synapses during development, the benzodiazepine-site ligand zolpidem was used. Zolpidem shows selectivity for alpha1betaxgamma2 receptors (x is any beta subunit) and slows the decay and enhances the amplitude of alpha1betaxgamma2 receptor-mediated synaptic currents, provided the receptors are not fully occupied. For comparison, zolpidem was applied to Purkinje cell synapses, since the synaptic receptors are of known composition (alpha1betaxgamma2). At immature and adult Golgi cell to granule cell synapses, the decay of spontaneous and miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents (sIPSCs and mIPSCs) was slowed by zolpidem but their amplitude and frequency were unaffected. At Purkinje cell synapses, although zolpidem slowed the decay of IPSCs at both immature and adult synapses, zolpidem only enhanced the amplitude of IPSCs at adult synapses. Thus during development, the level of receptor occupation remains constant at Golgi cell to granule cell synapses but falls at Purkinje cell synapses.

This report summarizes recent literature relevant to the effects of terrorism on children's mental health. The paper addresses three aspects of this topic. In the first section of the paper, data are reviewed concerning the relationships among stress, trauma, and developmental psychopathology. A particular emphasis is placed on associations with indirect forms of trauma, given that terrorism involves high levels of indirect trauma. Second, the paper delineates a set of key principles to be considered when considering ways in which the effects of terrorism on children's mental health can be minimized. Third, data are reviewed from studies in developmental psychobiology. These data are designed to illustrate the mechanisms through which children exhibit unique effects in the wake of traumatic circumstances.
Many important gains have been made in understanding PTSD and other responses to trauma as a result of neuroscience-based observations. Yet there are many gaps in our knowledge that currently impede our ability to predict those who will develop pathologic responses. Such knowledge is essential for developing appropriate strategies for mounting a mental health response in the aftermath of terrorism and for facilitating the recovery of individuals and society. This paper reviews clinical and biological studies that have led to an identification of pathologic responses following psychological trauma, including terrorism, and highlights areas of future-research. It is important to not only determine risk factors for the development of short- and long-term mental health responses to terrorism, but also apply these risk factors to the prediction of such responses on an individual level. It is also critical to consider the full spectrum of responses to terrorism, as well as the interplay between biological and psychological variables that contribute to these responses. Finally, it is essential to remove the barriers to collecting data in the aftermath of trauma by creating a culture of education in which the academic community can communicate to the public what is and is not known so that survivors of trauma and terrorism will understand the value of their participation in research to the generation of useful knowledge, and by maintaining the acquisition of knowledge as a priority for the government and those involved in the immediate delivery of services in the aftermath of large-scale disaster or trauma.
Chronic administration of phencyclidine (PCP) has been advanced as a valid animal model of the social deficit symptoms of schizophrenia. In these studies, the cumulative time that male rats treated once a day for 14 days with PCP actively engaged in social behavior was decreased approximately 75% relative to saline-treated control animals. In addition, these socially impaired rats had an increase in the relative amount of noncontact interactions compared with saline-injected peers. Social behaviors were preferentially affected by PCP treatment because in two anxiety-related behavioral assays, the open field and light/dark emergence tests, there was a failure to differentiate between the PCP-treated rats and saline-injected control rats. Considering the general importance of the neuropeptides oxytocin and vasopressin in male social behaviors, studies of molecular markers related to these neuropeptides were performed. Hypothalamic oxytocin mRNA expression was significantly decreased while oxytocin receptor binding was increased in the central nucleus of the amygdala following chronic PCP treatment. Given the significance of central nucleus of the amygdala in social behavior, oxytocin was infused into the central nucleus of experimental and control male rats, and their postinfusion social interaction and open field behaviors were analyzed. A bilateral infusion of 1 mug of oxytocin into the central amygdala selectively restored the normal quantity and quality of social behavior in chronic PCP-treated male rats without altering open field behaviors. These findings suggest that deficits in the central oxytocinergic system may underlie the social impairment exhibited in this animal model of schizophrenia.
This study investigated long-term behavioral, neurochemical, and neuropharmacological effects of ethanol-(+/-)-3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA, ecstasy) combinations. Over 4 consecutive days, male Long-Evans rats received 1.5 g/kg ethanol and/or 10 mg/kg MDMA, or saline. Rectal temperatures were taken in some rats. Starting 4 days after the last injection, we tested working memory, sensory-motor coordination, and anxiety. Subsequently, we measured cortical, striatal, septal, and hippocampal monoamines (last MDMA injection-euthanasia delay: 20 days), or electrically evoked release of serotonin (5-HT) in cortical and hippocampal slices, and its modulation in the presence of CP 93,129 (3-(1,2,5,6-tetrahydropyrid-4-yl)pyrrollo[3,2-b]pyrid-5-one) or methiotepin (last MDMA injection-euthanasia delays: 3-6 weeks). Ethanol attenuated the MDMA-induced hyperthermia, but only on the first day. In the long-term, MDMA reduced 5-HT and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) content in most brain regions. The behavioral and neurochemical effects of the ethanol-MDMA combination were comparable to those of MDMA alone; sensory-motor coordination was altered after ethanol and/or MDMA. In hippocampal slices from rats given ethanol and MDMA, the CP 93,129-induced inhibition and methiotepin-induced facilitation of 5-HT release were stronger and weaker, respectively, than in the other groups. This is the first study addressing long-term effects of repeated MDMA and EtOH combined treatments in experimental animals. Whereas the drug combination produced the same behavioral and neurochemical effects as MDMA alone, our neuropharmacological results suggest that MDMA-EtOH interactions may have specific long-term consequences on presynaptic modulation of hippocampal 5-HT release, but not necessarily related to MDMA-induced depletion of 5-HT. Thus, it is likely that the psycho(patho)logical problems reported by ecstasy users drinking alcohol are not solely due to the consumption of MDMA.
Drug development for CNS disorders faces the same formidable hurdles as other therapeutic areas: escalating development costs; novel drug targets with unproven therapeutic potential; and health care systems and regulatory agencies demanding more compelling demonstrations of the value of new drug products. Extensive clinical testing remains the core of registration of new compounds; however, traditional clinical trial methods are falling short in overcoming these development hurdles. The most common CNS disorders targeted for drug treatment are chronic, slowly vitiating processes manifested by highly subjective and context dependent signs and symptoms. With the exception of a few rare familial degenerative disorders, they have ill-defined or undefined pathophysiology. Samples selected for treatment trials using clinical criteria are inevitably heterogeneous, and dependence on traditional endpoints results in early proof-of-concept trials being long and large, with very poor signal to noise. It is no wonder that pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are looking to biomarkers as an integral part of decision-making process supported by new technologies such as genetics, genomics, proteomics, and imaging as a mean of rationalizing CNS drug development. The present review represent an effort to illustrate the integration of such technologies in drug development supporting the path of individualized medicine.
Alzheimer's disease is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder and the leading cause of dementia in the Western world. Postmortem, it is characterized neuropathologically by the presence of amyloid plaques, neurofibrillary tangles, and a profound gray matter loss. Neurofibrillary tangles are composed of an abnormally hyperphosphorylated intracellular protein called tau, tightly wound into paired helical filaments and thought to impact microtubule assembly and protein trafficking, resulting in the eventual demise of neuronal viability. The extracellular amyloid plaque deposits are composed of a proteinacious core of insoluble aggregated amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptide and have led to the foundation of the amyloid hypothesis. This hypothesis postulates that Abeta is one of the principal causative factors of neuronal death in the brains of Alzheimer's patients. With multiple drugs now moving through clinical development for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease, we will review current and future treatment strategies aimed at improving both the cognitive deficits associated with the disease, as well as more novel approaches that may potentially slow or halt the deadly neurodegenerative progression of the disease.
Depression is a highly debilitating disorder that has been estimated to affect up to 21% of the world population. Despite the advances in the treatment of depression with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), there continue to be many unmet clinical needs with respect to both efficacy and side effects. These needs range from efficacy in treatment resistant patients, to improved onset, to reductions in side effects such as emesis or sexual dysfunction. To address these needs, there are numerous combination therapies and novel targets that have been identified that may demonstrate improvements in one or more areas. There is tremendous diversity in the types of targets and approaches being taken. At one end of a spectrum is combination therapies that maintain the benefits associated with SSRIs but attempt to either improve efficacy or reduce side effects by adding additional mechanisms (5-HT1A, 5-HT1B, 5-HT1D, 5-HT2C, alpha-2A). At the other end of the spectrum are more novel targets, such as neurotrophins (BDNF, IGF), based on recent findings that antidepressants induce neurogenesis. In between, there are many approaches that range from directly targeting serotonin receptors (5-HT2C, 5-HT6) to targeting the multiplicity of potential mechanisms associated with excitatory (glutamate, NMDA, mGluR2, mGluR5) or inhibitory amino acid systems (GABA) or peptidergic systems (neurokinin 1, corticotropin-releasing factor 1, melanin-concentrating hormone 1, V1b). The present review addresses the most exciting approaches and reviews the localization, neurochemical and behavioral data that provide the supporting rationale for each of these targets or target combinations.
Although the second-generation or atypical antipsychotic drugs have been breakthrough medicines for the treatment of schizophrenia and other psychotic conditions, cognitive dysfunction and to some extent negative symptoms of the disease continue to be the main cause of poor vocational status of the patients. Thus, the majority of investigational drug development efforts today target these unmet medical needs. This review postulates that the field of schizophrenia research has advanced sufficiently to develop biochemical hypotheses of the etiopathology of the disease and target the same for revolutionary disease modifying therapy. This postulate is based on recent studies that have begun to provide a testable etiopathology model that integrates interactions between genetic vulnerability factors, neurodevelopmental anomalies, and neurotransmitter systems. This review begins with a brief overview of the nosology and etiopathology of schizophrenia and related psychotic disorders to establish a context for subsequent detailed discussions on drug discovery and development for psychotic disorders. Particular emphasis is placed on recent advances in genetic association studies of schizophrenia and how this can be integrated with evidence supporting neurodevelopmental abnormalities associated with the disease to generate a testable model of the disease etiopathology. An in-depth review of the plethora of new targets and approaches targeting the unmet medical need in the treatment of schizophrenia exemplify the challenges and opportunities in this area. We end the review by offering an approach based on emerging genetic, clinical, and neurobiological studies to discover and validate novel drug targets that could be classified as disease modifying approaches.

Anorexia nervosa (AN) is a well-recognized heterogeneous psychiatric disorder, associated with high morbidity and mortality with several medical complications. Besides a brief review, this paper also reports on a single female patient with AN. Eating disorders are reported to be slightly more common among western cultures, but developing countries are not immune to eating disorders. This patient showed both the psychopathology of abnormal eating behavior and serious physical complications and despite all possible treatment interventions, she ultimately died. We discuss different aspects of AN including the importance of constant social support from key relatives.
Miliary tuberculosis is caused by the hematogenous spread of Mycobacterium tuberculosis and consists of 1.5% of all tuberculosis cases. It is seen mostly in infants because of the immature immune system, and central nervous system (CNS) involvement is not rare. Tuberculomas are rarely seen in the localized form of CNS tuberculosis, and only 4% are localized in the brain stem. We report a 4.5-month-old infant who deteriorated during follow-up with the diagnosis of cytomegalovirus pneumonia, and afterwards received the diagnosis of miliary tuberculosis. Although the baby had no neurologic abnormality and cerebrospinal fluid findings were normal, cranial MRI revealed contrast enhanced nodular lesions in pons, cerebellum, and right parietal region. The case is presented to intensify the importance of CNS investigation even if the patient with miliary tuberculosis has no neurologic finding.
We report a patient with a schwannoma of the eighth cranial (vestibulocochlear) nerve who presented with isolated episodes of paroxysmal vertigo and positive Dix-Hallpike maneuver, and without the common features of hearing loss, disequilibrium and tinnitus. There are no previous reports of paroxysmal episodes of vertigo as the sole manifestation of schwannoma of the vestibulocochlear nerve. Hence, recurrent paroxysmal vertigo should therefore prompt the physician to rule out schwannoma of the vestibulocochlear nerve as a potential cause even in the presence of normal hearing tests.
A 32-year-old man presented with left hemifacial spasm. Neurophysiological findings revealed an absent ipsilateral R1 on blink reflex. An MRI showed a dolichoectatic left vertebral artery impinging on the root exit zone of the left facial nerve. Botulinum toxin infections relieved the manifestations of hemifacial spasm. This case demonstrates that MRI/MRA is an essential part of the work-up for hemifacial spasm, and shows that in accordance with the literature, vertebral dolichoectasia is an uncommon cause of hemifacial spasm.
We report a 60-year-old Saudi patient with the clinical diagnosis of Alzheimer`s disease (AD) and a novel mutation in the presenilin gene. We investigated mutations in the presenilin-1 gene in Saudi patients with AD using polymerase chain reaction and direct DNA sequencing methods. We extracted genomic DNA from the whole blood of both patients and normal control individuals. We sequenced and compared amplicons with the sequences of the respective exons of normal individuals as well as data available in GenBank. We detected a homozygous mutation (g-c) in exon 12, resulting in the missense mutation (Arg377Thr), in the DNA of a 60-year-old patient. We located this mutation in the cytoplasmic loop near the transmembrane domain 7.
Enterococci are responsible for an increasing number of human infections. They are normally part of the flora of the human gastrointestinal tract, buccal cavity, perineal skin, vagina, urethra and gallbladder, but may occur as pathogens in several sites causing urinary tract infections, intra-abdominal infections, fatal bacteremia, meningitis and endocarditis. Enterococcus avium is a rare cause of infection in humans. Here, we report a 19-year-old Saudi girl diagnosed as a case of astrocytoma grade II arising from the right thalamus. She underwent treatment with radiotherapy followed by 5 chemotherapy sessions. She subsequently developed a cerebral abscess, and we performed mini craniotomy of the left parietal region with drainage of the brain abscess. The pus obtained from the abscess grew Enterococcus avium. We successfully treated her with antibiotics and discharged her home. The rarity of the organism causing cerebral abscess has motivated the documentation of this case and the pathogenesis of Enterococcus avium.






Seizure disorders are very common and represent the most common cause of referrals to pediatric neurology. Epilepsy, defined as recurrent unprovoked seizures, is also common with a frequency of 4-8 cases per 1000 children. In Saudi Arabia, inherited neurological disorders, including epilepsy and genetic epilepsy syndromes, are more common because of the high rate of consanguinity. This article attempts to provide an updated overview of pediatric epilepsy and review the most recent diagnostic and therapeutic guidelines. Seizures in children have wide variations in clinical expression with age specific presentation. Although epilepsy is a clinical diagnosis, EEG often provides supportive evidence and helps in seizure classification. Epilepsy syndromes are more common in younger children, and their proper diagnosis provides valuable genetic, therapeutic, and prognostic information. Magnetic resonance imaging is superior in identifying congenital or developmental abnormalities and should be performed in preference to CT. Monotherapy is the best management approach for better compliance and to prevent interactions or side effects. To conclude, epilepsy remains a clinical diagnosis and therefore, careful and detailed history remains the cornerstone of an accurate clinical diagnosis.
There is growing evidence for the role of voltage-gated L-type Ca2+ channels in mediating aspects of the addictive properties of psychostimulants. L-type Ca2+ channels activate Ca2+ second-messenger pathways that regulate protein phosphorylation and thereby activation of target gene expression. Here the authors will review recent progress in our understanding of L-type Ca2+ channel-activated signal transduction pathways that contribute to molecular neuroadaptations evident following acute and chronic exposures to psychostimulants.
Vision is an active process. We do not see the world directly; rather, we construct a representation of it from sensory inputs in combination with internal, nonvisual signals. In the case of spatial perception, our representation of the visual scene must take into account our own movements. This allows us to perceive the world as stationary despite the constant eye movements that produce new images on the retina. How is this perceptual stability achieved? Our central hypothesis is that a corollary discharge of the eye movement command updates, or remaps, an internal representation when the eyes move. In support of this hypothesis, the authors review evidence that parietal cortex and extrastriate visual areas in both monkeys and humans participate in spatial updating. These findings shed new light on the neural circuitry involved in producing a stable and coherent perception of visual space.
Motor skill acquisition occurs through modification and organization of muscle synergies into effective movement sequences. The learning process is reflected neurophysiologically as a reorganization of movement representations within the primary motor cortex, suggesting that the motor map is a motor engram. However, the specific neural mechanisms underlying map plasticity are unknown. Here the authors review evidence that 1) motor map topography reflects the capacity for skilled movement, 2) motor skill learning induces reorganization of motor maps in a manner that reflects the kinematics of acquired skilled movement, 3) map plasticity is supported by a reorganization of cortical microcircuitry involving changes in synaptic efficacy, and 4) motor map integrity and topography are influenced by various neurochemical signals that coordinate changes in cortical circuitry to encode motor experience. Finally, the role of motor map plasticity in recovery of motor function after brain damage is discussed.
The prefrontal cortex plays a principal role in higher cognition and particularly in the fast online manipulation of appropriate information to guide forthcoming behavior. Dysfunction of this process represents a main feature in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. Both dopamine D1 and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in the prefrontal cortex play a critical role in synaptic plasticity, memory mechanisms, and cognition. Recent data have shown that D1 and NMDA receptors interact bidirectionally and may greatly influence the output of the prefrontal cortex. Hypofunction of these receptor systems in the prefrontal cortex is found in schizophrenia. This review attempts to summarize some of the latest findings on the cellular mechanisms that underlie D1-NMDA receptor interactions. These findings have provided potential therapeutic strategies that aim to functionally up-regulate D1 and/or NMDA receptor safely via selective activation of D1 receptors or coagonist activation of NMDA receptors through blockade of the glycine transporter-1.
Mutations in presenilins are the major cause of familial Alzheimer disease. The involvement of presenilins in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer disease, therefore, has been the subject of intense investigation during the past decade. Genetic analysis of phenotypes associated with presenilin mutations in invertebrate and vertebrate systems has greatly advanced our understanding of the in vivo functions of presenilins. In this review, the authors will summarize the current understanding of presenilin function, with an emphasis on the mammalian cerebral cortex. During development, presenilins play crucial roles in the maintenance of neural progenitor cell proliferation, the temporal control of neuronal differentiation, the survival of Cajal-Retzius neurons, and proper neuronal migration in the developing cerebral cortex. Analysis of presenilin function in the adult cerebral cortex has revealed essential roles for presenilins in synaptic plasticity, long-term memory, and neuronal survival. The authors will also discuss the molecular mechanisms through which presenilins may mediate these functions, including the Notch, CREB, and NMDA receptor-mediated signaling pathways. These diverse functions of presenilins in cortical development and function and neuronal survival have important implications for the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative dementia.
The prominent New York City neurologist Foster Kennedy (1884-1952) trained at London's Queen Square from 1906 to 1910. He was exposed to a number of eminent neurologists including, Sir Victor Horsley and other surgeons. A previously published but little known group of Kennedy's personal letters written during his neurological training is reviewed in light of their historic neurosurgical context. These often entertaining although at times unflattering letters capture the elation and frustration of neurosurgical experience during that important developmental period. Descriptions of the personalities involved give rare insight to this era. The Foster Kennedy syndrome--homolateral optic atrophy and contralateral papilledema with an inferior frontal tumor--was characterized under the stimulating support of Gowers and Horsley.



Patients with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection develop a broad spectrum of motor impairments and cognitive deficits, which follow or parallel cellular loss and atrophy in their brains. The viral envelope glycoprotein 120 (gp120) has been suggested to be a causal agent of neuronal loss. Therefore, reducing gp120 neurotoxicity may prevent neuronal degeneration seen in these patients. Here, we describe in vitro and in vivo experimental evidence that gp120 toxicity can be reduced by brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), a naturally occurring peptide that has been shown to block neurotoxin and trauma-induced neuronal injury. Moreover, we review the survival promoting properties of BDNF and the issues concerning its delivery into the brain, in an attempt to explain the rationale for exploring BDNF as a prototype trophic factor for a therapy to reduce neuronal cell death in HIV-1 infected patients.
Severe and debilitating neurological problems that include behavioral abnormalities, motor dysfunction and frank dementia can occur after infection with the human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1). Infected peripheral immune-competent cells, in particular macrophages, infiltrate the central nervous system (CNS) and provoke a neuropathological response involving all cell types in the brain. HIV-1 infection results in activation of chemokine receptors, inflammatory mediators, extracellular matrix-degrading enzymes and glutamate receptor-mediated excitotoxicity, all of which can trigger numerous downstream signaling pathways that result in disruption of neuronal and glial function. Despite many major improvements in the control of viral infection in the periphery, a truly effective therapy for HIV-1 associated dementia is currently not available. This review will discuss experimental and potentially future therapeutic strategies based on recently uncovered pathologic mechanisms contributing to neuronal damage induced by HIV-1.
During the clinical course of acquired immune deficiency syndrome, infection of the CNS by human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) may ultimately result in the impairment of cognitive, behavioral and motor functions. Viral neuropathogenesis involves inflammatory molecules and neurotoxins produced from infected and immune-activated lymphocytes, microglial cells and astrocytes. Here, we discuss the current understanding of HIV-1 infection of the CNS and various cell culture systems from the developing human brain in order to study the neurobiology of HIV-1 infection, the mechanisms contributing to HIV-1 infection, and disease progression.
Brain mononuclear phagocytes (MP, bone marrow monocyte-derived macrophages, perivascular macrophages, and microglia) function to protect the nervous system by acting as debris scavengers, killers of microbial pathogens, and regulators of immune responses. MP are activated by a variety of environmental cues and such inflammatory responses elicit cell injury and death in the nervous system. MP immunoregulatory responses include secretion of neurotoxic factors, mobilization of adaptive immunity, and cell chemotaxis. This incites tissue remodelling and blood-brain barrier dysfunction. As disease progresses, MP secretions engage neighboring cells in a vicious cycle of autocrine and paracrine amplification of inflammation leading to tissue injury and ultimately destruction. Such pathogenic processes tilt the balance between the relative production of neurotrophic and neurotoxic factors and to disease progression. The ultimate effects that brain MP play in disease revolves &quot;principally&quot; around their roles in neurodegeneration. Importantly, common functions of brain MP in neuroimmunity link highly divergent diseases (for example, human immunodeficiency virus type-one associated dementia, Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease). Research into this process from our own laboratories and those of others seek to harness MP inflammatory processes with the intent of developing therapeutic interventions that block neurodegenerative processes and improve the quality of life in affected people.
The AIDS dementia complex (ADC, also referred to as HIV-associated cognitive impairment) is a common disorder among HIV-infected patients associated with both inflammatory and neurodegenerative processes. This review describes recent advances in the clinical and basic neurosciences of HIV infection and discusses the multivariable nature of what has become a chronic disorder in the context of highly active antiretroviral therapies (HAART). Since its initial description twenty years ago, advances in cell and molecular biology along with those in neuroimaging have furthered our understanding of the underlying pathogenic mechanisms. The clinical and neuropsychological profile of ADC is generally consistent with a &quot;frontal-subcortical&quot; pattern of injury. Neuropathogenesis is largely driven by indirect mechanisms mediated by infected, or more commonly, immune activated macrophages, which secrete viral and host-derived factors. Magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) provides a robust in vivo method to measure the inflammatory and neurotoxic events triggered by these factors and their associated signals. Although the use of combined or highly active antiretroviral therapies (HAART) has significantly improved survival rates, cerebral injury and cognitive impairment remain common events. Factors such as aging and chronic infection will likely impact the course of this disease, its pathogenesis, and treatment. The combined observations presented in this review suggest a number of critical areas for future inquiry.
Botulinum toxins are metalloproteases that act inside nerve terminals and block neurotransmitter release via their activity directed specifically on SNARE proteins. This review summarizes data on botulinum toxin modes of binding, sites of action, and biochemical activities. Their use in cell biology and neuroscience is considered, as well as their therapeutic utilization in human diseases characterized by hyperfunction of cholinergic terminals.




The effect of intermittent glucose administration on the circadian rhythm of body temperature was studied in rats to provide evidence of sugar addiction, withdrawal and relapse. Metabolic and behavioral phenomena were also observed. Biotelemetry transmitters recorded body temperature for the duration of the 4-week experiment. Rats were divided into an experimental and a control group, which were maintained on the same habituation conditions for the duration of the experiment, with the exception of weeks 2 and 4, when the experimental group was presented with a 25% glucose solution. Experimental animals displayed a precipitous drop in body temperature and behavioral changes associated with withdrawal during week 3, when sugar was removed. There was an increase in kilocalories (kcal) consumed during weeks 2 and 4 by experimental animals and, by the end of the experiment, these animals showed a greater percent increase in body weight. Elevated blood glucose levels were found in experimental animals. The study demonstrates that the effects of sugar addiction, withdrawal and relapse are similar to those of drugs of abuse. Implications of the rewarding and addicting effects of sugar are related to weight gain, obesity and Type II diabetes. Furthermore, pitfalls related to dieting are elucidated.


The distribution and modulation of the P2X(3) receptor was studied in trigeminal ganglion neurons to provide insight into the role of ATP in craniofacial sensory mechanisms. Binding to the d-galactose specific lectin IB4 was found in 73% of P2X(3)-positive neurons while only 16% of IB4 neurons expressed P2X(3). Neurons expressing P2X(3) alone were significantly larger than IB4-or IB4/P2X(3)-positive neurons. Investigation of target-specificity revealed that 22% of trigeminal ganglion muscle afferent neurons were positive for P2X(3) versus 16% of cutaneous afferent neurons. Muscle P2X(3) afferents were significantly smaller than the overall muscle afferent population while P2X(3) cutaneous afferent neurons were not. Presumptive heteromeric (P2X(2/3)) muscle afferent neurons were also identified and comprised 77% of the P2X(3) muscle afferent population. Muscle afferent neurons co-expressed P2X(3) with either calcitonin gene-related peptide (15%) or substance P (4%). The number of P2X(3)-positive muscle afferent neurons significantly increased one and four days following complete Freund's adjuvant-induced masseter muscle inflammation, but significantly decreased after 12 days. These results indicate that within trigeminal ganglia: (1) the P2X(3) receptor is expressed in both small and medium-sized neurons; (2) the P2X(3) receptor is not exclusively expressed in IB4 neurons; (3) P2X(3) is co-expressed with neuropeptides; (4) differences in the proportion of cutaneous versus muscle P2X(3) afferents are not apparent. Trigeminal P2X(3) neurons therefore differ markedly from dorsal root ganglion P2X(3) afferents. This study also shows that deep tissue inflammation modulates expression of the P2X(3) receptor and thus may warrant exploration as a target for therapeutic intervention.
To explore associations between psychiatric symptoms and cerebral magnetic resonance imaging abnormalities in low-birth-weight adolescents, 55 very low-birth-weight (&lt;or=1500 gm), 54 term small for gestational age (birth weight &lt;10th centile) and 66 term control adolescents (birth weight &gt;or=10th centile) were assessed at 14-15 years of age. Outcome measures were Schedule for Affective Disorders and Schizophrenia for School-Age Children, Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder Rating Scale IV, Autism Spectrum Screening Questionnaire, and qualitatively assessed cerebral magnetic resonance images. The very low-birth-weight group manifested increased prevalence of psychiatric symptoms and disorders compared with controls (P &lt; 0.001), especially symptoms of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder, and high frequency of ventricular dilatation, white matter reduction, thinning of corpus callosum, and gliosis (P &lt; 0.01 vs controls). The Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder Rating Scale score was significantly associated with white matter reduction and thinning of corpus callosum in this group. The term small for gestational age group had increased prevalence of psychiatric symptoms compared with control subjects, but not more frequent abnormalities on cerebral magnetic resonance imaging. In conclusion, attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder symptoms were significantly associated with white matter reduction and thinning of corpus callosum in very low-birth-weight adolescents. No associations were found for other psychiatric symptoms and brain abnormalities in any of the groups.
We have cloned melanocortin receptors (MCRs) from several species of fish. The MC4R and MC5R subtypes arose early in vertebrate evolution and their primary structure is remarkably conserved. Expression and pharmacological characterization of the MCRs in fish has revealed that they bind and respond to melanocortin peptides with high potency. Detailed characterization of the binding properties of the different subtypes suggests that MCRs in early vertebrates had preference for adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) peptides, while the high sensitivity for the shorter proopiomelanocortin (POMC) products, such as the alpha-, beta-, and gamma-melanocyte-stimulating hormone (MSH), has appeared later, perhaps as the MCR subtypes gained more specialized functions. The MCR repertoire shows in general high similarities in their primary structures, while they are however not similar in terms of functional roles. The MCRs serve therefore as an interesting model family to understand the molecular mechanisms of how functions of the genes can diverge during evolution. In this review, we provide an overview of our recent studies on the cloning, expression, pharmacology, 3D modeling, and genomic studies of the MCRs in non-mammalian species.
Activity-based anorexia (ABA) is considered an animal model of anorexia nervosa (AN). In ABA, scheduled feeding in combination with voluntary access to running wheels, results in hyperactivity, hypophagia, body weight loss and activation of the HPA axis. Since stimulation of the melanocortin (MC) system has similar effects, this system is a candidate system involved in ABA. Here it is shown that chronic alpha-MSH treatment enhances ABA by increasing running wheel activity (RWA), decreasing food intake and increasing HPA axis activation.
The mammalian vomeronasal organ (VNO), a part of the accessory olfactory system, plays an essential role in the sensing of pheromonal signals. The VNO has emerged as an excellent model to investigate the functional role of transient receptor potential (TRP) channels in intact neurons and intact physiological systems. TRPC2, a member of the (canonical) TRPC subfamily, is highly localized to the dendritic tip of vomeronasal sensory neurons. Phenotypic analysis of mice exhibiting a targeted deletion in the TRPC2 gene has established that TRPC2 occupies a fundamental role in the transduction machinery underlying the detection of pheromone signals by the VNO. TRPC2-deficient mice exhibit striking behavioral defects in the regulation of sexual and social behaviors. A previously unknown Ca(2+)-permeable, diacylglycerol (DAG)-activated cation channel found at the dendritic tip of vomeronasal neurons is severely defective in TRPC2 mutants, providing the first clear example for the existence of native DAG-gated cation channels in the mammalian nervous system. The experimental strategy employed in the mouse VNO now serves as a powerful model for examining the native functions of other TRP genes.
Temperature-sensitive transient receptor potential vanilloid (TRPV) ion channels are critical contributors to normal pain and temperature sensation and therefore represent attractive targets for pain therapy. When these channels were first discovered, most attention was focused on their potential contributions to direct thermal activation of peripheral sensory neurons. However, recent anatomical, physiological, and behavioral studies have provided evidence that TRPV channels expressed in skin epithelial cells may also contribute to thermosensation in vitro and in vivo. Here, we review these studies and speculate on possible communication mechanisms from cutaneous epithelial cells to sensory neurons.
The transient receptor potential vanilloid 4 (TRPV4) ion channel was named initially vanilloid-receptor-related osmotically activated channel (VR-OAC). Preliminary answers to the question, &quot;What is the function of the trpv4 gene in live animals ?&quot; are highlighted briefly in this review. In trpv4 null mice, TRPV4 is necessary for the maintenance of osmotic equilibrium, and in Caenorhabditis elegans transgenic for mammalian TRPV4, TRPV4 directs the osmotic avoidance response in the context of the ASH &quot;nociceptive&quot; neuron. The molecular mechanisms of gating of TRPV4 in vivo need to be determined; in particular, whether TRPV4 in live animals is gated via phosphorylation of defined amino-acid residues or more directly through the osmotic stimulus itself.
Transient receptor potential channels (TRP) have emerged as cellular sensors of various internal and external cues. Generally, the activation of TRP canonical (TRPC) channels is triggered by the stimulation of phospholipase C; however, multiple factors are involved in the regulation of these channels. Among them, Ca(2+)-mediated feedback channel modulations are often mediated by calmodulin (CaM) and other Ca(2+)-binding proteins. In vitro binding studies have revealed multiple CaM-binding sites on TRPC proteins. Among them, a common CaM/inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor-binding site is found at the carboxyl terminus of every TRPC isoform. Additional non-conserved CaM-binding sites are present at the amino and carboxyl termini of several TRPC proteins. Likewise, multiple CaM-binding sites were found in other TRP proteins. These, together with the presence in close vicinity of the interaction sites for the related neuronal Ca(2+)-binding proteins, such as CaBP1, suggest a multitude of diverse intracellular Ca(2+)-dependent regulations of TRP channels. Functional studies have begun to reveal the unique roles of CaM and CaBP1 binding to several TRP channels. This review will focus on the CaM- and CaBP1-mediated regulations of TRPC channels. Related studies on TRPM and TRPV channels will also be highlighted.
Modern neuroscience is placing increased emphasis on understanding how the activity of ion channels and intracellular molecules in the central nervous system affect behavior. An improved understanding of the brain and the biological bases of conditions such as addictive and depressive disorders is important because it should ultimately enable the design of innovative treatments for these conditions. The development of rational therapies that are based on knowledge of what is different about the addicted or depressed brain would be an important advance. Here, we describe how multidisciplinary studies that combine numerous approaches (behavioral analysis, physiology, molecular biology, and genetic engineering) have begun to provide important advances that have helped to establish causal relationships between the pathophysiology of these conditions and behavior. This type of work has identified classes of molecules on the outside of cells (receptors and ion channels) that receive signals from other cells and initiate cellular events that have short-term effects on the neurons. It has also identified other classes of molecules that are inside of cells (signal transduction molecules) that can have immediate effects on cell function (e.g., ion channel phosphorylation), as well longer term effects (alterations in protein expression) that affect the ways in which neurons function within circuits. Innovative treatments that block, negate, or even reverse the extracellular or intracellular neuroadaptations resulting from exposure to drugs of abuse or stress might be more effective than current therapies because they directly target the molecular processes that cause maladaptive behaviors.
The National Institute on Drug Abuse has funded a medications program that has concentrated on the development of medications for opiate and cocaine dependence. Levomethadyl acetate (LAAM) and buprenorphine and buprenorphine/naloxone sublingual tablets were developed in conjunction with pharmaceutical partners and approved by the Food and Drug Administration. The remaining challenges for medications development for opiate dependence involves Phase IV studies in special populations, for example, pregnant opiate-dependent patients, and to translate neuroscience-based findings into treatments. Several marketed medications have shown initial efficacy to reduce cocaine use in well-controlled clinical trials. Disulfiram has been shown to reduce cocaine use in several clinical trials, while baclofen, modafinil, naltrexone, ondansetron, tiagabine, and topiramate have shown preliminary efficacy in initial clinical studies. Confirmatory studies of many of these medications is underway. More recently, the NIDA medications program has evaluated medications for their ability to reduce methamphetamine use. To date, no medications tested have shown efficacy to reduce methamphetamine use. Both marketed medications and investigational agents will be tested. Finally, NIDA has begun to test medications for efficacy to reduce cannabis use. Initial studies are underway. Both agonist and antagonist approaches will be evaluated. Additionally, medications will be tested in cannabis-dependent patients for the management of insomnia, withdrawal, and concurrent depression.

Comparative proteomic methods are rapidly being applied to many different biological systems including complex tissues. One pitfall of these methods is that in some cases, such as oncology and neuroscience, tissue complexity requires isolation of specific cell types and sample is limited. Laser microdissection (LMD) is commonly used for obtaining such samples for proteomic studies. We have combined LMD with sensitive thiol-reactive saturation dye labelling of protein samples and 2-D DIGE to identify protein changes in a test system, the isolated CA1 pyramidal neurone layer of a transgenic (Tg) rat carrying a human amyloid precursor protein transgene. Saturation dye labelling proved to be extremely sensitive with a spot map of over 5,000 proteins being readily produced from 5 mug total protein, with over 100 proteins being significantly altered at p &lt; 0.0005. Of the proteins identified, all showed coherent changes associated with transgene expression. It was, however, difficult to identify significantly different proteins using PMF and MALDI-TOF on gels containing less than 500 mug total protein. The use of saturation dye labelling of limiting samples will therefore require the use of highly sensitive MS techniques to identify the significantly altered proteins isolated using methods such as LMD.
The purpose of the present study was to investigate the changes in the cognitive dysfunctions of patients with obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) over a 1-year period of pharmacological treatment. Twenty-one OCD patients and 20 normal subjects underwent neuropsychological tests and clinical evaluations on three separate occasions (baseline, 4 months, and 1 year after the start of medications). OCD patients continued to show significant impairments in the following cognitive measures compared with the normal controls: accuracy of immediate and delayed recall on the Rey-Osterrieth complex figure tests, the numbers of responses on the category fluency test, the response time on the trail making test--part A, and the number of perseverative response and perseverative errors on the Wisconsin card sorting test. The findings in this study suggested that impaired performance on cognitive domains, such as visuospatial memory and verbal fluency may underline the pathology of OCD.

Increased demands on cognitive control trigger changes in processing mode. One such modulation involves a shift from parallel to serial processing. This study assessed the role of control demand in determining whether dual-task processing is performed serially or in parallel. We used two critical indices, based on the response-selection bottleneck model, to show that response selection was serial when a task switch was involved, but partly parallel when the simultaneous performance of the tasks did not involve task switching.
This study examined the influence of photoperiod on affective behavior (anxiety) of adult male and female meadow voles (Microtus pennsylvanicus), maintained in either a long or short day photoperiod, when tested in an automated (VersaMax) light-dark test. The light-dark test is based on an innate aversion of rodents to novel, brightly illuminated spaces and has been used with laboratory raised species, such as mice, to assess anxiety and/or fear related behaviors. Male and female meadow voles, housed either in a long day (LD: 16 h light) or short day (SD: 8 h light) photoperiod, were tested in the light-dark apparatus for 30 min on 3 consecutive days. All animals spent significantly (p &lt; 0.001) less time in the brightly lit chamber (900 lux) than in the dark chamber. LD voles, especially females, spent significantly less time in the brightly lit area than did SD voles. Both horizontal and vertical movements occurred less frequently per unit time in the dark area relative to the light, but only in the LD voles. LD female voles were the least active group in the dark area on the first test day but the most active group in the light area, despite spending the least amount of time in this area on the second and third test days. The present results show that LD voles exhibit more anxiety related behaviors in this test situation than do SD voles. LD females avoided the brightly lit area the most, particularly when the apparatus was novel. Thus, both photoperiod and sex influence situation-based anxiety in this species. These findings suggest that meadow voles are an excellent animal model in which to examine the role of gonadal hormones, and their modulation of defence related neural systems, in the induction of anxiety.
The early stages of dieting to lose weight have been associated with neuro-psychological impairments. Previous work has not elucidated whether these impairments are a function solely of unsupported or supported dieting. Raised cortico-steroid levels have been implicated as a possible causal mechanism. Healthy, overweight, pre-menopausal women were randomised to one of three conditions in which they dieted either as part of a commercially available weight loss group, dieted without any group support or acted as non-dieting controls for 8 weeks. Testing occurred at baseline and at 1, 4 and 8 weeks post baseline. During each session, participants completed measures of simple reaction time, motor speed, vigilance, immediate verbal recall, visuo-spatial processing and (at Week 1 only) executive function. Cortisol levels were gathered at the beginning and 30 min into each test session, via saliva samples. Also, food intake was self-recorded prior to each session and fasting body weight and percentage body fat were measured at each session. Participants in the unsupported diet condition displayed poorer vigilance performance (p = 0.001) and impaired executive planning function (p = 0.013) (along with a marginally significant trend for poorer visual recall (p = 0.089)) after 1 week of dieting. No such impairments were observed in the other two groups. In addition, the unsupported dieters experienced a significant rise in salivary cortisol levels after 1 week of dieting (p &lt; 0.001). Both dieting groups lost roughly the same amount of body mass (p = 0.011) over the course of the 8 weeks of dieting, although only the unsupported dieters experienced a significant drop in percentage body fat over the course of dieting (p = 0.016). The precise causal nature of the relationship between stress, cortisol, unsupported dieting and cognitive function is, however, uncertain and should be the focus of further research.





Structural chromosomal rearrangements are commonly observed in tumor karyotypes and in radiation-induced genomic instability. Here we report the effects of TP53 deficiency on karyotypic stability before and after irradiation using related cells and clones differing in cellular TP53 status. The parental cell line, TK6, is a TP53 wild-type human B-lymphoblastoid line with a highly stable karyotype. In the two TK6 derivatives used here, TP53 has been inactivated by biochemical means (expression of HPV16 E6; TK6-5E) or genetic means (allelic inactivation; NH32). Biochemical inactivation of TP53 (TK6-5E) had little effect on the spontaneous karyotype, whereas allelic inactivation of TP53 (NH32) resulted in a modest increase in spontaneous karyotypic instability. After 2 Gy gamma irradiation, the number of unstable clones derived from TP53-deficient cells was significantly elevated compared to the TP53 wild-type counterpart. Extensively destabilized clones were common after irradiation in the set of clones derived from NH32 cells, and one was observed in the set of TK6-5E clones; however, they were never observed in TK6-derived clones. In two of the irradiated NH32 clones, whole chromosomes or chromosome bands were preferentially involved in alterations. These results suggest that genomic instability may differ both quantitatively and qualitatively as a consequence of altered TP53 expression. Some of the results showing repeated and preferential chromosome involvement in aberrations support a model in which instability may be driven by cis mechanisms.

A 47-year-old man, who suffered from acute lymphocytic leukemia at 45 years old and was treated with hematopoietic stem cell transplantation at 46 years old after the induction of complete remission by the standard chemotherapy, developed the symptoms of chronic graft-versus-host disease (cGVHD) such as dry eyes, dry mouth, skin thickening, skin scaling, skin pigmentation and impaired liver function. He was admitted to our hospital because of the acute development of diplopia and weakness of his left upper extremity accompanying with the exacerbation of other symptoms of cGVHD. Neurological examinations revealed the right abducens nerve palsy and asymmetric muscular weakness of the extremities; the proximal part of the left upper extremity and the distal part of the right upper extremity were markedly involved. Neurophysiological studies including magnetic motor root stimulation revealed demyelinating neuropathy specifically involving the motor nerves. On the basis of these findings, a diagnosis of peripheral neuropathy associated with cGVHD was made. Nighteen reports are available on peripheral neuropathy in cGVHD patients, but to date little is known about the pathophysiology of this condition. Most of those patients have been diagnosed as having symmetric demyelinating polyneuropathy, such as Guillain-Barr syndrome or chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy. In this study, contrary to previous reports, the asymmetric involvement of motor nerves is noteworthy. Accumulation and further analyses of the cases like the present case are necessary to elucidate the pathogenesis of peripheral neuropathy in cGVHD.
At the Measurement and Treatment Research to Improve Cognition in Schizophrenia (MATRICS) New Approaches Conference, a discussion group focused on directions for future research that are critical to enhancing our understanding of the distinctions among key cognitive domains that have relevance for the development of cognition-enhancing interventions. One set of recommendations emphasizes the need for examining and optimizing the psychometric properties of relevant measurement paradigms from cognitive psychology and cognitive neuroscience. This step is critical to translating many notable advances in these basic fields into measures that would be appropriate for clinical trials. A second set of recommendations focuses on key directions for the development and application of animal models of cognitive processes that would greatly aid the discovery and preclinical testing of potential cognition-enhancing agents. As part of this process, the group noted several existing animal paradigms that have particular promise as measures in the key cognitive domains in schizophrenia identified by the MATRICS Neurocognition Committee.
This article summarizes the discussion from a breakout group at the National Institute of Mental Health-Measurement and Treatment Research to Improve Cognition in Schizophrenia New Approaches Conference on social cognition in schizophrenia. During this discussion, the reasons for the recent growth of research on social cognition in schizophrenia were examined. The discussion group established consensus on several points, including the importance of viewing social cognition from interdisciplinary perspectives (including outcomes research, social psychology, cognitive psychology, cognitive neuroscience, and animal models) and the need for clearer definition of terms. There was also general agreement that social cognition is a valuable construct for understanding the nature and disability of schizophrenia. One of the objectives of this group was to generate recommendations for subsequent human and animal studies, and these research agendas are summarized in this report.
New approaches to the measurement of cognition in schizophrenia include the use of tasks from experimental cognitive psychology to examine the integrity of specific cognitive systems and the application of these tasks in noninvasive neuroimaging (e.g., functional magnetic resonance imaging [fMRI]) studies that directly measure the effects of drugs on cognition-related brain activity. These approaches offer many advantages, including the isolation of specific cognitive systems that may be conserved across species; controlling for the confounding effects of generalized performance deficits such as poor motivation, sedation, and so on; and providing a direct translational bridge from studies using animal models of cognition to patient-based research using fMRI. These developments have the potential to transform the early human phases of drug development and streamline the decision making at this critical point in the process. As was the case for the Measurement and Treatment Research to Improve Cognition in Schizophrenia initiative, optimizing the application of cognitive neuroscience to new drug development will require a major commitment by multiple investigators to task development and a thorough psychometric evaluation of both behavioral and neuroimaging measures.
The aim of this study was to examine sex differences in emotion processing in patients with schizophrenia and control subjects. To this end, 53 patients with schizophrenia (28 men and 25 women), and 42 controls (21 men and 21 women) were assessed with the use of a facial affect recognition morphing task. Accuracy and sensitivity scores were measured. Women performed better than men in labelling negative emotions. On the same task, patients performed worse than control subjects, irrespective of sex, although the largest degree of impairment was seen in male patients. In conclusion, emotion perception was disproportionally affected in men with schizophrenia relative to women. This may explain, in part, why women with schizophrenia are less impaired in social life than men suffering from this illness.
Previous studies have described abnormal expression of molecules involved in glutamatergic signaling in psychiatric illnesses, including proteins associated with receptor signaling complexes in the postsynaptic density (PSD). In particular the N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor complex has been associated with these illnesses. Several subcortical structures including the striatum are innervated by direct glutamatergic projections from the prefrontal cortex, and these connections may be affected in severe psychiatric illnesses. Abnormal expression of molecules critical for glutamatergic signaling in subcortical structures may thus be associated with the pathophysiology of severe psychiatric illnesses. In the present study postmortem tissue from patients with schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and major depression was used to examine striatal expression of transcripts encoding NMDA receptor interacting proteins of the PSD required for trafficking, membrane targeting and synaptic function of this receptor. We found decreased striatal expression of transcripts encoding PSD-95 and SAP-102 in bipolar disorder and of SAP-102 in major depression and schizophrenia, while no significant changes in NF--L and PSD-93 mRNAs were observed. Abnormal expression of SAP-102 in schizophrenia and SAP-102 and PSD-95 in mood disorders in subcortical structures receiving afferent glutamatergic innervation from frontal cortex suggests dysregulation of cortical-subcortical circuitry in these illnesses.


This review will discuss the recent studies about the role of amygdala in pain processing. Pain has a strong emotional component, and the amygdala plays a major role in emotional behaviours. An increasing number of evidences implicated the amygdala in the process of pain encoding and modulation. Amygdala may integrate the nociceptive information from the spinal cord and the trigeminal nucleus with information of other sensory modalities from thalamic and cortical areas, and generate the emotional reactions and the behavioral responses of pain. On the other hand, amygdala may also be involved in pain modulation through connections with periaquiductal gray (PAG) , rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM), and other brain stem areas.

Trophoblasts provide a model to investigate fundamental mechanisms of stem cell differentiation, but the availability of trophoblast stem cell lines is limited. Here we report the development of an RT-PCR-based lineage-specific profile as a method to identify the lineages of placental trophoblast cells routinely and specifically. This profiling method was used to analyze the mouse SM10 and rat HRP-1 cell lines, isolated from a region of the placental labyrinth, but of previously unidentified lineage. Using this profile, the expression of trophoblast stem cell markers was detected in the SM10 and HRP-1 cells. In contrast, no expression of a marker of differentiated labyrinthine trophoblast was detected. Additionally, both cell lines expressed labyrinthine trophoblast-specific genes and did not express lineage-specific markers of spongiotrophoblasts or trophoblast giant cells. Our results suggest that SM10 and HRP-1 cell lines are trophoblast stem cell-like cell lines that can be maintained in undifferentiated but committed state in cell culture. These cell lines express labyrinthine-specific genes and are committed to differentiate solely into functional labyrinthine trophoblasts. Our profiling method provides a new technique to identify stem cells and their lineage-specific differentiation. This method additionally indicates that SM10 and HRP-1 cell lines provide new systems for future studies of stem cell differentiation, allowing investigation of basic mechanisms of differentiation, which may provide insights into the biophysics of development of a specialized system. This method should also prove to be useful for identification of other stem cell lines and examination of lineage-specific commitment.
NTera2, a human embryonal carcinoma (EC) stem cell line, shares many characteristics with human embryonic stem cells (hESCs). To determine whether NTera2 can serve as a useful surrogate for hESCs, we compared global gene expression between undifferentiated NTera2, multiple undifferentiated hESC cell lines, and their differentiated derivatives, and we showed that NTera2 cells share multiple markers with hESCs. Similar to hESCs, NTera2 cells differentiated into TH-positive cells that express dopaminergic markers including AADC, DAT, Nurr1, TrkB, TrkC, and GFRA1 when co-cultured with PA6 cells. Flow cytometry analysis showed that tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) expression increased, whereas SSEA4 expression decreased as cells differentiated. Medium conditioned by PA6 cells stimulated differentiation of NTera2 cells to generate TH-positive cells that expressed dopaminergic markers. Flow cytometry selected polysialylated (PSA-NCAM) cells responded to medium conditioned by PA6 cells by differentiating into TH-positive cells and expressed dopaminergic markers. Sorted cells differentiated for 4 weeks in PA6 cell conditioned media included functional neurons that responded to neurotransmitters and exhibited electronic excitability. Therefore, NTera2 cell dopaminergic neuronal differentiation and PSA-NCAM enrichment provides a useful system for the future study of hESCs.




Glutamate-dependent synaptic plasticity is emerging as an important neural substrate of addiction. These drug-dependent neural adaptations may occur within brain systems that mediate reward, emotion, and cognitive function such as the amygdala complex. Modification of glutamate receptor targeting may be a key mechanism mediating neural plasticity; however, evidence for alteration of amygdala AMPA receptor localization in response to drug self-administration is lacking. High-resolution immunogold electron microscopic immunocytochemistry was used to compare surface and intracellular labeling of the calcium sensitive AMPA GluR1 receptor subunit in the basolateral (BLA) and central (CeA) nuclei of the amygdala in rats self-administering escalating doses of morphine or saline. Morphine self-administration was associated with regionally diverse effects on dendritic GluR1 targeting in the BLA and CeA. In the BLA of morphine self-administering animals, there was a significant increase in the proportion of immunogold particles for GluR1 on the plasma membrane of dendrites, particularly in association with extrasynaptic sites, which was most prominent in large (2-4 microm) profiles. In contrast, there were no significant differences in surface or intracellular immunogold labeling in the CeA between morphine self-administering and control animals. In both amygdala regions, GluR1 and the micro-opioid receptor, the major cellular target of morphine, were only infrequently colocalized. These results indicate that GluR1 targeting is a dynamic process that can be differentially affected in distinct amygdala regions in response to chronic self-administration of morphine. Homeostatic adaptations in the subcellular localization of calcium sensitive AMPA receptors within the BLA may be an important neural substrate for alterations in reward, autonomic function, and behavioral processes associated with opiate addiction.
Regulation of NMDAreceptor-mediated synaptic transmission onto accumbal medium spiny neurons (MSN) may constitute an important site in drug reward and reinforcement in mesolimbic structures. Previously, we reported that D(1)-like dopamine receptors activate a postsynaptic cAMP/PKA/DARPP-32 signaling cascade culminating in phosphorylation of SER897-NR1 subunits and a reduction in the sensitivity to ethanol of NMDA receptor-mediated synaptic transmission. Here, we use a detailed electrophysiological analysis of D(1)-like receptor regulation of the ethanol sensitivity of accumbal NMDA receptors (NMDARs) through recordings of quantal Sr(2+)-supported NMDA miniature synaptic currents (mEPSCs) in reduced Mg(2+) (0.6 mM) and report dual presynaptic and postsynaptic components of D(1)-like regulation of ethanol sensitivity of NMDARs. Ethanol inhibited NMDA mEPSC amplitude and frequency in a dose-dependent manner (25-75 mM), indicating inhibitory effects on presynaptic and postsynaptic components NMDA receptor-mediated synaptic transmission. The presynaptic inhibitory effect was corroborated by analysing the ratio of paired-pulse facilitation (PPF) of Ca(2+)-supported NMDA EPSCs. Activation of D(1) receptors with the agonist, SKF 38393 (25 microM), reversed ethanol suppression of NMDA mEPSC frequency and amplitude. Furthermore, the Mg(2+)-dependent decay off-rate of NMDA mEPSCs was substantially reduced by ethanol in a manner strongly reversed by the D(1) agonist. D(1) receptor-mediated attenuation of both the presynaptic and postsynaptic actions of ethanol was completely blocked by a D(1) selective antagonist (SCH 23390). These data suggest that D(1)-like receptors modulate both the presynaptic and postsynaptic effects of ethanol on NMDA receptor-mediated synaptic transmission in nucleus accumbens (NAc) and that these interactions may contribute to ethanol-induced neuroadaptation of the reward pathway.
Imitation poses a unique problem: how does the imitator know what pattern of motor activation will make their action look like that of the model? Specialist theories suggest that this correspondence problem has a unique solution; there are functional and neurological mechanisms dedicated to controlling imitation. Generalist theories propose that the problem is solved by general mechanisms of associative learning and action control. Recent research in cognitive neuroscience, stimulated by the discovery of mirror neurons, supports generalist solutions. Imitation is based on the automatic activation of motor representations by movement observation. These externally triggered motor representations are then used to reproduce the observed behaviour. This imitative capacity depends on learned perceptual-motor links. Finally, mechanisms distinguishing self from other are implicated in the inhibition of imitative behaviour.
The functions performed by different neural microcircuits depend on the anatomical and physiological properties of the various synaptic pathways connecting neurons. Neural microcircuits across various species and brain regions are similar in terms of their repertoire of neurotransmitters, their synaptic kinetics, their short-term and long-term plasticity, and the target-specificity of their synaptic connections. However, microcircuits can be fundamentally different in terms of the precise recurrent design used to achieve a specific functionality. In this review, which is part of the TINS Microcircuits Special Feature, we compare the connectivity designs in spinal, hippocampal, neocortical and cerebellar microcircuits, and discuss the different computational challenges that each microcircuit faces.
To understand the interface between global brain function and molecular neuroscience--that is, the microcircuit level--a major challenge. Such understanding is prerequisite if we are to account for neural function in cellular terms. Very few vertebrate microcircuits are yet understood because their analysis is demanding technically. In this review of the TINS Microcircuits Special Feature, we attempt to shed light on the problem by comparing the operation of four types of microcircuit, to identify common molecular and cellular components. Central pattern generator (CPG) networks underlying rhythmic movements and hippocampal microcircuits that generate gamma and theta rhythms are compared with the neocortical microcircuits used in cognitive tasks and a cerebellar network. The long-term goal is to identify the components of a molecular and synaptic tool kit for the design of different microcircuits.

Many diseases and injuries lead to loss of motor function. Can we reanimate paralyzed limbs to produce effective, graceful movements? Recent insights into the function of the motor system and greatly improved computing capabilities have made this a realistic goal, even in the absence of regeneration of motor pathways. Some approaches involve stimulating muscles, nerves or the spinal cord below the level of a lesion. Others involve recording a subject's intention from the cortex, and using this intention to control computers, robots or systems for stimulating the limbs. Here, we critically analyze the possibilities and limitations of various approaches for restoring motor function based on recent human trials and underlying neuroscience research.
Leptin insufficiency at crucial target sites in the hypothalamic circuitries that integrate energy intake and expenditure underlies abnormal rates of fat accumulation. The payload of this &quot;fat burden&quot; is metabolic syndrome, a cluster of life-threatening metabolic afflictions, and a shorter lifespan. Currently available therapies employed to combat obesity have disadvantages such as poor compliance for lifestyle modification or transient effectiveness and undesirable side-effects of pharmacological interventions. Recent studies suggest that neurotherapy comprising a single central administration of recombinant adeno-associated virus vector encoding the leptin gene severely depletes fat and ameliorates the major symptoms of metabolic syndrome for extended periods in rodents. These persistent benefits avert the deleterious impact of the &quot;fat burden&quot; and extend life expectancy. Thus, the novel approach of central gene-transfer technology has distinct advantages over current therapies and has the potential to correct or slow the progression of inherited or acquired hypothalamic diseases.
Optic flow generated by rigid surface patches can be decomposed into a small number of elementary motion types. In these experiments, we show that the human visual system can evaluate expansion, one of these motion types, metrically. Moreover, we show that the discrimination of rates of expansion are spatially local. Because the estimation of the focus of expansion is somewhat imprecise, this locality sometimes produces predictable errors in the estimation of rate of expansion. One can make predictions like this with a model adapted from one previously developed for angular-velocity discrimination.
Proline-rich tyrosine kinase 2 (Pyk2) is activated in neurones following NMDA receptor stimulation via PKC. Pyk2 is involved in hippocampal LTP and acts to potentiate NMDA receptor function. Elevations of intracellular Ca2+ and cAMP levels are key NMDA receptor-dependent triggering events leading to induction of hippocampal LTP. In this study, we compared the ability of A23187 (Ca2+ ionophore) or forskolin (adenylate cyclase activator) to modulate the phosphorylation of Pyk2 in rat hippocampal slices. Using an immunoprecipitation assay, phosphorylated Pyk2 levels were increased following treatment with A23187, levels peaking at around 10 min. Staurosporine, at concentrations inhibiting conventional and novel isoforms of PKC, and chelerythrine, at concentrations inhibiting the atypical PKC isoform PKMxi, were compared for their ability to attenuate the effect of A23187. Exposure of acute hippocampal slices to either chelerythrine or staurosporine completely blocked enhanced phosphorylation of Pyk2 by A23187, suggesting a possible involvement of PKMxi and typical PKCs in Pyk2 activation by Ca2+. In contrast, application of forskolin reduced phosphorylated Pyk2 below basal levels, suggesting that cAMP inhibits Pyk2. These results implicate Ca2+ and multiple forms of PKC in the activation of Pyk2 downstream of NMDA receptors and suggest that cAMP-dependent processes exert a suppressive action on Pyk2.
Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) are regarded as potential therapeutic targets to control various neurodegenerative diseases. Owing to the relevance of cholinergic neurotransmission in the pathogenesis of Huntington's disease (HD) this investigation was aimed to study the effect of nicotine, a nAChR agonist, on 3-nitropropionic acid (3-NP)-induced neurodegeneration in female Wistar rats. Systemic administration of 3-NP in rats serves as an important model of HD. The animals received subcutaneous injections of nicotine (0, 0.25, 0.50 and 1.00 mg/kg) daily for 7 days. 3-NP (25 mg/kg, i.p.) was administered daily 30 min after nicotine for the same duration. One additional group of rats served as control (vehicle only). On day 8, the animals were observed for neurobehavioral performance (motor activity, inclined plane test, grip strength test, paw test and beam balance). Immediately after behavioral studies, the animals were transcardially perfused with neutral buffered formalin (10%) and brains were fixed for histological studies. Lesions in the striatal dopaminergic neurons were assessed by immunohistochemical method using tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) immunostaining. Treatment of rats with nicotine significantly and dose-dependently attenuated 3-NP-induced behavioral deficits. Administration of 3-NP alone caused significant depletion of striatal dopamine (DA) and glutathione (GSH), which was significantly and dose-dependently attenuated by nicotine. Preservation of striatal dopaminergic neurons by nicotine was also confirmed by immunohistochemical studies. These results clearly showed neuroprotective effect of nicotine in experimental model of HD. The clinical relevance of these findings in HD patients remains unclear and warrants further studies.
Neural progenitors in the subgranular zone of the hippocampal formation form a continuously proliferating cell population, generating new granule neurons throughout adult life. Between 10 days and 1 month after their formation, many of the newly generated cells die. The present study investigated whether a partial lesion of one of the main nuclei projecting to the hippocampus, the medial septum (MS), affects survival and differentiation of cells during this critical period. Rats were injected with BrdU and 5 days later excitotoxic lesion of the MS was applied by infusion of either 30 or 60 nmol of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA). One week after the lesion, quantification of immunopositive cells revealed that the number of GABAergic cells was significantly reduced in both lesioned groups, whereas a decline in cholinergic cell number was observed only after injection of 60 nmol of NMDA. The partial septohippocampal denervation significantly reduced hippocampal neurogenesis. Survival of newly generated neurons was decreased by approximately 40%. The MS lesion did not affect proliferation of hippocampal progenitors. The present study points out the importance of a functional septohippocampal pathway for the regulation of hippocampal neurogenesis and highlights the potential role of GABA as a mediator in this phenomenon.
Sickness behaviour is an adaptive response to infection that includes lethargy, anorexia and of direct relevance to this work, learning and memory impairments. It has been suggested that proinflammatory cytokines may disrupt learning and memory by interfering with memory consolidation [C.R. Pugh, K. Kumagawa, M. Fleshner, L.R. Watkins, S.F. Maier, J.R. Rudy, Selective effects of peripheral lipopolysaccharide administration on contextual and auditory-cue fear conditioning, Brain Behav. Immun. 12 (1998) 212-229]. We tested whether systemic interleukin-1beta is sufficient to induce impairments in memory consolidation by comparing the effects of post-learning administration of interleukin-1beta with, the potent endotoxin, lipopolysaccharide; and saline, on retention of conditioned fear of a context. We administered an acute intraperitoneal injection of lipopolysaccharide, interleukin-1beta or saline immediately following a single conditioning episode in which rats received two tone-shock pairings. Two days following the learning episode, animals were tested for strength of conditioned responding to both the context and tone. Lipopolysaccharide-injected animals, but not interleukin-1beta-injected animals, exhibited less conditioned fear of context compared to saline-treated controls. All groups showed similar conditioned fear of tone. Our results suggest that systemic interleukin-1beta is not sufficient to disrupt memory consolidation, but rather, the synergistic actions of the proinflammatory cytokines released by lipopolysaccharide are required to disrupt memory consolidation.
Summary: Spinal dural arterio venous fistulas (SDAVFs) are the commonest type of spinal vascular malformations and are encountered mostly among adult patients. Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) in patients with SDAVFs demonstrates features like spinal cord swelling and signal changes. Cord signal changes are believed to be due to venous stasis.Treatment of a spinal vascular malformation may result in complete or partial resolution of MR findings with associated clinical improvement. The earliest documentation of reduction or disappearance of cord signal changes on post treatment MR images, was one month later in one series in the literature.We present and discuss disappearance of cord signal changes on MRI within 72 hours following endovascular treatment by liquid glue injection in a patient with SDAVF.
Voltage-gated Na(+) channel (VGSC) diversity is achieved through a number of mechanisms: multiple subunits, multiple genes encoding the pore-forming VGSC alpha-subunit and multiple gene isoforms generated by alternative splicing. A major type of VGSCalpha alternative splicing is in D1:S3, which has been proposed to be developmentally regulated. We recently reported a D1:S3 spliced form of Na(v)1.5 in human metastatic breast cancer cells. This novel 'neonatal' isoform differs from the counterpart 'adult' form at seven amino acids (in the extracellular loop between S3-S4 of D1). Here, we generated an anti-peptide polyclonal antibody, named NESOpAb, which specifically recognised 'neonatal' but not 'adult' Na(v)1.5 when tested on cells specifically over-expressing one or other of these Na(v)1.5 spliced forms. The antibody was used to investigate developmental expression of 'neonatal' Na(v)1.5 (nNa(v)1.5) in a range of mouse tissues by immunohistochemistry. Overall, the results were consistent with nNa(v)1.5 protein being more abundantly expressed in selected tissues (particularly heart and brain) from neonate as compared to adult animals. Importantly, NESOpAb blocked functional nNa(v)1.5 ion conductance when applied extracellularly at concentrations as low as 0.05 ng/ml. Possible biological and clinical applications of NESOpAb are discussed.
Conditioned environmental stimuli are known to be important determinants of drug seeking behavior. c-Fos, the protein product of the protooncogene c-Fos, is expressed in neurons when there are drug-associated cue-induced drug-seeking behaviour. Therefore, its expression could serve as a marker of regional neuronal activation. Using an extinction/reinstatement paradigm of relapse animal model, we trained Sprague-Dawley rats to nose-poke for i.v. heroin (0.05 mg/kg/infusion) either daily for 4h or 25 infusions for 14 consecutive days. We then tested these animals for cue-evoked heroin-seeking behavior after abstinence from self-administration of heroin for 14 days. Expression of c-Fos was examined in the lateral habenula (LHb), a region important for conveying information between the limbic forebrain and midbrain. Findings showed that heroin-associated conditioned stimuli could induce robust heroin-seeking behavior that was associated with increased c-Fos immunoreactivity in the medial part of the LHb. This observation suggests the involvement of the LHb in mediating drug cue-induced heroin-seeking behavior after abstinence from self-administration of heroin.
During neural development, coordinate regulation of cell-cycle exit and differentiation is essential for cell-fate specification, cell survival, and proper wiring of neuronal circuits. However, the molecules that direct these events remain poorly defined. In the developing spinal cord, the differentiation of motor neuron progenitors into postmitotic motor neurons is regulated by retinoid signaling. Here, we identify a retinoid-inducible gene, GDE2 (glycerophosphodiester phosphodiesterase 2), encoding a six-transmembrane protein that is necessary and sufficient to drive spinal motor neuron differentiation in vivo. A single amino acid mutation in the extracellular catalytic domain abolishes protein function. This reveals a critical role for glycerophosphodiester metabolism in motor neuron differentiation.



4.1B is a member of the protein 4.1 superfamily of proteins that link transmembrane proteins to the actin cytoskeleton. The 4.1B gene localizes to chromosome 18p11.3, which undergoes loss of heterozygosity in mammary tumors. Here, we examine the expression of 4.1B in murine mammary epithelium and find that 4.1B is dramatically upregulated in mammary epithelial cells during pregnancy when there is extensive cell proliferation. In contrast, 4.1B is not expressed in virgin, lactating, or involuting mammary epithelium. To examine the consequence of 4.1B loss on mammary epithelial cell proliferation, we analysed mammary glands in 4.1B-null mice. 4.1B loss results in a significant increase in mammary epithelial cell proliferation during pregnancy, but has no effect on mammary epithelial cell proliferation, in virgin or involuting mice. Furthermore, we show that 4.1B inhibits the proliferation of mammary epithelial cell lines by inducing a G1 cell cycle arrest, characterized by decreased cyclin A expression and reduced Rb phosphorylation, and accompanied by reduced erbB2 phosphorylation. This cell cycle arrest does not involve alterations in the activities of MAPK, JNK, or Akt. Collectively, our findings demonstrate that 4.1B regulates mammary epithelial cell proliferation during pregnancy and suggest that its loss may influence mammary carcinoma pathogenesis in multiparous women.
The aim of this study was to determine the localization of 5-hydroxytryptamine2C (5-HT2C) receptors on the motoneurons innervating the external anal sphincter (EAS) of male rats. Motoneurons were retrogradely labeled after percutaneous intramuscular injection of Fluorogold (FG) into the EAS. Using fluorescent immunohistochemistry, FG-positive EAS motoneurons that were immunoreactive for the 5-HT2C receptor (5-HT2C-IR) were targeted for specific examination with widefield microscopy or confocal laser scanning microscopy with spectral separation. Widefield microscopy revealed distributions of FG-positive EAS motoneurons in the L5-S1 gray matter corresponding to the dorsomedial cell group. 5-HT2C-IR positive cells were distributed in the intermediolateral cell column and the ventral horn. Ventral horn 5-HT2C-IR labeling included the dorsomedial cell group as well as the dorsolateral, ventromedial and ventrolateral areas. Confocal analysis of FG-positive EAS motoneurons and 5-HT2C-IR positive motoneuron profiles adjacent to EAS motoneurons that were not labeled with FG but presumably innervate the bulbospongiosus muscle confirmed that EAS motoneurons were immunopositive for the 5-HT2C receptor. These data suggest that previously identified descending serotonergic immunopositive fibers observed terminating on EAS motoneurons might mediate their input through the activation of 5-HT2C receptors.
Organotypic slices of the rat cerebellum, cultured in physiological levels [K+]o (5 mM) for 14 days, loose the majority of granule cells in the anterior lobe resulting in few axons and atypical Purkinje cell dendrites with vacant spines. When the culture medium was switched from 5 mM to 20, 30 or 40 mM [K+]o during the last 7 days of cultures, slices developed axons with numerous vesicle-filled boutons that made synaptic contact with Purkinje cell spines. Most boutons had one or two spine profile contacts, while some were unusually large. Enlarged boutons abutted Purkinje cell somata or their dendrites, causing intervening spines to invaginate terminals to form rosette synaptic complexes. Calbindin immuno-labeling excluded Purkinje cell axonal collaterals as the source of rosette boutons and suggested a granule cell origin. Quantification of vacant spines as compared to those on boutons revealed a threshold for potassium, between 10 and 20 mM, where the number of synaptic spines increased and vacant spines decreased drastically. These findings suggest that elevated [K+]o triggers an activity-dependent plasticity in rat cerebellar slice cultures by promoting axonal sprouting with formation of vesicle-filled boutons and synaptogenesis on open receptor sites of Purkinje cell spines.
Arousal and valence are proposed to represent fundamental dimensions of emotion. The neural substrates for processing these aspects of stimuli are studied widely, with recent studies of chemosensory processing suggesting the amygdala processes intensity (a surrogate for arousal) rather than valence. However, these investigations have assumed that a valence effect in the amygdala is linear such that testing valence extremes is sufficient to infer responses across valence space. In this study, we tested an alternative hypothesis, namely that valence responses in the amygdala are nonlinear. Using event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging, we measured amygdala responses to high- and low-concentration variants of pleasant, neutral, and unpleasant odors. Our results demonstrate that the amygdala exhibits an intensity-by-valence interaction in olfactory processing. In other words, the effect of intensity on amygdala activity is not the same at all levels of valence. Specifically, the amygdala responds differentially to high (vs low)-intensity odor for pleasant and unpleasant smells but not for neutral smells. This implies that the amygdala codes neither intensity nor valence per se, but a combination that we suggest reflects the overall emotional value of a stimulus.
Transgenic mice (Tg2576) overexpressing the Swedish mutation of the human amyloid precursor protein display biochemical, pathological, and behavioral markers consistent with many aspects of Alzheimer's disease, including impaired hippocampal function. Impaired, hippocampal-dependent, contextual fear conditioning (CFC) is observed in mice as young as 20 weeks of age. This impairment can be attenuated after treatment before training with the phosphodiesterase-4 inhibitor rolipram (0.1 mg/kg, i.p.). A rolipram-associated improvement is also observed in the littermate controls, suggesting that the effect of rolipram is independent of beta-amyloid. Acute treatment before training (but not after training or before testing) with the gamma-secretase inhibitor (GSI) N-[N-(3,5-difluorophenacetyl)-l-alanyl]-S-phenylglycine-t-butylester (DAPT), at a dose that reduces brain concentrations of beta-amyloid (100 mg/kg), attenuates the impairment in 20- to 65-week-old Tg2576 mice. Importantly, DAPT had no effect on performance of control littermates. These data are supportive of a role of beta-amyloid in the impairment of CFC in Tg2576 mice. Furthermore, they suggest that acute treatment with GSI may provide improved cognitive functioning as well as disease-modifying effects in Alzheimer's disease.
Drosophila dendritic arborization (da) neurons contain subclasses of neurons with distinct dendritic morphologies. We investigated calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) regulation of dendritic structure and dynamics in vivo using optically transparent Drosophila larvae. CaMKII increases the dynamic nature and formation of dendritic filopodia throughout larval development but only affects neurons that normally contain dendritic filopodia. In parallel, we examined the effects of Rac1 activity on dendritic structure to explore signaling specificity. In contrast to CaMKII activity, Rac1 does not alter filopodia stability but instead causes de novo filopodia formation on all da neurons. Although both mediators increase cytoskeletal turnover, measured by fluorescence recovery after photobleaching experiments, only CaMKII increases the dynamic nature of dendritic filopodia. CaMKII signaling thus appears to use mechanisms and machinery distinct from Rac1 signaling. This study illustrates a molecular means of uncoupling cytoskeletal regulation from morphological regulation. Our results suggest that Drosophila dendritic filopodia may share some cytoskeletal regulatory mechanisms with mammalian dendritic filopodia. Furthermore, general dendrite cytoskeletal compartmentalization is conserved in multipolar neurons.
TRPV1 (vanilloid receptor 1) receptors are activated by a variety of ligands such as capsaicin, as well as by acidic conditions and temperatures above 42 degrees C. These activators can enhance the potency of one another, shifting the activation curve for TRPV1 to the left. In this study, for example, we observed an approximately 10-fold shift in the capsaicin EC50 (640 nM to 45 nM) for rat TRPV1 receptors expressed in HEK-293 cells when the pH was lowered from 7.4 to 5.5. To investigate potential causes for this shift in capsaicin potency, the rates of current activation and deactivation of whole-cell currents were measured in individual cells exposed to treatments of pH 5.5, 1 microM capsaicin or in combination. Acidic pH was found to both increase the activation rate and decrease the deactivation rate of capsaicin-activated currents providing a possible mechanism for the enhanced potency of capsaicin under acidic conditions. Utilizing a paired-pulse protocol, acidic pH slowed the capsaicin deactivation rate and was readily reversible. Moreover, the effect could occur under modestly acidic conditions (pH 6.5) that did not directly activate TRPV1. When TRPV1 was maximally activated by capsaicin and acidic pH, the apparent affinity of the novel and selective capsaicin-site competitive TRPV1 antagonist, A-425619, was reduced approximately 35 fold. This shift was overcome by reducing the capsaicin concentration co-applied with acidic pH. Since inflammation is associated with tissue acidosis, these findings enhance understanding of TRPV1 receptor responses in inflammatory pain where tissue acidosis is prevalent.
The lamina C3 of the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus of the cat does not receive retinal projections but instead receives visual information from the small subpopulation of W-type ganglion cells via the upper substratum of the stratum griseum superficiale of the superior colliculus. We herein report a projection from the lateral division of the ventral lateral geniculate nucleus into the lamina C3 of the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus. As the lateral division receives projections from the contralateral retina and the ipsilateral upper stratum griseum superficiale of the superior colliculus, we suggest that these regions make up a small cell type W-cell neuronal network that provides visual information to layer I of the striate cortex via the lamina C3.
The oviduct is an exquisitely designed organ that functions in picking-up ovulated oocytes, transporting gametes in opposite directions to the site of fertilization, providing a suitable environment for fertilization and early development, and transporting preimplantation embryos to the uterus. A variety of biological processes can be studied in oviducts making them an excellent model for toxicological studies. This review considers the role of the oviduct in oocyte pick-up and embryo transport and the evidence that chemicals in both mainstream and sidestream cigarette smoke impair these oviductal functions. Epidemiological data have repeatedly shown that women who smoke are at increased risk for a variety of reproductive problems, including ectopic pregnancy, delay to conception, and infertility. In vivo and in vitro studies indicate the oviduct is targeted by smoke components in a manner that could explain some of the epidemiological data. Comparisons between the toxicity of smoke from different types of cigarettes, including harm reduction cigarettes, are discussed, and the chemicals in smoke that impair oviductal functioning are reviewed.

The role of the 5-HT(2A) receptor in modulating amphetamine-induced inhibition of dopamine neuronal firing in A9 and A10 was investigated in rat midbrain slices. The antipsychotic drugs olanzapine and clozapine more potently reversed the amphetamine-induced inhibition in A10 neurons compared to A9 neurons. Risperidone (0.03 and 0.1 microM) reversed amphetamine-induced inhibition of firing activity similarly in A9 and A10. The dopamine D2 receptor antagonist (-)sulpiride (0.05 and 1 microM) reversed the amphetamine (10 microM)-induced inhibition of firing activity in A9 and A10 neurons. The selective 5-HT(2A) receptor antagonist MDL 100907 (0.05 microM), strongly enhanced the reversal of amphetamine-induced inhibition by (-)sulpiride in A10, but its effectiveness was much smaller in A9 dopamine neurons. We conclude that 5-HT(2A) receptor antagonism enhanced reversal of amphetamine-induced inhibition by dopamine D2 antagonism in A10, suggesting that dopamine D(2) receptor antagonism combined with 5-HT(2A) receptor antagonism may play a role in antipsychotic drug atypicality.
Hippocampal infusions of glucose reverse memory deficits in spontaneous alternation and in a continuous multiple trial inhibitory avoidance task. The current experiments tested whether glucose metabolism may participate in these effects of glucose. Specifically, these experiments determined whether the glycolytic metabolite pyruvate would mimic these effects of glucose. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were given septal infusions of vehicle or the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) receptor agonist muscimol (0.15 nmol for spontaneous alternation or 5 nmol for continuous multiple trial inhibitory avoidance) combined with hippocampal infusions of vehicle or pyruvate (200 nmol) 15 min prior to assessing spontaneous alternation or training in a continuous multiple trial inhibitory avoidance task. The infusions of muscimol decreased percent alternation scores and continuous multiple trial inhibitory avoidance retention latencies tested 48 h after training. More importantly, hippocampal infusions of pyruvate reversed the deficits produced by septal infusions of muscimol on both tasks. These findings show for the first time that hippocampal infusions of pyruvate influence memory and suggest that glucose may affect memory via glycolytic metabolism.
Iron misregulation promotes oxidative stress and abnormally high iron levels have been found in the spinal cords of patients with ALS. The authors investigated whether HFE gene polymorphisms, linked to hemochromatosis, are associated with ALS using two independent populations of patients with sporadic ALS and controls (totaling 379 patients and 400 controls). They found that the H63D polymorphism is overrepresented in individuals with sporadic ALS (odds ratio 1.85, CI: 1.35 to 2.54).

Relatively little is known about the interneurons that constitute the mammalian locomotor central pattern generator and how they interact to produce behavior. A potential avenue of research is to identify genetic markers specific to interneuron populations that will assist further exploration of the role of these cells in the network. One such marker is the EphA4 axon guidance receptor. EphA4-null mice display an abnormal rabbit-like hopping gait that is thought to be the result of synchronization of the normally alternating, bilateral locomotor network via aberrant crossed connections. In this study, we have performed whole-cell patch clamp on EphA4-positive interneurons in the flexor region (L2) of the locomotor network. We provide evidence that although EphA4 positive interneurons are not entirely a homogeneous population, most of them fire in a rhythmic manner. Moreover, a subset of these interneurons provide direct excitation to ipsilateral motor neurons as determined by spike-triggered averaging of the local ventral root DC trace. Our findings substantiate the role of EphA4-positive interneurons as significant components of the ipsilateral locomotor network and describe a group of putative excitatory central pattern generator neurons.
Antibodies to myelin components are routinely detected in multiple sclerosis patients. However, their presence in some control subjects has made it difficult to determine their contribution to disease pathogenesis. Immunization of C57BL/6 mice with either rat or human myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG) leads to experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) and comparable titers of anti-MOG antibodies as detected by ELISA. However, only immunization with human (but not rat) MOG results in a B cell-dependent EAE. In this study, we demonstrate that these pathogenic and nonpathogenic anti-MOG antibodies have a consistent array of differences in their recognition of antigenic determinants and biological effects. Specifically, substituting proline at position 42 with serine in human MOG (as in rat MOG) eliminates the B cell requirement for EAE. All MOG proteins analyzed induced high titers of anti-MOG (tested by ELISA), but only antisera from mice immunized with unmodified human MOG were encephalitogenic in primed B cell-deficient mice. Nonpathogenic IgGs bound recombinant mouse MOG and deglycosylated MOG in myelin (tested by Western blot), but only pathogenic IgGs bound glycosylated MOG. Only purified IgG to human MOG bound to live rodent oligodendrocytes in culture and, after cross-linking, induced repartitioning of MOG into lipid rafts, followed by dramatic changes in cell morphology. The data provide a strong link between in vivo and in vitro observations regarding demyelinating disease, further indicate a biochemical mechanism for anti-MOG-induced demyelination, and suggest in vitro tools for determining autoimmune antibody pathogenicity in multiple sclerosis patients.
The mechanisms involving neuronal death after ischemic/hypoxic insult are complex, involving both rapid (excitotoxic) and delayed (apoptotic-like) processes. Recent evidence suggests that cell cycle regulators such as cyclin-dependent kinases are abnormally activated in neuropathological conditions, including stroke. However, the function of this activation is unclear. Here, we provide evidence that inhibition of the cell cycle regulator, Cdk4, and its activator, cyclinD1, plays critical roles in the delayed death component of ischemic/hypoxic stress by regulating the tumor suppressor retinoblastoma protein. In contrast, the excitotoxic component of ischemia/hypoxia is predominately regulated by Cdk5 and its activator p35, components of a cyclin-dependent kinase complex associated with neuronal development. Hence, our data both characterize the functional significance of the cell cycle Cdk4 and neuronal Cdk5 signals as well as define the pathways and circumstances by which they act to control ischemic/hypoxic damage.

The mediodorsal nucleus of the thalamus (MD) represents the main subcortical structure that projects to the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and it regulates key aspects of the cognitive functions of this region. Within the PFC, GABA local circuit neurons shape the activity patterns and hence the &quot;memory fields&quot; of pyramidal cells. Although the connections between the MD and PFC are well established, the ultrastructural relationships between projecting fibers from the MD and different subclasses of GABA cells in the PFC are not known. In order to address this issue in the rat, we examined MD axons labeled by tract-tracing in combination with immunogold-silver to identify different calcium-binding proteins localized within separate populations of interneurons. Electron micrographic examination of PFC sections from these animals revealed that MD terminals made primarily asymmetric synapses onto dendritic spines and less commonly onto dendritic shafts. Most of the dendrites receiving MD synaptic input were immunoreactive for parvalbumin (ParV), whereas MD synapses onto dendrites labeled for calretinin or calbindin were less frequent. We also observed that some MD terminals were themselves immunoreactive for calcium-binding proteins, again more commonly for ParV. These results suggest that the MD exerts a dual influence on PFC pyramidal cells: direct inputs onto spines and an indirect influence mediated via synapses onto each subclass of interneurons. The apparent preferential input to ParV cells endows MD afferents with a strong indirect inhibitory influence on pyramidal neuron activity by virtue of ParV cell synapses onto soma, proximal dendrites, and axon initial segments.
A simple, selective and sensitive high-performance liquid chromatographic method with spectrophotometric detection was developed for the determination of antihyperglycemic agent metformin in human plasma using a novel sample extraction procedure. Liquid-liquid extraction of metformin and ranitidine (as internal standard) from plasma samples was performed with 1-butanol/n-hexane (50:50, v/v) in alkaline condition followed by back-extraction into diluted acetic acid. Chromatography was carried out using a silica column (250 mmx4.6 mm, 5 microm) under isocratic elution with acetonitrile-40 mM aqueous sodium dihydrogen phosphate (25:75, v/v), pH 6. The limit of quantification (LOQ) was 15.6 ng/ml and the calibration curves were linear up to 2000 ng/ml. The mean absolute recoveries for metformin and internal standard using the present extraction procedure were 98 and 95%, respectively. The intra- and inter-day coefficient of variation and percent error values of the assay method were all less than 8.3%.
Females are more susceptible than males to multiple sclerosis (MS). However, the underlying mechanism behind this gender difference is poorly understood. Because the presence of neuroantigen-primed T cells within the CNS is necessary for the development of MS, the present study was undertaken to investigate the activation of microglia by myelin basic protein (MBP)-primed T cells of male, female, and castrated male mice. Interestingly, MBP-primed T cells isolated from female and castrated male but not from male mice induced the expression of inducible nitric-oxide synthase (iNOS) and proinflammatory cytokines (interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta), IL-1alpha, IL-6, and tumor necrosis factor-alpha) in microglia by cell-cell contact. Again there was no apparent defect in male microglia, because MBP-primed T cells isolated from female and castrated male but not male mice were capable of inducing the production of NO in male primary microglia. Inhibition of female T cell contact-mediated microglial expression of proinflammatory molecules by dominant-negative mutants of p65 and C/EBPbeta suggest that female MBP-primed T cells induce microglial expression of proinflammatory molecules through the activation of NF-kappaB and C/EBPbeta. Interestingly, MBP-primed T cells of male, female, and castrated male mice were able to induce microglial activation of NF-kappaB. However, MBP-primed T cells of female and castrated male but not male mice induced microglial activation of C/EBPbeta. These studies suggest that microglial activation of C/EBPbeta but not NF-kappaB by T cell:microglial contact is a gender-specific event and that male MBP-primed T cells are not capable of inducing microglial expression of proinflammatory molecules due to their inability to induce the activation of C/EBPbeta in microglia. This novel gender-sensitive activation of microglia by neuroantigen-primed T cell contact could be one of the mechanisms behind the female-loving nature of MS.
Amyloid-beta peptides (Abeta) are widely presumed to play a causal role in Alzheimer disease. Release of Abeta from the amyloid precursor protein (APP) requires proteolysis by the beta-site APP-cleaving enzyme (BACE1). Although increased BACE1 activity in Alzheimer disease brains and human (h) BACE1 transgenic (tg) mice results in altered APP cleavage, the contribution of these molecular alterations to neurodegeneration is unclear. We therefore used the murine Thy1 promoter to express high levels of hBACE1, with or without hAPP, in neurons of tg mice. Compared with hAPP mice, hBACE1/hAPP doubly tg mice had increased levels of APP C-terminal fragments (C89, C83) and decreased levels of full-length APP and Abeta. In contrast to non-tg controls and hAPP mice, hBACE1 mice and hBACE1/hAPP mice showed degeneration of neurons in the neocortex and hippocampus and degradation of myelin. Neurological deficits were also more severe in hBACE1 and hBACE1/hAPP mice than in hAPP mice. These results demonstrate that high levels of BACE1 activity are sufficient to elicit neurodegeneration and neurological decline in vivo. This pathogenic pathway involves the accumulation of APP C-terminal fragments but does not depend on increased production of human Abeta. Thus, inhibiting BACE1 may block not only Abeta-dependent but also Abeta-independent pathogenic mechanisms.
The present paper synthetically reviews the multiple experimental lines of evidence indicating the ability of the prototypic cannabinoid CB(1) receptor antagonist, rimonabant (also known as SR 141716), to suppress the reinforcing/rewarding properties of different drugs of abuse, including cocaine, heroin, nicotine and alcohol, in laboratory rodents. This paper also reviews the data demonstrating that rimonabant reduces food intake and body weight in laboratory animals and humans. Taken together, the data reviewed here suggest that rimonabant may constitute a new and potentially effective medication for the treatment of drug addiction and obesity-related disorders.
Male redback spiders (Latrodectus hasselti) maximize paternity if they copulate twice with their cannibalistic mate. Facilitating cannibalistic attack during their first copulation yields paternity benefits. However, females have paired sperm-storage organs inseminated during two separate copulations, so males that succumb to partial cannibalism during the first copulation lose at least 50% of their paternity to rivals. In this paper, we describe a novel male trait--an abdominal constriction that appears during courtship--that allows males to survive and mate with females for a second time, despite the substantial cannibalistic damage inflicted during the first copulation. Constricted males that were wounded to simulate early cannibalism had higher endurance, greater survivorship, longer subsequent courtship and higher mating success than wounded males that were not constricted. Constriction was not found in a non-sacrificial congener that rarely survived simulated cannibalism, and the protective effect of constriction in redbacks was specific to the type of damage inflicted by females during the first copulation. Thus, the abdominal constriction allows males to overcome the potential fitness limit imposed by their own suicidal strategy-paradoxically, by prolonging survival across two cannibalistic copulations.

The potent NMDA receptor antagonist, Conantokin-G (CGX-1007), a snail peptide, has an 8-h therapeutic window in rat focal cerebral ischemia. We hypothesized that the mechanism of neuroprotection is the inhibition of 'secondary phase' peri-infarct depolarizations (PIDs), recently shown to recur 6--24 h post-reperfusion. Rats were implanted with intrathecal (i.t.) catheters for drug delivery and DC-compatible electrodes for continuous PID monitoring and subjected to transient (2 h) middle cerebral artery occlusion. Four groups were studied. In two groups (C(40)C and C(20)C), continuous infusion of CGX--1007 was administered over 8--24 h post-occlusion at 0.1 microg/h (0.04 nmol/h) following either a 40- or 20-nmol bolus dose at 8 h. Another group (C(40)S) received the 40-nmol bolus followed by saline infusion, and a control group received saline. Intrathecal drug treatment reduced infarct volumes relative to controls by 61%, 31%, and 10% in C(40)C, C(40)S, and C(20)C groups, respectively, but also induced dose-dependent paralysis and elevated mortality. All rats had PID rates similar to the control group prior to treatment, but following treatment secondary phase PIDs were reduced by 47--57% in each drug group compared to controls. Because several animals exhibited PID inhibition but no neuroprotection, there was no significant correlation between these endpoints across groups. However, drug-treated animals that did not exhibit secondary phase PIDs prior to treatment had significantly smaller infarcts and reduced subsequent PID activity than corresponding control rats. Results suggest that post-reperfusion PIDs play a substantial, though still undefined pathogenic role in delayed maturation of cerebral infarction and NMDA receptor-targeted neuroprotection.
Phasically active sensory systems commonly influence rhythmic motor activity via synaptic actions on the relevant circuit and/or motor neurons. Using the crab stomatogastric nervous system (STNS), we identified a distinct synaptic action by which an identified proprioceptor, the gastropyloric muscle stretch receptor (GPR) neuron, regulates the gastric mill (chewing) motor rhythm. Previous work showed that rhythmically stimulating GPR in a gastric mill-like pattern, in the isolated STNS, elicits the gastric mill rhythm via its activation of two identified projection neurons, modulatory commissural neuron 1 (MCN1) and commissural projection neuron 2, in the commissural ganglia. Here, we determine how activation of GPR with a behaviorally appropriate pattern (active during each gastric mill retractor phase) influences an ongoing gastric mill rhythm via actions in the stomato gastric ganglion, where the gastric mill circuit is located. Stimulating GPR during each retractor phase selectively prolongs that phase and thereby slows the ongoing rhythm. This selective action on the retractor phase results from two distinct GPR actions. First, GPR presynaptically inhibits the axon terminals of MCN1, reducing MCN1 excitation of all gastric mill neurons. Second, GPR directly excites the retractor phase neurons. Because MCN1 transmitter release occurs during each retractor phase, these parallel GPR actions selectively reduce the buildup of excitatory drive to the protractor phase neurons, delaying each protractor burst. Thus, rhythmic proprioceptor feedback to a motor circuit can result from a global reduction in excitatory drive to that circuit, via presynaptic inhibition, coupled with a phase-specific excitatory input that prolongs the excited phase by delaying the onset of the subsequent phase.
The characteristic cell loss in layer III of the medial entorhinal area (MEA-III) in human mesial temporal lobe epilepsy is reproduced in the rat kainate model of the disease. To understand how this cell loss affects the functional properties of the MEA, we investigated whether projections from the presubiculum (prS), providing a main input to the MEA-III, are altered in this epileptic rat model. Injections of an anterograde tracer in the prS revealed bilateral projection fibers mainly to the MEA-III in both control and chronic epileptic rats. We further examined the prS-MEA circuitry using a 16-channel electrode probe covering the MEA in anesthetized control and chronic epileptic rats. With a second 16-channel probe, we recorded signals in the hippocampus. Current source density analysis indicated that, after prS double-pulse stimulation, afterdischarges in the form of oscillations (20-45 Hz) occurred that were confined to the superficial layers of the MEA in all epileptic rats displaying MEA-III neuronal loss. Slower oscillations (theta range) were occasionally observed in the deep MEA layers and the dentate gyrus. This kind of oscillation was never observed in control rats. We conclude that dynamical changes occur in an extensive network within the temporal lobe in epileptic rats, manifested as different kinds of oscillations, the characteristics of which depend on local properties of particular subareas. These findings emphasize the significance of the entorhinal cortex in temporal lobe epilepsy and suggest that the superficial cell layers could play an important role in distributing oscillatory activity.
Kv3 potassium channels, with their ultra-rapid gating and high activation threshold, are essential for high-frequency firing in many CNS neurons. Significantly, the Kv3.4 subunit has been implicated in the major CNS disorders Parkinson's and Alzheimer's diseases, and it is claimed that selectively targeting this subunit will have therapeutic utility. Previous work suggested that BDS toxins (&quot;blood depressing substance,&quot; from the sea anemone Anemonia sulcata) were specific blockers for rapidly inactivating Kv3.4 channels, and consequently these toxins are increasingly used as diagnostic agents for Kv3.4 subunits in central neurons. However, precisely how selective are these toxins for this important CNS protein? We show that BDS is not selective for Kv3.4 but markedly inhibits current through Kv3.1 and Kv3.2 channels. Inhibition comes about not by &quot;pore block&quot; but by striking modification of Kv3 gating kinetics and voltage dependence. Activation and inactivation kinetics are slowed by BDS-I and BDS-II, and V(1/2) for activation is shifted to more positive voltages. Alanine substitution mutagenesis around the S3b and S4 segments of Kv3.2 reveals that BDS acts via voltage-sensing domains, and, consistent with this, ON gating currents from nonconducting Kv3.2 are markedly inhibited. The altered kinetics and gating properties, combined with lack of subunit selectivity with Kv3 subunits, seriously affects the usefulness of BDS toxins in CNS studies. Furthermore, our results do not easily fit with the voltage sensor &quot;paddle&quot; structure proposed recently for Kv channels. Our data will be informative for experiments designed to dissect out the roles of Kv3 subunits in CNS function and dysfunction.
An outcome of the intricate K+ regulation in the cochlear duct is the endocochlear potential (EP), approximately 80 mV, the &quot;battery&quot; that runs hair-cell transduction; however, the detailed molecular mechanisms for the generation of the EP remain unclear. We provide strong evidence indicating that the intermediate cells (ICs) of the stria vascularis (StV) express outward K+ current that rectifies inwardly at positive potentials. The channel belongs to the ether-a-go-go-related gene (erg) family of K+ channels. We cloned an ERG1a channel in the mouse inner ear (MERG1a). The cellular distribution of MERG1a in the cochlea displayed the highest levels of immunoreactivity in the ICs and modest reactivity in the marginal cells as well as in several extrastrial cells (e.g., hair cells). Functional expression of the StV-specific MERG1a channel reveals a current that activates at relatively negative potentials (approximately-50 mV) and shows rapid inactivation reflected as inward rectification at depolarized potentials. The current was sensitive to the methanesulfonanilide drug E-4031 (IC50, approximately 165 nM) and the recombinant peptide rBeKm-1 (IC50, approximately 16 nM), and the single-channel conductance in symmetrical K+ was approximately 14 pS. The site of expression of MERG1a and its functional phenotype (e.g., modulation of the current by external K+ make it one of the most likely candidates for establishing the high throughput of K+ ions across ICs to generate EP. In addition, the property of the channel that produces marked K+ extrusion in increased external K+ may be important in shaping the dynamics of K+ cycling in the inner ear.
During cortical neurogenesis, cell proliferation and cell cycle exit are carefully regulated to ensure that the appropriate numbers of cells are produced. The antiproliferative agent transforming growth factor beta1 (TGFbeta1) and its receptors are endogenously expressed in proliferative zones of the developing cerebral cortex, thus implicating the growth factor in cell cycle regulation. The present study tested the hypothesis that TGFbeta1 promotes cell cycle exit in the cortical ventricular zone (VZ) through modulation of cell cycle protein expression, in particular cyclin D1 and the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors p27 and p21. Although it did not affect the length of the cell cycle, TGFbeta1 decreased the fraction of VZ-cycling cells by 21% and increased the number of VZ cells exiting the cell cycle a commensurate 24%. TGFbeta1 selectively increased the expression of p21 in the VZ. In addition, high p21 expression levels were observed in VZ cells as they exited the cell cycle, and TGFbeta1 increased the number p21-positive cells exiting the cell cycle. Collectively, these data show the following: (1) TGFbeta1 promotes cell cycle exit, (2) p21 upregulation is correlated with cell cycle exit, and (3) TGFbeta1-induced cell cycle exit is mediated by p21.
Oligodendrocyte maturation has been defined based on expression of developmentally regulated antigens. However, transitions at early stages of the lineage have not been functionally characterized fully in situ. Combining 2',3'-cyclic nucleotide 3'-phosphodiesterase (CNP)-promoter driven enhanced green fluorescent protein expression and whole-cell capacitance measurements permitted a reliable distinction between subcortical white matter NG2+ oligodendrocyte progenitors (OPs) and O4+ preoligodendrocytes (pre-OLs) in situ. We focused on K+ channels because their expression has been associated previously with the proliferation and differentiation potential of OPs. Using whole-cell patch clamp, we observed a downregulation of the delayed outward-rectifying current (IKDR) between the NG2+ and O4+ stages but no significant changes in transient K+-channel current (IKA) amplitude. Tyrosine kinase inhibition in NG2+ cells reduced IKDR amplitude with no effect on IKA, which mimicked the endogenous changes observed between OPs and pre-OLs. Tyrosine kinase inhibition also reduced the proliferative capacity of NG2+ OPs in slice cultures. Conversely, acute platelet-derived growth factor receptor-alpha (PDGFR-alpha) activation caused an increase of IKDR in NG2+ but not in O4+ cells. Consistent with this finding, PDGFR-alpha immunoreactivity was confined to NG2+ cells with undetectable levels in O4+ cells, suggesting that PDGFR-alpha signaling is absent in pre-OLs in situ. Importantly, the PDGF-induced increase of IKDR in NG2+ cells was prevented by tyrosine kinase inhibition. Together, these data indicate that PDGFR-alpha and tyrosine kinase activity act via a common pathway that influences functional expression of K+ channels and proliferative capacity of OPs in situ.
A new method for producing molecular gradients of arbitrary shape in thin three dimensional gels is described. Patterns are produced on the surface of the gel by printing with a micropump that dispenses small droplets of solution at controlled rates. The molecules in the solution rapidly diffuse into the gel and create a smooth concentration profile that is independent of depth. The pattern is relatively stable for long times, and its evolution can be accurately described by finite element modeling of the diffusion equation. As a demonstration of the method, direct measurements of protein gradients are performed by quantitative fluorescence microscopy. A complementary technique for measuring diffusion coefficients is also presented. This rapid, flexible, contactless approach to gradient generation is ideally suited for cell culture experiments to investigate the role of gradients of diffusible substances in processes such as chemotaxis, morphogenesis, and pattern formation, as well as for high-throughput screening of system responses to a wide range of chemical concentrations.

We recently cloned the full-length cDNA of a tumour-associated protein. The recombinant protein expressed in bacteria and referred to as angiocidin has potent antitumour activity in vivo and in vitro. Angiocidin inhibits tumour growth and angiogenesis by inducing apoptosis in endothelial cells. Based on the sequence similarity of angiocidin to S5a, one of the major polyubiquitin recognition proteins in eukaryotic cells, we postulated that the antiendothelial activity of angiocidin could be due in part to its polyubiquitin binding activity. In support of this hypothesis, we show that angiocidin binds polyubiquitin in vivo with high affinity and colocalises with ubiquitinated proteins on the surface of endothelial cells. Binding is blocked with an antiubiquitin antibody. Angiocidin treatment of endothelial cells transfected with a proteasome fluorescent reporter protein showed a dose-dependent inhibition of proteasome activity and accumulation of polyubiquitinated proteins. Full-length angiocidin bound polyubiquitin while three angiocidin recombinant proteins whose putative polyubiquitin binding sites were mutated either failed to bind polyubiquitin or had significantly diminished binding activity. The in vitro apoptotic activity of these mutants correlated with their polyubiquitin binding activity. These data strongly argue that the apoptotic activity of angiocidin is dependent on its polyubiquitin binding activity.
The discovery that the lateral hypothalamic area (LHA) might be important in modulating drinking behavior and fluid balance has led to numerous studies aimed at identifying the key neurotransmitters/neuromodulators and pathways involved. While past studies have demonstrated the presence of neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) within the LHA, its role in the regulation of fluid homeostasis is not known. In light of this, and the mounting evidence suggesting a role for nitric oxide in osmotic regulation within the hypothalamus, this study sought to determine the effects of 24- and 72-hours of water deprivation on nNOS protein expression within the LHA of the rat with immunohistochemistry. In euhydrated control animals we observed nNOS-like immunoreactivity throughout all levels of the LHA. Following 24 hours of dehydration the number of nNOS-like immunopositive neurons was significantly increased in the rostral but not the caudal regions of LHA. Seventy-two hours of water deprivation lead to further increases in nNOS-like immunoreactivity at different levels of the LHA. Interestingly, however, we observed increased nNOS-like immunoreactivity in the caudal regions of the LHA that was not evident after 24 hours of water deprivation. Double-labeling immunofluorescence histochemistry revealed that the nNOS-like immunoreactive neurons were not colocalized with the orexin-A-containing neurons. These results suggest that an osmotic challenge leads to an upregulation of nNOS immunoreactivity within discrete areas of the LHA. This altered neurochemistry within the LHA further highlights the potential importance of nitric oxide and the LHA in central regulation of fluid homeostasis.

The experiment examined the human visual perception of orientations and the nature of reference frame in which the oblique effect (lower performance in oblique orientations than in vertical or horizontal ones) was defined. Previous research [M. Luyat, E. Gentaz, Body tilt effect on the reproduction of orientations: studies on the visual oblique effect and subjective orientations, J. Exp. Psychol. Hum. Percept. Perform. 28 (2002) 1002-1011. M. Luyat, E. Gentaz, T.R. Corte, M. Guerraz, Reference frames and haptic perception of orientation: body and head tilt effects on the oblique effect, Percept. Psychophys. 63 (2001) 541-554], using head tilt paradigm to uncouple the gravitational, egocentric and subjective reference frames, showed that the oblique effect was mapped in a subjective gravitational reference frame with the subjective vertical as a cardinal orientation. However, the subjective vertical is not only affected by the tilt of head but also by the tilt of visual context. Then, the tilt of visual oriented cues is another paradigm permitting to evidence the role of the subjective gravitational reference frame. Sixteen participants were asked to reproduce five different orientations of a luminous line: horizontal (0 degrees ), 45 degrees (oblique), 90 degrees (vertical), 135 degrees (oblique) and the subjective vertical. These orientations were reproduced with no visual contextual cues and with tilted visual contextual cues tilted 15 degrees either to the left or to the right. The results showed that the oblique effect decreased with tilted visual contexts but was not completely suppressed. These results proved that this oblique effect is defined in a multimodal reference frame which integrates not only vestibular and proprioceptive cues but also peripheral visual information.
Minocycline is thought to be neuroprotective by inhibiting neuroinflammation (microglial activation) associated with neurodegenerative diseases. In this study we investigated the effect of minocycline specifically on microglial mitotic activity and neuronal regeneration within the facial nucleus following a nerve crush injury. Proliferation was measured by labeling the dividing microglia with 3H-thymidine and quantifying labeled cells throughout the facial nucleus on days 2, 3 and 4 post-axotomy. Regeneration patterns of the axotomized motoneurons were studied by labeling regenerating neurons with fluorogold at 7, 14 and 21 days post-axotomy. No significant difference was found between minocycline treated and control rats when comparing the 3H-thymidine labeled microglial cells or fluorogold labeled neurons at these post-injury time points. The findings show that microglia maintain the ability to become activated in vivo even in the presence of high levels of minocycline.

Cell signalling pathways that regulate proliferation and those that regulate programmed cell death (apoptosis) are co-ordinated. The proteins and mechanisms that mediate the integration of these pathways are not yet fully described. The phosphoprotein PEA-15 (phosphoprotein enriched in astrocytes) can regulate both the ERK (extracellular-signal-regulated kinase)/MAPK (mitogen-activated protein kinase) pathway and the death receptor-initiated apoptosis pathway. This is the result of PEA-15 binding to the ERK/MAPK or the proapoptotic protein FADD (Fas-activated death domain protein) respectively. The mechanism by which binding of PEA-15 to these proteins is controlled has not been elucidated. PEA-15 is a phosphoprotein containing a Ser-104 phosphorylated by protein kinase C and a Ser-116 phosphorylated by CamKII (calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II) or AKT. Phosphorylation of Ser-104 is implicated in the regulation of glucose metabolism, while phosphorylation at Ser-116 is required for PEA-15 recruitment to the DISC (death-initiation signalling complex). Moreover, PEA-15 must be phosphorylated at Ser-116 to inhibit apoptosis. In the present study, we report that phosphorylation at Ser-104 blocks ERK binding to PEA-15 in vitro and in vivo, whereas phosphorylation at Ser-116 promotes its binding to FADD. We further characterize phospho-epitope-binding antibodies to these sites. We report that phosphorylation does not influence the distribution of PEA-15 between the cytoplasm and nucleus of the cell since all phosphorylated states are found predominantly in the cytoplasm. We propose that phosphorylation of PEA-15 acts as the switch that controls whether PEA-15 influences proliferation or apoptosis.

The pathogenesis of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) involves the cooperation of mutations promoting proliferation/survival and those impairing differentiation. The RAS pathway has been implicated as a key component of the proliferative drive in AML. We have screened AML patients, predominantly younger than 60 years and treated within 2 clinical trials, for NRAS (n = 1106), KRAS (n = 739), and HRAS (n = 200) hot-spot mutations using denaturing high-performance liquid chromatography or restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) analysis. NRAS mutations were confirmed in 11% of patients (126/1106) and KRAS mutations in 5% (39/739). No HRAS mutations were detected in 200 randomly selected samples. Codons most frequently mutated were N12 (43%), N13 (21%), and K12 (21%). KRAS mutations were relatively overrepresented in French-American-British (FAB) type M4 (P &lt; .001). NRAS mutation was over-represented in the t(3;5)(q21 approximately 25;q31 approximately q35) subgroup (P &lt; .001) and underrepresented in t(15;17)(q22;q21) (P &lt; .001). KRAS mutation was overrepresented in inv(16)(p13q22) (P = .004). Twenty-three percent of KRAS mutations were within the inv(16) subgroup. RAS mutation and FLT3 ITD were rarely coexistent (14/768; P &lt; .001). Median percentage of RAS mutant allele assayed by quantitative RFLP analysis was 28% (N12), 19% (N13), 25% (N61), and 21% (K12). RAS mutation did not influence clinical outcome (overall/disease-free survival, complete remission, relapse rate) either for the entire cohort or within cytogenetic risk groups.
The optic tectum of vertebrates bears a set of visual neurons which can be differentiated by the expression of distinct calcium-binding proteins (CaBPs). Using immunohistochemistry, we mapped the distribution of the CaBPs calbindin (CB) and parvalbumin (PV) in the pigeon's optic tectum and examined if their differentiation is affected by retinal brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF)-injections. CB-immunoreactive (ir) and PV-ir cells displayed a lamination pattern which differed from other birds. While PV-ir cells were present in several retinorecipient tectal laminae, CB-ir cells were confined to layer 3 and 5 and - as a specialization of pigeons - were also detected in a subpopulation of layer 13 neurons. Comparison of saline- and BDNF-injected animals revealed that this general expression pattern was not affected by ocular BDNF-injections. In contrast, the size of tectal cells was differentially modulated. While CB-ir cells in layers 3 and 13 were unaffected by retinal BDNF, cells in layer 5 developed enlarged cell bodies. The PV-ir cells displayed smaller soma sizes within both tectal hemispheres suggesting also an indirect effect of retinal BDNF. These data indicate a differential sensitivity of tectal cell types to retinal BDNF, which might be one mechanism by which retinal input modulates tectal circuitries.
Herein we asked whether cells expressing calcium-binding proteins around the corticostriatal junction are of pallial or subpallial origin. Brains of rabbit embryos between embryonic day E18 and E28 and postnatal day 0-P22 were immunoreacted with monoclonal antibodies raised against calretinin, calbindin and parvalbumin. At E18-E21, calbindin- and calretinin-immunoreactive cells were seen in distinct proliferative zones in the vicinity of the corticostriatal junction. Whereas calbindin-immunoreactive neurons were in the ventricular zone of the ventral pallium (the medial wall of the lateral ventricular angle), calretinin-immunoreactive cells were, nearby, in the subventricular zone of the subpallium at the lateral edge of the lateral ganglionic eminence. From E25 to P22, both calbindin- and calretinin-immunoreactive cells appeared in the pallial ventricular and subventricular zones around the lateral ventricular angle. Some of these cells resembled migratory neuroblasts. Parvalbumin-immunoreactive cells appeared at P5-P10, albeit they were almost negligible in the proliferative zones around the corticostriatal junction and the lateral ventricular angle. The results suggest that a number of the calbindin-expressing neurons that are generated in mid-gestation and postnatally are of pallial origin. They also indicate that only a few of the late-generated calretinin-immunoreactive cells may have a pallial source. The origin of the parvalbumin-immunoreactive cells was not ascertained in the present study.
Teleost fish are unique for their enormous potential to produce new neurons in the adult brain. Nevertheless, the regulation of this adult neurogenesis remains to be characterized. Does it resort to the same molecular mechanisms as those at play in embryonic development? Here, we analyse the expression of the neurogenic gene Ol-DeltaA in the brain of medaka (Oryzias latipes) embryos and adults. To determine the relationships between neurogenic and growth-arrest genes in the adult brain, we compare the expression domains of Ol-DeltaA with those of Ol-KIP and Ol-Gadd45gamma, two well-characterized genes involved in cell-cycle arrest and growth inhibition. While it is widely assumed that genes controlling cell-cycle exit show restricted expression domains next to proliferating cells (in the sites of prospective cell differentiation), we observe highly particular expression domains of Ol-KIP and Ol-Gadd45gamma not associated to proliferating areas of the adult brain, suggesting locally different and cell-cycle independent roles of these molecules in the adult brain.
In general electrophysiological studies focus on the investigation of changes in discharge rate of neuronal responses which are related to sensory or behavioral events. However, equally important for explanation of higher cognitive functions, learning, memory storage and complex behavior is the interaction between neurons that are connected in cell assemblies. Synchronized inputs onto a neuron are much more effective at eliciting the following activity than uncorrelated inputs. The goal of the present study was to determine either the changes in discharge rate of neurons in the pigeon nidopallium caudolaterale as well as the synchronicity of these neurons during a discriminatory learning task. We found rate modulation effects as well as modulation of synchronization during the learning process.
Is it possible to produce the same cognitive function with different brain organizations? This question is approached for working memory, a cognitive entity that is equally organized in birds and mammals. The critical forebrain structure for working memory is the nidopallium caudolaterale (NCL) in birds and the prefrontal cortex (PFC) in mammals. Although both structures share a large number of neural architectural features, they are probably not homologous but represent a remarkable case of convergent evolution. In reviewing the neuronal mechanisms for working memory in birds and mammals it becomes apparent that the similarities of NCL and PFC extend from the neuronal activation patterns during memory tasks down to the biophysical mechanisms of synaptic currents. Both in mammals and birds, dopamine acts via D1-receptors to tune preactivated neurons into sustained high-frequency patterns with which goal states can be held over time until an appropriate response can be generated. The degrees of freedom to create different neural architectures to solve the problem of 'stimulus maintenance' seem to be very small.

In non-vertebrate chordates, central nervous system (CNS) development has been studied in only two taxa, the Cephalochordata and a single Class (Ascidiacea) of the morphologically diverse Urochordata. To understand development and molecular regionalization of the brain in a different deeply diverging chordate clade, we isolated and determined the expression patterns of orthologs of vertebrate CNS markers (otxa, otxb, otxc, pax6, pax2/5/8a, pax2/5/8b, engrailed, and hox1) in Oikopleura dioica (Subphylum Urochordata, Class Larvacea). The three Oikopleura otx genes are expressed similarly to vertebrate Otx paralogs, demonstrating that trans-homologs converged on similar evolutionary outcomes by independent neo- or subfunctionalization processes during the evolution of the two taxa. This work revealed that the Oikopleura CNS possesses homologs of the vertebrate forebrain, hindbrain, and spinal cord, but not the midbrain. Comparing larvacean gene expression patterns to published results in ascidians disclosed important developmental differences and similarities that suggest mechanisms of development likely present in their last common ancestor. In contrast to ascidians, the lack of a radical reorganization of the CNS as larvaceans become adults allows us to relate embryonic gene expression patterns to three subdivisions of the adult anterior brain. Our study of the Oikopleura brain provides new insights into chordate CNS evolution: first, the absence of midbrain is a urochordate synapomorphy and not a peculiarity of ascidians, perhaps resulting from their drastic CNS metamorphosis; second, there is no convincing evidence for a homolog of a midbrain-hindbrain boundary (MHB) organizer in urochordates; and third, the expression pattern of &quot;MHB-genes&quot; in the urochordate hindbrain suggests that they function in the development of specific neurons rather than in an MHB organizer.
Genetic screens for synaptogenesis mutants have been performed in many organisms, but few if any have simultaneously screened for defects in pre- and postsynaptic specializations. Here, we report the results of a small-scale genetic screen, the first in vertebrates, for defects in synaptogenesis. Using zebrafish as a model system, we identified seven mutants that affect different aspects of neuromuscular synapse formation. Many of these mutant phenotypes have not been previously reported in zebrafish and are distinct from those described in other organisms. Characterization of mutant and wild-type zebrafish, from the time that motor axons first arrive at target muscles through adulthood, has provided the new information about the cellular events that occur during neuromuscular synaptogenesis. These include insights into the formation and dispersal of prepatterned AChR clusters, the relationship between motor axon elongation and synapse size, and the development of precise appositions between presynaptic clusters of synaptic vesicles in nerve terminals and postsynaptic receptor clusters. In addition, we show that the mechanisms underlying synapse formation within the myotomal muscle itself are largely independent of those that underlie synapse formation at myotendinous junctions and that the outgrowth of secondary motor axons requires at least one cue not necessary for the outgrowth of primary motor axons, while other cues are required for both. One-third of the mutants identified in this screen did not have impaired motility, suggesting that many genes involved in neuromuscular synaptogenesis were missed in large scale motility-based screens. Identification of the underlying genetic defects in these mutants will extend our understanding of the cellular and molecular mechanisms that underlie the formation and function of neuromuscular and other synapses.
A prominent region of the vertebrate hindbrain is subdivided along the anterior-posterior axis into a series of seven segments, or rhombomeres. The identity of each rhombomere is specified by the expression of conserved transcription factors, including Krox-20, vHnf1, Val (Kreisler, Mafb) and several Hox proteins. Previous work has shown that retinoic acid (RA) signaling plays a critical role in regulating the expression of these factors and that more posterior rhombomeres require higher levels of RA than more anterior rhombomeres. Models to account for RA concentration dependency have proposed either a static RA gradient or increasing time periods of RA exposure. Here, we provide evidence against both of these models. We show that early zebrafish rhombomere-specification genes, including vhnf1 in r5-r6 and hoxd4a in r7, initiate expression sequentially in the hindbrain, each adjacent to the source of RA synthesis in paraxial mesoderm. By knocking down RA signaling, we show that progressively more posterior rhombomeres require increasingly higher levels of RA signaling, and vhnf1 and hoxd4a expression are particularly RA-dependent. RA synthesis is required just at the time of initiation, but not for maintenance, of vhnf1 and hoxd4a expression. Furthermore, a premature RA increase causes premature activation of vhnf1 and hoxd4a expression. Our results support a new model of dynamic RA action in the hindbrain, in which a temporally increasing source of RA is required to sequentially initiate progressively more posterior rhombomere identities.
POP-1, a Tcf/Lef-1-like target of the convergent Wnt and MAP kinase (MAPK) signaling pathways, functions throughout Caenorhabditis elegans development to generate unequal daughters during asymmetric cell divisions. A particularly prominent such asymmetric division occurs when the EMS blastomere divides to produce MS, a mesoderm precursor, and E, the sole endoderm progenitor. POP-1 allows mesoderm development in the MS lineage by repressing the endoderm-promoting end-1 and end-3 genes. This repression is relieved in the E lineage by Wnt/MAPK signaling, which results in phosphorylation and export of POP-1 from the E nucleus. Here, we report that, in addition to repressing E development in MS, POP-1 also functions positively in endoderm development, in conjunction with the well-characterized endoderm-promoting SKN-1--&gt;MED regulatory cascade. While removal of POP-1 alone results in derepression of endoderm development in the MS lineage, mutations in several genes that result in impenetrant loss of endoderm are strongly enhanced by loss of pop-1 function. A Lef-1-like binding site is essential for activation of an end-1 promoter fusion, suggesting that POP-1 may act directly on end-1. Thus, POP-1 may generate developmental asymmetry during many cell divisions in C. elegans by reiteratively switching from repressive and activating states. Furthermore, we report that the Caudal-like homeodomain protein PAL-1, whose role in early embryogenesis was thought to be exclusive specification of mesectodermal development in the lineage of the C blastomere, can act with POP-1 to activate endoderm specification in the absence of the SKN-1--&gt;MED transcriptional input, accounting for the impenetrance of mutants lacking SKN-1 or MED-1,2 activity. We conclude that the combined action of several separate transcriptional regulatory inputs, including SKN-1, the MEDs, PAL-1, and the Wnt/MAPK-activated form of POP-1, are responsible for activating end gene transcription and endoderm development.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic autoimmune demyelinating disorder of the central nervous system (CNS) of unknown etiology. Several studies have shown that demyelination in MS is caused by proinflammatory mediators which are released by perivascular infiltrates and/or activated glial cells. To understand if proinflammatory mediators such as IL (interleukin)-1beta and TNF (tumor necrosis factor)-alpha are capable of modulating the expression of myelin-specific genes, we investigated the effect of these cytokines on the expression of myelin basic protein (MBP), 2',3'-cyclic nucleotide 3'-phosphodiesterase (CNPase), myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG), and proteolipid protein (PLP) in human primary oligodendrocytes. Interestingly, both IL-1beta and TNF-alpha markedly inhibited the expression of MOG, CNPase, and PLP but not MBP, the effect that was blocked by antioxidants such as N-acetylcysteine (NAC) and pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate (PDTC). Consistently, oxidants and prooxidants like H(2)O(2) and diamide also markedly inhibited the expression of MOG, CNPase, and PLP. Furthermore, both IL-1beta and TNF-alpha induced the production of H(2)O(2). Taken together, these studies suggest that proinflammatory cytokines inhibit the expression of myelin genes in human primary oligodendrocytes through the alteration of cellular redox.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common and incurable neurodegenerative disease, affecting 1% of the population over the age of 65. Despite a well-described clinical and pathological phenotype, the molecular mechanisms which lead to neurodegeneration remain elusive. However, there is a wealth of evidence from both toxin based models and genetic based models, which suggest a major etiologic role for mitochondrial dysfunction, protein aggregation, the ubiquitin-proteasome system and kinase signalling pathways in the pathogenesis of PD. Ultimately, an understanding of the molecular events which precipitate neurodegeneration in idiopathic PD will enable the development of targeted and effective therapeutic strategies. We review the latest evidence for the proposed molecular processes and discuss their relevance to the pathogenesis of sporadic PD.
Multiple sclerosis is an immune-mediated disease of the CNS and shows a sex-biased distribution in which 60-75% of all cases are female. A mouse model of multiple sclerosis, Theiler's murine encephalomyelitis virus (TMEV)-induced demyelinating disease, also displays a gender bias. However, in the C57L/J strain of mice, males are susceptible to disease whereas females are completely resistant. In this study we determined the gender differences in the TMEV-specific immune response, which may be responsible for the gender bias in clinical disease. Our data clearly demonstrate that female C57L/J mice induce significantly higher levels of TMEV-specific neutralizing Ab as well as a stronger peripheral T cell response throughout the course of viral infection. In contrast, male mice have a higher level of TMEV-specific CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cell infiltration into the CNS as well as viral persistence. These results suggest that a higher level of the initial antiviral immune response in female mice may be able to effectively clear virus from the periphery and CNS and therefore prevent further disease manifestations. Male mice in contrast do not mount as effective an immune response, thereby allowing for eventual viral persistence in the CNS and continuous T cell expansion leading to clinical symptoms.
The planar cell polarity (PCP) pathway, a noncanonical Wnt signaling pathway, is crucial for embryonic development in all animals as it is responsible for the regulation of coordinated orientation of structures within the plane of the various epithelia. In the mammalian cochlea, one of the best examples of planar polarity in vertebrates, stereociliary bundles located on mechanosensory hair cells within the sensory epithelium are all uniformly polarized. Generation of this polarity is important for hair cell mechanotransduction and auditory perception as stereociliary bundles are only sensitive to vibrations in their single plane of polarization. We describe the two step developmental process that results in the generation of planar polarity in the mammalian inner ear. Furthermore, we review evidence for the role of Wnt signaling, and the possible generation of a Wnt gradient, in planar polarity.
We report a 40-year-old man with myotonic dystrophy who survived for 5 years after pontine infarction. Serial MRI detected abnormal T2 elongation of the corticospinal tract at the cerebral peduncle 4 years after the infarction. An autopsy confirmed the existence of retrograde degeneration extending from the pons to the internal capsule, evidence that retrograde degeneration in the corticospinal tract occurs above the pontine level. MRI was suggested to be useful for detection of the degenerative process.
Noncognitive behavioral and psychiatric disturbances are common in dementia and help in the clinical differentiation of the various subtypes. We studied the frequency of neuropsychiatric disturbances, their relationship to dementia severity and compared these disturbances in Alzheimer's disease (AD), vascular dementia (VaD) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD) using the 12-item Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI). A total of 98 patients (AD-44, VaD-31, FTD-23) were evaluated. All subjects were community dwelling at the time of evaluation. The three groups were comparable on global dementia severity and functional ability. All patients had clinically significant scores on the NPI with apathy, irritability and agitation being very common (&gt;90% of patients). AD and VaD patients in Clinical Dementia Rating (CDR) stage 2 had significantly higher scores on the total NPI, agitation and disinhibition subscales compared to those in CDR stage 1. Mean scores in the domains of aberrant motor behavior, disinhibition and appetite/eating behavior differentiated FTD from AD and VaD. Neuropsychiatric disturbances in dementia appear to be universal with agitation, disinhibition and irritability being more frequent in the later stages. In this cohort disinhibition, aberrant motor behavior and appetite/eating disturbances could reliably differentiate AD and VaD from FTD. There were no significant differences between the neuropsychiatric profiles of AD and VaD.
Nerve cells may survive or die after axonal or dendritic transection. After neurite transection near (&lt;50 mum) the cell body of Fura-2-loaded B 104 neuroblastoma (rat brain-derived) cells, the somal calcium concentration (SCC) undergoes a three-phase transient change: a rapid (0-0.15-min post-transection [PT]) rise phase, followed by an early (0.15--1.5-min PT) rapid decay phase, and succeeded by a late (1.5-60-min PT) slower decay phase that restores SCC to preinjury levels. The SCC in a critical interval (1.5-12.5 min PT) of the third transient phase correlates with cell fate, i.e., most transected cells that exclude dye (restore a barrier) and die have a significantly higher (P&lt;0.005) SCC in this critical interval than do transected cells that exclude dye and survive at 24-hr PT. Loading BAPTA (chelation of somal Ca(2+)) before, but not after, the critical interval increases the percentage of cells that survive compared to that of cells transected without BAPTA loading. Furthermore, most transected cells that die despite successful barrier restoration exhibit characteristics consistent with apoptosis initiated during the critical interval of the SCC, including caspase activation and plasmalemmal phosphatidylserine translocation. These data suggest that decreased cell survival for injuries near the soma is due to Ca(2+)-initiated apoptosis during the critical interval of the third phase of the SCC transient. (c) 2005 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
A fraction derived from presynaptic specializations (presynaptic particle fraction; PPF) can be separated from postsynaptic densities (PSD) by adjusting the pH of Triton X-100 (TX-100) extraction of isolated transsynaptic scaffolds. Solubilization of the PPF corresponds to disruption of the presynaptic specialization. We show that the PPF is insoluble to repeated TX-100 extraction at pH 6.0 but becomes soluble in detergent at pH 8.0. By immunolocalization, we find that the major proteins of the PPF, clathrin and dynamin, are concentrated in the presynaptic compartment. By using multidimensional protein identification technology, we compared the protein compositions of the PPF and the PSD fraction. We identified a total of 341 proteins, 50 of which were uniquely found in the PPF, 231 in the PSD fraction, and 60 in both fractions. Comparison of the two fractions revealed a relatively low proportion of actin and associated proteins and a high proportion of vesicle or intracellular compartment proteins in the PPF. We conclude that the PPF consists of presynaptic proteins not connected to the actin-based synaptic framework; its insolubility in pH 6 and solubility in pH 8 buffered detergent suggests that clathrin might be an anchorage scaffold for many proteins in the PPF.
Cerebral ischemia in adult rodent models increases the proliferation of endogenous neural progenitor cells residing in the subventricular zone along the anterior horn of the lateral ventricle (SVZ a) and induces neurogenesis in the postischemic striatum and cortex. Whether the adult primate brain preserves a similar ability in response to an ischemic insult is uncertain. We used the DNA synthesis indicator bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) to label newly generated cells in adult macaque monkeys and show here that the proliferation of cells with a progenitor phenotype (double positive for BrdU and the markers Musashi 1, Nestin, and beta III-tubulin) in SVZ a increased during the second week after a 20-min transient global brain ischemia. Subsequent progenitor migration seemed restricted to the rostral migratory stream toward the olfactory bulb and ischemia increased the proportion of adult-generated cells retaining their location in SVZ a with a progenitor phenotype. Despite the lack of evidence for progenitor cell migration toward the postischemic striatum or prefrontal neocortex, a small but sustained proportion of BrdU-labeled cells expressed features of postmitotic neurons (positive for the protein Neu N and the transcription factors Tbr 1 and Islet 1) in these two regions for at least 79 days after ischemia. Taken together, our data suggest an enhanced neurogenic response in the adult primate telencephalon after a cerebral ischemic insult.
Recent studies have indicated that muscarinic receptors are involved in the pathophysiology in schizophrenia, particularly in cognitive deficits. The superior temporal gyrus (STG) is an area that has also been strongly implicated in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. Therefore, in this study, we investigated the binding density of two muscarinic antagonists, [(3)H]pirenzepine and [(3)H]AF-DX 384, in the STG of schizophrenia patients compared with controls. A significant decrease (44% in the superficial layers and 48% in the deep layers, P&lt;0.01) in binding density of [(3)H]pirenzepine was observed in schizophrenia patients, which suggested a reduction of muscarinic M1 and M4 receptor densities in the STG of schizophrenia patients. A tendency toward decreased [(3)H]AF-DX 384 binding density (34%, P=0.09) was also observed in schizophrenia patients compared with controls. Because of the positive correlation between [(3)H]pirenzepine and [(3)H]AF-DX 384 binding, and, insofar as both ligands have high affinities for the M4 receptor, the involvement of M4 receptor alteration is also suggested in the STG in schizophrenia. These results suggest that changes of the muscarinic receptors M1 and M4 might contribute to the STG pathology in schizophrenia.
We examined the efficacy of FK 506 in reducing tissue damage after spinal cord injury in comparison to methylprednisolone (MP) treatment. Rats were subjected to a photochemical injury (T8) and were given a bolus of MP (30 mg/kg), FK 506 (2 mg/kg), or saline. An additional group received an initial bolus of FK 506 (2 mg/kg) followed by daily injections (0.2 mg/kg intraperitoneally). Functional recovery was evaluated using open-field walking, inclined plane tests, motor evoked potentials (MEPs), and the H-reflex response during 14 days postoperation (dpo). Tissue sparing and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), biotinylated tomato lectin LEC, cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), and interleukin 1 beta (IL-1 beta) immunoreactivity were quantified in the injured spinal cord. FK 506-treated animals demonstrated significantly better neurologic outcome, higher MEP amplitudes, and lower H-wave amplitude compared to that of saline-treated rats. In contrast, administration of MP did not result in significant differences with respect to the saline-treated group. Histologic examination revealed that tissue sparing was largest in FK 506-treated compared to saline and MP-treated animals. GFAP and COX-2 reactivity was decreased in animals treated with FK 506 compared to that in animals given MP or saline, whereas IL-1 beta expression was similarly reduced in both FK 506- and MP-treated groups. Microglia/macrophage response was reduced in FK 506 and MP-injected animals at 3 dpo, but only in MP-treated animals at 7 dpo with respect to saline-injected rats. Repeated administrations of FK 506 improved functional and histologic results to a greater degree than did a single bolus of FK 506. The results indicate that FK 506 administration protects the damaged spinal cord and should be considered as potential therapy for treating spinal cord injuries.
Although prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) has been shown to be critical to hippocampal synaptic signaling and neuronal survival, it is still not clear which subtypes of PGE2 receptors (EPs) are expressed and how these EPs are regulated in the hippocampus. To address these questions, the expression of the EPs was profiled in the hippocampus. Messenger RNAs and proteins of the four receptors, EP 1-4, were detected both in the hippocampus and in the neocortex. EP 2 and EP 3 appeared in greater abundance, whereas EP 1 and EP 4 were barely detectable. EP 1, EP 2 and EP 4 were mainly colocalized with synaptophysin, suggesting the presence of EP 1, EP 2, and EP 4 in presynaptic terminals. It appeared that interleukin-1 beta increased the expression of EP 2 and EP 4 mRNAs. A blockade of synaptic transmission with either tetrodotoxin or MK-801 plus 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (DNQX) for 6 hr increased EP 3 and EP 4 mRNA, whereas high K(+) (90 mM) or 4-aminopyridine enhanced EP 2 and EP 4. The EP 1 level did not change significantly under these conditions. The expressions of EP 2, EP 4, and EP 3 were further elevated or reduced in neurons treated with high K(+) for 24 hr. However, mRNA of EP 3 was down-regulated in neurons treated with tetrodotoxin or MK-801 plus DNQX for 24 hr. In addition, both EP 2 and EP 4 mRNAs were up-regulated within 4 hr after high-frequency stimulation associated with long-term potentiation induction in hippocampal slices. Our results indicate that the four EPs are heterogeneously expressed in the hippocampus, and their expression is differentially regulated by neuronal activities, suggesting that EPs may actively participate in hippocampal synaptic transmission and plasticity.
The glutamatergic granule cells of the dentate gyrus transiently express GABAergic markers after seizures. Here we show that when this occurs, their activation produces (i) GABA(A) receptor-mediated synaptic field responses in CA3, with the physiological and pharmacological characteristics of mossy fibre transmission, and (ii) GABA(A) receptor-mediated collateral inhibition. Control hippocampal slices present, on stimulation of the dentate gyrus, population responses in stratum lucidum, which are blocked by ionotropic glutamate receptor antagonists. By contrast, in slices from rats subjected to seizures in vivo, dentate activation additionally produces GABA(A) receptor-mediated field synaptic responses in the presence of glutamate receptor antagonists. One-dimensional current source density analysis confirmed the spatial coincidence of the glutamatergic and GABAergic dendritic currents. The GABA(A) receptor-mediated field responses show frequency-dependent facilitation and strong inhibition during activation of metabotropic glutamate receptors. In the presence of glutamate receptor blockers, a conditioning pulse delivered to one site of the dentate gyrus inhibits the population synaptic response and the afferent volley provoked by the activation of a second site, in a bicuculline-sensitive manner. In accordance with this, antidromic responses evoked by mossy fibre activation were enhanced by perfusion of bicuculline. Our results suggest that, for GABA receptor-dependent field potentials to be detected, a considerable number of boutons of a well-defined GABAergic pathway should simultaneously release GABA to act on a large number of receptors. Therefore, putative GABA release from the mossy fibres acts on pre- and postsynaptic sites to affect hippocampal activity at the network level after seizures.
Cyclic AMP regulates Ca(2+)-dependent exocytosis through a classical protein kinase A (PKA)-dependent and an alternative cAMP-guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF)/Epac-dependent pathway in many secretory cells. Although increased cAMP is believed to double secretory output in isolated pituitary cells, the direct target(s) for cAMP action and a detailed and high-time resolved analysis of the effect of intracellular cAMP levels on the secretory activity in melanotrophs are still lacking. We investigated the effect of 200 microM cAMP on the kinetics of secretory vesicle depletion in mouse melanotrophs from fresh pituitary tissue slices. The whole-cell patch-clamp technique was used to depolarize melanotrophs and increase the cytosolic Ca(2+) concentration ([Ca(2+)](i)). Exogenous cAMP elicited an about twofold increase in cumulative membrane capacitance change and approximately 34% increase of high-voltage activated Ca(2+) channel amplitude. cAMP-dependent mechanisms did not affect [Ca(2+)](i), since the application of forskolin failed to change [Ca(2+)](i) in melanotrophs, a phenomenon readily observed in anterior lobe. Depolarization-induced secretion resulted in two distinct kinetic components: a linear and a threshold component, both stimulated by cAMP. The linear component (ATP-independent) probably represented the exocytosis of the release-ready vesicles, whereas the threshold component was assigned to the exocytosis of secretory vesicles that required ATP-dependent reaction(s) and &gt; 800 nM [Ca(2+)](i). The linear component was modulated by 8-pCPT-2Me-cAMP (Epac agonist), while either H-89 (PKA inhibitor) or Rp-cAMPS (the competitive antagonist of cAMP binding to PKA) completely prevented the action of cAMP on the threshold component. In line with this, 6-Phe-cAMP, (PKA agonist), increased the threshold component. From our study, we suggest that the stimulation of cAMP production by application of oestrogen, as found in pregnant mice, increases the efficacy of the hormonal output through both PKA and cAMP-GEFII/Epac2-dependent mechanisms.
Suppose that the variability in our movements is caused not by noise in the motor system itself, nor by fluctuations in our intentions or plans, but rather by errors in our sensory estimates of the external parameters that define the appropriate action. For tasks in which precision is at a premium, performance would be optimal if no noise were added in movement planning and execution: motor output would be as accurate as possible given the quality of sensory inputs. Here we use visually guided smooth-pursuit eye movements in primates as a testing ground for this notion of optimality. In response to repeated presentations of identical target motions, nearly 92% of the variance in eye trajectory can be accounted for as a consequence of errors in sensory estimates of the speed, direction and timing of target motion, plus a small background noise that is observed both during eye movements and during fixations. The magnitudes of the inferred sensory errors agree with the observed thresholds for sensory discrimination by perceptual systems, suggesting that the very different neural processes of perception and action are limited by the same sources of noise.
How does ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (VLPFC) control mnemonic processing? Alternative models propose that VLPFC guides top-down (controlled) retrieval of knowledge from long-term stores or selects goal-relevant products of retrieval from among competitors. A paucity of evidence supports a retrieval/selection distinction, raising the possibility that these models reduce to a common mechanism. Here, four manipulations varied semantic control demands during fMRI: judgment specificity, cue-target-associative strength, competitor dominance, and number of competitors. Factor analysis revealed evidence for a metafactor that accounted for common behavioral variance across manipulations and for functional variance in left mid-VLPFC. These data support a generalized control process that selects relevant knowledge from among competitors. By contrast, left anterior VLPFC and middle temporal cortex were sensitive to cue-target-associative strength, but not competition, consistent with a control process that retrieves knowledge stored in lateral temporal cortex. Distinct PFC mechanisms mediate top-down retrieval and postretrieval selection.
The molecular mechanisms controlling the differentiation of neural progenitors into distinct subtypes of neurons during neocortical development are unknown. Here, we report that Fezl is required for the specification of corticospinal motor neurons and other subcerebral projection neurons, which are absent from Fezl null mutant neocortex. There is neither an increase in cell death in Fezl(-/-) cortex nor abnormalities in migration, indicating that the absence of subcerebral projection neurons is due to a failure in fate specification. In striking contrast, other neuronal populations in the same and other cortical layers are born normally. Overexpression of Fezl results in excess production of subcerebral projection neurons and arrested migration of these neurons in the germinal zone. These data indicate that Fezl plays a central role in the specification of corticospinal motor neurons and other subcerebral projection neurons, controlling early decisions regarding lineage-specific differentiation from neural progenitors.
A major unanswered question concerning &quot;pain&quot; circuitry is the extent to which different populations of primary afferent nociceptor engage the same or different ascending pathways. In the present study, we followed the transneuronal transport of a genetically expressed lectin tracer, wheat germ agglutinin, in Na(V)1.8-expressing nociceptors of the nonpeptide class. We found that interneurons of lamina II are at the origin of the major ascending circuits targeted by the nonpeptide nociceptors. These interneurons contact lamina V projection neurons, which in turn predominantly target fourth-order neurons in the amygdala, hypothalamus, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, and to a remarkable extent, the globus pallidus. These circuits differ greatly from the lamina I-based projection that is targeted by the peptide class of nociceptors. Our results indicate that parallel, perhaps independent pain pathways arise from different nociceptor classes and that motor as well as limbic targets predominate in the circuits that originate from the nonpeptide population.
Do associative learning and synaptic long-term potentiation (LTP) depend on the same cellular mechanisms? Recent work in the amygdala reveals that LTP and Pavlovian fear conditioning induce similar changes in postsynaptic AMPA-type glutamate receptors and that occluding these changes by viral-mediated overexpression of a dominant-negative GluR1 construct attenuates both LTP and fear memory in rats. Novel forms of presynaptic plasticity in the lateral nucleus may also contribute to fear memory formation, bolstering the connection between synaptic plasticity mechanisms and associative learning and memory.
As knowledge of microRNAs (miRNA) grows from a compendium of sequences to annotated functional data it has become increasingly clear that a highly significant segment of regulatory biology depends on these approximately 22 nucleotide noncoding transcripts. The expression of many miRNAs in the nervous system, some with a high degree of temporal and spatial specificity, suggests that understanding miRNAs in the nervous system will yield rewarding neurobiological insights. High on the list of insights that microRNAs promise is a deeper understanding of the remarkable cellular diversity found among neurons. This review examines the interface between an emerging biology of miRNAs and their role in nervous systems.
One of the greatest challenges in the understanding and treatment of addiction is cue-elicited relapse to drug use. The present findings of Miller and Marshall and Lee et al. reported in this issue of Neuron demonstrate that retrieved drug-related memories undergo reconsolidation and thus suggest that these maladaptive associations may be more labile than previously thought.
Pain consists of both a sensory component and an affective component. In this issue of Neuron, Braz and colleagues genetically targeted the transneuronal tract tracer wheat germ agglutinin (WGA) to nonpeptidergic nociceptive neurons. They found that these neurons give rise to a specialized multisynaptic circuit that links pain signals in the periphery to limbic/affective regions of the brain.
In this paper, a framework involving four aspects to be considered when establishing an operational definition of non-homeostatic appetitive behavior is presented. The four aspects are (1) the quantity of the commodity consumed, (2) the quality or type of commodity consumed, (3) the context in which the behavior occurs, and (4) the specific kind of behavior that is directed toward obtaining and consuming the commodity of interest. This framework permits comparisons among a variety of non-homeostatic behaviors and accommodates different theoretical approaches reflected in the use of mechanistic, systems, behavioral, nutritional, and clinical experimental strategies. The speakers of this symposium were selected to emphasize the four aspects of non-homeostatic behavior, to represent several different approaches, and to facilitate discussion regarding neural similarities and differences between non-homeostatic eating and drug abuse. The various talks illustrated that boundaries need not exist among research fields, and that communication among the various areas enhances the research effort.


DSM-IV included a type of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) with poor insight in the official classification. The present study was performed using a continuous measure of the level of insight to analyze the association between this variable and characteristics of the disorder. Seventy-four consecutive OCD outpatients (DSM-IV criteria) were assessed using: a semistructured interview for sociodemographic and clinical features, the Yale-Brown Obsessive-Compulsive Scale (Y-BOCS), the National Institute of Mental Health Obsessive-Compulsive Scale (NIMH-OCS), the Hamilton Depression and Anxiety Rating Scales (HDRS, HARS), and the Overvalued Ideas Scale (OVIS) as a continuous measure of the level of insight. Stepwise multiple regression analysis revealed that demographic and clinical factors were related to the OVIS score. The following four factors were found to be significantly related to the OVIS score: the Y-BOCS score for compulsions, OCD chronic course, and family history of OCD were positively related, while obsessive-compulsive personality disorder was negatively related. These results suggest that poor insight identifies a group of OCD patients with distinct clinical characteristics.

Norepinephrine is a neurotransmitter with peripheral and central actions mediated by alpha-1, alpha-2, and beta-adrenergic receptors. In this paper, we report an expression of alpha-2 adrenergic receptors in developing white matter tracts as revealed by [(3)H]RX821002 autoradiography. In rats, these receptors are present in the corpus callosum and anterior commissure at gestational day 20. Quantification of their postnatal expression reveals peak expression in the corpus callosum at postnatal day 1, which decreases with maturation and disappears by postnatal day 21. Expression in the anterior commissure is persistently elevated throughout the first ten days of postnatal development and then decreases to near background levels by postnatal day 21. Further characterization of the receptors by agonist-stimulated [(35)S]GTPgammaS binding verifies alpha-2 adrenergic receptors are functionally coupled to G proteins early in development and therefore are mature receptors. In situ hybridization did not detect mRNA for any of the alpha-2 adrenergic receptor subtypes (A, B, and C) in white matter tracts of postnatal day 5 brain. [(3)H]RX821002 emulsion autoradiography demonstrated autoradiographic grains that were of comparable density between cells and over cell bodies. Collectively, these data suggest that alpha-2 adrenergic receptors in neonatal commissures are synthesized at sites distant from their white matter expression and may be guiding the maturation of these brain commissures.
Recent evidence suggests an important role for corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) and CRH receptors in cocaine reinforcement. CRH receptor antagonists reduce cocaine self-administration and attenuate the reinstatement of extinguished cocaine-seeking behavior, but little is known about the mechanisms involved. One possible mechanism for these effects may involve the cocaine-induced activation of CRH located in brain regions outside of the hypothalamus. CRH has been shown to increase dopaminergic transmission in regions relevant for cocaine reinforcement, such as the medial prefrontal cortex and the nucleus accumbens. Here, we report that CP-154,526, a CRH1-receptor antagonist, actually enhances cocaine-induced increases in dopamine overflow in the medial prefrontal cortex, measured using in vivo microdialysis. In contrast, the receptor antagonist did not alter cocaine-induced increases in dopamine in most of the nucleus accumbens, except for the most rostral part. These data suggest a surprising role for prefrontal cortex dopamine in the ability of CRH-receptor antagonists to attenuate cocaine seeking in rats.
Brainstem nuclei have well established roles in generating nonlearned rhythmic behaviors or as output pathways for more complex, forebrain-generated behaviors. However, the role of the brainstem in providing information to the forebrain that is used to initiate or assist in the control of complex behaviors is poorly understood. In this study, we used electrical microstimulation in select nuclei of the avian song system combined with recordings of acoustic and respiratory output to examine how forebrain and brainstem nuclei interact in the generation of learned vocal motor sequences. We found that brief stimulation in the forebrain nuclei HVC (used as a proper name) and RA (robust nucleus of the arcopallium) caused a short-latency truncation of ongoing song syllables, which ultimately led to a cessation of the ongoing motor sequence. Stimulation within the brainstem inspiratory-related nucleus paraambigualis, which receives input from RA and projects back to HVC via the thalamus, caused syllable truncations and interruptions similar to those observed in HVC and RA. In contrast, stimulation in the tracheosyringal portion of the hypoglossal nucleus, which innervates the syrinx (the avian vocal organ) but possesses no known projections back into the song system, did not cause any significant changes in the song motor pattern. These findings suggest that perturbation of premotor activity in any nucleus within the recurrent song system motor network will disrupt the ongoing song motor sequence. Given the anatomical organization of this network, our results are consistent with a model in which the brainstem respiratory nuclei form an integral part of the song motor programming network by providing timing signals to song control nuclei in the forebrain.
Sensitivity to the similarity of the acoustic waveforms at the two ears, and specifically to changes in similarity, is crucial to auditory scene analysis and extraction of objects from background. Here, we use the high temporal resolution of magnetoencephalography to investigate the dynamics of cortical processing of changes in interaural correlation, a measure of interaural similarity, and compare them with behavior. Stimuli are interaurally correlated or uncorrelated wideband noise, immediately followed by the same noise with intermediate degrees of interaural correlation. Behaviorally, listeners' sensitivity to changes in interaural correlation is asymmetrical. Listeners are faster and better at detecting transitions from correlated noise than transitions from uncorrelated noise. The cortical response to the change in correlation is characterized by an activation sequence starting from approximately 50 ms after change. The strength of this response parallels behavioral performance: auditory cortical mechanisms are much less sensitive to transitions from uncorrelated noise than from correlated noise. In each case, sensitivity increases with interaural correlation difference. Brain responses to transitions from uncorrelated noise lag those from correlated noise by approximately 80 ms, which may be the neural correlate of the observed behavioral response time differences. Importantly, we demonstrate differences in location and time course of neural processing: transitions from correlated noise are processed by a distinct neural population, and with greater speed, than transitions from uncorrelated noise.
Prions represent a unique class of infectious agents in which the normal cellular prion protein (PrPC) is converted to an abnormal isoform (PrPSc), which accumulates in the brain and constitutes the major, if not the only, component of the infectious particle. Factors that still remain to be identified may facilitate the conversion of PrPC to PrPSc. In the present study, we first demonstrated that a growth factor of the neurotrophin family, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), stimulates the formation of PrPSc in a gonadotropin-releasing hormone-secreting neuronal cell line (GT1-1 cells) infected with the Rocky Mountain Laboratory (RML) strain of scrapie as determined by Western blot analysis. We then observed that the prion-infected cells can be cleared from PrPSc by treatment with three inhibitors of mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 1/2 (MEK1/2) [1,4-diamino-2,3-dicyano-1,4-bis(o-aminophenylmercapto)butadiene and 2-(2-amino-3-methyoxyphenyl)-4H-1-benzopyran-4-one, as well as alpha-[amino[(4-aminophenyl)thio]methylene]-2-(trifluoromethyl) benzeneacetonitrile, which passes the blood-brain barrier], a component of one of the intracellular signaling pathways activated by BDNF. The MEK1/2 inhibitors were also efficient in clearing PrPSc from prion-infected GT1-1 cells stimulated to accumulate high levels of PrPSc by enhanced serum concentrations in the medium or by the use of a serum-free neuron-specific neurobasal medium. PrPSc did not reappear in the cultures within 5 weeks after completion of treatment. We conclude that inhibitors of the MEK1/2 pathway can efficiently and probably irreversibly clear PrP(Sc) from prion-infected cells. The MEK pathway may therefore be a suitable target for therapeutic intervention in prion diseases.
Herbal cannabis, smoked in the form of marihuana or hashish, is the most common illicit drug consumed in the Western world. In the brain, cannabinoids interact with neuronal CB1 receptors, thereby producing a marked reduction of motor activity. Here, we report that the motor depressant effect produced by the cannabinoid receptor agonist (-)-cis-3-[2-hydroxy-4-(1,1-dimethylheptyl)phenyl]trans-4-(3-hydroxypropyl)cyclohexanol (CP55,940) is attenuated by genetic inactivation of the dopamine- and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein of 32 kDa (DARPP-32), which is abundantly expressed in the medium spiny neurons of the striatum. Point mutation of Thr34, the protein kinase A (PKA) phosphorylation site of DARPP-32, produces a similar reduction in the effect of the CB1 agonist. In contrast, point mutation of Thr75, a site on DARPP-32 specifically phosphorylated by cyclin-dependent kinase 5, does not affect the behavioral response to CP55,940. Activation of CB1 receptors, either by an agonist or by inhibition of reuptake of endogenous cannabinoids, stimulates phosphorylation at Thr34, thereby converting DARPP-32 into an inhibitor of protein phosphatase-1. Genetic inactivation either of dopamine D2 receptors or of adenosine A2A receptors reduces the phosphorylation of DARPP-32 at Thr34 and the motor depression produced by CP55,940. Our data indicate that a considerable proportion of the psychomotor effect of cannabinoids can be accounted for by a signaling cascade in striatal projection neurons involving PKA-dependent phosphorylation of DARPP-32, achieved via modulation of dopamine D2 and adenosine A2A transmission.
Activation of NMDA receptors (NMDARs) within the CNS represents a major signal for persistent alterations in glutamatergic signaling, such as long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression. NMDARs are composed of a combination of NR1 and NR2 subunits, with distinct NR2 subunits imparting distinct characteristics on the receptor. One particular NR2 subunit, NR2A (NRepsilon1), has been proposed to play an integral role in LTP induction in the hippocampus and cortex. Here, we report studies investigating the role of NR2A in LTP induction in the dorsolateral bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (dlBNST). The putative NR2A-specific inhibitor NVP-AAM077 (AAM077) has been used previously to demonstrate the dependence of cortical and hippocampal LTP on NMDARs containing NR2A subunits. We report here the same sensitivity of LTP to pretreatment with AAM077 (0.4 microm) in the dlBNST. However, inconsistent with the conclusion that LTP in the dlBNST is NR2A dependent, we see intact LTP in the dlBNST of NR2A knock-out mice. Because we also see blockade of this dlBNST LTP in NR2A knock-out mice after pretreatment with AAM077, we conclude that the antagonist is targeting non-NR2A subunit-containing receptors. Using a variety of cultured cell types, we find that AAM077 (0.4 microm) can attenuate transmission of NR2B subunit-containing NMDARs when preapplied rather than coapplied with an agonist. Therefore, we conclude that NR2A is not obligatory for the induction of LTP in the dlBNST. Furthermore, our data demonstrate that care must be exercised in the interpretation of data generated with AAM077 when the compound is applied before an agonist.


Distribution kinetics of 18F-fluoro-dihydroxy phenylalanine (18F-DOPA) were studied with high-resolution micro-positron emission tomography (microPET) imaging and conventional methods in control wild-type mice, heterozygous weaver mutant mice, and homozygous weaver mutant mice. 18F-DOPA uptake was significantly increased in the CNS within 60 min in all the genotypes examined. Homozygous weaver mutant mice exhibited significantly reduced 18F-DOPA uptake in the region of interest (striatum) as compared to heterozygous weaver mutant mice and control wild-type mice. 18F-DOPA was de-localized in the kidneys of homozygous weaver mutant mice. The radioactivity was localized primarily in the liver and kidneys within 2 h and in the urinary bladder within 4 h. After 8 h, it could be detected neither by conventional nor by microPET imaging. Distribution kinetics of 18F-DOPA with microPET imaging correlated and confirmed the conventional observations. These data are interpreted to suggest that microPET imaging may provide an efficient, noninvasive, cost-effective procedure to study distribution kinetics of PET radiopharmaceuticals in rare genetically altered animals. Furthermore, this unique and noninvasive approach may expedite quality control and drug development for human applications.
The daily light:dark cycle synchronizes the circadian timing system by resetting the phase of the circadian pacemaker on a daily basis. Light acutely increases mRNA levels of the clock genes Per1 and Per2 in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), the site of the primary circadian pacemaker in mammals. Light is conveyed to the SCN through the retinohypothalamic tract (RHT), an efferent projection from retinal ganglion cells that releases the excitatory amino acid (EAA) neurotransmitter glutamate in the SCN. EAA receptor activation in the SCN is critical for the ability of light to phase-shift the circadian pacemaker. In a previous study, we demonstrated that EAA receptor activation is necessary and sufficient for light to acutely increase Per1 mRNA levels in the SCN. In the current study, we determined whether EAA receptor activation in the SCN is necessary for the ability of light to increase Per2 mRNA levels in the SCN in Syrian hamsters. The NMDA receptor antagonist AP5 and the AMPA/kainate receptor antagonist DNQX inhibited the ability of light and NMDA to acutely increase Per2 mRNA levels in the SCN. In hamsters injected with DNQX, Per1 and Per2 mRNA levels remained slightly elevated in the ventrolateral SCN, suggesting that AMPA/kainate receptor activation in this region is not critical for the effects of light on the circadian pacemaker.
To determine the frequency of LRRK2 mutations in idiopathic Parkinson disease (PD), the authors studied 786 PD probands, 32 affected siblings, 1,044 unaffected siblings, and 278 unrelated controls. The authors designed allelic discrimination assays for nine LRRK2 mutations and identified these in six probands with PD, one affected sibling, one unaffected sibling, and one unrelated control. Thus LRRK2 mutations only rarely cause idiopathic PD.



Age-related learning deficits are often attributed to deterioration of hippocampal function. Conversely, a well studied index of hippocampal activity, the rhythm, is known to enhance hippocampal plasticity and accelerate learning rate in young subjects, suggesting that manipulations of activity might be used as a means to counteract impairments related to the aging process. Here, young and older rabbits were given eyeblink conditioning trials either when exhibiting hippocampal (+) or regardless of hippocampal activity (yoked control). Although, as expected, older-yoked control animals showed a learning deficit, the older + group learned as fast as young controls, demonstrating that aging deficits, at least in eyeblink classical conditioning, can be overcome by giving trials during episodes of hippocampal activity. The use of several learning criteria showed that the benefits of hippocampal occur in multiple phases of learning that may depend on different cognitive or motor processes. Whereas there was a benefit of -triggered training in both age groups during the early phase of acquisition, the enhancement persisted in older animals, peaking during later performance. These findings have implications for theories of age-related memory deficits and may contribute to the development of beneficial treatments.
We provide an overall view of the functional tonotopic organization of the auditory cortex in the rat. We apply a recently developed technique for acquiring intrinsic signal optical maps, Fourier imaging, in the rat auditory cortex. These highly detailed maps, derived in a several-minute-long recording procedure, delineate multiple auditory cortical areas and demonstrate their shapes, sizes, and tonotopic order. Beyond the primary auditory cortex, there are at least three distinct areas with fine-scale tonotopic organization, as well as at least one additional high-frequency field. The arrangement of all of these cortical areas is consistent across subjects. The accuracy of these optical maps was confirmed by microelectrode mapping in the same subjects. This imaging method allows fast mapping of the auditory cortex at high spatial resolution comparable to that provided by conventional microelectrode technique. Although spiking activity is largely responsible for the evoked intrinsic signals, certain features of the optical signal cannot be explained by spiking activity only, and should probably be attributed to other mechanisms inducing metabolic activity, such as subthreshold membrane phenomena.
Asthma, like many inflammatory disorders, is affected by psychological stress, suggesting that reciprocal modulation may occur between peripheral factors regulating inflammation and central neural circuitry underlying emotion and stress reactivity. Despite suggestions that emotional factors may modulate processes of inflammation in asthma and, conversely, that peripheral inflammatory signals influence the brain, the neural circuitry involved remains elusive. Here we show, using functional magnetic resonance imaging, that activity in the anterior cingulate cortex and insula to asthma-relevant emotional, compared with valence-neutral stimuli, is associated with markers of inflammation and airway obstruction in asthmatic subjects exposed to antigen. This activation accounts for &gt; or =40% of the variance in the peripheral markers and suggests a neural basis for emotion-induced modulation of airway disease in asthma. The anterior cingulate cortex and insula have been implicated in the affective evaluation of sensory stimulation, regulation of homeostatic responses, and visceral perception. In individuals with asthma and other stress-related conditions, these brain regions may be hyperresponsive to disease-specific emotional and afferent physiological signals, which may contribute to the dysregulation of peripheral processes, such as inflammation.
The pathology of schizophrenia is characterized by increased hippocampal activity at baseline and during auditory hallucinations. Animal-model studies in which the flow of activity to the hippocampus is increased through decreased amygdalar GABAergic inhibition have shown alterations of hippocampal circuitry similar to schizophrenia, but the functional importance of this phenomenon remains unclear. We provide evidence of decreased hippocampal feed-forward and tonic GABA-mediated inhibition in this animal model, complementing increased hippocampal activity seen in neuroimaging and postmortem studies. We demonstrate that GABA dysfunction increases long-term potentiation through activation of the cholinergic system, offering a new mechanism for pharmacological strategies of this disorder.
In neurons, proper distribution of mitochondria in axons and at synapses is critical for neurotransmission, synaptic plasticity, and axonal outgrowth. However, mechanisms underlying mitochondrial trafficking throughout the long neuronal processes have remained elusive. Here, we report that syntabulin plays a critical role in mitochondrial trafficking in neurons. Syntabulin is a peripheral membrane-associated protein that targets to mitochondria through its carboxyl-terminal tail. Using real-time imaging in living cultured neurons, we demonstrate that a significant fraction of syntabulin colocalizes and co-migrates with mitochondria along neuronal processes. Knockdown of syntabulin expression with targeted small interfering RNA or interference with the syntabulin-kinesin-1 heavy chain interaction reduces mitochondrial density within axonal processes by impairing anterograde movement of mitochondria. These findings collectively suggest that syntabulin acts as a linker molecule that is capable of attaching mitochondrial organelles to the microtubule-based motor kinesin-1, and in turn, contributes to anterograde trafficking of mitochondria to neuronal processes.

Polyglutamine (polyQ) expansions cause neurodegeneration that is associated with protein misfolding and influenced by functional properties of the host protein. The polyQ disease protein, ataxin-3, has predicted ubiquitin-specific protease and ubiquitin-binding domains, which suggest that ataxin-3 functions in ubiquitin-dependent protein surveillance. Here we investigate direct links between the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway and ataxin-3. In neural cells we show that, through its ubiquitin interaction motifs (UIMs), normal or expanded ataxin-3 binds a broad range of ubiquitinated proteins that accumulate when the proteasome is inhibited. The expression of a catalytically inactive ataxin-3 (normal or expanded) causes ubiquitinated proteins to accumulate in cells, even in the absence of proteasome inhibitor. This accumulation of ubiquitinated proteins occurs primarily in the cell nucleus in transfected cells and requires intact UIMs in ataxin-3. We further show that both normal and expanded ataxin-3 can undergo oligoubiquitination. Although this post-translational modification occurs in a UIM-dependent manner, it becomes independent of UIMs when the catalytic cysteine residue of ataxin-3 is mutated, suggesting that ataxin-3 ubiquitination is itself regulated in trans by its own de-ubiquitinating activity. Finally, pulse-chase labeling reveals that ataxin-3 is degraded by the proteasome, with expanded ataxin-3 being as efficiently degraded as normal ataxin-3. Mutating the UIMs does not alter degradation, suggesting that UIM-mediated oligoubiquitination of ataxin-3 modulates ataxin-3 function rather than stability. The function of ataxin-3 as a de-ubiquitinating enzyme, its post-translational modification by ubiquitin, and its degradation via the proteasome link this polyQ protein to ubiquitin-dependent pathways already implicated in disease pathogenesis.
The Alzheimer's disease-linked genes, PS1 and PS2, are required for intramembrane proteolysis of multiple type I proteins, including Notch and amyloid precursor protein. In addition, it has been documented that PS1 positively regulates, whereas PS1 familial Alzheimer disease mutations suppress, phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/Akt activation, a pathway known to inactivate glycogen synthase kinase-3 and reduce tau phosphorylation. In this study, we show that the loss of presenilins not only inhibits PI3K/Akt signaling and increases tau phosphorylation but also suppresses the MEK/ERK pathway. The deficits in Akt and ERK activation in cells deficient in both PS1 and PS2 (PS-/-) are evident after serum withdrawal and stimulation with fetal bovine serum or ligands of select receptor tyrosine kinases, platelet-derived growth factor receptor beta (PDGFR beta) and PDGFR alpha, but not insulin-like growth factor-1R and epidermal growth factor receptor. The defects in PDGF signaling in PS-/- cells are due to reduced expression of PDGF receptors. Whereas fetal bovine serum-induced Akt activation is reconstituted by both PS1 and PS2 in PS-/- cells, PDGF signaling is selectively restored by PS2 but not PS1 and is dependent on the N-terminal fragment of PS2 but not gamma-secretase activity or the hydrophilic loop of PS2. The rescue of PDGF receptor expression and activation by PS2 is facilitated by FHL2, a PS2-interacting transcriptional co-activator. Finally, we present evidence that PS1 mutations interfere with this PS2-mediated activity by reducing PS2 fragments. These findings highlight important roles of both presenilins in Akt and ERK signaling via select signaling receptors.
We study the dynamics of macroscopic observables such as the magnetization and the energy per degree of freedom in Ising spin models on random graphs of finite connectivity, with random bonds and/or heterogeneous degree distributions. To do so, we generalize existing versions of dynamical replica theory and cavity field techniques to systems with strongly disordered and locally treelike interactions. We illustrate our results via application to, e.g., +/-J spin glasses on random graphs and of the overlap in finite connectivity Sourlas codes. All results are tested against Monte Carlo simulations.
Schizophrenia is a chronic and debilitating disease which is thought to arise from a neuro-developmental disorder. Both the stable tubule-only polypeptide (STOP) protein and the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) NR1 subunit are involved in neuronal development and physiology. It has therefore been postulated that transgenic mice lacking either the STOP or the NMDAR1 gene would show a 'schizophrenic-like' phenotype. Here, STOP knockout and NMDA NR1 hypomorphic mice were assessed in a behavioural measure that can be used to detect schizophrenic-like phenotypes: a change in sensorimotor gating, measured through prepulse inhibition (PPI). STOP knockout mice were further assessed in another measure of 'schizophrenic-like behaviour': hyperlocomotion. The PPI deficit exhibited by both the STOP knockout and NMDA knockdown mice could not be reversed by acute treatment with the atyptical antipsychotic, clozapine (1 mg/kg, i.p.) but the hyperlocomotion shown by the STOP knockout mice was reversed with the same acute dose of clozapine.
Regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) was studied in a task, where a preparatory stimulus (S1) cued for an imperative second stimulus (S2) which was associated with a response. Two preparatory stimuli cued unequivocally each for one response. In contrast, a third preparatory stimulus cued for two response alternatives which appeared for the same ratio (each in 50% of all trials) introducing response competition. In a first experimental condition, non-arbitrary, unambiguous stimuli were used as S1 to enable the subjects to prepare their responses. In a second and third scan, arbitrary preparatory stimuli were used during different stages of awareness for the S1-S2 association. Subjects performed this task &quot;naive&quot; without knowledge about the S1-S2 association and also in an experimental condition being aware of the S1-S2 association. Button presses after unambiguous, non-arbitrary preparatory stimuli activated the right middle frontal gyrus and inferior parietal lobe if S1 was associated with a definite response. When the subjects did not know the S1-S2 relation, left prefrontal cortex activation was associated with trials including definite responses. Performing the same S1-S2 response condition after subjects knew their relation right prefrontal and left parietal areas became additionally engaged. However, in the first experimental condition using unambiguous, non-arbitrary stimuli and in the third, &quot;aware&quot; experimental condition when S1 was coupled with two response alternatives, the anterior cingulate cortex was activated. As these experimental conditions have in common, that the preparatory stimulus shares information about the upcoming competing response alternatives they highlight the evaluative role of the anterior cingulate cortex for competing actions.
Sex differences occur not only in the sexual repertoire of animals but also are evident in other aspects of movement. The present study asked whether sexually dimorphic motor behavior extends to the skilled movements used in reaching for food in the rat. Because we have previously shown that males and females are sexually dimorphic in their organization of lateral and rotatory movements and because postural adjustments are incorporated into skilled movements, both body posture and limb movements were examined during a skilled reaching task. Male and female Long-Evans rats were filmed, from both the front and ventral views and their stepping patterns, postural adjustments and forelimb movements, during a successful reach were analyzed. While males and females did not differ in forelimb movements, they were significantly different in how they approached and oriented their body to the food item during a successful reach. These results are discussed in relation to the dissociation of skilled movement from postural adjustments, sex-dependent alterations following CNS injury, and the neural and evolutionary basis of sex differences in movement organization.
Tacrine is a potent and reversible inhibitor of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) in the brain. It produces tremor in animals, which is believed to be due to an increase in the brain acetylcholine level following AChE inhibition. The present study was undertaken to investigate the involvement, if any, of biogenic amines in the genesis of this motor dysfunction. Administration of tacrine (10-20 mg/kg, i.p.) produced dose- and time-dependent tremor in Balb/c mice. While in vivo inhibition of striatal AChE activity was observed only for the highest dose of tacrine, a dose-dependent increase in striatal choline acetyltransferase activity was obtained. Serotonin (5-HT) levels, as assayed following a sensitive HPLC-electrochemical procedure, were significantly increased in nucleus caudatus putamen, nucleus accumbens, substantia nigra, nucleus raphe dorsalis, olivary nucleus and the cerebellum. However, dopamine or norepinephrine levels remained unaltered in these areas of the brain. In animals treated with p-chlorophenylalanine, a specific tryptophan hydroxylase inhibitor and 5-HT depletor, tacrine failed to elevate the levels of 5-HT in the brain regions, and significantly attenuated tremor response to the drug. Tacrine-induced tremor was also significantly (83%) attenuated by 5-HT(2A/2C) receptor antagonist mianserin (5 mg/kg, i.p.), but methysergide (5 mg/kg, i.v.) could block tacrine-induced tremor only by 20%. Atropine (5 mg/kg, i.p.) antagonized tacrine-induced tremor by about 53%, but a combination of atropine and mianserin completely blocked the tremor response. These results indicate that the cholinergic tremor produced by tacrine in Balb/c mice is mediated via central serotonergic mechanisms, and stimulation of 5-HT(2A/2C) receptors plays a pivotal role in this motor dysfunction.
Updating of visual space takes place in the posterior parietal cortex to guarantee spatial constancy across eye movements. However, the timing of updating with respect to saccadic eye movements remains a matter of debate. In the present study, event-related potentials (ERPs) were recorded in 15 volunteers during a saccadic double-step task to elucidate the time course of the updating process. In the experimental condition updating of visual space was required, because both saccade targets had already disappeared before the first saccade was executed. A similar task without updating requirements served as control condition. ERP analysis revealed a significantly larger slow positive wave in the retino-spatial dissonance condition compared to the control condition, starting between 150 and 200 ms after first saccade onset. Source analysis showed an asymmetry with respect to the direction of the first saccade. Whereas the source was restricted to the right PPC in trials with leftward first saccades, left and right PPC were involved in rightward trials. The results of the present study suggest that updating of visual space in a saccadic double-step task occurs not earlier than 150 ms after the onset of the first saccade. We conclude that extraretinal information about the first saccade is integrated with motor information about the second saccade in the inter-saccade interval.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common neurodegenerative disease that exhibits motor dysfunctions, such as tremor, akinesia and rigidity. In the present study, we investigated whether swim-test could be used as one of the behavioural monitoring techniques to study motor disability in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-induced parkinsonism in two mouse strains, Balb/c and C57BL/6. Mice were treated with different doses of MPTP (10, 20 and 30 mg/kg, twice, 16 h apart), and were subjected to swim-test on the third day of the first MPTP injection. MPTP-induced tremor was monitored at 30 min, and akinesia and rigidity developed were studied 3 h after the second MPTP treatment. While tremor and akinesia produced were dose-dependent and the intensity of tremor was comparable in the two strains of mice studied, the latter response in C57BL/6 was significantly lesser than that observed in Balb/c. Rigidity exhibited in Balb/c mice were dose-dependent, but not in C57BL/6. There was observed an inverse relationship between swim-score and the doses of MPTP in both the strains. MPTP caused a significant and dose-dependent reduction in striatal dopamine level in both the strains of mice, when assayed on the fourth day employing an HPLC with electrochemical detector. A significant positive correlation existed (r = 0.94 for Balb/c and r = 0.82 for C57BL/6) for the striatal dopamine-depletion and the swim-score in the MPTP-treated mice. While swim deficit and striatal dopamine loss were long lasting (till the third week) in C57BL/6, in Balb/c mice the motor deficit showed recovery by the second week. In these animals, a significant attenuation in striatal dopamine loss was observed by the third week. These results indicate that swim ability is directly proportional to striatal dopamine content, and suggest that swim-test could be used as a major technique to monitor motor dysfunction in experimental animals.

A repeating five-tone pattern was presented at several stimulus rates (200, 400, 600, and 800 ms onset-to-onset) to determine at what temporal proximity the five-tone repeating unit would be represented in memory. The mismatch negativity component of event-related brain potentials was used to index how the sounds were organized in memory when participants had no task with the sounds. Only at the 200-ms onset-to-onset pace was the five-tone sequence unitized in memory. At presentation rates of 400 ms and above, the regularity (a different frequency tone occurred every fifth tone) was not detected and mismatch negativity was elicited by these tones in the sequence. The results show that temporal proximity plays a role in unitizing successive sounds in auditory memory. These results also suggest that global relationships between successive sounds are represented at the level of auditory cortices.
Discriminating objects from their surroundings by the visual system is known as figure-ground segregation. This process entails two different subprocesses: boundary detection and subsequent surface segregation or 'filling in'. In this study, we used transcranial magnetic stimulation to test the hypothesis that temporally distinct processes in V1 and related early visual areas such as V2 or V3 are causally related to the process of figure-ground segregation. Our results indicate that correct discrimination between two visual stimuli, which relies on figure-ground segregation, requires two separate periods of information processing in the early visual cortex: one around 130-160 ms and the other around 250-280 ms.
Glass patterns are a type of moir created when a random-dot field is overlaid with a rotated, translated or dilated copy. The overall form of the moir cannot be detected using local processing mechanisms, and because of this, Glass patterns are useful probes of global form processing. Here, we use event-related potentials to show that certain global organizations (concentric structure created by rotation and radial structure produced by dilation) produce much larger brain responses than others (linear structure created by translation). The results are consistent with the existence of specialized form processing mechanisms in the extrastriate cortex.
In this study, we analyzed how intermittent individual housing with or without a running wheel influenced corticosterone levels and survival of newly proliferated cells in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus. Female Balb/c mice, in standard or enhanced housing, were divided into groups that were individually housed with or without running wheels on every second day. Intermittent individual housing without, but not with, running wheels increased survival of proliferated cells in the dentate gyrus as compared with continuous group housing in standard or enhanced conditions. Thus, changes in housing conditions on every second day can, under certain circumstances, have an impact on the survival of newly proliferated cells in the dentate gyrus.
It is known that most of drugs abused by humans preferentially stimulate dopamine transmission in the shell subdivision of the nucleus accumbens as compared to the core. The aim of the present study was to evaluate whether this applies also to intravenous 3,4-methylendioxymethamphetamine (MDMA, &quot;ecstasy&quot;) administered at doses that sustain self-administration behavior in rats. The effect of 0.32, 0.64, 1.0, 2.0 and 3.2 mg/kg i.v. of MDMA on dopamine transmission in the nucleus accumbens shell and core was studied in freely moving rats by means of dual probe microdialysis. MDMA dose-dependently stimulated dopamine transmission both in the shell and in the core but the increase in the shell was more pronounced compared to the core at doses of 0.64, 1.0 and 2.0 mg/kg. The increase of dialysate dopamine obtained after 0.32 mg/kg and after 3.2 mg/kg was not significantly different in the shell compared to the core of nucleus accumbens. This study extends to MDMA the property of other drugs of abuse to increase preferentially nucleus accumbens shell dopamine.
Recognition memory can be supported by both the assessment of the familiarity of an item and by recollection of the context in which an item was encountered. Some have hypothesized that the prefrontal cortex (PFC) disproportionately contributes to recollection, whereas an alternative view is that the PFC contributes to both recollection and familiarity. Here, we examined the effects of prefrontal lesions on recollection and familiarity. Patients with unilateral PFC lesions and age-, gender-, and education-matched controls encoded pictures of meaningful objects that were presented briefly to the left or right visual field and subsequently performed recognition tests for centrally presented objects. Laterality effects within the PFC were also assessed in relation to recollection and familiarity processes. Patients with prefrontal lesions showed impaired familiarity-based recognition, and this deficit was specific for objects encoded by the lesioned hemisphere. In addition, recollection of the context in which each item was encountered was impaired independent of the visual field of presentation in patients with left prefrontal lesions. Recollection measured by subjective reports (&quot;remember&quot;) was not impaired in either left or right frontal patients. These findings suggest that the PFC plays a critical role in recognition memory based on familiarity as well as recollection. Furthermore, these results suggest that left PFC regions are critical for source recollection.
The morphology of the human cortex varies remarkably across individuals, regardless of overall brain size. It is currently unclear whether related cortical regions covary in gray matter density, as a result of mutually trophic influences or common experience-related plasticity. We acquired a structural magnetic resonance imaging scan from 172 subjects and extracted the regional gray matter densities from 12 readily identifiable regions of interest involved in sensorimotor or higher-order cognitive functions. We then used these values to predict regional densities in the remaining areas of the cortex, using voxel-based morphometry. This revealed patterns of positive and negative covariance that provide insight into the topographical organization of multiple cortical regions. We report that the gray matter density of a region is a good predictor of the density of the homotopic region in the contralateral hemisphere, with the striking exception of primary visual cortex. Whereas some regions express patterns of regional covariance that are mirror symmetrical relative to the interhemispheric fissure, other regions express asymmetric patterns of regional covariance. Finally, patterns of covariance are remarkably consistent between males and females, with the exception of the left amygdala, which is positively associated with the left and right anterior inferior temporal cortex in males and with the right angular gyrus in females. Our study establishes that the density of different cortical regions is coordinated within an individual. The coordinated variations we report are likely to be determined by both genetic and environmental factors and may be the basis for differences in individual behavior.
P-type (CaV2.1) Ca2+ channels are a central conduit of neuronal Ca2+ entry, so their Ca2+ feedback regulation promises widespread neurobiological impact. Heterologous expression of recombinant CaV2.1 channels demonstrates that the Ca2+ sensor calmodulin can trigger Ca2+-dependent facilitation (CDF) of channel opening. This facilitation occurs when local Ca2+ influx through individual channels selectively activates the C-terminal lobe of calmodulin. In neurons, however, such calmodulin-mediated processes have yet to be detected, and CDF of native P-type current has thus far appeared different, arguably triggered by other Ca2+ sensing molecules. Here, in cerebellar Purkinje somata abundant with prototypic P-type channels, we find that the C-terminal lobe of calmodulin does produce CDF, and such facilitation augments Ca2+ entry during stimulation by repetitive action-potential and complex-spike waveforms. Beyond recapitulating key features of recombinant channels, these neurons exhibit an additional modulatory dimension: developmental upregulation of CDF during postnatal week 2. This phenomenon reflects increasing somatic expression of CaV2.1 splice variants that manifest CDF and progressive dendritic targeting of variants lacking CDF. Calmodulin-triggered facilitation is thus fundamental to native CaV2.1 and rapidly enhanced during early development.
High voltage-activated Ca2+ channels are coupled to the release of Ca2+ from intracellular stores. Here we present evidence that, in the paraventricular thalamic nucleus and other midline thalamic nuclei, activation of low voltage-activated (LVA) Ca2+ channels stimulates Ca2+-induced Ca2+ release (CICR) from intracellular stores. Voltage-clamp activation of LVA Ca2+ channels in fluo-4 AM-loaded neurons induced an initial transient increase in intracellular Ca2+ concentrations ([Ca2+]i) (mean increase, 19.4%; decay time constant, 71 ms) that reflected the entry of extracellular Ca2+. This was followed by a sustained secondary elevation in [Ca2+]i (mean increase, 4.7%; decay time constant, 7310 ms) that was attributable to CICR. Repeated activation of LVA Ca2+ channels to evoke CICR caused a progressive buildup of baseline [Ca2+]i (mean increase, 13.12 +/- 3.41%) that was reduced by depletion of intracellular Ca2+ stores with thapsigargin or caffeine. In contrast, LVA Ca2+ channel-evoked CICR was absent from ventrolateral thalamocortical relay neurons, suggesting that LVA Ca2+ channel coupling to Ca2+-dependent intracellular signaling may be a property that is unique to nonspecific and midline thalamocortical neurons.
Microglia undergo a phenotypic activation in response to fibrillar beta-amyloid (fAbeta) deposition in the brains of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients, resulting in their elaboration of inflammatory molecules. Despite the presence of abundant plaque-associated microglia in the brains of AD patients and in animal models of the disease, microglia fail to efficiently clear fAbeta deposits. However, they can be induced to do so during Abeta vaccination therapy attributable to anti-Abeta antibody stimulation of IgG receptor (FcR)-mediated phagocytic clearance of Abeta plaques. We report that proinflammatory cytokines attenuate microglial phagocytosis stimulated by fAbeta or complement receptor 3 and argue that this may, in part, underlie the accumulation of fAbeta-containing plaques within the AD brain. The proinflammatory suppression of fAbeta-elicited phagocytosis is dependent on nuclear factor kappaB activation. Significantly, the proinflammatory cytokines do not inhibit phagocytosis elicited by antibody-mediated activation of FcR, which may contribute to the efficiency of Abeta vaccination-based therapy. Importantly, the proinflammatory suppression of fAbeta phagocytosis can be relieved by the coincubation with anti-inflammatory cytokines, cyclooxygenase inhibitors, ibuprofen, or an E prostanoid receptor antagonist, suggesting that proinflammatory cytokines induce the production of prostaglandins, leading to an E prostanoid receptor-dependent inhibition of phagocytosis. These findings support anti-inflammatory therapies for the treatment of AD.
Polymorphism of tryptophan hydroxylase, the rate-limiting enzyme in the synthesis of brain serotonin (5-HT), is associated with less synthesis of brain 5-HT in DBA/2J and BALB/c than in C57BL/6J and 129/Sv mice. We selected the forced swimming test, a mouse model used to assess the antidepressant potential of drugs, and neurochemical techniques to study strain differences in the response to citalopram, a selective 5-HT reuptake inhibitor. Citalopram reduced immobility time in C57BL/6J and 129/Sv mice but had no such effect in DBA/2J and BALB/c mice. The drug reduced accumulation of 5-hydroxytryptophan (5-HTP), an indicator of 5-HT synthesis, in C57BL/6J and 129/Sv mice but much less in DBA/2J and BALB/c mice. Pretreatment with tryptophan raised 5-HTP accumulation and reinstated the antidepressant-like effect of citalopram in DBA/2J and BALB/c mice, whereas pharmacological inhibition of 5-HT synthesis prevented the effect of citalopram in C57BL/6J and 129/Sv mice. Because there were no strain differences in catecholamine synthesis, locomotor activity, and brain levels of citalopram at the end of the behavioral test, the results suggest that the failure of citalopram to reduce immobility time in DBA/2J and BALB/c mice is attributable to genotype-dependent impairment of 5-HT synthesis. Interstrain comparisons could probably be a useful strategy for understanding the mechanisms underlying the response to selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors.
Waves of epileptiform activity in neocortex have three phenomenological stages: initiation, propagation, and termination. We use a well studied model of epileptiform activity in vitro to investigate directly the hypothesis that each stage is governed by an independent mechanism within the underlying cortical circuit. Using the partially disinhibited neocortical slice preparation, activity is induced and modulated using neurotransmitter receptor antagonists and is measured using both intracellular recordings and a linear array of extracellular electrodes. We find that initiation depends on both synaptic excitation and inhibition and entails a slow process of recruitment at discrete spatial locations within cortical layer 5 but not layer 2/3. Propagation depends on synaptic excitation but not inhibition and is a fast process that involves neurons across the spatial extent of the slice and in all cortical layers. Termination is modulated by synaptic excitation and inhibition. In space, termination occurs reliably at discrete locations. In time, termination is characterized by a strong depolarizing shift (block) and recovery of neurons in all cortical layers. These results suggest that the phenomenological stages of epileptiform events correspond to distinct mechanistic stages.




Phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate is a major intracellular messenger molecule thought to be formed almost exclusively by cytosolic, wortmannin-inhibited phosphoinositide 3-kinase family members. Inositol polyphosphate multikinase was identified as an enzyme that generates a series of water-soluble inositol phosphates. We now report the robust, physiologic, and evolutionarily conserved phosphoinositide 3-kinase activity of inositol polyphosphate multikinase, which is localized to nuclei and unaffected by wortmannin. In yeast, this inositol lipid kinase activity physiologically regulates transcription.
Synaptic plasticity results in enduring changes in synaptic function. Localized protein synthesis is part of this process. This animation shows how a dynamic macromolecular structure, the RNA granule, may allow localized translation of proteins at the site of active synapses and thereby serve as a key element contributing to changes in protein production leading to synaptic plasticity. This animation would be useful in teaching a neurobiology or neuroscience course, where it could be used to illustrate mechanisms for activity-dependent protein translation, or in a biochemistry course or a molecular or cellular biology course, where it could be used to illustrate mechanisms governing regulation of protein translation.
Peripheral nerves provide essential connections between the central nervous system and muscles, autonomic structures and sensory organs. Nitric oxide (NO) participates in critical actions involving several aspects of peripheral nerve function and disease. It offers important roles in &quot;normal&quot; afferent signaling of pain through the dorsal horn of the spinal cord and in autonomic control through nitrergic innervation. NO is generated during the fundamental processes of Wallerian degeneration of peripheral nerves following injury that bear on subsequent regenerative events. Through its actions on vasa nervorum, the blood supply to nerves, NO participates in microvascular changes following injury but also has direct roles in axon and myelin breakdown and &quot;clearance&quot; prior to regeneration. During such processes, NO contributes to the development of neuropathic pain. Excessive local levels of NO during inflammation may damage axons and growth cones. Low-grade chronic rises in NO may also contribute toward peripheral nerve damage, or neuropathy in diabetes. In this review, we consider the evidence for these roles and their potential importance in disease and repair of peripheral nerves.
The effects of ethanol were evaluated in rats trained to discriminate 0.4 mg/kg of nicotine from saline under a fixed-ratio 10 schedule of food delivery. Ethanol (0.1-1 g/kg, i.p.) did not produce any nicotine-like discriminative effects and did not produce any shift in the dose-response curve for nicotine discrimination. Thus, the ability to discriminate nicotine's effects does not appear to be altered by ethanol administration. However, the high dose of 1 g/kg ethanol, given either alone or in combination with nicotine, markedly depressed food-maintained responding. This later effect was associated in some rats with an attenuation of the discriminative-stimulus effects of the training dose of nicotine. This suggests that previous reports of increased tobacco smoking following ethanol consumption in humans are connected, in some way, with an increase in motivation to consume nicotine that is produced by ethanol, rather than with a decrease in the subjective response to nicotine.
The effects of prolonged exposure to and subsequent withdrawal of the thienotriazolobenzodiazepine etizolam on gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) type A receptor gene expression and function were compared with those of the benzodiazepine lorazepam. Exposure of rat hippocampal neurons in culture to 10 microM etizolam for 5 days reduced the amounts of alpha5 and gamma2S receptor subunit mRNAs, whereas etizolam withdrawal was associated with a persistent reduction in gamma2S mRNA and an increase in alpha2 and alpha3 mRNAs. Neither chronic exposure to nor withdrawal of etizolam affected the acute modulatory effects of etizolam or lorazepam on GABA-evoked Cl- current. Treatment with 10 microM lorazepam for 5 days reduced the amounts of alpha1 and gamma2S subunit mRNAs and increased that of alpha3 mRNA, whereas lorazepam withdrawal was associated with persistence of the changes in alpha3 and gamma2S mRNAs and an increase in alpha2 and alpha4 mRNAs. Parallel changes in the abundance of alpha1 and alpha4 subunit proteins induced by chronic exposure to and withdrawal of lorazepam, but not etizolam, were detected by immunocytofluorescence analysis. Chronic lorazepam treatment resulted in a reversible reduction in the modulatory efficacy of this drug and conferred on flumazenil the ability to potentiate GABA-evoked Cl- current. The anticonvulsant action of etizolam was not altered in mice chronically treated with this drug, whereas lorazepam-treated animals became tolerant to the acute anticonvulsant effect of this benzodiazepine. These data suggest that etizolam is endowed with a reduced liability to induce tolerance and dependence compared with classical benzodiazepines.
This study was undertaken to examine the effects of subsequent administration of antipsychotic drugs (clozapine and haloperidol) on cognitive deficits in mice after repeated administration of phencyclidine (PCP). In the novel object recognition test, repeated administration of PCP (10 mg/kg) significantly decreased exploratory preference in the retention test session but not in the training test session. PCP-induced deficits were significantly improved by subsequent subchronic (2 weeks) administration of clozapine (5 mg/kg), but not haloperidol (0.1 mg/kg). These findings suggest that PCP-induced cognitive deficits using the novel object recognition test may be a potential animal model of atypical antipsychotic activity.
The copulatory neuromuscular system of green anoles is sexually dimorphic and differentiates during embryonic development, although details of the process were unknown. In Experiment 1, we determined the time course of normal ontogeny. Both male and female embryos possessed bilateral copulatory organs (hemipenes) and associated muscles until incubation day 13; the structures completely regressed in female embryos by incubation day 19 (total incubation 34 days). In Experiment 2, we treated eggs with testosterone, dihydrotestosterone, estradiol, or vehicle on both incubation days 10 and 13 to determine whether these steroid hormones mediate sexual differentiation. These time points fall between gonadal differentiation, which was determined in Experiment 1 to complete before day 10, and regression of the peripheral copulatory system in females. Tissue was collected on the day of hatching. Gonads were classified as testes or ovaries; presence versus absence of hemipenes and muscles, and the number and size of copulatory motoneurons were determined. Copulatory system morphology of vehicle-treated animals matched their gonadal sex. Hemipenes and muscles were absent in estradiol-treated animals, and androgens rescued the hemipenes and muscles in most females. Both testosterone and dihydrotestosterone treatment also caused hypertrophy of the hemipenes, which were everted in animals treated with these steroids. Copulatory motoneurons, assessed on the day of hatching in both experiments, were not dimorphic in size or number. Steroid treatment significantly increased motoneuron size and number overall, but no significant differences were detected in pairwise comparisons. These data demonstrate that differentiation of peripheral copulatory neuromuscular structures occurs during embryonic development and is influenced by gonadal steroids (regression by estradiol and enhancement by androgens), but associated motoneurons do not differentiate until later in life.
Vesicular monoamine transporters (VMATs) mediate the transport of dopamine (DA), serotonin (5HT), and other monoamines into secretory vesicles. The regulation of mammalian VMAT and the related vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT) has been proposed to involve membrane trafficking, but the mechanisms remain unclear. To facilitate a genetic analysis of vesicular transporter function and regulation, we have cloned the Drosophila homolog of the vesicular monoamine transporter (dVMAT). We identify two mRNA splice variants (DVMAT-A and B) that differ at their C-terminus, the domain responsible for endocytosis of mammalian VMAT and VAChT. DVMAT-A contains trafficking motifs conserved in mammals but not C. elegans, and internalization assays indicate that the DVMAT-A C-terminus is involved in endocytosis. DVMAT-B contains a divergent C-terminal domain and is less efficiently internalized from the cell surface. Using in vitro transport assays, we show that DVMAT-A recognizes DA, 5HT, octopamine, tyramine, and histamine as substrates, and similar to mammalian VMAT homologs, is inhibited by the drug reserpine and the environmental toxins 2,2,4,5,6-pentachlorobiphenyl and heptachlor. We have developed a specific antiserum to DVMAT-A, and find that it localizes to dopaminergic and serotonergic neurons as well as octopaminergic, type II terminals at the neuromuscular junction. Surprisingly, DVMAT-A is co-expressed at type II terminals with the Drosophila vesicular glutamate transporter. Our data suggest that DVMAT-A functions as a vesicular transporter for DA, 5HT, and octopamine in vivo, and will provide a powerful invertebrate model for the study of transporter trafficking and regulation.
One of the critical emerging problems in modern pathobiology is how cells govern the decision to live or die, and the cost of making such a decision. Nowhere are these questions more poignant than in deciphering the tissue-specific responses to DNA damage. Mutations in DNA repair enzymes, malfunctions in cell cycle regulation, and genetic instability are associated with most somatic cancers. However, in many hereditary diseases arising from mutations in DNA repair proteins, the same dominant mutations that cause cancer in dividing cells are often associated with cell death in terminally differentiated neurons. Context dependent differences in the response to DNA damage are used to make fundamental choices as to cell fate, and are likely to shed light on the mechanisms underlying human disease.
Cluster headache is a stereotyped primary pain syndrome characterised by strictly unilateral severe pain, localised in or around the eye and accompanied by ipsilateral autonomic features. The syndrome is characterised by the circadian rhythmicity of the short-lived attacks, and the regular recurrence of headache bouts, which are interspersed by periods of complete remission in most individuals. Headaches often start about 1-2 h after falling asleep or in the early morning, and show seasonal variation, suggesting that the hypothalamus has a role in the illness. Consequently, the vascular theory has been superseded by recognition that neurovascular factors are more important. The increased familial risk suggests that cluster headache has a genetic component in some families. Neuroimaging has broadened our pathophysiological view and has led to successful treatment by deep brain stimulation of the hypothalamus. Although most patients can be treated effectively, some do not respond to therapy. Fortunately, time to diagnosis of cluster headache has improved. This is probably the result of a better understanding of the pathophysiology in combination with efficient treatment strategies, leading to a broader acceptance of the syndrome by doctors.

A number of G protein-coupled receptors have been shown to stimulate tuberin phosphorylation, which is critical for the regulation of translation and is apparently involved in neurotrophin-promoted survival of serum-deprived cells. Here, in HEK 293 cells transiently expressing the delta-, kappa-, or mu-opioid receptors, Western blotting analysis using a phosphospecific anti-tuberin antibody revealed a dose- and time-dependent increase in tuberin phosphorylation upon stimulation by specific opioid agonists. In NG108-15, PC12, and SH-SY5Y cells that endogenously express delta-, kappa-, and mu-opioid receptors, respectively, specific opioid agonists also stimulated tuberin phosphorylation in a dose- and time-dependent manner. Pretreatment of cells with pertussis toxin or PI3K inhibitor wortmannin blocked the opioid-stimulated tuberin phosphorylation, implicating the possible involvement of the G(i/o) proteins and the phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase/Akt pathway in opioid-induced tuberin phosphorylation. This is the first study that demonstrates the regulatory role of opioid receptors on tuberin.
Bovine adrenocortical cells express bTREK-1 K+ channels that set the resting membrane potential (V(m)) and couple angiotensin II (AngII) and adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) receptors to membrane depolarization and corticosteroid secretion. In this study, it was discovered that AngII inhibits bTREK-1 by separate Ca2+- and ATP hydrolysis-dependent signaling pathways. When whole cell patch clamp recordings were made with pipette solutions that support activation of both Ca2+- and ATP-dependent pathways, AngII was significantly more potent and effective at inhibiting bTREK-1 and depolarizing adrenal zona fasciculata cells, than when either pathway is activated separately. External ATP also inhibited bTREK-1 through these two pathways, but ACTH displayed no Ca2+-dependent inhibition. AngII-mediated inhibition of bTREK-1 through the novel Ca2+-dependent pathway was blocked by the AT1 receptor antagonist losartan, or by including guanosine-5'-O-(2-thiodiphosphate) in the pipette solution. The Ca2+-dependent inhibition of bTREK-1 by AngII was blunted in the absence of external Ca2+ or by including the phospholipase C antagonist U73122, the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor antagonist 2-amino-ethoxydiphenyl borate, or a calmodulin inhibitory peptide in the pipette solution. The activity of unitary bTREK-1 channels in inside-out patches from adrenal zona fasciculata cells was inhibited by application of Ca2+ (5 or 10 microM) to the cytoplasmic membrane surface. The Ca2+ ionophore ionomycin also inhibited bTREK-1 currents through channels expressed in CHO-K1 cells. These results demonstrate that AngII and selected paracrine factors that act through phospholipase C inhibit bTREK-1 in adrenocortical cells through simultaneous activation of separate Ca2+- and ATP hydrolysis-dependent signaling pathways, providing for efficient membrane depolarization. The novel Ca2+-dependent pathway is distinctive in its lack of ATP dependence, and is clearly different from the calmodulin kinase-dependent mechanism by which AngII modulates T-type Ca2+ channels in these cells.
Cognitive and neuroscience studies indicate that attentional operations are impaired in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Our goal was to define the anatomical areas of activation associated with visual attention processing and to define deficits or changes that may occur in AD patients compared with control group. Thirteen AD patients and 13 age- and education-matched normal controls were tested in two visual search tasks (one was a conjunction task, where feature binding is required. The other was a subset task, where group stimuli is needed without feature binding) using fMRI techniques. After stereotactical normalization, voxel-by-voxel t statistics was used to compare activated brain areas between patients and control subjects. Our findings suggest that both search tasks are controlled by partially overlapping cerebral networks, including parietal, frontal and occipital-temporal cortical regions and primary visual cortex. The AD patient group showed less activation in both parietal lobes and the left frontal regions, while increased activation was found in the right frontal lobes and the right occipito-temporal cortical regions with the conjunction task. In the subset task, decreased activation in AD patients was seen in the left parietal lobe and bilateral frontal lobes, while increased activation was seen in both medial temporal lobes. In addition, for the comparison between tasks, The difference is very small for AD patients. Control group showed a higher amplitude in the right prefrontal region, temporal cortical regions and parietal lobe. These results indicate that attention deficits in AD patients may be attributed to both binding problem and grouping inefficiency.

We describe a patient with a brainstem cavernoma who was dependent on hypoxic respiratory drive initially. After excision of the lesion, the patient developed severe hypoventilation unresponsive to both hypoxia and hypercapnia. Weaning from mechanical ventilation could be achieved through central respiratory stimulation by acetazolamide. Problems associated with respiratory management of central hypoventilation due to a brainstem lesion are described.


Selective cleavage of the Glu395-Ser396 bond of brevican, one of the major proteoglycans in adult brain tissues, is thought to be important for glioma cell invasion. Our previous biochemical study demonstrated that ADAMTS-4, a member of the ADAMTS (a disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motifs) family, has such an activity. In the present study, we examined brevican-degrading activities of ADAMTS-1, -4 and -5 at the cellular level, and their expression and localization in human glioma tissues. In 293T transfectants expressing ADAMTS-4 or ADAMTS-5, brevican was cleaved into two major fragments in an identical pattern, but no such degradation was observed with ADAMTS-1 transfectants. When the expression levels of these ADAMTS species were examined by real-time quantitative PCR, only ADAMTS-5 was found to be overexpressed in glioblastoma tissues compared to control normal brain tissues (P &lt;0.05). In situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry demonstrated that ADAMTS-5 is expressed predominantly in glioblastoma cells. Forced expression of ADAMTS-5 in glioma cell lines stimulated cell invasion. These results demonstrate for the first time that ADAMTS-5 is capable of degrading brevican and is overexpressed in glioblastoma cells, and suggest that ADAMTS-5 may play a role in glioma cell invasion through the cleavage of brevican.
Aquaporin 4 (AQP4), one of the water channel proteins on the plasma membrane of astrocytes, is up-regulated in various conditions with brain edema. Possible participation of AQP4 in various inflammatory lesions, more or less associated with edema, was examined in human autopsied brains. Immunohistochemistry was used to investigate AQP4 expression in autopsied brains with multiple sclerosis (MS), human immunodeficiency virus encephalitis (HIVE) or progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML). The cellular localization of AQP4 and its relation to inflammatory lesions were then examined with double-labeling immunohistochemistry. AQP4 immunoreactivity (IR) was restricted to astrocytes and localized to their entire processes, including their endfeet facing the abluminal surface of capillaries. In MS brains, AQP4-positive astrocytes were more abundant at the periphery of plaques than in their center, as seen in ischemic foci. Quantification of fluorescent signal demonstrated that AQP4 IR was greatly increased around plaques relative to that in unaffected area. Although the white matter was severely involved in HIVE and PML, AQP4-positive astrocytes were rare in the white matter even around perivascular active inflammatory foci. They were abundant in the gray matter and most prominent in the boundary between the gray and white matter, without apparent relation to inflammatory foci. Some bizarre astrocytes in PML exhibited AQP4 IR. Up-regulation of AQP4 was consistently found in astrocytes in various inflammatory lesions. However, the distribution of AQP4-positve astrocytes differed markedly according to disease and was not necessarily related to brain edema, indicating that functions and regulation of AQP4 in human brains are multiple.

Lewy bodies (LBs) of idiopathic Parkinson's disease and glial cytoplasmic inclusions (GCIs) of multiple system atrophy are pathological deposits both composed of phosphorylated alpha-synuclein woven into different filaments. Although both LBs and GCIs are considered to be hallmarks for each independent synucleinopathy, until now they could not be clearly distinguished on the basis of their biochemical or immunohistochemical features. We have examined possible differences in their argyrophilic features and their relation to synuclein-like or ubiquitin-like immunoreactivity (IR). Pairs of mirror sections from different brain areas were triple-fluorolabeled with an anti-alpha-synuclein antibody, an anti-ubiquitin antibody and thiazin red (TR), a fluorochrome that labels fibrillary structures such as Lewy bodies or neurofibrillary tangles. One of the paired sections was subsequently stained using the Campbell-Switzer method (CS), and the other by the Gallyas-Braak method (GB). By comparing of the same microscopic field on the paired fluorolabeled sections, subsequently silver-stained with either CS or GB, five different profiles of each structure could be determined: alpha-synuclein-like IR, ubiquitin-like IR, affinity to TR, argyrophilia with CS or GB. GCIs exhibited argyrophilia with both CS and GB but lacked affinity to TR. In contrast, LBs exhibited argyrophilia with CS but not with GB and some affinity to TR. These disease-specific profiles of argyrophilia were consistent, and were not influenced by areas or cases examined. Although immunohistochemical features of LBs and GCIs were similar in exhibiting IR for alpha-synuclein and ubiquitin, the contrast in their argyrophilic profiles may indicate possible differences in the molecular composition or conformation of alpha-synuclein. Even though these empirical differences still remain to be explained, awareness of this clear distinction is potentially of diagnostic and pathological relevance.

Little is known about clinicians' information sources for new treatments or ways to improve dissemination of that information. We analyzed 163 clinicians' responses to a checklist of where and how frequently they obtain information on new treatment approaches. They reported at least yearly use of a median of four cosmopolite categories (e.g., journals or books, Internet) and a median of three local categories (e.g., co-workers, personal experience) with interpersonal contact with co-workers (89%) and seminars/conferences (86%) being the most frequently endorsed responses for at least yearly use. In response to the hypothetical scenario of receiving monthly e-mail summaries of journal articles, 59% of the clinicians rated the strategy as &quot;very helpful&quot;. If continuing education credits were offered, more clinicians (from 50-80%) would read the relevant articles. Information dissemination may improve with expanded Internet access at programs and short e-mailed summaries carrying links to full articles coupled with the incentive of earning continuing education credits.



OSET is the international Organisation of Societies for Electrophysiological Technology, a federation of professional societies from around the world. Just as ASET grew out of the national physicians' society, OSET grew out of an international physicians' consortium. Both ASET and OSET are independent groups that address the many issues specific to technologists, from entry-level education to standards of practice and legal conditions of practice. The present &quot;members&quot; of OSET are the technologist societies of Australia, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, the U.K., and the U.S.; the individual members of those societies are members of OSET by extension. OSET holds a week-long Congress every four years, hosted by one of the member societies. Technologists from all over the world gather to share information via platform papers and posters. Just as ASET meetings provide an opportunity for technologists to learn from each other, formally and informally, so the OSET Congresses extend that sharing beyond national borders. Between Congresses, OSET work is done by committees. Some of the published results of this committee work are statements of minimal and optimal standards of training in EEG and evoked potentials, guidelines for digital EEG, guidelines for infection control, and guidelines for intraoperative monitoring. The last two Congresses have had sessions on education in the OSET countries; present committee work is continuing to study this issue to develop a truly international statement of competencies, i.e., what technologists must be able to do to perform electrophysiologic studies anywhere in the world.
To provide a definitive linkage map for multiple sclerosis, we have genotyped the Illumina BeadArray linkage mapping panel (version 4) in a data set of 730 multiplex families of Northern European descent. After the application of stringent quality thresholds, data from 4,506 markers in 2,692 individuals were included in the analysis. Multipoint nonparametric linkage analysis revealed highly significant linkage in the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) on chromosome 6p21 (maximum LOD score [MLS] 11.66) and suggestive linkage on chromosomes 17q23 (MLS 2.45) and 5q33 (MLS 2.18). This set of markers achieved a mean information extraction of 79.3% across the genome, with a Mendelian inconsistency rate of only 0.002%. Stratification based on carriage of the multiple sclerosis-associated DRB1*1501 allele failed to identify any other region of linkage with genomewide significance. However, ordered-subset analysis suggested that there may be an additional locus on chromosome 19p13 that acts independent of the main MHC locus. These data illustrate the substantial increase in power that can be achieved with use of the latest tools emerging from the Human Genome Project and indicate that future attempts to systematically identify susceptibility genes for multiple sclerosis will have to involve large sample sizes and an association-based methodology.
Mutations in the catalytic subunit of the mitochondrial DNA polymerase gamma (POLG) have been found to be an important cause of neurological disease. Recently, we and collaborators reported a new neurodegenerative disorder with autosomal recessive ataxia in four patients homozygous for two amino acid changes in POLG: W748S in cis with E1143G. Here, we studied the frequency of this allele and found it to be among the most common genetic causes of inherited ataxia in Finland. We identified 27 patients with mitochondrial recessive ataxia syndrome (MIRAS) from 15 Finnish families, with a carrier frequency in the general population of 1 : 125. Since the mutation pair W748S+E1143G has also been described in European patients, we examined the haplotypes of 13 non-Finnish, European patients with the W748S mutation. Haplotype analysis revealed that all the chromosomes carrying these two changes, in patients from Finland, Norway, the United Kingdom, and Belgium, originate from a common ancient founder. In Finland and Norway, long, common, northern haplotypes, outside the core haplotype, could be identified. Despite having identical homozygous mutations, the Finnish patients with this adult- or juvenile-onset disease had surprisingly heterogeneous phenotypes, albeit with a characteristic set of features, including ataxia, peripheral neuropathy, dysarthria, mild cognitive impairment, involuntary movements, psychiatric symptoms, and epileptic seizures. The high carrier frequency in Finland, the high number of patients in Norway, and the ancient European founder chromosome indicate that this newly identified ataxia should be considered in the first-line differential diagnosis of progressive ataxia syndromes.

In every state across America, Medicaid programs are under serious budgetary pressure. The need to contain costs has led to various forms of restriction in the coverage for drug therapy, including psychiatric pharmacotherapy. Compared with conventional antipsychotic drugs, the atypical agents have higher acquisition costs but offer greater tolerability. Thus, the atypicals are widely accepted as first-line therapy for patients with schizophrenia, and they are also now being recognized for their efficacy in treating bipolar disorder. Nevertheless, the atypicals carry their own characteristic adverse effects, of which weight gain is among the most distressing, with the potential to interfere with compliance to treatment. Treatment compliance is crucial in terms of clinical outcome as well as cost containment, as inadequate compliance is clearly associated with a higher risk of relapse requiring costly rehospitalization. Therefore, antipsychotic therapy that is individually tailored to the patient's needs and thereby improves compliance may be more cost effective than restrictive drug coverage policies based only on acquisition costs. Conversely, individualization of pharmacotherapy is not feasible if some or all of the atypical antipsychotics are excluded from coverage.


The cellular mechanism for Cl(-) and K(+) secretion in the colonic epithelium requires K(+) channels in the basolateral and apical membranes. Colonic mucosa from guinea pig and rat were fixed, sectioned, and then probed with antibodies to the K(+) channel proteins K(V)LQT1 (Kcnq1) and minK-related peptide 2 (MiRP2, Kcne3). Immunofluorescence labeling for Kcnq1 was most prominent in the lateral membrane of crypt cells in rat colon. The guinea pig distal colon had distinct lateral membrane immunoreactivity for Kcnq1 in crypt and surface cells. In addition, Kcne3, an auxiliary subunit for Kcnq1, was detected in the lateral membrane of crypt and surface cells in guinea pig distal colon. Transepithelial short-circuit current (I(sc)) and transepithelial conductance (G(t)) were measured for colonic mucosa during secretory activation by epinephrine (EPI), prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)), and carbachol (CCh). HMR1556 (10 microM), an inhibitor of Kcnq1 channels (Gerlach U, Brendel J, Lang HJ, Paulus EF, Weidmann K, Brggemann A, Busch A, Suessbrich H, Bleich M, and Greger R. J Med Chem 44: 3831-3837, 2001), partially (approximately 50%) inhibited Cl(-) secretory I(sc) and G(t) activated by PGE(2) and CCh in rat colon with an IC(50) of 55 nM, but in guinea pig distal colon Cl(-) secretory I(sc) and G(t) were unaltered. EPI-activated K(+)-secretory I(sc) and G(t) also were essentially unaltered by HMR1556 in both rat and guinea pig colon. Although immunofluorescence labeling with a Kcnq1 antibody supported the basolateral membrane presence in colonic epithelium of the guinea pig as well as the rat, the Kcnq1 K(+) channel is not an essential component for producing Cl(-) secretion. Other K(+) channels present in the basolateral membrane presumably must also contribute directly to the K(+) conductance necessary for K(+) exit during activation of Cl(-) secretion in the colonic mucosa.
Lowered extracellular pH in a variety of tissues is associated with increased tissue destruction and initiation of inflammatory processes. Although the acid-sensing receptors described previously are ion channels, we describe a G protein-coupled proton-sensitive receptor that stimulates Ca(2+) release from intracellular stores in a tumor-derived synoviocyte cell line (SW982) and in primary cultures of human synovial cells from patients with inflammatory arthropathies. We established a link between proton-dependent receptor activation and intracellular Ca(2+) mobilization by demonstrating 1) dependence on the integrity of the intracellular Ca(2+) store, 2) independence from extracellular Ca(2+), and 3) proton-induced production of inositol phosphate and 4) by abolishing the effect with GTPase inhibitors. We propose that this G protein-coupled acid-sensing receptor linked to intracellular Ca(2+) mobilization in synoviocytes can contribute to downstream inflammatory and cellular proliferative processes in synovial fibroblasts. The acid-sensing receptor has distinct characteristics as a metabotropic G protein-coupled receptor on human synoviocytes in this emerging new class of receptors.
Surface sensory enteroendocrine cells are established mucosal taste cells that monitor luminal contents and provide an important link in transfer of information from gut epithelium to the central nervous system. Recent studies now show that these cells can also mediate efferent signaling from the brain to the gut. Centrally elicited stimulation of vagal and sympathetic pathways induces release of melatonin, which acts at MT2 receptors to increase mucosal electrolyte secretion. Psychological factors as well mucosal endocrine cell hyperplasia are implicated in functional intestinal disorders. Central nervous influence on the release of transmitters from gut endocrine cells offers an exciting area of future gastrointestinal research with a clinical relevance.
We compared the response to hypercapnia (10%) in neurons and astrocytes among a distinct area of the retrotrapezoid nucleus (RTN), the mediocaudal RTN (mcRTN), and more intermediate and rostral RTN areas (irRTN) in medullary brain slices from neonatal rats. Hypercapnic acidosis (HA) caused pH(o) to decline from 7.45 to 7.15 and a maintained intracellular acidification of 0.15 +/- 0.02 pH unit in 90% of neurons from both areas (n = 16). HA excited 44% of mcRTN (7/16) and 38% of irRTN neurons (6/16), increasing firing rate by 167 +/- 75% (chemosensitivity index, CI, 256 +/- 72%) and 310 +/- 93% (CI 292 +/- 50%), respectively. These responses did not vary throughout neonatal development. We compared the responses of mcRTN neurons to HA (decreased pH(i) and pH(o)) and isohydric hypercapnia (IH; decreased pH(i) with constant pH(o)). Neurons excited by HA (firing rate increased 156 +/- 46%; n = 5) were similarly excited by IH (firing rate increased 167 +/- 38%; n = 5). In astrocytes from both RTN areas, HA caused a maintained intracellular acidification of 0.17 +/- 0.02 pH unit (n = 6) and a depolarization of 5 +/- 1 mV (n = 12). In summary, many neurons (42%) from the RTN are highly responsive (CI 248%) to HA; this may reflect both synaptically driven and intrinsic mechanisms of CO(2) sensitivity. Changes of pH(i) are more significant than changes of pH(o) in chemosensory signaling in RTN neurons. Finally, the lack of pH(i) regulation in response to HA suggests that astrocytes do not enhance extracellular acidification during hypercapnia in the RTN.
Aging is characterized by renal functional and structural abnormalities resembling those observed in diabetes. These changes have been related to the progressive accumulation of advanced glycation end-products (AGEs) and cumulative oxidative stress occurring in both conditions. We previously reported that galectin-3 ablation is associated with increased susceptibility to diabetes- and AGE-induced glomerulopathy, thus indicating a protective role of galectin-3 as an AGE receptor. To investigate the role of the AGE/AGE receptor pathway in the pathogenesis of age-related renal disease, we evaluated the development of glomerular lesions in aging galectin-3 knockout (KO) vs. wild-type (WT) mice and their relation to the increased AGE levels and oxidative stress characterizing the aging process. KO mice showed significantly more pronounced age-dependent increases in proteinuria, albuminuria, glomerular sclerosis, and glomerular and mesangial areas, starting at 18 mo, as well as renal extracellular matrix mRNA and protein expression, starting at 12 mo vs. age-matched WT mice. Circulating and renal AGEs, plasma isoprostane 8-epi-PGF2alpha levels, glomerular content of the glycoxidation and lipoxidation products N(epsilon)-carboxymethyllysine and 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal, and renal nuclear factor-kappaB activity also increased more markedly with age in KO than WT mice. AGE levels correlated significantly with renal functional and structural parameters. These data indicate that aging galectin-3 KO mice develop more pronounced changes in renal function and structure than coeval WT mice, in parallel with a more marked degree of AGE accumulation, oxidative stress, and associated low-grade inflammation, thus supporting the concept that the AGE/AGE receptor pathway is implicated in age-related renal disease.



We report on a 28-year-old white woman with chronic psychotic-affective illness who abruptly stopped her decade-long habit of heavy daily cigarette smoking while maintained on clozapine at 450 mg/d. Within several days, she developed dry mouth, muscle spasms, dizziness, and blurred vision with dilated and sluggish pupils, with worsening sedation and confusion. Her combined serum concentration of clozapine + norclozapine was 2.5 microg/mL, compared with levels of about 600 ng/mL at daily doses of 350 mg at other times while smoking. Reducing the dose of clozapine led to rapid alleviation of these symptoms. Additional experience with and without smoking in this case further documented the effect of smoking to decrease circulating levels of clozapine. These observations add to the conclusion that cigarette smoke can increase clearance of many drugs, calling for special caution during treatment with potentially toxic substances and dose reduction in anticipation of smoking cessation.


This article reviews the various treatments currently available for obstructive sleep apnea and discusses some newer and more controversial therapies. Decisions regarding the best treatment should be aimed at relieving the unique levels of obstruction in each patient. Increased controlled outcome trials will be needed to assess the success of each therapy in certain subpopulations in comparison with CPAP. As these data become available, the roles of each therapy will become clearer in treating this major health problem.


A serine protease activated protein C has been shown to be a powerful neuroprotectant in stressed neurons and in hypoxic brain endothelium. In a clinically relevant model of embolic stroke in rodents, we now show that administration of activated protein C alone or in combination with tissue plasminogen activator, or both, 4 hours after embolic stroke improves the functional outcome and reduces brain infarction within 7 days of stroke. In contrast, tissue plasminogen activator alone was not protective. Thus, activated protein C may be useful as a new stand-alone therapy for clinical stroke and to extend the time window of thrombolytic therapy.
A 78-year-old woman suffered a stroke inside a magnetic resonance scanner while being imaged because of a brief transient ischemic attack 2 hours earlier. Diffusion-weighted images obtained 11 minutes after stroke showed tissue injury not found on initial images. The data show early, abrupt diffusion changes in hypoperfused tissue, adding to our understanding of the progression of microstructural abnormalities in the hyperacute phase of stroke.
Over the past 5 years, a succession of recommendations or guidelines on the acute management of patients with a head injury have been published. These documents reflect developments in imaging technology, the benefits of specialist neurosurgical care and the need for rehabilitation and follow-up. To a large extent, improvements to the shortcomings of current clinical management will be dependent on the provision of adequate resources, in particular at neuroscience centres. This paper states the present stance of The Royal College of Surgeons of England in respect of key issues addressed in the above publications and reviewed below.
It is now understood that the mechanisms leading to neuronal cell death after cerebral ischemia are highly complex. A well established fact in this field is that neurons continue to die over days and months after ischemia, and that reperfusion following cerebral ischemia contributes substantially to ischemic injury. It is now well accepted that central to ischemic/reperfusion-induced injury is what occurs to mitochondria hours to days following the ischemic insult. For many years, it has been established that reactive oxygen species (ROS) and reactive nitrogen species (RNS) promote lipid, protein, and DNA oxidation that affects normal cell physiology and eventually leads to neuronal demise. In addition to oxidation of neuronal molecules by ROS and RNS, a novel pathway for molecular modifications has risen from the concept that ROS can activate specific signal transduction pathways that, depending on the insult degree, can lead to either normal plasticity or pathology. Two examples of these pathways could explain why lethal ischemic insults lead to the translocation of protein kinase Cdelta (deltaPKC), which plays a role in apoptosis after cerebral ischemia, or why sublethal ischemic insults, such as in ischemic preconditioning, lead to the translocation of epsilonPKC, which plays a pivotal role in neuroprotection. A better understanding of the mechanisms by which ROS and/or RNS modulate key protein kinases that are involved in signaling pathways that lead to cell death and survival after cerebral ischemia will help devise novel therapeutic strategies.



Major advancements have been achieved in our ability to diagnose multiple sclerosis (MS) and to commence treatment intervention with agents that can favorably affect the disease course. Although MS exacerbations and the emergence of disability constitute the more conspicuous aspects of the disease process, evidence has confirmed that most of the disease occurs on a constitutive and occult basis. Disease-modifying therapies appear to be modest in the magnitude of their treatment effects, particularly in the progressive stage of the disease. Therapeutic strategies currently used for MS primarily target the inflammatory cascade. Several potential mechanisms appear to be involved in the progression of MS. Characterizing these mechanisms will result in a better understanding of the various forms of the disorder and how to effectively treat its clinical manifestations. It is our objective within this 2-part series on progression in MS to offer both evidence-based observations and hypothesis-driven expert perspectives on what constitutes the cause of progression in MS. We have chosen areas of inquiry that appear to have been most productive in helping us to better conceptualize the landscape of what MS looks like pathologically, immunologically, neuroscientifically, radiographically, and genetically. We have attempted to advance hypotheses focused on a deeper understanding of what contributes to the progression of this illness and to illustrate new technical capabilities that are catalyzing novel research initiatives targeted at achieving a more complete understanding of progression in MS.


Approximately 84% of all stroke patients with hemiplegia will experience shoulder injury and pain. The importance of maintaining proper posture while positioning and transferring a stroke patient is key to decreasing risk for shoulder injury. Shoulder subluxation injury post-stroke is a consequence of sustained hemiplegia and spasticity. Current research evidence suggests that using therapies such as gentle range of motion and functional electrical stimulation may reduce and prevent shoulder subluxation and hemiplegic shoulder pain. However, physiotherapists are currently the only professionals who can implement such therapies. Considering that stroke care provided by neuroscience nurses includes transferring, positioning and assisting in activities of daily living, it is clear that nurses are an important part of the therapy process. Therefore, the question is: &quot;What is the role of the neuroscience nurse in the reduction and prevention of shoulder pain post-stroke?&quot; The purposes of this paper are to i) discuss the causes of shoulder subluxation and related pain post-stroke, ii) review current best practice in prevention and treatment of shoulder subluxation, and iii) explore ways in which the acute neuroscience nurse can prevent or reduce shoulder subluxation in the hemiplegic stroke patient.
Mary Glover was a Head Nurse at St. Paul's Hospital in Vancouver. She was killed in a plane crash more than 25 years ago. Yet, through this neuroscience nurse's passion for her specialty, we share in her legacy through the annual Mary Glover Lecture, which was established by her parents after her death. The first Mary Glover Lecturer was Pamela Mitchell, a well-known neuroscience nurse from the School of Nursing at the University of Washington. She is leaving a multifaceted legacy through her research on intracranial pressure and quality of care as well as her books and her mentorship. Jessie Young has left a legacy as the founder and first president of the Canadian Association of Neuroscience Nurses (CANN). CANN is leaving a legacy with many firsts among Canadian nursing specialty organizations. Leaving a legacy is not just about donating money or writing a famous book. For most of us, our legacy comes in the little everyday things of life. Ask yourself, what is the legacy that you are leaving as a neuroscience nurse and as an individual?
Goal-directed behavior can be characterized as a dynamic link between a sensory stimulus and a motor act. Neural correlates of many of the intermediate events of goal-directed behavior are found in the posterior parietal cortex. Although the parietal cortex's role in guiding visual behaviors has received considerable attention, relatively little is known about its role in mediating auditory behaviors. Here, the authors review recent studies that have focused on how neurons in the lateral intraparietal area (area LIP) differentially process auditory and visual stimuli. These studies suggest that area LIP contains a modality-dependent representation that is highly dependent on behavioral context.
The notoriously inconsistent effects of cannabinoids on anxiety-like behaviour may be explained by recent research on CB1 receptor knockout (CB1-KO) mice suggesting that cannabinoids exert bidirectional effects via the CB1 receptor (anxiolysis) and a novel rimonabant-sensitive neuronal cannabinoid receptor (anxiogenesis). This hypothesis is supported by the anxiogenic-like profile of AM-251, an analogue of rimonabant that is a potent and selective CB1 receptor antagonist but which, unlike rimonabant, has no activity at the novel receptor. As we have previously shown that rimonabant reduces anxiety-like behaviour in test-experienced animals only, the current study assessed the effects of AM-251 (1.5-3.0 mg/kg) in male Swiss-Webster mice that were either plus-maze-nave or had been exposed undrugged to the apparatus 24 h prior to testing. Results confirmed that prior maze experience per se significantly increases behavioural indices of anxiety without altering measures of general activity. In maze-nave mice, the lower dose of AM-251 (1.5 mg/kg) significantly reduced % open-arm time and increased grooming while the higher dose (3.0 mg/kg) additionally reduced open-arm entries and total head-dipping, and increased closed-arm returns. These anxiogenic-like effects were observed in the absence of significant changes in general activity levels. Although AM-251 had a very similar profile in maze-experienced animals, significant drug effects on open-arm avoidance measures were precluded by experientially-induced changes in behavioural baselines (i.e. 'ceiling' effects). Nevertheless, AM-251 again significantly reduced total head-dipping and increased grooming (3.0 mg/kg) and, unlike effects in nave animals, both doses markedly reduced time spent on the centre platform and increased time spent in the enclosed arms. Against a baseline of almost total open-arm avoidance, the pattern of behavioural change in maze-experienced mice would also be consistent with an anxiogenic-like action of AM-251. Data are discussed in relation to previous findings with rimonabant, the putative existence of a novel non-CB1 neuronal cannabinoid receptor and, more generally, the behavioural pharmacology of plus-maze 'trial 2'.
With advances in basic and clinical neuroscience, many gaps have appeared in the traditional monoamine theory of depression that have led to reformulation of the hypotheses concerning the neurobiology of depression. The more recent hypotheses suggest that melancholic depression is characterized by central glucocorticoid resistance that results in hypercortisolemia, which in turn leads to down-regulation of neurotrophins and subsequent neurodegeneration. Examining the neurobiology of depression from this perspective suggests that the endocannabinoid system may play a role in the etiology of melancholic depression. Specifically, pharmacological and genetic blockade of the cannabinoid CB1 receptor induces a phenotypic state that is analogous to melancholic depression, including symptoms such as reduced food intake, heightened anxiety, increased arousal and wakefulness, deficits in extinction of aversive memories and supersensitivity to stress. These similarities between melancholic depression and an endocannabinoid deficiency become more interesting in light of recent findings that endocannabinoid activity is down-regulated by chronic stress and possibly increased by some antidepressant regimens. We propose that an endocannabinoid deficiency may underlie some of the symptoms of melancholic depression, and that enhancement of this system may ultimately be a novel form of pharmacotherapy for treatment-resistant depression.
Despite the widespread presence of clinical anesthesiology in medical practice, the mechanism by which diverse inhalational agents result in the state of general anesthesia remains unknown. Over recent decades, our understanding of general anesthetic mechanisms has evolved dramatically from early unitary hypotheses, largely due to the development and influence of a myriad of scientific disciplines ranging from molecular biology to cognitive neuroscience. These discoveries have led to a renaissance of investigation into the mechanisms of general anesthetics and have generated both novel answers and questions. In this chapter, we review the major hypotheses of general anesthetic mechanisms of action and present an expanded overview of current investigation into those mechanisms. We also present a framework to aid in thinking about the actions of these agents, highlighting the relationship between putative targets at the molecular level and the more integrated functional changes in behavior and consciousness.
Cell-penetrating peptides have been shown to translocate across eukaryotic cell membranes through a temperature-insensitive and energy-independent mechanism that does not involve membrane receptors or transporters. Although cell-penetrating peptides have been successfully used to mediate the intracellular delivery of a wide variety of molecules of pharmacological interest both in vitro and in vivo, the mechanisms by which cellular uptake occurs remain unclear. In the face of recent reports demonstrating that uptake of cell-penetrating peptides occurs through previously described endocytic pathways, or is a consequence of fixation artifacts, we conducted a critical re-evaluation of the mechanism responsible for the cellular uptake of the S4(13)-PV karyophilic cell-penetrating peptide. We report that the S4(13)-PV peptide is able to accumulate inside live cells very efficiently through a rapid, dose-dependent and non-toxic process, providing clear evidence that the cellular uptake of this peptide cannot be attributed to fixation artifacts. Comparative analysis of peptide uptake into mutant cells lacking heparan sulphate proteoglycans demonstrates that their presence at the cell surface facilitates the cellular uptake of the S4(13)-PV peptide, particularly at low peptide concentrations. Most importantly, our results clearly demonstrate that, in addition to endocytosis, which is only evident at low peptide concentrations, the efficient cellular uptake of the S4(13)-PV cell-penetrating peptide occurs mainly through an alternative, non-endocytic mechanism, most likely involving direct penetration across cell membranes.
We propose a computational model of contour integration for visual saliency. The model uses biologically plausible devices to simulate how the representations of elements aligned collinearly along a contour in an image are enhanced. Our model adds such devices as a dopamine-like fast plasticity, local GABAergic inhibition and multi-scale processing of images. The fast plasticity addresses the problem of how neurons in visual cortex seem to be able to influence neurons they are not directly connected to, for instance, as observed in contour closure effect. Local GABAergic inhibition is used to control gain in the system without using global mechanisms which may be non-plausible given the limited reach of axonal arbors in visual cortex. The model is then used to explore not only its validity in real and artificial images, but to discover some of the mechanisms involved in processing of complex visual features such as junctions and end-stops as well as contours. We present evidence for the validity of our model in several phases, starting with local enhancement of only a few collinear elements. We then test our model on more complex contour integration images with a large number of Gabor elements. Sections of the model are also extracted and used to discover how the model might relate contour integration neurons to neurons that process end-stops and junctions. Finally, we present results from real world images. Results from the model suggest that it is a good current approximation of contour integration in human vision. As well, it suggests that contour integration mechanisms may be strongly related to mechanisms for detecting end-stops and junction points. Additionally, a contour integration mechanism may be involved in finding features for objects such as faces. This suggests that visual cortex may be more information efficient and that neural regions may have multiple roles.
CKBM is an herbal formula composed of five Chinese medicinal herbs (Panax ginseng, Schisandra chinensis, Fructus crataegi, Ziziphus jujube and Glycine Max) supplemented with processed Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Previous studies have demonstrated that CKBM is capable of triggering the release of IL-6 and TNFalpha from human peripheral blood mononuclear cells, and its anti-tumorigenic activity has been demonstrated in nude mice with gastric cancer. In this report, we utilized the THP-1 monocytic cell line as a cellular model to investigate how CKBM regulates the intracellular signaling of monocytes and the subsequent release of the produced cytokines. In terms of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascades, CKBM (20%) had no significant effect on ERK, but was linked to an inhibitory effect on JNK and a stimulatory effect on p38 MAPK. The differential responsiveness of JNK and p38 was dependent on the duration of treatment, as well as on the dosage of CKBM. Treatment of CKBM alone induced the release of IL-10 and IFNgamma, but not IL-1beta, IL-4, IL-6 and TNFbeta, while increase of intracellular Ca2+ concentration by A23187 triggered the release of IL-10 only. Interestingly, A23187 synergized with the activities of CKBM-treated THP-1 cells in terms of IL-1beta and IFNgamma production, while the IL-10 production showed no synergistic relationship between CKBM and A23187. This A23187-induced synergism was associated with a dose-dependent character towards CKBM administration. In view of the intracellular Ca2+ elevation during monocyte activation, our results suggest that CKBM can serve as a promoting agent for modulating the functions of monocytes.

Previous research has shown that oocyte cumulus complex (OCC) pickup rate is inhibited in hamsters when oviducts and OCCs are simultaneously exposed to cigarette smoke solutions, independent of any effect on ciliary beat frequency. The purpose of this research was to determine whether smoke solutions caused a change in adhesion between the OCC and infundibulum of the oviduct and to determine whether a change in adhesion could account for decreased OCC pickup rate. OCC pickup rate and adhesion were measured before and after infundibula or OCCs recovered from acute in vitro exposures to mainstream and sidestream whole, gas, or particulate smoke solutions. Ciliary beat frequency was also measured on infundibula. Overall, smoke solutions decreased oocyte pickup rate 40% to 80% below control levels and increased adhesion 52% to 91% above control levels when infundibula were pretreated. A change in adhesion was observed in cases for which decreased OCC pickup rate could not be explained by a change in ciliary beat frequency. OCC pickup rate decreased 20% to 35% below control levels and adhesion increased 39% to 54% above control levels when OCCs were pretreated. These data show not only that cigarette smoke causes an increase in OCC adhesion to the oviduct, but also that there is a correlation between increased adhesion and decreased OCC pickup rate. The results also show that the both the OCC and oviduct are targets of cigarette smoke. The oviduct is more sensitive to the adverse effects of smoke; however, this may be caused by a combined impact on mechanisms involved in both adhesion and ciliary function.
Scientific investigations depend on the reliability of the observations that can be made. This reliability is determined in part by the understanding of the techniques and technology used to make the observations. The limitations and the strengths of the methodology and the equipment used must be evaluated thoroughly. The extent to which this is and has been the case for the use of the metal based stains in neuroscience is the subject of this paper. I evaluate the metallic stains used for neuroscience from several perspectives. I review briefly the state of neurohistology prior to its &quot;golden years,&quot; 1870-1910. Then I trace the development of the silver based stains used for neurohistology. I wanted to discuss the reasoning used by the originators of the silver based techniques in developing their specific procedures, but discovered that while procedures may be published, the methods and ideas used to arrive at the final procedures are not usually described in published work.
We studied the immunoregulatory features of murine mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) in vitro and in vivo. MSCs inhibited T-cell receptor (TCR)-dependent and -independent proliferation but did not induce apoptosis on T cells. Such inhibition was paired with a decreased interferon (IFN)-gamma and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha production and was partially reversed by interleukin-2 (IL-2). Thus, we used MSCs to treat myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG)35-55-induced experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) in C57BL/6J mice. We injected intravenously 1 x 10(6) MSCs before disease onset (preventive protocol) and at different time points after disease occurrence (therapeutic protocol). MSC administration before disease onset strikingly ameliorated EAE. The therapeutic scheme was effective when MSCs were administered at disease onset and at the peak of disease but not after disease stabilization. Central nervous system (CNS) pathology showed decreased inflammatory infiltrates and demyelination in mice that received transplants of MSCs. T-cell response to MOG and mitogens from MSC-treated mice was inhibited and restored by IL-2 administration. Upon MSC transfection with the enhanced green fluorescent protein (eGFP), eGFP(+) cells were detected in the lymphoid organs of treated mice. These data suggest that the immunoregulatory properties of MSCs effectively interfere with the autoimmune attack in the course of EAE inducing an in vivo state of T-cell unresponsiveness occurring within secondary lymphoid organs.
Using thrombopoietin (TPO), as selective pressure, several TPO-dependent clones were isolated from the murine multipotential IL-3-dependent cell line 32D. Four of them were fully characterized. They depended on TPO for survival and proliferation and, although retaining the capacity to grow in IL-3, did not respond to either EPO, G-CSF or GM-CSF. 32D TPO cells were heterogeneous in morphology and ranged from small cells, with a DNA content nearly tetraploid and a modal chromosome no. 66, to cells 50-75 microm in diameter containing multiple (up to 5-6) interconnected nuclei with a clear megakaryocyte (Mk) morphology by electron microscopy. Cell sorter isolation and single cell cloning experiments indicated that the small cells were those capable to proliferate in TPO and to generate the larger ones over time. 32D TPO cells expressed Mk-specific markers by FACS (CD41, CD61 and 2D5) and RT-PCR (acetyl cholinesterase E and platelet factor 4) and their unique profile, by gene array analysis, included expression of urokinase plasminogen activator surface receptor (CD87 or uPAR), plasminogen activator inhibitor and coagulation factor II (thrombin) receptor (Cf2r). In addition, by quantitative RT-PCR, 32D TPO clones expressed levels of Gata1 similar to those expressed by freshly isolated Mks (DeltaCt approximately 4.7 in both cases). In conclusion, the 32D TPO subclones described here are among the few pure Mk cell lines isolated so far and, for their unique properties, may prove themselves as a useful model to study Mk differentiation.

P2X3/P2X2/3 receptors have emerged as important components of nociception. However, there is limited information regarding the neurochemical systems that are affected by antagonism of the P2X3/P2X2/3 receptor and that ultimately contribute to the ensuing antinociception. In order to determine if the endogenous opioid system is involved in this antinociception, naloxone was administered just prior to the injection of a selective P2X3/P2X2/3 receptor antagonist, A-317491, in rat models of neuropathic, chemogenic, and inflammatory pain. Naloxone (1-10 mg kg(-1), i.p.), dose-dependently reduced the antinociceptive effects of A-317491 (1-300 micromol kg(-1), s.c.) in the CFA model of thermal hyperalgesia and the formalin model of chemogenic pain (2nd phase), but not in the L5-L6 spinal nerve ligation model of neuropathic allodynia. In comparison experiments, the same doses of naloxone blocked or attenuated the actions of morphine (2 or 8 mg kg(-1), s.c.) in each of these behavioral models. Injection of a peripheral opioid antagonist, naloxone methiodide (10 mg kg(-1), i.p.), did not affect A-317491-induced antinociception in the CFA and formalin assays, suggesting that the opioid component of this antinociception occurred within the CNS. Furthermore, this utilization of the central opioid system could be initiated by antagonism of spinal P2X3/P2X2/3 receptors since the antinociceptive actions of intrathecally delivered A-317491 (30 nmol) in the formalin model were reduced by both intrathecally (10-50 nmol) and systemically (10 mg kg(-1), i.p.) administered naloxone. This utilization of the opioid system was not specific to A-317491 since suramin-, a nonselective P2X receptor antagonist, induced antinociception was also attenuated by naloxone. In in vitro studies, A-317491 (3-100 microM) did not produce any agonist response at delta opioid receptors expressed in NG108-15 cells. A-317491 had been previously shown to be inactive at the kappa and mu opioid receptors. Furthermore, naloxone, at concentrations up to 1 mM, did not compete for [3H] A-317491 binding in 1321N1 cells expressing human P2X3 receptors. Taken together, these results indicate that antagonism of spinal P2X3/P2X2/3 receptors results in an indirect activation of the opioid system to alleviate inflammatory hyperalgesia and chemogenic nociception.

Ordinarily, when stressors are encountered, a cascade of cognitive and behavioural responses is evoked that serves to protect the individual from compromised well-being. When coping resources or skills are limited or ineffective, then psychological disturbances, such as depression, may ensue (Paykel, 2001). Although any number of factors could account for variations of stress resilience, this paper argues that early life experiences and relationships, and particularly those with parents or primary caregivers, may contribute to the development of appropriate styles of coping, which, in turn, influence affective responses in the face of stressors encountered in adulthood.
Several neuroimaging studies of cognitive ageing have found that age-related deficits in working memory (WM) and episodic memory abilities are related to changes in prefrontal cortex (PFC) function. Reviews of these neuroimaging studies have generally concluded that with age there is a reduction in the hemispheric specialization of cognitive function in the frontal lobes that may either be due to dedifferentiation of function, deficits in function and/or functional reorganization and compensation. Moreover, previous reviews have considered the PFC as homogeneous in function and have not taken into account the possibility that region specific changes in PFC function may occur with age. In the current review we performed a qualitative meta-analytic review of all the functional magnetic resonance imaging ageing studies and positron emission tomography ageing studies of WM and episodic memory that report PFC activation, to determine if any region-specific changes occur. The results indicated that in normal ageing distinct PFC regions exhibit different patterns of functional change, suggesting that age-related changes in PFC function are not homogeneous in nature. Specifically, we hypothesize that normal ageing is related to the differentiation of cortical function in a bilateral ventral PFC and deficits in function in right dorsal and anterior PFC. As a result of these changes, functional compensation in left dorsal and anterior PFC may occur. We hope that future studies will be conducted to either confirm or counter these hypotheses.
Semantic dementia is a syndrome of progressive deterioration in semantic memory (knowledge of objects, people, concepts and words). It falls within the clinical spectrum of frontotemporal dementia but its pathology is yet to be studied systematically. This study included 18 consecutive post mortem cases meeting clinical criteria for semantic dementia. Clinic records and diagnostic histopathology were available for all cases; structural neuroimaging, neuropsychology and semi-quantitative histopathology/immunohistochemistry data were analysed where possible. The pathological diagnosis in a clear majority of cases was frontotemporal degeneration with ubiquitin inclusions (n = 13). Eleven of these cases had characteristic motor neuron disease-type inclusions in the dentate gyrus and cerebral cortex. Ubiquitin inclusions were found only in the inferior olivary nucleus in the other two, one of which was the only case to show degeneration of motor tracts and also to have shown evidence of motor neuron disease during life. None of the patients had motor symptoms or signs at presentation. A family history of motor neuron disease was documented in one case. Pick body-positive Pick's disease appeared three times. Two cases had Alzheimer's disease and significant coincidental Alzheimer-type pathology was also found in one of the ubiquitin inclusion cases. One of the Alzheimer's disease patients had changes in white matter signal on scanning, whereas all other scans showed cerebral atrophy only. Semi-quantitative assessment of regional neuronal loss found that anterior and inferior temporal regions bore the brunt of disease across all histopathological subtypes, usually on the left side, implicating this region in semantic processing.
It was long held as an axiom that new neurons are not produced in the adult human brain. More recent studies have identified multipotent cells whose progeny express glial or neuronal markers. This discovery may lead to new therapeutic strategies for CNS disorders, either by stimulating neurogenesis in vivo or by transplanting multipotent progenitor cells (MPCs) that have been propagated and differentiated in vitro. The clinical application of such approaches will be limited by the ability of these cells to develop into functional neurons. To facilitate an understanding of mechanisms regulating neurogenesis in the adult human brain, we characterized the developmental processes MPCs go through when progressing to a neuron. Human tissue was harvested during temporal lobe resections because of epilepsy, and cells were cultured as neurospheres. Our findings demonstrate that at an early stage, these cells often stain with neuronal markers without possessing any functional neuronal properties. Over a period of 4 weeks in culture, cells go through characteristic steps of morphological and electrophysiological development towards functional neurons; they develop a polarized appearance with multiple dendrites, whereas the membrane potential becomes more negative and the input resistance decreases [from -48 +/- 10 mV/557 +/- 85 MOmega (n = 15) between days 7 and 11 to -59 +/- 9 mV/380 +/- 79 MOmega (n = 9) between days 25 and 38, respectively]. Active membrane properties were first observed on day 7 and consisted of a voltage-gated K+-current. Later in the second week the cells developed voltage-gated Ca2+-channels and fired small Ca2+-driven action potentials. Immature Na+-driven action potentials developed from the beginning of the third week, and by the end of the fourth week the cells fired repetitive action potentials with a completely mature waveform generated by the combined action of the voltage-gated ionic channels INa, IA and IK. After 4 weeks, the newly formed neurons also communicated by the use of GABAergic and glutamatergic synapses. The adult human brain thus harbours MPCs, which have the ability to develop into neurons and in doing this follow characteristic steps of neurogenesis as seen in the developing brain.
Cognitive neuroscience researchers have hypothesized that context-dependent and context-independent response selection is associated with the left and right frontal lobe, respectively, in right-handed adult males. Patients with left frontal lobe lesions show context-independent reasoning in a cognitive bias task (CBT), while those with right frontal lesions show context-dependent reasoning. Young children show more context-independent responses in a modified CBT (mCBT), while adolescents and adults show more context-dependent responses. We investigated the cognitive bias of right-handed children with unilateral frontal lobe lesions/epileptic foci to explore the plasticity of lateralization in the frontal lobes. The study included eight children with left frontal lobe lesions/epileptic foci (LLF) and four children with right frontal lobe lesions/epileptic foci (RLF). Twenty-three right-handed age-matched males served as controls. A computer presented version of the original card-choice task that was simplified and modified for children was used (mCBT). Simple visual stimuli differed dichotomously in shape, color, number, and shading. A target object presented alone was followed by two choices from which subjects made selection based on preference. Considering all four characteristics, the degree of similarity between the target and the subjects' choice was scored for 30 trials. A high score indicated a context-dependent response selection bias and a low score indicated a context-independent bias. The RLF subjects had a higher converted score (mean: 26.8+/-2.2), while LLF subjects showed a lower converted score (mean: 7.75+/-6.3). There were highly significant differences between LLF subjects and the other groups (P&lt;0.001 vs. controls or RLF subjects). No significant correlations were observed between the converted scores and the age at onset, time since insult, or IQ in either LLF or RLF subjects. These findings suggest that the lateralization of frontal lobe function elicited by mCBT is fundamental and independent of language lateralization, rather than secondary to it. Furthermore, these findings also indicate that the timetable for the development of lateralized frontal lobe functions depends upon biologic factors.
The ability of amnesic patients to learn and retain non-declarative information has been consistently demonstrated in the literature. This knowledge provided by basic cognitive neuroscience studies has been widely neglected in neuropsychological rehabilitation of memory impaired patients. This study reports the case of a 43 year old man with severe amnesia following an anterior communicating artery (ACoA) aneurysm rupture. The patient integrated a comprehensive (holistic) day treatment programme for rehabilitation of brain injury. The programme explored the advantages of using preserved non-declarative memory capacities, in the context of commonly used rehabilitation approaches (i.e. compensation for lost function and domain-specific learning). The patient's ability to learn and retain new cognitive and perceptual-motor skills was found to be critical for the patient's improved independence and successful return to work.
We review features of the spelling errors of dysgraphic patients with &quot;Graphemic Buffer Disorder&quot; (GBD). We argue that the errors made by such patients suggest the breakdown of a system used to generate serial order in the output stages of spelling production, and we develop a model for this system based on an existing theory of sequential behaviour--&quot;Competitive Queuing.&quot; We show that constraints on response categories may be straightforwardly applied during sequence production in such a model, and this enables us to account for the preservation of consonant-vowel status in the spelling errors of GBD patients. When the sequence generation process is disrupted by the addition of random noise the model shows the major features of GBD. The results are compared in detail against data from a number of patients.
Subcellular localisation of proteins and peptides yields fundamental information about cell functioning. Immunoelectron microscopy is a powerful tool to achieve this goal, but combining good tissue preservation with strong immunoreactivity is a great challenge in electron microscopy. We have applied a novel approach, using high-pressure freezing (HPF) followed by cryosubstitution, to prepare the pituitary gland of the amphibian Xenopus laevis for immunogold-electron microscopy. In this way, we investigated the subcellular distribution of brain-derived neurotrophic factor and the amphibian neurohormone mesotocin in the pituitary neural lobe, and the peptide hormone alpha-melanophore-stimulating hormone and its protein precursor proopiomelanocortin in melanotrope cells of the pituitary intermediate lobe. In contrast to conventional chemical fixation (followed by cryosubstitution), HPF not only revealed strong immunoreactivity of the secretory products, but also provided excellent ultrastructural preservation of cell organelles, including secretory granule subtypes. We conclude that HPF followed by cryosubstitution provides a preparation technique of choice when both optimal tissue ultrastructure and strong immunoreactivity are required.
Repair of CNS injury or degeneration by cell replacement may lead to significant functional recovery only through faithful reconstruction of the original anatomical architecture. This is particularly relevant for point-to-point systems, where precisely patterned connections have to be re-established to regain adaptive function. Despite the major interest recently drawn on cell therapies, little is known about the mechanisms and the potentialities for specific integration of new neurons in the mature CNS. Major findings and concepts about this issue will be reviewed here, with special focus on work dealing with the Purkinje cell transplantation in the rodent cerebellum. These studies show that the adult CNS may provide some efficient information to direct cell engraftment and process outgrowth. On their side, immature cells may be able to induce adaptive changes in their adult partners to facilitate their incorporation in the recipient network. Despite the rather high degree of specific integration achieved in several different CNS regions, these processes are usually defective and long-distance connections are not rewired. Thus, although some potentialities for cell replacement exist in the mature CNS, full incorporation of new neurons in adult circuits is rarely observed. Indeed, intrinsic mechanisms for growth control as well as injury-induced changes in the properties and architecture of the nervous tissue contribute to hamper repair processes. As a consequence, crucial to obtain successful cell replacement and integration in the mature CNS is a deep understanding of the basic biological mechanisms that regulate the interactions between newly added elements and the recipient environment.
Naturally occurring neuronal death plays a substantial developmental role in the building of the neural circuitries. The neuronal death caused by different cerebellar mutations is mostly of an apoptotic nature. Apart from the identity of the intrinsic mechanisms of the mutations, adult cerebellar mutants are a powerful tool to causally study the development of the cerebellar connectivity. Thus, studies on adult cerebellar neuronal cell death occurring in mouse mutants elucidate: (i) the dependence of the postsynaptic neurons on their partners, (ii) the 'en cascade' postsynaptic transneuronal degeneration after target-deprivation, and (iii) the close relationship between the molecular modular organization of the cerebellar cortex and dying Purkinje cells. Neuronal cell death has been extensively studied in developing olivocerebellar system. However, less data are available on the occurrence of naturally occurring neuronal death during the in vivo normal development of the Purkinje cells and the mossy fiber system neurons. The developmental role of neuronal death during the establishment and refinement of the olivocerebellar projection is currently discussed. Moreover, the occurrence of neuronal death during the development of the basilar pontine nuclei and its role in the acquisition of the adult pontocerebellar projection is still poorly understood. In the present review, we correlate the dates of Purkinje cells death with the inferior olivary and basilar pontine neuronal apoptosis, discussing their developmental relationships during the elaboration of the fine-grained maps of the cerebellar afferent connections.
Mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathways are well known to be involved in signal transduction from extracellular to intracellular compartments in all eukaryotes. The activation of this cascade will have an effect on cell proliferation, differentiation, and apoptosis. In this study, we describe the cloning of the chick Mkp3 gene that is highly homologous to the mammalian gene and are both expressed in several embryo regions with demonstrated morphogenetic activity. In early developmental stages, Mkp3 and Fgf8 have similar expression patterns. Differences in the activation of Mkp3 transcription in the isthmus and the repression with FGF receptor inhibition suggest that Fgf8 protein controls Mkp3 transcription. Ectopically, expression of Fgf8 protein induces Mkp3 in a short period of time in the diencephalon, indicating a positive regulation of Mkp3 by Fgf8. Moreover, we show a distinct tissue competence to express Mkp3 rostrally and caudally to the zona limitans intrathalamica (ZLI).
In recent years much emphasis has been placed on investigation of the precise control of FGF signaling during brain development. Such control is achieved in part by regulatory elements that determine the domains and levels of expression of genes coding for the diverse FGF ligands via specific molecular signaling pathways. There is new knowledge on the operation of such mechanisms in regions of the neural tube involved in the correct patterning of adjacent territories (known as secondary organizers of neural tube pattern). In the present minireview we intend to summarize recent evidence and emerging conclusions on potent modulators that govern the activity of Fgf8 signals in the developing vertebrate brain, focusing our attention on the best known secondary organizer, the isthmic organizer.
One of the major problems in affective neuroscience of healthy subjects as well as of patients with emotional dysfunctions is to disentangle emotional core functions and non-emotional processes. Emotional valence is considered an emotional key process. The present study employed a parametric functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study to address this question. Thirteen healthy volunteers were scanned during emotional stimulus processing (International Affective Picture System). The presented pictures covered the entire range of emotional valences. The fMRI data were consecutively subjected to a preliminary categorical (valence-independent) and a detailed parametric analysis, the latter using individual valence ratings as regressor. The parametric analysis revealed a linear valence-dependent modulation of the BOLD signal in the orbito- and dorsomedial prefrontal cortex (OMPFC, DMPFC), medial parietal cortex (MPC), and insula. In addition, we observed that emotional valence exerts its effects predominantly via modulation of signal decreases. We conclude that the psychological concept of emotional valence may be related to neural processing in cortical midline regions.
The recognition potential is traditionally described as an electrical index elicited when subjects view a recognizable stimulus. Recent studies further show that it may be influenced by semantic processing. In this study, we investigated whether this observed influence is really produced by differences in semantic processing or whether it might be caused by the detection of differences between sequentially presented stimuli. In two different experiments, we systematically altered the type of background images presented while keeping the recognizable word constant. Analyses revealed that the same recognizable words elicited an RP with different amplitudes and latencies when viewed under different background conditions. Control stimuli, which were identical to background stimuli, did not elicit the RP. Hence, we postulate that when using the rapid stream stimulation paradigm, RP might also be influenced by the detection of differences between sequentially input stimuli. It is necessary to clarify whether RP changes are caused by the processing of the stimuli or by the detection of difference between successively input stimuli before any conclusion could be made.
In order to clarify the respective contribution of the right and left posterior parietal cortex (PPC) to number comparison, transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) was used to disrupt PPC processing in subjects instructed to determine whether a digit was smaller or larger than 5. Single pulse TMS was applied over the PPC, either unilaterally or bilaterally, 150, 200, or 250 ms after digit presentation. Sham TMS was used as a control condition to take into account the unspecific effects of TMS on reaction time (RT). The main finding of the present study is a significant increase in RTs when comparing digits close to 5 following a disruption either of the left PPC alone or of both PPC simultaneously. The comparison of digits far from 5 was unaltered by disrupting only one PPC but RTs were found increased after bilateral PPC stimulation. These disruptive effects were observed irrespective of the TMS delay. We concluded that coding precise numerical values requires the integrity of the left PPC, as suggested by the deficit in discriminating close digits consequent to its disruption. In contrast, approximate comparisons can be processed either by the left or right PPC, since simultaneous bilateral TMS was needed to alter the comparison of digits far from 5.
This study investigated the electrophysiological correlates of shifting, maintaining, and relaxing the focus of attention, using a symbolic cuing task. Cues and imperative stimuli were presented in rapid succession, and the ADJAR procedure was used to remove the contribution of event-related potential (ERP) activity associated with the imperative stimulus from the cue-related ERP waveforms. Initial analyses, comparing left and right attention-directing cues, replicated previous findings of early directing attention negativity (EDAN) and anterior directing attention negativity (ADAN) effects. To isolate ERP activity that is common to leftward and rightward attention shifts, the combined ERP activity elicited by attention-directing cues was compared to the ERP activity elicited by non-informative cues. This analysis revealed a strong and broadly distributed early positivity followed by a sustained central negativity, possibly reflecting the controlled orienting and subsequent maintenance of attentional focus. Finally, imperative stimuli preceded by non-informative cues were characterized by an enhanced posterior P2 effect, with a scalp distribution indicative of generators in visual areas. This result suggests a relatively late (re)activation in visual areas associated with the processing of stimuli that had not been cued in advance.
Alzheimer's disease is a progressive and irreversible neurodegenerative disorder that leads to cognitive, memory and behavioural impairments. Two decades of research have implicated disturbances of intracellular calcium homeostasis as playing a proximal pathological role in the neurodegeneration associated with Alzheimer's disease. A large preponderance of evidence has been gained from the use of a diverse range of cell lines. Whilst useful in understanding the principal mechanism of neurotoxicity associated with Alzheimer's disease, technical differences, such as cell type or even the form of amyloid-beta used often underlie conflicting results. In this review, we discuss recent contributions that transgenic technology has brought to this field. For example, the triple transgenic mouse model of Alzheimer's disease has implicated intraneuronal accumulation of the amyloid-beta peptide as an initiating factor in synaptic dysfunction and behavioural deficits. Importantly, this synaptic dysfunction occurs prior to cell loss or extracellular amyloid plaque accumulation. The cause of synaptic dysfunction is unknown but it is likely that amyloid-beta and its ability to disrupt intracellular calcium homeostasis plays a key role in this process.
Upregulation of cell cycle proteins occurs in both mitotic and post-mitotic neural cells after central nervous system (CNS) injury in adult animals. In mitotic cells, such as astroglia and microglia, they induce proliferation, whereas in post-mitotic cells such as neurons they initiate caspase-related apoptosis. We recently reported that early central administration of the cell cycle inhibitor flavopiridol after experimental traumatic brain injury (TBI) significantly reduced lesion volume, scar formation and neuronal cell death, while promoting near complete behavioral recovery. Here we show that in primary neuronal or astrocyte cultures structurally different cell cycle inhibitors (flavopiridol, roscovitine, and olomoucine) significantly reduce upregulation of cell cycle proteins, attenuate neuronal cell death induced by etoposide, and decrease astrocyte proliferation. Flavopiridol, in a concentration dependent manner, also attenuates proliferation/activation of microglia. In addition, we demonstrate that central administration of flavopiridol improves functional outcome in dose-dependent manner after fluid percussion induced brain injury in rats. Moreover, delayed systemic administration of flavopiridol significantly reduces brain lesion volume and edema development after TBI. These data provide further support for the therapeutic potential of cell cycle inhibitors for the treatment of clinical CNS injury and that protective mechanisms likely include reduction of neuronal cell death, inhibition of glial proliferation and attenuation of microglial activation.
The 13-amino acid peptide neurotensin (NT) was discovered over 30 years ago and has been implicated in a wide variety of neurotransmitter and endocrine functions. This review focuses on four areas where there has been substantial recent progress in understanding NT signaling and several functions of the endogenous peptide. The first area concerns the functional activation of the high-affinity NT receptor, NTR-1, including the delineation of the NT binding pocket and receptor domains involved in functional coupling to intracellular signaling pathways. The development of NT receptor antagonists and the application of genetic and molecular genetic approaches have accelerated progress in understanding NT function in several areas, including the involvement of NT in antipsychotic drug actions, psychostimulant sensitization and the modulation of pain, and these are reviewed in that order. There is now substantial evidence indicating that NT is required for certain antipsychotic drug actions and that the peptide plays a key role in stress-induced analgesia.
Huntington's disease (HD) is caused by a polyglutamine expansion in the protein huntingtin and is characterized by intraneuronal inclusions and widespread neuronal death at the late stage of the disease. In research, most of the emphasis has been on understanding the cell death and its mechanisms. Until recently, it was believed that the vast majority, if not all, of the symptoms in HD are a direct consequence of neurodegeneration. However, increasing evidence shows that subtle alterations in synaptic function could underlie the early symptoms. It is of particular interest to understand the nature of this neuronal dysfunction. Normal huntingtin interacts with various cytoskeletal and synaptic vesicle proteins that are essential for exocytosis and endocytosis. Altered interactions of mutant huntingtin with its associated partners could contribute to abnormal synaptic transmission in HD. This review describes recent advances in understanding synaptic dysfunction in HD.
Adenosine 5'-triphosphate is known to function as a potent extracellular messenger, producing its effects via a distinct family of cell surface receptors. Different receptor subtypes have been shown to modulate different cellular functions such as proliferation, differentiation and apoptosis. We have investigated the functional expression and apoptotic action of the P2 X (7) receptor in human malignant melanoma tissue and cells. Incubation of cells with the potent P2 X (7) receptor agonist 2'-3'-O-(4-benzoyl-benzoyl) adenosine 5'-triphosphate leads to a decrease in cell number, which is dose-dependent and reversible by the antagonist 1-N,O-bis-[5-isoquinoline-sulfonyl]-N-methyl-L-tyrosyl)-4-phenyl-piperazine. Synthesis of the P2 X(7) receptor by these cells has been established by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction, immunohistochemistry, immunocytochemistry and cellular accumulation of the fluorescent DNA-binding dye YO-PRO-1. The P2 X(7) receptors have been shown to mediate apoptotic actions of extracellular nucleotides and represent a novel target for melanoma therapy.
This double-blind, placebo-controlled study was designed to evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of early treatment of a single migraine attack, when headache pain was mild, with two doses (20 mg and 40 mg) of eletriptan. Patients (N = 613; female 79%; mean age 39 years) meeting International Headache Society criteria for migraine were encouraged, but not required, to utilize early treatment, thus providing an opportunity to assess the relative contribution to efficacy of pain severity and timing of dose. For the total patient sample (mild-to-severe headaches), 2-h pain-free rates were significantly higher than placebo (22%) on both eletriptan 20 mg (35%; P &lt; 0.01) and eletriptan 40 mg (47%; P &lt; 0.0001). For the cohort of patients who treated their headache when the pain intensity was mild, the 2-h pain-free rate on eletriptan 40 mg was 68% compared with 25% on placebo (P &lt; 0.0001). Pain intensity at the time of taking eletriptan appeared to influence outcome more than the timing of the dose relative to headache onset. Eletriptan was well-tolerated, with adverse event rates similar to placebo when mild headaches were treated.
Human and non-human primates are able to perceive three-dimensional structure from motion displays. Three-dimensional structure-from-motion (object-motion) displays were used to test the hypothesis that neurons in the anterior division of the superior temporal polysensory area (STPa) of monkeys can selectively respond to three-dimensional structure-from-motion. Monkeys performed a reaction time task that required the detection of a change in the fraction of structure in three-dimensional transparent sphere displays. Neurons were able to distinguish structured and unstructured three-dimensional optic flow. These cells could differentiate the change in structure-from-motion at stimulus presentation and when the animal was detecting the amount of structure in the display. Some of these neurons were also tuned for characteristics of the sphere stimuli. Cells were also tested with navigational motion and many were found to respond both to three-dimensional structure-from-motion and navigational motion. These results suggest that STPa neurons represent specific aspects of three-dimensional surface structure and that neurons within STPa contribute to the perception of three-dimensional structure-from-motion.
Many anesthetics evoke electroencephalogram (EEG) burst suppression activity in humans and animals during anesthesia, and the mechanisms underlying this activity remain unclear. The present study used a rat neocortical brain slice EEG preparation to investigate excitatory synaptic mechanisms underlying anesthetic-induced burst suppression activity. Excitatory synaptic mechanisms associated with burst suppression activity were probed using glutamate receptor antagonists (CNQX and APV), GABA receptor antagonists, and simultaneous whole cell patch clamp and microelectrode EEG recordings. Clinically relevant concentrations of thiopental (50--70 microM), propofol (5--10 microM) or isoflurane (0.7--2.1 vol%, 0.5--1.5 rat minimum aveolar concentration (MAC), 200--700 microM) evoked delta slow wave activity and burst suppression EEG patterns similar to in vivo responses. These effects on EEG signals were blocked by glutamate receptor antagonists CNQX (8.6 microM) or APV (50 microM). Depolarizing intracellular bursts (amplitude=34.7+/-4.5 mV; half width=132+/-60 ms) always accompanied EEG bursts, and hyperpolarization increased intracellular burst amplitudes. Barrages of glutamate-mediated excitatory events initiated EEG bursting activity. Glutamate-mediated excitatory postsynaptic currents were significantly depressed by higher anesthetic concentrations that depressed burst suppression EEG activity. A GABA(A) agonist produced a similar EEG effect to the anesthetics. It appears that anesthetic effects at both glutamate and GABA synapses contribute to EEG patterns seen during anesthesia.
Normal aging and chronic alcoholism result in disruption of brain white matter microstructure that does not typically cause complete lesions but may underlie degradation of functions requiring interhemispheric information transfer. We examined whether the microstructural integrity of the corpus callosum assessed with diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) would relate to interhemispheric processing speed. DTI yields estimates of fractional anisotropy (FA), a measure of orientation and intravoxel coherence of water diffusion usually in white matter fibers, and diffusivity (&lt;D&gt;), a measure of the amount of intracellular and extracellular fluid diffusion. We tested the hypothesis that FA and &lt;D&gt; would be correlated with (i) the crossed-uncrossed difference (CUD), testing visuomotor interhemispheric transfer; and (ii) the redundant targets effect (RTE), testing parallel processing of visual information presented to each cerebral hemisphere. FA was lower and &lt;D&gt; higher in alcoholics than in controls. In controls but not alcoholics, large CUDs correlated with low FA and high &lt;D&gt; in total corpus callosum and regionally in the genu and splenium. In alcoholics but not controls, small RTEs, elicited with equiluminant stimuli, correlated with low FA in genu and splenium and high &lt;D&gt; in the callosal body. The results provide in vivo evidence for disruption of corpus callosum microstructure in normal aging and alcoholism that has functional ramifications for efficiency in interhemispheric processing.
Group II metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) play an important role in the regulation of hippocampal synaptic plasticity in vivo: long-term potentiation (LTP) is inhibited and long-term depression (LTD) is enhanced by activation of these receptors. The contribution, in vivo, of the individual group II mGluR subtypes has not been characterized. We analysed the involvement of the subtype mGluR3 in LTD and LTP. Rats were implanted with electrodes to enable chronic measurement of evoked potentials from medial perforant path-dentate gyrus synapses. Neither the selective mGluR3 agonist, N-acetylaspartylglutamate (NAAG), nor the antagonist beta-NAAG, given intracerebrally, affected basal synaptic transmission. beta-NAAG significantly inhibited LTD expression. NAAG exhibited transient inhibitory effects on the intermediate phase of LTD. Whereas NAAG altered paired-pulse responses, beta-NAAG had no effect, suggesting that antagonism of mGluR3 prevents LTD via a postsynaptic mechanism, whereas agonist activation of mGluR3 modulates LTD at a presynaptic locus. NAAG impaired the expression of LTP, whereas beta-NAAG had no effect. NAAG effects on LTP were blocked by EGLU, a selective group II mGluR antagonist. Our data suggest an essential role for mGluR3 in LTD, and a modulatory role for mGluR3 in LTP, with effects being mediated by distinct pre- and post-synaptic loci.


Dopamine (DA) acts as a key neurotransmitter in the brain. Numerous studies have shown its regulatory role in motor and cognitive function. However, the impairment of emotional processes in neurologic and psychiatric pathologies involving the dopaminergic system (Parkinson disease, schizophrenia, autism, Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder, Huntington disease, frontal lobe lesions), as well as the influence that administration of dopaminergic agonists/antagonists exert on the processing of emotion, suggest a role for DA in emotional processes. Moreover, emotional processes are dependent upon a variety of structures, the majority of which form part of the limbic system and are subject to DA innervation. In reviewing the literature, the amygdala emerges as a brain structure critical for emotional processing. It may also be implicated in deficits in emotional recognition found in two major disorders where DA's implication is clear: Parkinson disease and schizophrenia. In addition, the amygdala's response to emotional tasks is likely to be altered by the administration of both agonist and antagonist dopaminergic drugs. Experimental studies reinforce the idea of a dopaminergic contribution to emotional response, as suggested by biochemical, pharmacologic, and lesion experiments. Although the implication of the dopaminergic system in emotional processing appears to be clearly documented, the contribution of specific DA receptor subtypes, or of the DA cotransmitters cholecystokinin and neurotensin, or even glutamate, is, however, still unclear. Altogether, these observations suggest that DA has, undoubtedly, a direct and/or indirect role in the full emotional process.




Iron deficiency is associated with multiple health problems, including the cardiovascular system. However, the mechanism of action of iron-deficiency-induced cardiovascular damage is unclear. The aim of the present study was to examine the effect of dietary iron deficiency on cardiac ultrastructure, mitochondrial cytochrome c release, NOS (nitric oxide synthase) and several stress-related protein molecules, including protein nitrotyrosine, the p47phox subunit of NADPH oxidase, caveolin-1 and RhoA. Male weanling rats were fed with either control or iron-deficient diets for 12 weeks. Cardiac ultrastructure was examined by transmission electron microscopy. Western blot analysis was used to evaluate cytochrome c, endothelial and inducible NOS, NADPH oxidase, caveolin-1 and RhoA. Protein nitrotyrosine formation was measured by ELISA. Rats fed an iron-deficient diet exhibited increased heart weight and size compared with the control group. Heart width, length and ventricular free wall thickness were similar between the two groups. However, the left ventricular dimension and chamber volume were significantly enhanced in the iron-deficient group compared with controls. Ultrastructural examination revealed mitochondrial swelling and abnormal sarcomere structure in iron-deficient ventricular tissues. Cytochrome c release was significantly enhanced in iron-deficient rats. Protein expression of eNOS (endothelial NOS) and iNOS (inducible NOS), and protein nitrotyrosine formation were significantly elevated in cardiac tissue or mitochondrial extraction from the iron-deficient group. Significantly up-regulated NADPH oxidase, caveolin-1 and RhoA expression were also detected in ventricular tissue of the iron-deficient group. Taken together, these results suggest that dietary iron deficiency may have induced cardiac hypertrophy characterized by aberrant mitochondrial and irregular sarcomere organization, which was accompanied by increased reactive nitrogen species and RhoA expression.
This study investigates the effects of negative affect on performance monitoring. EEG was acquired during a lateralized, numeric Stroop working memory task that featured task-irrelevant aversive and neutral pictures between stimuli. Performance accuracy showed a right-hemisphere advantage for stimuli that followed aversive pictures. Response-locked event-related potentials (ERPs) from accurate trials showed an early negative component (CRN; correct response/conflict-related negativity) followed by a positive wave comparable to the Pe (error positivity). The CRN was bi-peaked with an earlier peak that was sensitive to aversive pictures during early portions of the experiment and a later peak that increased with error likelihood later in the experiment. Pe amplitude was increased with aversive pictures early in the experiment and was sensitive to picture type, Stroop interference, and hemisphere of stimulus delivery during later trials. This suggests that ERP indices of performance monitoring, the CRN and Pe, are dynamically modulated by both affective and cognitive demands.
Knowledge concerning domain-specific regularities in sequential structure has long been known to affect recall for serial order. However, very little work has been done toward specifying the exact role such knowledge plays. The present article proposes a theory of serial recall in structured domains, based on Bayesian decision theory and a set of representational assumptions proceeding from recent computational and neurophysiologic research. The theory suggests that the accuracy with which a target sequence will be recalled is influenced by two interacting factors: (1) the 'goodness' of the sequence, i.e. its fit with the sequencing constraints that characterize its source domain, and (2) the sequence's neighborhood relations, i.e. the degree to which it resembles other sequences in the source domain. A specific prediction of the theory is that recall will be relatively poor for target lists with high-goodness near neighbors (the good neighbor effect). This prediction was tested and confirmed in an experiment evaluating recall for sequences based on an artificial grammar.
Sewards and Sewards (2002) argue that while computations necessary for object recognition occur throughout the ventral visual stream, object recognition awareness involves the anterior temporal lobe and the medial orbital prefrontal cortex. The present paper suggests, however, that the medial orbital prefrontal cortex has a unique contribution, namely that of producing a basic experience of a perceptual object. It is further argued that the mechanisms that produce this experience also result in making the object more important than its subparts and features. Finally, it is argued that a reduction in this importance may account for some perceptual difficulties in high-functioning autism. This view is consistent with evidence for early selective abnormalities in other systems involving the medial prefrontal cortex in autism.
The ability to be creative is often considered a unique characteristic of conscious beings and many efforts have been directed at demonstrating a relationship between creativity and the personality construct of psychoticism. The present study sought to investigate this link explicitly by focusing on discrete facets of creative cognition, namely the originality/novelty dimension and the practicality/usefulness dimension. Based on Eysenck's conceptualisation of psychoticism as being characterised by an overinclusive cognitive style, it was expected that higher levels of psychoticism would accompany a greater degree of conceptual expansion and elevated levels of originality in creative imagery, but would be unrelated to the practicality/usefulness of an idea. These hypotheses were confirmed in 80 healthy participants who were contrasted based on their EPQ psychoticism scale scores. Our findings suggest that the link between psychoticism and creativity is based on associative thinking and broader but weak top-down activation patterns rather than on goal-related thinking.
NKT cells emerge as important regulatory cells in autoimmune responses. Abnormalities in the numbers and functions of natural killer T (NKT) cells have been observed in patients with autoimmune diseases as well as in a variety of mouse strains that are genetically predisposed for development of autoimmune diseases. Unlike conventional T cells that recognize peptides in association with major histocompatibility complex (MHC), NKT cells recognize glycolipid antigens presented by the non-polymorphic MHC class I-like protein, CD1d. Recently, we and other groups have demonstrated that administration of glycolipid ligands such as alpha-galactosylceramide (alpha-GC ) or its sphingosine truncated derivative, OCH suppressed autoimmune diseases such as experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), diabetes in NOD mice and collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) by inducing T helper (Th) 2 bias of autoimmune T cells. OCH is a unique ligand to stimulate NKT cells to selectively produce Th2 cytokines whereas alpha-GC induces both interleukin (IL)-4 and interferon (IFN)-gamma, and is more beneficial for treatment of a wide variety of Th1-mediated autoimmune diseases. The lack of polymorphism of CD1d and cross-reactive responses of mouse and human NKT cells to the same ligand indicates that targeting NKT cells with this ligand may be an attractive means for intervening in human autoimmune diseases such as type I diabetes (T1D), multiple sclerosis (MS) and rheumatoid arthritis (RA). The present review will focus on the potential roles of NKT cells in the pathogenesis of autoimmune diseases and the recent advances in glycolipid therapy for autoimmune disease models. The molecular mechanism of OCH-induced Th2-selective cytokine secretion will also be discussed.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second most common neurodegenerative disease after Alzheimer's disease. Some debate still exists as to whether PD is predominantly environmental or genetic in etiology. The genetic hypothesis of PD etiology has been driven recently by the identification of a number of PD loci. This review deals with each of these loci, discussing the latest data and evidence available. Of particular interest are the recently described mutations in the PINK1 (PARK6) and LRRK2 (PARK8) genes. We also consider the impact of these latest developments on our understanding of sporadic PD and on our everyday practice with PD patients.
Psychiatric and behavioral symptoms are common in all types of dementia and have important consequences for patients, caregivers, and society. This paper reviews recent studies of the etiology and management of these symptoms. Genetic and neurochemical studies indicate that cholinergic, serotonergic, and dopaminergic systems may influence the risk of psychiatric symptoms in patients with dementia. There is still no consensus regarding the management of such symptoms. Controlled studies of psychosocial interventions, usually performed in the nursing home setting, report encouraging results. Atypical antipsychotics may be effective in some cases but have a high risk of adverse events. There is emerging evidence that cholinesterase inhibitors may reduce and prevent such symptoms. More studies are needed to clarify the role of cholinergic and other psychotropic agents as well as nonpharmacologic interventions for psychiatric and behavioral symptoms in patients with dementia.
Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) presents to a range of specialists and involves a number of management challenges. The nosologic status of the disorder is controversial, especially its clinical overlap with Parkinson's disease-related dementia and its pathologic distinction from Alzheimer's disease. This article considers some of the controversies surrounding DLB with reference to recent literature. Emphasis is given to clinical topics, including the clinical phenomenology, differential diagnosis, and the treatment of core features of the disease.
Blocking Rac1 function in precursors of the indirect flight muscle of Drosophila severely disrupts muscle formation. The DLM fibers that develop using larval scaffolds are reduced in number and fiber size, while the DVMs, which develop using founder cells, are mostly absent. These adult muscle phenotypes are in part due to a reduced myoblast pool present at the third larval instar. BrDU labeling studies indicated that this is primarily due to a reduction in proliferation. In addition, DVM myoblasts display altered morphology and are unable to segregate into primordia. This defect precedes the evident block in fusion. We also show that the recently described DVM founder cells can be labeled with 22C10 and beta-3 tubulin, and that they are present under conditions of dominant negative Rac1(N17) expression. Despite the presence of founder cells, DVM fiber formation is rarely observed. Although DLM myoblasts are able to segregate around their larval scaffolds, the pace of fusion is reduced and consequently there is a delay in DLM fiber formation. Thus, in addition to its well-established role in fusion, Rac1 is also involved in the regulation of myoblast proliferation and segregation during adult myogenesis. These are two new roles for Rac1 in Drosophila.
Our current understanding of the evolution of the mammalian middle ear was first suggested by embryological studies from the 19th century. Here, site-specific recombinase-mediated lineage tracing was used to define the second branchial arch contribution to the middle ear of wild-type and Hoxa-2 mutant embryos. The processus brevis of the malleus was found to arise from second arch tissues, making it the likely homologue of the retroarticular process of nonmammalian tetrapods. The second arch also formed a portion of the otic capsule. In light of avian lineage studies, second arch cells were probably incorporated into the otic capsule before avian and mammalian lineages diverged. In Hoxa2 mutant embryos, middle ear skeletal duplications occurred at sites where first and second arch elements are normally apposed. The dorsoventral positions at which second arch skeletal elements formed and the early migration of second arch neural crest cells were not altered by the absence of Hoxa2 function.
Neural crest is formed at the boundary of epidermal and neural ectoderm. To understand the molecular mechanism of neural crest formation, we focused on the transcriptional regulation of the Slug gene. In the upstream sequence of the chicken Slug gene, we have identified potential binding sites for transcription factors, such as Lef/Tcf and Smad1. Transgenic mouse embryos carrying the chicken Slug promoter-reporter gene showed a crest-specific activation of the reporter, suggesting the isolated sequence included the cis-regulatory elements to receive Slug-inducing signals in the mouse neural crest. While these potential cis-regulatory elements could be recognized and activated by corresponding transcription factors, such as Lef1 and Smad1, Wnt-Lef-beta-catenin signal failed to induce endogenous Slug expression in quail neural plate tissue prepared from forebrain and midbrain levels. In contrast, Slug expression and subsequent epithelial-mesenchymal transition were effectively induced by BMP4. Consistently, while we could detect phosphorylation of Smad1 in the ectoderm including the neural plate and the neural fold region, the activation of a reporter gene for a detection of canonical Wnt signal activation was below the level of detection at the forebrain and midbrain levels. These observations indicated that in the anterior ectoderm BMP signal has a predominant role for Slug expression.
Juvenile female prairie voles (Microtus ochrogaster) are spontaneously maternal, while virgin adult females show significant variability in their response to first pup exposure, ranging from infanticidal to full maternal behavior. In the present study, we investigated whether differences in anxiety-like behavior and affiliation are associated with juvenile-adult and adult individual differences in the response to pups. Forty juvenile (19-20 days) and 42 adult (60-90 days) female prairie voles were exposed to pups for the first time and tested for maternal behavior, anxiety-like behavior (elevated plus maze, open field), and affiliation toward age-matched, same sex conspecifics. Juveniles displayed less anxiety-like behavior, were more affiliative to unfamiliar conspecifics, and interacted with pups more positively than adults. Adults that displayed maternal behavior spent less time immobile, made more crosses through the center of the open field arena, and were more affiliative than adults that attacked the pups. This suggests that lower locomotion or exploration in a novel environment and poor affiliative behavior are negatively associated with maternal responsiveness in female prairie voles.
We tested the effects of exposure to different doses of lead acetate (either 0, 25, 100, or 400 ppm) on the development of aggressive behavior in male golden hamsters. Pups were tested for offensive responses across puberty, as they were maturing from play fighting to adult aggression. Our data show a dose-specific effect of lead exposure on the development of aggression during puberty at doses resulting in blood levels well below 20 microg/dl. Animals exposed to 25 ppm lead acetate were faster and performed more than twice as many attacks on intruders by late puberty. They were also twice as likely to initiate adult instead of play-fighting attacks around mid-puberty. These observations were independent of any effect on growth. Thus, exposure to low doses of lead enhanced aggression and accelerated its maturation. As such, our data support the association between exposure to low doses of lead and aggressive behavior in boys.
Previous research in our laboratory found that repeated exposure of adolescent rats to 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) impaired working memory and reduced anxiety. The present experiment extended these findings by investigating the physiological, behavioral, and neurotoxic effects of a modified MDMA treatment regimen. Male Sprague-Dawley rats received 5 mg/kg of MDMA hourly for a period of 4 hr on every fifth day from postnatal day 35-60. Acute effects of the MDMA treatment included hypothermia, serotonin syndrome behavior, and ejaculation. Body weight gain was attenuated by repeated drug administration. The animals completed anxiety and working memory tests beginning 4 days after the final MDMA dose. MDMA altered habituation to the open-field, increased locomotor activity in the elevated plus-maze, decreased attention in the novel object-recognition test, and reduced serotonin transporter binding in the neocortex. These results indicate that repeated exposure to a relatively moderate MDMA dose during adolescence produces later changes in behavior and neurochemistry.
The association of adolescents' ethnic identification with their academic attitudes and achievement was examined among a sample of 589 ninth-grade students from Mexican, Chinese, and European backgrounds. Adolescents from all backgrounds chose a variety of ethnic labels to describe themselves, with those from Mexican, Chinese, and immigrant families incorporating more of their families' national origin and cultural background into their chosen ethnic labels. Nevertheless, the strength of adolescents' ethnic identification was more relevant to their academic adjustment than the specific labels that they chose, and it was most important for the extra motivation necessary for ethnic minority students to attain the same level of academic success as their European American peers.
We evaluated the 12-month outcomes of a brief intervention, enhanced by a consistent support person, which aimed to facilitate referral attendance for substance use treatment following a hospital alcohol or other drug (AOD) presentation. Outcomes were assessed as: attendance for substance use treatment; the number of hospital AOD ED presentations; change in AOD consumption and psychological wellbeing (GHQ-12). We recruited 127 adolescents, with 60 randomised to the intervention and 67 receiving usual care. At 12 months, 87 (69%) were re-interviewed. Significantly more of the intervention than the usual care group (12 versus 4) had attended a treatment agency. Excluding the index presentations, there were 66 AOD hospital presentations post intervention, with the proportion of AOD events falling for the intervention group, whilst no change occurred for the usual care group. Irrespective of randomisation, those who attended for substance use treatment had a greater decline in total self-reported drug use than the remainder. Both intervention and usual care groups had improved GHQ-12 scores by 12 months, with reduction in GHQ scores correlated with reduced drug use. In conclusion, while brief intervention in ED only has limited success in facilitating adolescents to attend for subsequent AOD treatment, it can significantly reduce the number of AOD related ED presentations.


Contemporary theory regarding the cause and treatment of neuropsychiatric disease strongly suggests that as the human body ages it gradually loses the intrinsic safeguards that protect it from oxidative damage. Melatonin is one hormone that serves this function in that it possesses antioxidative properties in the mammalian body and brain. Melatonin has been shown to prevent the progressive degeneration produced by neurotoxins employed in experimental models to mimic the degenerative events in various neuropsychiatric disease states. There are an abundance of models for numerous disease states demonstrating that melatonin can inhibit oxidative stress and by such a mechanism it is presumed to exert a therapeutic effect. While a similar scenario has been revealed with in vitro work relating specifically to Parkinson's disease, clinical work with melatonin in this disorder demonstrates that it is devoid of any remarkable therapeutic effects. More recent preclinical and clinical work has reliably demonstrated that melatonin in fact may be without therapeutic efficacy and may even worsen the condition. On this pretense, attempts to reduce the bioavailability of melatonin using a melatonin receptor antagonist have been found to completely restore behavioral and regulatory function in the presence of chronically reduced levels of dopamine, without producing side effects commonly seen with traditional dopamine replacement therapy. The unavoidable conclusion from this work suggests that within the dynamic framework of the mammalian brain, hormones may play a duel, and possibly ambivalent, role in homeostasis and in the etiology of disease. Such a position requires a reevaluation of the etiology, the role of dopamine, the neurochemical characteristics of Parkinson's disease and the validity of the models employed to study this and other neuropsychiatric disorders.

Orexin A and B are involved in feeding behaviors, and recently fibers containing these peptides were found in the rat olfactory bulb. These fibers, which originate from the lateral and posterior hypothalamus and the perifornical area, are distributed in the glomerular, mitral cell, and granule cell layers. Orexin receptors are mainly expressed by mitral cells. In the present study, RT-PCR experiments were done to determine orexin receptor expression during the early postnatal life of rats, and immunocytochemical experiments were performed to further clarify the structural and ultrastructural localization of orexin receptors in the olfactory bulb. Furthermore, a functional electrophysiological approach examined the action of orexin A on mitral cell excitability and spontaneous activity using in vitro patch-clamp techniques. RT-PCR results show that mRNA of the two type receptors, type 1 orexin receptors and type 2 orexin receptors, are expressed in the olfactory bulb of rat from 10 d to the adult stage. At the same ages, immunocytochemical data show that orexin 1 receptors are localized in the cell bodies of periglomerular, mitral/tufted, and granule cells. Immunoreactivity was also demonstrated in mitral/tufted cell dendrites arborizing in the glomerulus and mitral/tufted and granule cell processes running in the external plexiform layer. Functionally, orexin A produced either a direct, tetrodotoxin-insensitive depolarization in one group of mitral cells (7%), or, in another group (30%), an indirect, tetrodotoxin-sensitive hyperpolarization. Both actions were mediated by type 1 orexin receptors because the response was antagonized by SB-334867-A, a selective antagonist. Mitral cell recordings performed under bicuculline [gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)A receptor antagonist], indicate that the orexin-induced indirect hyperpolarization was partly mediated through GABA(A) receptors. Because granule cells and periglomerular cells express orexin receptors and are GABAergic cells, they could be both involved in this hyperpolarization. Other mechanisms, which could support an indirect hyperpolarization of mitral cells through dopamine interneuron solicitation, are proposed. Our results provide data that should allow us to better understand neural communication and regulation mechanisms between the hypothalamic feeding centers and the olfactory bulb.
Glucocorticoid (GC) acts through both genomic and nongenomic mechanisms. It affects the structure and function of the central nervous system, especially the hippocampus. Here we report an in vitro culture system that can yield embryonic hippocampal neurons deficient in the expression of GC receptor as demonstrated by immunoblotting, immunocytochemistry, and RT-PCR. Owing to this unique feature, those neuron preparations can serve as an ideal model for studying the nongenomic actions of GC on neural cells. In this study, we found that the Erk1/2, c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), and p38 MAPKs were activated in these neurons by BSA-conjugated corticosterone within 15 min of treatment. This activation was not blocked by RU38486, spironolactone, or cycloheximide. Therefore, it is concluded that the activation of MAPKs observed here was due to the nongenomic action of GC. Furthermore, a 24-h incubation with corticosterone at concentrations ranged from 10(-11)-10(-5) M did not have an effect on the viability of GC receptor-deficient neurons.
We investigated the effects of glucocorticoid manipulation on orexin-A-induced feeding and prepro-orexin mRNA levels in the lateral hypothalamic area (LHA) of the rat brain. Adrenalectomy (ADX) reduced orexin-A-induced feeding over 4 h by about 60%, compared with shams, an effect that was reversed by corticosterone (CORT) replacement. ADX had no effect on prepro-orexin mRNA levels in the LHA in either the morning or the evening; however, message was up-regulated by CORT in the morning but not the evening. An increased number of emulsion grains per cell in the LHA suggests that this is a specific increase in prepro-orexin mRNA and is not due to an increased number of cells expressing message. Prepro-orexin mRNA levels in the LHA were elevated 4 h after injection of lipopolysaccharide, compared with saline-injected controls. Partial but not complete abolition of orexin-A-induced feeding by ADX suggests that orexin-A-induced feeding may be mediated through glucocorticoid-dependent and glucocorticoid-independent pathways. In the morning increased prepro-orexin mRNA after CORT replacement demonstrates that orexin expression is sensitive to increased concentrations of glucocorticoids. However, the lack of effect of ADX on prepro-orexin mRNA levels suggests that endogenous glucocorticoids are not involved in tonic regulation of basal prepro-orexin expression. Overall our data constitute a body of evidence for an integrated relationship between central orexin expression, stress, glucocorticoid manipulation, and feeding patterns in the rat.
Inhibitors of serine proteases (serpins) are important regulators of intracellular and extracellular proteolytic pathways, and they function by forming an irreversible complex with their substrate. Neuroserpin represents a neuroendocrine-specific serpin family member that is expressed in brain regions displaying synaptic plasticity. In this study, we explored the biosynthesis of endogenous neuroserpin in a neuroendocrine model system, namely the melanotrope cells of Xenopus intermediate pituitary. The biosynthetic activity of these cells can be physiologically manipulated (high and low production of the prohormone proopiomelanocortin in black and white animals, respectively), resulting from a synaptic plasticity in innervating hypothalamic neurons. We found that neuroserpin was also differentially expressed in the Xenopus intermediate, but not anterior, pituitary with a 3-fold higher mRNA and more than 30-fold higher protein expression in the active vs. the inactive melanotrope cells. Two newly synthesized glycosylated forms of the neuroserpin protein (47 and 50 kDa) were produced and secreted by the active cells. Intriguingly, neuroserpin was found in an approximately 130-kDa sodium dodecyl sulfate-stable complex in the active, but not in the inactive, melanotrope cells, which correlated with the high and low proopiomelanocortin expression levels, respectively. In conclusion, we report on the biosynthesis of neuroserpin in a physiological context, and we find that the induction of neuroserpin expression and the formation of the 130-kDa neuroserpin-containing complex are linked to neuroendocrine cell activation.


Pro AED: The central issue in medical decision-making is risk-benefit assessment. Surgery of any type is still considered to be a major undertaking. To warrant these risks, the patient has a right to expect that they have a greater chance of a good outcome with an invasive therapy than with a non-invasive one. The main question is when, if ever, this becomes the case when comparing implantation of a VNS Therapy System versus adding an antiepileptic drug (AED)? After the first drug? The second? After all AEDs have failed? To date, no randomized trial comparing the addition of an AED against vagus nerve stimulation (VNS Therapy) has been undertaken, although several are currently being contemplated. Without this information, it is more difficult to make a case for early implementation of VNS Therapy. Unfortunately, few data are available regarding the potential for patients to become seizure-free after implantation of a VNS Therapy System. Another issue is side effects. It is important to remember that VNS Therapy also produces adverse events, albeit very different in character than those associated with AEDs, to which physicians have become accustomed. These include cough, dyspnea, pharyngitis, voice alteration and sleep apnea. A less frequently discussed, potentially negative consequence of VNS Therapy relates to the ability to obtain imaging of the patient. Patients who have undergone VNS Therapy System implantation are not candidates for imaging of the chest, breast, or abdomen. A second issue is that imaging of the brain can only be performed with MRI scanners that meet certain requirements, and as MRI technology develops, scanners meeting these requirements may become harder to find. However, to summarize, VNS Therapy is an excellent and useful treatment choice. Fortunately, the choice between AEDs and VNS Therapy is not an &quot;either/or&quot; decision. Each has a role in the treatment of patients with epilepsy, and the advantages and disadvantages of each should be kept in perspective. Pro VNS Therapy: VNS Therapy is no longer a new treatment for patients with refractory epilepsy. The first implant was performed in l988, and since then more than 30,000 patients have received this therapy. It is no longer considered an unusual or dangerous procedure, but it is still used almost exclusively for refractory epilepsy patients and it has not been generally accepted for use as a first line or even second line therapy. However, compared to the new AEDs, VNS Therapy has similar efficacy results in clinical trials and in many epilepsy syndromes and the long-term efficacy results are even more positive, with continued improvement in seizure reduction for up to two years. Two of the major reasons for not using VNS Therapy early are that it is a surgical procedure, and its safety during MRI procedures, especially with 3 Tesla, has not yet been elucidated. The safety profile of VNS Therapy is very favorable; the side effects being totally different from those seen with AEDs. The most important aspects are that there have been no pharmacological interactions, cognitive or sedative side effects reported, and it is safe for use in all age groups. Side effects are restricted to local irritation, hoarseness, coughing and, in a few cases, swallowing difficulties when the stimulator is on, but these tend to disappear with time. No idiosyncratic side effect has emerged during the 16 years of use. Compliance is guaranteed. The cost of the implantation of the VNS Therapy System, when spread out over 8 years (battery life), is actually less than the cost of using a new AED over an eight-year period, and real savings as regards hospital costs due to seizures can be expected.
We investigated the association of five intronic single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) at the estrogen receptor beta (ESR2) gene locus and the susceptibility of developing Alzheimer's disease (AD) in 387 subjects with clinically diagnosed probable AD and 467 cognitively normal individuals derived from eastern Finland. According to our results, variation in the ESR2 gene is associated with an increased risk of AD in women, whereas it does not contribute to the disease susceptibility in men. More specifically, in women, the allele T and the genotype T/T of two of the studied ESR2 gene SNPs (SNP2 and SNP3) were more frequent in AD women than in cognitively normal control women (P=0.012 and P=0.016, respectively). The ESR2 SNP2 T/T genotype and the SNP3 T/T genotype were associated with a significant, nearly two-fold increase in the risk of AD in women (OR=1.87, 95% CI=1.21-2.90), and remained significant after adjustment with the APOE genotype and age (OR=1.63, 95% CI, 1.00-1.68). The combined effect of the ESR2 SNP2 T/T or SNP3 T/T genotype and female gender increases the risk of the disease (OR=3.2, 95% CI=1.3-7.7). Consistent with these results, also the frequency of the haplotype containing the two above ESR2 gene risk alleles was elevated in AD women (P=0.027, OR=1.3, 95% CI=1.02-1.65). Results show that variation in ESR2 gene may be linked with increased AD susceptibility and furthermore, this association is gender specific.

Reductions in testosterone and luteinizing hormone levels and reduced sexual functions have been reported in Huntington's disease (HD) patients. Atrophy of the reproductive organs and loss of fertility have also been observed in the R6/2 mouse, which is currently the most studied transgenic model of HD. In an effort to define the cause of infertility we studied the expression of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) in the medial septum, diagonal band of Broca and hypothalamus of R6/2 male mice during sexual maturation. We found a progressive reduction in the numbers of GnRH-immunoreactive neurons in the analysed brain areas of R6/2 mice starting at 5 weeks of age and becoming statistically significant with only 10% of the neurons remaining by 9 weeks of age. Atrophy of testes and seminal vesicles combined with a significant reduction in serum and testicular testosterone levels were detected in 12-week-old R6/2mice. These results suggest that infertility in the R6/2 males is due either to death of GnRH neurons or to a reduction in GnRH expression leading to a downstream impairment of the gonadotropic hormones. Gonadotropic hormone replacement did not mitigate weight loss or restore motor function in R6/2 males.
Empirical evidence suggests impaired facial emotion recognition in schizophrenia. However, the nature of this deficit is the subject of ongoing research. The current study tested the hypothesis that a generalized deficit at an early stage of face-specific processing (i.e. putatively subserved by the fusiform gyrus) accounts for impaired facial emotion recognition in schizophrenia as opposed to the Negative Emotion-specific Deficit Model, which suggests impaired facial information processing at subsequent stages. Event-related potentials (ERPs) were recorded from 11 schizophrenia patients and 15 matched controls while performing a gender discrimination and a facial emotion recognition task. Significant reduction of the face-specific vertex positive potential (VPP) at a peak latency of 165 ms was confirmed in schizophrenia subjects whereas their early visual processing, as indexed by P1, was found to be intact. Attenuated VPP was found to correlate with subsequent P3 amplitude reduction and to predict accuracy when performing a facial emotion discrimination task. A subset of ten schizophrenia patients and ten matched healthy control subjects also performed similar tasks in the magnetic resonance imaging scanner. Patients showed reduced blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) activation in the fusiform, inferior frontal, middle temporal and middle occipital gyrus as well as in the amygdala. Correlation analyses revealed that VPP and the subsequent P 3a ERP components predict fusiform gyrus BOLD activation. These results suggest that problems in facial affect recognition in schizophrenia may represent flow-on effects of a generalized deficit in early visual processing.
Recent evidence suggests that N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-receptor mediated plasticity in hippocampus has a more subtle role in memory-based behaviours than originally thought. One idea is that NMDA-based plasticity is essential for the consolidation of post-training memory but not for the initial encoding or for short-term memory. To further test this idea we used a three-phase variant of the hidden goal water maze task. In the first phase, rats were pre-trained to an initial location. Next, intense, massed training was done in a 2-h interval to teach the rats to go to a new location after either an injection of the NMDA receptor antagonist (6)-3-(2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)propyl-1-phosphonic acid (CPP) or of vehicle. Finally, under drug-free conditions 24 h after new location training, a competition test was done between the original and new locations. We find that N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-receptor blockade has little or no effect on new location training. In contrast, when tested 24 h later, the strength of the trace for the new location learned during NMDA-receptor blockade was much weaker compared with the trace for the new location learned after saline injection. Further experiments showed similar effects when NMDA-receptors were blocked immediately after the new location training, suggesting that this is a memory consolidation effect. Our results therefore reinforce the notion that hippocampal NMDA-receptors participate in post-training memory consolidation but are not essential for the processes necessary to learn or retain navigational information in the short term.
Stress and stress hormones affect a variety of behaviors and cognitive abilities. The influences of stress and glucocorticoids on motor function, however, have not been characterized although the presence of glucocorticoid receptors in the motor system has been documented. Here we demonstrate that stress and the stress hormone corticosterone influence motor system function in rats. Groups of adult female Long-Evans rats underwent either a daily stress-inducing procedure (immobilization or swimming in cold water) or oral corticosterone treatment. While these treatments continued, animals were tested in skilled reaching and skilled walking tasks for a period of 2 weeks. Both acute (day 1) and chronic (day 14) stress and corticosterone treatment reduced skilled movement accuracy in reaching and walking and increased performance speed. Furthermore, both chronic stress and chronic corticosterone treatment altered skilled movement patterns in the reaching task. These findings indicate that stress modulates motor system function and that these effects are partially mediated by glucocorticoids. To examine whether stress-induced changes might also derive from enhanced emotionality, rats were treated with the benzodiazepine diazepam. Based on an inverted U-shaped dose-response relationship, a moderate dose of diazepam significantly improved reaching success while at the same time reducing corticosterone levels. Thus, stress-associated emotional responses such as anxiety might account for diminished movement accuracy. These results suggest that stress affects the motor system both directly via hormonal changes and indirectly via changes in emotionality. These findings are discussed with respect to the role of stress in motor system function and movement disorders.
Voltage-gated K(+) channel alpha subunits Kv 4.2 and Kv 4.3 are the major contributors of somatodendritic A-type K(+) currents in many CNS neurons. A recent hypothesis suggests that Kv 4 subunits may be involved in pain modulation in dorsal horn neurons. However, whether Kv 4 subunits are expressed in dorsal horn neurons remains unknown. Using immunohistochemistry, we found that Kv 4.2 and Kv 4.3 immunoreactivity was concentrated in the superficial dorsal horn, mainly in lamina II. Both Kv 4.2 and Kv 4.3 appeared on many rostrocaudally orientated dendrites, whereas Kv 4.3 could be also detected from certain neuronal somata. Kv 4.3(+) neurons were a subset of excitatory inerneurons with calretinin(+)/calbindin(-)/PKCgamma(-) markers, and a fraction of them expressed micro-opioid receptors. Kv 4.3(+) neurons also expressed ERK 2 and mGluR 5, which are molecules related to the induction of central sensitization, a mechanism mediating nociceptive plasticity. Together with the expression of Kv 4.3 in VR 1(+) DRG neurons, our data suggest that Kv C4 subunits could be involved in pain modulation.
High-frequency, repetitive, auditory stimulation was used to determine whether induction of a long-lasting increase of the human auditory evoked potential (AEP) was possible. Recording non-invasively with electroencephalogram scalp electrodes, stable increases in amplitude were observed in the N1 component of the AEP, which is thought to reflect activity within auditory cortex (N1). The increase was maintained over an hour and was shown to be independent of alterations in the state of arousal. This is the first demonstration of the induction of long-lasting plastic changes in AEPs, and suggest that this represents the first direct demonstration of long-term potentiation in the auditory cortex of normal, intact humans.
In spite of a growing understanding of the actions of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) in the prefrontal cortex, the specific cellular mechanism used by 5-HT in this region remains poorly understood. Previous studies have shown that 5-HT inhibits the after hyper-polarization that follows a burst of spikes in pyramidal neurons. In the present study, we have used whole cell recordings in rat and mouse brain slices to re-examine this phenomenon with special emphasis on identifying the 5-HT receptor subtypes mediating this effect. Layer V pyramidal neurons display complex after hyper-polarizations that are mediated predominantly by calcium-activated potassium channels and involve two distinct currents known as medium after hyper-polarizating current and slow after hyper-polarizating current (I(sAHP)). Administration of 5-HT reduced the current underlying these after hyper-polarizations by selectively inhibiting I(sAHP). Pharmacological analysis of this response indicates that the main receptor responsible for this inhibition belongs to the 5-HT(2A) subtype. Thus, alpha-methyl-5-HT and 2,5-dimethoxy-4-bromoamphetamine (DOB) mimic the effect of 5-HT and the effect of these agonists is blocked by MDL 100 907. Similarly, administration of alpha-methyl-5-HT is without effect in slices derived from 5-HT(2A) receptor knockout mice. However, 5-HT(2A) receptor blockade only partially suppressed the ability of 5-HT to inhibit I(sAHP). This suggests the involvement of at least one more receptor subtype in this response. Consistent with this idea, administration of 5-carboxyamido-tryptamine, an agonist exhibiting no detectable affinity for 5-HT(2A) receptors, was also capable of suppressing I(sAHP). These results identify 5-HT(2A) receptors as being primarily involved in mediating the 5-HT-induced inhibition of I(sAHP) in prefrontal cortex, while also recognizing a contribution by an additional 5-HT receptor subtype.
Cell replacement after neuronal degeneration in the adult CNS depends on the availability of specific cues to direct specification, differentiation and integration of newly born neurons into mature circuits. Following recent reports indicating that neurogenic signals may be reactivated in the adult injured CNS, here we asked whether such signals are expressed in the cerebellum after Purkinje cell degeneration. Thus, we compared the fate of embryonic cerebellar cells transplanted to the cerebella of adult wild-type and Purkinje cell degeneration (pcd) mutant mice. Donor cells were dissected from beta-actin-enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) transgenic mice and transplanted as a single cell suspension. In both hosts, grafted cells generated all major cerebellar phenotypes, with a precise localization in the recipient cortex or white matter. Nevertheless, the phenotypic distributions showed striking quantitative differences. Most notably, in the pcd cerebellum there was a higher amount of Purkinje cells, while other phenotypes were less frequent. Analysis of cell proliferation by 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrDU) incorporation revealed that in both hosts mitotic activity was strongly reduced shortly after transplantation, and virtually all donor Purkinje cells were actually generated before grafting. Together, these results indicate that some compensatory mechanisms operate in the pcd environment. However, the very low mitotic rate of transplanted cells suggests that the adult cerebellum, either wild-type or mutant, does not provide instructive neurogenic cues to direct the specification of uncommitted progenitors. Rather, specific replacement in mutant hosts is achieved through selective mechanisms that favour the survival and integration of donor Purkinje cells at the expense of other phenotypes.

The clustering of signaling molecules at specialized cellular sites allows cells to effectively convert extracellular signals into intracellular signals and to produce a concerted functional output with specific temporal and spatial patterns. A prime example for these molecules and their effects on cellular signaling are the postsynaptic density proteins of the central nervous system. Recently, one group of these proteins, the Vesl/Homer protein family has received increased attention because of its unique molecular properties that allow both the clustering and functional modulation of a plethora of different binding proteins. Within multiprotein signaling complexes, Vesl/Homer proteins influence proteins as diverse as metabotropic glutamate receptors; transient receptor potential channels; intra-cellular calcium channels; the scaffolding protein, Shank; small GTPases; transcription factors; and cytoskeletal proteins. Furthermore, interaction with such functionally relevant proteins also links Vesl/Homer proteins indirectly to an even larger group of cellular effector proteins, putting the Vesl/Homer proteins at the crossroads of several critical intracellular signaling processes. In addition to the initial reports of Vesl/Homer protein expression in the central nervous system, members of this protein family have now been identified in other excitable cells in various muscle types and in a large number of nonexcitable cells. The widespread expression of Vesl/Homer proteins in different organs and their functional importance in cellular protein signaling complexes is further evidenced by their conservation in organisms from Drosophila to humans.
Substantia nigra dopamine neuronal activity in the primate is thought to be related to the error in predicting reward delivery. Dopamine release in rat nucleus accumbens has been shown to increase in relation to drug/food-seeking behaviour. It is not known how the release of dopamine in the striatum corresponds to the many distinct steps of a rewarded, cued task (e.g. recognizing the cue, executing the behaviour, anticipating the reward, receiving the reward) and how dopamine release then changes over time as task performance improves. To investigate dopamine release during a rewarded, cued task and the development of changes in dopamine release over time, changes in extracellular striatal dopamine concentration during a rewarded, cued lever-press task were measured a few days every week for 5 months using high-speed in vivo voltammetry. Rats were trained to press a lever after a tone to obtain a food reward. The reaction time for the lever press decreased gradually as training continued. Changes in dopamine concentration were measured in the anterior striatum (ventral portion) during the task performance after an initial 6-day familiarization period, in which the animals learned that a lever press yielded food, and a 5-week period for surgery, recovery, and electrode preparation. During the task performance, dopamine concentration started to increase just after the cue, peaked near the time of the lever press, and returned to basal levels 1-2 s after the lever press. This pattern of changes in dopamine concentration was observed over the 5 months of testing, the peak dopamine concentration increasing steadily until peaking at week 7, at which time the task performance had not yet improved significantly from week 2. By week 13, task performance had significantly improved and peak dopamine concentration had begun to subside. Thus, the increase in dopamine concentration after the cue was highest while the task was not yet perfected and subsided toward the end of the learning process. It was concluded that striatal dopamine release during a cued lever-press task is relevant to the novelty of the conditions.
We investigated whether pointing movements made with the torso would adapt to movement-contingent augmentation or attenuation of their spatial amplitude. The pointing task required subjects standing on a platform in the dark to orient the mid-sagittal plane of their torso to the remembered locations of just extinguished platform-fixed visual targets without moving their feet. Subjects alternated pointing at two chest-high targets, 60 degrees apart, (1) in a baseline period with the stance platform stationary, (2) during exposure to concomitant contra or ipsiversive platform rotations that grew incrementally to 50% of the velocity of torso rotation, and (3) after return in one step to stationary platform conditions. The velocity and amplitude of torso movements relative to space decreased 25-50% during exposure to contraversive platform rotations and increased 20-50% during ipsiversive rotations. Torso rotation kinematics relative to the platform (as well as the platform-fixed targets and feet) remained virtually constant throughout the incremental exposure period. Subjects were unaware of the altered motion of their body in space imposed by the platform and did not perceive their motor adjustments. Upon return to stationary conditions, torso rotation movements were smaller and slower following adaptation to contraversive rotations and larger and faster after ipsiversive platform rotations. These results indicate a rapid sensory-motor recalibration to the altered relationship between spatial (inertial) torso motion and intended torso motion relative to the feet, and rapid re-adaptation to normal conditions. The adaptive system producing such robust torso regulation provides a critical basis for control of arm, head, and eye movements.
Geometry dictates that when subjects view a near target during head rotation the eyes must rotate more than the head. The relative contribution to this compensatory response by adjustment of the vestibulo-ocular reflex gain (Gvor), visual tracking mechanisms including prediction, and convergence is debated. We studied horizontal eye movements induced by sinusoidal 0.2-2.8 Hz, en-bloc yaw rotation as ten normal humans viewed a near target that was either earth-fixed (EFT) or head-fixed (HFT). For EFT, group median gain was 1.49 at 0.2 Hz declining to 1.08 at 2.8 Hz. For HFT, group median gain was 0.03 at 0.2 Hz increasing to 0.71 at 2.8 Hz. By applying transient head perturbations (peak acceleration &gt;1,000 degrees s(-2)) during sinusoidal rotation, we determined that Gvor was similar during either EFT or HFT conditions, and contributed only approximately 75% to the compensatory response. We confirmed that retinal image slip contributed to the compensatory response by demonstrating reduced gain during EFT viewing under strobe illumination. Gain also declined during sum-of-sines head rotations, confirming the contribution of predictive mechanisms. The gain of compensatory eye movements was similar during monocular or binocular viewing, although vergence angle was greater during binocular viewing. Comparison with previous studies indicates that mechanisms for generation of eye rotations during near viewing depend on head stimulus type (rotation or translation), waveform (transient or sinusoidal), and the species being tested.
We tested the hypothesis that speed cues are used to haptically identify changes in the curvature of the hand's trajectory. Subjects grasped the handle of a robotically-controlled manipulandum that was moved in the horizontal plane along various elliptical arcs following one of three different speed profiles. In one profile, a circular arc was traced at a constant speed whereas in the other two speed was constant for ellipses whose aspect ratios differed from unity. A two-alternative forced choice procedure was used to identify the ellipse that was sensed to be circular in each of the three experimental conditions. In unconstrained movements, speed varies with the radius of curvature. If speed cues are used to identify curvature during passive movements, one would expect that subjects' responses should be biased towards the ellipse traced at a constant speed. The results did not support this hypothesis, indicating that speed cues are not a major contributor in the haptic sensing of shape.
Apoptosis plays an important role in neuronal cell death in both chronic and acute human neurodegenerative diseases, including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Huntington's disease, cerebral ischemia, and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) encephalopathy. We evaluated the ability of the extracellular binding domain of a dimeric tumor necrosis factor receptor (p75TNFR) to prevent neurotoxicity and death of human fetal cerebral neurons that were exposed in vitro to toxic agents known to be implicated in human neurological disorders, including tumor necrosis factor (TNFalpha) and the HIV proteins Tat and gp120. The extracellular domain of p75TNFR is capable of binding and neutralizing both soluble and transmembrane-anchored TNFalpha. We efficiently transduced human neurons using adenoviral vectors expressing p75TNFR (Ad.p75TNFR) or a control gene (lacZ). Treatment of control cultures with the toxic agents TNFalpha, TNFalpha plus actinomycin D, or Tat and gp120, induced neurotoxic alterations and apoptotic death of neurons. By contrast, transduction of neurons with Ad.p75TNFR prevented apoptosis and cell death due to these agents. We conclude that viral vector transfer of the p75TNFR gene efficiently protects human neurons from TNFalpha-, Tat- or gp120-induced apoptosis and cell death. These results suggest that p75TNFR transduction of neurons by viral vectors could be therapeutically useful in the treatment of many human neurodegenerative diseases.
Of the glutamate receptor types, the metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) are G proteins coupled and can initiate a number of intracellular pathways leading to hyperexcitability of spinal neurons. In this study, we tested the expression of mGluRs to determine which cell types might contribute to sustained neuronal hyperexcitability in the lumbar enlargement with postoperative day (POD) 7 (early), 14 (late), and 30 (chronic phase) following spinal cord injury (SCI) by unilateral hemisection at T13 in Sprague-Dawley rats. Expression was determined by confocal analyses of immunocytochemical reaction product of neurons (NeuN positive) and astrocytes (GFAP positive) in the dorsal horn on both sides of the L4 segment. Neurons were divided into two sizes: small (&lt;20 microm) and large (&gt;35 microm), for physiological reasons. We report a significant increase of mGluR(1) expression in large and small neurons of the dorsal horn on both sides of the cord in late and chronic phases when compared to control sham groups. Expression of mGluR(2/3) significantly increased in large neurons on the ipsilateral (hemisected) side in the late phase. Expression of mGluR(5) significantly increased in large neurons in early, late, and chronic phases. In addition, mGluR(1) and mGluR(5) expression after hemisection was significantly increased in astrocytes in early, late, and chronic phases; whereas mGluR(2/3) did not display any significant changes. In conclusion, our data demonstrate long-term changes in expression levels of Group I mGluRs (mGluR(1) and mGluR(5)) in both neurons and astrocytes in segments below a unilateral SCI. Thus, permanent alterations in dorsal horn receptor expression may play important roles in transmission of nociceptive responses in the spinal cord following SCI.
Recent findings in adult rodents have provided evidence for the formation of new striatal neurons from subventricular zone (SVZ) precursors following stroke. Little is known about which factors determine the magnitude of striatal neurogenesis in the damaged brain. Here we studied striatal neurogenesis following an excitotoxic lesion to the adult rat striatum induced by intrastriatal quinolinic acid (QA) infusion. New cells were labeled with the thymidine-analogue 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) and their identity was determined immunocytochemically with various phenotypic markers. The unilateral lesion gave rise to increased cell proliferation mainly in the ipsilateral SVZ. At 2 weeks following the insult, there was a pronounced increase of the number of new neurons co-expressing BrdU and a marker of migrating neuroblasts, doublecortin, in the ipsilateral striatum, particularly its non-damaged medial parts. About 80% of the new neurons survived up to 6 weeks, when they expressed the mature neuronal marker NeuN and were preferentially located in the outer parts of the damaged area. Lesion-generated neurons expressed phenotypic markers of striatal medium spiny neurons (DARPP-32) and interneurons (parvalbumin or neuropeptide Y). The magnitude of neurogenesis correlated to the size of the striatal damage. Our data show for the first time that an excitotoxic lesion to the striatum can trigger the formation of new striatal neurons with phenotypes of both projection neurons and interneurons.
Depression is an important complication of stroke. Although antidepressants are widely used for the treatment of poststroke depression (PSD), prescription is critically influenced by their safety, tolerability and by the impact on co-morbidities. The authors reviewed the literature on the use of antidepressants after stroke. Selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitors are effective and have a good profile of safety and tolerability in PSD. They are, therefore, used as first-line drugs in the treatment of PSD, although potential cardiovascular and cerebrovascular effects, drug-drug interactions and intolerability in a minority of patients have to be considered. Other antidepressants appear to be safe and effective in selected patients. PSD patients should be classified according to their clinical profile for the selection of the drug of choice in particular sub-groups of patients.
Early diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease is important in initiating symptomatic treatment with acetylcholine esterase inhibitors, and will be of even greater significance if drugs with a potential to slow down the degenerative process, such as beta-secretase inhibitors and beta-amyloid vaccination, prove to have a clinical effect. During the last decade, research efforts have focused on developing cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease. In this review, the background and principles for, and the diagnostic performance of, the CSF biomarkers total tau, phosphorylated tau and the 42-amino acid form of beta-amyloid, are reviewed. New candidate CSF biomarkers and new strategies, including multiparameter immunoassays and CSF proteomics techniques, in the search of additional CSF biomarkers are also reviewed. Finally, the rationale for the use of CSF biomarkers to identify and monitor the biochemical effect of new drug candidates is reviewed.

Aquaporins are a family of water channels found in animals, plants, and microorganisms. A subfamily of aquaporins, the aquaglyceroporins, are permeable for water as well as certain solutes such as glycerol, lactate, and urea. Here we show that the brain contains two isoforms of AQP9--an aquaglyceroporin with a particularly broad substrate specificity--and that the more prevalent of these isoforms is expressed in brain mitochondria. The mitochondrial AQP9 isoform is detected as an approximately 25 kDa band in immunoblots. This isoform is likely to correspond to a new AQP9 mRNA that is obtained by alternative splicing and has a shorter ORF than the liver isoform. Subfractionation experiments and high-resolution immunogold analyses revealed that this novel AQP9 isoform is enriched in mitochondrial inner membranes. AQP9 immunopositive mitochondria occurred in astrocytes throughout the brain and in a subpopulation of neurons in the substantia nigra, ventral tegmental area, and arcuate nucleus. In the latter structures, the AQP9 immunopositive mitochondria were located in neurons that were also immunopositive for tyrosine hydroxylase, as demonstrated by double labeling immunogold electron microscopy. Our findings suggest that mitochondrial AQP9 is a hallmark of astrocytes and midbrain dopaminergic neurons. In physiological conditions, the flux of lactate and other metabolites through AQP9 may confer an advantage by allowing the mitochondria to adjust to the metabolic status of the extramitochondrial cytoplasm. We hypothesize that the complement of mitochondrial AQP9 in dopaminergic neurons may relate to the vulnerability of these neurons in Parkinson's disease.
Transcription from multiple promoters along with alternative mRNA splicing constitutes the basis for cell-specific gene expression and mRNA and protein diversity. The prodynorphin gene (PDYN) gives rise to prodynorphin (PDYN), precursor to dynorphin opioid peptides that regulate diverse physiological functions and are implicated in various neuropsychiatric disorders. Here, we characterized PDYN transcripts and proteins in the adult human brain and studied PDYN processing and intracellular localization in model cell lines. Seven PDYN mRNAs were identified in the human brain; two of the transcripts, FL1 and FL2, encode the full-length PDYN. The dominant, FL1 transcript shows high expression in limbic-related structures such as the nucleus accumbens and amygdala. The second, FL2 transcript is only expressed in few brain structures such as the claustrum and hypothalamus. FL-PDYN was identified for the first time in the brain as the dominant PDYN protein product. Three novel PDYNs expressed from spliced or truncated PDYN transcripts either lack a central segment but are still processed into dynorphins, or are translated into N-terminally truncated proteins. One truncated PDYN is located in the cell nucleus, suggesting a novel nonopioid function for this protein. The complexity of PDYN expression and diversity of its protein products may be relevant for diverse levels of plasticity in adaptive responses for the dynorphin system.
Gap-junctional channels (connexin oligomers) are large-diameter aqueous pores formed by head-to-head association of two gap-junctional hemichannels, one from each of the adjacent cells. Profound hearing loss of genetic origin is common, and mutations of connexin 26 (Cx26) are the most frequent cause of this disorder. The Cx26 R75W mutant has been associated with disruption of cell-to-cell communication and profound hearing loss, but the mechanism of the gap-junctional defect is unknown. Here, we show that Cx26 R75W forms gap-junctional hemichannels that display altered voltage dependency and reduced permeability, and which cannot form functional gap-junctional channels between neighboring cells. The R75W phenotype is dominant at the gap-junction channel but not at the hemichannel level. Therefore, the absence of gap-junctional communication caused by R75W expression is due to defective gap-junction formation by functional hemichannels.


Dietary inorganic nitrate is secreted in saliva and reduced to nitrite by bacterial flora. At the acidic pH of the stomach nitrite is present as nitrous acid in equilibrium with nitric oxide (*NO), and other nitrogen oxides with nitrating and nitrosating activity. *NO in the stomach exerts several beneficial effects, but nitrosating/nitrating species have been implicated as a possible cause of epithelial neoplasia at the gastroesophageal junction. We investigated the effects of apple extracts on *NO release by human saliva at pH 2. A water extract obtained from apple homogenate increased *NO release caused by acidification of saliva. Data show that polyphenols were responsible for this activity, with chlorogenic acid and (+)-catechin the most active and concentrated species. However, ferulic acid, a hydroxycinnamic acid with only one aromatic hydroxyl group, did not increase *NO release. Fructose, the most representative sugar in apples, was also inactive. Interestingly, ascorbic acid in saliva induced a SCN(-)-enhanced burst of *NO but, unlike apple, the release was transient. The simultaneous addition of ascorbic acid and apple extract caused a burst of *NO followed by the increased steady-state level characteristic of saliva containing apple extract. Chlorogenic acid and (+)-catechin, but not ferulic acid, formed o-semiquinone radicals and nitrated polyphenols, suggesting the scavenging of *NO(2) by o-semiquinones. Our results propose that some apple polyphenols not only inhibit nitrosation/nitration but also promote *NO bio-availabilty at the gastric level, a previously unappreciated function.
This study evaluated the hypothesis that the repertoire of cellular events that underlie circulatory fatality during endotoxemia may entail mitochondrial respiratory enzyme dysfunction, followed by the release of cytochrome c to the cytosol that triggers the activation of caspase cascades, leading to apoptotic cell death in the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM) where sympathetic premotor neurons responsible for maintaining vasomotor tone are located. In adult Sprague-Dawley rats maintained under propofol anesthesia, nucleosomal DNA fragmentation was detected in the RVLM in a temporal profile that coincided positively with the progression of cardiovascular depression during experimental endotoxemia induced by Escherichia coli lipopolysaccharide (LPS). LPS also induced nitric oxide (NO) and superoxide (O(2)(-)) production, depressed mitochondrial Complex I and IV activity, promoted the release of cytochrome c from mitochondria to cytosol, upregulated the cytosolic expression of activated caspase-9 and -3, or increased caspase-3 enzyme activity in the RVLM. Microinjection bilaterally into the RVLM of an inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) blocker, S-methylisothiourea, or a superoxide dismutase mimetic, Tempol, significantly blunted these apoptotic cellular events and antagonized the cardiovascular depression during endotoxemia. We conclude that caspase-dependent apoptotic cell death that results from NO- and O(2)(-)-associated mitochondrial signaling in the RVLM may underlie fatal cardiovascular depression during endotoxemia.
It has been described that &quot;typical&quot; antipsychotic drugs (APDs) induce characteristic within-session response decrements in operant behaviors, including intracranial self-stimulation (ICSS). In contrast, recent reports have shown that in food operant behavior, clozapine and a number of &quot;atypical&quot; APDs do not give rise to within-session effects. However, to elucidate whether or not this is a common property of atypical APDs, their effects on other operant models need to be studied. To address this question we investigated the temporal pattern of ICSS responding, after systemic administration of five atypical APDs and the typical antipsychotic, haloperidol. Rats were trained to lever press for electrical stimulation at the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), and response rates were recorded during each 3-min period of the 15-min session. Significant within-session response decrements on mPFC ICSS were observed with haloperidol, risperidone, sertindole and olanzapine but not with clozapine or ziprasidone. The magnitude of within-session decline produced by the APDs tested was positively correlated with their affinity for dopamine D2 receptors. The results show for the first time that atypical APDs are capable to induce within-session decrements on ICSS behavior, and suggest that this particular temporal pattern of responding is not exclusively characteristic of typical APDs. The results are also consistent with the hypothesis that the ability of APDs to induce greater within-session effects may be related, in part, to potent D2 antagonism.
Thanks to deep tissue penetration of infrared light (IR), two-photon laser scanning microscopy (2PLSM) has become an important tool in modern neuroscience. Examples range from the high-resolution visualization of dendritic spines in single neurons to the monitoring of intracellular Ca++ transients in small neural networks. In the present review we give an overview of the current achievements and discuss emerging applications of the technique.
Brain sexual differentiation in mammals requires activity of gonadal hormones; organizational effects of these steroids on brain development occur early in life while activational ones in adulthood ensure appropriate and timely sex-specific behaviors. This traditional view has long served as a reliable model for sexual differentiation of reproductively relevant brain structures. Here, we take a fresh look at this model but refocused in the context of sexual differentiation of non-reproductive parameters and with an emphasis on the hippocampus, a telencephalic brain structure predominantly involved in cognition and stress regulation. We explore sex differences in morphology, neurochemistry, and hippocampal-dependent behaviors to propose a new prototype that can be used to explain and further investigate the effects of steroid hormones, those synthesized gonadally or intracerebrally, on hippocampal development and function. We also propose that a new vernacular be employed, one that distinguishes hormonally modulated responses from sex differences, and argue these are mechanistically and functionally distinct. Understanding when and how the sexes are different is as important as understanding when and how they are the same, at the biological, social, and cultural level.
Estrogen treatment during middle-age postpones memory impairments, which depend on the hippocampus. However, estrogen responsiveness diminishes with advanced age. The challenge remains to determine, which processes are important for delaying brain aging and the mechanisms for decreased sensitivity. Estrogen can influence transcription through estrogen receptors (e.g., ERalpha and ERbeta) and membrane effects on rapid signal transduction cascades ultimately influencing the phosphorylation state of transcription factors. In middle-aged animals, the membrane effects involve Ca2+ and G-protein cascades, which rapidly counteract senescent physiology. Moreover, estrogen induces transcription for elements of signal transduction cascades that decline with age. Together, the rapid and genomic influences promote synaptic transmission and cell growth. Thus, interruption of genomic/membrane interactions due to loss of ERs, disruption of the hormone cycle, or uncoupling of the hormone/receptor system associated with extended exposure to estrogen could contribute to a decline in these biological pathways during aging.

Synaptic trafficking of AMPA-Rs, controlled by small GTPase Ras signaling, plays a key role in synaptic plasticity. However, how Ras signals synaptic AMPA-R trafficking is unknown. Here we show that low levels of Ras activity stimulate extracellular signal-regulated kinase kinase (MEK)-p42/44 MAPK (extracellular signal-regulated kinase [ERK]) signaling, whereas high levels of Ras activity stimulate additional Pi3 kinase (Pi3K)-protein kinase B (PKB) signaling, each accounting for approximately 50% of the potentiation during long-term potentiation (LTP). Spontaneous neural activity stimulates the Ras-MEK-ERK pathway that drives GluR2L into synapses. In the presence of neuromodulator agonists, neural activity also stimulates the Ras-Pi3K-PKB pathway that drives GluR1 into synapses. Neuromodulator release increases with increases of vigilance. Correspondingly, Ras-MEK-ERK activity in sleeping animals is sufficient to deliver GluR2L into synapses, while additional increased Ras-Pi3K-PKB activity in awake animals delivers GluR1 into synapses. Thus, state-dependent Ras signaling, which specifies downstream MEK-ERK and Pi3K-PKB pathways, differentially control GluR2L- and GluR1-dependent synaptic plasticity.
Sensory and supporting cells of the mammalian organ of Corti have cytoskeletons containing beta- and gamma-actin isoforms which have been described as having differing intracellular distributions in chick cochlear hair cells. Here, we have used post-embedding immunogold labelling for beta- and gamma-actin to investigate semiquantitatively how they are distributed in the guinea-pig cochlea and to compare different frequency locations. Amounts of beta-actin decrease and gamma-actin increase in the order, outer pillar cells, inner pillar cells, Deiters' cells and hair cells. There is also more beta-actin and less gamma-actin in outer pillar cells in higher than lower frequency regions. In hair cells, beta-actin is present in the cuticular plate but is more concentrated in the stereocilia, especially in the rootlets and towards the periphery of their shafts; labelling densities for gamma-actin differ less between these locations and it is the predominant isoform of the hair-cell lateral wall. Alignments of immunogold particles suggest beta-actin and gamma-actin form homomeric filaments. These data confirm differential distribution of these actin isoforms in the mammalian cochlea and reveal systematic differences between sensory and supporting cells. Increased expression of beta-actin in outer pillar cells towards the cochlear base may contribute to the greater stiffness of this region.
The mechanisms underlying the unequivocal association between ionizing radiation and the development of leukaemia remain unknown. Recent progress in defining sub-cellular events has contributed to our understanding of the production of genetic lesions in irradiated cells but the importance of tissue effects in response to radiation damage has attracted much less attention. Thus, genetic lesions induced by radiation are considered to result from the deposition of energy in the cell nucleus and the initiating lesion for radiation-induced transformation has been similarly attributed to direct DNA damage. Recently, however, there have been many reports of radiation effects, characteristically associated with the consequences of energy deposition in the cell nucleus, arising in non-irradiated cells as a consequence of communication with irradiated cells. These, so-called, non-targeted radiation effects pose major challenges to current views of the mechanisms of radiation-induced DNA damage and the mechanisms underlying radiogenic malignancies. Considered together with data obtained from laboratory model systems, a rather complex picture of radiation leukaemogenesis is emerging in which, additional to any damage induced directly in target stem cells, the haemopoietic microenvironment can be a source of damaging signals and cellular interactions make important genotype-dependent contributions to determining overall outcome after radiation exposures.
Recent neuroimaging studies have lead to the proposal that rest is characterized by an organized, baseline level of activity, a default mode of brain function that is suspended during specific goal-oriented mental activity. Previous studies have shown that the primary function subserved by the default mode is that of an introspectively oriented, self-referential mode of mental activity. The default mode of brain function hypothesis is readdressed from the perspective of the presence of low-frequency blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) signal changes (0.012-0.1 Hz) in the resting brain. The results show that the brain during rest is not tonically active in a single mode of brain function. Rather, the findings presented here suggest that the brain recurrently toggles between an introspectively oriented mode (default mode) and a state-of-mind that tentatively might be interpreted as an extrospectively oriented mode that involves a readiness and alertness to changes in the external and internal environment.


Corticosterone levels in blood may be used as a marker of stress in rodents, provided that the blood sampling procedure itself is non-stressful. Automated blood sampling equipment (Accusampler) allows blood sampling without any interference with the animal and might be useful as a tool for an on-line measurement of stress markers in blood. However, the impact of the blood sampling itself on the corticosterone levels in blood is unknown. The present study was designed to evaluate whether the frequency of blood sampling influences the plasma corticosterone levels in male and female rats. During anaesthesia, a catheter was placed in the jugular vein and attached to an Accusampler. Blood samples (200 microl) were withdrawn with a high (24 samples) or low frequency (3 samples) during a six-hour period immediately after the catheter insertion. The corticosterone levels in the plasma were quantified with ELISA. The corticosterone levels persisted at high post-operation concentrations when blood was collected frequently, while the levels steadily declined significantly during low-frequency sampling. The corticosterone levels were higher in female than in male rats, but the curves were similar. The present study elucidates the importance of considering the frequency of blood withdrawal during automated blood sampling. This parameter may have an impact on the experimental results when using blood corticosterone levels as a stress marker, but also during any in vivo study where blood is collected, since high corticosterone levels may affect the normal physiology of the animals.
A common trait of antidepressant drugs, electroconvulsive treatment and physical exercise is that they relieve depression and up-regulate neurotrophic factors as well as cell proliferation and neurogenesis in the hippocampus. In order to identify possible biological underpinnings of depression and the antidepressant effect of running, we analysed cell proliferation, the level of the neurotrophic factor BDNF in hippocampus and dynorphin in striatum/accumbens in 'depressed' Flinders Sensitive Line rats (FSL) and Flinders Resistant Line (FRL) rats with and without access to running-wheels. The FRL strain exhibited a higher daily running activity than the FSL strain. Wheel-running had an antidepressant effect in the 'depressed' FSL rats, as indicated by the forced swim test. In the hippocampus, cell proliferation was lower in the 'depressed' rats compared to the control FRL rats but there was no difference in BDNF or dynorphin levels in striatum/accumbens. After 5 wk of running, cell proliferation increased in FSL but not in FRL rats. BDNF and dynorphin mRNA levels were increased in FRL but not to the same extent in the in FSL rats; thus, increased BDNF and dynorphin levels were correlated to the running activity but not to the antidepressant effect of running. The only parameter that was associated to basal level of 'depression' and to the antidepressant effect was cell proliferation in the hippocampus. Thus, suppression of cell proliferation in the hippocampus could constitute one of the mechanisms that underlie depression, and physical activity might be an efficient antidepressant.
Mirtazapine is a widely used antidepressant and the aim of this study was to further investigate its antidepressant activity in rats. Thus, the efficacy of long-term mirtazapine treatment was assessed in three models of depressive symptoms induced by stress exposure: the acute escape deficit, the chronic escape deficit, and the stress-induced disruption of the acquisition of an appetitive behaviour sustained by a palatable food (vanilla sugar). Administration of mirtazapine for 2 wk prevented the escape deficit development induced by acute exposure to unavoidable stress. This protective effect was antagonized by the administration of a beta-adrenergic or a 5-HT1A receptor antagonist just before stress exposure; that is, mirtazapine effect was dependent on functional beta-adrenergic and 5-HT1A receptor systems. Repeated stress exposure indefinitely prolongs the condition of escape deficit and a 40-d mirtazapine treatment reversed this model of chronic escape deficit. In a Y-maze satiated rats learn to choose the arm baited with vanilla sugar, and exposure to stress during Y-maze training prevents this learning. Repeated mirtazapine administration completely antagonized the disrupting effect of chronic stress on the acquisition of this instrumental behaviour. We consider these effects to be crucial in the definition of antidepressant activity.





Our purpose in this study was to determine whether across-frequency binaural interference would occur if ITD-based extents of laterality were measured using high-frequency transposed stimuli as targets. The results of an earlier study [L. R. Bernstein and C. Trahiotis, J. Acoust. Soc. Am. 116, 3062-3069 (2004)], which focused on threshold-ITDs, rather than extents of laterality, suggested that high-frequency transposed stimuli might be &quot;immune&quot; to binaural interference effects resulting from the addition of a spectrally remote, low-frequency interferer. In contrast to the earlier findings, the data from this study indicate that high-frequency transposed targets are susceptible to binaural interference. Nevertheless, high-frequency transposed targets, even when presented along with an interferer, yielded greater extents of ITD-based laterality than did high-frequency Gaussian noise targets presented in isolation. That is, the &quot;enhanced potency&quot; of ITDs conveyed by transposed stimuli persisted, even in the presence of a low-frequency interferer. Predictions made using an extension of the model of Heller and Trahiotis [L. M. Heller and C. Trahiotis, J. Acoust. Soc. Am. 99, 3632-3637 (1996)] accounted well for across-frequency binaural interference obtained with conventional Gaussian noise targets but, in all but one case, overpredicted the amounts of interference found with the transposed targets.
Protein phosphatase 2B (calcineurin) activity has been shown to be decreased in Alzheimer's disease and is a possible mechanism(s) for the hyperphosphorylation of tau and subsequent neurofibrillary tangle formation. Recently, mRNA expression of Down's syndrome Critical Region 1 gene, which encodes the protein calcipressin (an endogenous inhibitor of calcineurin), was found to be upregulated in both Down's syndrome and Alzheimer's disease. Calcipressin is induced by oxidative stress and Abeta in vitro, further establishing a link in the pathology of both diseases. Using immunohistochemistry techniques, calcipressin protein expression in the pyramidal neurons of the temporal lobe was shown to increase with aging (r2=0.5658; p=0.0313), and also in moderate to severe Alzheimer's disease compared to control patients (t=3.872; p=0.0017). In addition, there was a positive correlation between the total number of calcipressin-positive pyramidal neurons and the number of neurofibrillary tangles in the temporal cortex (r2= 0.5955; p=0.0249). As there was an 88% increase in nuclear calcipressin in Alzheimer's disease (p=0.0001), the relationship between cellular localization of calcipressin and neurofibrillary tangle formation was investigated, which revealed a decrease in neurofibrillary tangle-bearing neurons that contain nuclear calcipressin (t=4.874; p=0.0028) and further demonstrates that the cellular regulation of calcipressin is altered in Alzheimer's disease.
Neuronal microtubules are morphologically abnormal in diseased regions of brain from patients with late-onset Alzheimer's disease (LOAD). Here we tested the hypothesis that tubulin derived from gray matter of patients with multiple forms of dementia was functionally impaired. Following taxol/GTP stimulation of tubulin polymerization of gray matter extracts we observed reduced capacity of tubulin to polymerize in LOAD, but not individuals with mild cognitive impairment (MCI), compared to controls. Moreover, we observed similarly reduced taxol/GTP-stimulated tubulin polymerization from gray matter obtained from patients with AD caused by PSEN2 N141I mutation or frontotemporal dementia with parkinsonism linked to chromosome-17 caused (FTDP-17) by TAU V337M or P301L mutation. Our results show that modification of tubulin function may contribute to intermediate or late stages in the pathogenesis of sporadic and inherited AD as well as FTDP-17.

In the last ten years both analysts and neuroscientists have begun to challenge the analytic world to explore the analytic view of the mind in relation to knowledge emerging from the field of neuroscience. I find that 'in many ways it is Jung's understanding of the mind, the human condition, and the self, that is most compatible with the insights that are emerging from neuroscience today' (Wilkinson 2004, p. 84). In this paper I consider the insights that neuroscience has to offer us as we seek to work with those patients whose early experience has diminished their capacity to be 'in mind' and with it their capacity for reflective self-function, whose defences are dissociative, whose need has been to keep unbearable experience at bay, out of mind. I look first at dissociationist theory and its development, then focus on the insights to be gained from neuroscience with regard to early trauma and its effect on the encoding and recall of memory. Finally, I turn to the nature of cure and argue that hemispheric integration is the key to undoing dissociation and the prelude to individuation.
The subiculum is a pivotal but under-investigated structure positioned between the hippocampus proper and entorhinal and other cortices, as well as a range of subcortical structures. The subiculum has a range of electrophysiological and functional properties which are quite distinct from its input areas; given the widespread set of cortical and subcortical areas with which it interacts, it is able to influence activity in quite disparate brain regions. The rules governing plasticity of synaptic transmission in the hippocampal-subicular axis are poorly understood; this axis appears to share some properties in common with the hippocampus proper, but behaves quite differently in other respects. Equally, its functional properties are not well understood; it plays an important but ill-defined role in spatial navigation, mnemonic processing and control of the response to stress. Here, I review investigations of synaptic plasticity in the hippocampal-subicular pathway, recordings of subicular neurons in the freely moving behaving animal, the effects of behavioural and other stressors on subicular synaptic plasticity, and anatomical data on the dorso-ventral organization of the subiculum in relation to the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. I argue that there is a dorso-ventral segregation of function within the subiculum: the dorsal component appears principally concerned with the processing of information about space, movement and memory, whereas the ventral component appears to play a major regulatory role in the inhibition of the HPA axis.
Growth/differentiation factor-5 (GDF5) is a member of the transforming growth factor-beta superfamily which has potent effects on dopaminergic neurones in vitro and in vivo. GDF5 is under investigation as a potential therapeutic agent for Parkinson's disease (PD), which is caused by the progressive degeneration of dopaminergic neurones projecting from the substantia nigra (SN) to the striatum. In the rat ventral mesencephalon (VM; the developing SN), GDF5 expression peaks at embryonic day 14, the time at which dopaminergic neurones undergo terminal differentiation. Addition of GDF5 protein to cultures of embryonic rat VM increases the survival and improves the morphology of dopaminergic neurones in these cultures. GDF5 treatment also increases the number of cells which adopt a dopaminergic phenotype in cultures of VM progenitor cells. Intracerebral administration of GDF5 has potent neuroprotective and restorative effects on the nigrostriatal pathway in animal models of PD. Furthermore, addition of GDF5 protein to embryonic rat dopaminergic neuronal transplants improves their survival and function in a rat model of PD. Thus, GDF5 has potential applications to PD therapy as a dopaminergic neuroprotective agent and as a factor that may induce a dopaminergic neuronal fate in unrestricted progenitor cells.
Speakers may use laryngeal sensory feedback to adjust vocal fold tension and length before initiating voice. The mechanism for accurately initiating voice at an intended pitch is unknown, given the absence of laryngeal muscle spindles in animals and conflicting findings regarding their existence in humans. Previous reports of rapid changes in voice fundamental frequency following thyroid cartilage displacement suggest that changes in vocal fold length modulate laryngeal muscle contraction in humans. We tested the hypothesis that voice changes resulting from mechanical perturbation are due to rapid responses in the intrinsic laryngeal muscles. Hooked wire electrodes were used to record from the thyroarytenoid, cricothyroid, and sternothyroid muscles along with surface electrodes on the skin overlying the thyroid cartilage in 10 normal adults. Servomotor displacements produced consistent changes in the subjects' vocal fundamental frequency at 70-80 ms, demonstrating changes in vocal fold length and tension. No simultaneous electromyographic responses occurred in the thyroarytenoid or cricothyroid muscles in any subjects. Instead, short-latency responses at 25-40 ms following stimulus onset occurred in the sternothyroid muscles, simultaneous with responses in the surface recordings. The sternothyroid responses may modulate long-latency changes in voice fundamental frequency (approximately 150 ms). The absence of intrinsic laryngeal muscle responses is consistent with a lack of spindles in these muscles. Our results suggest that other sensory receptors, such as mucosal mechanoreceptors, provide feedback for voice control.
Laboratory studies have suggested that the preferred cadence of walking is approximately 120 steps/min, and the vertical acceleration of the head exhibits a dominant peak at this step frequency (2 Hz). These studies have been limited to short periods of walking along a predetermined path or on a treadmill, and whether such a highly tuned frequency of movement can be generalized to all forms of locomotion in a natural setting is unknown. The aim of this study was to determine whether humans exhibit a preferred cadence during extended periods of uninhibited locomotor activity and whether this step frequency is consistent with that observed in laboratory studies. Head linear acceleration was measured over a 10-h period in 20 subjects during the course of a day, which encompassed a broad range of locomotor (walking, running, cycling) and nonlocomotor (working at a desk, driving a car, riding a bus or subway) activities. Here we show a highly tuned resonant frequency of human locomotion at 2 Hz (SD 0.13) with no evidence of correlation with gender, age, height, weight, or body mass index. This frequency did not differ significantly from the preferred step frequency observed in the seminal laboratory study of Murray et al. (Murray MP, Drought AB, and Kory RC. J Bone Joint Surg 46A: 335-360, 1964). [1.95 Hz (SD 0.19)]. On the basis of the frequency characteristics of otolith-spinal reflexes, which drive lower body movement via the lateral vestibulospinal tract, and otolith-mediated collic and ocular reflexes that maintain gaze when walking, we speculate that this spontaneous tempo of locomotion represents some form of central &quot;resonant frequency&quot; of human movement.
Stimulation of the pedunculopontine nucleus (PPN) is known to induce changes in arousal and postural/locomotor states by activation of such descending targets as the caudal pons and the medioventral medulla (MED). Previously, PPN stimulation was reported to induce prolonged responses (PRs) in intracellularly recorded caudal pontine neurons in vitro. The present study used intracellular recordings in semihorizontal slices from rat brain stem (postnatal days 12-21) to determine responses in MED neurons following PPN stimulation. One-half (40/81) of MED neurons showed PRs after PPN stimulation. MED neurons with PRs had shorter duration action potential, longer duration afterhyperpolarization, and higher amplitude afterhyperpolarization than non-PR MED neurons. PR MED neurons were significantly larger (568 +/- 44 microm2) than non-PR MED neurons (387 +/- 32 microm2). The longest mean duration PRs and maximal firing rates during PRs were induced by PPN stimulation at 60 Hz compared with 10, 30, or 90 Hz. The muscarinic cholinergic agonist carbachol induced depolarization in all PR neurons tested, and the muscarinic cholinergic antagonist scopolamine reduced or blocked carbachol- and PPN stimulation-induced PRs in all MED neurons tested. These findings suggest that PPN stimulation-induced PRs may be due to activation of muscarinic receptor-sensitive channels, allowing MED neurons to respond to a transient, frequency-dependent depolarization with long-lasting stable states. PPN stimulation appears to induce PRs in large MED neurons using parameters known best to induce locomotion.
A case of cutaneous inoculation tuberculosis in a 25-year old health care professional is reported. The diagnosis was confirmed by histopathology and isolation of Mycobacterium tuberculosis by BACTEC 460TB radiometric method. Rapid healing of the ulcer was noted in response to surgical debridement and specific anti-tuberculous therapy.
Perfusion-weighted imaging (PWI) measures can predict tissue outcome in acute ischemic stroke. Accuracy might be improved if differential tissue susceptibility to ischemia is considered. We present a novel voxel-by-voxel analysis to characterize cerebral blood flow (CBF) separately in gray (GM) and white matter (WM). Ten patients were scanned with inversion-recovery spin-echo EPI (IRSEPI), diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI), PWI&lt;6 h from onset and fluid attenuated inversion-recovery (FLAIR) at 30 days. Image processing included coregistration to PWI, automatic segmentation of IRSEPI into GM, WM and CSF and semiautomatic segmentation of DWI/FLAIR to derive the acute and 30-day lesions. Five tissue compartments were defined: (1) 'Core' (abnormal acutely and at 30 days), (2) 'Growth' (or 'infarcted penumbra', abnormal only at 30 days), (3) 'Reversed' (abnormal acutely but normal at 30 days), (4) 'MTT-Delayed ' (tissue with delayed mean transit time but not part of the acute or 30-day lesion), and (5) 'Normal' brain. Cerebral blood flow in GM and WM of each compartment was obtained from quantitative maps. Gray matter and WM mean CBF in the growth region differed by 5.5 mL/100 g min (P=0.015). Mean CBF also differed significantly within normal and MTT-Delayed compartments. The difference in the reversed region approached statistical significance. In core, GM and WM CBF did not differ. The results suggest separate ischemic thresholds for GM and WM in stroke penumbra.

Cold hyperalgesia is a well-documented symptom of inflammatory and neuropathic pain; however, the underlying mechanisms of this enhanced sensitivity to cold are poorly understood. A subset of transient receptor potential (TRP) channels mediates thermosensation and is expressed in sensory tissues, such as nociceptors and skin. Here we report that the pharmacological blockade of TRPA1 in primary sensory neurons reversed cold hyperalgesia caused by inflammation and nerve injury. Inflammation and nerve injury increased TRPA1, but not TRPM8, expression in tyrosine kinase A-expressing dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons. Intrathecal administration of anti-nerve growth factor (anti-NGF), p38 MAPK inhibitor, or TRPA1 antisense oligodeoxynucleotide decreased the induction of TRPA1 and suppressed inflammation- and nerve injury-induced cold hyperalgesia. Conversely, intrathecal injection of NGF, but not glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor, increased TRPA1 in DRG neurons through the p38 MAPK pathway. Together, these results demonstrate that an NGF-induced TRPA1 increase in sensory neurons via p38 activation is necessary for cold hyperalgesia. Thus, blocking TRPA1 in sensory neurons might provide a fruitful strategy for treating cold hyperalgesia caused by inflammation and nerve damage.
The electrodiagnostic studies of 13 consecutive patients with multifocal sensory and motor neuropathy of unknown etiology were reviewed to determine whether they exhibit features of demyelination or axonal degeneration. The type and frequency of demyelinating features, fulfillment of electrodiagnostic criteria for chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP), and response to immunotherapy were noted. Of 13 patients, 11 had at least one electrodiagnostic feature of demyelination at presentation and 2 had none. Seventeen percent to 77% of the patients fulfilled at least one of the published electrodiagnostic CIDP criteria, depending on the criteria used, but the number of demyelinating features per patient was less than reported for unselected patients with CIDP. Patients with multifocal sensory and motor neuropathy had a similar percentage of nerves with partial conduction block or F-wave prolongation as reported for unselected CIDP, but a smaller percentage of nerves exhibiting prolonged distal compound muscle action potential duration, distal latency prolongation or slowed conduction velocities. All treated patients, including 2 who did not meet any CIDP criteria, had at least a moderate response to immunotherapy. The results indicate that a large majority of, but not all, patients with idiopathic multifocal sensory and motor neuropathies exhibit electrodiagnostic features of demyelination, although fewer than seen in classic CIDP.


The hypothalamus, a vital regulator of multiple physiologic functions, is the principal source of the neuropeptide orexin, which is thought to regulate the sleep-wake cycle. As hypothalamic damage may result from aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH) and be associated with a depressed conscious level, we sought to investigate whether orexin levels reflected the severity of the ictus and were of any prognostic value in SAH. CSF orexin levels from 15 patients with aneurysmal SAH were analysed for up to 14 days. The correlation between orexin and GCS, WFNS grade, Fisher grade, GOS at 6 months and hydrocephalus were ascertained. Orexin levels in 5 patients with normal pressure hydrocephalus were used as controls. Patients with GCS less than 8 on admission had undetectable orexin whilst those with a GCS of 8 or greater had measurable orexin (p &lt; 0.05). CSF orexin levels appear to correlate with conscious level and might be a valid indicator of hypothalamic injury. As some adverse sequelae of SAH are due to hypothalamic damage, pharmacological manipulation of orexinergic neuronal pathways could lead to exciting therapeutic options in the future.
Depression is a common problem in patients affected by Parkinson's Disease (PD). In many cases, treatment with antidepressants is necessary, and the choice of the most suitable drug is often controversial, as many factors need to be considered that may complicate the development of the disease, including potential side effects of antidepressant therapy. Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) and Tricyclic Antidepressants (TCAs) are the two major categories of antidepressants used. Tricyclics have been shown to be effective in most cases, but some side effects (orthostatic hypotension, sedation, cognitive and anticholinergic effects) may present problems. In contrast, SSRI appear to be better tolerated, but some reports indicate a potential worsening of the parkinsonism. Other recently introduced medications need further investigation. The main therapeutic strategies, as reported in the international literature according to efficacy and tolerability, interactions with antiparkinsonian or concomitant drugs and possible effects on worsening of PD, are presented.
An asymptomatic, homosexual, white man was found to have an abnormal chest x ray. A presumptive diagnosis of sarcoidosis was made, but pulmonary function tests and a transbronchial biopsy were normal. He then remained asymptomatic for 10 years until he developed a progressive spastic paraparesis. At this point, antibodies to human T cell lymphotropic virus type 1 (HTLV-1) were identified in the serum and cerebrospinal fluid, and the diagnosis of HTLV-1 associated myelopathy was made, the history suggesting sexual exposure to HTLV-1 many years previously. HTLV-1 is associated with a spectrum of immune related disorders, including a pulmonary sarcoid-like syndrome. Infection with this chronic proinflammatory retrovirus should be considered in the differential diagnosis of all immune disorders in at risk individuals.


Neurophysiological studies in nonhuman primates have demonstrated that the prefrontal cortex (PFC) plays a critical role in the acquisition of learned categories following training. What is presently unclear is whether this cortical area also plays a role in spontaneous recognition and discrimination of natural categories. Here, we explore this possibility by recording from neurons in the PFC while rhesus listen to species-specific vocalizations that vary in terms of their social function and acoustic morphology. We found that ventral prefrontal cortex (vPFC) activity, on average, did not differentiate between food calls that were associated with the same functional category, despite having different acoustic properties. In contrast, vPFC activity differentiated between food calls associated with different functional classes and specifically, information about the quality and motivational value of the food. These results suggest that the vPFC is involved in the categorization of socially meaningful signals, thereby both extending its previously conceived role in the acquisition of learned categories and showing the significance of using natural categorical distinctions in the study of neural mechanisms.
Neuropsychological studies indicate that, after brain damage, the ability to imitate meaningful or meaningless actions can be selectively impaired. However, the neural bases supporting the imitation of these two types of action are still poorly understood. Using PET, we investigated in 10 healthy individuals the neural mechanisms of imitating novel, meaningless actions and familiar, meaningful actions. Data were analyzed using SPM99. During imitation, a significant positive correlation (p &lt; .05, corrected) of regional cerebral blood flow with the amount of meaningful actions was observed in the left inferior temporal gyrus only. In contrast, a significant positive correlation (p &lt; .05, corrected) with the amount of meaningless movements was observed in the right parieto-occipital junction. The direct categorical comparison of imitating meaningful (100%) relative to meaningless (100%) actions showed differential increases in neural activity (p &lt; .001, uncorrected) in the left inferior temporal gyrus, the left parahippocampal gyrus, and the left angular gyrus. The reverse categorical comparison of imitating meaningless (100%) relative to meaningful (100%) actions revealed differential increases in neural activity (p &lt; .001, uncorrected) in the superior parietal cortex bilaterally, in the right parieto-occipital junction, in the right occipital-temporal junction (MT, V5), and in the left superior temporal gyrus. Increased neural activity common to imitation of meaningless and meaningful actions compared to action observation was observed in a network of areas known to be involved in imitation of actions including the primary sensorimotor cortex, the supplementary motor area, and the ventral premotor cortex. These results are compatible with the two-route model of action imitation which suggests that there are at least two mechanisms involved in imitation of actions: a direct mechanism transforming a novel action into a motor output, and a semantic mechanism, on the basis of stored memories, that allows reproductions of known actions. Our results indicate that, in addition to shared neural processes, the direct and the semantic mechanisms that underlie action imitation also draw upon differential neural mechanisms. The direct mechanism underlying imitation of meaningless actions differentially involves visuospatial transformation processes as evidenced by activation of areas belonging to the dorsal stream. In contrast, imitation of meaningful actions differentially involves semantic processing as evidenced by activation of areas belonging to the ventral stream.
Spatial constraints on multisensory integration of auditory (A) and visual (V) stimuli were investigated in humans using behavioral and electrophysiological measures. The aim was to find out whether cross-modal interactions between A and V stimuli depend on their spatial congruity, as has been found for multisensory neurons in animal studies (Stein &amp; Meredith, 1993). Randomized sequences of unimodal (A or V) and simultaneous bimodal (AV) stimuli were presented to right- or left-field locations while subjects made speeded responses to infrequent targets of greater intensity that occurred in either or both modalities. Behavioral responses to the bimodal stimuli were faster and more accurate than to the unimodal stimuli for both same-location and different-location AV pairings. The neural basis of this cross-modal facilitation was studied by comparing event-related potentials (ERPs) to the bimodal AV stimuli with the summed ERPs to the unimodal A and V stimuli. These comparisons revealed neural interactions localized to the ventral occipito-temporal cortex (at 190 msec) and to the superior temporal cortical areas (at 260 msec) for both same- and different-location AV pairings. In contrast, ERP interactions that differed according to spatial congruity included a phase and amplitude modulation of visual-evoked activity localized to the ventral occipito-temporal cortex at 100-400 msec and an amplitude modulation of activity localized to the superior temporal region at 260-280 msec. These results demonstrate overlapping but distinctive patterns of multisensory integration for spatially congruent and incongruent AV stimuli.
Planned and reflexive behaviors often occur in the presence of emotional stimuli and within the context of an individual's acute emotional state. Therefore, determining the manner in which emotion and attention interact is an important step toward understanding how we function in the real world. Participants in the current investigation viewed centrally displayed, task-irrelevant, face distractors (angry, neutral, happy) while performing a lateralized go/no-go continuous performance task. Lateralized go targets and no-go lures that did not spatially overlap with the faces were employed to differentially probe processing in the left (LH) and right (RH) cerebral hemispheres. There was a significant interaction between expression and hemisphere, with an overall pattern such that angry distractors were associated with relatively more RH inhibitory errors than neutral or happy distractors and happy distractors with relatively more LH inhibitory errors than angry or neutral distractors. Simple effects analyses confirmed that angry faces differentially interfered with RH relative to LH inhibition and with inhibition in the RH relative to happy faces. A significant three-way interaction further revealed that state anxiety moderated relations between emotional expression and hemisphere. Under conditions of low cognitive load, more intense anxiety was associated with relatively greater RH than LH impairment in the presence of both happy and threatening distractors. By contrast, under high load, only angry distractors produced greater RH than LH interference as a function of anxiety.
Insects have an enormous impact on global public health as disease vectors and as agricultural enablers as well as pests and olfaction is an important sensory input to their behavior. As such it is of great value to understand the interplay of the molecular components of the olfactory system which, in addition to fostering a better understanding of insect neurobiology, may ultimately aid in devising novel intervention strategies to reduce disease transmission or crop damage. Since the first discovery of odorant receptors in vertebrates over a decade ago, much of our view on how the insect olfactory system might work has been derived from observations made in vertebrates and other invertebrates, such as lobsters or nematodes. Together with the advantages of a wide range of genetic tools, the identification of the first insect odorant receptors in Drosophila melanogaster in 1999 paved the way for rapid progress in unraveling the question of how olfactory signal transduction and processing occurs in the fruitfly. This review intends to summarize much of this progress and to point out some areas where advances can be expected in the near future.

We report on a patient with recurrent major depressive episodes with psychotic features who was successfully treated with maintenance electroconvulsive treatment (M-ECT) over a long period without the need for concurrent treatment with an antidepressant or mood stabilizer. She started ECT in 1996 and has received M-ECT for more than 7 years. To date (2005), she has received 244 treatments. After 5 admissions in nearly 4 years, involving 29 months in hospital, she has not needed any further psychiatric admission for 7 1/2 years since the start of the M-ECT. Her depression has been in complete remission for nearly 6 years, with the exception of one mild-to-moderate nonpsychotic depressive episode lasting for 2 months. The patient exhibited slight cognitive deficits but had no subjective complaints before ECT, and her cognitive deficits did not worsen after the initial ECT. Thus M-ECT does not appear to cause cognitive deterioration. M-ECT is being continued on the patient's request.
We use a genetic algorithm to evolve neural models of path integration, with particular emphasis on reproducing the homing behaviour of Cataglyphis fortis ants. This is done within the context of a complete model system, including an explicit representation of the animal's movements within its environment. We show that it is possible to produce a neural network without imposing a priori any particular system for the internal representation of the animal's home vector. The best evolved network obtained is analysed in detail and is found to resemble the bicomponent model of Mittelstaedt. Because of the presence of leaky integration, the model can reproduce the systematic navigation errors found in desert ants. The model also naturally mimics the searching behaviour that ants perform once they have reached their estimate of the nest location. The results support possible roles for leaky integration and cosine-shaped compass response functions in path integration.
We have measured the sensitivity of rod photoreceptors isolated from overnight dark-adapted mice of age P12 (neonate) through P45 (adult) with suction-pipette recording. During this age period, the dark current increased roughly in direct proportion to the length of the rod outer segment. In the same period, the flash sensitivity of rods (reciprocal of the half-saturating flash intensity) increased by approximately 1.5-fold. This slight developmental change in sensitivity was not accentuated by dark adapting the animal for just 1 h or by increasing the ambient luminance by sixfold during the prior light exposure. The same small, age-dependent change in rod sensitivity was found with rat. After preincubation of the isolated retina with 9-cis-retinal, neonatal mouse rods showed the same sensitivity as adult rods, suggesting the presence of a small amount of free opsin being responsible for their lower sensitivity. The sensitivity of neonate rods could also be increased to the adult level by dark adapting the animal continuously for several days. By comparing the sensitivity of neonate rods in darkness to that of adult rods after light bleaches, we estimated that approximately 1% of rod opsin in neonatal mouse was devoid of chromophore even after overnight dark adaptation. Overall, we were unable to confirm a previous report that a 50-fold difference in rod sensitivity existed between neonatal and adult rats.
Following neurorehabilitation, many patients show limited benefit, generalization, or maintenance of gains over time. Some of the reasons that account for modest outcomes are discussed with particular reference to the differences between patients' needs and aspirations, the nature of patient-clinician interactions, and patients' rehabilitation readiness. The role of a more client-centered approach is reviewed, as well as the importance of facilitating patients' capacity to identify problems, develop goals, consider options, and make choices. It is proposed that effective outcomes depend on the clinicians' success in harnessing patients' intrinsic motivation to change.
We conducted a study on 367 patients (86% female, 14% male; mean age 37+/-15 years) suffering from migraine with and without aura and chronic tension-type headache to evaluate the incidence of weight gain, an undesirable side effect observed during prophylactic therapy in primary headaches. Patients treated with amitriptyline (20 and 40 mg), pizotifen (1 mg), propranolol (80-160 mg), atenolol (50-100 mg), verapamil (160-240 mg), valproate (600 mg) and gabapentin (900-1200 mg) were evaluated after a period of 3 and 6 months. In particular, 89 patients were assessed (78% female, 22% male) at 6 months, of whom 10 were in treatment with amitriptyline 20 mg, 19 with amitriptyline 40 mg, 7 with pizotifen (1 mg), 13 with propranolol (80-160 mg), 4 with verapamil (160 mg), 10 with valproate (600 mg), 15 with atenolol (50 mg) and 11 with gabapentin (900-1200 mg). The control group consisted of 97 patients with migraine (79% female, 21% male; mean age 35+/-16 years) without indication for prophylactic therapy. Weight variations &gt;or=1 kg were considered. After 6 months of therapy, the percentage of patients with weight gain was 86% with pizotifen (6/7; mean weight increase 4.4+/-2.5 kg), 60% with amitriptyline 20 mg (6/10; 3.1+/-1.6), 47% with amitriptyline 40 mg (9/19; 5.4+/-2.7), 25% with valproate 600 mg (2/8, 3.0+/-2.8 kg), 25% with verapamil (1/4, 2.5 kg), 20% with atenolol (3/15, 1.7+/-0.6 kg), 9% with gabapentin (1/11, 1.5 kg) and 8% with propranolol (1/13; 6 kg). We conclude that propranolol, gabapentin, atenolol, verapamil and valproate affect body weight in a modest percentage of patients at 6 months. A greater mean weight gain at 6 months was found in patients treated with pizotifen, amitriptyline, and, in one patient out of 13, with propranolol.
The majority of patients consulting a doctor for headache are generally suffering from a primary headache. Nevertheless, the possibility of it being symptomatic, and sometimes life threatening, must always be in the forefront of the doctor's mind. Medical history and clinical examination first, and instrumental examinations afterwards, are the keys to a correct diagnosis, and the first steps for correct treatment.
Clinical observations show that migraine attacks have a seasonal, menstrual and circadian timing, suggesting a role of chronobiological mechanisms and their alterations in the disease, but little experimental data exists about this issue. The aim of this study was to estimate sleep quality chronotypes and the possible circadian timing of attacks in migraneurs. One hundred patients suffering from migraine without aura according to the IHS criteria (2004), and 30 controls were enrolled. Morning and evening type subjects were more represented in migraine patients than in controls and showed a tendency towards worse sleep quality and higher disability. Forty-two percent of migraineurs presented more than 75% of their attacks at night. Morning and evening types rather than intermediate and differences between real and preferred times may represent stressors that can worsen the disease. A preferential timing for occurrence of migraine attacks during the night and early morning hours was documented.
The internal working model on attachment dimensions changes with significant emotional experiences. The purpose of this study was to evaluate if and how the internal working models correlate with primary headaches. Attachment dimensions of subjects suffering from primary headaches were studied. One hundred and fourteen subjects [68 with migraine, 23 with tension-type headache (according to ICHD-I criteria), 23 with chronic daily headache (according to Silberstein's criteria)], were studied and compared with a control group of 57 subjects (matched in sex, age and social level) not suffering from any primary headache. Attachment dimensions were investigated using the Adult Attachment Questionnaire (AAQ) and the Attachment Style Questionnaire (ASQ). Headache sufferers seem to be characterised by attachment styles of the &quot;insecure&quot; type. In particular they seem to feel extremely ill at ease if there is an expectation of reduction of interpersonal distance.
Recent investigations documented that the prevalence of right-to-left shunt (RLS) in patients with migraine with aura (MA) is significantly higher than in healthy controls and similar to prevalence of RLS in young patients with cryptogenic stroke (CS). Nevertheless, little data are available in the literature about RLS prevalence in the other forms of primary headache. The aim of this study was to investigate the occurrence of RLS in patients with cluster headache (CH). We enrolled 30 consecutive patients with CH diagnosis according to the IHS criteria and 40 controls. RLS was assessed with bilateral transcranial Doppler contrast (TCDc) monitoring of middle cerebral arteries. Eleven patients (37%) resulted positive to TCDc monitoring for evaluation of RLS. These data show that the presence of RLS in this group is more prevalent than in the general population and similar to that found in MA and in CS.
Up to a few years ago, cluster headache (CH) was not thought to be an inherited disorder. However, several recent studies have suggested that genetic factors play a role in the disease. Genetic epidemiological surveys have shown that first-degree relatives of CH patients are more likely to have CH than the general population. CH has been reported in some concordant monozygotic twin pairs. At present, the type and the number of genes involved in the disease are still unclear. No mutation in the CACNA1A and NOS genes was found in CH patients. Recently, we have reported a significant association between the HCRTR2 gene and the disease. The purpose of this review is to describe recent advances in the genetics of CH.
This study evaluates osmophobia (defined as an unpleasant perception, during a headache attack, of odours that are non-aversive or even pleasurable outside the attacks) in connection with the diagnosis of primary headaches. We recruited 775 patients from our Headache Centre (566 females, 209 males; age 38+/-12 years), of whom 477 were migraineurs without aura (MO), 92 with aura (MA), 135 had episodic tension-type headache (ETTH), 44 episodic cluster headache (ECH), 2 chronic paroxysmal hemicrania (CPH) and 25 other primary headaches (OPHs: 12 primary stabbing headaches, 2 primary cough headaches, 3 primary exertional headaches, 2 primary headaches associated with sexual activity, 3 hypnic headaches, 2 primary thunderclap headaches and 1 hemicrania continua). Among them, 43% with MO (205/477), 39% with MA (36/92), and 7% with CH (3/44) reported osmophobia during the attacks; none of the 135 ETTH and 25 OPH patients suffered this symptom. We conclude that osmophobia is a very specific marker to discriminate adequately between migraine (MO and MA) and ETTH; moreover, from this limited series it seems to be a good discriminant also for OPHs, and for CH patients not sharing neurovegetative symptoms with migraine. Therefore, osmophobia should be considered a good candidate as a new criterion for the diagnosis of migraine.
We present a computerised programme designed for use in the office of a general practitioner. The system provides an assisted diagnosis according to the ICHD-II criteria for the principal forms of primary headaches (migraine, tension-type headache, cluster headache) and highlights the red flags of a possible secondary headache. A relevant feature is that explanations for the selection of a particular diagnosis are given at the end of the process; furthermore, the characteristics of the patient's headache, which were previously inserted in the programme by the physician, are summarised, allowing critical evaluation of the suggested diagnosis. The software can also be used as a clinical file, in that it is possible to create for each patient a clinical chart in which to record the selected diagnosis, the recommended therapy and any eventual comments. Our programme aims for educational growth, promoting the learning of the basic ICHD-II criteria.
We examined the distribution of HLA-DRB1 alleles in a cohort of 255 Italian migraine patients and in a control group of 325 healthy subjects. The frequency of DRB1*12 allele was found to be significantly reduced (p=0.02) in patients with migraine while the DRB1*16 allele was significantly increased (p=0.04) in comparison with controls. When the patients were divided into disease subgroups (migraine with and without aura), HLA-DRB1**16 allele was significantly increased (p&lt;0.05) only in migraine without aura patients. We conclude that, in Italian patients, migraine is associated with different alleles of the HLA-DRB1 locus. Our data suggest the presence of a genetic susceptibility factor for migraine within the HLA region.
A prominent historian of Medicine, Henry Sigerist, quoted the Padua Medical School as &quot;the cradle of modern medicine&quot;. This opinion is currently accepted worldwide. A short outline on the contribution of the Padua Medical School to the development of medical knowledge in its &quot;golden age&quot; is given. In this context, the work of a prominent figure of the 17(th) century Padua University and the founder of Occupational Medicine, Bernardino Ramazzini, is considered, with focus on his interest in headache.
The history of the first ten years of neurophysiological science (1951-1960) at the Department of Clinical Neurophysiology in Freiburg i.Br. (Germany) is described by some of the participants. We describe the concepts of Richard Jung for the development of an experimental neurophysiology, the technical conditions which helped to realize these ideas, and the integration of the newly emerging German neurophysiological science into the international community, through the large number of foreign visitors. A short account is given of the young scientists working at the Freiburg laboratory during this period, their main lines of research, as well as the results of their studies.
The revolution in the foundations of physics at the beginning of the twentieth century suggested to several of its most prominent workers that biology was ripe for something similar. In consequence, a number of physicists moved into biology. They were highly influential in initiating a molecular biology in the 1950s. Two decades later it seemed to several of these migrants, and those they had influenced, that the major problems in molecular biology had been solved, and that it was time to move on to what seemed to them the final problem: the nervous system, consciousness, and the age-old mind-body problem. This paper reviews this &quot;double migration&quot; and shows how the hopes of the first generation of physicist-biologists were both realized and dashed. No new physical principles were discovered at work in the foundations of biology or neuroscience. On the other hand, the mind-set of those trained in physics proved immensely valuable in analyzing fundamental issues in both biology and neuroscience. It has been argued that the outcome of the molecular biology of the 1950s was a change in the concept of the gene from that of &quot;a mysterious entity into that of a real molecular object&quot; (Watson, 1965, p.6); the gates and channels which play such crucial roles in the functioning of nervous systems have been transformed in a similar way. Studies on highly simplified systems have also opened the prospect of finding the neural correlatives of numerous behaviors and neuropathologies. This increasing understanding at the molecular level is invaluable not only in devising rational therapies but also, by defining the material substrate of consciousness, in bringing the mind-body problem into sharper focus.
Aluminum, the most abundant neurotoxic metal in our biosphere, has been implicated in the etiology of several neurodegenerative disorders including Alzheimer's disease (AD). To further understand aluminum's influence on gene expression, we examined total messenger RNA levels in untransformed human neural cells exposed to 100 nanomolar aluminum sulfate using high density DNA microarrays that interrogate the expression of every human gene. Preliminary data indicate that of the most altered gene expression levels, 17/24 (70.8%) of aluminum-affected genes, and 7/8 (87.5%) of aluminum-induced genes exhibit expression patterns similar to those observed in AD. The seven genes found to be significantly up-regulated by aluminum encode pro-inflammatory or pro-apoptotic signaling elements, including NF-kappaB subunits, interleukin-1beta precursor, cytosolic phospholipase A2, cyclooxygenase-2, beta-amyloid precursor protein and DAXX, a regulatory protein known to induce apoptosis and repress transcription. The promoters of genes up-regulated by aluminum are enriched in binding sites for the stress-inducible transcription factors HIF-1 and NF-kappaB, suggesting a role for aluminum, HIF-1 and NF-kappaB in driving atypical, pro-inflammatory and pro-apoptotic gene expression. The effect of aluminum on specific stress-related gene expression patterns in human brain cells clearly warrant further investigation.
In the light of existing physical theories, it is shown that representation in terms of functional interactions and formalism (S-Propagators) should satisfy three physical and six biological constraints. Consequences are summarized for neurohormonal field, developmental phase, aging phase, functional hierarchy, Principle of Auto-Associative stability (PAAS), self-organization and neural selection, Darwinian evolution, and the intelligence of movement. Abstraction and complexity of the proposed theories are discussed relatively to their advantages for integrative neuroscience.
We investigated the effect of interleukin (IL)-2, a T cell growth factor capable of activating certain macrophage functions, on interferon (IFN)-gamma expression in resting mouse peritoneal macrophages (PM). IL-2 addition to PM from different mouse strains up-modulated IFN-gamma mRNA and protein secretion. It is notable that endogenous type I and II IFNs did not play any role in the IL-2-mediated effect, as comparable levels of secreted IFN-gamma were observed upon IL-2 stimulation of PM from deficient mice. In contrast, endogenous IFN-gamma was requested for the IL-12-induced IFN-gamma production. It is interesting that blocking of each component of the IL-2 receptor (IL-2R) by neutralizing antibodies almost completely abolished IL-2-induced IFN-gamma production, suggesting that all IL-2R chains contribute to the PM biological response to IL-2. The simultaneous treatment of PM with IL-2 and IL-12 resulted in a higher IFN-gamma secretion with respect to that obtained upon treatment with IL-2 or IL-12 alone. It is notable that IFN-gamma protein was expressed intracellularly in the majority of cells exhibiting a macrophage phenotype (i.e., F4/80+) and was secreted upon IL-2 stimulation. Overall, these findings demonstrate that IL-2 regulates at different levels IFN-gamma expression in macrophages, highlighting the crucial role of these cells and their regulated responsiveness to key cytokines in the cross-talk between innate and adaptive immunity.
An important question for mammalian nutrition is the relative efficiency of C18 versus C20 essential fatty acids (EFAs) for supporting the tissue composition of n-3 and n-6 pathway end products. One specific question is whether C22 EFAs are made available to tissues more effectively by dietary alpha-linolenic acid (18:3n-3) and linoleic acid (18:2n-6) or by dietary eicosapentaenoic acid (20:5n-3) and dihomo-gamma-linolenic acid (20:3n-6). To address this question in a direct manner, four stable isotope compounds were given simultaneously in a novel paradigm. A single oral dose of a mixture of 2H5-18:3n-3, 13C-U-20:5n-3, 13C-U-18:2n-6, and 2H5-20:3n-6 was administered to rats given a defined diet. There was a preferential in vivo conversion of arachidonic acid (20:4n-6) to docosatetraenoic acid (22:4n-6) and of 22:4n-6 to n-6 docosapentaenoic acid (22:5n-6) when the substrates originated from the C18 precursors. However, when the end products docosahexaenoic acid (22:6n-3) or 22:5n-6 were expressed as the total amount in the plasma compartment divided by the dosage, this parameter was 11-fold greater for 20:5n-3 than for 18:3n-3 and 14-fold greater for 20:3n-6 than for 18:2n-6. Thus, on a per dosage basis, the total amounts of n-3 and n-6 end products accreted in plasma were considerably greater for C20 EFA precursors relative to C18.
This study reports methods for the quantitative determination of stable isotope-labeled essential fatty acids (EFAs) as well as an experiment in which deuterium-labeled linoleic acid (18:2n-6) and alpha-linolenic acid (18:3n-3) were compared with those labeled with carbon-13 in rat plasma in vivo. Standard curves were constructed to compensate for concentration and plasma matrix effects. It was observed that endogenous pools of fatty acids had a greater suppressing effect on the measurements of 13C-U-labeled EFAs relative to those labeled with 2H5. Using these methods, the in vivo metabolism of orally administered deuterated-linolenate, 13C-U-labeled linolenate, deuterated-linoleate, and 13C-U-labeled linoleate was compared in adult rats (n = 11). There were no significant differences in the concentrations of the 2H versus 13C isotopomers of 18:2n-6, 18:3n-3, arachidonic acid (20:4n-6), and docosahexaenoic acid (22:6n-3) in rat plasma samples at 24 h after dosing. Thus, there appears to be little isotope effect for 2H5- versus 13C-U-labeled EFAs when the data are calculated using the conventional standard curves and corrected for endogenous fatty acid pool size and matrix effects.
Vitallium appliances and surrounding tissues were investigated to evaluate the release and accumulation of elements. Four microplates, sixteen screws and surrounding tissues were removed from three patients presenting inflammation 4 to 6 years after surgery and were submitted to SEM and X-ray microprobe analysis. Histology was performed on paraffin or PMMA sections of tissues.A continuous release of elements from metallic appliances into soft tissues was observed. Cobalt, chromium, and nickel were detected in soft and boney tissues in close proximity to the appliance. Aluminium, as a component of screw coatings, accumulated in soft tissues, and a remarkable amount of aluminium was detected in the dense lamella of lamellar bone. The results suggest that coatings containing aluminium should be avoided and the time these appliances are allowed to remain in patients should be shortened. Further studies on element release and the fate of aluminium in bone are warranted.
Epithelia in multicellular organisms constitute the frontier that separates the individual from the environment. Epithelia are sites of exchange as well as barriers, for the transit of ions and molecules from and into the organism. Therapeutic agents, in order to reach their target, frequently need to cross epithelial and endothelial sheets. Two routes are available for such purpose: the transcellular and the paracellular pathways. The former is employed by lipophilic drugs and by molecules selectively transported by channels, pumps and carriers present in the plasma membrane. Hydrophilic molecules cannot cross biological membranes, therefore their transepithelial transport could be significantly enhanced if they moved through the paracellular pathway. Transit through this route is regulated by tight junctions (TJs). The discovery in recent years of the molecular mechanisms of the TJ has allowed the design of different procedures to open the paracellular route in a reversible manner. These strategies could be used to enhance drug delivery across epithelial and endothelial barriers. The procedures employed include the use of peptides homologous to external loops of integral TJ proteins, silencing the expression of TJ proteins with antisense oligonucleotides and siRNAs as well as the use of toxins and proteins derived from microorganisms that target TJ proteins.
The cerebellum evolved in association with the electric sense and vestibular sense of the earliest vertebrates. Accurate information provided by these sensory systems would have been essential for precise control of orienting behavior in predation. A simple model shows that individual spikes in electrosensory primary afferent neurons can be interpreted as measurements of prey location. Using this result, I construct a computational neural model in which the spatial distribution of spikes in a secondary electrosensory map forms a Monte Carlo approximation to the Bayesian posterior distribution of prey locations given the sense data. The neural circuit that emerges naturally to perform this task resembles the cerebellar-like hindbrain electrosensory filtering circuitry of sharks and other electrosensory vertebrates. The optimal filtering mechanism can be extended to handle dynamical targets observed from a dynamical platform; that is, to construct an optimal dynamical state estimator using spiking neurons. This may provide a generic model of cerebellar computation. Vertebrate motion-sensing neurons have specific fractional-order dynamical characteristics that allow Bayesian state estimators to be implemented elegantly and efficiently, using simple operations with asynchronous pulses, i.e. spikes. The computational neural models described in this paper represent a novel kind of particle filter, using spikes as particles. The models are specific and make testable predictions about computational mechanisms in cerebellar circuitry, while providing a plausible explanation of cerebellar contributions to aspects of motor control, perception and cognition.
Cognitive tasks involving distraction are associated with an early age-related decline in performance. Involuntary shifts in attention to irrelevant stimulus features and subsequent reorientation were studied in young and middle-aged subjects focussing on behavioural and event-related potential (ERP) measures. Subjects were asked to discriminate between equiprobable short and long auditory stimuli. Irrelevant rare frequency deviations prolonged reaction times (RT's), while an age-related effect on RT's was not observed. In contrast, notably after short deviant tones the error rate was considerably increased in the middle-aged subjects. ERP measures after deviant stimuli elicited a sequence of mismatch negativity (MMN), P3a and reorienting negativity (RON). The latency and amplitude of the MMN did not differ between age groups indicating an unchanged deviance detection. However, the consecutive process of attention orientation (P3a) was delayed and the subsequent reorienting (RON) to the primary task was strongly attenuated in the middle-aged subjects. After short deviants the RON was virtually absent in the middle-aged subjects, which might account for the observed decline of accuracy.
The aim was to investigate the roles of transmembrane domain 2 and the adjacent region of the first intracellular loop in determining human noradrenaline transporter (hNET) function by pharmacological and substituted-cysteine accessibility method (SCAM) analyses. It was first necessary to establish a suitable background NET for SCAM. Alanine mutants of endogenous hNET cysteines, hC86A, hC131A and hC339A, were examined and showed no marked effects on expression or function. hNET and the mutants were also resistant to methanethiosulfonate (MTS), ethylammonium (MTSEA) and MTStrimethylammonium (MTSET). Hence, wild-type hNET is an appropriate background for production of cysteine mutants for SCAM. Pharmacological investigation showed that all mutants except hT99C and hL109C showed reduced cell-surface expression, while all except hM107C showed a reduction in functional activity. The mutations did not markedly affect the apparent affinities of substrates, but apparent affinities of cocaine were decreased 7-fold for hP97C and 10-fold for hF101C and increased 12-fold for hY98C. [3H]Nisoxetine binding affinities were decreased 13-fold for hP97C and 5-fold for hF101C. SCAM analysis revealed that only hL102C was sensitive to 1.25 mm MTSEA, and this sensitivity was protected by noradrenaline, nisoxetine and cocaine. The results suggest that this region of hNET is important for interactions with antidepressants and cocaine, but it is probably not involved in substrate translocation mechanisms.
Ionizing radiation induced acute cell death in the dentate gyrus subgranular zone (SGZ) and the subventricular zone (SVZ). Hypomyelination was also observed. The effects of mild hypothermia and hyperthermia for 4 h after irradiation (IR) were studied in postnatal day 9 rats. One hemisphere was irradiated with a single dose of 8 Gy and animals were randomized to normothermia (rectal temperature 36 degrees C for 4 h), hypothermia (32 degrees C for 4 h) or hyperthermia (39 degrees C for 4 h). Cellular injury, e.g. chromatin condensation and nitrotyrosine formation, appeared to proceed faster when the body temperature was higher. Caspase-3 activation was more pronounced in the hyperthermia group and nuclear translocation of p53 was less pronounced in the hypothermia group 6 h after IR. In the SVZ the loss of nestin-positive progenitors was more pronounced (48%) and the size was smaller (45%) in the hyperthermia group 7 days post-IR. Myelination was not different after hypo- or hyperthermia. This is the first report to demonstrate that hypothermia may be beneficial and that hyperthermia may aggravate the adverse side-effects after radiation therapy to the developing brain.
Paradoxically, glutamate receptor antagonists have neurotoxic and psychotogenic properties in addition to their neuroprotective potential during excessive glutamate release. In the present study the non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist MK801 was used to examine glial-neuronal interactions in NMDA receptor hypofunction. Rats were given a subanesthetic dose of MK801 together with [1-13C]glucose and [1,2-13C]acetate, and brains were removed 20 min later. Analyses of extracts from cingulate, retrosplenial plus middle frontal cortices (CRFC) and temporal lobe were performed using HPLC and 13C and 1H nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. Hypofunction of the NMDA receptor induced similar changes in both brain areas investigated; however, the changes were most pronounced in the temporal lobe. Generally, only labeling from [1-13C]glucose was affected by MK801. In CRFC and temporal lobe amounts of both labeled and unlabeled glutamine were increased, whereas those of aspartate were decreased. In the CRFC the decrease in labeling of aspartate was greater than the decrease in concentration, leading to decreased 13C enrichment. In temporal lobe, not in CRFC, increased concentrations of glutamate, GABA, succinate, glutathione and inositol were detected together with increased labeling of GABA and succinate from [1-13C]glucose. 13C Enrichment was decreased in glutamate and increased in succinate. The results point towards a disturbance in glutamate-glutamine cycling and thus interaction between neurons and glia, since labeling of glutamate and glutamine from glucose was affected differently.
Recent evidence indicates that testosterone is neuroprotective, however, the underlying mechanism(s) remains to be elucidated. In this study, we investigated the hypothesis that androgens induce mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling in neurons, which subsequently drives neuroprotection. We observed that testosterone and its non-aromatizable metabolite dihydrotestosterone (DHT) rapidly and transiently activate MAPK in cultured hippocampal neurons, as evidenced by phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK)-1 and ERK-2. Importantly, pharmacological suppression of MAPK/ERK signaling blocked androgen-mediated neuroprotection against beta-amyloid toxicity. Androgen activation of MAPK/ERK and neuroprotection also was observed in PC12 cells stably transfected with androgen receptor (AR), but in neither wild-type nor empty vector-transfected PC12 cells. Downstream of ERK phosphorylation, we observed that DHT sequentially increases p90 kDa ribosomal S6 kinase (Rsk) phosphorylation and phosphorylation-dependent inactivation of Bcl-2-associated death protein (Bad). Prevention of androgen-induced phosphorylation of Rsk and Bad blocked androgen neuroprotection. These findings demonstrate AR-dependent androgen activation of MAPK/ERK signaling in neurons, and specifically identify a neuroprotective pathway involving downstream activation of Rsk and inactivation of Bad. Elucidation of androgen-mediated neural signaling cascades will provide important insights into the mechanisms of androgen action in brain, and may present a framework for therapeutic intervention of age-related neurodegenerative disorders.
Ethanol consumption during development affects the maturation of hippocampal circuits by mechanisms that are not fully understood. Ethanol acts as a depressant in the mature CNS and it has been assumed that this also applies to immature neurons. We investigated whether ethanol targets the neuronal network activity that is involved in the refinement of developing hippocampal synapses. This activity appears during the growth spurt period in the form of giant depolarizing potentials (GDPs). GDPs are generated by the excitatory actions of GABA and glutamate via a positive feedback circuit involving pyramidal neurons and interneurons. We found that ethanol potently increases GDP frequency in the CA3 hippocampal region of slices from neonatal rats. It also increased the frequency of GDP-driven Ca2+ transients in pyramidal neurons and increased the frequency of GABA(A) receptor-mediated spontaneous postsynaptic currents in CA3 pyramidal cells and interneurons. The ethanol-induced potentiation of GABAergic activity is probably the result of increased quantal GABA release at interneuronal synapses but not enhanced neuronal excitability. These findings demonstrate that ethanol is a potent stimulant of developing neuronal circuits, which might contribute to the abnormal hippocampal development associated with fetal alcohol syndrome and alcohol-related neurodevelopmental disorders.
Phosphorylation of voltage-gated K+ channels (Kv) is involved in regulation of neuronal excitability, synaptic plasticity and neuronal survival. Among Kv channels expressed in the CNS, Kv1.4 is located in the soma, dendrite and axon terminus of neurones in most regions of the brain. Here, we show that Ser229 found within the highly conserved T1 domain of Kv1.4 in cultured rat cortical neurones is phosphorylated by protein kinase A (PKA), as demonstrated by in vitro protein kinase assay and Western blotting with a polyclonal antibody specific against phosphorylated Ser229. Glutamate, high concentrations of K+ or K+ channel blockers known to increase neurotransmission all stimulated the phosphorylation of Kv1.4 at Ser229 via N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA), but not alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-proprionic acid (AMPA) receptor, whereas tetradotoxin (TTX), known to block neuronal transmission, and depletion of extracellular Ca2+ inhibited phosphorylation induced by tetraethylammonium (TEA), a non-selective K+ channel blocker. Mutation of Ser229 to Ala229 enhanced the current density. Taken together, elevation of the neuronal transmission stimulates the phosphorylation of Kv1.4 at Ser229 via the Ca2+ influx through NMDA receptor. Thus, it is possible that neuronal transmission regulates neuronal excitability partially through the phosphorylation of Kv1.4S229.
Mammalian cells often receive multiple extracellular stimuli under physiological conditions, and the various signaling inputs have to be integrated for the processing of complex biological responses. G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) are critical players in converting extracellular stimuli into intracellular signals. In this report, we examined the integration of different GPCR signals by mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) using the SK-N-MC human brain neuroepithelioma cells as a neuronal model. Stimulation of the Gi-coupled neuropeptide Y1 and Gq-coupled muscarinic M1 acetylcholine receptors, but not the Gs-coupled dopamine D1 receptor, led to the activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK). All three receptors were also capable of stimulating c-Jun NH2-terminal kinases (JNK) and p38 MAPK. The Gi-mediated ERK activation was completely suppressed upon inhibition of Src tyrosine kinases by PP1, while the Gq-induced response was suppressed by both PP1 and the Ca2+ chelator, BAPTA-AM. In contrast, activations of JNK and p38 by Gs-, Gi-, and Gq-coupled receptors were sensitive to PP1 and BAPTA-AM pretreatments. Simultaneous stimulation of Gi- and Gq-coupled receptors resulted in the synergistic activation of ERK, but not JNK or p38 MAPK. The Gi/Gq-induced synergistic ERK activation was PTX-sensitive, and appeared to be a co-operative effect between Ca2+ and Src family tyrosine kinases. Enhanced ERK activation was associated with an increase in CREB phosphorylation, while the JNK and p38-responsive transcription factor ATF-2 was weakly enhanced upon Gi/Gq-induction. This report provides evidence that G protein signals can be integrated at the level of MAPK, resulting in differential effects on ERK, JNK and p38 MAPK in SK-N-MC cells.
The glial cell line-derived (GDNF) family of trophic factors, GDNF, neurturin, persephin and artemin, are known to support the survival and regulate differentiation of many neuronal populations, including peripheral autonomic, enteric and sensory neurons. Members of this family of related ligands bind to specific GDNF family receptor (GFR) proteins, which complex and signal through the Ret receptor tyrosine kinase. We showed previously that GDNF protein was detectable in olfactory sensory neurons (OSNs) in the olfactory neuroepithelium (ON). In this immunohistochemical study, we localized GDNF, neurturin, GFRalpha1, GFRalpha2 and Ret in the adult rat ON and olfactory bulb. We found that GDNF and Ret were widely expressed by immature and mature OSNs, while neurturin was selectively expressed in a subpopulation of OSNs zonally restricted in the ON. The GFRs had differential expression, with mature OSNs and their axons preferentially expressing GFRalpha1, whereas progenitors and immature neurons more avidly expressed GFRalpha2. In the bulb, GDNF was highly expressed by the mitral and tufted cells, and by periglomerular cells, and its distribution generally resembled that of Ret, with the exception that Ret was far more predominant on fibers than cell bodies. Neurturin, in contrast, was present at lower levels and was more restricted in its expression to the axonal compartment. GFRalpha2 appeared to be the dominant accessory protein in the bulb. These data are supportive of two members of this neurotrophic family, GDNF and neurturin, playing different physiological roles in the olfactory neuronal system.
Androgens regulate the expression of male reproductive behaviour in diverse vertebrate species, often acting on androgen receptors (AR) to induce structural or functional changes in the nervous system and periphery. Male green anoles possess two sexually dimorphic neuromuscular systems, one controlling throat fan (dewlap) extension, which occurs during courtship, and the other mediating copulatory organ function. Although androgens are required for behavioural activation in both systems, testosterone has differential effects on the neuromuscular morphology. It increases the size of copulatory muscle fibres during the breeding season, but significant effects on dewlap muscle fibre size and motoneurone soma size in either system have not been detected. Corresponding to the lack of testosterone-induced morphological effects in the courtship system, relatively low levels of AR are expressed in the associated motoneurones. The present experiment had two goals, aiming to determine whether: (i) the other courtship and copulatory neuromuscular tissues express AR and (ii) testosterone and/or seasonal environmental changes regulate AR expression. The percentage of AR+ nuclei was evaluated in both the breeding and nonbreeding seasons in gonadally intact adult males (Experiment 1) and in castrated males treated with either testosterone or vehicle (Experiment 2). AR was extensively expressed in the dewlap and copulatory muscles, and in a high percentage of the copulatory motoneurones, but immunoreactivity did not vary across season. Testosterone increased the percentage of AR+ nuclei in the copulatory muscles of both breeding and nonbreeding males but not in the dewlap muscle or copulatory motoneurones. Finally, the target structures for both systems (cartilages and hemipenes) expressed AR in all animals. Therefore, the effects of testosterone on AR immunoreactivity suggest that up-regulation of the receptors may be important for morphological change. However, because all structures investigated in the present experiment expressed AR, the data also indicate that the receptors are involved with other functions.
Since the discovery of the cannabinoid receptors and their endogenous ligands, significant advances have been made in studying the physiological function of the endocannabinoid system. The presence of cannabinoid receptors on cells of the immune system and anecdotal and historical evidence suggesting that cannabis use has potent immuno-modulatory effects, has led to research directed at understanding the function and role of these receptors within the context of immunological cellular function. Studies from chronic cannabis smokers have provided much of the evidence for immunomodulatory effects of cannabis in humans, and animal and in vitro studies of immune cells such as T cells and macrophages have also provided important evidence. Cannabinoids can modulate both the function and secretion of cytokines from immune cells. Therefore, cannabinoids may be considered for treatment of inflammatory disease. This review article will highlight recent research on cannabinoids and how they interact with the immune system and also their potential use as therapeutic agents for a number of inflammatory disorders.
Many multiple sclerosis (MS) patients treated with IFNbeta develop anti-IFNbeta antibodies, which can interfere with the bioactivity of the injected cytokine, i.e., antibody-mediated decreased bioactivity (ADB). The precise levels of anti-IFNbeta antibodies inducing decreased bioactivity is unknown. We repeatedly used a bioactivity measure, gene expression of MxA or GEM, and correlated bioactivity with measures of binding and neutralizing antibodies. The binding antibody assay was a capture ELISA, and the neutralizing antibody (NAb) assay was a cytopathic effect (CPE) assay. 27% (17/64) of patients repeatedly sampled developed critical ADB. Bioactivity as determined by GEM correlated negatively with NAb titer, and bioactivity that had been lost with the development of NAbs returned if NAb levels diminished. These data reveal that the GEM assay is a useful adjunct in the management of MS patients treated with IFNbeta, and that lost bioactivity returns when anti-IFNbeta antibody levels diminish.
Pro-inflammatory cytokines, e.g. interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta), interleukin-6 (IL-6), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNFalpha) as well as neurotoxic molecules such as nitric oxide (NO), that are produced and released by activated glial cells, play an important role in inflammation and oxidative stress occurring during Multiple Sclerosis (MS). Reduction of these processes could therefore be of therapeutic interest. Dimethylfumarate (DMF) and sulforaphane (SP) are well known for their detoxicating properties. Furthermore, they have anti-inflammatory effects as shown clinically by the treatment of inflammatory skin diseases. However, their detoxication and anti-inflammatory action on brain-derived cells is unknown. In the present study we have studied, within the same concentration range, the anti-inflammatory and detoxicating effects of DMF and SP on the production and release of mediators of inflammation and detoxication from lipopolysaccharide (LPS) activated primary co-cultures of rat microglial and astroglial cells. DMF and SP attenuated the LPS-induced production and release of TNFalpha, IL-1beta, IL-6 and NO. In addition, DMF and SP increase both mRNA level and activity of NAD(P)H:quinone reductase (NQO-1), a detoxication enzyme, as well as the cellular glutathione content. We conclude that DMF or SP simultaneously can (1) reduce mediators of inflammation and (2) enhance detoxication enzymes in LPS stimulated co-cultures of astroglial and microglial cells. This double-sided effect could potentially be of therapeutic interest.







